AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. COLLINS/A. Kerber   
6-0, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Could you just talk through the match from your side?  What weren't you able to kind of get yourself going today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think there is not too much to say.  I mean, it was completely not my day.  I was not playing the tennis that I can play.   
She played really well.  I think she played one of her best matches, to be honest.  She hit, yeah, every ball in the court.  She moves good.   
Yeah, for me, was one -- not my day, not my good tennis, but credit to her, she played a good match.   
 Q.  You left the court after the first set?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah.   
 Q.  Which was short.  Just wondering what made you want to leave?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I just left the court just to take a toilet break.   
 Q.  After 20 minutes?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah.   
 Q.  In the third point of the second set, she screamed pretty loudly, got vocal in that first game.  I was wondering...  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I was not watching on her side.   
 Q.  Did you get a sense when you woke up this morning or even on the practice court warming up that things weren't clicking?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I mean, I was warming up like always.  I did my things.  I was feeling good, but, you know, you have sometimes days like this.   
I mean, the season is long, and of course it's, yeah, a little bit disappointed that it was here now in this round.   
You know, I think, like I said, she played good match.  She, yeah, hit every ball on the line, in the court.  I was just trying, I couldn't find my rhythm.  The whole match I was trying everything.  I was trying to finding it.  I was trying to fighting even in the second set and tried my best.   
But, yeah, I couldn't find my rhythm and I was not able to play actually this tennis that I played the last days.   
 Q.  How much did you know about Collins' game coming into this match and what had been your strategy?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I played against her in Eastbourne last year, so I know what to expect.   
You know, I think, yeah, she played good.  I know she's playing like this, but also, like, I think that I was not able to playing my, yeah, my tennis and my solid game.  I was not moving good.  My serve was not that good that it was the last days.   
There are few things that I couldn't play like I wish, and, yeah, it's -- yeah.   
 Q.  What, if anything, did she do differently today from that match in Eastbourne?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think you cannot compare these two matches, because in Eastbourne we played on grass and now we played on hard court.   
I think that she played, I can say it again, that she played really one of her best matches, to be honest, every match that I saw from her.  I think she played today, yeah, good today.  I think everything was good and she served good, she returns my serves good.  So, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT