AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/P. Hercog
6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you kind of rate that performance?  What were you most pleased with out there?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, the first rounds are always tricky.  I think that I was trying to finding my rhythm, especially in the first few games.  I mean, I think I was returning good.  That was, yeah, a good point from this match.
In the second set, I was feeling a little bit better and better, hitting the balls also with a little bit much more power than in the first set.
Overall, yeah, it was a good match for me.
Q. I presume you were training in Germany in the pre-season, then you were in Hopman Cup, that's an indoor event.  In Sydney, night matches.  Today is really hot, is my point.  Did you feel like your body responded well to that?  Do you feel you've been able to get used to the temperatures you might have to expect here?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, I was feeling good.  I mean, of course it's hot out there.  But I was expecting this here in Melbourne, like every single year.
I think it was good that I played in Perth completely different conditions than the night matches in Sydney.  Now I played here during the day.  So now I think I'm ready for doesn't matter what time I will play.
No, but I was feeling good.  So even it was really hot, my body was feeling quite good.  I'm happy that I played, like, a little bit more than one hour today.
Q. Have you had a look to your next match?  You have another left-hander you're playing against.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes.  I never played against her, so it will be the first match.  It's like the first rounds here.  I mean, I will try my best.  I will, yeah, see what I have to expect against her.
But I will more looking on my tennis and trying to playing another good match here.
Q. How do you describe your ball striking at the moment?  Your opponent made quite a few unforced errors.  You might not have gotten the length of rallies you like early in the rounds.  How are you striking the ball?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I'm feeling good.  I played a lot of matches already here in Australia.  I'm feeling the balls good.  I have my rhythm.  I think that I getting used to also the new balls.
No, it's a good feeling still.
Q. With different balls this year, I'm curious what your sense is about the court speed.  Different players have said it's different on different courts.  What have you experienced in practice and on the match court today?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It is a little bit different.  To be honest, I just practiced on Court 18 and on the Rod Laver.  That's the only courts I was practicing when I came from Sydney.
Of course, the balls are a little bit different to the balls like last year.  But for me, I really don't care too much about balls, courts, weather.  It's just, you know, I need the ball, the racquet, just try to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT