SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 8, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/C. Giorgi
7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You didn't seem to show any signs of jet lag and fatigue.  How did you feel out there today?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, I was feeling good.  It's always tricky to play against her, because she's hitting the balls really hard, especially in the first set, so I was trying to bring a lot of balls back.  And in the second set I was trying a little bit to finding my rhythm and also playing more aggressive.
But, yeah, I think the jet lag is not there anymore (smiling).  Yeah, I'm feeling good so far.
Q. What was the difference in that second set?  You seemed to get on a bit of a roll there.  You won four or five games in a row.  What worked for you?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I was serving a little bit better, and I was playing, you know, a little bit more aggressive.  Because in the first set she was playing and she had the game in her hands, so she was, yeah, hitting the balls really hard and I was moving everywhere.  So in the second set I was trying to step in a little bit and, yeah, playing more aggressive.
Q. There was a moment in the second set when there was a bit of a rain delay.  Were you at all afraid you would lose a bit of momentum then?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Not really.  I mean, I was more afraid to playing in the rain and maybe, you know, yeah, something happen or something like this.  So it was good that we stopped really early, that it was safe for both of us.
Q. How are you feeling now?  I know it's really early, but do you feel like you have continued your momentum from last year?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it's really early.  I mean, for me it's here the first tournament, you know.  Of course I played Perth last week, but now you have the tournament feeling again, and it is I think quite early to say how I will start in the year.
I mean, for me right now it was a good start, and I'm looking forward to playing here a few more matches and hopefully, yeah, getting a lot of confidence before I go to Melbourne.  Yeah, then we will see.
Q. What about your new coach?  What stuff does he want to do with your game?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It's just, you know, something like not huge change in my technique on my game.  It's like more to continue improving my game, working hard, doing a lot of fitness stuff, but also like hitting a lot of balls and feeling my rhythm.
It's just like, you know, the details.  I think that's the one where we are focusing on, like, just few things, small things.
Q. There has been a bit of discussion about the new Dunlop balls.  Have you noticed any difference hitting them?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You feel the difference a little bit, but I think they are quite okay.  I mean, to be honest, I don't care about the balls, about the stringing too much.  So I have a ball, I have a racquet, and that's good for me (smiling).






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT