AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 12, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How differently do you feel right now playing on the court compared to the last four months of last season?  What do you think is the difference?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I cannot compare this because, you know, after a long season, you are just trying to survive at the end, trying to pushing yourself, playing still good tennis.   
But now we have new season coming, and the motivation is really high again.  You know, for me it's important to going on court and trying to making the transit in my practice sessions to the match ones.  I was really, yeah, working hard in the pre-season, and now I'm really looking forward to having the competition and playing matches again.   
 Q.  Looking back at the past month, will you consider playing mixed doubles in one of the slams or the Olympics?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, the Olympics, I hope I will play mixed because it's really nice, it's exciting.  I really enjoyed it.   
I don't know for the Grand Slams.  Let's see.  But for right now, I don't have plans to playing mixed at the Grand Slams and here.  Not yet.   
 Q.  How long did you spend in total having to wait for Sascha?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: What?   
 Q.  From TV it looked like you were always waiting for Sascha.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: A lot (smiling).  I mean, I was always waiting for him.  But he's getting better.  Let's give him little bit time, then hopefully he will be on time.   
 Q.  As you come back here, former champion, obviously a great season last year, what type of expectation do you come into this tournament with?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I'm not putting too much expectation on me, like, with the results and everything like that.  I'm here to, like always, at the Grand Slams, finding my rhythm, playing the first round, trying to do my best, then looking day by day.   
I know that I playing good right now, that I had good matches, that I have the confidence.  But still it's not easy to being here.  The tournament starts from zero.  I have good memories.  Yeah, I have a good feeling.  You never know what's happen.   
I mean, also the conditions are never so easy here in Melbourne especially.  But, yeah, I'm looking forward.  You know, this is the only expectation I have, to give my best in every single match.   
 Q.  How are things with Rainer during the pre-season?  What does he bring to your team?  Was the focus more tactical, technical things?  What was the pre-season like with him?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Of course, it was new.  I mean, I think he is the first coach that also played.  He knows how it is to being under pressure, to having the emotions on court.   
He understands my thinking.  You know, on court he is also, like, a hard worker.  Yeah, he loves the sport like me.  We are both really trying to do our best.  Yeah, we have the passion.  To me, it's great to have Rainer on my team.  I have a great team right now.  I'm looking forward to the season right now.  It's just the beginning.  Let's see what happen in the next few months.   
 Q.  The Vogue cover shoot, what was that like?  How did you feel about that?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I was really excited to do this because, yeah, I had a great day in Italy.  You know, the pictures, they show little bit the different side.  I really liked the pictures.  To have such a great shooting with such amazing people around, I really enjoyed it.   
Of course, to being on the cover, on the Vogue, it's an honor.  I really like it.   
 Q.  Was it uncomfortable?  It's a different type of photo shoot.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It is.  But I was enjoying it, let's say it.   
 Q.  Which of the dresses did you like most?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think they are completely different.  I had the dress, I had everything.  For me, it was important to show me in different styles.  Also with the hair, with everything.  This was actually the idea of this.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT