BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 26, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. STEPHENS/A. Kerber   
6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What is it about Sloane's game that you find to be so challenging?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I think it's tough to play against her.  I think that always when I play against her she's playing her best tennis.   
Also, today I think she played great.  Especially when we had long games she always, yeah, put the balls, yeah, down the lines, and I had no chance to get there.   
I was trying my best.  I was trying until the end to do and to coming back, but she really played good from the first until the last point.   
 Q.  It looked like you were making a really good charge in the early part of the second set after getting that break back.  Do you think that maybe fatigue or just the body just kind of wasn't letting you do what you wanted to do out there on court?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I think it's more I was trying it, and sometimes we are trying it, this is what I was always telling me to go for it, taking my chances, and today I make a little bit more mistakes than usual, especially also in the first set.  And, you know, if you play against the best players here, you have to take your first chances.   
She was playing good at these defense moments.  For me, I mean, I was trying it and I just can say that I tried my best today, even I lost, but yeah, I was trying to putting everything I had left in this match.   
 Q.  I know you said after Wimbledon that it was a priority for you to not experience what you experienced before after the slams, so how do you assess the period post-Wimbledon until now?  Are you pleased with what you have done?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think, you know, I know now what is good for me, what is not so good.  The process, it's always a process even you win your third Grand Slam.  It's just to keep working, staying positive.   
And, yeah, tennis is a sport every week you have chances.  You know, you just try to improving yourself.  I think that the process also after Wimbledon was not bad.   
 Q.  Do you wish that the court plays a bit faster?  Because maybe for you today against Sloane on a slow court it's much, much more difficult?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Maybe yes.  I mean, she's moving so good.  She's taking every single ball.  Maybe if the court would be a little bit faster I had maybe the result on my side today.   
But, you know, it's not like that.  You're always trying to do the best what you have and it's for both the same.  Yeah, I mean, next time I play against her, I will try to take my next chance.   
 Q.  In your search for a coach moving forward, what are the most important things you are looking for?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I'm like just half an hour after my match.  So now I know that I have vacation.  This is, for me, the most important thing.  The season is done.  I played amazing season, especially after last year.   
I'm just proud about the whole year, about the 10 months, and, you know, I will sit down in the next few days with my team and then we will discuss this thing.   
 Q.  What does vacation time for Angie look like?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Putting the racquet just in a corner and just spending a little bit of time with my friends and, you know, just not thinking about to being on time, being on practice.  Just relaxing.  Just, yeah, not thinking too much about competition, about opponents, about tennis.   
 Q.  How long does it take you before you finally get twitchy inside?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it takes always actually a little bit.  It's not that I know that I have a vacation and I will wake up tomorrow and I feel fresh.  I think it just take few days, for sure, even like maybe one, two weeks to really come down.   
 Q.  A bunch of the players who are here in Singapore -- you, Petra, Kiki, I think Osaka -- all of you were I think outside the top 20 at the start of the season, and now you're here in Singapore.  What do you think that says about you guys, about the tour, whatever, that that sort of reversal can happen so quickly in 12 months?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I mean, it shows how close everything is together.  But I can just talk about me.  Coming back after last year, after also 2016/2017 to get through all the up-and-downs and playing this season to, yeah, being in the top three and winning my third Grand Slam, so all what's happened this year I'm really proud.   
I'm proud about myself, about my team that I really fight back, that I came back after, yeah, last year.  You know, I will just try to taking all the positives, all which I learned this year as well for the next season, getting ready as good as I can for Australia next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT