BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 23, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
K. BERTENS/A. Kerber   
1-6, 6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  The first set you seemed to be playing incredibly well.  What do you think happened in the second set?  Was it an improvement in her level or do you feel like you backed off a little bit?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think so.  I start really well.  Then she start playing better and better.  I think that I dropped a little bit with my intensity in my game.  Yeah, in the third set I had so many chances and I couldn't take it.   
Yeah, I think I know that I could play better in important moments, but, yeah, it was not the case today.   
 Q.  In that second set when she did raise her level, what did she do that you felt started to kind of change things her way specifically?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I think that, you know, I was trying to pushing myself and going for it and playing like in the first set, but like I said, I think she starts to making less mistakes, and she moves better starting in the second set.   
But, you know, I know that, yeah, I have to improve my level, for sure, for the next games.  But overall, yeah, I mean, it was of course not the way I would like to start here.   
 Q.  You have been here before.  You know how the format works.  What's your process now?  Is it just to look at this -- is it Andre Wiesler with you?  Will you sort of discuss any tactics, or is it just a case of go out there and give it another go?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I know that I have to win my next matches, but I have still chances so it's not that I'm out of the tournament.   
But of course I know that I have to, yeah, play like I start the match, like in the first set, and trying to playing my two sets like this.   
But, yeah, I know that it is there.  I just have to, yeah, play more consistent.   
 Q.  Obviously Kiki was playing right up until playing here.  Do you feel that it's going to take you time to warm up a little bit?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: For me or for her?   
 Q.  You.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, of course I know how it is to play here.  But she had nothing to lose, so she came here, she played her best.  You know, I think it was not about this, why I play like that.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about facing Naomi Osaka?  What do you make of her New York run, first of all, and then just as an opponent, you have played before, what do you expect?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I know what to expect.  I know it will be not an easy one.  I mean, she's serving good.  She's hitting very well.   
So I have to get ready for that, and, you know, I think that about that I will think about tomorrow.   
 Q.  Your performances in Singapore haven't been as good as they could be.  What do you think that you're lacking here?  You seem to have some bad results going against you.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, I was here two years ago in the final, so I don't know if it's so bad.  So I don't think it is so bad.  Of course I know that, yeah, it could be better, but it's not too bad.  I know that I'm here to play my best tennis and to win a lot of matches, but now I lost the first one, but I have still chances and I have still two more to go.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT