CHINA OPEN
September 28, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What is your focus in the final two weeks of the season?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, my focus is just trying to playing the best tennis I can play in the moment after a long season.  Just trying to, yeah, playing day by day.  Even if it's my practice or a match, just trying to be focusing on every single day, trying to play as good as I can in the last few weeks of the season.
Q. We're pushing towards the end of the season.  Apart from the tournament here, it's a big one, so much at stake, the ranking points, prize money, but is there anything special in this part of the world culture-wise weighing your decision that you want to come over and play every year?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: First it is, of course, a big tournament.  But, yeah, the other side, it's a little bit on the other side of the world from my country.  It's a completely, yeah, new tradition here.  It's always nice to learn something new from the world, but also to meeting some new people, especially Chinese people.  I have a lot of fans here, which is always nice to see them.
Playing here, knowing also that's the last few tournaments of the season, that helps also trying to give everything which is left in your body and your mind to doing good, to playing your best tennis.
It's always great to coming back to China, especially to Beijing where you can also see a lot of things, different things, besides the tennis.
Q. Looking back on a positive year, what are you most proud of that you've done?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I'm really proud that I came strong back after last year, that I improved my tennis.  I won of course my third Grand Slam in Wimbledon, one of the special ones this year.  So, yeah, I'm proud about a lot of things.  About my team, as well, about everything what was going on this year which I had the chance also to learn from a lot of experience.  Yeah, I'm happy that I'm back there where actually I was like few years ago.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT