U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. CIBULKOVA/A. Kerber   
3-6, 6-3, 6-3   
An interview with:   
ANGELIQUE KERBER   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was a tough draw for you this whole tournament here.  Wondering how you feel you played and what was the difference today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, it was a really tough battle against Domi again.  I had my chances, but I couldn't take it, especially in the third set.  Also, I mean, I was not able actually to play my best tennis in the important moment.   
She was going for it, and she hit the balls really good and played the winners when she has to.  I think that was the difference about the match today.   
 Q.  In terms of the three matches that you played here, and even just the ones that you played over the summer, what is it that you struggled with the most in terms of transitioning maybe from the grass to hard courts, or is it still a little bit of the grass hangover in terms of the technical side of the tennis?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, you know, I don't know.  Yeah, you have sometimes days where you are trying everything, but it's not really working as you wish.  I mean, I was trying everything until the last point.  I was trying also during, yeah, the rallies to go for it.  But I was not able actually to being more aggressive than she was, and I think that that was then the difference.   
I was trying to pushing me, but, yeah, I mean -- yeah.  That actually was not really the best day of me.  But she plays good, and all the credit to her.   
 Q.  I'd like to know of the loss of No. 1 and 2 seeds in the tournament, do they affect you a little bit in the pressure to think, Oh, I have more chances, or you don't care and you just go on?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I don't care.  I don't care, because, I mean, I'm just taking care about my draw, about my opponent, about my matches, and my day.   
So, yeah, I really -- I'm not looking around.  So I just try to going my way and I'm not trying to looking around who was winning or who was losing.  It's not affecting my game or my preparation.   
 Q.  In the matches in Canada and Cincinnati, looked like you were playing well, even if you were not going deep.  Here, do you feel the same way?  Your level didn't drop, or just tough opponents or do you feel you were missing something?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I'm feeling good.  I was trying to do the best what I can do.  I mean, it was maybe not the best preparation I had before US Open.  I had not really a lot of matches on hard court.   
But, yeah, I tried the best, and, you know, every match is always tough, especially in the Grand Slams.   
Yeah, I mean, now I will just try to, yeah, taking the good things about this trip and trying to doing better in the next trip.   
 Q.  Simona Halep, Wozniacki, Muguruza and you lost on the new court.  Do you think there is something special...  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I was not taking care about this, that that was the court.  I mean, the court is great and it's a great new court and with the roof.  Actually, yeah, I was excited to play on that court.   
 Q.  How would you describe the challenge of playing someone like her who is so aggressive all the time?  I don't know if it's easy to understand how she's so small and yet hitting the ball so hard constantly.  Is that a disconnect in your mind or if you understand it right away?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, I understand because I played against her a lot of times.  Always tough matches.  I mean, she has not a big serve, but I have not a big serve.  So, I mean, she has something different which makes her strong.  I mean, she played well, very well in the last years, as well.  She's a tough opponent.  But, yeah, I mean, I was expecting how she is playing.   
For me, it was more that I was focusing on me, on my game, and I know that I can play better.  Yeah, she makes -- yeah.  She was the one which was aggressive and, yeah, take the match in the end in her hands.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT