U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/M. Gasparyan   
7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you deal with the conditions out there?  How happy are you to get the win today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, it was really not easy with the conditions.  Especially also because, like, at the beginning of the match we had, like, sun, shadow.  It was so hot with the sun.   
But, I mean, I was just trying to focusing on every single point.  I was trying to not thinking too much about the conditions.   
Yeah, it was really not easy out there today.   
 Q.  Do you remember a hotter day when you had to play a match, or does this rank up there?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's one of the hottest days that I remember here, for sure.  Yeah, but I was expecting this, so I was really trying also before the match drinking a lot of water and trying to staying in the locker room where it's a little bit cooler.  But at the end, when you're out there, you just try to survive a little bit.   
 Q.  What are you drinking out there?  Is it just plain water, or do you have something in the water that keeps you...  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I have a little bit inside.  Yeah, I have also water.  I think water, you have to drink a lot, like I said, also before.  Now after, as well.  Yeah, putting a lot of water in your body right now, because you're sweating a lot and you have to fill it out again.   
 Q.  Do you think it's something similar to rain, if there is a rain delay, should there be an adjustment?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: We have the 10-minutes' rule after the second set, so, you know, I think it is for everybody the same conditions.  And of course you have days like this, but, yeah, I mean, you just try to do the best you can do in this situation.   
 Q.  Could you talk just a little bit about Margarita Gasparyan and what did you think about her game today?  What did she do physically well that tried you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, this is the first time that we played against each other, and she was really hitting the balls really good, really clean.   
I mean, I knew that she was injured for a long time right now.  Now she's coming back.  I mean, if she's playing like this in the next weeks and months, for sure, she is really soon really high in the rankings.   
Yeah, it was a really good match on the really high level from both of us, especially in the first set.  We had really good points and long points, long rallies.   
So, yeah, I mean, she's, for sure, really good player also for the future.   
 Q.  What did you make of her backhand?  I mean, there is not that many one-handed backhands on tour.  How does hers stack up to Carla or whoever else out there?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, it is looking like, really clean, really old school.  I think that the backhand is really dangerous.  She can do everything with this, can play slice, can go down the line.  So, yeah, I think it's also a good shot for her.   
 Q.  It hasn't been the easiest summer trying to get matches on the hard courts.  What were you particularly happy with today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I was trying the last days to really find my rhythm, especially after Cincinnati and after Montreal where I was not feeling the rhythm after the grass courts, coming out to the hard court.  But right now, I'm feeling good.   
I like to play here.  For me, it is a really special place, so I am just trying also to take the memories from the last years.  I mean, playing every single point, enjoying it also on and off court.   
Yeah, I think that the first rounds are always not so easy to find the rhythm in the tournament, but, yeah, I'm really happy that I'm through after this really tough first-round match.   
 Q.  Johanna Larsson next.  Your thoughts on that, how you'll prepare?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I know how to expect, I know how she's playing.  For me, it's the same, like before that match I will focusing on my game, trying to, yeah, playing good tennis, going out there, trying to win the match, of course.  But I know also that it will be not the easy next round.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT