US OPEN
September 4, 2020
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. KERBER/A. Li
 6-3, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. With the suites situation in Ashe, what's it been like to check in on other players and matches you might not normally see?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER:   So that's mean the suite we have in the center court?
 Q. That's correct.
 ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Okay.  You know, I think the situation is really nice, that we can, yeah, use the suites and to be there, like, with the team and watching the center court matches.
 I think the idea, it's really great.  I think it's, yeah, for me, I mean, it's perfect, because I'm only with my team in the last few weeks.  It's great that we have a place like that to chill, to eat, and to watch other matches.
 Q. What I want to ask you is when the draw originally happened on the women's side, there were nine mothers in the field.  There are three mothers into the third round.  What do you think of that?  Do you think you could ever be in that situation when you become a mother that you could still be playing?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I like your questions always (smiling).  You know, I actually don't recognize that there are so many mothers in the draw, but I think, you know, it's good for them.
 I mean, you know, when you can come back and playing on a high level after having a baby, of course it's a great thing, and you can see that everyone loves the sport.  This is always important.
 About me, I don't know (smiling).  I mean, I'm not thinking about this yet.  For me, it's more important now to play good tennis and stay in the moment.  Yeah, let's see.
 Q. Another nice win.  You haven't dropped a set.  Can you just talk through today's match.  What was your experience like out there?  What did you see from her side?  She's a young American.  Played pretty well.
 ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, she played pretty well.  I mean, especially her forehand.  It was really a tough forehand also to return, and she hits the ball really fast and with a lot of spin.
 Yeah, I need a little bit time to find my rhythm and to also know what to expect, because I had no idea what really to expect.
 But she played really well.  I think it was a good match, again.  And, you know, for me, it was important to stay in the match, especially in the second set to be mental strong and fight for every single point, especially at the end.
 Q. On that mental strength, yeah, like I said, you haven't dropped a set but you have been challenged in these matches.  As you go into the second week of a slam, how are you feeling?  Has it been the perfect kind of first week at a major for you, especially considering you come in without having played a match since January?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, you know, I came here and I have no idea where I am, to be honest.  Still, I mean, I had three good matches, also close matches.  Every match was a little bit different.
 But now the second week and the fourth round, I mean, you know, I'm not thinking too much ahead.  It's more like I have a day off tomorrow.  Then I have the next match.  This is more my focus.  I'm really trying to staying here as well in the bubble, also mentally and getting ready for the next match.
 Q. Speaking of that next match, Jennifer Brady.  What do you expect from that match?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Yeah, I never played against her, I think.  So it will be the first match.
 You know, I think I will expect a tough challenge again.  I try to play like I played the last matches.
 Of course I know that I have to improve a little bit in few things, but, you know, it's a next match.  It will be not easier.  I will just try my best.  Yeah, going out there and give everything that I have.
 Q. You know what it takes to be a Grand Slam champion.  You already have that flavor.  So what do you think you're lacking or do you think that now you have everything to go back to where you left and to lift the trophy again, Grand Slam trophy again?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER:   I think it's still a long way.  I mean, of course I know the way.  I have been there already.  But now we have a new tournament.  Every tournament starts from zero, and it's still a big challenge to go on top there.
 It's important, you know, to play the best tennis, especially in the important moments and in important matches.  It's impossible actually to play two weeks your best tennis.
 So you have to, yeah, find a way to give everything every single day.  It is completely new tournament.  You know, new situation for everyone.  So it's still a long, long way.
 Of course I know the way, but this year it's a little bit different (smiling).
 Q. That difficulty you are talking about for keeping the level during two weeks, is that stress even worse for the fact that you have not been playing for several months now?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER:   Of course.  It's stress for everyone, I think, because nobody knows exactly where you are.  You couldn't play tournaments before.  You had such a long break with only getting ready for the next tournament.  We didn't know exactly when it is.
 So that's why it's the first Grand Slam after such a long, long break, and it's a little bit different story than the years before.
 But we are here.  We have to accept this and try to, yeah, to play like we practiced.  So this is the biggest challenge, to make the transition from the practice courts to the match courts.
 Q. How does your past success here affect your thinking as you advance this season?
 ANGELIQUE KERBER:   You know, I think it's more being now in the moment.  Of course I have great memories, and it's a special tournament for me, especially because I won it here once.  And 2011 everything starts here for me, so I have good memories, which gives me also the confidence that I can play well here.
 But this year it's different.  We have to start again from zero, so I try to take all the memories with me on court.  But, yeah, like I said, we have to play the match from zero again and try to give my best.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT