ROGERS CUP
August 8, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. CORNET/A. Kerber   
6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think made the difference today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think for me it was my first match after, like, three weeks now.  It is always not so easy to change also the surface.  I think I need a little bit more time to get used to hard court again, to have a lot of matches, a lot of practice sessions on hard.   
Yeah, you know, I don't know.  I think that I make a little bit too much mistakes in important moments.  Yeah, she played really consistent from the first to the last point.   
 Q.  You're talking about the fact it was your first match on hard courts.  Had you had plans to play Washington before coming here?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: The plan was to coming first to Montreal.   
 Q.  Can you describe the disappointment of a match like this for you after winning Wimbledon three weeks ago.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I will not put the match on a really high position.  I mean, it is one match that I know that I have to learn from it.  I came here.  I make few weeks off after Wimbledon.  I knew I have to come here, play a lot of matches.  Also to get used to the hard court again.   
Of course, it was not the plan to play just one match.  But at the end this is tennis:  every tournament starts from zero.  Now I will try to get ready, learn from the match for the next tournament.   
 Q.  Alize has played particularly well against you the last two times.  Anything in particular that bothered you about her game, maybe in Beijing as well?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I tried to maybe, yeah, look to my game.  I know maybe I was not playing, yeah, the best that I can play.  She played good.  She played really good.  She played already a match yesterday.   
I think for me it's more important to learn from the match, yeah, to looking forward, to take the positives, trying to being better in the next tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT