ROLAND GARROS
June 6, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/A. Kerber   
6-7, 6-3, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  It was a great match and a great run for you in the end on clay.  Can you just give us your thoughts about the matchup and just looking back at this tournament for you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, first it was, for sure, a tough match.  I think we both play on a good level again.   
Yeah, I mean, she was at the end more aggressive than me, and I think that was, at the end, the key for that match today.   
But finally, I mean, when I looking back for the clay court season, it was not so bad.  I didn't know what to expect when I start to go on clay.  But, yeah, I think that I did everything I could in my practice sessions and also in my matches that I had on clay.   
And I give my best.  I think this is all I could do.  So at the end, I think it was not a bad clay court season for me this year.   
 Q.  How were you feeling physically today as the match went on?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, it was a tough match, especially also physically.  I mean, for me, like I said also few days ago, I'm not the best on moving on clay.  So, yeah, this takes me a lot of energy when I'm moving on clay with the sliding.   
Yeah, I think, yeah, it was a tough match physically, as well.   
 Q.  Looking now forward to Wimbledon, which components of your game do you want to work on to improve?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Wimbledon.  I think Wimbledon and grass I will think in the next few days.  I mean, right now I'm really happy how I played the clay court season, and now -- yeah, now I will take few days of rest before going on grass.   
But, yeah, I'm looking forward to playing on grass again, but, yeah, my mind is still here.  So yeah.   
 Q.  Was your movement hampered at all by your foot injury in the third set or no?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, no, it was more blister.  It's not really serious, but it came, I think, in the second set that I had a little bit pain there.   
But it's not -- not serious.   
 Q.  How would you compare the flow and feel of this match compared to the match you two played in Australia?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think you cannot compare matches.  I mean, every match is a different one.  I mean, here we played on clay, and it was a completely different match than we played in Australia or the matches before.   
But I know when I play against Simona, it's always a tough match.  So I know that before I go on court.   
Today it was a tough one again.  But, yeah, I mean, I know what to expect when we play each other, so I think -- or I hope that we will have few more matches in the next few weeks or months.   
 Q.  You mentioned having had a good run here would help you for the rest of the year, for the grass and the hard courts.  What exactly is it that you were looking to improve?  Was it the mental side as well as the physical side?  Because you obviously proved that you could run and run today.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's both.  I mean, of course physically you can always be strong and stronger.  I think this is you have to be consistent in your fitness sessions.  Mentally, it's the same.   
I think you need to have a lot of matches, experience, and then, you know how to be or what to do in the important moments and thinking more about yourself and also how you go to the tournaments, how you schedule your days.   
And I think, yeah, the mental side is always the really most important thing.   
 Q.  My question is about Wimbledon, as well, so I must apologize.  But my excuse is that because we are from England, we take an added interest.  You have won Grand Slams in the past, and you have also got to a Wimbledon final.  So although players often tell us they think about things match by match, do you ever think about the past success that you have enjoyed at Wimbledon?  Do you ever think about what it might mean to win at Wimbledon, as well?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, of course Wimbledon is one of the, yeah, famous Grand Slams.  I think everybody knows it's a traditional one.   
Yeah, I'm really looking forward every year to go there, to play on grass.  I mean, I like to play on grass.  I played there very good in the last years.   
You know, I'm also looking match by match.  I will do the best preparation I can do for grass, for Wimbledon, playing a lot of matches before I go to London.   
And then, like I think everybody, looking match by match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT