ROLAND GARROS
June 4, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/C. Garcia   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  The match went well for you.  Just talk us through your approach dealing with Caroline on home turf.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it was not an easy match.  I mean, first of all, I was playing good from the first ball, and I was really focusing on my game, on my tennis.  I knew that it will be not easy against Caroline.  She played here at home.  Also, the fans, they were actually okay.  I mean, I know they are supporting, of course, yeah, her, because she's from here.   
But at the end I think it was still good.  And I love when it's, like, really full house and to playing, yeah, in front of a lot of fans.   
In the second set, at the end it was a little bit close, a little bit tricky the end, but, yeah, I was still trying to stay focused and playing every single point.  Doesn't matter what's happen before, the games.   
Yeah, I'm happy to be through.   
 Q.  From reaching the quarters here in 2012, how much do you think you've changed as a player?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I change a lot.  I mean, 2012, it's a long time ago.  You know, I was trying to really, yeah, playing better on clay also the last years.   
And now it works much better.  I'm also trying, you know, I think that clay can help me also being better on the hard court, on grass.  I'm trying always to improving my game, improving, yeah, me as a player.   
It's working so far.   
 Q.  How do you view your next match and your next opponent who said today she's planning on playing much more aggressively and trying to finish points quicker?  How do you see that match?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I'm always looking for matches like this, you know, to playing on big stage against the best players.  This is always a big challenge for me, and to going out there playing quarters in a Grand Slam against one of the best players.  You know, I'm looking forward.  I mean, I know this is a tough match, but every match here it's tough.   
So I know what to do.  I know what to expect.  Yeah, I'm looking forward for a big challenge.   
 Q.  You have had mixed results here in the past and again this year your clay court season you have had mixed results, as well.  In the last week at Roland Garros, you have started playing really well.  What is working for you really well right now?  Why do you think you are playing really well?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I think it's more, in my mind, I think I'm trying really going out there, trying to enjoying also playing on clay.  Because the last years I was always, like, too fast, I was always overpowering my tennis, and now I'm trying, you know, to playing more relaxed and trying to moving better and just looking from match to match.   
I think that it's change a little bit more in my mind.   
 Q.  Both you and Simona are trying to put much more aggression into your game, but both of you can run and run and run.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Long match then, I think (smiling).   
 Q.  First, we'll cancel all dinner plans.  But secondly, what do you think is your strength, given that you can play so defensively if you have to?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I don't know.  I think, yeah, we both play really well from the defense, but we both try to improving to being more aggressive.   
I think, yeah, at the end, I will just try to focusing more on my game.  I mean, I know what to expect, but at the end I think that I have to take the match in my hand, trying to be more aggressive, and just taking my chances when I get it.   
But I think at the end, I think it will be a long match, but, yeah, I'm looking forward.  I mean, that's the matches for what we are practicing for and, yeah, I'm looking forward.   
 Q.  You obviously heard about Serena pulling out.  Are you surprised to hear this, seeing how well she was playing?  She looked to be in good form.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I saw the matches, the last matches, and she was playing better and better.  I don't know exactly what happened.  I just hear it, like, few minutes ago.   
So I have really no idea what really what was the reason.  But, I mean, of course if you're not 100% fit, it's always, I mean, you have to be really fit to go out there, but I really don't know what happen, what was the reason.   
 Q.  When you've got a style of play that you're comfortable and happy with, how difficult is it for you to then change your style?  Because you know you want to improve and add different aspects to your game.  Is that a challenge that you worry about as a player when you know you can get results playing in a certain way?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I'm always trying to improving my tennis in every single practice, and I know what I can improve.  I mean, there are still things where I can play better and better, and this is what I'm trying to changing.  Of course it's not like that it's one practice and it's change.  I think you have to be consistent, practicing a lot, and knowing what you want to change.   
 Q.  Sorry I'm late.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I answer already the question.   
 Q.  I hope not.  My fault.  Caroline was saying, I completely panicked, I couldn't play.  I'm not there yet.  I need to learn more.  You can relate to that, how tough it is to get through those stages?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's just experience.  I think when you play a lot of matches like this and you play a lot of Grand Slams, then you know what to expect.  And I think to deal with this, it's always not so easy -- I remember when I was playing my first quarters -- for her, especially here in Paris, but yeah, I think it's just experience.  Over the years you learn to deal with this, and, yeah, you know how to handle the situation.   
 Q.  Obviously everyone knows about Alexander Zverev.  Just want to know your thoughts on Maximilian.  He did quite well today.  He took Nadal to a tiebreak in the third set.  What's your view of him as an up-and-coming player?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, he was playing really well this year so far.  He is a lefty, as well.  I mean, he is still young, so I'm sure that he will have, like -- yeah, a good future, as well.  I think it's still a long way, and really hard work, but I think he's really a hard worker.  Yeah, I hope that we will see a lot from him in the next months and years.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT