ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/A. Bogdan   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on your game today here at Roland Garros?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it was another, I think, tough match.  It was in two sets, but I think every single game was really close, as well.   
I'm just happy about my performance I played today.  I mean, it was the second round here, and I was playing good from the first ball.  I find my rhythm, so I was just, yeah, playing point by point and trying, you know, to play my game plan like I was thinking before the match, and it worked.  So I'm happy to be through.   
 Q.  When we speak to players, they often say, We are just concentrating on match by match, not thinking too far ahead or what might happen further in the draw.  But when you come to a tournament like Roland Garros, do you sometimes get a feeling of how you might play throughout the tournament and does that give you a sense of motivation that you can do well?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, actually I'm also here focusing on round by round.  I mean, everything can happen.  We are at the Grand Slam, so every round is really tough and you have to play your best from the beginning of the tournament.   
So for me I'm just looking every single day.  Also the day which I have off to have a good practice, have a good feeling.  Yeah, and then playing again another match and just focusing on the next opponent.   
 Q.  When you win a match in straight sets, is that beneficial because it gives you rest, or do you sometimes think that you would like to be on the court a bit longer so you get in that rhythm?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, you know, I go out and try to win the match, yeah, in a good way.  So I really not thinking about the time I'm on court.  I have the days off where I can go on court even more than one hour and practicing and trying to getting my rhythm back, but right now I'm feeling good.  I'm here already like more than one week, and, yeah, now I really focusing on the match, as I think this is the only way I'm here, to play good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT