MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 27, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. STEPHENS/A. Kerber   
6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A tough day today?  Conditions as well as obviously playing after a long effort yesterday?  How much did that kind of have a bit of a hangover today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think a little bit, because I was really feeling a little bit tired today.  I mean, of course it was windy, it was tricky, but I have played so many matches in the last three months that I was feeling it a little bit today in my body.   
Yeah, the conditions were really tricky and tough, but at the end -- yeah, of course I was also not really 100% because I was a little bit tired.  But at the end she plays good.  So, yeah.   
 Q.  It looked like you were starting to make a little bit of a push in the second set, playing more aggressively, and you had that handful of good games.  Did you start to feel that something was clicking, or were you still feeling like, oh, an uphill battle?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I always believe I can win the match or turn around matches.  But at the end, also I saw it that I was trying to pushing, I was trying to being aggressive, but at the end, one step was too slow every time.  I was always, yeah, one step too far away from the balls, and then I make the mistakes.   
But, yeah, I try the best what I can do today, and, yeah, at the end, I'm happy about the last three months.  I'm looking forward now to going home, making a little bit rest and getting ready for the clay season.   
 Q.  Yeah, I mean, how long do the racquets get to stay in the bag?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think for sure for a few days, good few days, maybe a little bit more.  Let's see.   
 Q.  Can you reflect a little bit on these last three months?  It's been kind of nonstop playing, nonstop tournaments, and just kind of keeping the head down and working.  But now you get a little bit of time?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, that's what I was feeling today, as well, that I was really working hard the last three months, actually the last four or five months with the offseason.   
And now I really need a little bit of rest to recover my body, my mind, and then getting ready for my surface that I really love (smiling).  That's the clay.   
 Q.  And then obviously, I mean, I guess we will see you again in Fed Cup?  Is that the next time you'll be back on court?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, yes.   
 Q.  Just looking ahead to that weekend and week, just in general, I mean, how big of a week is that with the Fed Cup in Stuttgart as well as the tournament in Stuttgart?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think every year it's a big week, especially when we play the Fed Cup before.  I mean, we play at home.  Now we are playing the same as there.  Yeah, it's a huge thing to playing there in front of the home crowd.   
And then, of course, after the tournament there, I mean, I'm really looking forward.  I think it will be busy two weeks for me, but, yeah, I'm always looking forward for these two weeks.   
 Q.  What's the one thing you're looking forward to most about getting home?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Getting home, just to putting my racquet away, and just sleeping, not just looking to the watch, not being on time for practice.  Just, yeah, having few days of rest and, yeah, not practicing and just being with my friends.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT