MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 26, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/Y. Wang   
6-7, 7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  (Question off microphone.)  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I mean, I think she played good, and for me, it was not so easy to find my game.  But also, I never played against her.  I had no idea what to expect.   
But, yeah, I just knew that she played good here the last few days and also few weeks.  But for me it was not so easy, and I was just trying to fighting.  I think that was the key for me, that I was really fighting for every single ball, also especially in the second set in the tiebreak when it was, I think, 5-All or something.   
So I think it was just one, two points which decide the match.   
 Q.  Could you talk about her game a little bit?  Not a lot of people have seen her on the main tour that much, but what impressed you about her game today?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I think if she play like this consistent the next few weeks and months, I think she will be soon in the top, because she's moving good.  She hits the ball really good.   
Yeah, she's going for it.  I think also she had nothing to lose today.  She played a good match.  At the end, like I said, I think it was just two, three points' difference, and that was, yeah, the difference that I won and she lost.  I mean, it could be also the opposite side.   
 Q.  How is it to play No. 1 with the pressure now?  So it's more difficult to play when you are No. 1, the pressure is higher?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I think I am not thinking about the rankings, about defending points or something like this anymore.  I'm going out there, and I play every single match and thinking about my next opponent, my next day, and not about pressure.   
I think I'm through about all this, and, yeah, I'm just trying to playing good tennis and enjoying to being on court.   
 Q.  How has your thought process changed for the ups of 2016 and downs of 2017?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, it was just, yeah, I think I learned a lot in the last two years, yeah, my best year, 2016, and not a good year 2017.  I think I just, yeah, stayed positive.  I just continued to practice.   
I think I also did a good offseason.  I'm back on track.  I play my game again, and I have the motivation.  I'm going out there.  I fight for every ball.   
So I think it's just, yeah, all the things, all the experience that I'm through right now.  So I think now I know what to expect.  Doesn't matter what's happen.  If I win a good tournament, if I be on top, I know now what to expect and how to deal with all the things.   
 Q.  Have you done another big training block since the Australian Open?  Because you look super-fit on the court right now.  Maybe more than, I don't know, midseason.  Have you changed something in the physical preparation?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I'm just trying to also working during the tournaments.  I think this is just what I was working also the last years, but now I really trying to staying in shape, staying fit, and, yeah, being ready for every single tournament.   
I think this is my goal also with the whole year to going to the tournaments, being ready and playing the best matches I can play.  I mean, you have always good days.  Sometimes you have bad days.  But to know that I give my best, this is, I think, now what is is important for me.   
 Q.  You got a new coach in the offseason.  What changes has he brought in terms of how you approach the game now?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, now I'm just trying to improving my game, and I think I can still improving my game, and, yeah, shots and my serve and everything.  I improve my serve already, so it is just, yeah, the way we are working together and that we have a plan, we know how I would like to play, and it's just time and it's just a process and it's just the beginning, I think.  I mean, we have March, so I'm just three months with him (smiling).   
 Q.  Can you say that the semifinal from Australian Open is one of the best matches so far in 2018?  And if you can speak about the rivalry with Simona?  You played a lot of times against each other.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I played a few good matches this year.  I played tough and close matches.  I mean, this is what I can say.   
I mean, of course the semis at the Australian Open was a close match, and it was also one, two points which decide the match.   
But at the end, this is tennis and you have to learn from all your wins and loses.   
 Q.  Next match against Sloane, what has your observation kind of been about her last 12 months, as well?  What do you expect from that match?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, of course, I mean, she can play so good.  I mean, she played here already so good, so it is just another tough match.  I mean, she have won the US Open, so she knows how good she can play.  She has a lot of confidence.   
I mean, she was not so playing after that, not so good, but still, I mean, she is here at home.  She loves to be playing in front of the home crowd.   
But for me it will be a challenge.  I mean, the last time I lost against her, and now I just can try again to going out there, play my best, and, yeah, trying my best to give all I can, trying to win the match, but I think, yeah, it will be a good match.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT