BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/E. Vesnina   
7-5, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A bit of a deja vu kind of match there.  Did that play any role in terms of making it tricky being on that court, that opponent?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, I had it a little bit in my mind, but yesterday more when I knew I play on the same court and against her.   
So, yeah, but actually I was trying to try to do it better than last year, trying to, yeah, playing my game.  And I know what to expect when I played against her, and it's always not easy when we play against each other, so I think it's always a good match.   
Yeah, I'm happy to get through.   
 Q.  Is there anything about that court that makes it tricky?  You're not the only one.  A lot of players, maybe it's more tight, more noise, things like that.  Is it distracting?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it's a little bit louder I think also because the restaurants are around the court.   
But at the end, I played already just on the court for the moment, and I was trying to, yeah, not thinking about this.  Just trying to taking this court as just a normal court and not thinking too much that I played again on this court like I played or I lost last year.   
 Q.  What happened in the first set when you were up 4-Love and you went down 4-5?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think this is tennis.  I mean, especially she played -- she started playing much more aggressive and much more better.  I lost a little bit my quality in my game, and, yeah, and then it was 4-5.   
I know that I have to play every single match every single point against her my best tennis, because she is always trying to coming back.  Also in the second set it was 6-2, but it was very close, every single game.   
So, yeah, I mean, I was then trying to staying in the match and I think the 5-5 was really important.   
 Q.  Was it mentally difficult, the changeover at 4-5, thinking about what happened last year, also?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, I was not thinking about this when it was 4-5.  I mean, during the match I'm not trying to thinking what's happened.  I'm trying to thinking that I can -- that I have to win the next game.  And this is important what I'm thinking on court.   
 Q.  What was the key, do you think, of those last, you know, three games of the first set, saving the break points?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think my two aces (smiling).   
 Q.  Good call.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think that was the key in the first set when she had the break points to go for 6-5, and then I make the two aces.  I think that was important for the first set for me.   
 Q.  Last year you didn't play very well, as you have talked about, but this year you have played great for the most part.  Just talk about it.  You got here, you're thinking, I'm going to do what now?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I'm just focusing on every single match and every single day.   
Actually, I get through a lot in the last two years, and now I just try to, again, focusing on my game, practicing hard, and this is what I'm trying to do here.  From the first day when I arrive to just playing good during the practices and then also going out there and showing good tennis like I can play and like I played the last years.   
This is actually my goal now.  I'm not thinking too much ahead, not thinking or looking back.  I'm just trying to being here now.   
 Q.  So last year you were getting very frustrated when you weren't playing well, and now this year you're playing great.  What was the switch there?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's just more that I'm trying to, yeah, playing every single tournament and every single match.  To be honest, I'm not looking on 2017 anymore.  I mean, for me, the year, it's over, and I learned a lot.  I learned a lot of positive things also during 2017.  And I think, yeah, it makes me also, yeah, a better person and better, like, player.   
 Q.  Next up you have Caroline Garcia.  Talk about her rise obviously kind of being more of a top 30 player to now being a staple in the top 10 and what do you expect of that.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think it will be another good match.  I mean, it's the fourth round.  And she serves good.  I saw a little bit of first set from the match today.  And I know what to expect.  I played against her at the end of last year.   
So, yeah, it's another quite big match for me, and I will go out there, try to playing like I played the last weeks and trying to, yeah, enjoying the next match.   
 Q.  How do you feel with these conditions for your game?  Do they suit them or do you have to fight them?  Some players love it; some players don't.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think it's different.  I mean, there are days where it's really tricky, but there are days where it's good for my game.   
So actually, you never know what to expect.  I mean, I have to really going from day by day and seeing how the weather is tomorrow, how the conditions are, because it can be windy, as well, so you never know what to expect here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT