DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 20, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/B. Strycova
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What are thoughts about that?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think I was trying to playing my game.  I think it was a little bit different to play night than during the day because I was practicing yesterday night, but it was still a little bit different on court with the lights and everything.
Yeah, I think I played a good match.  I played a solid match.  It's always tough to play against her.  You never know what's happen.  She's always a fighter.  But I'm happy to won the match in two sets.
Q. You're playing with a lot of confidence now.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I try to play every single match separate, focusing on every round, of course going out there to win the matches, playing to play like I play in the practice.
Q. You mentioned conditions could be different playing at night to day.  You're playing mid to late afternoon tomorrow.  Will that affect the game plan?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think the game plan is always the same.  You just need a few games to get used to, yeah, the day or night session.  It's always a little bit different.  But I think for my game, it will nothing change.
Q. How do you enjoy playing in Dubai?  The court, the conditions, that gets the best out of you?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I don't know what it is, but I like to play here in Dubai.  I like the weather.  It's always nice.  Yeah, it's sunny.  You have the hotel on-site.  I think I just try to really enjoy my stay here every year.
Q. You're playing an opponent who has won here, but is now ranked in the hundreds.  How do you approach something like that?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I'm not looking against who I'm playing.  I try really focusing on my game.  Of course, I know against who I'm playing.  But at the end she had a great matches here.  I think she played quallies, as well.
I will just try to play another good match, playing like I played the last weeks.  This is more my focusing, and not against who I'm playing.
Q. What is the one thing you think you've improved most since last year?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know.  I think I just try to, yeah, enjoy playing my tennis, trying to improving my tennis every single day.  I change my serve a little bit, so there's a few things that's changed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT