AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KERBER/A. Friedsam   
6-0, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  So far this season has gone very well for you.  Talk a little bit about your mindset.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, I think so far it was a good season, the start of the good season, and I'm just trying to playing every single match each.  I mean, I'm not trying to focusing too much on ahead, on past, or what's happened in the last year.  I'm just trying to really restart again and try to enjoy my tennis again and trying to making the transit, you know, from the practice, from the offseason to the match courts, I mean, because this is always a little bit different, but so far it works.  I'm happy about my start.   
 Q.  When you say enjoying your tennis, what was it last year that you weren't enjoying anymore?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I think last year I will actually not speak about this anymore.  I mean, last year was really not the best year, everybody knows, and it was a lot of new experience.  But I'm also thankful about all the things, because I think I'm growing and I grow with all the last 24 months, which makes me also, I think, a little bit another person but also another tennis player on court, which goes through all the things in the last few months.   
But I'm actually, right now, I'm just happy to playing again good tennis.   
 Q.  You said you became another person, but you didn't change too much towards the Italians, because you always beat Pennetta and last week Giorgi, three matches in a row.  Please stop.  (Laughter.)  
 A. After Pennetta, it's Giorgi now, yes?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it was a good match against Giorgi, as well.  She came through the qualifiers in Sydney and she's a really dangerous opponent, I know that, so let's see what she can do here.   
 Q.  Being back in Melbourne at Melbourne Park, how's it feel?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It feels good.  Everybody knows that I love Australia and I always playing good here.  I'm really happy to being here with all the nice memories from two years ago and also the years before, and I'm just, yeah, loving the country.  I just enjoy my stay here every single year, and it's always great to start the year here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT