SYDNEY INTERNATIONAL
January 9, 2018
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/V. Williams
5-7, 6-3, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Another good win.  Another three-setter.  What was the difference between the first and second set?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I think I start not bad, but then Venus was playing also good.  I think every game was close.
I was trying -- I mean, yeah, I had, like, now a lot of matches in the last few days, so I was just trying to going for it, trying to just, yeah, playing my game, trying to doing this what I did good in the last few days.  Also, when I had my set point in the first set, trying to not thinking about this, not thinking that I had lost it, just looking ahead and trying to, yeah, playing point by point.
Q. That seems to be the theme of your 2018 so far.  Just look ahead?  Not look back?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes.  Not looking back anymore.  I mean, I'm, yeah, happy how the 2018 starts.  I mean, I was doing a lot of work.  Yeah, I mean, I'm just looking forward to have a lot of matches before going to Melbourne, and now I have another one.  Let's see how many I will get.  But this is actually just a goal to playing matches and then going with a lot of confidence, yeah, to Melbourne.
Q. Is it the case at the moment of, like, the more matches the better for you, or do you get to a point where I have had enough, I need a few days off?  Are you feeling fresh?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Actually, yes.  I think for me it's now more important to have a lot of matches.  I mean, I didn't have too many matches last year, so -- and I know, like, from the years before that always when I have a lot of matches, I can take the confidence to another tournament.  Every tournament starts from zero.  Now I'm here.  It's just completely different than it was in Perth, and it will be completely different than it will be in Melbourne next week.
But now I'm just looking day by day, step by step, and trying to coming back and playing again good tennis like I played in 2016.
Q. It gets no easier in the quarterfinals.  Cibulkova next.  You have had a succession of these really, really tough opponents.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, and it will be another one.  It will be another tough battle against Domi, and, I mean, we both -- we didn't have the best year last year, but I think we are both looking forward to this year.
I mean, we will just try our best.  For me, I just can say I'm going out trying to play another good match.  Of course trying to win it, but just focusing on another day and not looking too much ahead and also not looking back (smiling).
Q. My German is not great, but what did Wim tell you after the first set?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, he just told me that I just had to go for it, just playing my game plan.  I mean, not looking too much about the score.  Just trying to, yeah, moving better, moving a little bit fore and back.  Yeah, just going for it.  I mean, nothing special.
Q. A quick question about your serve.  Have you made adjustments to it a little bit, you know, during the offseason?  It looks a little bit different.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, I did a little bit.  Also like -- yeah, a few adjustments, actually.  I mean, the second serve and also the first serve I'm trying to, yeah, doing things a little bit different also with my legs.  So this is what I'm trying to doing now.
Q. Like more lift?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: More lifting and also, with the left leg, I'm not going in front.  So I'm staying with both legs.  So there are few adjustments, yeah.
Q. Is it to the point where you're comfortable with it, or is it still...
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, no, it's good, yeah.  Now it's good.  I'm feeling like always I have served like this.
Q. What will you do tomorrow?  You don't play tomorrow, do you?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: No, no.
Q. A day off?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes (smiling).
Q. So how will you spend it?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I don't know yet, but for sure I will sleep, and then maybe, yeah, enjoying a little bit also Sydney, because we just arrived two days ago.  Then I had the two matches.  And tomorrow we will have relaxing day off, yeah, and getting ready then for Wednesday against Domi.  And now we go sleep.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT