THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 2, 2019
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/T. Maria
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How did it feel to walk out on Centre Court?  What were the nerves or butterflies waiting to walk out on court?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: You know, I was really nervous, to be honest, because of course to going out there as the defending champion, it was really special.  Walking on the Centre Court, yeah, playing there again, I mean, a lot of emotions, a lot of memories.
But I was enjoying this.  I was really enjoying the match.  I was enjoying the points and the crowd.  It was a really, yeah, nice match, but of course with a lot of nerves at the beginning.
Q. Is it different walking out on Centre Court as a defending champion than walking out on Arthur Ashe or Rod Laver?  Did it feel different?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It is the same pressure.  It is the same nerves, for sure.  But here, I mean, this is a really special tournament.  This is the tournament of the year where you really would like to play your best tennis.
I think it was a little bit different, but the nerves and everything are the same.  Doesn't matter which Centre Court you are coming back as the defending champion.
Q. Talking about the match today, I know she wasn't giving you a lot of pace on the ball.  Talk through the challenges of playing her today.  It had been a while since you played.
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I know her very well.  We practice also few times together.  I was prepared for a match like this because I know she is playing very tricky, especially with the slice on both sides.
You need a lot of patience.  You have to go for it, hitting the ball.  The serve was important today, but also play every single point, playing every single point each.  I know she is playing until the last point.  She's always trying to coming back, trying to doing her best with her style of game.
Yeah, it was a little bit tricky in the second set for me.  Yeah, you never know what to expect from her.
Q. You played at Mallorca.  Do you think it helped your preparation?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yes, I think it helps that I played few tournaments before Wimbledon.  I got my confidence back playing on grass, playing good matches against good opponents, feeling my rhythm.
I think it was, yeah, important that I play the two tournaments before I came here.
Q. How have you found out, now that the tournament is under way, the specialness of coming back as a defending champion goes away, how have you found the leadup of doing a champion's press conference, playing first on Centre Court?
ANGELIQUE KERBER: It is a huge experience for me.  Coming back as the defending champion, to see the names on the wall, like my name on the wall, the pictures, to having the opportunity to studying.
I think that gives me also, yeah, again, much more experience for the next years, for the next months also as a person, as a tennis player.  It's always great that you can still learn few things, something new, something special.
I like it because, yeah, you just came here -- for me, it's the first time I come back as the defending champion.  I'm trying to enjoying it, as well, to enjoy the moments on court but as well even more off-site.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT