WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2017
Angelique Kerber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. MAKAROVA/A. Kerber   
6-4, 1-6, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  It was a very dramatic match.  Can you talk us through the ups and downs?  Late in the third set, especially.  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I think it was up-and-down match, and I was finding my rhythm actually in the second set.  But I had the chance as well in the first set.  She played well then.   
The third set was, yeah, a completely up-and-down set.  She had chances; I had chances.  In the end it was just one point which decide the match.   
 Q.  Looked like she struggled with cramping during the match.  How did you feel out there?  What were conditions like for you?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I mean, I was trying just staying focused on my side and just trying, you know, to fighting.   
Yeah, it's a tough loss, but at the end, I mean -- yeah.   
 Q.  How tough was it for you to focus on that when she has the trainer out at 6-5 in the third and then sort of down on the ground in the tiebreak?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, it's always not so easy, but yeah, I had matches all the time, a lot of matches like this, so it's nothing new that, yeah, that's happens something like this.  If you have something, of course you can call a trainer or, yeah, whatever.   
 Q.  It's been a long season.  Are you going to take a little bit of a break right now before New York but not touch a racquet for a while?  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: I think so.  I think right now I have a little bit more time than last year to get ready for New York, so that's why I think I will sit down with my team today or maybe tomorrow and we will think about the next days how we will schedule it.   
 Q.  Overall what's your mindset heading to New York?  You battled very well.  It wasn't a win, but...  
ANGELIQUE KERBER: Yeah, I'm thinking that my fighting spirit is of course back and I'm feeling that it's getting better and better.  Of course I wished to win the match, especially in the situation now to have maybe a tough match before going to New York, but yeah, I mean, I can take also good things from that match and going, for sure, with good memories to New York.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT