DAVIS CUP FIRST ROUND, CROATIA vs. USA
March 6, 2005
Nicky Pilic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIM CURRY:  Questions. 


Q.  Do you have any words to describe Ivan's performance? 

CAPTAIN PILIC:  Well, I think it's very, very good.  I mean, he play six times and won six times.  I think he is in top form, beating American team in America on cement, supposed to be the best team in the world.  He make a big sensation, and I'm proud of my team and team spirit, that we fight and won against America in America. 

Q.  Have you remarked on the performance you got from Ivan? 

CAPTAIN PILIC:  Well, I said also on first day, on the players' dinner, I said the American team is extremely strong, but we are very solid and very hot.  That means we are in good form.  Ivan make really great match against Agassi, and great match today. 

Q.  What were you personally thinking of his chances going into the fifth set, knowing he was starting to have problems with his knee? 

CAPTAIN PILIC:  No, when he get his knee down, he already had two breaks, 4-1.  I didn't worry very much because when he says something on knee, he make two or three good points after that.  So I would say maybe it's a little bit tight because one muscle is tight or something like that.  But on that particular point, I wasn't.  I was very scared on third set, which Roddick had I don't know how many set points, and he save it.  Okay, he came from 4 -- 6-3 to 6-All.  But you can't win every important point.  But third set I think was very crucial, and obviously on fifth set he play beautiful tennis, no doubt about that. 

Q.  Croatia is not seeded in this event, right? 

CAPTAIN PILIC:  We didn't deserve to be seeded because last year we lost in first round, then we save ourself against Belgium. 

Q.  A team that was unseeded in the World Group has never won the Davis Cup.  Now you have Spain out of it.  You would think maybe Australia only has one good player, Great Britain only has one good player.  You guys are going real good.  What kind of chances do you give Croatia of winning the Davis Cup? 

CAPTAIN PILIC:  I think we are very far away from that.  I know there is -- Davis Cup is unpredictable.  I mean, there is no rules in Davis Cup.  I mean, '88 we play against Wilander for Germany, Wilander and Edberg, No. 1 and No. 4 in the world.  After second day, we won 3-0.  I mean, I wouldn't go that far away.  I mean, in Davis Cup, believe me, everything is possible.  Doesn't matter if you are seeded or not.  I mean, with inspiration and team spirit, playing for your own country, you can reach times 150% of your potential, of your normal potential. 

Q.  Could you give us a little perspective on how this victory will be greeted back home when you go home? 

CAPTAIN PILIC:  Great.  I already get some messages from my wife, that she get call from Croatia.  My wife is in Munich.  People are delighted, first of all, after doubles.  And I know that some groups of people, 20 or 15, they make barbecue and they watch the doubles.  That's what last news I've had.  Definitely now when I come to hotel, I still have a few phones, doesn't matter what time is there. 

Q.  Do you live in Croatia? 

CAPTAIN PILIC:  No.  But I'm from time to time there.

Q.  Where do you live? 

CAPTAIN PILIC:  I live in Munich.  But, I mean, for some tournaments in Croatia, and there's some tennis camps and something like that. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT