THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 24, 2018
Luke List
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DOUG MILNE: Thanks for joining us for a few minutes, 4-under 66 today on what was not an easy today, 7-under and ahead by one.
Just a few comments.  You wanted to go out and hit a few balls to kind of keep things in check.  Just a few comments on today and how you're feeling in advance of tomorrow.
LUKE LIST: Yeah, I got off to a good start, a lot of pars in the beginning and turning in 3-under was huge for me.  Felt like Jamie and I were going back and forth there which was nice, a lot of good golf, so we were kind of feeding off each other.  It was just a fun day out there.  I really enjoyed myself and besides the bogey on 17, I played really nice golf.
Q. When you come into a moment like this tomorrow, what can you draw on from Sanderson a couple years ago?
LUKE LIST: Yeah, I've been in final groups before.  Mostly usually on Saturdays, so I was happy the way I handled myself today because I've had some rounds where I've had the lead or share of the lead going into Saturday and haven't performed the way I'd like to, and I was happy with that and it's another learning experience going into tomorrow.
Yeah, I'll be nervous and there will be a lot of pressure, but you know, that's part of why we do it out here.  So I'm excited to challenge.
Q. Justin, when he had not won until Malaysia, he was talking about chances, getting ahead of yourself, thinking about what it could mean.  Do you recall feeling any that have when you had the chance at Mississippi?
LUKE LIST: Yeah, I think for sure, anybody trying to get their first win is feeling a little extra perfect sure.  But for me, I'm getting a lot better understanding my tendencies and that means that knowing the less I do and the less I try, I actually perform better.  So that's something I'll try to take into tomorrow for sure.
Q. There are a few more scores in the 60s today than last couple days.  Is that the conditions or just guys playing better?
LUKE LIST: I think a little bit of both.  The wind was coming out of the south a little bit, so it wasn't the straight east wind we've had the first couple days, and that made it a little easier.  But it's still 15, 20 miles an hour, typical Florida wind which is always challenging to get close to a lot of the crosswind pins.
I think guys, obviously to make the cut here, perform pretty well just to do that.  They kind of knew what to expect coming into today and they were able to take advantage of a few more opportunities.
Q. Just to follow up on that, the winds are supposed to come down tomorrow.  Is that good for you or not so good?
LUKE LIST: Doesn't really matter.  If it comes down a little bit, there will be more birdies, which I've been able to make some birdies in my day, so I think that's a good thing.  I'm looking forward to the challenge either way.
Q. Yesterday Daniel Berger said playing this course is like getting punched in the face every single hole.  If it is tough again tomorrow, how does that affect the way you have to approach this, knowing that everyone can get beat up here?
LUKE LIST: You just said it:  Knowing that everyone is facing that challenge at hand.  So going into today, just realizing that everyone is facing the same obstacles out there is huge.  You're not alone out there if you make a bogey or a bad swing here or there.  I'll definitely be replaying that in my mind for sure.
Q. Everybody has a different philosophy on Sunday and watching the leaderboard.  Are you somebody that keeps an eye on that leaderboard, or do you just care about yourself?
LUKE LIST: Yeah, I'd like to say just care about myself, but I'm sure I'll glance at it, whether that's good or bad, I don't really know.  But you know, I think until you get to 15, it really doesn't matter to a certain degree.  I'll try to do my own thing for most of the day, especially in the early on, and then if there's something I need to do in the last four or five holes, then probably take a look.
Q. What do you think has been the difference in your improved form?
LUKE LIST: I think it's been a steady progression.  I've put in a lot of work and it's been on the mental side.  I'm in a really good place, married for a couple years and just really happy.  I love living in Southern California I've got a great coach, Jamie Mulligan and just really enjoying myself.
I feel like I'm out here for a few years now and I know what to expect.  I'm really trying to just not be hard on myself.  I've always had the talent to compete out here.  I've just not gotten the results and trying to be patient as much as I can.
Q. What about this round?
LUKE LIST: Just telling myself that it's going to be okay.  We put so much pressure on ourselves out here to perform, and you know, it's not always easy because you're not winning and you tell yourself, okay, you're not doing the right things.
But for me, I feel like I've been more positive than I have in a long time, just based on focusing really on the task at hand, which is the shot right in front of me.  That's my immediate focus.
Q. When you first came out, as you look back, do you feel the expectations were too high?
LUKE LIST: Well, I don't know about that but I definitely had high expectations.  Whether or not that was everyone telling me I was talented or whatever; I just kind of let that get to me a little bit.
I wasn't doing the right things and I wasn't working the way I should, and now that I've got that focus, I feel like I'm starting to see a little bit of light at the end of the tunnel.
Q. Correct me if I'm wrong but you used to live out here, and you moved to Southern California, I think the play really improved there.  Why did you move out to sun earth California and what has working with Jamie Mulligan done for you?
LUKE LIST: He's worked with some great players in his day.  I just really like his attitude and approach to the game.  He's not your typical golf coach.  He kind of took me under his wing right when I moved from here out to Long Beach, and you know, I was struggling a little bit with my game.  We just kind of broke it down and kind of improved on just some of the basic things and then we started working on the golf swing, etc.
You know, I owe a lot of my success to him, and it's been fun getting to know him more on and off the golf course and just learning a lot from him.
Q. When did you move?
LUKE LIST: Kind of end of 2013.  So I've been out there almost five years.
Q. Is he pretty soft on you?
LUKE LIST: At times.  He's got the right words.  I think all of his -- Patrick Cantlay and a lot of the guys he's taught over the years are his kids, and at the right time, he'll kick you in the pants for sure.
Q. Where did you grow up?
LUKE LIST: I grew up, I was born in Seattle, Washington and moved to Jasper, Georgia and Rydal, Georgia (ph).  Most of my childhood was spent in northern Georgia.
Q. If you don't mind one really, really odd ball question.  Have you ever, growing up as a kid or even playing a final round of a tournament, worn a red shirt, or did watching Tiger growing upturn you away from that?
LUKE LIST: No, obviously Tiger, that was kind of his thing.  I think a few guys do it now with Jon Rahm and maybe Patrick Reed maybe or something.
I actually only have one shirt left, so hopefully we finish and don't go into a playoff Monday because I'll be having to do laundry.  I don't have any real superstitions.  I use a Georgia quarter now and that's about it.  I don't have any clothing superstitions.
Q. Ted Potter, Junior came in as an underdog as Pebble Beach and ended up being a great story.  How much of an inspiration is he to guys?
LUKE LIST: Yeah, it's a great story.  He fought back from injury which is always hard to do.  He had already won on TOUR before, so I think he had that to draw back on.  But you know, you guys build up certain players.
Tomorrow I know I'll an underdog going against Justin Thomas and guys like that, which is fine.  It's kind of nice having Tiger in the field now because he takes all the attention off everybody else.  So you can just kind of go out and do your own thing.
The first nine holes today, we had some fans out there but it really felt like everybody was watching Tiger Woods and it was pretty cool.  I'm glad to have him back for sure.
Q. You mentioned about nothing matters till 15, but is it human nature in terms of thinking about that win?  Obviously all of you are trained not to do that but how do you block that out?
LUKE LIST: It's not so much blocking it out, but it's channeling it in the right direction where you're not beating yourself up if you are thinking about it.  You're just like, all right, I thought about it, and move on to what you're supposed to be doing.  I'll try to be really easy on myself tomorrow.  Done a good job of that all week and just going to keep up with that.
Q. Where is your wife from?
LUKE LIST: She's from Augusta, Georgia, actually.
Q. You just don't hear of people moving to California that often.
LUKE LIST.  Yeah, and I kind of like that.  You get a lot of crap from the guys, taxes, whatnot, out in California, but I love it and it's felt like home to me.  Everybody's embraced me out there.  It's been nice.  I met my wife out there.  We feel like home out there for sure.  It's a nice place to go home to.  We are fortunate the West Coast Swing this year to have such great weather, and I think people, when you have the weather like that, they get a glimpse of how good it is out there.
Q. I might have missed this but did you move there because of Jamie Mulligan?
LUKE LIST: He was one of the focal reasons for sure.  When I started working with him late in 2013, I was commuting from here out on the road, seeing him out on the road a lot, but I kind of wanted to go all in and that was part of it and we started from scratch.  Probably one of the best decisions I've ever made in my life.
Q. How are those taxes?
LUKE LIST: Yeah (laughing) I think Phil answered that won one of these years.  But unfortunately I'm not in his tax bracket.  But it's not great but if you justify the experience out there, it's a nice place to live.
Q. How would you describe the experience when you were roommates with Jamie?
LUKE LIST: Yeah, he was injured at the time, so it was a tough situation for him.  What another good comeback story.  He's fought back hard from injury.
He's always been a freak talent even from when he was 16, 17, 18.  I played with him when he was a senior in high school and the Western Amateur.  I played great and he beat my brains in.  He's got a long future ahead of him if he stays healthy.  He's a phenomenal athlete and a phenomenal player.
Q. You've got that freak athletic ability, too, though.  Who is a better athlete and did you ever compete in stuff other than golf?
LUKE LIST: We played a little tennis.  Once he recovered a little bit from his surgery, and he would probably handle me pretty easily in basketball.  Throws a mean football, baseball.  I'd say, you know, I've got a little athletic ability outside of golf but he could have played any sport and done really well, so I'll give him the edge.
Q. He described those years as a lot of fun.
LUKE LIST: We had a good crew, Jon Curran, Keegan Bradley and a couple of his St. John buddies.  We had a lot of fun.  We were young and it was -- Keegan was playing well, and I think all the rest of us weren't playing up to our abilities.  It was a good thing for me to move out to Long Beach, but other than that, we had a great time.
DOUG MILNE: We appreciate you joining us.  Best of luck tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT