DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2017
Luke List
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Luke, excellent start, 3-under today 6789 if we can get some comments on your rounds?
LUKE LIST: Yeah, kind of an up-and-down day for me.  Off to a pretty rough start but I kind of told myself, it was playing difficult out there.
The course is in fantastic shape.  Whenever you throw in 15- to 20-mile-an-hour winds and fast greens, conditions can be tough.  So I hung in there.  I was just patient and was able to make quite a few birdies coming in.
Q. Started off with three bogeys and then you kind of rebounded after that.  It was a whacky front nine there.
LUKE LIST: Yeah, one par is usually never a good sign but when you throw in five birdies, you're going to be okay.
Just there's definitely some holes out here that par is a good score, 12 being one of them.  Still haven't figured out how to play that one.  That's an interesting topic this week, I'm sure.
But there are some very gettable holes, especially on the front nine, 4 and 7 and the par 5s, you can get after.  I just told myself there was some birdies to be made, and I was fortunate to do that.
Q. Were you one of the guys that went down 13 --
LUKE LIST: No, I wasn't.  I hit the tree and my ball ended up in the fairway on my second shot.  It looks pretty good over there.  I might have to try that tomorrow.
Q. I think you had a third at Shell?
LUKE LIST: Yes.
Q. And then after that, it didn't seem to click for you.  You weren't able to kind of build that momentum.
LUKE LIST: That's the beauty of the whole wraparound season.  I was able to get off to a good start of the year.  I played really nice for a while and just put a little too much pressure and expectations on myself.
I've had some good finishes, but I haven't been able to keep my putter going as well as I'd like.  I actually rolled it really nice today, so I was happy with that.
Q. Do you feel like it's coming around these last few weeks?
LUKE LIST: I hope so.  My attitude's been a lot better.  That's something for me that I always fight.  So if I can keep my attitude in it, I know I'll at least enjoy myself out there and hopefully the good stuff will follow that.
Q. What, in terms of the attitude?
LUKE LIST: Just staying positive.  I've got obviously expectations for myself and I haven't quite a achieved everything I have this year, especially for feeling like I had a really good year.
But that's all stuff you've got to just throw away and focus on what you're doing.  Hopefully I can do that the next couple days.
Q. This is your first look at this course?
LUKE LIST: Yeah, it is.  I played nine on Wednesday and walked the back nine with my wedge and putter and just kind of scoped it out.  There's definitely some lines that I think that I didn't quite have today that hopefully I'll have tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT