PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2019
Luke List
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LUKE LIST: I thought it was challenging, the whole back nine to have the wind, on 12, 13 -- 11, 12, 13, and 14, and we got a little break on 15.  When the wind is in your face on those holes, you have to be in the fairway and if you don't, you scramble to make par.  It was challenging to say the least.
Q. You're tied for third right now going into tomorrow, seven or eight shots back, how do you approach that?
LUKE LIST: Yeah, I have to go play my game.  Obviously Brooks is playing tremendous golf and who knows what could happen.  Some majors in history show some big leads, guys come back from.  But hopefully this is one of them.
Q. Were you thinking about trying to get in the final group?
LUKE LIST: No, I just hit a bad tee shot and tried to hit a good second shot.  Unfortunately didn't hit a very good putt.  I'll be probably second-to-last or third-to-last group.  That's fine.
Q. Do you feel --
LUKE LIST: We have a lot to play for every week on Sunday, so it's no exception.  The more I treat it like a normal event for me, the better.  I'm just going to go out and try to shoot under par tomorrow.
Q. Does this course suit you?
LUKE LIST: Yeah, I love it.  I first played it during The Barclays a few years ago.  I love the golf course.  I got on property this week -- been injured and not been playing well and felt like it was my time to have a good week.
Q. What was it?
LUKE LIST: Just a nagging little elbow.  Old age.
Q. When you're out there battling a tough course like that, do you look up at the leaderboard and see Brooks as far ahead as he is, does that take the wind out of your sails?
LUKE LIST: Not really, because again I've got a lot to play for.  If I start worrying about what he's doing, I've got no chance.  For me it's just trying to get through and give myself as many opportunities to get on green as possible.
Q. How does this compare --
LUKE LIST: I've played really nice.  I haven't been swinging well but I've been battling and really positive and scrambling around.  Really happy with how I handled myself and if I can do that tomorrow I'll be in good shape.
I feel like if we don't get up trying to win a championship tomorrow, then all of us have no chance.  So it's out there.  I mean, there's been some low rounds this week and I don't know what the wind is supposed to do tomorrow, but if you go out there and shoot 5- or 6-under, you never know what it happen.  That's in my head.  I can't control what Brooks is doing.  He's been playing tremendous golf and I just hope that I have a good day and that he doesn't have his best day.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT