RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 21, 2016
Luke List
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Before we get into your round, the golf course itself:  A little brown it looks but still appears to be very scorable.
LUKE LIST: Yeah, I played Tuesday and the greens you could tell were getting a little step in them and definitely having a little crunch to them.  The rough is down this year, which makes for if you're hitting your driver relatively straight, you can take advantage of it and get some wedges out there.  The golf course is in phenomenal shape for the rain they have had.
Q. When you go bogey-free, 6-under, most of the guys this week talking about taking advantage of the par 5s; are you feeling the same way?
LUKE LIST: You have three on the back nine and I was able to do that today, birdieing all the par 5s, so I was happy with that.  With my length, I tried to get it in play off the tee and have a smart iron into the par 5s.  If I can play them 4-under every day all week, that would be great.
Q. Anything you'd like to maybe clean up for tomorrow or just more of the same recipe?
LUKE LIST: I'm trying to work on the same things.  That's kind of the recipe I'm trying to get for myself is trying to get the same mind-set, same routine and try to replicate that.
Tomorrow in the afternoon will be a little breezy.  Just try to work on my pace on the greens and give myself plenty of opportunities.
Q. 6-under on the day and you got there very early.  What were the scoring opportunities that you saw early in your round?
LUKE LIST: In the back nine, you have three par 5s, so going in, I knew I would have some scoring opportunities and I was able to do that birdieing three of the par 5s on my first nine.  Got off to a great start and hung on at the end and had a couple of good up-and-downs.
Q. In the past you led the Web.com Tour and PGA TOUR in driving distance; how does that play into the way you approach this golf course?  Is that an advantage for you?
LUKE LIST: I think so.  With the par 5s, I was able to have a couple wedges into the par 5s and downwind, that's obviously a great opportunity.  Trying to use my length the right way.  Just being in the fairway is important, but if you can get it relatively straight out here, the sand wedge isn't too bad out of the rough.
Q. Overall, you've had your first Top-10 on the PGA TOUR this year, your second time around.  What have you learned here that's helped you play a little bit better here on Tour?
LUKE LIST: I've been working on my mind-set lately trying to get in the right frame of mind for the rest of the year.  It's been an up-and-down year, and definitely come a long way and been working on the right things, so excited.
Q. Starting off, for a guy known for hitting the ball a long way, how did the contributions play into your game and your low score?
LUKE LIST: I was able to take advantage of the par 5s.  4-under on the par 5s is always good.  I had some short clubs and short irons into the par 5s, which is nice, on my first nine, the back nine, downwind.  If I can do that over the next couple days, I'll be really pleased.
Q. After missing five out of six cuts, nice finish last week at the Barbasol, how much confidence do you have in your game?
LUKE LIST: I think a couple of those missed cuts were pressing too much and just putting too much pressure on myself.  I've been playing well relatively all year.  Missed a lot of cuts by one or two, and sometimes that's the way it goes.  I've been trying to work on my head a little bit and get a good frame of mind for the end of the year.
Q. What was the story between the two nines?
LUKE LIST: I was very fortunate, the first probably five holes, there wasn't much wind at all, and it kind of picked up, which is usually does.  It's usually the same general direction, downwind on 18.  It was a little across there.  I was able to catch 16 and 18, those are pretty good scoring opportunities, especially with the breeze there.
So I had pitching wedge out of the rough on 16 and then gap wedge out of the intermediate cut on 18.  So very fortunate that I had wedges into the par 5s and I was able to have some easy birdies there.
Q. What's better, playing downwind and making birdies or the nice saves?
LUKE LIST: I was really pleased with the up-and-down on 9.  Didn't hit a very good iron shot.  Just to go bogey-free was nice, so I'll take that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT