FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 24, 2013
Luke List
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bogey free with an eagle, you've got to feel pretty good going in to day two.   
    LUKE LIST:   Yeah, expectations were pretty low today.   So I came out just kind of relaxed and enjoyed myself.  
   
 Q.   What are you expecting on the South Course?   It's obviously the more difficult of the two courses.   What do you expect to see?   
    LUKE LIST:   Yeah, it's the more challenging of the two courses.   I was really fortunate to do well on the North Course.   Tomorrow the same thing, keep my expectations low and go out there and have fun.  
   
 Q.   Do you think there's some good luck with the whole Vanderbilt thing, defending champion from Vandy at the top, you're near the top Vandy?   
    LUKE LIST:   We'll take it anyway.   We had a good day today, so hopefully we'll be chasing down tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   What is your relationship with Brandt?   
    LUKE LIST:   He was four years ahead of me.   When he won the Public Links, I was an incoming freshman, and he actually beat me in the semifinals.   He stayed amateur, I think for The Masters and all of that, so he was around Nashville and we played a lot together.   
    He would always give me some tidbits of advice, and we share a lot of mutual friends.  
   
 Q.   Did he give you advice on the North Course?   He holds course record here.   
    LUKE LIST:   Oh, does he really?   I should ask him for a little more advice on that.   But, he's always been really nice to me, and he's had a heck of a career.   So it's cool to follow in his footstep.   
   
 Q.   A lot of rookies have been getting off to a good start this year?  
    LUKE LIST:   Web.com is so competitive.   That's all it is.   You go out there, and we're chasing each other down, making as many birdies as we can.   And we come out here, and it's not that much different.   The courses are a little harder maybe, maybe a little more new to us, but it's still golf.   And you see guys playing so well, and it's amazing.   
    I just hope to continue see guys coming off the Web.com Tour and finding some more rounds.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT