NBA FINALS: LAKERS v CELTICS
June 4, 2008
Vladimir Radmanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  VLADIMIR RADMANOVIC: I'm really looking forward to winning a championship. That's all that matters to me right now. I don't care how many championships Boston won or the Lakers before me, I'm just trying to win it now, and then to be able to do that, I'll be happy to take a look at everything that's happened before again and be happy to be part of history.  
  
  Q. Is the magnitude of this affecting you in any way knowing that every game is now seen by millions and millions of people around the world?  
 VLADIMIR RADMANOVIC: Not really. I think it's pretty much the same as it was before. The playoffs are the same throughout the whole thing. You have to win. That's the bottom line. It doesn't matter if you're in The Finals or the quarter finals. If you lose, you don't have a chance to win what you want to win. I think so far, so good.  
  
  Q. They've stated today, the Celtics, that they will not be double-teaming Kobe. Does that limit the options there with the three-point?   
 VLADIMIR RADMANOVIC: Well, that's their problem. If they don't want to double-team Kobe, I think Kobe is going to have more space to operate. If that's what they want, they're happy with their choice.  
  
  Q. Have you done your research? Do you have any idea why they call Boston "Beantown"?  
 VLADIMIR RADMANOVIC: No, I didn't do any research on that.  
  
  Q. Do you have any idea why they call it that?  
 VLADIMIR RADMANOVIC: No. You can tell me.  
  
  Q. We're trying to find out. I thought you might know.   
 VLADIMIR RADMANOVIC: I don't.   
  
  Q. Talk about the match-up with Paul Pierce.   
 VLADIMIR RADMANOVIC: It's going to be tough. Paul is one of the best forwards in the league, one of the guys that really knows how to draw fouls and get to the free-throw line, and I'm going to have a really tough job stopping him, but I'm up for the challenge. I'm ready for it, and we'll see what's going to happen.  
  
  Q. Talk about your explosive first quarters.   
 VLADIMIR RADMANOVIC: I don't know what to say really about those first quarters. I think I got the ball more in the first quarter than for the rest of the game, and I'm just trying to use it as much as I can. In the Western Conference Finals against San Antonio, that really worked out pretty good for us.  
  
  Q. In your time with the Lakers, especially in these playoffs, try to explain how Phil Jackson is 41-0 all-time when he wins the first game of a playoff series. Why is that do you think?   
 VLADIMIR RADMANOVIC: I don't know. I think it's just the confidence that you have once you win the first game. It's really hard to explain. As a basketball player you never think, okay, if you win a first one, it's going to be a done deal because you know it's not going to be a done deal. But somehow Phil has managed to win them all, so I'm happy to be on his side.   
  
  Q. Talk about all the media coverage around The Finals.   
 VLADIMIR RADMANOVIC: When it comes to media, I'm really not super-excited to talk to you guys.  
  
  Q. Why?  
 VLADIMIR RADMANOVIC: Well, I've been in the league for seven years, and I think seeing this many people in one place is something really amazing, people from all over the world trying to follow the NBA Finals. I've never been in this position, so for me it's all on you, but I'm really happy that it is the way it is because I know a lot of people from all over the place will be able to watch us and enjoy it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT