JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 14, 2006
Kristopher Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Kris, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center, two great rounds to start off the week, finished up pretty strong and then bogeyed 18.  When we went in you were tied with Joe at 10 under.  Just talk about what you've done well these past two days and why you're feeling so comfortable.
KRIS COX:  Yeah, I've putted the ball real well the last two days, and that usually is one of my weaknesses, so it was real nice to see the ball go in the hole.  I was able to get my iron shots pin high a lot, which is always going to leave you somewhere between 15 and 20, 25 feet, even with a sub par    not that great of a shot.  I gave myself a lot of looks and rolled the ball pretty well.

I need to hit the ball a little straighter.  My fairway percentage probably wasn't that good the last two days, so I'll work on that on the range and keep putting well.
Q.  A few guys have mentioned that they were struggling with the putter and seemed to find it here.  Are the green speeds a factor in that, that they're playing a little slower?
KRIS COX:  The green speed is definitely pretty neutral.  You can be very aggressive from really any distance, and that really frees you up to try to make a putt as opposed to lag it close and try to two putt.  There's just not that many impossible putts out here, so you feel like you can make it from anywhere.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Let's go through your birdies and bogeys.  You started on 1 and you made a bogey on the par 5, No. 2.
KRIS COX:  It was playing really long today.  Yesterday I hit a 5 iron in there, and if I would have hit the fairway today, it would have been a 3 wood.  I missed the fairway, hit a very poor layup in the water, and it was just a bogey from the getgo.  It was just a very poor layup, poor wedge after I dropped, and just run of the mill bogey.  Very frustrating because that hole even into the wind is definitely a birdie hole.

Par 3, No. 3, that was a nice comeback, I hit a really good 6 iron in there pin high about 12, 15 feet just on the fringe and was able to get that in to kind of steady the ship the little bit early and get things going the right direction.

No. 6, another birdie, par 4, that was a mis hit off the tee, left myself an 8 iron, but it was in the fairway and I was able to get it 15, 20 feet and roll that one in.  It kind of kept the good vibes going with the putter from the day before.

8, par 4, birdie, I hit a good shot from the fairway bunker probably to about five feet and got that in, so that was nice.

Bogey on 11, just a poor iron shot in the bunker, very good bunker shot to about two and a half feet and a very bad putt that missed on the right side.

14, birdie, par 4, hit a driver off the tee, had a very aggressive play down there in a good spot, chipped it probably ten feet, was able to run that in.

Another birdie on the par 3, 16th, hit a good 9 iron in there probably about six or seven feet.  The hole was cut left.  I like to draw the ball so it was a perfect fit for a 9 iron and was able to take advantage of that one.

Birdie on the par 5, 17th, hit two nice shots, driver and 2 iron just on the fringe and was able to chip it three feet or so and brushed that one in there.

Bogey on 18, that was a bogey from the getgo.  I blocked one to the right, it hit a tree and went further right, chipped out through the fairway into the fairway bunker, so really I felt good with a 5 there.  As bad as I hit the tee shot, 5 is the best you're going to really hope for, maybe a miraculous 4.  Bad taste in your mouth making a bogey on the last hole, but again, it could have been worse.
Q.  What are going to be some of the keys for a good weekend for you?
KRIS COX:  For me it's going to be continued good putting.  The driver has got to behave, cooperate a lit bit more than it has.  You can be very aggressive off the tees because the fairways are fairly generous and they're soft.  Something just solid and somewhat straight is going to stay in the fairway and leave you a scoring club, sand wedge, pitching wedge, 8  or 9 iron, somewhere in there.  It's going to take some low scores on the weekend to contend.  All that being said, long story short, I've got to drive the ball in the fairway and kind of attack from there.
Q.  Your take on Michelle playing Tour events?  Joe Ogilvie suggested maybe she should play more because she's good for the Tour.
KRIS COX:  I think she's great for the Tour, no question.  She's an outstanding talent.  She's going to do things in the game that none of us can really imagine.  I'm 32 years old and she's half my age, and she's just a phenomenal player.

It's got to be tough on her, though.  Every round that she plays is very scrutinized.  If I have a bad day, I go have a meal and a beer and get to go watch TV.  She has to spend time rehashing a tough day.

I think she's very good for the game.  I think she's an outstanding player.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Kris.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT