JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2006
Kristopher Cox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  First there's a two hour delay and now you had to deal with a little bit of gloaming here the last couple of holes.
KRIS COX:  It was good being late because we knew there was a two hour delay so you just plan your day accordingly, but finishing in the dark, it's just tough to read the greens.  I'm glad we're done.  You know, I would have hated to play a hole tomorrow morning and then waited around for an hour to start my second round.
Q.  What did you do with the time during the delay?
KRIS COX:  I went to Barnes & Noble, spent about an hour and a half there, read the paper, just kicked back a little bit.
Q.  It just seemed like all of a sudden this front side here was working pretty good for you.
KRIS COX:  Yeah, I played solid on the back, hit the par 5 in two, No. 2, two putted for birdie; hit it close on 3 and then made two 15 , 20 footers on 6 and 8.

I hit a terrible tee shot here at 18 and made bogey, but gave myself a nice chance for par, five, six, seven feet.
Q.  We were watching it.  It was a little right.
KRIS COX:  Yeah, hit a good shot out from 85 yards, hit a nice shot in there and just couldn't get up and down.  Not to nice to finish with a bogey, but I'm pleased overall.
Q.  It wasn't a case of leaderboard watching?
KRIS COX:  No.  Thursday doesn't mean a whole lot.  You know what I mean.
Q.  What does this give you, though?  What do you take from the positive side?
KRIS COX:  It's nice to have a good round with the putter.  I seemed to make a lot of the 12  or 15 footers that I haven't been, and it's nice to get off to a good start and know that you're kind of in there, you know.
Q.  Have you played competitively when it's been this dark?
KRIS COX:  Yeah, typically in the summertime when we've had rain delays and things, you're always finishing    two or three times a year it happens, but nothing new.  You manage.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT