ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 30, 2019
Dimuth Karunaratne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Afternoon.  English questions first.   
 Q.  To be honest to yourself, I mean you were made the captain of this World Cup team and if you say that all your boys are giving you 100 percent for this one, so in fact what actually do you think has gone wrong for you?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: I think the batting is the main collapse, you know.  If you take the -- we couldn't get a hundred.  We played like six, five matches, so we couldn't get a hundred, only a couple of 50s in our team, so that is the only major thing.  If you want to compete with the good sides, you definitely got to have a good batting line-up and you have to put runs on the board, so I think in this World Cup, the major part is the batting line-up.   
 Q.  You brought in Kasun Rajitha in place of Nuwan Pradeep.  But was there any thought now that the batting is struggling to bring in a batsman as a replacement?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: No, not at all because I think if some fast bowler gets injured, there is no fast bowler, so you want to take a fast bowler into the squad in case if someone get injured.  But I think we have enough batsmen.  They have capabilities to score runs, but I think the only thing is they were scoring but as a unit we couldn't perform really well in these matches.  I think everyone has to put hands up and put heads down and put some runs on the board if you want to really win the matches.   
 Q.  How closely are you watching the game in Edgbaston today?  How disappointing is it that your fate for you team isn't in your own hands at the moment?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: I think we can't control the other games, you know.  They were playing really well.  Sometimes they were playing really well, sometimes they couldn't.  I think we had a good chance.  Still we have a chance, I think, but we have to win these two games and wait for the other, what will happen for the other games.   
Only we can control the matches we are going to play, the two matches, so we are trying to give our best and try to win these two matches and, hopefully, if we have a chance, we definitely can be in the top four teams.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT