ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 28, 2019
Dimuth Karunaratne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
South Africa - 206-1, Sri Lanka - 203   
THE MODERATOR: English questions first.   
 Q.  Disappointed with your team what was a must-win game for you guys, with the lack of application from batsmen, shot selection?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: Of course, I think it is a must-win game for us.  I think if you see the wicket, I think it is pretty good wicket to bat.  We couldn't get a big total on the board.  I think the only disappointment is that we couldn't protect the strike, I think that is the main thing. Those are the main things, you know, we ended up getting 200 runs.   
 Q.  (Off microphone)?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: I don't think so.  I think the thing is, once we lost a couple of wickets, I think Faf did a great job.  I think he put all the fielders in the ringside and the key was to go for big shots, that is it.  And that is what we expect I think of the powerplay, till the 27th over, they will put only two fielders outside, so that is the main field, and we had pressure on at that time.  We were going for the big shots.  That is why the wickets were falling.   
 Q.  Do you think selecting Jeewan Mendis was the right decision?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: I think at the few previous grounds and this is a bit shorter, and we thought he will get some turn on this track and he will, you know, the lines are bigger, so he will bowl without fear, that is the main thing, we trying to give him another run, and unfortunately I think if you don't have many runs on the board, I think we can't ask him to put the pressure on the batsmen and you know take wickets and I think the wicket was getting better and better the latter part.   
 Q.  Eight of the top nine, eight of Sri Lanka's top nine got double figures but no-one progressed beyond 30.  How frustrating was that that no-one kicked on to a big score?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: Yeah, if you are going to get a start, you have to go for a big one.  I think if you take du Plessis and Amla they batted really well, they batted really well in a tough period and then they will keep batting and batting and batting.  They didn't want to get out.  Once they were set, they want to go for big shots, they will keep rotating the strike.  That is what I'm expecting from our players, you know keep rotating the strike and to bat 35, 40 overs and then go for the big shots.  They unfortunately couldn't rotate the strike.  That is the main thing, you know, and they built the pressure on our side.   
 Q.  (Off microphone).  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: I have no idea about that. Nuwan Pradeep, I think he got chickenpox, so we need to check again if he can play in the West Indies match or not.  If he couldn't play, we will get a call.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT