ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 14, 2019
Dimuth Karunaratne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you give us an update on Nuwan Pradeep and also how you all are going to play Australia's pace attack?  What sort of preparation have you made for that?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: Nuwan Pradeep, I think he's fit now, but we need to see whether he can field.  We check that he can bowl normally, normal speed, but we need to check him whether he can do outfield, outfield training.  So that's the main concern, and we will check it today and let's see if he's fit, we'll go for it.   
And the training and the fast bowls, I think we already played against the Australians in the practice game and we know each other very, very well.  So we have some kind of plans, so we try to stick to those things.   
 Q.  We know that it's a different format, but when you were in Australia earlier this year, the short ball was a real issue.  How is the mindset to take on the short ball?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: I think if you take the whole series, or the whole World Cup match, short balls are a serious matter.  There are a lot of wicket, fast bowling taking lot of wicket for the bounces.   
I think we know they are going to go really hard against us, but we only -- the thing is, they can bowl only two bounces, so I think we have to be aware of those things.  And what when he can do, some players, they can play really good for the short balls.  Some of them, they can't.  But if you can think you can go for it, I would say I will give -- I will say to the players, yeah, go for it, because we need runs, as well.   
So I think those are the plans we discuss in the dressing room, so you're trying to do well against Australian bowling attack.   
 Q.  How difficult has it been to not play a match for -- by tomorrow, it will be 11 days, and is that a disadvantage compared to Australia, who have obviously had a game pretty much every three days since the start of the tournament and they are playing, as Aaron Finch was just saying, travelling, playing, travelling, and they are right in it and you guys aren't.  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: I think we stay the same place, so only thing is we couldn't get a game.  But I think after that, we trained.  We trained indoors and outdoors, and we did lots of the physical trainings, those sort of things we can do.  You know, we can't control the weather.   
Unfortunately we lost the -- we couldn't play those two matches, but we were prepared for the Australian game, and today we have a practice.  Normally today is an optional day, but you know, we want to train harder for to play against the Australians, so that's why we are here.   
 Q.  There have been reports that Ashantha de Mel has spoken to ICC about the pitches and the facilities given to Sri Lanka, which are below satisfactory?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: I have no idea what Ashanthe said.  You should ask from him.  I don't know anything about it.   
 Q.  Are you happy with the pitches and the facilities given to you?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: I already said, you know, the people are expecting to win games, so they want to hold the doors on the game.  So if you take today's game, separate wicket, and you know it's a white color.  So if you take this Oval cricket, there's also a bit of green.  I think those are the things, you know, we were not expecting every wicket should be white top.  We are asking for a fair wicket.  You know, you have 50 wickets, that's what we all want and what all the spectators want.   
 Q.  Even this wicket is green, yeah?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: Yeah, it seems like a green wicket.   
 Q.  Just about the hotels and that?  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: Sorry.   
 Q.  The hotels and that, to Sri Lanka.  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: I have no idea about those sort of things.  You should ask from the manager.   
 Q.  Just on Lasith Malinga, has he rejoined the squad, and if so, if he's playing tomorrow, how much of a weapon is he, considering I guess he's had success against Australia in the past.  
DIMUTH KARUNARATNE: Yeah, he's come to join the team and he's going to play tomorrow's game.  I think, you know, obviously if you take -- they are a really good bowling lineup, and their top bowler will bat nine, so we need to get them early.  We need to take the early wickets, and you know, we have to bat the first few bowls; they are the crucial part.  So those are the main key things we will discuss, so we will try to do it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT