NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: BLUES VS BRUINS
May 30, 2019
Carl Gunnarsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Do you have any sense of the reaction in Sweden to your goal?
CARL GUNNARSSON: No, not really.  I had a bunch of texts from friends and family, a couple phone calls.  Yeah, it seems everyone likes it.
Q. Were they all watching?  Got to be pretty late in Sweden.
CARL GUNNARSSON: Yeah, I know a few people that were up.  Closest family, some buddies who were up and watching.
Q. With your ups and downs, perseverance pays off, with the injuries and everything.
CARL GUNNARSSON: Yeah, it's been a long year, up and down.  All worth it in the end.  Obviously a little bonus scoring that goal last night, too.
Q. You have responded well to adversity throughout these Playoffs.  When you had that hand pass go against you, the way Chief came in and told you to forget about it, was that one of the better things that happened because you were able to handle it?
CARL GUNNARSSON: In hindsight, yeah.  Talked about it last night a little bit after the game, a couple of guys, how well the whole team kind of handled that, tried to turn it to our advantage, try to feed off of the energy.  Yeah, not get angry, not focus on the wrong things.  Kind of turned it around and used it.
Q. Can you tell the story again for those who haven't heard it.  Apparently you said you needed one more shot in the bathroom.
CARL GUNNARSSON: Yeah, between periods.  Just talking, he was close there when I hit the post in the third.  Yeah, I just said, Need one more chance.  That's all it takes.
Q. You could feel it coming?
CARL GUNNARSSON: I mean, I think we all felt it going into overtime.  We came out flying.  It felt like it was sitting there for us to take it.  Just happy it was me.
Q. What is it going to be like to come back to a Game 3 tomorrow, the atmosphere?
CARL GUNNARSSON: It's going to be awesome.  I mean, everyone's excited to bring this home.  We've seen the pictures and the videos from the Enterprise Center for the first two games, and we're not even playing there.  I think everyone is just real happy and excited to take it home.
Q. Did you get much sleep last night?
CARL GUNNARSSON: A couple hours, yeah.  Not too much.  I mean, it's kind of tough to go to bed after whatever happens in the game.  You go through a lot of emotions, a lot of things in your head.
We got the day to rest here.  We'll be fine.
Q. Did you save the puck from your goal?
CARL GUNNARSSON: I don't have it, no.  I don't know what happened to it.  That didn't cross my mind at the time.
Q. You and Robert scores, not known as goal-scorers.  Something about this time of year that lends itself to not typically goal-scorers to come up with big goals?
CARL GUNNARSSON: I don't know.  Everyone that can chip in and contribute, we're all happy about it.  Just happened to be me and him.  Usually not two big goal-scorers.  Like I say, it's just an extra bonus.
Q. Educate us on the 'Good to See You, Carl' greeting you seem to get all the time.
CARL GUNNARSSON: I guess that's from Madison.  Just a fun thing.  Been hearing that one for years.  Kind of fun.
Q. The penalty situation, how can you get back to where you were in previous rounds?
CARL GUNNARSSON: We just got to be disciplined.  We have two games here to feel out the refs.  We know their power play is real good, so we need to take another step.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT