NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: SHARKS v BLUES
May 24, 2016
Carl Gunnarsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Carl Gunnarsson. 

Q. Elimination game is nothing new for you guys in these playoffs. What is different about going into a game like that?
CARL GUNNARSSON: Yeah, no, it's a little extra tension, for sure. Everyone knows what's at stake. Every playoff game is a little bit like that. But just ramps it up a little bit.

Q. How do you calm the nerves? 
CARL GUNNARSSON: Drink some tea, take it easy (laughter). 
I don't know. I think every guy has their own little thing. Like you said, it's nothing new for us. We've been doing it twice here these playoffs. I think everyone knows how to get ready for these kind of games. 

Q. What have you learned about what you need to do on the ice?
CARL GUNNARSSON: Well, I think not getting away from our system is a big thing. Just playing our way. We've seen that in games, too. As soon as we get away from it, it's not working for us. 
We just got to stick together and keep reminding ourselves whatever we do when we're playing well, you got to keep doing it. Believe in what we do. 

Q. Are you perhaps better able to do that than you were at the start of the playoffs, given the experience you've now had?
CARL GUNNARSSON: I guess we got the experience now, but we're playing a different team. Everything's kind of new in that way, too. So I guess you learn from it every day. 
It's tough to bring all the experience from different kind of settings and different kind of games into this. But take the good stuff, I guess. 

Q. Knowing how good their power play is, are you taking too many penalties?
CARL GUNNARSSON: I think we did that, what was that, two or three games ago. We had a bunch of unnecessary slashings, retaliation penalties. We've been better at it. 
Seeing their power play now, it's so hot, we got to try to stay out of the box as best as we can.

Q. After Game4, Hitch talked about how you caught your game. How do you catch your game again?
CARL GUNNARSSON: I don't think last night was a bad game. I think we played worse in this series than that. Sometimes it's about timing of goals, when they come, momentum. That can change a game like that pretty quick. 

Q. What will we learn about the Blues tomorrow night?
CARL GUNNARSSON: What would you learn? 

Q. What do you expect we'll all learn about your team tomorrow night?
CARL GUNNARSSON: I think we've shown that throughout the season and throughout these playoffs that, you know, we never give up. We keep on coming no matter if we're down, if we're up. We never give up. There's still a chance. If we take this one tomorrow, then we bring it back home, which the ball is in our court again. 
We all believe in ourselves. Hopefully I think whatever happens after this season, I think people will say that the Blues in 2016 were the team that never gave up. 

Q. Do you still feel that way on home ice?
CARL GUNNARSSON: What I mean is have bad games, bad periods in games. The way you bounce back from it, that shows what kind of team you are. I think we've been doing a great job of that. Playing bad in a game, all right, that one's done, move on to the next one, bounce back. I think we've been doing a good job of that all season. 

Q. What about the mindset? Does the team take off for San Jose with the same confidence you had earlier in the playoffs?
CARL GUNNARSSON: I think so. I haven't seen the guys yet. As soon as you step on the plane or into the room with the boys, that's when you have that good feeling. 
I think we have that almost every day throughout the whole playoffs, good confidence in the group. I don't think anything's going to change there for tomorrow. 
Thank you. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT