U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2007
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  You must be very pleased with that. 
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  I've been on the receiving end of, you know, defeats from him in the other Slams.  Yeah, just the whole nature of the match - not only the level of play but the support, the atmosphere out on a big court, it was fantastic. 
 So, yeah, it's good.  I appreciate the situation, this being my last tournament. 

 Q.  How long has it been since you've played that well? 
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, no, it's been a while.  I think I played very, very well against Moya at Wimbledon.  But, you know, besides that, I wouldn't say there's a lot else to talk about this year. 
 So, yeah, it's fantastic.  I think that's probably been one of the frustrating aspects, is that I've been able to play, you know, very well in practice.  But, you know, it's an overall consistency thing.  I think that can be dictated by, you know, my body, some of the back issues I've had.  But I felt great out there. 

 Q.  Must have been nice not to have gone out in a straight-sets defeat today. 
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, no, it is.  It's difficult.  You know, he is a tough guy to play, as you guys have seen better than most. 
 But I think the conditions played a big part.  You look at all the other matches we've played certainly in slams, it's been so much heavier.  That gives him such a margin for error, I think most importantly on his second serve.  When it's heavy, it's cold, I think in both Australia and Paris, he can be so aggressive with his second serve.  It's really never going to fly. 
 Whereas today, with me being aggressive, looking to chip-charge, he starts to feel that a little bit more.  The ball starts flying, he starts to serve double-faults.  There's a cumulative effect, start having an impact and start making him think a little bit. 
 I think add to that I was -- the balls on the court help me a little bit on my serve, give me a little bit extra.  You know, that combination was very, very good today. 

 Q.  Is there any sense that there's a release, having done what you've done, your approach is slightly different? 
 TIM HENMAN:  Well, I don't -- I think in some respects it would be easy to say yes.  I think in other respects, you know, I've been able to play, you know, with a lot of freedom over the last couple years.  I definitely reflect on, you know, early, middle parts of my career where I was almost out there trying, you know, too hard.  There was sort of self-inflicted pressure. 
 No, you know, I think I look at the way, you know, I played a lot of tournaments in 2004, you know, I was playing in a similar fashion.  But there's no doubt, you know, when I've struggled with my injuries, then it can be frustrating, and that's always going to have a knock-on effect of your sort of state of mind on the court. 
 But I feel really good physically on the court.  I was obviously, you know, going to enjoy it mentally.  I played really well, as well. 

 Q.  Compared to other wins in your career, what degree of satisfaction do you get from this? 
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I mean, you know, if I had lost in straight sets today, I don't think it would have been the biggest deal in the world.  But having said that, yeah, to play against him of all people, having lost to him on four of five occasions, and play that well, it's great.  It certainly leaves -- yeah, sort of leaves a good taste.  And it's something I can build on definitely.  Because I am, I'm keen -- I think when you say I've got nothing to lose and a lot to gain, I think that's spot on.  I feel like I want to play these last two events and give them everything.  You know, if I do play well and go out on a high, whatever that means, it will mean a lot to me. 
 But on the other, you know, side of the coin, you know, if I hadn't won today and things didn't go according to plan at Davis Cup, it's not suddenly going to tarnish my career in any way, shape or form. 
 So, yeah, I think with that attitude, it could bode pretty well. 

 Q.  Can I add on a fashion note?  JP will be spinning in his grave seeing you after such a good win wearing Cambridge blue. 
 TIM HENMAN:  Oh, yeah.  I can't please everyone (smiling).  Blame adidas. 

 Q.  Earlier today Marat Safin said that when he looks back on his victory here, he kind of thinks, So what?  It was in the past, nobody cares.  I'm wondering what you think of that when you look back on your career?  Do you think people do care? 
 TIM HENMAN:  I care, yeah.  Yeah, I care about my career.  I think there's a few others that do, as well. 
 But I'm not quite sure what the point Marat is trying to convey there. 

 Q.  He's saying he doesn't want to live in the past; that you have to live in the present. 
 TIM HENMAN:  Sure, absolutely.  But you can still be proud of your past achievements.  But, you know, from a sports point of view, you're always living for today and trying to do your best today.  Maybe that's what he was trying to get across. 

 Q.  You will play against Jo-Wilfried Tsonga. 
 TIM HENMAN:  I saw him play a little bit before the grass court tournaments in England.  He was impressive.  He played some great tennis. 
 I don't think he's too dissimilar from Tursunov.  He's a great athlete, serves big, hits the ball aggressively from the baseline.  But I think, you know, if I can play in the same fashion as I did today, play at the same level, then I think I'll create opportunities.  I think I'll have a good chance. 

 Q.  Has the back settled down a little bit? 
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's good.  I think after I lost in Cincinnati, you know, I was probably hitting every other day, then just doing a lot of work in the gym.  That's the best way for it to settle down. 
 I felt great on the court.  And I think it will be fine tomorrow.  It's just, you know, I understand once you start playing back-to-back, the work load increases, it can get sore.  But I think I should be all right. 

 Q.  What do you have to do when you go off court?  What have you had done to you? 
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, just straightaway get on the bike and start to, you know, loosen things up, then a lot of stretching.  Then, you know, pretty long massage, a lot more stretching.  A lot more stretching tomorrow, just to keep my lower back, you know, the joints, the muscles, as loose as possible.  I think I should be okay. 

 Q.  Since you've announced your retirement, have you had many messages from other people within the game or people that aren't around any more, Andre, Pete? 
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I mean, obviously a lot of -- I think most of the people are aware of it.  Most of the guys in the locker room are aware of it.  Yeah, I've had a lot of very favorable reactions, which is nice.  You know, I'm sure I'll get more and more when I'm sort of back home and stuff. 

 Q.  Any ones that surprised you? 
 TIM HENMAN:  I think there's a few surprised that I'm retiring now.  No, none that really stand out particularly. 

 Q.  As someone who has had to endure your share of aches and pains as you've gotten older, is it worrisome to see a young star like Nadal hobbling so much at this point in the season? 
 TIM HENMAN:  I just think it's the nature of the beast.  When you're built like that, you play like that, when you're playing on hard courts, I think it's almost inevitable.  And, you know, he's got to manage it as best he can, as I'm sure he will. 
 You know, I've had a few niggles, but I look at my career, and since '95, I guess, I only missed two slams, missed very few tournaments.  I think that's something that I did manage very, very well in my career.  I think I'm fortunate that my sort of body type and my game is relatively stress-free. 
 You know, Nadal is a different story.  His game is physically so demanding.  He's putting so much strain on his body.  He had stress fractures in his foot, didn't he?  He's got obviously tendinitis in the knees, which I think a lot of guys are suffering with.  You've got to manage it as best you can. 
 You know that that's always going to be -- that will always play a part in his career. 

 Q.  10 years ago when the tennis world, as usual, gathered here for the US Open, word came in about the tragic death of Princess Di.  Can you reflect on the impact it had for you. 
 TIM HENMAN:  It was obviously the most tragic circumstances.  She was buried on my birthday, I think, the 6th of September.  I think we'll all remember that.  Obviously it being my birthday, I'm going to remember it more clearly.  I think I was in Tashkent at the time playing a tournament. 
 Just to watch the pictures, I think it, you know, was an incredibly difficult day for everyone, let alone her nearest and dearest.  She will always be remembered, that's for sure. 

 Q.  What do you think we can expect of Andy Murray at this tournament? 
 TIM HENMAN:  I think, you know, it's difficult to say.  He's obviously had a really difficult last three or four months, however long it's been.  But I think, you know, he's been saying some encouraging things.  He's been practicing with an attitude that I think is encouraging.  And I think that's the most important thing. 
 I think, you know, if he can play well at this tournament, it would be nice.  I think he looks like he's moving in the right direction, and that's what he needs to do.  I'm not saying when you're injured you're wasting time.  That's unfortunate.  But you've got to make sure that you are moving in the right direction at every opportunity.  An he definitely looks like he's doing that. 

 Q.  You practiced with Roger Federer last week.  What did you talk to each other about?  Could you share that with us? 
 TIM HENMAN:  What were we talking about?  Restaurants, I think, where we eat, food in New York.  Hotel, I think.  Uhm, not a lot to do with tennis I don't think.  Tiger Woods a little bit.  That's about it (smiling). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT