WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2003
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Tim, please. 


Q.  What did the adrenaline rush feel like at the end?

TIM HENMAN:  Very, very good.  Yeah, absolutely.  The last four games - well, not just the last four games - but certainly with my level, finishing off the way it did, you know, the crowd's support, for me, that's what tennis is all about.  You know, it is a phenomenal atmosphere to play in.  It's much appreciated.

Q.  Is it getting better every year, the participation, the expectation?

TIM HENMAN:  Say that again. 

Q.  The actual level of participation from the crowd and the expectation, is it getting bigger every year?

TIM HENMAN:  I think, you know, the crowd support has always been pretty incredible here.  But, you know, they choose their moments, as well.  You know, getting pretty late there.  Everyone's eager to finish the match off.  You know, they gave me such a lift.  You know, it's a pleasure to play in an atmosphere like that.  But, you know, with regards to expectations, I don't think they've changed.

Q.  You said Saturday night how important it was for you to make a good start. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.

Q.  Have you played a better first set than that?

TIM HENMAN:  No, probably not.  Just the level of my play to 6-2, 3-1 was as good as it gets really.   It was important to stamp my authority on the match.  But, you know, it's amazing how things can change.  The only shot in that game that I question is the drop volley.  It wasn't that I missed it, but I don't think it was the right shot at 30-All.  And on the other points, he hit three return winners.  I had Love-30 in the next game, a couple of breakpoints.  I missed a forehand up the line that I shouldn't have done.  You know, with missing probably one or two points, the whole momentum of the match changed.  You know, it was pretty nip-and-tuck for the rest of that set.  He hits one slightly fortunate return in the breaker, we're sitting down at set all.  I'd have to say that was pretty depressing.  But, you know, I had to be strong mentally and say to myself, "Well, we started off a best-of-five set match, now it's best-of-three, and I still fancy my chances." 

Q.  Do you think you're mentally stronger this year than you've ever been?

TIM HENMAN:  I think with experience, I think in these types of conditions, with the atmosphere, I think that helps me.  I think it showed, you know, in the third set, because I think it would have been easy to become a little bit negative, having been up a break of serve on a number of occasions, and not being able to establish the break.  You know, on a couple of occasions when I lost my serve, I said, "I lost my serve.  It's no big deal.  We're on serve.  I'll keep breaking him."  That's exactly what I did.

Q.  David just said he had a stomach injury which meant he couldn't serve properly, at times he felt he was touch and go.  Did you notice anything different in his serve?

TIM HENMAN:  I mean, I don't think he serves particularly quick at the best of times.  But, you know, I think, given the conditions and his style of play, you know, the serve is never going to be a major factor for himself.  But he still made life plenty difficult for me.

Q.  Do you think this serve-and-volley stuff will catch on? 

TIM HENMAN:  Doesn't seem like it, does it (smiling)? 

Q.  Nice to see it on court, though?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's nice when you can actually execute that type of tactic.  You know, for large parts of the match, it did, it served me well.  I just felt that when it got later and obviously a lot colder, you know, the conditions  -- you had to play to the conditions.  I don't think serving and volleying at every opportunity on my second serve was the right play.  If I was going to stay back, it was important I made the transition of still being aggressive, you know, getting to net on my second or third shot, not just getting into baseline rallies.  I think that's what I did very well at the end. 

Q.  All those breaks in the third set you pulled out, probably your best serve of the match.  Where did that one come from?

TIM HENMAN:  It was a pretty simple mindset that I said at that stage I was going to throw it up and hit it as hard as I could (smiling).  That's pretty much what happened.  I was happy with the result of it.  You know, still then, I think, was that 6-5, 30-All? 

Q.  Yes. 

TIM HENMAN:  Then the next point was still, you know, pretty important.  I guessed right at the net, made a good lunging forehand volley.  Need a few more of those. 

Q.  How much can you take from the way that you came through a set like that, that third set?  That's not an everyday set. 

TIM HENMAN:  No.

Q.  You probably play one of those every six months or something.  How much of a lift can you get from that to go further in the match but also to go further in the tournament and beyond?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  You know, you could probably say there's two ways of looking at that.  you know, if you're losing your serve three times, you could probably look at it negatively.  I think in the circumstances, I'll certainly only take huge positives out of that because I was , I didn't feel like I did a lot wrong physically.  But, you know, mentally, it was water off a duck's back.  I got on with it and kept breaking him.  I think I served for the set at 5-4.  I hit six first serves.  Still lost my serve.  You know, that's a time when you tip your hat, say, "Okay, see if you can hold serve."  He wasn't able to do that.  When it came down to it the next game, I said, "I'm going to do the right things, play one point at a time."  I finished it off.  There's a lot of satisfaction in that. 

Q.  Physically, you've been telling us everything is okay.  Coming into this match, there must have been some mental questions you wanted to ask yourself, "Can I beat somebody like Nalbandian, higher ranked?" 

TIM HENMAN:  I was just  -- I couldn't remember the scores from the last time we played.  But in Toronto, I lost 4-6, 7-6, 7-5.  In Basel I lost 3-6, 7-6, 6-4.  Today when I win the first 6-2 and lose the second 7-6, it would have been pretty easy to think, "Here we go again."  But I think probably the belief I have here, you know, I told myself that this is going to be a different story.  Pleased to say it was.

Q.  How will it affect your Tuesday not knowing yet who your next opponent is?

TIM HENMAN:  It will be great (smiling).  I'll enjoy hitting balls for 30, 40 minutes tomorrow, then watching them, you know, slug out a fourth and hopefully a fifth set. 

Q.  There's no guarantee it will be Grosjean.  If it is, can we dismiss what happened at Queen's because of the way your game has progressed since then?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I'd like to think  -- you know, he takes confidence from that, I'm sure, because he played really well.  But I think it's fair to say from my point of view, my game has come along massively.  If I do play Grosjean, I still go in there appreciating that it's going to be a tough match against a world class player.  But I'll go in with a lot of confidence.

Q.  Ferrero, if it was to be him?

TIM HENMAN:  Again, you know, I think, you know  -- I think a lot of people would perhaps categorize him as a clay court specialist.  I think that's so unjust, because you look at the way he's played on hard courts, indoors, and now on grass.  He looks so comfortable.  You know, I think he fits the mould of Andre Agassi-type player because he's so quick around the court, returns well, and his groundstrokes speak for themselves.

Q.  That third set you said you were looking at quite positively, even though there were breaks of serve.  Against an established returner like Grosjean and Ferrero, are you worried that much about sort of surrendering your serve?

TIM HENMAN:  I think if you're looking at the way these guys return, obviously they return great.  But then, you know, if they were standing up and serving 25, 30 aces in a match, then I would be concerned.  But just given the conditions, I feel like I can break every service game because, you know, the players are not able to just stand up and, you know, get cheap points.  You know, the same with Grosjean or Ferrero.  I'll be in every service game.

Q.  Do you have any preferences?

TIM HENMAN:  Not really, no.

Q.  You played against Ferrero in the French.  Mixed it up really well in the first set. 

TIM HENMAN:  I did, yeah.

Q.  How do you think you'll take him on grass?

TIM HENMAN:  I think I can still be more aggressive, obviously, on a grass court than I can on a clay court.  I have to be a little bit selective.  No point in giving him a constant rhythm.  You know, I think that's playing into his hands a little bit.  But certainly I'm not going to beat him from the back of the court.  I need to be aggressive.

Q.  Accepting you're probably going to say, "I'm going to take one match at a time"... 

TIM HENMAN:  Why ask the question? 

Q.  The No. 2 seed is no longer here.  It's opened up, hasn't it?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah. 

Q.  You know it has. 

TIM HENMAN:  Absolutely.

Q.  How excited are you about the opportunity you helped create?

TIM HENMAN:  Great opportunity.  I couldn't be happier to be in my position right now.  But I know that if my level drops, if my performance drops, then, you know, I'll lose.  But if I keep playing the way I am, keep doing the right things, I've got a good opportunity. 

Q.  Did you notice that, the score flashed up?

TIM HENMAN:  Philippoussis, Agassi? 

Q.  Yes. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.  Absolutely. 

Q.  Good to see Philippoussis in form. 

TIM HENMAN:  Do you think so (smiling)?  I want everyone to be in terrible form. 

Q.  Have you beaten him at Wimbledon before?

TIM HENMAN:  No.  We've only played once, haven't we?  I lost, 6-4 in the fifth. 

Q.  Will you be looking for an earlier match on Wednesday?

TIM HENMAN:  I don't make those decisions.  So I don't worry about it.

Q.  What would you prefer?

TIM HENMAN:  Depends actually.  I actually felt, in all honesty, I came here today pretty relaxed thinking that there was a good chance I wouldn't play.  I was happy to be on third.  You're not actually too concerned.  Everyone else is kind of on edge, "Are we going to go on?  Are the covers going to come off?"  I was pretty happy the weather stayed so good.  If it's going to be a clear day, there isn't going to be rain, then I'd like to be first.  But I'm not angry about it (smiling). 

Q.  You're going to feel it in a Grand Slam, a comfortable feeling in a Grand Slam, things are going your way, do you get that sort of warm glow?

TIM HENMAN:  Swings and roundabouts, isn't it?  I can say, for a change, it's not me that hasn't finished a match and is coming back the next day.  You know, does it really make a big difference in the grand scheme of things?  I don't think so.  But it's nice to have got the job done today. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT