PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 9, 2003
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim. 


Q.  How is the baby?

TIM HENMAN:  She's fine.  She's sleeping.  Long may that continue - 7 till 7 the other night.  No complaints. 

Q.  How old is she?

TIM HENMAN:  She is nearly five months.

Q.  So when did you come over here and what have you been doing since, Tim?

TIM HENMAN:  We came over a day earlier than originally planned.  We got in on Wednesday night.  So we've just been getting in plenty of practice, obviously enjoying the conditions and the facilities.  It's been great.  It's good to be back to a place where I had a lot of good memories from last year. 

Q.  I suppose the inevitable question about the shoulder. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, no, I really couldn't be happier.  You know, been practicing twice a day.  Had a couple of long sessions.  You know, hitting things in anger without any second thoughts.  You know, that's a great feeling.  I really do feel that, you know, I'm just out there in practice concentrating on my game and competing without any worries.  And that is  -- you know, there's an element of relief there, as well.  But it is great to just be having fun again, because it's been a long time.  I was just saying on the TV that, you know, the last time that I really was playing without any sort of second thoughts was probably in Toronto, and that's in August.  So, yeah, pleased with the way things have progressed. 

Q.  Draws don't get any easier.  This is a big week for you, isn't it?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it is.  I spoke to a couple of the others yesterday.  You know, you look at the depth of a Masters series.  You say draw-wise it's sort of much stronger than a Slam because there just don't seem to be any easier sections.  Every section is just so strong.  You know, on the other side of the coin, you know, having made final here, there's talk of defending those points.  Of course, I'm aware of that, but that's really not in the forefront of my mind, because just with the nature of the way I played 12 months ago, it's probably inevitable that my ranking will dip a little bit.  But, as I said, in the big scheme of things, looking at the next five years, you know, if I have a dip in the rankings in the short-term, I know that the way I've been playing, I'll continue to do all the right things.  It won't be long before my ranking goes back up to the sharp end, if you like. 

Q.  Not all of us are as intimately aware of the course of your career as the gentlemen in the first row.  What was it that was distracting you until around Toronto? 

TIM HENMAN:  Distracting me? 

Q.  You said, "Last time I played without any second thoughts."  What was it?

TIM HENMAN:  My shoulder.  I hurt my shoulder the following week really in Cincinnati and then it sort of progressively got worse and worse.  Just with sort of the nature of the events that I had coming up, I never really gave it long enough at that time to rest and recover.  That was then the reason why I had an operation in November. 

Q.  With the time off that you had, can you understand someone like Pete, who is finding it  -- he's just become a father, as well.  He's finding it perhaps to put that to one side and get back into the swing of things. 

TIM HENMAN:  I can understand from his point of view, but certainly not from my point of view.  This is purely my opinion, I've got nothing to base it on, but I'm sure with just the amount that he's achieved and the number of years that he's played, you know, right at the top of the game, it probably has taken its toll.  You know, if he doesn't want to play again, good for him.  You know, he's got  -- he's the one that can make that decision.  But, you know, from my point of view, I feel that, you know, the whole sort of episode of the last four or five months, you know, it's been a huge high and a huge low sort of thing on a personal and professional basis.  But I honestly feel that I've got so much more to achieve in the game, and I've still got, you know, a massive amount of  -- a huge desire and passion to keep improving.  That's why you look at someone like Agassi, who I think is 33 this year, and seems like he's playing better than ever.  You know, I don't see there's any reason why my enthusiasm won't be at the same level at the same age. 

Q.  But you wonder when a professional athlete who has been used to playing and playing all the time, suddenly you stop; when you stop, does part of you say, "I'm not getting up at 6 in the morning"? 

TIM HENMAN:  No, not really.  Not for me, no.  I can see with Pete's personality how, you know, having a few months at home he perhaps could become, you know, quite comfortable.  But I think, again, with what he's achieved obviously adds to that.  No, as I said to you guys before, when I was training in San  Diego, you know, watching the Australian Open, then when I was back home watching Davis Cup, sitting at home for another couple of months was the last thing on my mind.  I was as eager as ever to get back out, you know, get competing.  That's, again, when you take that a stage further, I'm back competing in tournaments, just to be playing pain-free, focusing on my matches without any second thoughts about my shoulder, you know, is a great feeling to have.  You know, I'll certainly enjoy that and then take it the next stage further, getting back to winning ways.

Q.  What kind of operation was it?

TIM HENMAN:  I had a problem with my bursa.  Basically the inflammation in my bursa had sort of come and gone for a number of months.  I had aggravated it so many time, it never really dispersed.  Then they go arthroscopically in and wash it out.

Q.  Did you have the operation in this country or in another?

TIM HENMAN:  In another.

Q.  I'm interested to know why you chose to train in San  Diego. 

TIM HENMAN:  Because my coach lives in San  Diego.

Q.  What's his name?

TIM HENMAN:  Larry Stefanki. 

Q.  Have you spoken to Pete in the last couple months?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I spoke to him a couple of times in January before we went out to San  Diego.

Q.  Did you get any idea?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I was very much under the impression at that stage, and he sort of said, that he was ready to start playing in San  Jose.  You know, been practicing with Paul.  I spoke to Paul on a few occasions.  Obviously, his plans have changed.

Q.  What kind of lasting, I don't want to say legacy, but what kind of mark will Michael Chang leave on the tour?

TIM HENMAN:  You know, I think when he was at his prime, just  -- I think people, again, sort of take things for granted.  They probably took for granted, you know, his consistency of performing so well.  You know, he was No. 2 in the world for a number of years.  It seemed sort of pretty effortless.  Having said that, you look at the way he played, I think he certainly maximized his abilities, capabilities.  I'm sure he's one that when he hangs up his racquet, he'll have absolutely no regrets.

Q.  As a fixture in the second week of Wimbledon, do you feel that serve and volley guys like yourself are getting thinner on the ground? 

TIM HENMAN:  Absolutely, yeah.  It seems like, you know, if Pete is not going to play any more, that's another one gone.  I think it realistically is probably harder and harder to play that style of game because on the one hand ,I think the quality of the returning in the baseline game has improved, but I think the speed of the courts and the balls, if anything, is getting slower still.  That just makes it harder to do. 

Q.  Does that bother you a bit, being that you're a serve and volleyer?

TIM HENMAN:  You'd like it to be a bit quicker, wouldn't you?  But, again, you just have to find a way to adjust your game.  You know, I think here, it's still relatively slow.  But whatever style of play you're going to play, you're going to have to do it well. 

Q.  Conversely, would that lead you to believe that guys like Nalbandian and Lleyton, who play Wimbledon from the baseline, are the thin end of the wedge? 

TIM HENMAN:  I think the Wimbledon sort of issue last year was  -- I felt that was a little bit worrying because, obviously, grass is meant to be, you know, a predominantly serve and volley surface, a faster, lower-bouncing court.  You look at the quarterfinal lineup, the styles of play that there were, you know, it was amazing how slow and how high-bouncing the courts were.  It was emphasized in the results.  They're all very good players, don't get me wrong.  But I played Sa in the quarters, and there was Malisse, Nalbandian, certainly more baseline players than serve and volleyers.

Q.  So that would be a function of just the way grass was last year?  An insidious plot?

TIM HENMAN:  They're making changes with the grass itself, maybe the balls, I don't really know. 

Q.  At the same time, the way you played here last year, does that sort of under-pin your confidence that once you are fully fit ?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, and that's why.  Certainly the way I've been playing, you know, if I was coming back, having problems with my game, then that's when you perhaps have a few doubts.  But just the way that I have been playing, that's why I've got absolutely no doubts that given a period of time back playing, a run of tournaments, no doubts that I'll get back to where I was, you know, probably Wimbledon last year and then move on from there. 

Q.  Can you talk about an American serve and volleyer, Taylor Dent, your impressions of him as a player, his potential?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, he's someone that really hasn't come on in leaps and bounds.  He's got really a big game, big serve.  He's one of the guys that likes to chip and charge and get to the net at most opportunities.  It's good to see that style of play because I think it's exciting for people to watch.  It's a good contrast against the other baseline players.  We need a few more like him. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT