US OPEN
August 28, 2002
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim.  
 
 
Q.  The important thing from our point of view, how is the shoulder holding up?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I mean, it feels okay.  I was obviously, you know, a little bit unsure, a little bit concerned going into the match how it would react if we got into a long match.  So obviously winning so convincingly was helpful.  You know, I can feel it now.  I wouldn't say it's sore, but it will be interesting just to see how things are tomorrow.  But, you know, I'm optimistic that it should be okay.  
 
Q.  From that point of view, a swift hour and a half workout probably is just what the doctor ordered. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  It was, very much so.  You know, I've been trying to push it more and more in practice.  I haven't practiced more than an hour at any stage really.  That's where there was a little bit of uncertainty.  But, as you say, you know, to play for an hour and a half and, you know, be fairly aggressive with my serve and different shots, it was a good exercise for my shoulder and obviously a good first-round win. 
 
Q.  Is it a case of getting better day to day?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I feel very much as if that's been the case, because still on Friday last week, it was still feeling pretty sore.  I felt like I lost a lot of confidence in it, as well.  I was, you know, a little bit scared to make different  moves that had been hurting. But, as I said, the more I've been able to push it a little bit in practice and keep getting the continuous treatment, it definitely feels like it's getting better.  I can't say I necessarily agree with Wednesday starts, but it definitely helped me. 
 
Q.  When was the first time you actually served full out in practice?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I felt yesterday was, you know, just on and off.  You know, I was trying to go for the serve.  Again, it's sort of trying to instill that confidence and that belief in it because it was pretty sore in Indianapolis.  You know, I think it hopefully will get stronger as each day goes by. 
 
Q.  Do you know enough about what it is to know whether this is the kind of thing that will heal quickly or if it might dog you for a while?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it probably does need, you know, some extended rest.  Having seen the improvement that it's made in the last week while I've been practicing, I've got my fingers crossed that it won't hinder me.  As you say, you're always trying to work with these types of things.  I do, I feel happy with the progress it's made.  But I think the rehab and then the continuing sort of strengthening process is something that I'm going to have to pay pretty careful attention to I should think for, you know, the rest of my career.  Because I think I perhaps hadn't done enough of the strength work post Wimbledon.  You know, it caught up with me a little bit. 
 
Q.  Are you taking painkillers at all?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Just antiinflammatories really. 
 
Q.  What sort of treatment have you had?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Just a lot of icing, ultrasound, stim, that type of thing, massage to try and loosen up all the areas, those types of things. 
 
Q.  You're obviously aware of high-profile players who played on with shoulder problems, maybe taken it a bit too far.  Are you conscious of that?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I was very conscious of that when it was so bad the day after I won in Indianapolis.  I sort of understand the shoulder a bit better.  That's why I was keen to have an MRI just to put my mind at rest.  You know, when you're talking of rotator cuffs, it's not really a great  -- not really two words that you want to hear.  But, you know, my shoulder was inflamed.  I had a little bit of tendonitis.  I had inflammation of the bursa.  As far as tears or anything like that, that wasn't the case.  
 
Q.  Do you think there's anything you can attribute to the fact that so many players have been unable to finish the matches here? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I mean, it's bizarre that there have been so many.  But I just feel that it's the ongoing wear and tear.  You talk about seasons, and we are let's say in the eighth or ninth month of this season.  But the season never really stops, you know, it just keeps rolling into one.  We could be in Australia and everyone would say that it's the first month of the year, everyone should be fresh.  When the years roll into one, I think it's inevitable that time to time people are going to get these types of injuries.  Yeah, it's something that probably needs to be monitored. 
 
Q.  Have you ever thought of taking a three-month break like after the Australian Open?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I mean, that's not really possible I don't think if you want to compete at the top of the game.  But I think your answer to that is to try and get your schedule as  -- to pay real attention to your schedule, to make sure that you don't suddenly have five or six weeks in a row, because if you're playing a lot and winning matches, I think that's when you're going to ask for trouble. 
 
Q.  Agassi and Hewitt have two of the best returns in the game.  I wondered if you could maybe compare them a little bit, what makes them so tough. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I mean, they are great returners.  I think they're slightly different.  Agassi I think is probably the more aggressive returner because he takes the ball a little bit earlier, probably hits the ball a little bit harder off the return.  Having said that, I think Hewitt will probably, you know, get more balls back in play.  But they do both return very, very well. 
 
Q.  Anybody else belong in that group as far as the toughest you faced?
 
TIM HENMAN:  There are guys that can return very, very well on given days.  I think over a long period, those two stand above the rest of us.  
 
Q.  The problems you've had in the last couple weeks, has it sort of reminded you how much you actually love this sport, the injury threatening you, maybe taking it for granted?
 
TIM HENMAN:  You totally take it for granted.  That's always the way.  I think I've always trained very, very hard and worked very hard.  But one of my sort of shortcomings in that area is sort of the stretching and that sort of process which is probably equally as important.  Certainly when you have problems, it kind of gives you a chance to reassess what needs to be done.  That's something that I've had to pay, you know, particular attention to in the last couple of weeks.  Again, as I said, with the rehab and strengthening process, that's going to have to be maintained. 
 
Q.  What do you think about Lleyton Hewitt's feud with the ATP about getting fined in Cincinnati for not doing an interview, saying next year he'll probably cut back on his schedule, only play the peak matches, the Grand Slam matches, tournaments before then?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it's  -- I think that whole scenario was probably a lot more to do with bad communication from both sides.  I think from someone that knows him relatively well, I just am sort of surprised the problems he has because he's always, you know, a good guy to be around in the locker room.  Certainly for a young guy I think he speaks very well.  You know, he's perhaps said a couple of things that he regrets, but who hasn't?  I'm surprised from the media's point of view that he's had such a difficult time. 
 
Q.  Do you think there will be a growing number of top players who will say, "We're playing too many tournaments, let's work something out with the ATP to cut down"? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, again, it's the choice that you have to make, isn't it?  If the ranking system is as it is, then to really compete, to give yourself the best chance of being at the top of the game, you want to take advantage of the opportunities.  If you then cut back on your schedule, unless you play exceptionally well in the tournaments that you play, in a way you could be making life more difficult for yourself.  
 
Q.  Next opponent, looking further on, do you think they'll look at you and see you as a bit of a wounded animal, an opportunity to exploit a weakness?  Will that change your attitude maybe?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it's perhaps changed my attitude a little bit because, you know, at the beginning, probably seven days ago, I was very, very unsure whether I would play, to what level I could play.  And that's why, as we talk about taking it for granted, I was happy to be out there today just feeling like I had a chance of competing.  I think that helped with me demeanor, my mental approach.  I felt like for a first round, I was pretty relaxed and comfortable with what was going on.  There wasn't too much that went against me.  But I felt like, you know, if things hadn't have gone my way, I would have been fairly calm and ready just to try and turn it around and do the best I could, whereas sometimes I think you can try a little bit too hard and put a little bit of extra pressure on yourself.  That really does more harm than good.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT