WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2002
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim. 


Q.  Are you very disappointed?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think that's stating the obvious in a situation like this. I think probably adding to the fact the other semifinal makes it a little bit more difficult.

Q.  Of the disappointments, is this less so or more so than the other three?

TIM HENMAN:  No, I think because of that reason, I think more so.  It was obviously a semifinal, but I think, you know, the person that came through the top half is definitely going to be the favorite for the final.  You know, I felt like it was going to be  -- you know, it was going to be a difficult match, but one I felt if I could get through, then perhaps I'd have a good chance in the final.

Q.  Can you give us the balance, from your end of the court, on whether it was that he played well or you played less well than you would have liked?

TIM HENMAN:  I think I'll give him all the credit he deserves.  Certainly the way that he plays and the way that he adapts his game to any surface, he is the best in the world.  And, again, today he proved that. 

Q.  In that form, can he be beaten on Sunday?

TIM HENMAN:  Of course he can be beaten.  You know, if sport were  -- if sport was a guaranteed thing then, you know, it wouldn't be as popular as it is.  He'll have to come out and prove it again.  Whoever he plays in the final obviously will be very, very motivated.  But I'm sure the odds are massively in his favor. 

Q.  He says that you can come back and win again.  Seems an obvious question, but you believe that, too, yeah?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah. 

Q.  What do you think maybe you would change, if anything?

TIM HENMAN:  I've got to improve.  It's as simple as that.  The better player won today, no question.  And it's not through lack of effort, but, you know, my game wasn't good enough today. 

Q.  You tried to mix it up quite a bit at different times, vary your game.  To what extent did you feel it was worth it and worked?

TIM HENMAN:  Well, as the score line suggests, not a lot did work, did it?  I certainly tried different tactics, different variations.  As I said, the bottom line is he's the better player.  And it's my job to go away and keep improving my game.

Q.  Lleyton talked about you reducing the pace of your first serve to get more in, not to have to serve so many second serves as being helpful.  To what extent was that working?

TIM HENMAN:  I think if you serve and volley against Hewitt in these type of conditions, unless you ace him, it's probably a negative because you're playing into his biggest strength:  his return of serve, and after return of serve his passing shots.  In a funny sort of thing, I think that the best way to beat him, when you look at the players he's lost to, it's almost like you want to  -- you almost want to border on being a little negative in the rallies, you keep the ball in play, because he doesn't  -- he's not the most aggressive or the hardest hitter from the baseline.  And when you get an opportunity, I think you try and end the point.  You obviously try and hit a winner, but you're going to make mistakes.  But I think that's probably the best way.  You wait for a short one and then you don't really want to hit an approach shot, because if you give him a chance to hit a passing shot, he'll hit it.  I think you have to just try and hit winners.

Q.  The way you played that game in the third set when you were down 4-5 to him, fantastic.  Don't you think you can play more games like that?

TIM HENMAN:  That's what I'm trying to say.  I think in a funny sort of way, the tactic that is most effective against him, you know, even on grass, even in the conditions that we're playing in today, it's almost like you've just got to stay at the baseline and give him no pace to work with.  When you get half an opportunity, you go for it.  You either make a mistake or you hit a winner.  If you try and play approach shots and then come in, win the point from the net, that doesn't work against him.

Q.  Aren't you afraid that Hewitt will rule tennis next couple of years, the way he played?

TIM HENMAN:  Am I afraid of that? 

Q.  Yes. 

TIM HENMAN:  No. 

Q.  Do you think he's able to rule tennis the next couple of years?

TIM HENMAN:  Well, he was No.  1 last year.  But I certainly don't think it's getting into a situation where he's going to dominate it, because there are too many good players out there.  As I said, he's setting the benchmark; he's best in the world.  That's the standard that others have to achieve. 

Q.  Presumably you look at people like Goran, who came back after a series of disappointments and won, to take comfort for yourself in terms of your coming back again to win Wimbledon. 

TIM HENMAN:  You know, use that as an example.  I'm always going to give it my best shot.  As soon as I don't enter the tournament, then you'll know that I don't believe I can win anymore.

Q.  When Andre Agassi lost to Pete Sampras in '99, he said, "He walks on water."  Is that the feeling you were left with today?

TIM HENMAN:  He played great.  All credit to him.  You know, he played phenomenally well, and he was too good for me.  It's as simple as that.

Q.  Was there one shot that particularly summed it up?

TIM HENMAN:  No.

Q.  Not the lob?

TIM HENMAN:  No, lots of good ones. 

Q.  I'm sure your motivation was sky high before the game.  Every time Lleyton Hewitt, when he came up with superb shots, did they actually demotivate you?

TIM HENMAN:  No.  You've got to keep fighting.  You've got to keep fighting to the last point.  As I said, you know, he was too good today.  He played some really good tennis.  You know, I tried different tactics.  I, you know, tried to work out different ways to adjust my game and adapt my game, and it wasn't good enough.  You know, that is the fundamentals of the sport.  You know, it doesn't hide from my disappointment about the outcome of the result.  But I gave it my best shot, and that's all you can ask for.

Q.  How much do his legs mean to his game?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, they're a massive asset for him, because he's so quick.  Once he gets to the ball, he's obviously so effective with his shots.  I think that probably puts, you know, a little extra pressure on his opponents. 

Q.  Just listening to you tonight gives another indication of how much these championships mean to you.  Is that part of it?

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.

Q.  Does it hurt more when you lose here than anywhere else?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think so, just because of the nature of this tournament and how much it does mean to me.

Q.  There's so much expectation on you, would it be helpful if there were less pressure from the public?

TIM HENMAN:  Again, you know, what can I do about that?  You know, what can  -- you know, perhaps if I could control something like that, then I would worry about it.  Because it's out of my control...

Q.  It's there. 

TIM HENMAN:  It's there.  I tend not to worry about it because there's nothing I can do about it.  Like it or not, it's always going to be there.  I just have to concentrate on the things that I can control. 

Q.  Time and again obviously we see the situation where the country is backing you, there's tremendous support.  To your great credit, you got through, got through some really tough matches.  Then the falling short deep into the second week.  How yourself do you deal with that within you?

TIM HENMAN:  Well, I certainly, you know, can't say that it gets any easier.  But having said that, I think there's a pretty simple way of looking at it.  And certainly in the next few days when I reflect on the last fortnight, I certainly know that I've given it my best shot.  I couldn't have tried any harder.  And that's good enough with me.  I'm sure to others that that won't be good enough.  But, you know, having said that, that I don't think should detract from the way I feel about it.

Q.  So you still have a lot of inner pride within yourself?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I think if I came off the court and said, "Oh, I didn't try today," that's when you would certainly, you know, have to have some question marks about yourself.  But that's never been the case. 

Q.  Greg Rusedski aside, you're the only one who has made it out of the Brits.  Can you explain why you've succeeded, where so many others have failed? 

TIM HENMAN:  Not exactly.  I think it's a question that comes up a lot to do with this sport in this country, and fortunately it's not my job to try and put that right. 

Q.  Last year you said you didn't watch the final.  I presume you have no intention of watching this final either?

TIM HENMAN:  Not really, no.

Q.  Do you know what you'll do?

TIM HENMAN:  No.

Q.  Certainly the last five, six years, and most of the time you've been coming here, you don't lose to people that are what you might call outsiders really.  The semis you've had, two against Pete, Goran in a sort of magical year for him, and now the world No.  1 who is showing he's the best player in the world.  You can't reproach yourself that you're losing to people you should beat.  You don't lose to nobodies. 

TIM HENMAN:  I would agree with you.  Looking at my game in the big picture, I've obviously got to get better at other tournaments because I think, you know, my performances are definitely getting better, and my results have stated.  But if I've played as consistently week in, week out as I do year in, year out here, you know, then my ranking would go even higher. 

Q.  If Nalbandian gets through to the final, I believe it will be his first appearance on Centre Court in his life.  What would you suggest he do to cope with that?

TIM HENMAN:  I think, you know, the contrast between playing on Court  1 and Centre Court is fairly minimal.  I don't think it's going to be such a big shock.  I'm sure he's played on a lot of big courts throughout the world.  But having said that, I think you're right, it's going to be a little bit surprising if you get through to the final of a Slam and you've never been on the Centre Court. 

Q.  Can we see an even stronger Tim Henman next year?

TIM HENMAN:  I hope so.

Q.  Do you have a message for the people on Henman Hill?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, they've been incredible.  They are certainly part of the reason why I'll, you know, keep coming back for as long as I feel I can win, because the support here is incredible.  It's second to none.  You know, I'll probably never be able to thank them enough.  But they are massively appreciated. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT