WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2002
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim. 


Q.  Obviously very pleased. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, you know, it's another win, the most important thing obviously.  I definitely give  -- you know, I gave Sa a lot of credit for his game beforehand, and I certainly give him even more credit afterwards because I think he played some really good tennis, made life very difficult for me.  But, as I said, it's another good one to get through.

Q.  Is it fair to say those final two sets were possibly your best of the tournament so far?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I played  -- you know, I definitely played better.  I think, you know, my serving was perhaps a little more aggressive than it has been.  It needed to be because it's not very quick out there by any stretch of the imagination.

Q.  How are you feeling?

TIM HENMAN:  Fine, yeah, a hundred percent.

Q.  Yesterday were you okay, as well?

TIM HENMAN:  I wouldn't quite say I was a hundred percent, but I was obviously good enough. 

Q.  What treatment have you had, or just rest?

TIM HENMAN:  Not a lot, just some things to settle my stomach. 

Q.  Do you think you need to still step up a notch if you are to win it?

TIM HENMAN:  I'm playing okay, aren't I?  I'm in the semis, so I'm obviously doing something right.  I don't think I've played my best tennis.  But, as I said, you know, if I can keep winning, that's the most important thing.  I've played plenty of matches where I've played great and I've lost.  So just keep doing my best.  That's all I can do.

Q.  Would it be right the conditions are a bit less helpful to you this year?

TIM HENMAN:  I think it's slower.  I think I'm not the first person to say that.  I think the courts are, you know, bouncing up pretty high.  But, as I said, you know, that's an element you've got to deal with, and it's the same for both the players.  But perhaps the nature, you know, the way the draw has unfolded, that has something to do with it.

Q.  Any difference with the ball as well as the grass?

TIM HENMAN:  It's difficult to compare from 12 months previously.  But I think tennis balls in general on the tour have probably got quite a bit slower over the last few years.  Yeah, this seems to be relatively heavy.

Q.  The hill, this is old stuff, but you're aware of how you drive them crazy out there with these close matches.  Have you ever thought about, after a match, going out there at all?  What would happen if you showed up?

TIM HENMAN:  Good question (smiling).  Hopefully they'd be pleased to see me.  But, no, it's certainly  -- you know, I've always tried to state how much I appreciate that support, whether it's inside the stadium or outside.  You know, it is a really special thing for me because when I look  -- you know, when I look at my life, how that's been involved in tennis, to have been coming here for so long, and first come here when I'm five, and now be in the position where they've kind of named the hill after me, it's pretty cool.  Hopefully I can keep giving them the results that they want to see. 

Q.  If you won this thing Sunday, would you make a trip out there?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I'd sign for that.

Q.  Do you think in contrast to that you really had to get the crowd going a little bit?  They were fairly silent, lots of nervous coughing going on around the place. 

TIM HENMAN:  That's to be expected, isn't it?  I think there definitely was a little bit of anxiety, you know, just the nature of the way the second set unfolded  - or the first set we played today.  I felt like I was playing very, very well.  I felt like I was the better player.  I had the 15-40.  All of a sudden things changed very, very quickly.  And that's when, you know, nerves can creep into the crowd.  I had to make sure that I got back on level terms, which I did, kept my nose in front, managed to scrape through the third. 

Q.  You've been in the semifinal three times before.  This time you go in with a different game.  Will you go in with a different attitude, as well?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think, as I said straightaway afterwards, I'm not really interested in semifinals.  The first couple of times it was probably a good achievement, but that's obviously not what I'm about now.  But the only way I can get to a final is by getting to a semifinal.  So I've given myself another opportunity to progress.  Have to wait and see whether I can take that opportunity tomorrow. 

Q.  Did the work you did on clay help you to condition?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, probably too much because at times you're going to have to play a lot of points on the baseline.  I think first and foremost, there are very few people that serve and volley.  As I said, the nature of the courts, it is slow, so you can't just come in on a weak approach shot, you have to be selective.  You know, that is reminiscent to the way you play on clay.  It's obviously not the same as playing on clay, but you still have to be patient.

Q.  If you face Hewitt, how will you beat him?

TIM HENMAN:  Have to win three sets, won't I?  Obviously I take in a poor record, and that's clear for everyone to see.  But I'll have to  -- I'm going to have to play very, very well.  If I play, you know, averagely, then I would have thought I'll lose.  But if I raise my level and play the tennis I'm capable of, I think I can win.

Q.  Do you see a chink in his armor at all?

TIM HENMAN:  He's in the fifth set now, isn't he?  So, you know, Schalken has obviously won a couple of sets.  It's interesting to see the way that he's playing.  Again, you know, it's much more important, I'll worry about my own performance and concentrate on the things I can control.

Q.  You gave your racquet away at the end of the match.  Can you tell us why, the boy you gave it to, caught your eye?

TIM HENMAN:  He was the youngest in the front row.

Q.  What about Schalken, what is your knowledge of him? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I've obviously played him on a few occasions, as well  - I'm not sure, three or four times maybe.  I've got a better record against him.  But if I were to play Schalken, then he would have beaten Hewitt, so I'm sure he would take a lot of confidence away from that.  He's made the semis at Queen's, he won Rosmalen, he's through to the quarters now.  As we all say, winning is good for anyone's confidence.  I'm sure whoever I'll play, it's not going to be easy.  It would be naive to expect that in the semis of a Slam. 

Q.  It was incredibly dark in the first set last night.  How much of a problem were the flash bulbs to you?

TIM HENMAN:  It doesn't help.  It is a little bit tricky when it was so dark because I think it was difficult for everyone.  It was difficult for the players, the line judges, spectators to see what was going on.  You know, conditions are normally a bit easier if you're winning.  When I got the first set, that was obviously a good start.

Q.  Could anything be done to reduce the use of those bulbs, do you think?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, you know. 

Q.  Would you like to see that?

TIM HENMAN:  It's not an issue, really, is it?  There's lots of things.  Mobile phones.  You know, it's not the end of the world.  You'd prefer if they didn't go off, but I'm sure they'll keep going off for quite some time.

Q.  Did you feel you had to restrain yourself a couple of times today when you thought about taking a couple of great divots?

TIM HENMAN:  It's an element of frustration, yeah.  You know, apologizes again if I'm showing too much emotion on the court (smiling).  But I felt like  -- I don't know what the stats were, but, you know, I was creating some opportunities, and he was playing some great points.  I was desperately keen to stamp my authority on the match.  For periods of the third set, I wasn't able to do that. 

Q.  Do you think on any other court you might have actually smacked something? 

TIM HENMAN:  No, I don't think so.  You know, it was a set all.  It wasn't quite the Kratochvil stage.  It was certainly a good feeling when I won the third set.

Q.  Are you getting much people in the streets as you go about your daily life?  Do you get people stopping you?

TIM HENMAN:  I get a lot of people, you know, wishing me well, a lot of letters.  But I wouldn't say that I'm in the situation really.

Q.  Does your win today help avenge World Cup's defeat by Brazil?

TIM HENMAN:  I hope so.  I hope so.  You know, it's nice to get something back for that. 

Q.  Going back to that emotion you were showing on court, punching the air every other point now.  What is that all about? 

TIM HENMAN:  What's that all about (laughter)?  I'm trying pretty hard to win.  At this level, the competition's quite tough.  So when you win the point, you're pleased.

Q.  Does it mean more to you this year than other years?

TIM HENMAN:  No.

Q.  Is that why you're punching more?

TIM HENMAN:  No. 

Q.  Would you rather have had a day off?  Or does this keep you focused?

TIM HENMAN:  I'd like to have a day off, yeah.  But I'm sure  -- well, depending on the weather tomorrow, I'm sure we'll be back on court.  And it's fine.  Physically I feel very, very good.  I've worked hard over the last few years to make sure that I'm strong for these types of occasions.  You know, I don't think fitness is going to come into it.

Q.  Until now, Hewitt has kind of rattled his way through this tournament pretty quickly.  Accepting what you said about concentrating on your game, does the fact that he's had a struggle, if he gets through today, what will that do for your confidence?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I suppose you'd like to see what Schalken has done to have some success.  As you say, Hewitt looked very impressive, the way that he's played, the way he's come through the draw.  You know, I do need to look carefully at the way I play him, because I haven't beaten him before.  But right now it's probably the toughest ask in tennis, is to beat Hewitt.  And he proves consistently why he's the best in the world.  But that's a great challenge to have.  If you want to win a tournament like this, I think you want to beat the best.

Q.  Do you see this year as your best chance to win the tournament, compared to previous years?

TIM HENMAN:  I think they've all been pretty good, you know, chances.  When you get to the semis, you're playing well.  But I think, because my game has improved, therefore I'm a better player, therefore I think my chances are better. 

Q.  Are you looking forward to seeing Pat Cash in Sue Barker's outfit?

TIM HENMAN:  I'm trying my best.  I'm trying my best. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT