WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2002
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  First question for Tim. 


Q.  Happy to be through that one?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, more than happy.  I obviously was aware coming into the match that it was going to be very, very difficult against a guy of, you know, his class and his experience on grass.  And, you know, the first three sets were clear for everyone to see how close the match was.  And certainly to come through both those tiebreaks is a huge boost to one's confidence. 

Q.  The controversy in one of the tiebreaks.  How did you see it?  Ball in?  Out? 

TIM HENMAN:  I actually haven't seen it.  I haven't seen it on television.  I think my gut reaction at the time was that it was out, but I'm sure that had a lot of hope to do with it.  You know, I'd have to see it on TV.  If on TV it says it was in, then I'm sure Wayne's got every right to feel disappointed or whatever. 

Q.  He wasn't blaming you for anything, but he said the umpire might have been intimidated by some of your reactions. 

TIM HENMAN:  Have to ask him that, wouldn't you?

Q.  We have.  I wonder what you thought. 

TIM HENMAN:  You'd have to ask the umpire.  I can't answer a question for him.  But, no, in a tight situation, it was obviously a pretty tight call one way or the other.  And the umpire made the decision, that's his job.  You know, I suppose you'd have to see whether he made the right decision or the wrong one on TV.

Q.  When you motioned that the ball was out to the umpire  - we're asking you  - was it your impression he was intimidated by you?

TIM HENMAN:  I felt like I was obviously hoping the ball was out.  By the time I'd looked at both line judges, and turned to him, he'd already made his decision.  So, again, you know, I'm not going to get too much involved in that because it's an umpiring decision.  You know, I think with all the  -- all the players will admit it's a difficult job.  I'm sure they try their best.  As I said, whether he made a mistake or not, I can't  -- I can't help that. 

Q.  Did both line judges call the ball good? 

TIM HENMAN:  Well, if he made the overrule, they didn't call it. 

Q.  Definite overrule. 

TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.  I mean, I'm much more interested in talking about the three sets that I won.  You know, that's the nature of it.  There's plenty of tight calls out there.  When you're playing at this level, we like to hit pretty close to the lines.  So, you know, I think over a long period of time, some go your way, some don't. 

Q.  Have you dug yourself out of two deeper holes in two tiebreaks to come through and win?

TIM HENMAN:  Off the top of my head, no.  3-Love down in the first one, and 6-4 down, 4-Love down in the second one, those are tough situations to be in in such important sets.  But, you know, again, I then focused on the way I played to get myself out of trouble.  And when you're playing in that type of atmosphere, that type of pressure situation, you come through it, I think you've got every right to feel good about it.

Q.  Is there a difference playing those situations here in Wimbledon or if you play them at any other tournament in the world?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.  I think obviously the situation is magnified because I'm fortunate enough that most of my matches are going to be on Court  1 or Centre Court.  And every match is going to be a big match in a Grand Slam.  I think with the support that he had and the obvious support that I had, I think the atmosphere was incredible.  I think that makes it all the more enjoyable for both of us, but certainly more so for me having won. 

Q.  How much did the crowd play a part?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, they always play a part.  Beginning of the third when I'm down a break, the momentum is certainly with Wayne.  I dig my heels in.  They certainly  --.

Q.  They lifted you?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  They get even more vocal.  Suddenly I was able to break back, get back on level terms. 

Q.  How important is it to you and your game that Lucy is there all your matches?

TIM HENMAN:  I play plenty of matches throughout the year when she's not there.  It's nice that she's able to support.  But on the outcome of the match, I don't think it has any relevance.

Q.  You stuck to your new policy of not going for big first serves for most of the match.  It seemed to depend on whether he was going to make the service return or not make the service return, because he came up with some pretty telling ones when he shot back in the first set. 

TIM HENMAN:  Sure.

Q.  Did you ever sort of waiver about that?

TIM HENMAN:  No.  I think I've always tried to indicate to you that I'm pretty sure in the way I'm going to go about and play my game.  I'm very secure in my thoughts.  You know, if people disagree with that, that's fine by me.  Having said that, when you get into a difficult situation, you know, the third set breaker is a great example of that.  I felt like my tactic obviously was to mix up the serving.  When I had the opportunity, I was going to make him beat me with his backhand.  So you get to the most critical stage in a tiebreak, if you ask me, you don't serve to the forehand because if you have a game plan, you stick to it.  Obviously, coming out with a win, I think it paid off. 

Q.  It's easy to criticize from a commentary position.  Don't know whether you realize, but John McEnroe was saying, "I can't believe that he's serving to his backhand all the time."  He was saying that his forehand was making more errors. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, sometimes.  Sometimes, perhaps, I think I overplayed that.  You look at the way I served in the fourth set, made a conscious effort to serve quite a lot more to his forehand.  But, as you say, you know, these are tactical decisions that players have to make in the caldron of competition.  Sometimes you make good ones, sometimes you make bad ones.  But that's sport.

Q.  If they told you at the eve of Wimbledon, in order to get to the fourth semifinal, you had to beat Kratochvil, Lopez and Sa, would you have signed?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah (smiling). 

Q.  Wayne felt he's a good grass court player. 

TIM HENMAN:  He's better than that. 

Q.  It was an important match for both of you because you realize the importance of getting through this one.  How important did you view that victory today?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's very important.  Obviously, you know, he wasn't actually one of the seeds here, but I think you look at his grass court game and his grass court pedigree, it's right up there with some of the best.  He's had a lot of good results here.  I knew it was going to be really, really difficult.  So taking into the fact the player I beat today, I feel very good about it.  And the nature of the match we played, I don't know, three and a quarter hours or something, for four sets on grass, that's another indicator of how close it was.  Look forward to a day off tomorrow. 

Q.  He's an inconsistent player.  Does that make it  difficult?

TIM HENMAN:  We're all inconsistent.  I think sometimes when it's windy and the conditions are not as easy, you can't always play your best.  It's not quite as easy as that.  And I thought for the beginning of the match, I played some really great tennis.  But he then raised his level, starts to play very, very well.  But, again, when you're really just talking about a match that we're involved in today, it's unbelievably tight competition.  You know, fortunately for me I won today. 

Q.  Although it's People's Saturday, were you surprised how many South African supporters were in there?

TIM HENMAN:  My fitness trainer, we were talking about it before, and he knows his fair share in London.  I'm aware of how many South Africans there are in London.  It would have been naive of me to think that Wayne wasn't going to have good support.  But, yeah, it just added to it.  There were a lot of times when we were sitting at the change of ends, and I wasn't quite sure what everyone was shouting because there was obviously two camps, if you like, both shouting for their player.  It was, it was an incredible atmosphere.  You know, that's what it's all about. 

Q.  Can you think of a time in a big match where you got a really bad call that hurt you, one that stands out? 

TIM HENMAN:  Not off the top of my head.  I'm sure, you know, there have been tight ones.  5-All in the fourth set against Ivanisevic last year.  I might be wrong, but I think his first serve that was an ace was out.  That's the way it goes.

Q.  How did you feel at the time?

TIM HENMAN:  Didn't see it (smiling).  Only saw it on TV afterwards.  Would have complained a lot more if I saw it at the time.

Q.  Wayne was pretty upset when he came in just before you.  He actually said he wanted the umpire to come and apologize to him because he felt he got screwed, that that whole tiebreak changed because he felt it should have been 5-1 instead of 4-2. 

TIM HENMAN:  Right. 

Q.  Do you think it was a crucial point in that tiebreak?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, they're all important in tiebreaks.  There are no easy ones.  You know, if that's what he wants, wait and see whether that happens. 

Q.  Whether it was good or out, that ball, do you think the umpire should overrule a ball which is far away?

TIM HENMAN:  It's difficult, isn't it?  If he sees a clear mistake and he thinks it's a mistake, you would then criticize him for not overruling it, if he sees a clear mistake.  If he sees a clear mistake, thinks, "It's the tiebreak, I won't overrule it," that's wrong, as well.  Sometimes they can't win.

Q.  Looking ahead, how do you feel about going to the second week compared with previous years, about your own game and everything? 

TIM HENMAN:  It's just good to be alive in this tournament, good to be still winning, because so much has happened.  As you say, you know, now it's a question of almost starting over again.  You know, I've got to get ready for my next opponent.  I look forward to that challenge.  Hopefully I've got plenty more challenges to come.

Q.  What can you tell us about your next opponent? 

TIM HENMAN:  He's, you know, plays majority of the game from the baseline.  He's got very solid groundstrokes.  He's a good mover.  I wouldn't have thought he'll be serving and volleying too much, but I haven't seen him play at all on grass.  I think he'll obviously approach the match with not a lot to lose and lots to gain.  So I'm ready for that. 

Q.  You religiously have said you're sticking match to match in terms of your focus.  But many Grand Slam champions or others who have had incredible runs said they had a feeling in their gut it was going to go their way.  Have you had any feelings like that?

TIM HENMAN:  I've had those feelings the last six years (smiling).  You know, I've had some tough losses here, and I've always said that one day I believe I'll win this tournament.  You know, who knows what's going to happen in the next week.  If I win, then that obviously answers your question.  If I don't, it will be disappointing, but I don't think it will alter my belief. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT