WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2002
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  First question for Tim, please. 


Q.  How are you feeling? 

TIM HENMAN:  Good.  Yeah, very good.  It was a tough match.  I was  -- you know, never really felt totally comfortable out there with me game.  He was certainly making life difficult for me early on.  You know, with yesterday's happenings, it's a good one for me to get through. 

Q.  What were you most pleased about? 

TIM HENMAN:  Uhm, just, you know, getting through the match.  I think I definitely began to pick up my game.  I was serving a bit more consistently.  I think the best aspect was probably my volleying behind my serve.  You know, I gave him very few opportunities once I was at the net.  And, obviously, you know, you take confidence out of coming through some difficult stages.  You know, the 5-4 game in the third set, I was definitely up against it.  It was a little bit tight.  And those are the games that you get through, and you can build from.

Q.  You were really trying to pump the crowd out there. 

TIM HENMAN:  They were great.  When I was down a set, things weren't looking pretty, I needed a lift, and I certainly got it.  To get such an early break in the second set, it began to change the momentum of the match.  Broke early in the next two, as well. 

Q.  Is that a conscious effort to get the crowd going on your side when it's not going your way?  You seem more animated. 

TIM HENMAN:  I think it's just experience.  I know how advantageous, how positive they can be.  And I'm going to use everything I can.  As we've seen so far, the standard's so good, you know, so even, if you like, in the men's game, you've got to take everything you can.  And they certainly, certainly help me a great deal. 

Q.  Scott Draper said he felt for you a bit  - if a shot went wrong, the crowd went down with the shot.  Does that have an effect on you at all?

TIM HENMAN:  No, you know, I try and, you know, give them the positive things to talk about.  You know, they're very, very much involved in the match.  And, you know, they obviously want me to win.  So if I'm not, and I've lost the first set, then there's an element of anxiety there.  But I was able to turn things around.

Q.  You play Wayne Ferreira, Tim. 

TIM HENMAN:  Realistically, it's a step up in level because he is a very, very good player - an even better player on grass.  So it's going to be a tough match for me.  But I look forward to that challenge, as well.

Q.  You said you never felt completely comfortable with your game today.  What was wrong?

TIM HENMAN:  I wasn't playing perhaps quite as well as I would have liked.  But as, you know, professional sports players, you know, you don't have a right to come out and play, you know, your best tennis all the time.  You've got to work at it.  As I said, yesterday was a good example of that.  You know, I think all three of them, Agassi, Sampras and Safin, they probably didn't play quite as well as they would have liked, and their opponents took advantage of that.  Today I wasn't, to begin with, playing quite as well as I would have liked, but I was able to get a different result.  A lot of positives to take out of that.

Q.  Is there something specific that you'd want to improve in the Ferreira match?

TIM HENMAN:  I think I can improve in lots of areas.  I'm not going to specify one area.  But, you know, I'm still in.  That is the most important thing.  Winning at this level is what it's all about.

Q.  Did what happened to Agassi and Sampras flicker across your mind at all when you lost the first set?

TIM HENMAN:  Not exactly.  But I was certainly aware of it last night.  It obviously crossed your mind.  But that's why you're going to, you know, focus, try and concentrate even harder, be even more sort of selfish in your approach to your own game because that's the only thing that you can control.  As I said, after a few difficult moments, to come through and play as, you know, consistently as I did, I am very, very pleased with that. 

Q.  Obviously, the wipe-out yesterday of seeds, critics think it will give you more of an open field, greater chance.  Do you feel the same way? 

TIM HENMAN:  Which half of the draw was playing yesterday (laughter)? 

Q.  Of course, I'm talking about Pete and Andre. 

TIM HENMAN:  Is that my half?  There's a lot of experts out there.  A large majority of the experts, I haven't paid a great deal of attention to it.  I think that's enough said, really, isn't it? 

Q.  Scott mentioned that in his opinion, Centre Court was playing slower than before.  There's been quite a lot of comment from a number of players that the courts are playing a bit differently this year.  We wondered what your opinion was. 

TIM HENMAN:  I think they're a bit slower, yeah.

Q.  Apart from that, any differences?

TIM HENMAN:  I think because they're a little bit slower, the ball is probably bouncing a little bit higher.  That's, you know, probably been the nature of the game in general.

Q.  But the impression is that the bounce is quite consistent. 

TIM HENMAN:  Oh, very.  Yeah, the bounce is very consistent.  You know, on these courts, there are very, very few bad bounces.  But, you know, I think the sort of general consensus is that they're playing a little bit slower, the balls are a little bit heavier.

Q.  The end of the third set, that deuce game went on forever. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I was pretty nervous.  I don't know how you were (smiling).  That's to be expected, isn't it?  It's how you overcome that.  You know, I hit a couple of really good second serves when I needed them, saved some breakpoints.  To get through that game and obviously then be up two sets to one, it's a good one to come through.  You don't want to suddenly be playing a breaker in the third because that's when it can get tricky.

Q.  This is obviously a very emotional event for you, strong event in your mind.  Do you ever wake up or dream and panic that you're playing a second round match at Wimbledon, semifinal, you have to pinch yourself to say you're not?

TIM HENMAN:  I think about Wimbledon a lot, whether it's during the tournament or outside the tournament, because, you know, I've said on a number of occasions it's the biggest and most important tournament for me.  That's always going to be the case.  So I'm obviously involved.  I'm in the middle of it right now.  I'm just worried about my next match.  Concentrate on my performance.

Q.  The rest of the year, do you wake up in a cold sweat and think "I didn't practice enough"?

TIM HENMAN:  No, no.

Q.  A hard question to ask at a time like this.  The subject of drug use on the tour and steroids has come up again.  In all your years  --?

TIM HENMAN:  It's come up today? 

Q.  Yes. 

TIM HENMAN:  Fill me in. 

Q.  In relationship to John McEnroe, reports are out that his former wife will go on ABC television in the United States and claim that he used steroids. 

TIM HENMAN:  All right.

Q.  She also said he used cocaine before big matches.  But it's come up before with Korda; Becker has also made accusations. 

TIM HENMAN:  What do you want me to say? 

Q.  My question to you is, in your years of travel on the tour, in the locker room, conversation, have you seen evidence of drug use or steroid use?

TIM HENMAN:  Well, Korda tested positive, didn't he? 

Q.  Yes. 

TIM HENMAN:  Truyol tested positive, young Spanish guy.  There's been Chela and Coria.  Is that the four?  I'm not missing any others?  So, you know, we have a program, a testing program.  Those people have been caught.  You know, we get tested all the time.  How many times a year do we get tested?  I would say between half a dozen to a dozen times.  I've been tested out of, you know, competition.  You know, some guy rocks up on your doorstep and says, "You're doing a drug test."  If that's the case, and they've caught people, then that's a step in the right direction.  I don't suddenly think that, you know, we should be thinking that we've got some sort of drug issue in the sport.  That's about it really. 

Q.  This washing powder ad, are you enjoying your sex symbol status?

TIM HENMAN:  Is that what it is (smiling)? 

Q.  It certainly is. 

TIM HENMAN:  Is it?  God, I have to be careful here, don't I?  It's been a bit of fun.  In all honesty, I've been a little bit surprised by the reaction.  When I was approached to be involved, as Ariel were going to get involved in the British game, I thought it would be a bit of fun.  I'm not scared to have a bit of a laugh at myself.  I'm glad that so many other people are laughing too.

Q.  Have you had any magazine offers?

TIM HENMAN:  No, not yet (smiling). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT