TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 7, 2002
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim, please.  
 
 
Q.  Tim, we heard that you weren't feeling very well.  Could you tell us what happened to you? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I'm  certainly not feeling my best.  After kind of towards the end of the doubles I didn't feel  -- my stomach didn't feel quite right.  And last night and this morning, just really bad diarrhea.  And haven't eaten for quite some time.  So there's not a lot inside of me.  So, hence, not a lot of energy.  But, you know, I was still pretty close to perhaps squeaking something out and feeling a bit better tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Did it get worse as the match went on? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, it kind of decided my game plan for me, to keep the rallies as short as possible.  But to tell you the truth, after the first game I felt pretty exhausted after the four or five deuces we had.  But, yeah, I suppose that the longer the match went, it was probably more in his favor.  But, as I said, you know, I was up in the tiebreak and he had a couple of good returns, good passing shots at the right time.  I missed an easy backhand volley at 5-all.  So it was, you know, nearly  -- nearly got there without playing with a great deal.  
 
Q.  Did you consider retiring in that final set? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Not exactly.  I suppose it crossed my mind.  But, you know, I retired once this year, and that's kind of enough for me.  I don't really  -- I don't really like that.  I feel like if you, you know, if you start the match, then I think you should do your best to finish it.  And I knew my sort of chances were diminishing.  Having said that, I had a chance to break back.  But, no, I wanted to finish it.  I started it, so... 
 
Q.  Been a bit of a kind of roller coaster of emotions in the Tennis Masters Series for you, a final, a semifinal. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's been a bit  -- well, I suppose in a funny sort of way I was sort of pretty consistent the last couple of years without too many eventful things happening.  So on the one side, yeah, you take the good bits.  Because I've certainly  -- still the best start to my year.  I've played some of certainly my best tennis.  But on the other side of the coin, if things are going to be eventful, then there's probably going to be some disappointing aspects.  And certainly having the neck problem in Miami was definitely one of them, and having been playing well and then to get sick is another one.  But as a whole, you know, with the way the year's gone, I'd certainly still take it.  
 
Q.  Any idea what might have caused it?  Something you might have eaten?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Not really.  I'd be surprised if it's something I've eaten because the food's so good, isn't it?  But, no, I don't really know the answer to that question.  
 
Q.  What do you think about Ivanisevic pulling out of Wimbledon? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think it's really sort of disappointing.  I think it's really sad for him.  It was such an incredible story last year, and he talked so much about wanting to have the opportunity to open proceedings.  So, you know, when it was mentioned a couple days ago, it was pretty disappointing.  
 
Q.  Will you play doubles? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I'd like to play, yeah.  I mean, it's one of those things that will hopefully clear up pretty quickly  - clear up as quickly as it came - so that I can, you know, keep working on things, keep playing some matches.  And certainly the way we played last night, I think it could be another good partnership.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT