TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2002
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Tim, please. 


Q.  Could we just ask you about your stomach.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's okay.  I mean, it's a bit sore.

Q.  Just a slight pull, though?

TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.  I haven't really seen anyone yet.  But I think most parts of my body are entitled to be a bit sore. 

Q.  They are, absolutely.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's just a lot of -- when you're hitting kick serves a lot and serving in general, you're stretching so much.  So, yeah, it feels a little bit sore, but I don't envision it being any problems for tomorrow.

Q.  Quite different sort of match than the ones you've been having?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  Well, the thing that disappointed me most at the beginning was that I wasn't really  -- wasn't really using my head a great deal.  Because I started off I was hitting the ball pretty well the first few games.  But, if anything, I was playing into his style too much.  When you're playing flat and without so much topspin, he's  -- he can generate so much power, so much more power than I can from the baseline.  And probably on his serve he was getting cheap points and I wasn't, if you like. And disappointed it took me so long to decide to change things around, but I suppose it was worth waiting for. 

Q.  He had break points against you in your first service game. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah, 15-40.

Q.  You immediately broke him. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, well, because then I suddenly decided that, you know, perhaps we should just play a few really long rallies.  It's not really my style, but I wasn't being too effective up until that point.  So then I didn't give him any pace.  I started hitting a lot of looping balls and just played a few long rallies, said, "I'm not going to make any unforced errors," and it began to change the momentum.  Then still on my serve I decided to be much more aggressive in my first serve, really go for it.  And, again, that paid off.

Q.  Your game suddenly had altogether a new momentum in the second game, second set?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.

Q.  I think you were 15-40 down, from there on it seemed to surge forward again.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, because I felt especially on clay you really got to make your opponent earn it.  And I think, as I said, I was probably making a few too many unforced errors.  And, you know, wasn't really stretching him too much.   But after I got the break of serve, I played, you know, second and third sets as consistently and as good as I've probably ever played against that style, which is the toughest.

Q.  Are you aware of the kind of almost fascination that an Englishman who plays serve and volley naturally is in the semifinals of this event?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.

Q.  People are actually coming to watch. 

TIM HENMAN:  I sense an element of surprise sometimes when they see me hitting volley winners.  It's kind of --.

Q.  Is it nice, a good feeling?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's funny.

Q.  People expect it in most places, but probably not here. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think certainly perhaps my style of play is, you know, is clear to most people.  And, you know, I don't know if "unique" is the right word, but it's pretty rare at this tournament and these types of tournaments.  And, again, it always makes fun watching, I think, when you've got a good contrast in styles.  And, again, you know, I just think the way I was able to, again, play a different style of clay court tennis today against, you know, a very good player and to come through it in such a tight one is really good news.

Q.  Four matches in four days. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.

Q.  You say you've got the right to be a bit knackered.  You've now got to go out and play a guy whose 's only Grand Slam is on this surface as well.  He's a very good clay court player. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, again, I felt like today's match was a step up in the level and sort of the challenge levels, if you like.  Because, you know, playing  -- to beat the South American guys or whatever is very difficult.  But it's very  - I think it's very clear-cut, the way I've got to play. But today I had to adjust again.  And in all honesty playing Moya, I think it's probably up another level.  I'm enjoying the challenges so far, so I'll just see how I fare.

Q.  I know the job isn't done yet, but can you just say, it's the first time in a clay court semifinals, that's a hell of an achievement, isn't it?

TIM HENMAN:  I think so, yeah, I think it's pretty good going.  But I'm not -- I'm obviously not finished yet.  I want to see how far I can go.  That's the enjoyable bit  - when you've worked very hard on a lot of aspects of your game and you start to see the results on the match court.

Q.  You've not been on the Center Court yet this time.  You were there last year for the quarters.  You like that court very much.  It's been good for you, hasn't it?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.

Q.  Not just this year, but last year also?

TIM HENMAN:  Sure, sure.

Q.  Going on the big court tomorrow against a guy who is one of the great clay court players around, and with Kuerten sort of trying to fight his way back after his operation, Moya's obviously going to be one of the fancied players if he's fit and well for the French, this is a tremendous challenge for you?

TIM HENMAN:  It is, yeah.  I mean, I think that's the honest answer.  You know, I've played on that court enough times to  -- for that not to affect me.  But, again, you know, my opponent is a world-class clay court - is a world-class player - and he's probably even better on clay.  I look forward to it.  I don't feel like I've got anything to lose.

Q.  There is a strange element in tennis, isn't there sometimes, where because people back home don't know the names very well of maybe some of the Latin American or even some of the Spanish clay courters, that the guys you've actually beaten so far here are excellent clay court players.  But they'll have heard of Moya.  They'll realize what a test it is for you tomorrow.  But all three before that, and then Johansson, were tests in their own right, weren't they?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, you guys know as well as anyhow how high the standard is.  And especially on clay, because there are so many players that are born and bred on this surface.  That's why, you know, you talk about the French and you say, well, "Who could win the French?" And there is a whole list of guys that could win the French.  Whereas, you know, when it comes down to Wimbledon, the numbers of genuine contenders is a lot less.

Q.  The way that tiebreak was played was a special event by both of you, wasn't it?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it was.  Again, we had certainly at that stage of the match weren't going to give any cheap points.  And, you know, I felt like I was very consistent.  But I was struggling with myself mentally because, you know, having had two matchpoints, I could have perhaps got frustrated.  But I stuck to my game plan, even at  -- you know, when was it, 6-3 in the tiebreak.  I hit a good slice backhand, I get a bad bounce as well for him, and he hits it down the line on the line.  You know, I still managed to finish it off.  So it was very, very satisfying.

Q.  Do you know what your record is on Center Court, do you have any idea?

TIM HENMAN:  Don't think I've ever won on it.  What difference does that make?  I lost to Meligeni, I had matchpoint. 

Q.  Did you feel flat, first of all?  I mean, all of the attention was on that.  You both struggled first off.  But you were struggling more. 

TIM HENMAN:  I felt like I was struggling with my game plan.  Because, as I said, playing the other three guys, it's very  -- to me, it's very, very clear.  But playing him on clay, I wasn't quite sure of how to adapt my game.  And that's kind of what frustrated me early on, that, you know, I was down 4-1 and I was obviously losing the majority of the baseline points.  But I wasn't really making any changes.  And that's why, you know, in hindsight I should have made some changes a bit earlier.  It took me a set before I then started to change the shape of the rallies, if you like, and play a little bit defensively.  But it's much harder for him to attack if the balls are, you know, bouncing up a lot higher instead of coming through.  Once I got the first set out of the way, it was all good news for me.

Q.  How much contact have you had with Larry this week?  He's been away, but you've phoned him. (Inaudible). 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, sure.  I've spoken to him I think every day since I've been here, ever since Thursday.  I'm sure he'll be aware of the results.

Q.  He must be pleased as well? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  Well, I mean, I wouldn't  -- I'd say I'd probably take a bit more of the credit doing it on my own than having Larry here.  But we've certainly spoken about it enough times each day so that he doesn't actually see the match, but I think he's aware of everything else that's been going on and everything that has gone into this  - the work that we've done.  Just because he's not here doesn't mean that all that input is forgotten about.

Q.  So you haven't been teasing him about how well you're doing?

TIM HENMAN:  No, no, not yet.  I think it's still safe to say he'll be in Rome.

Q.  Did one of the ball kids ask if he could have your wrist band?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.

Q.  Just before you were about to serve for the second set?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.

Q.  That was at the changeover, was it?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah. 

Q.  Did you say, "Maybe later?"

TIM HENMAN:  Well, if you don't ask, you don't get (laughter).  Yeah, no, I didn't.  No.  I was a little bit surprised.

Q.  Did he get it?

TIM HENMAN:  No, I didn't  -- No.  Well, I thought I needed it.  But he looked a bit disappointed (laughter). 

Q.  How would you sum up this week in terms of not your career  --?

TIM HENMAN:  Not really the time, is it?

Q.  No, I was thinking more of in terms of when you came here, what would you have said you would have settled for? 

TIM HENMAN:  You know, it's difficult, isn't it?  What are my odds  - I'll ask you  - what are my odds of winning the tournament before the tournament starts? 

Q.  Fairly outside, I would have thought.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, very outside.  But I still think, you know, on a given day, you know, I can win any match.  But, you know, can I win six in a row?  I don't know.  So that's why, you know, you put yourself out there, you put yourself on the line.  And, you know, at the end of it, you're either going to win the match or lose.  That's kind of the way I approach it.  So you talk about what's a good week, what's a bad week.  I don't  -- it's not really the right way to approach it.  I just, you know, go out there and try, I think it's as simple as that.  I think I'll be able to answer that question better when the week's  -- when I finish with this week. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT