TMS MONTE CARLO
April 18, 2002
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim, please. 


Q.  I think it goes without saying that you must be pretty thrilled with that match.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it was a good one to come through.  And it was  -- kind of had similarities to our match previously but in reverse, because I think the 6-2 first set was probably as good as I've played on clay in a long, long time - perhaps ever.  Because I don't think  -- I didn't make any unforced errors, and I was playing the match exactly to my strengths and getting him out of his comfort zone, which is something that I've talked about all week.  You know, the beginning of the second set, the first game's probably the critical one.  When I lost my serve, that certainly gives him a lift.  But, even again at 4-love down, I feel like I've got a chance in every service game if I play the game that I'm capable of.  And I did, I turned it around very, very quickly, and unfortunately wasn't able to play as good a tiebreak as I would have liked.   And probably the only time in the match, the beginning of the third set, that was when we started to play a clay court match.  And that was a little bit worrying because I think that's playing into his strengths.  But I held on to my first two service games, and, you know, decided it was time to start playing the match on my terms again. 

Q.  Bearing in mind his reputation on clay, etc., where would you put that in terms of your clay court wins at this level? 

TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.  I think beating Costa is probably  -- he's, you know, right up there with the top clay court players.  But, you know, I like the way my game matches up against these type of guys.  And then my next match, it will be interesting because it will be a different match because I'm playing more of a hardcourt players, if you like.  I'm sure they'll be looking to attack me a lot more than as being the case in the first three. 

Q.  Towards the end of the match, you were serve-volleying a lot. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah. 

Q.  Was that deliberate? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think -- because in the beginning of the third, those three or four games, you know, I was  -- because it was getting hotter and a little bit quicker, I was actually struggling to control the ball a little bit.  And some of the short shots that I was trying to hit, because it's lively and it's bouncy, actually sits up, gives him more time to get under the ball.  So I actually went to a bit of a tighter racquet to give me a bit more control.  Then I felt like I was able to start to swing out a little bit more, play a little bit more aggressively.  And, as I said, that's when the sort of the tactics, the game plan of the match, changed again.  It was back to the first set, because I felt like I was the one that was kind of dictating how the points evolved. 

Q.  Do you feel, talking about evolving, that you beat Coria when it was very tight and you had to come from behind.  Do you feel that you're really getting on top of games that maybe in the past few months you've lost?

TIM HENMAN:  Perhaps.  I think it's definitely a good sign when you can still be, you know, mentally and physically strong when you're down.  And I have been, you know, I was a long way down against Coria.  But, you know, my competitive instincts, I think - well, I know - have always been there.  But I think it's easier perhaps for you guys to see it on a surface like this because you can, you know, you really can construct and grind out a lot of long points.  But, no, certainly on this surface, which is the toughest surface for me to play, to be able to be as strong as I've been is very satisfying. 

Q.  In Indian Wells, though, it was that way as well.  It seems that, from afar, that perhaps it's confidence in your game. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think definitely I do feel very confident about the work that I've done, the improvements I've made.  And I think when you're in those difficult situations, you kind of want to make life as difficult as you can for your opponents.  And you say, "If they are going to beat me, then they're going to have to play some really good tennis.  I'm not going to give them any cheap points.  And I'm going to make them work for it."   It's that sort of type of attitude, playing each point as it comes, it certainly does serve you well on clay especially.

Q.  Last year probably for almost the first time, but even more this time, it looks like you're actually enjoying trying to outwit your opponent on clay court?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I certainly enjoyed the experience last year with the way I played here.  And perhaps it, you know, came as a bit more of a surprise last year.  I think this year with those results under my belt, there is added belief. 

Q.  You've done particularly well here, obviously, the last two years.  Is there anything about Monte-Carlo itself, the courts here?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I think the conditions, they do vary.  You know, as I said, beginning of the match, it's actually slower and heavier because the courts got more, you know, are still damp from the water.  And that actually, I think, plays to my favor because they are not able to generate the power and the spin with their shots because they're hitting topspin so it doesn't really come through the court.  And when I'm playing slice, it stays very low, when I play the short one, just sort of dump it cross court.  On a wet court, it just doesn't do anything.  The ball hardly bounces.  But actually, as the court gets quicker and I play the same shot, it sits up more.  But having said that, on the other side, then I can serve and volley a lot better because it's quicker and I can get more penetration with a serve and volley game.

Q.  We've touched on this before, but it's often said that a player with your game has got the shots to beat these sort of clay court specialists, as they're known.  But very often it's a matter of belief and having the patience to ride out what they're going to do at that stage of the game.  Obviously, your belief in your game on this surface has come on leaps and bounds.

TIM HENMAN:  Definitely, definitely.  Winning certainly gives you confidence.  And when I'm winning on this surface, it's going to give me belief.  But, again, you still have to be realistic that the type of game that I'm trying to play is, you know, my game is high-risk at the best of times.  And playing it  -- playing a high-risk game on clay is probably even riskier.   But, again, I appreciate that if I try and play the conservative way and try and play these guys at their own game, you know, I'd be racking up a lot more losses.  So, you know, a good example is when I'm serving for the match.  I save the breakpoint, then I'm at deuce.  I've missed my first serve.  And, you know, I serve and volley on my second serve for the first time in the match.  Again, that's something that he's probably not expecting.  I feel I've got the confidence to do that.   But if I would have missed it, then I still would have felt better with myself that I committed to the shot and tried to execute it as best I could.  As it was, you know, it paid off very, very nicely. 

Q.  You're off to actually making the opponents, the clay court opponents, go for the very low-margin-for-error shots.  Is that possible?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I think also because they  -- it isn't easy to return on clay because you haven't got the sure footing of a hardcourt.  And, again, that's where if I'm serving and volleying, they can't really play the percentage return of just chipping it back as I do.  They know if they do that, then I'm going to have a relatively easy volley.  So, again, yeah, you want to get them out of their comfort zone as much as possible. 

Q.  Talk about sure footing, did you almost lose your footing at one stage late in the game?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, couple of times.  There was a big point, wasn't there?

Q.  Looked as if he thought you were going to lob.  You actually played that forehand down the line.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.  I'm not sure I quite knew where it was.  But it was deuce, wasn't it, on my serve at about 3-2 I think in the third.  I'll take it.

Q.  Assuming it's Johansson, he's not done that well on clay up to the last year or so.  Interesting match on clay?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it is.  First time we've played on clay.  Again, you know, he's feeling pretty good about his year as well for obvious reasons.  Again, it will be, if I play him, if I play Pavel, I've practiced with him before the tournament.  He's playing really, really well.  We'll just wait and see.  But I'll go out there and commit myself to what I'm trying to do and see how it goes. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT