TMS MONTE CARLO
April 17, 2002
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  Another splendid demonstration of playing without pressure, wasn't it?

TIM HENMAN:  It was good.  Obviously, very pleased to get another win.  I'm a little bit surprised at the beginning because, you know, in the first  -- I felt like in the first set there was a couple of just important points where I hit good shots at the right time.  The breakpoint in the first game I hit a good return.  Then when I was down breakpoint in the second game, hit a couple of good forehands.  But in all honesty, you know, he really donated a lot of the first set.  He was making a lot of unforced errors.  And I was just happy to keep the ball in and not really go for the lines too much.  I still served very consistently.  But then in the second set, you know, it was a slightly different story.  I was always  -- the momentum was clearly with me.  I was always on top.  But until I actually got a break of serve or I got myself clearly in front, there was always a chance that he could get back into it.  And that was certainly evident at the 4-all game.

Q.  Coming through two such contrasting matches as yesterday and today, though, does that stand you in good stead?  Do you feel good about the way you're confronting every kind of different situation and coming through?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.  I think any time  -- In think in all honesty, any time you're winning, especially on this surface, it can only be good for your confidence.  But, you know, I  -- probably the most satisfying aspect of the match was the way that I finished , the way I played the tiebreak.  I think I served five times and made five very good first serves and, you know, volleyed really well. And, yeah, that certainly is something that I'll need to do well in the next match. 

Q.  (Inaudible) you can take from one game into the other, when you're on the other side of the situation.  The way it started today was almost the same as yesterday in the first. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, that's right.  It was all, you know, it was all going my way.  That's great, you try and take advantage of that.  But you just know  - and you've seen some of the other matches today  - on clay, you know, break of serve is good to have.  But two breaks of serve is even better to have.  But once you finish the match, that's when you can be content.  And so I was just trying to keep my intensity, the pressure on him as great as possible throughout. 

Q.  Were you conscious of the fact that he had a bit of trouble with his arm yesterday?  It could wear off during a match, but he can play himself through it and get better?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  The way he serves, it's probably not surprising that he has a few elbow and shoulder problems.  Because, I mean, he's just going for  it - it's quite a strange technique.  And he's going for it the whole time.   And in the first set, you know, I'm not sure what his first serve percentage was, but it couldn't have been too high.  Then in the second set, it really turned around.  He was hitting a lot of big first serves.  I was trying to just block them back.  Then he has a chance to dictate with his forehand.  So it's good to get out in straight sets.

Q.  Does his body language make a difference?  He was doing a bit of moaning, his gestures.  Did you pick up on that? 

TIM HENMAN:  Well, I think you try and be aware.  You try and take the positives, for me, out of it.  But I think he was very ready to play a third set.  In the games at 4-5 and 5-6, he was still very aggressive, still very motivated.   But, again, you know, I felt like I was the one that was on top, and I wanted to really emphasize that, if you like. 

Q.  How much satisfaction does it give you to beat and outplay at times players whose natural inclination is to play on these courts?  Is that as satisfying as anything?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.  Definitely.  These are perhaps the most satisfying wins.  You take, you know, winning finals, obviously that's a different scenario.  But it is strange.  I was just talking to Costa in the locker room.  And I beat him twice on clay.  And, you know, he beats me on hardcourt and indoors.  Massu beat me on hardcourts, I beat him on clay.  It's, you know, it is bizarre sometimes the way things unfold. 

Q.  What do you put that down to?

TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.  I think perhaps sometimes, as I've talked about less expectation from my point of view when I'm playing on clay, and probably more expectation from their point of view.  They realize that perhaps they are the favorite and could or should win the matches.  And, likewise, perhaps when I've played them on hardcourts, you know, you perhaps restrict yourself a little bit.  But, yeah, I don't really know. 

Q.  Is there a lesson for, say, the grass court season in that?  Maybe you just need to take the expectations off yourself a little bit?

TIM HENMAN:  No, I don't think so.  I think my expectations are quite rightly pretty high.  On grass I think I would still probably, even irrespective of Sampras' recent form, I still think he probably goes in with his record at Wimbledon as a favorite.  But, you know, I'd certainly put myself in the next group behind.  I want to do well, and to a certain extent I expect to do well.  But you still can't take it for granted.  I've got to prove it again this year, that I'm a good grass court player. 

Q.  (Inaudible) that volley caught him in the face.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it was pretty bad actually.  I mean, it was certainly, you know, certainly my intentions to go at him.  And I think from a player's point of view, you don't mind getting, you know, hit on the back or in the leg.  But to get him on the nose is probably a bit  -- you know, it was tough.  Certainly wasn't where I was aiming exactly.  But I don't think that that did too much damage.

Q.  Although you didn't win that game when he was serving at 5-all in the second set, that first point was one to remember, wasn't it?  Do you remember that one?  The crowd got really worked up over it.  Beautiful slice on the slice return.  Second set. 

TIM HENMAN:  I was serving at 5-all. 

Q.  6-5. 

TIM HENMAN:  5-6, yeah. 

Q.  First point of that next game.

TIM HENMAN:  Uhm...

Q.  One to remember (laughter)! 

TIM HENMAN:  One to remember.  The 15-love one was a good one, the short cross-court, yeah, second point of the game.  Just check your notes, JP (laughter).  That was good.  I certainly couldn't have hit it any closer to the net or closer to the line. 

Q.  You came in here 4th seed, obviously on the merit of the rolling system, and you were a quarterfinalist here last year.  But the way you've performed, having different challenges like yesterday and back today, you really just defined that seeding, you know, here, so far. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.

Q.  You have one match to go to justify it. 

TIM HENMAN:  Two, yeah. 

Q.  But we used to think, "A British player seeded high in a clay court tournament, what's going on here?"  But actually you've shown why.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think I'm beginning to show my capabilities on this surface.  But, again, as I look forward to my next match, I'm probably just trying to get two games in each set against Chela.  Having him, you know, he's dropped four games in the tournament.  So I don't know.  And I haven't seen him hit a ball.  So I don't know what he's up to, but he's obviously feeling pretty confident himself.  So it's going to be a difficult one.  But, as you say, seedings certainly help, I think, in these tournaments for your  -- for the sort of opportunity to avoid the other top players.  But once the draw's been made, it really does mean very little else.   And just take it  -- look forward to tomorrow's challenge. 

Q.  What do you remember from the match two years ago against him? 

TIM HENMAN:  I played pretty ordinary for a set and a half.  I was  -- it was one of those occasions where I was looking like I was going down.  And then I turned the thing around and started to play very, very well.  I was up a break in the third.  I think I might have had a point for a double break.  And he looked pretty exhausted.  And wasn't able to close out that opportunity.  And he certainly got a lot stronger.  I remember at the time it felt like a pretty disappointing loss.

Q.  Can you remember the last time you played three South Americans?  Have you played three South Americans on successive days on clay before?

TIM HENMAN:  No, I don't think so.  Not at this level.  Maybe in juniors when I was playing in South America.  But I don't think so.  So that's...

Q.  Pretty tough, isn't it?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it is.  They make you work, that is for sure.  But I don't think  -- you know, I'm not playing a normal clay court game, so I don't think they particularly enjoy it because they end up having to play a lot of different shots than perhaps they're not used to. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, if I just, you know, if you keep the normal sort of shape of clay court rallies with lots of topspin and people moving six, eight feet behind the baseline, then they get the chance to hit up on the ball.  When the ball's high, obviously they can generate a lot more topspin.  But if the ball's low and they've got to move forward to it, you know, slice is really their only opportunity.  And with the guys with two-handed backhands, if you get one of the hands off the racquets, I think that's a positive for you.  If you get them at net, I think that's even a bigger advantage. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT