NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 23, 2002
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Well, that was an interesting afternoon, I suppose you could say?

TIM HENMAN:  Yep.  Yeah.  Two pretty good sets and one very ordinary one in the middle.  I couldn't have been happier with the start I made, because I made a bad start against him in Hamburg, and certainly he plays a lot better when he's in front.  Then I got the balance right between not letting him get into a rhythm and still being very aggressive and not rushing.  And his lack of rhythm I think at the end of the first set kind of influenced me a little bit too much, because the beginning of the second set, that's when I played, you know, a little bit cautiously and with him making unforced errors.  I still needed to be more aggressive.  I lost my serve first game, and suddenly that's the boost he needed.  But, you know, it's similar to last week.  I definitely didn't play my best out there, but, you know, it's a good one to get through.  And sometimes good things can happen from these types of wins. 

Q.  How do you feel about the five days that you've had since you last played?  Was that just what you wanted? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, no.  I mean, I definitely needed to have a bit of a break.  And, you know, it's just different type of conditions here.  It's a lot more humid.  The balls get really big.  It's almost like the moisture gets into them, makes them much fluffier.  It's not going to be a story this week of a lot of cheap points.  You're going to have to work very, very hard for them.  And I suppose it's not that much windier here, is it, than the way Indian Wells was.  But it's still much swirlier here, and that doesn't always make ingredients for great tennis, but you have to find a way to get through.

Q.  Would you read a lot into it, given the strides that you've taken on your serve and the fact that you talked about consistency on your serve this year, the fact that you served eight double-faults today, what does that tell us? 

TIM HENMAN:  Not a lot.  I mean, not ideal, is it?  You don't really want to serve eight double-faults.  You don't want to serve any double-faults.  But, you know, I certainly -- I wouldn't read a great deal into it.  You know, aspects of my game I did well.  I think my volleying, my movement at the net was very good.  My footwork in the second set was bad.  But, as I said, I certainly didn't play well in the first match last week and I found a way to get through it.   It's amazing how things can turn around from there.  So definitely the sole purpose of the match is a win, and I got that.  So I'm pleased. 

Q.  A match like that, your first match in the tournament, when you've come off such a good week last week, and really you're playing a competitor who you're expected to beat. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah. 

Q.  I think it's  difficult --?

TIM HENMAN:  It's difficult to read anything into it.  It's just not really a very comfortable match to play, because it's definitely a match that I feel I should win; I desperately want to win.  And, you know, I felt like I was playing the better tennis.  But, again, until you prove it, until you actually get two sets under your belt, then everything else, all that other, you know, thoughts and feelings, they don't mean anything.  And it is, it's just one you've got to get through somehow.  And in the past, I probably haven't found a way to get through these matches and I've come unstuck, and that's over a long period in these types of events.  That's where you sort of miss out.

Q.  You talked about the balls being different, perhaps the kind of wind being different  - swirlier, you said.  Is it different playing on Grandstand Court compared to the Stadium Court?

TIM HENMAN:  I think it's a little bit more swirly, not quite as sheltered as the main court.  But I don't, yeah, that court, it seems like I've either had great matches or some pretty difficult ones to say the least.  You know, I lost to Fabrice out there last year.  You know, the years before I've beaten Korda and Moya and Rios, so definitely some good ones.  That was probably as middle of the road as you'll get.

Q.  You have a bit of a season ticket out there?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, they like sticking me out there.  It's much more convenient just to play here.  But I'll have to work my way through the tournament and try to get on to the main stadium.

Q.  You've got a bit of a head cold?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I don't know whether it's just air conditioning, but last 24 hours.  I feel fine but just a bit blocked up.

Q.  Did you like the introduction they gave you when you came on? 

TIM HENMAN:  What was that one?

Q.  They said you were the "good-looking lad from London with the flashy, awkward game"?

TIM HENMAN:  "Awkward"?  Is that awkward or all-court?

Q.  It could have been all-court.

TIM HENMAN:  I'd be happy if it's all-court.  I'm not sure about awkward.

Q.  This flashy thing is sticking with you.  It was the same thing last week.

TIM HENMAN:  What, my introduction or my performance? 

Q.  Your introduction.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's Wayne Bryan, isn't it?  Yeah, it's Bob or Mike Bryan's father.  Yeah. 

Q.  Oh, that's right. 

TIM HENMAN:  I think it's safe to say he likes the sound of his own voice.  But, no, he's good.  He always -- does a lot of the kids stuff and he's never shy to say a word or two. 

Q.  Mantilla?

TIM HENMAN:  Is that who won? 

Q.  Yes. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, that's pretty much the biggest contrast in styles.  And, you know, I think my game has matched up pretty well with him.  So I need to make some improvements, but I'm looking forward to that.  Hopefully it will be, you know, warm and I can play aggressively, keep moving my feet. 

Q.  Another one you'll be expected to win.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.  I feel like on hardcourts I am expected to win.  But, you know, I got to go out and prove that, then I can say after the match when I've won that I was a better player. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT