NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 21, 2002
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Tim, please. 


Q.  First of all, how did it come about?  You weren't wearing blue shorts?

TIM HENMAN:  No, no, that's right.  We talked about playing last week, actually.  And I think he was still  -- he said he was still trying to recharge the batteries after San Jose.  That obviously didn't show in the singles (laughing).  And so then he said but, you know, "Are you interested in playing Miami."  In all honesty, I wasn't going to play.  I was more interested in playing last week just to get a match.  Then I thought, "Well, why not?  It would be fun.  Nothing to lose."   It turned out  -- it turned out well.

Q.  Could have picked an easier first-round opponent, couldn't you?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah, definitely. 

Q.  They were pissed off at the end, weren't they?

TIM HENMAN:  Well, yeah.  Let's be honest, there were a couple of horrendous calls early on.  Like three and four points, or was it three and three points. 

Q.  Yes, yes.

TIM HENMAN:  So, I don't think that did them too much good. 

Q.  Funnier court, isn't it, the one with the dent on the side? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it kind of, yeah, is...

Q.  (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, that's right.  And on that smash as well.  I saw as soon as that smash was gone, I didn't want anything to do with it.  It's pretty hard.  So it's good to see the best make mistakes like that.

Q.  What's he like as a doubles player and a doubles partner?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's good.  It's good to get the feelings off your chest.  Because half the time when I was serving in Indian Wells, I was thinking, "Gee, that's a good return.  Gee, that's a great return."  At least tonight I could say it.  So it's good to see him keep making the returns as he does, because I don't think right now, there is anyone better.  So, yeah,  it's good, I think.  That combination works well  - a good, you know, serve and volleyer, then a guy that, you know, makes a lot of returns.  Because there were plenty of games that I didn't make too many and he kept us in the game.  That was enough to get a break in each set.

Q.  What benefits can you get in your own game from playing an occasional doubles with a top-class player like that?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's always good to work on those things.  But I think more so in the conditions like this when it is windy out there.  I think those were some of the best conditions you'll get in Miami.  But it's  -- it just customizes you to the conditions.  But no question on the ongoing process, that I'm working towards with my serve and my serve and volley game, it can only be a good thing. 

Q.  Had you talked about that, that possibility, that you'd play more doubles?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think he's certainly keen on the idea.  I mean, he still appreciates that you want to focus most of your attentions and energy, certainly, on the singles game.  But I'm definitely, you know, again I'm going to play  -- I think there's a fair chance that Lleyton and I will play on the clay somewhere.  So, yeah, it would be good.  And, again, likewise, get used to the clay. 

Q.  Does it help to build a rapport with someone like that in these circumstances?  Can it do you good, do you think, to get a kind of special - not relationship of such - but you're playing, you get to know him more?

TIM HENMAN:  Soften him up a little bit, yeah, and try and find that... (Laughter).  We get on pretty well anyway.  I'm not certainly going to make the commitment to play with one particular player.  But I think I'm going to play with Santoro in Monte-Carlo.  And I'm not sure, Hewitt maybe in Rome and Hamburg.  I certainly like to play with those guys that return well.  And, again, it's matches.  I think any time you're winning matches, it's going to be a good thing.

Q.  You're going to play with Rusedski in Dusseldorf.  Any thoughts on that event, why you're playing that?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, Greg's been keen to play that on a number of occasions.  It hasn't really appealed to me.  But that's definitely more from Larry's point of view, because he certainly thinks it would be a good opportunity for him to sit on the court with me and be able to, you know, we're able to discuss things in matches  -- in practice, rather.  But that is as close as you'll get to a real match situation.  And, you know, if  -- certainly if that's what, you know, he'd like the opportunity, then I'm certainly prepared to give it a try.  I'm not saying I'm going to start playing every year, but...

Q.  Are there some things you set out to do then, having discussed them, but when it comes to the match you're not executing them?

TIM HENMAN:  No, not at all.  I couldn't complain with any aspect really as the sort of the development process.  But, you know, it's good to just have that immediate input instead of having to wait for the end of the match or just be able to try something different in the match.

Q.  There's a certain amount of variety, too?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.

Q.  Has Ecuador affected your relationship with Greg?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.  I think that was, no question, just the whole sort of buildup.  And the buildup was pretty difficult with September 11 and all that business.  That was a huge  -- it was a huge sort of bond for the whole team, not just the two of us.  Because I think we've  -- our relationship over the last two, three years has come a long way.  But that was definitely the whole  -- the best team atmosphere, the best Davis Cup that I've been a part of, because it was kind of us against them.  And we had a period of time where we had the players, we had Roger, we had Jeremy, we had  really a sort of good medical staff, and it was a great, you know, great buildup to it.  And with the history of the tie.  So, yeah, no, it's been great. 

Q.  You think, Tim, this experiment with the champions tiebreak, do you think that will achieve its goal in having more singles players play?

TIM HENMAN:  It is.  You go and speak in the locker room, and it's pretty divided.  The singles players think it's the greatest thing.  And you certainly will, you'll get a lot more singles guys wanting to play.   But, you know, the doubles guys, I think it makes it harder for them because it is  -- I think, perhaps, on more occasions the lesser team could win.  I think that's the reality of it, so that the established doubles guys are certainly not going to like it.  But from a singles point of view, I think you definitely would get a lot more people playing.   So, you know, who knows where it will lead.

Q.  Although last week and last week, (inaudible) they were not playing the champion tiebreak?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, that's right.  So it kind of contradicts what I've just said, but... (Laughter).  But, no, I think, you know,  we still think along the same lines  - that it's good to get a match in the conditions. 

Q.  Are you and Lleyton committed to staying in the doubles no matter how far you progress in doubles and how far you progress in singles? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  Right now, suddenly if we start playing three matches in singles and, you know, fatigue becomes an issue, then doubles is not the  -- is not quite as important.  That's not to say that certainly I'm -- I've always been of the nature  - and it's pretty clear that he is  - that when you step on the court, you're out there to win.  But, you know, singles is the priority. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT