WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2007
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Tim Henman.   
  
  Q.  That must be up there with some of the best occasions you've had here?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  I mean, I think the quality of the tennis, the sort of tone was set yesterday.  I sort of thought about the situation, stopping at 5-All.  I actually felt, you know, if I'd come out and won eight points or lost eight points straightaway, I felt the match was just going to be an anticlimax because it was such an incredible atmosphere.   
 But I think it sort of speaks volumes the way that we both came out and really continued where we left off.  The quality of tennis, the quality of the serving was so good.  You know, that's reflected by the score.  Obviously, you know, I was able to finally take one of the opportunities.   
  
  Q.  After your sixth match point, did you have any sort of nagging doubts at all?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think -- I didn't really have too many complaints.  The biggest complaint I had was the 15-40.  I think, if anything, I was so surprised to see a second serve.  I didn't really have a great plan of what I was trying to do on that point.   
 But, yeah, I mean, you'd like to finish on a running forehand pass to win it.  At that stage, you're very open to any gifts.  You know, there's not much disappointment it ended on a double-fault because the way he had played some of the other match points, it had been fantastic for him.  No, I was pretty happy to see it go long.   
  
  Q.  When was the last time you relished a match as much as you relished that one over the last couple days?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I mean, certainly not this year.  Yeah, there hasn't really been much to sort of get my teeth stuck into.  I've always felt like, you know, it's been documented my form hasn't been good coming in.  But this place is so special to me.  I've had so many experiences here over the years.  I always believe that good things are going to happen.   
 I certainly needed a lot of belief at 2-4, 15-40 in the fifth.  You know, I stuck to my guns and I played some great points to not only win that game but to break back and get on level terms.  It would have been pretty sweet to finish it off last night.  But I think now, having gone through that, playing as well as I did, perhaps this scenario is even better.   
  
  Q.  Given all the sweet moments that you just described, how do you think you'll look back on this match?   
 TIM HENMAN:  A lot of great memories and good thoughts going into the next match because, you know, I give Carlos so much credit.  If I'd have lost that match, which I obviously easily could have done, I would have been very disappointed.   
 But upon reflection, you look at the performance.  I'd have said, Well, you know what, the guy was probably too good if he played those big points.  So then to actually reflect now, having won the match, having played that level, it's a fantastic start for me.   
 But, you know, it is only a start and I want to build on that.   
  
  Q.  How did you sleep last night?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I knew that was going to be a question that I was asked (smiling).  I was talking with my trainer last night when I was getting a massage.  We were both sort of laughing.   
 It's never happened to me before, to be 5-All in the fifth.  If anything, we thought it was pretty amusing.  As I got into bed to go to sleep, the next thing it was 8:45, my alarm was going off.  I'm not just saying that.  I really don't have a problem.   
 When I played my semis here against Ivanisevic, I'm not the type to lie awake.   
  
  Q.  Years ago there was a Krajicek match that got called off late at night.   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Anything similar?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I mean, it's difficult.  Don't get me wrong.  5-All in the fifth, when you're playing through these games, what am I going to do in the first service game?  There are a lot of thoughts that go through your mind.  What is your strategy?  Where are you going to serve?   
 But, you know, those for me are thoughts when I'm on the practice court this morning.  You know, when you step up to the line, as long as you're committed to the plan of what you're going to do for that first point, you execute it and see what happens.   
 If you get distracted and start thinking about the score, thinking about match points that have gone begging, then you're not going to do a good job of playing the next point.   
 I don't think either one of us really could have done that any better this morning, or this afternoon.   
  
  Q.  How did the back pull out?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I felt good.  Knock on wood, I felt in good shape.  I haven't had any niggles.  But it's something that I always have to keep working on because I'm probably a little bit more vulnerable than I was in the past.   
 Yeah, I mean, I'm sure it was clear to see I was moving well, serving well.  Yeah, long may that continue.   
  
  Q.  You played many, many second serves today than usual,  so what attitude did you have?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think it's a reflection on the style of play of my opponent.  If I can make him return and then hit passing shots, that's a good combination.  I think he's obviously very strong when you get into a baseline rally with him.   
 The conditions, being that cold, it was really -- it was very slow.  The ball's not really going through the court.   
 Yeah, I just felt like every opportunity I could make him hit backhand passing shots it was going to give me the best opportunity.  He still hit a lot of good ones, but that was my underlying theme.   
  
  Q.  What did you think of the crowd's reaction?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's fantastic.  It's obviously different with the roof, or the lack of.  The atmosphere is second to none.  The support I've had, as I've always had, has been incredible.  I've used it to my advantage.  Today was another good example of that.   
  
  Q.  John McEnroe was saying that with López coming up tomorrow having a bit more time to rest than yourself, it might be an issue how you go into the match in terms fitness.  How are you feeling?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Fine.  Won't be an issue.  McEnroe has it wrong again.   
  
  Q.  You already mentioned the lack of the roof.  Did that make the court play differently?  Was the wind slightly different?   
 TIM HENMAN:  It was a little bit more breezy today.  I think two things.  Last night, to be playing at 20 past 9, I don't really think that would have happened when they had the roof on before.  You really thought there was a lot more light that was actually able to get on the court.   
 I think, secondly, which is similar, a related issue, I think the court is in fantastic condition.  I think maybe because it's had more sunlight, the grass is very sort of dense.  Before it got quite sparse.  You could see sort of the earth through the grass, whereas now it's in great shape.   
  
  Q.  Did they give you a choice last night?   
 TIM HENMAN:  No.  Carlos and I said, It's pretty dark now, isn't it?  So, yeah, we just felt like there was never going to be a great time to stop.  I think that was the best option.   
  
  Q.  You've already addressed all the pretournament speculation about retirement.  Did that spur you on at all, coming into the tournament?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I wouldn't really say it's a motivating factor because I know what I want to do.  All the speculation, the opinions, it never really had a great bearing on what I've done and what I do in my career.   
 You know, the day that I retire, I'll come out and tell you I've retired.  Until then, I'll keep playing.  Simple as that.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about your match tomorrow, López?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I mean, it's different.  I guess it is a different type of match playing a lefty.  Moya serve and volleyed definitely more than I thought he was going to.  He served phenomenally well, so consistently, very heavy.   
 López is going to be looking for the same type of thing, same strategy.  He's had good results on grass.  I think Moya hasn't really played a great deal on grass.  I don't know whether it was seeing Rafa play so well last year he thought, I'll give it a go.   
 Just goes to show so many opportunities for that type of guy to play well now.   
  
  Q.  Can you tell us about that second serve ace on breakpoint?  Did you decide to go for broke?   
 TIM HENMAN:  No, I didn't.  It was a well-executed serve.  I wouldn't say I went for broke.  Kick serve now works on grass.  You can get a lot of sideways movement on it.  I felt, again, if he's going to beat me, I want him to beat me with his backhand.   
 Absolutely, I hit it spot on.  I hit it short, up the court, got a lot of movement on it.  Yeah, time and place, it was a pretty good one.   
  
  Q.  In terms of the atmosphere, we all sense that cathedral-like focus wouldn't be there this year.  In a way, is it more open, more spontaneous or even better, God forbid?   
 TIM HENMAN:  No, I wouldn't say that.  I don't want this to be negative, but I prefer it the way that it was.  Hopefully when the roof is put in place, then it will look better again.  I just think it's missing something.  The view from, not the Royal Box end, when you're looking towards the Royal Box, it just looks bizarre.  It looks very sort of isolated, the Royal Box itself.   
 Then behind, it looks very small.  There's only sort of eight or ten rows of seating.  It's a very different complexion when you're out there.   
 In terms of the atmosphere, I don't think for me it hasn't had any effect.  It was incredible.   
  
  Q.  This could easily have been a quarterfinal or semifinal match here.   
 TIM HENMAN:  The level of play.   
  
  Q.  Surprised a few of your fans.  Now there's a lot of expectation.   
 TIM HENMAN:  It's a difficult one, the expectation, because everyone is saying I should retire.  But then they ask me how I should do, and they expect me to get to the second week.   
 But it's like, if you expect me to get to get to the second week, why do you want me to retire?  (Smiling)?  I'm trying to work that out.   
  
  Q.  Can they expect that?   
 TIM HENMAN:  They can expect what they want.  It's been happening for the last decade.  I haven't been able to control it yet, so...  (Smiling).   
  
  Q.  When Murray was out, did you feel the extra expectation coming up?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Felt like the world was on my shoulders (smiling).   
  
  Q.  All the support you get.  I was up on Henman Hill.  Describe the feeling.   
 TIM HENMAN:  I came here when I was six to watch the first time, six years old.  I was running around the outside courts, watching every match.  I went on Centre Court.  I remember those feelings.   
 Now I'm playing.  I'm at the center of it all.  There's this hill where everyone watches from, and it's Henman Hill.  I mean, it is, it's sort of tough to fathom.  It's been my dream.   
 You know, today's another time when I'm out there, you know, fulfilling my dreams.   
  
  Q.  As five-set matches go, where would that rank amongst your favorites?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I think very, very high, firstly because I won, and secondly because of the quality of tennis.  I just felt like, even when one person perhaps didn't quite play as well, it was when it coincided with the other player playing extremely well.   
 Right up until the last point, there just weren't really many rallies that were finishing with too many unforced errors.  It was one guy serving well.  I felt like I volleyed well, some good returns and stuff.  Yeah, it's very difficult to sort of grade them 1 to 10.   
  
  Q.  In the circumstances, the last two days.   
 TIM HENMAN:  It's very hard.   
  
  Q.  Everyone saying, Could you play another five-set match, win one?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Very hard.  No doubt about it.   
  
  Q.  We non-British writers thought we had written enough about you, then suddenly you give us today's story, for which we compliment you.  Was there a sense that this may turn out to be the most interesting match of the tournament?  We see all these sluggers at the baseline.  This was so interesting.  Did you have a feeling of great interest in this match?   
 TIM HENMAN:  There's no doubt that I was a little bit surprised by the way Moya served and also volleyed.  I knew he could serve big, but he served big consistently and he was hitting his spots very well, then he was following it to the net a lot more than I thought.   
 So, yeah, there's probably more volleys in that match than you're going to see in a lot of others combined.  Yeah, I've always said that I think that's important for the game.  You still want to have the contrast in styles.   
  
  Q.  Would you say you were playing for those people on the hill, as well?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Go on then, Nigel, yeah, I was playing for them (laughter).  Do you want a direct quote?  I was playing for those people (smiling).   
  
  Q.  Irrespective of how long you carry on, do you think it will always be Henman Hill?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Absolutely (smiling).   
  
  Q.  It was packed this afternoon.   
 TIM HENMAN:  It is, it's fantastic.  Can't see it when I'm on the court.  You sometimes see when they've got the camera on the crane.  Yeah, you see that atmosphere.  It's phenomenal.  It's a good place to be.  Not quite Centre Court, but it's good.   
  
  Q.  Do you and Andy Murray ever have a bit of banter whether it should be Murray Mount or Henman Hill?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, we do (smiling).   
  
  Q.  Who wins the argument?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I'm winning at the moment.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT