TMS - STUTTGART
October 18, 2001
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim. 


Q.  Your last 17 service points, you got 16 first serves in. 

TIM HENMAN:  Did I really (smiling)? 


Q.  You got better and better as the match went on, didn't you?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I certainly played pretty consistently throughout the whole match.  The first set was always going to be important.  We both played to a very, very high standard.  I had one breakpoint; he didn't have any.  That was always going to be fairly vital.  It was good to play such a solid tiebreak.  I was able to maintain that form.  I really can't have any complaints.  As was mentioned, I served very, very consistently.  There's a lot of satisfaction in that.


Q.  You did other things well.  Your movement was terrific. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I mean, I really can't  -- I think all aspects, I was very consistent.  From the baseline, when we had rallies, I was still getting the balance right of moving forward.  Obviously, I was attacking when I had the opportunity.  As ever, you know, so much of the game can revolve around the serve.  I did serve very consistently.  That, you know, keeps the baseline rallies down to a minimum sort of thing.  Obviously, it means I can serve and volley a lot.


Q.  How encouraging is that when you've been working so much on the serve, to see it coming through?

TIM HENMAN:  Exactly.  I've served pretty consistently in practice obviously.  The proof is putting it on the match court.  I don't think I've served that consistently for a long, long time.  It's good that the work that I've been doing is starting to pay dividends. 


Q.  Have they mended the court?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  It's better.  They have a few heavy-duty nails in there.  It seems to be playing all right. 


Q.  You were saying the other day you're trying not to let anything distract you, either thoughts about the tournament, where everybody else is, other things going around on the court.  Yet today you were quite irritated by some of the ball-boys' again.  What was going on there?

TIM HENMAN:  A lot of the times, you know, when they kneel at the side of the net, when they're waiting, they sort of have a habit of rocking to and fro.  So instead of just letting them continue to do it, it distracted me, I felt like if you say something, they stop.  That's pretty much what happened.


Q.  The way you came out and served in that opening game with two aces, that is a great way to start and get going. 

TIM HENMAN:  Sure, yeah.  Obviously, made a big impression to him when he hit four first serves and held to love.  You can't always expect that, though.  You know, like in any profession, you can have good days, bad days, and sometimes you can be a little bit slow starting; other days you can get off to fast starts.  I think I certainly couldn't complain with my quality of tennis.  Likewise, I think, Nick, for a set certainly, I don't think he can have too many complaints.  Second set perhaps he didn't play so well.  I'd like to think that I had something to do with that.  Sure, it's good when you feel that you've got a very clear understanding of what you're trying to do, then you can go out and try and execute that.


Q.  A couple of the people just behind you in the race when the week started are not going to get any more points.  You obviously noticed that.  How important now is this next one?  It could be Haas. 

TIM HENMAN:  Again, I'm obviously aware of that.  But, again, as somebody says, you get distracted by a ball kid.  You either let it distract you or you do something about it and get on with it.  Likewise, I'm aware that Federer lost, Corretja lost, some of those guys close behind me. 


Q.  Safin. 

TIM HENMAN:  Safin lost.  Again, to try and take advantage, you've got to do your job on the court.  That certainly has worked well.  But you also take into consideration that the matches are going to get tougher and tougher.  Even more reason to concentrate on what you're doing on the court. 


Q.  You have Sweden at home in this year's Davis Cup.  What are your thoughts on that?

TIM HENMAN:  Pretty fortunate, I think.  I don't know exactly, but I think the majority of the matches were looking like they could have been away.  That's certainly a good draw for us, to get a home tie.  Having said that, with Sweden's past Davis Cup record, their strength and depth, it certainly won't be easy.  But I think it increases our chances of progressing to the next round.


Q.  Just getting back to this match.  That's three wins in a row this year against Nicolas. 

TIM HENMAN:  Lost in Indian Wells, didn't I? 


Q.  Apart from the Indian Wells defeat, which renders my question completely useless (laughter). 

TIM HENMAN:  I've got a good record against him.  Again, it's all whether you can sort of dictate proceedings.  In the four matches I've won, I've obviously done that.  When I played him in Indian Wells, I served very inconsistently.  I got stuck on the baseline.  That plays into his hands.  Hence, I lose 4-4.  When I'm the one that's able to dictate play and use my attributes, I think I've got a good chance. 


Q.  That loss to Lapentti was a beginning of a changing time for you.  Six months on, how much progress do you feel you've made and how much can you carry forward?

TIM HENMAN:  That's a good question.  I certainly feel like there have been a lot of changes in my game.  That's been evident both on and off the court.  But, again, now that I've been working with Larry, I mean, it's still such a short period of time, when you take into consideration I worked with one coach nine years, now I've been working with a coach for, what is it, from August, September, October - three months - I'm so excited that I hear so much sort of input and I think so many things that can help my game.  I'm only scratching the surface, but I think it's already helped in quite a substantial fashion.  You know, as always, there are going to be ups and downs.  I really, really feel that I can gain a lot. 


Q.  If you wouldn't mind casting your mind forward again a little bit to the Sweden tie, how strong are our chances, do you think?

TIM HENMAN:  I should think Greg and I healthy, it's probably a 50/50 match perhaps.  We'd like to say that it's 51/49 in our favor (smiling).  You know, I don't think you can say that going into that match that either team is a clear favorite.  You know, as they've shown time after time, they can make the latter stages and win the competition.  I think it would be a phenomenal win for us.  I think we still fancy our chances. 


Q.  Is it a suitable reward for all the effort in Ecuador?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.  I think the hard work pays off.  It pays off that we win that match.  Sometimes you get a little bit of luck in your favor.  We've got a bit of luck there.  Now we've got to try to take advantage of it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT