TMS - STUTTGART
October 9, 2001
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim. 


Q.  Bit of a contrast.  You made a brilliant start and he made a brilliant finish. 

TIM HENMAN:  That's right.  I can't have too many complaints.  I think this is one occasion when you've got to say that he deserved it with the way he played in the second and third sets.  I think, you know, it was pretty plain to see early on who was dictating play, and I couldn't have asked for more.  Probably the match boils down to the last two games of the second set.  I did well to get back from 15-40, have the game point, then had a tough backhand smash, which I missed, which was pretty much the only volley I missed all evening.  He broke that game.  I had Love-40 in the next game.  He was able to finish that off.  That's disappointing from my point of view, but I think that's good tennis from him.


Q.  The crowd got more involved in the second set.  In the midst of the second set, did that have any impact on the game?

TIM HENMAN:  I don't think so.  I've certainly enjoyed that type of support myself.  Having said that, at that level, being a professional player, you don't really let that type of thing bother you. 


Q.  How frustrated are you feeling at the moment?

TIM HENMAN:  Disappointing anytime you lose.  I say that every time you ask me how disappointed I am.  Having said that, I know if I keep playing the way I have been, good things will happen.  I have absolutely no doubt about that.  I always felt that it was going to boil down to probably the last tournament in Paris, and I still feel the same way.  It's going to be a close-run thing.  I like the position I'm in. 


Q.  Accepting that he obviously got a lot better as the match progressed, did you feel your own forehand and first serve percentage towards the end went away?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.  I didn't feel like the ball was quite coming through, whether I was moving up to it enough.  I lost a bit of rhythm on my forehand, no doubt.  On my serve, it was patchy compared to my match against Lapentti.  If I'm going to have a bad day serving, and I'm serving at 59%, I think that's certainly the positive to take out of it.  It's an area that has improved, and will continue to improve. 


Q.  Against someone like him, do you have to press that much more because he's going to come at you every opportunity?

TIM HENMAN:  Again, you have to take into consideration your opponent's game.  But I think it's important that you worry about your own game.  You know, there were times when I felt like I was the one who was dictating on my serve when I was picking the spots well.  You know, in any match, you start missing your first serves, it gives your opponent a better look.  The game he broke me in the third set, he tends to hit a lot of drop volleys on his volleys.  I mean, that's known.  But you execute them that well, there's not a lot you can do. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT