US OPEN
September 1, 2001
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim, please.  
 
 
Q.  Your feelings after that?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, disappointment.  No question.  It's a scenario that I've been through, and it doesn't get any easier.  It is, at the moment, it's very disappointing.  
 
Q.  It was going for you in the final set?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I was beginning to turn things around.  But, you know, from the first game today it was a struggle.  Things weren't  -- things weren't happening easy for me.  Never really felt comfortable on my serve.  I didn't feel like I had a great deal of rhythm.  And in the type of conditions we were playing in, it's tough to take those risks.  And, you know, you want to just be as consistent and solid as you can.  Having said that, you know, I've got to still try and remain positive, try and play to my strengths.  But I wasn't able to do that enough.  
 
Q.  Early on you both looked as if you were a bit nervous and tense.  Is that a fair assessment?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think, yeah, I think we were both a little bit tight.  But having said that, I think we weren't helped by the conditions.  You want to sort of settle down into a rhythm of hitting your shots, executing your shots.  But, you know, it took a while for that to happen.  And, you know, I was just trying to remain as patient as possible because, you know, there was no  -- wasn't a question of trying harder.  It was a question of just trying to create some opportunities and, you know, I took some to a certain extent.  Having said that, once I was up in the fifth, I needed to really then press on again.  But I don't think I was, in all honesty, playing quite well enough. 
 
Q.  What are the mental ramifications of looking over, seeing a guy who you know as well as David, who knows your game, coaching the other guy?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Obviously for you guys it's a story.  It's an interesting story.  But for me, you know, it's business out there.  It's a match between Xavier and myself.  I'd be lying if I said it wasn't a little bit strange that someone that's been associated with me for so long was sort of at the other end of the court.  But, you know, I'm out there playing the ball.  It doesn't have any effect on the match. 
 
Q.  I'm talking technically now.  The fact that he knows things about your forehand, your volley.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Sure.  But I think at this level and, you know, the amount that we're around all the other players, there aren't too many secrets, are there?  We practice together week in, week out.  And, you know, as it was today, it, you know, was a pretty close match.  All credit to him.  He stuck in there and, you know, played very well.  Got to give him credit.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised by his game?  Was it what you expected?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think everybody knows, again, you know, we know each other's games and there's no question he's got an enormous amount of ability.  And, you know, he hit a lot of great shots today.  And, you know, I was under no illusions.  I knew it was going to be difficult.  But, you know, I think if I could have played a fraction better, I might have been able to win. 
 
Q.  Pete just came in and said he knows you have a lot of major championships in you.  It's just a matter of time and lifting it that little bit of a level?  Does it fortify you or does it make this kind of loss tougher to take?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I've certainly got a lot of self-belief in my own ability.  I think right now I've got to a certain level, which is a pretty good level.  You know, I've been from eight to twelve in the world for quite some time.  Now it's a question of making that next step.  And, you know, I certainly don't have any doubts that I will, because I know that with my work ethic and the ability I have, I will get better.  But that doesn't, you know, that doesn't hide how frustrating it is to lose because that's what we're here for - to win. 
 
Q.  Is that next level for you technical, physical or mental?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Could be a combination of all three.  I certainly feel I can still get quicker.  I think technically, there are certain aspects that I can improve on and I'll keep working on them.  
 
Q.  Would you say most disappointing today was your serve?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.  I felt that it's an area that I've been working on.  I wouldn't expect it to change overnight.  But I've had a lot better serving days.  But, you know, from the beginning, I was struggling with my rhythm I think.  You know, it never really sort of fell into a slot.  And that's difficult.  Because, obviously, my game is, a lot of it is based around my serve.  When you've got a guy returning as well as he does, you need to be serving well. 
 
Q.  Talk about the conditions.  Are you referring to the wind?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it was very swirly.  It was changing direction a lot of the time.  And, you know, the sun was quite bright to begin with.  That's, early on that's pretty much where the ball toss was.  But then it moves off.  
 
Q.  What's the plan for you for the next week or so?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I have some time off, obviously.  I'll, you know, have a bit of a break and then got to get my game ready for Ecuador because that's going to be another really important week of tennis. 
 
Q.  Xavier gives a lot of credit to David Felgate for the way he's acting and how he led him to where he is.  Can you explain a little bit better what are the qualities of David in a coach?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, looking at my game, I think he helped me an enormous amount.  You know, I started with him as a professional.  And, you know, he taught me a lot about the game and a lot about playing to one's strengths and worked on all aspects of my game.  I think it's evident to see that, you know, he's been having success with Malisse.  I don't think people should be surprised by that.  You've got a player that's very talented and you've got an experienced coach.  Put the two together and I think you're going to have good results. 
 
Q.  Are his qualities mostly on the technical side or psychological side?  Because that is maybe what Malisse needs.
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think he's very good mentally.  He's good at making sure that you don't give too much away and playing to your strengths and trying to maximize your abilities.  And that's obviously working well.  
 
Q.  As you train for Ecuador, is there one aspect of your game that you're going to work on?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, it's another adjustment, isn't it, changing surface, going on to the clay.  It's going to be  -- it's going to have to change your mindset a little bit because you're going to have to remain a little bit more patient than playing on these types of courts.  But, again, it's going to be a good challenge from a tennis point of view and from a mental point of view because I think it will be, you know, it will be a pretty live atmosphere to play in.  The vast majority of support will be for Ecuador, and we've got to come up with the goods on the court.  
 
Q.  Are you going home for a few days or staying in America?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, I'll go home.  Go home for a while, then obviously we've got the camp in Miami.  
 
Q.  The last couple of months you've gone from having that period on the clay court season of practically being your own coach, looking after yourself, exploring your game, trying out new things.  Then getting to Wimbledon semifinals, so close to the final.  After which then you got in with Larry.  You've been sort of working on many aspects, including your serve among the list of it.  Do you think the time span has been a little bit crowded for you really to be ready here with all the technical changes that's been made?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, I don't think you really have a  -- you don't really have a say in that, do you?  Because you're not going to miss these tournaments, are you?  But I think the work that we're trying to implement in my game is going to take time, and I certainly know that and appreciate that, and so does Larry.  And we'll continue to work on the aspects.  But, you know, these things don't change overnight.  And first and foremost, it is frustrating to lose the match.  That's what I'm interested in right now.  But, you know, as I said, to know that my game is going to keep developing is a good sign for me.  
 
Q.  Did you see David in the locker room after the match?  Did he say anything to you at all?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, I haven't seen him.  
 
Q.  Did you sense that you weren't imposing your game on that match?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, I was imposing it because I was still trying to play to my strengths.  But I don't think I was  -- I don't think in all honesty either of us were doing a particularly good job of that.  He was obviously up a break twice.  Had set points early  - at 6-5 rather, he had set points in the tiebreaker.  I was pretty relieved, pleased to get the first set under my belt, but I still knew that I had to try and prove.  And, you know, didn't really happen. 
 
Q.  If you were to come here next year as being the holder of the Wimbledon championship, it obviously would be a dream come true for you.  If you had to narrow it down to one thing that you had to do to make that dream come true, just one thing to focus on, what would that be?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I'd keep working on my serve.  
 
Q.  Have you said you've been 100 percent physically at all?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Certainly not in my first match.  I'm not quite sure what the story was, I didn't feel particularly well at all.  But no question in the second and third matches I felt 100 percent, to play I think  -- I don't know how long we played, three and a half hours.  It was, you know, I certainly didn't feel any problems physically or mentally.  So, no, that's not an excuse.  
 
Q.  Was there anything that he did today that surprised you at all, perhaps you weren't expecting?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I suppose in all honesty, you know, I was hoping for him to have some more mental ups and downs.  But, you know, he kept his head really well.  You know, it would have been easy for him in the first set, having had opportunities, to get frustrated.  But he kept his level of play very high, and that's, you know, again that's where you give him credit. 
 
Q.  You're recognized for being very honest in your verdict.  When you go away from here, will this be considered an opportunity lost?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  I think the original plan was to review the situation with Larry.  Is that still the case, or do you think it's probably worth while extending that period?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, again, I've really enjoyed the past five, six weeks, whatever it's been.  And, you know,  I'd certainly like it to continue.  But it's not something we've really given a great deal of thought.  Hopefully, Larry's thinking along the same lines. 
 
Q.  You've heard the good news, have you?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No. 
 
Q.  England, 5; Germany 1.  From one nil down.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Really?  There's the silver lining.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT