US OPEN
August 30, 2001
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim.  
 
 
Q.  That was a lot more reassuring and comforting, I would imagine. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it was.  For two sets I thought it was, you know, very, very solid, very few errors, taking my opportunities.  I was very frustrated actually at the beginning of the third set because my thought process coming out to serve at Love-1 was, you know, "I gave Vacek the opportunity to get involved in the match."  I thought to myself, "Let's really play a good, solid game, keep the momentum going my way."  The first point I think is the one that cost me, it being a routine volley.  I missed that.  Didn't play the best of games.  Suddenly there is a momentum swing.  But, you know, it did frustrate me.  But once it's happened, you've got to accept it and get on with it.  Having said that, it certainly gave him a lift.  He starts serving more consistently.  He makes more first serves.  I can't chip and charge on his second serve.  More baseline points.  It was difficult after that.  But I was pleased with the way I regained my rhythm in the fourth set.  
 
Q.  How is the stomach?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, no, I felt pretty good on Tuesday.  Wednesday I was a hundred percent.  I think it showed in my game.  I served pretty consistently.  But I think my volleying at the net was very, very good today.  
 
Q.  Do you feel that frustration creeping over you in a situation like that to a point where you almost find yourself arguing with yourself, "This shouldn't be happening"? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think at 2-Love, once I lost the game, there was definitely an element of frustration.  There was a lot of talking going on in my head.  But, again, you know, I'm not then going to dwell on it because I know I'm only doing myself harm.  Having said that, I was pretty frustrated.  You know, I think he obviously played a good third set.  You know, I lost my serve once.  I don't think I should suddenly start panicking about that.  That's why I still felt good about my position in the match.  I picked up my percentages again in the fourth set and served really, really consistently.  
 
Q.  To fight so hard in the first two rounds, to have prevailed, does that give you a sense, "I can be down and stick it out"? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think I've always sort of prided myself that I've been able to be mentally strong in difficult situations.  I think the first match was definitely a big, big struggle.  Having said that, I think today's was a little bit more straightforward.  I felt like my game plan was a lot more clear in my mind because I felt I knew what to expect.  Obviously, I've seen Melingeni play a great deal.  Playing someone you haven't played at all is sometimes a bit tricky. 
 
Q.  Is it good, too, that you've come through two matches on that court?  It can be distracting. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I like that court.  Having said that, you're right, it can have more movement than most.  Having said that, I think the conditions are good.  Whichever court you play on, I like the way the courts are playing.  The ball is pretty quick.  It does, it certainly suits my game well. 
 
Q.  There's obviously an intriguing background to the next round. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Sure. 
 
Q.  Any thoughts on it?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, there is.  I think it's something you guys will focus on a little bit more.  It's inevitable there will be a certain amount of talk.  From my point of view, being a professional, it's a match between myself and Malisse.  I'm sure he feels pretty good about his game.  Certainly a good win beating Santoro.  I'll be going out there doing my best to continue the way I've been playing.  
 
Q.  What do you think Dave will sketch out for him?  What do you think the points will be that he will try to pick out for him?
 
TIM HENMAN:  He knows my game better than most, doesn't he?  Again, that's not what I'm going to be concentrating on.  I'm concentrating on my game.  I feel there are a lot of positive aspects for me to focus on.  You know, I feel like I know a little bit about Malisse.  I'll just have to try and influence my game. 
 
Q.  Do you think you have tendencies to hit certain shots in certain situations that really only a coach and a player would pick up on over the years that he might impart to Malisse?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Say that again.  
 
Q.  Do you think there are any tendencies in your game?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I'm sure there are. 
 
Q.  Certain shots, certain situations that might be of any assistance? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, in this day and age, at this level, I don't think there are too many hidden secrets between the top guys because we see each other play week in, week out.  We practice with each other.  You know, I don't think Malisse is going to be expecting me to stay on the baseline too much during the match.  But, again, you know, I know that the way to approach any type of match is to concentrate on what I'm doing.  If I'm worried about what my opponent's up to, then my concentration isn't where it's meant to be, and that will affect my performance.  You know, I'll just continue the way I have been. 
 
Q.  From when do you use a new racquet?
 
TIM HENMAN:  From Queen's. 
 
Q.  Any difference between the new model?
 
TIM HENMAN:  A little bit.  It's slightly heavier in the head, moves sort of the balance point a little bit further towards the head of the racquet.  I think that helps, probably helps a little bit my serve.  I get a little bit more momentum going through the ball without having to try any harder.  So I think the way I served on the grass and the way I've been serving recently, add to that some of the aspects that Larry has been working on, it seems to be going well. 
 
Q.  Patrick Rafter after his match last night made an interesting comment I wish he would have elaborated on.  He pointed out at night his kicker doesn't kick as high as it does during the daylight hours.  Do you have any explanation for why that would happen?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it's hotter during the day.  It's hotter during the day.  Therefore, the rubber in the ball is a little livelier, and therefore it probably bounces higher.  I don't think there's a great deal else to it.  I think that is common during the night matches.  It's always going to play a little bit slower because there is not so much heat.  
 
Q.  Is the relationship with Larry developing along the lines you hoped it would?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, very much so.  Again, I came into it with an open mind.  I very much enjoyed it.  I certainly feel like he's had a lot to offer from a technical and a tactical point of view.  You know, I certainly like what I hear.  I hope he's beginning to like what he sees (smiling).  
 
Q.  Will you be coming out to the desert to practice with Larry? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.  I haven't got that far really.  I do enough traveling to want to start traveling in my off-season. 
 
Q.  It's not all bad out there. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, it's nice.  Got some nice golf courses.  It's not all bad in London either. 
 
Q.  It's been, what, about six or seven weeks since Wimbledon, all the Henmania, all the things that happened.  Can you talk about how different it is here obviously, and if you actually enjoy it?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I do.  I've answered that question quite a few times, normally at this time of year.  I say that Wimbledon is my favorite time of year, and it always will be.  Having said that, when I do come to the States, there is slightly less attention, slightly less spotlight.  I enjoy being able to go about my business without quite so much interest.  Having said that, the circumstances and all the scenarios at Wimbledon, I love it and I thrive on that.  But it's good to come here and get on with things.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT