WIMBLEDON
July 8, 2001
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  First question for Tim, please.  
 
 
Q.  First of all, bad luck. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Thank you. 
 
Q.  But congratulations on a great, great run through The Championships. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Thank you.  
 
Q.  Very heartening.  Obviously, we'd like to know what are your feelings at this moment about the way it's gone in this match?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, first and foremost, it is disappointing.  You know, in the circumstances, it feels like it's been a pretty long three days.  But it's certainly been the same for both of us.  You know, I have to give Goran credit for the way that he played.  It was a tough, tough match, but he was the one that came out on top. 
 
Q.  How much do you look back on the rain break on Friday being the defining moment, because it was all going in your way?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It certainly was in my favour at that time.  You know, sometimes those breaks can hinder you, sometimes they can help you.  It certainly helped me I think against Todd Martin.  But having won 10 of 11 games at that stage, I think I was sort of in the process of dismantling his game.  You know, to come back the following day, he obviously gets a chance to regroup, regain his rhythm with his serve.  You know, that was obviously what happened.  But, you know, I can't complain about that.  
 
Q.  How much do you regret not being first on court on Friday?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, no regrets at all.  You know, whatever the situations you're in, you've got to deal with them, and you've got to deal with them as best you can.  And I know that, you know, I certainly did my best. Unfortunately, it wasn't good enough this year.  But I certainly know that, you know, I'll be back for many more tries.  You know, I think I'm right in saying that  -- I've said most years that, you know, I believe I'll win this tournament.  You know, it certainly isn't any different this year. 
 
Q.  How stressful is not just one overnight wait but two overnight waits?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Sure, it's difficult.  I'd be lying if I said it was easy.  But you just have to deal with those circumstances.  If we could control the weather, then obviously you wouldn't try and put yourself in that situation.  As I said, sometimes it works in your favour, and sometimes it doesn't.  I think, in all honesty, it didn't work in my favour with the first break.  But that's the way it goes. 
 
Q.  Is there any irony in the fact that the All England Club gave Goran a wildcard into this tournament?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's something that he definitely deserved, with his record here, you know, his previous sort of troubles in the last year or 18 months.  If it was my decision, I certainly would have given him one.  Having said that, you know, to lose to him today is frustrating, but irrelevant of whether he's a wildcard or not. 
 
Q.  Have you experienced ever before the kind of emotional rollercoaster the last three or four days have been, when you consider the Martin match was held over, play Federer, three starts against Goran?  Can you try and encapsulate how these last few days have been?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Probably not, no.  I think I played three days consecutively with the Martin and Federer match, and then had a break, then it's been three days on the go.  It's tough.  
 
Q.  Toughest experience ever?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think the most difficult circumstances off the court, to deal with just that scenario.  But, again, you know, in a two-horse race, it's the same for both of you.  I certainly don't feel like it affected me.  I felt I dealt with it as best I could.  You know, I had to come out here and just keep trying to play the way I did.  Because, you know, if I look at the match, analyze what happened, you know, I lost my serve twice in a five-set match.  You know, that's why I certainly give him a lot of credit. 
 
Q.  The situation over the last three days, is it time they consider putting a roof over Centre Court?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't think so, no.   I think that would affect the way the grass is.  It's obviously a topic of conversation when the weather is bad at the end of the tournament.  If it's the other way around, the weather's not so good at the beginning of the tournament, then you probably don't get into quite as many problems.  I certainly wouldn't be in favour of one. 
 
Q.  How about starting earlier in the day? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, they've obviously moved it forward an hour this year for the first time.  You know, I wouldn't be opposed to playing at 12:00.  It's not a problem.  Obviously, there is a limit to how early you can start on grass with the dew.  But, you know, it's not really an issue of mine.  I've got far more important things to worry about than what time play starts here. 
 
Q.  Leaving aside the interruptions, although you feel you did as well as you could,  is there anything you would have done differently with hindsight in the course of the match? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, certainly not.  There are always going to be shots that you missed that you don't want to miss, sometimes aces that you don't want served against you.  You know, that is the nuts and bolts of sport.  You know, that's why  I can't second guess myself. As always, when I stepped on the court, you know, I tried my hardest.  You know, unfortunately, he came back.  With regards to my game, I know that it's certainly come a long way.  I'll make sure that I keep improving.  
 
Q.  He was clearly very nervous, the tension was great out there when he was serving for the match.  How much of a factor today do you think was the fact that he was actually able to serve first and you were always playing catch up? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, that's a scenario, isn't it, with all final sets - with any set of tennis really.  Especially on a fast surface, it helps to be serving first.  You know, what more is there to say?  You know, he did well.  
 
Q.  Does this loss hurt more than the two previous semis, given that everything seemed to be going in your favour, the draw seemed to open up for you?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's probably a little early to start, you know, analyzing that.  It is, it's always very disappointing when you lose.  But it's sort of strange, because I've just lost a match, but I only played four games today.  So, you know, it's a feeling I haven't really had before.  You know, you've got to deal with it. 
 
Q.  What will you be doing tonight, Tim?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Haven't got that far either.  
 
Q.  Have you been able to try and put the emotions aside?  Obviously, the expectations have grown as the days have gone by. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think in all honesty, there's been the sort of inquisitive side of me that has in a way wanted to know what's been going on.  But I think it's one of my good points, one of my assets, is that I can stay pretty much oblivious to what is actually happening.  It is difficult to avoid, isn't it, if you're on the news or in the newspaper all the time?  But I think that is an aspect that I handled pretty well, that I haven't really got caught up in what's been happening off the court.  But it's a great thing to be part of, just for me first and foremost on the court, to play with the type of support that I've had.  It is what it's all about.  It's what you put in all the training for.  That's why, you know, I'll make sure that I come back to do even better here. 
 
Q.  I know you just got off the court, really tough loss, but in your gut, do you think Tim Henman can win the championship?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Without doubt.  I've always believed that.  I certainly feel, with my game, I'm better than the vast majority of these players, certainly on grass.  Add to that the fact of playing at home, playing with the support I have.  I certainly in my heart know that I will win.  But it's my job to make sure that I, you know, keep doing the training, keep working at my game to make those improvements.  You know, we'll just have to wait and see whether I achieve it. 
 
Q.  Is it at all a concern of yours that there are a phalanx of young players who are obviously coming through, and in a way obviously you're a young player yourself, but these guys are improving very, very quickly  - people like Satch, Hewitt, et cetera?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Sure. 
 
Q.  They will be closer to you on grass next year?
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's the challenge, isn't it?  You've always got to deal with, you know, the different generations that are coming up.  But that's what you've got to see, the standards, and you've got to keep raising your own standards.  I know I've certainly done that.  I've certainly continued to improve my game, and that's important.  If I stay static, then those types of players, they'll overtake you.  You know, as I said, in my heart, I think I will win here.  
 
Q.  You were talking about remaining oblivious to what's going on.  Can you tell us what you do in these horrible delays?  Do you not read the papers, not listen to the radio? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's difficult to read.  You know, other guys, it's not like you can ban newspapers in the locker room or something.  But I certainly don't read them.  I don't pay a great deal of attention to the experts out there.  I'm just worried about, you know, what I'm trying to do.  That's why, you know, I believe in myself.  You know, what other people say, it doesn't really concern me or interest me a great deal.  So that's why I've been able to remain partly oblivious.  It's impossible to block it out totally.  But I think it certainly helps me. 
 
Q.  Who would you expect to the final, on current form?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Again, I think it's a 50/50 match, isn't it?  It's a great story, isn't it?  Certainly you would have thought that it's their last chance for either of them.  From what Rafter says, this may be his last Wimbledon.  Perhaps this is Goran's last chance.  Good luck to both of them.  If I had to pick a winner, I'd pick Rafter. 
 
Q.  Goran said he had God on his side.  Who did you have on yours?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.  I had a lot of people here.  He obviously had someone pretty important, as well (smiling). 
 
Q.  Do you regret not having a coach now?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, not at all. 
 
Q.  How quickly will you now look for one?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Again, it's something that, given a bit of time, I'll start investigating.  As I said, I think it's an important area.  I certainly want to get a coach.  But I'm not just going to get any old coach.  I want to make sure I choose the right person for the job.  Just have to wait and see if anyone's available. 
 
Q.  Were there any pluses at all in not having a coach, of really having to dig in and rely on your own self?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think it's been another challenge, a good test for me.  I think it's been a good mental learning process.  It certainly, you know, made me a little more away about certain aspects of my game, certain shots.  It's been a positive for me.  I think I've made it into a positive.  But this game's hard enough as it is, let alone trying to do it on your own.  That's why I've said that I'd like to get a coach. 
 
Q.  In what way?  Which shots did it give you a greater awareness of?
 
TIM HENMAN:  You have to think about everything, don't you?  If you're not getting any input, you have to think it out for yourself.  Every shot you hit, you have to try and analyze and see what's going on. 
 
Q.  You said quickly you thought it was 50/50, the final.  Would you like to see Goran win it, because it is a fabulous story?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It is, it's an incredible story.  You know, this is his fourth final.  You know, I think he'll certainly feel pressure from that aspect.  It's going to be a question of, you know, how well he deals with it.  Good luck to the both of them.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT