WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2001
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Thank you, Ladies and Gentlemen.  First question for Tim.  
 
 
Q.  Was it as tough as it looked?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yes.  Certainly for a set and a half, it was pretty uncomfortable out there.  I felt like I had a sort of clear understanding of the way I thought I needed to play, and certainly my game plan that had worked in the past, worked in Paris, was to try to attack his second serve.  I was thinking about chipping and charging, trying to serve into his body a lot to not let him swing at the returns.  But for a set and a half he was making life very, very difficult.  I think mostly with his first serve and second serve.  The reality was, I was just trying to get the thing back, let alone try and chip and charge on it, which wasn't a possibility, because he was serving and volleying on both balls.  That took me a little bit by surprise, and I had to adjust to that.  
 
Q.  When you were actually serving to try and save that first set, that was probably the best game you played up to that point.  Did that sort of, in a way, turn things your way?  Although you lost that game, it looked to me as though your whole mood changed in that game. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I certainly wasn't moving particularly well.  I didn't have a great rhythm on my serve.  You know, you have to expect that from time to time.  You can't always come on the court and expect things to flow and to be timing the ball exactly as you would like.  Add to that the fact that my opponent was, you know, outplaying me.  He was getting on to my first and second serve.  You know, I felt the biggest issue was his serve because I felt it could be vulnerable, but it certainly wasn't for a long period.  To turn it around as I did, you know, is really, really satisfying.  I think I take a lot of positives away from that because I was the one that upped my game and really turned the match around.  
 
Q.  It was almost, as I say, in that particular game, you lost the game, but you turned yourself around in that game. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  Having said that early on in the second set, you know, still wasn't looking pretty for me.  I was the one that was hanging on my serve on a couple of occasions, missing some volleys that I shouldn't miss.  You have to weather those storms, you know, had to get the crowd a little more involved, get myself a little more fired up.  Things started to turn.  I started to get on my return games, started to take some opportunities.  You know, end of the third set, I felt like it was some pretty good tennis at the right time for me.  
 
Q.  I don't recall you ever quite having to play the role of cheerleader before.  You had to go out and give them a bit of fist. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  In all honesty, I don't think I was giving them the ammunition to work with because he was the one that was hitting the winners and making the plays.  I was sort of reacting a lot of the time.  But I think that's something that I was aware of.  I needed to up my game, try and create some chances.  Then when I did, I broke at 3-2, a couple of big points in the game at 4-2.  That certainly got me going, got them fired up as well.  That was when the match slowly started to change.  Again, early in the third set, I get that Love-40 game, couldn't break him.  You know, the mirror image game for him the following service game.  We both held.  But I felt like I was turning the tables a little bit. 
 
Q.  Did Greg's straight-set win put any extra pressure on you?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, not at all.  You know, he obviously played a really solid, efficient match to beat Ferrero as easily as he did.  But I knew I had to focus on my match.  I was under no illusions.  I knew it wasn't going to be easy.  And it certainly wasn't.  I think now, looking back on it, it's probably the ideal match for me because I didn't play five sets, I wasn't on the court for four hours.  But I certainly knew I was in a battle.  I had to come up with some good tennis in pressure situations.  
 
Q.  Do you think this will prepare you for the next match then?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It certainly helps.  I feel very, you know, pleased to have got through it, very pleased with the way I'm playing.  And, again, you know, to play Martin in the fourth round, it's going to be even tougher. 
 
Q.  Is it good early on to have a scare like this, to keep you on your toes, keep you sharp?
 
TIM HENMAN:  To a certain extent.  You want to put yourself under the spotlight a little bit in matches.  But having said that, you know, that was, I felt, plenty close enough because if I lose my serve early in the second, then he keeps playing, gets a bit more confident .  I could be down two sets.  Having said that, after two pretty straightforward  -- the first two matches, it's good to have had a real test.  Pleased with the way I came through it. 
 
Q.  In the absence of a coach, you admit you have things to work on this weekend.  How do you go through those?  Obviously very different from Wimbledons in the past. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, not really.  Obviously, I feel like I've got an understanding of what I need to work on.  In the first set, my rhythm wasn't quite right with my serve.  That's something that can be addressed.  It's not the easiest conditions.  It's pretty windy, pretty swirly out there.  The light is changing a lot.  Perhaps an indoor court might be a good idea just to get that rhythm back.  But, you know, I don't think there are too many areas I should be concerned about.  
 
Q.  What do you remember from that meeting with him in 1996? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  It was obviously a pretty close encounter.  It was just one break in the match, I think.  He's a dangerous grass court player.  He's got a very good record.  He's got a pretty good record on every surface.  He's been in big-match situations before.  I think at this stage, these types of tournaments, it's going to boil down to who plays best on the day.  I obviously hope that's going to be me.  
 
Q.  You said before that he was playing serve and volley on the first and second service.  You can feel he's not a natural serve and volley player, so you can wait for his service faltering a bit. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's what I hoped.  In all honesty, I was trying to tell myself that, to keep myself positive, keep my fingers crossed that his level would drop because he was, you know, serving so consistently, no double-faults, he was serving a high percentage of first serves.  When he missed his first serve, he was backing it up with big second serves in the corner.  It wasn't particularly enjoyable for me at that stage, but I had to, you know, keep fighting, keep remaining positive.  I knew that I would get my chances at some stage.  It was pretty satisfying when I took them, not only in the second set, but then in the 4-All game in the third, and obviously to get two breaks in the fourth.  
 
Q.  To come back from Love-40 in the third set. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  We both did, didn't we?  I could have easily broken to go up 2-1, and he could have easily broken me straight back.  As it was, we both hit good serves at the right times, got ourselves out of trouble.  I think the third set was critical. 
 
Q.  How much do you think it was the way you picked up your returns in the third, and then all those double-faults from him in the fourth?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think that's when I felt the momentum was changing.  As you say, from early on in the second set, there was a period when I really felt like my serve began to click.  I wasn't really under so much pressure from then on.  I was trying to be as aggressive as possible on my first serves, moving my second serve around.  I was holding my serve more comfortably.  That gives you more confidence.  I started to return a little better.  I think he began to feel that.  As you say, then he started to stay back a little bit.  That was a good sign for me.  I was playing, you know, very consistent, very aggressive tennis. 
 
Q.  Could you say how you generally feel at the end of the first week?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I'm coming back to play on Monday.  That's the most important thing.  When I analyse my performances, I think they've been pretty solid.  I feel confident with my game.  There's obviously a long, long way to go.  
 
Q.  It's natural to feel the mania in this country, or do you feel pressure going to the next week?
 
TIM HENMAN:  The first two matches, it was pretty one-sided.  The second one, playing a fellow Brit, it was a little bit subdued.  I think everybody that was out there in the sort of latter stages of the third and fourth as I got on top, you know, it was getting pretty noisy.  That's certainly the way I like it.  I enjoyed the atmosphere right the way through to the end.  
 

Q.  What are your plans for the weekend?  Just practise?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, nothing particularly strenuous.  No, just, as I said, I think with the conditions, it's been pretty tricky out there.  You know, I might fancy hitting a few balls on an indoor court just to work on the rhythm, get the feel from the back of the court, as well.  You know, then I'll probably just hit here on Sunday for an hour.  
 
Q.  With it being a Sunday break here, doesn't happen at the other Grand Slams, you play Friday, you get through, does the fact that you have two days, it's not because of weather or anything like that, does that suddenly feel a bit strange?  You don't often have that length of time between matches, do you?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, that's true.  But who knows.  I mean, I certainly don't think it's a problem.  I'll enjoy having a fairly relaxing weekend.  But definitely, you know, keep working on those aspects.  But, no, it's not normal in the other Slams, obviously.  Probably give some of you guys a day off, as well (smiling).  Sorry.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT