WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2001
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  I.  First question to Tim, please. 


Q.  Are you relieved to get that one over?

TIM HENMAN:  I'm pleased.  The first round I think at any tournament I think is sometimes not the easiest match.  Playing someone that I didn't know a great deal about.  I had to go out there and sort of try and feel my way into it.  You know, as the score line suggests, I was really pleased with the performance. 

Q.  It was obviously very, very hot out there, very warm, certainly for those watching. 

TIM HENMAN:  Sure.

Q.  Was there a bit of a breeze that maybe we weren't aware of that maybe played with the serve a little bit?

TIM HENMAN:  I think more so early, on the sun.  That was the difficult factor.  At sort of 20 past 1, half past 1, it's a difficult time for me.  If the sun's out, that's pretty much from one end where I want to put my ball toss.  You have to make a few adjustments to avoid looking straight into the sun.  You know, in the game that I lost my serve, in all honesty, I struggled with that a couple times.  Following the serve in, I had a few spots in my eyes.  It's difficult to volley if you can't see it.

Q.  I just wanted to know what it was like being on an outside court for a change?

TIM HENMAN:  Different.  I suppose I wasn't expecting to play on Court 2, having played I think 26, 27 matches on Court 1 or centre court.  But it certainly wasn't a problem for me.  Court 2 is where I won my first ever match at Wimbledon.  You know, I've got good memories on that court.  It's been a while since I played there.  Yeah, I enjoyed it out there.  Having said that, I look forward to getting back on Court 1 or centre court. 

Q.  It's been said that not having a coach could be an advantage because it's been alleged that you would have to sort of prepare mentally more deliberately and consciously, help you to think quicker on your feet when you're out there.  Is that actually the case?

TIM HENMAN:  Who knows.  I've certainly adjusted to that situation.  I was pretty aware that that was going to be the case coming into the French, let alone this tournament.  It's been a good learning process for me.  I've spoken on a few occasions that I think it's a good test for me, as you say, work a few things out for myself with regards to my own game, with regards my sort of tactics for each match.  You know, it seems like it's working pretty well.  I've been very happy with the way I've played on the grass so far this year.  I certainly hope that can continue.  Having said that, I'm realistic to realize that I need to get a coach at some stage.  I'll worry about that after this tournament. 

Q.  In the past, obviously after a match you've analyzed the match, whether immediately or the next day, whenever.  What do you do in this case?  Do you talk to anybody about it or just think about it yourself?

TIM HENMAN:  I suppose I would voice my opinions probably with Keiron.  He sits there and nods (smiling).  I think it's good sometimes just to talk it through with Jeremy or someone.  But I think that's the aspect that I'm enjoying, that it's about me.  It's always been the case of when I get on the court, I'm the one that's got to work it out.  That's also the case off the court.  You know, I think I'm handling it pretty well so far.

Q.  Pat Cash was quoted over the weekend saying he approached you as coach.  Can you tell us about that?

TIM HENMAN:  He came to me just before I was going on for the final at Queen's and said he was available all summer.  If I wanted to make the step to the next level, give him a call.  I said, "Thanks very much for that offer." 

Q.  Why was it you didn't take up the offer?

TIM HENMAN:  I'm quite happy the way, you know, things are at the moment.  I think he's not the only one who has offered their services.  As I said, the way I'm approaching is that I'm working it out for myself.  So with regards to looking for a new coach, you know, I'll certainly start looking after this tournament.  I'm not going to, you know, distract myself with that right now.

Q.  Could you talk a little bit about Pete and how his threat or his aura of invincibility has changed and shifted over the years, especially recently?

TIM HENMAN:  I don't think it's changed too much here.  With his record, with the way he's played in the last eight years, he certainly is the favorite.  You know, if I were to go up against him, I've got to get through to the quarters.  I would certainly like to have that opportunity because that would mean that I've won three more matches, and I certainly would feel, you know, pretty good about my game.  If you want to win this tournament, you want to beat the best.  He's probably the best there's ever been here.

Q.  Any feeling that the window is opening a little bit as the years go by?

TIM HENMAN:  Who knows.  You have to put yourself in that situation.  But when a guy's got a record like that, I should think he's pretty keen to try and improve on it. 

Q.  When you step out on court, clearly everyone is willing you to win, regardless how you play probably. 

TIM HENMAN:  Sure. 

Q.  Does that pressure grow every year, trying to satisfy that sort of demand from the public?

TIM HENMAN:  Not exactly.  It certainly is something that I've been aware of for five or six years.  In all honesty, you've got to use that support, because the support here is certainly as good as it gets for me.  But if your mind gets distracted and you start viewing that as pressure, then it's going to detract from your performance.  I think you have to still take a selfish viewpoint from it, that when you go out on the court, I'm playing for myself, I'm trying to win for myself.  If I do, that then so many of these other things will take care of themselves.

Q.  John McEnroe was saying over the weekend that you were too downbeat on court, didn't show enough emotion.  Is that a fair comment?

TIM HENMAN:  If that's his opinion, that's his opinion.  He's perfectly entitled to it.  He knows certainly how to use the crowd.  Having said, that I think with my performances here, my performance in Davis Cup, it seems it's worked pretty well so far.  You know, I'll keep going out there, doing my best, see how it unfolds.

Q.  Don't need to throw a tantrum every now and then?

TIM HENMAN:  Not just yet (smiling).

Q.  Did you have to tell a radio commentator to be quiet today?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, he was giving just a little bit of a running commentary.  I think he was just telling everyone that I got it in the bag, it was over.  We were still midway through the third set.  I think he got the message from the fans on that side.  I had to make sure that I did finish the job off to prove him right. 

Q.  Taking you back to the first match on Court 2. 

TIM HENMAN:  First win.

Q.  Do you remember much about it?

TIM HENMAN:  I do, yeah.  I think it was a pretty horrendous first set.  There were a few service breaks.  I ended up winning a pretty scrappy tiebreak.  Obviously I won the first set 7-6.  After, that it settled me down, I played some good tennis.  I think I won in four after that.  It was a big day for me.  I think it was the Monday of '95. 

Q.  Who was it?

TIM HENMAN:  Wikaza (phonetic).  Have you heard of him (laughter)?  Expert grass court player he was, very good (smiling).  He was playing very, very well at that stage. 

Q.  Your next opponent obviously we don't know yet, either Martin or  Pozzi.  Any thoughts on that?  Fellow Brit or the old Italian. 

TIM HENMAN:  I'm not really quite sure who is going to come through it.  I suppose the only thing I can take from it is going to be a left-hander.  I'll be intrigued to watch that match, see what's going on out there.  I think it's a tough match for both of them.  I think Pozzi is a pretty awkward customer.  That will be a good test for Martin.  Martin, likewise, will have some good support.  He's played some good tennis recently.  I think he can make life difficult for Pozzi. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT