TMS - HAMBURG
May 14, 2001
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

ATP: Questions, please.   


Q.  Not a lot of fun out there today?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I am staggered.  For someone that has been practicing probably better than they have ever practiced in my preparation, I couldn't have been happier; couldn't have felt better coming into the match.  And I couldn't have played worse. 

Q.  Not looking for excuses but how difficult was it to concentrate out there because where we were there was this incessant din.

TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.  I was more worried about the -- I was trying concentrate on what I was doing and I was worried at that because I was, you know, missing and making mistakes and making him do very little.  Whatever I seemed to try  -- I don't think -- different even have breakpoint.  I had Love-30 at 3-4 game.  Then I missed a forehand in a rally, missed a couple of returns.  You just can't afford to do that.  But when I have been practicing for the last three days and playing sets, been structuring all the points so well and hitting the ball great, moving well and you come in a match and play as badly as that, it leaves you a little bit shocked.  Not a lot I can do about it now, so I am glad at least that we got into doubles this week, so I have trying to get rid of these feelings on the match court tomorrow.

Q.  Who have you been playing sets against?

TIM HENMAN:  I have been playing Calatrava   -- just I mean, all the other players really and I think you can speak to them, you know, I think they would vouge I was hitting the ball pretty well.   Again it just going to show you doesn't really matter  what happens on the practice court, it matters what happens on the match court.  It was appalling.

Q.  You are playing against a guy who is a good player but not made the top hundred; not particularly well known.  First round match where the crowd is making a lot of noise.  Is it because you find it difficult to get yourself up for the match?

TIM HENMAN:  No, that is an amateurish sort of excuse to have.  That is certainly not what, you know, I would pinpoint.  It has the ingredients for an upset, but, you know, I can only worry about my performance and that is why when you play a match like that you want to go out there and execute your shots and if you do that, you will probably win the match.  The first couple of games I felt fine.  I was serving well and then I am losing 8 games in a row or something. 

Q.  Would it be reasonably easier to say okay, it is a fluke, let's not worry too much about it?

TIM HENMAN:  If I had been  -- if I had been struggling with my game and, you know, hadn't been playing well for weeks and weeks then I think I would be concerned.  But sometimes you talk about bad days at the office.  I felt like I am talking about a horrendous day at the office but again, I think it is probably best not to dwell on it too much because I do feel when -- I think I have shown on the match court that I have been playing well enough so I am very, very disappointed.  I have to give him credit because he didn't miss.  He kept the ball in.  He served very, very consistently.  He did everything that was asked of him.  And good luck to him.  But I can't hide my disappointment.

Q.  You had a pretty outstanding start with the clay court season; particularly in Monte Carlo.  But even last week you didn't really do justice to yourself; did you?

TIM HENMAN:  No, I didn't enjoy it.  Certainly didn't enjoy my second round match too much.  So yeah, I am disappointed with the way the outcome of those  -- these two weeks, but try pick up with the French.

Q.  Good win over Costa though last week?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, so now I have got to try and pick it up for the French.  

Q.  Any influence at all on your thinking about where and when you decide to have another coach or not?

TIM HENMAN:  Well, I tried one, but failed.  I asked Bob Brett and he was -- I think he was interested in it but he is very, very busy with his academy in France, I think, and so yeah, I have tried one and that hasn't worked out.  But in all honesty I haven't really  -- you know I would have been really interested to try it with him but that is not possible.  But I felt like I want somebody to do the job full-time.  And he said he could probably manage about five weeks at the moment, but I know I just have to be patient.  I don't really feel like there are too many opportunities, so if that is the case then it doesn't worry me.

Q.  Plenty of people to talk to in Paris?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.

Q.  There aren't many coaches around, are there?

TIM HENMAN:  Good ones are probably employed.  Just have to be patient.  I think as it is now, probably won't have a coach for Wimbledon, but again perhaps things will change.

Q.  Did you even sort of consider possibly getting someone like a Pickard in for Wimbledon?

TIM HENMAN:  No.

Q.  You know the background to all that?

TIM HENMAN:  Sure.

Q.  He is asking everybody to ask you.

TIM HENMAN:  Sure.  I have answered that question. 

Q.  Did you do something special to concentrate before the game in general?

TIM HENMAN:  Just think about my game.

Q.  You need to be alone?

TIM HENMAN:  No.  Nothing special. 

Q.  Would you talk about what has happened today with anybody, do you think?

TIM HENMAN:  No, not really.  Think about it myself.  Get on the court tomorrow and try and put it right.

Q.  Is it something you talk over with the wife or don't you?

TIM HENMAN:  No. 

Q.  You wouldn't sort of feel it might do you good to get it out of your system, and talk with Fuzzy and Roger?

TIM HENMAN:  Sure, discuss it probably briefly with them, but not be on that, I am not suddenly going to start talking to all sorts of other coaches because I don't  -- I am happy to do what I am doing at the moment.  Certainly probably with Fuzzy and Roger if he is around.

Q.  Form can change so quickly the other way...

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, that is it.  I have played poorly, but I do sort of -- I just sort of feel like -- I felt so good coming into the match but didn't really show, did it?   


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT