TMS MONTE CARLO
April 18, 2001
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Tim, please. 


Q.  It's fair to say you picked up where you left off yesterday?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I certainly did.  You know, I think I had the right approach.  And as I said before, my expectations are less. And I think that's something I've got to learn from, because I know what I'm trying to do, go out there and give it my best shot, and I'm not dwelling on the consequences.  And, you know, my game plan and my whole game worked as well as it can really.


Q.  Are you as loose as the proverbial goose out there?

TIM HENMAN: That's certainly the way I'm approaching it.  But I think sometimes if you have that attitude, then your shot selection is poor, then you're just taking unnecessary risks.  I know that I've got to take risks to succeed on this surface, because I'm not just going to out-rally these guys. But, you know, the choices I'm making are good choices.  It's not the easiest surface to return on clay because your footing, you're sometimes not quite on balance.  I don't think the guys like having someone serving and volleying if they're  -- if someone's serving well, and that's certainly what I'm doing.


Q.  How much pleasure do you derive from the guy who's very solid, especially early in his games?  You had to come through break points.

TIM HENMAN: That was key, I think.


Q.  You did out-rally him from the baseline many times.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think that's a big, big plus for me.  And I think it probably  -- it's probably not particularly enjoyable.  That's not what they're expecting me to be, as patient as I am and as consistent as I am, I think that's the area of the game that they think they're going to dominate in and, you know, over a long period they probably will. But certainly when I was putting them under pressure, putting Gaudio under pressure and not making any unforced errors, it's difficult because I think I'm moving well. 


Q.  There's one period when you were upset with that call that Lars Graff overruled.  You sort of protested quite a long time, he came down.  There was just a slight concern then that you might let it upset you too much. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it's difficult.  I, you know, I make hundreds of mistakes with my shots throughout the day, and, you know, Lars makes one mistake and I'm jumping down his throat. You know, I think in the situation, I was right, and Lars said so after the match.  But it's just  -- it's the way the discussion unfolded, and I'm not allowed to influence his decision.  And I think my points, which were perfectly valid, I think he agreed with. 


Q.  You were asking him to point out where he felt the ball had landed?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, and he showed me that.  Then I told him that that mark could come from the deuce box, which you could quite clearly see because of the angle that the mark had made.  Once I told him that, then he agrees with me, but I've influenced his decision.  So, you know, he can't then change his decision. So it was, yeah, I was a little upset with it.  I think it was clearly an ace.  But I won that point, I still got to game point in the game, so I don't think it affected me overall.  But I perhaps didn't play the best points from game point up. But I played a very good game to break serve again and keep when I was in front.


Q.  Did you say something to him at the end?

TIM HENMAN: Well, he immediately said, "Sorry I got it wrong."  I said exactly that, I said, "It's difficult.  I make hundreds of mistakes, you make one and I'm on your case about it."  But that's the way it goes.


Q.  It was clear, I mean, again, second game of the second set, tough time saving the break points.  You did, though.  You could see with Gaudio that he was getting more and more dispirited?

TIM HENMAN: Definitely.  That was a huge momentum (indicating shift). I know that I know I've won the first set, I've got the opportunity to stamp my authority.  But I think then he realizes that he holds serve and then he's going to throw everything at me, and he's certainly  -- he's going to play that with a little bit more freedom.  You could see the momentum suddenly was all in his favor those first couple of games, and I was really, you know, really pleased with the way I dug my heels in and, you know, I hit some good shots, hit some lucky shots on break point.  But, you know, you take them. I got  -- I suddenly got that game, then it's 1-all.  Then you suddenly say the momentum was right with me because he was probably a little bit dispirited.  I was then able to establish the break and hold on to it. 


Q.  Well, third round.  It's a long time since we had a British player in the third round here anyway.

TIM HENMAN: No, I've certainly never won two matches in a row here, and, you know, I'm pleased with the way it is.  I look forward to the challenge tomorrow.  I think it's probably up another level, but that doesn't mean that I'm going to try and play even better.  I think I've got to just continue playing the way I have been and we'll see how that matches up against Costa.  If he can raise his level above that, then, you know, too good.


Q.  Do you think, though, although it's early days and it's two wins, in a sense you look upon yourself slightly differently?  Perhaps even other players looking at the two results you've had here might say,  "Something's happened to you, something might have changed"?

TIM HENMAN: I don't think, in all honesty  -- I'm, you know, I'm pleased with the way I've been working, and I feel it has given me an opportunity just to work a few things out for myself.  But, you know, it is two wins.  I'm delighted with them.  And I think I've beaten two very good clay court players.  But that's not to suddenly say I'm coming to the conclusion I don't need a coach.


Q.  No, I don't actually mean it like that.  Perhaps to say with these wins and the manner and the style with which you've accomplished them, people might look at the results and say,  "He's working it out"?

TIM HENMAN: Perhaps.  Perhaps. 


Q.  "He's done something different"?

TIM HENMAN: That's up to their perception.  I certainly know the way I've approached the clay court season.  And given the scenarios that unfolded in the last couple of weeks, I'm just going out there to work hard, play hard and see what happens. 


Q.  You've beaten Albert four of the five times you've played.  He beat you on carpet, on the fast surface in Paris.

TIM HENMAN: Very slow surface in Paris.


Q.  Yeah.  You've not played him on clay?

TIM HENMAN: No.  It certainly plays into his hands, doesn't it? I think it's fair to say that he's the favorite.  But, you know, he's going to play a similar type of game to Gaudio, and it's one that I dealt with today.  And, again, that's why I'm not going to do anything different.  I'll try and play exactly the way I did today.  And if I play at that level, as I said, and he can come up with, you know, better shots and is too good for me, then so be it.  There's nothing I can do about that, I don't think.  I'm not going to try any harder.  I'm not suddenly going to think,  "God, what an opportunity this is." It's the right way to approach it. 


Q.  Yeah, well, I mean it's worked beautifully in the two matches you've played so far. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, yeah. I mean, you know, if Alix is only criticizing my appearance and not my performance, I think that's a really good sign for me. 


Q.  It's only your haircut, Tim.  Only your haircut. 

TIM HENMAN: I'd say that is a big compliment. 


Q.  Nice game of doubles as well. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, no.  It's another one that -- I think Magnus lost, didn't he?


Q.  He did. 

TIM HENMAN: I think we'll have to try and give him something to enjoy today. 


Q.  Obviously, you know, we understand that you are thinking about a new coach, but it's going to be maybe a long-term thing before you actually appoint anybody. 

TIM HENMAN: Again, you know, I really don't know.  I certainly know that I'm not thinking about it right now.  I've got two weeks.  I'm not playing for two weeks after this.  That will certainly be a time when I'll consider all options. Again, you know, who knows?  Who knows who's available, who knows who I want to work with.  You know, I can't predict what will happen, but I certainly know that I need a coach.  I don't think there's any perception from my point of view that I could just do this on my own. 


Q.  The people say, "He'll go for a big name."  I mean, whatever that means. 

TIM HENMAN: Buster Mottram was heard out there by one of the experts.  (Laughter.)


Q.  Intriguing one.

TIM HENMAN: Huh?


Q.  Intriguing one. 

TIM HENMAN: That's someone's opinion. 


Q.  Wasn't my opinion.

TIM HENMAN: John sent it in himself, did he?


Q.  Yeah, surprised me as much as it surprised you, I think. 

Q.  I think JP might be looking for a new job with his replacement. 

TIM HENMAN: No, I don't know.  Who knows?


Q.  Of all the ingredients a coach can supply  - motivator, companion, tactition, technical coach - which of those ingredients are likely to be the ones you base your choices on?

TIM HENMAN: Again, I think they're all important, aren't they? But it's not something that, you know, I've given a great deal of thought to.  Again, the reason for my decision and our decision to, you know, have a break was so that it was time for a change.  And so we'll have to wait and see from my point of view what I'm actually looking for.  I don't, I think in all honesty, I don't know.


Q.  Do you think that this tournament is different than others? I mean, with the surroundings, the beautiful surroundings, and the fact that it's played in Monte-Carlo?

TIM HENMAN: It is.  It's certainly a, you know, pretty special location to play in, and I don't think you get, on days like this, I don't think you get many better venues.  You know, I think to be  -- to look at it on the critical side of things, it's perhaps not big enough, and I think, you know, the level of tournaments and this type of tournament with the number of players, and I think in an ideal scenario you would like more space.  But I don't think that's really  -- I don't think that's really possible. 


Q.  The players' evening are very famous here.  Do you normally go there?

TIM HENMAN: I've been there, yeah.  I've been there before.  I think they had a players' evening last night, but I didn't participate.


Q.  But they usually do acting.  Will you go there? Have you been there?

TIM HENMAN: Oh, you mean, our players' evening or the gala evening? I think there's two.  Yeah, I've been to that.


Q.  Are you going there Thursday?

TIM HENMAN: Maybe.  It depends, you know.  I'll see how I get on, see what my schedule is.


Q.  Have you ever been acting?

TIM HENMAN: No, no, no.  I'm quite happy to watch, but ...


Q.  Why not?

TIM HENMAN: I'm not really an actor. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT