TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 23, 2001
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 

Q.  Was that just a bad day at the office?
 
TIM HENMAN: No, I think he certainly played well, and, you know, deserved to win the match.  You know, I had a problem last week because I think I lost the match.  But certainly the way he played, his consistency, the way he passed when I was coming to the net, he deserved to win.  He was a better player on the day.  
 

Q.  Did it seem to be one of those strange games when both of you found it easier to hit the most difficult, most challenging shots and then make some sort of disappointing errors when the ball could be put away?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, sometimes I think the first set it was, you know, I couldn't have had any complaints the way I started off.  You know, where I say he won the match, you know, the game that he breaks me back to go 3-all I think.  That was where he was much more aggressive, came in, hit a couple of, you know, good topspin, good return winner.  But then I think sometimes he then was more defensive on his own serve and that gave me an opportunity to get forward.  So it was a little bit up and down to begin with.  
 

Q.  Mixing it up well with a  --?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, he's got a good feel at the net.  He used all aspects of his game well.  I wouldn't sit here and profess that I played my best match, but those are the ones you've got to try and get through somehow.  And against Schuettler I got through it, but Fabrice got stronger and stronger.  
 

Q.  Tiebreak a bit disappointing?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I played a bad tiebreak, no question.   You know, just missed two returns out of nowhere.  That's what he's looking for.  He kept his consistency high and I made mistakes. 
 

Q.  You're giving him the credit.  Are you a bit sick at yourself?
 
TIM HENMAN: I wouldn't say I'm pleased right now, but that's something you have to deal with.  You've got to take this situation sort of on the chin if you like.  I made it clear with the strategy that I was taking in my game in the sort of larger picture, and I wanted to win smaller events to help myself in the big events.  I've accomplished the first bit, but so far it hasn't happened for me in the bigger tournaments, in the Slams and the Masters Series.  I have three so far this year, played okay in Australia.  But it hasn't worked out yet. Again, you got two approaches.  Either you stick to what you believe or you try and do something different.  I know which one I choose.  
 

Q.  Is it a case of you just want to get on a roll where you don't want to stop and start winning match after match after match, you sort of stutter?
 
TIM HENMAN: No, you could say that.  Having said that, I probably  -- the first four or five tournaments of the year I've had the best start with the sort of number of matches I've won.  So I can't complain about not having won.  But as you say  -- and also in Indian Wells I created a bit of an opportunity playing, you know, a good one to get through then playing very well against Pioline.  I'd be the first to admit that's when I had the biggest problem, is when I lose matches.  And against Lapentti, there's no question he played better.  He did things that he hadn't done before.  But I still would say that, you know, I lost that match, and that's what you can't afford to do.  
 

Q.  Was it simply consistency that was the difference between you this time on the hardcourt and the previous times you've played?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, and he certainly played  -- I found before, you know, I've been able to attack his forehand a lot.  I think it's pretty well known that he's got a good backhand.  A number of times he hit short cross-court on the forehand pass.  That was an area that I probably didn't enjoy so much. Having said that, you know, the conditions, I think, are not quite as quick as somewhere like Cincinnati or when I've played him indoors.  I feel like I can rush him, he doesn't have time to set up for those passing shots.  Today, sometimes a solid approach shot, he's got time to pick his spot, I'd hit a lob or sometimes go down the line, but the majority of the time go short cross-court. 
 

Q.  Can you put into words how difficult he is to play?
 
TIM HENMAN: He is, no question.  He's got so many shots.  You never quite know what to expect.  He's very solid from the baseline.  He moves well.  You know, today he served pretty slowly, but, you know, his first serve percentage was obviously very high, and that takes out an aspect of my game, I suppose.  Then you got to start looking at chipping and charging on his first serve.  When he gets to the net, he's got good feel so there are many options for him. Having said that, coming into a match if you've been in four-out-of-five, I've obviously got the game plan to beat him.  I was a tiebreak away from doing that.   
 

Q.  Pete Sampras said last week that very few spin the ball as menacingly as he does.
 
TIM HENMAN: He's got the heavy topspin when he needs it and a really good slice on both wings.  That's unusual.  But I can't say that sort of surprised me because I've seen it before and dealt with it. But, you know, that's when you need to  -- you try and need to take those things out of the equation.  If you can dominate and get on top, then it doesn't give him the chance to, you know, to use all that, all those shots.  
 

Q.  Is that perhaps one of the things that concerns you a little bit?  You won the first set today. 
 
TIM HENMAN: Uh-huh. 
 

Q.  Somehow you weren't quite able to impose yourself in the second. 
 
TIM HENMAN: I thought I'd sit and analyze the match.  When was it, it was 2-all or 3-all, 30-love down, his serve, then suddenly I get to break point.  And, you know, he's been hitting the second serve to my backhand all the time.  And so I think,  "Okay, I'll take an educated guess that he'll go there again." I'm going to say, "I'm going to hit the forehand hard straight down the middle and see what happens." I hit it hard straight into the net. And, again, I'm not saying that's right, but I've chose the shot and I executed it poorly.  You know, if I then try and stand behind the baseline and play a drop shot, then that's done.  But you have to sometimes -- you got to sort of lay your cards on the table and say,  "This is what I'm going to do," and see what happens. Against Lapentti, I didn't do that.  Every time I got one, I went for it and I missed.  But in situations like that, you've got to make a decision.  Sometimes you make the right one; sometimes you don't.  I suddenly get a bad call.  He hits a couple of good shots.  I lose my serve.  Then I get back to break point after saving a few set points and on that occasion I'm thinking,  "I'm going to stay in this rally." Stay in the rally, come to the net and hit a good passing shot. So sure, you'd like to take every opportunity, every break point you get, but that's not reality.  
 

Q.  How do you cope in an event like this, you go out early, you've got a lot of time to mull over the various things. 
 
TIM HENMAN: Sure. 
 

Q.  How do you cope with that? What's your mindset for the next few days?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, no, probably  -- I'll probably take a few days away from the game.  There isn't really a great deal for me to do in the short term because I know that I've got a busy schedule coming up. But no question these are  -- these are the difficult moments in that they're not the enjoyable ones because I'll be the first to admit that I'll dwell on it, you know, for quite a few days.  But you, you know, you got to learn from that. And that's why I say I can sit here now and say how frustrated I am with my game and, you know, the way I've played in the last two weeks.  And if you look at the bigger picture, the 52 weeks, I'm four spots away from my highest ranking ever. I probably will focus more on the bad side of the coin because I, you know, I want to do better than I've done in the last couple of weeks.  
 

Q.  Should be a slightly faster court (inaudible.)
 
TIM HENMAN: It isn't, yeah.  Someone will be to blame. Sure, again, I'm fortunate.  I think that comes at a good time for me.  It's always a great atmosphere.  Hopefully ticket sales are going well.  I shall look forward to that.  But, you know, it doesn't disguise the way I feel right now.  
 

Q.  And your schedule for the clay tennis as well?
 
TIM HENMAN: Portugal away the week after Davis Cup, Estoril. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TIM HENMAN:Estoril and Monte Carlo.  Two weeks off, Rome, Hamburg.  Week off, French.  So plenty of clay court tennis.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT