AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2001
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question for Tim, please.  
 
 
Q.  Tim, the  --?
 
TIM HENMAN: Spit it out. (Laughter). 
 
Q.  I'll go straight into it.  Overall you must be very happy, I mean two effortless sets, a little waver and then back into it?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that's right.  Yeah, basically the first two sets were as good as I've played in this tournament certainly.  I played a very great first set, exactly the way you want to open up and similar to the way I opened up against him in the Davis Cup.  And, you know, all of a sudden, 5-4, 40-love, things are looking pretty comfortable and I seem to remember I made quite a few first serves at that stage.   But, you know, all of a sudden it's anybody's set.  And that was a real test mentally to be able to accept that.  There was nothing I could do about it once I lost the game. But I was, I was cursing myself to a certain extent.  But, again, I was really pleased the way I responded in the tiebreak.  I think the 3-2 point was a big boost because up until then I was, you know, I was perhaps still dwelling on the missed opportunities.  But that was a huge point and I think he's a sort of really class guy.  We played a great point at such a critical stage.  I'm around his side of the net and he says,  "Great play." I think that says a lot about him.  
 
Q.  It was almost as if at 5-4, 40-love, that first point, it dropped in.  It distracted you.  It certainly lifted him?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that's right.  I felt like I hit the ideal serve.  I went into the body and he's playing down, downwind then.  He really gets on to the return. And it's, you know, a split second reaction.  I decided to leave it and it lands pretty much on the baseline.  And I hit a good second serve the next point, he hits a great return.  I don't remember so much.  I remember missing a volley at deuce.  I didn't feel like I'd done too much wrong.  That was a bit of a shock because I had been playing so well up until then.  But I think having got that second set, that was sort of such an adrenaline rush, I continued to rush my game for the first couple of games of the third set and it was not a good start.  But I then told myself that was in a good position.  I was up two sets and having been pretty close to being a set all, I felt like there was no need to panic by any means.  Then started to string it together and played really, really well.  
 
Q.  In the past, would you have been so hard on yourself that you could have spiralled a bit out of control at that point?
 
TIM HENMAN: I think experience definitely helps.  And I'm not one to try and repeat those things, but it's happened to me once before.  I kind of remembered that, which was a good thing.  I was up 6-5, 40-love, against Kucera in Rotterdam which is a lightning fast court.  He had a couple passing shots, I was in a tiebreaker, I came through to win that tiebreaker.  They were matchpoints.  So I kind of felt like not that I wanted it to happen -- to happen again, but I dealt with it once and thought I could deal with it again.  I did.  That was sort of pretty satisfying to get two sets and then once I was down love-3, I really picked my game up again and continued with the way I had been playing.  I wasn't rushing as much.  I was patient from the baseline but still getting that balance right with the aggressive play and, you know, tiebreaks are always critical and no more critical than the third-set breaker.  I made a lot of good shots in that tiebreak.  
 
Q.  Was it more difficult to get your focus back in after the delay while he was injured? And also the usual thing of you're never quite sure how someone's going to react?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it was break point, wasn't it.  He falls over.  I just sort of see that in the corner of my eye.  I hit a pretty good forehand.  I wasn't quite sure what he'd done.  But then I served a double-fault, which was really smart when the guy's unsure if he's going to be able to move.  So that was frustrating.  But, again, it perhaps gave me a chance just to regroup mentally and calm myself down a little bit and I think the next game was crucial.  Because it was pretty evident, it was evident for us, I think it was probably evident for you that one end was a lot easier than the other.  It feels like you're playing downhill from one end and obviously the sun is also in the eyes of the server at the other end.  So it makes it difficult.  But I broke him and then held and when it's only one break, you kind of feel like you're back in the set.  
 
Q.  How much do you think he was inconvenienced?
 
TIM HENMAN: I'm not sure.  You probably have to ask him that.  Having said that, I felt like I was pretty generous with those first three games and I definitely picked my level up.  But, yeah, it coincides with the, you know, his fall.  But, you know, in the  -- at this level and in sport you've got to take advantage of those things.  
 
Q.  First set, 22 minutes.  Great tennis.  Did you feel like this is what training is all about? Is it a groove you get into?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah.  Some days, some starts with opponents, it comes a little bit easier.  I wanted that to happen against Arazi but perhaps wasn't moving quite as well and perhaps my shot selection wasn't as good.  But, you know, I played simple tennis, but I played it very well.  I was more aggressive on my serve.  I think that's  -- that was something that was evident when I beat Lapentti in Davis Cup, I was really going for my first serve a lot.  And I was going for it more, but then sometimes I think my percentages get better.  And, you know, I do take a lot of satisfaction out of today's win and confidence for my next round.  
 
Q.  It's an all-London clash. 
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah.  
 
Q.  Against Wayne?
 
TIM HENMAN: It is, that's right.  I think he's going to defect. 
 
Q.  Main dangers?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I mean the guy's got  -- one of the best serves in the game.  I've watched it on his side of the net playing doubles with him in Adelaide last year, and I remember finding it pretty amusing because, you know, he's the one telling me where he's going to go.  I'm sort of looking at the returner saying,  "I know where this is going and you haven't got a chance to get there," and, you know, they're all getting excited and here comes the serve.  And you do watch it with   -- you watch it in awe I think.   But I've got to make sure I make him play as many balls as I can because I like the fact that I know the way he's going to play.  You know, he's got a good Plan A and that is around his serve, and so I've got to be able to deal with that. 
 
Q.  How pleased were you with your returns today?
 
TIM HENMAN: I think I returned okay.  I was pretty selective and the one aspect was that I was positive on them.  I didn't get into the habit of chipping too much, especially when Nic started to serve and volley.  That's when you've got to be aggressive.  I know that I'm going to have plenty of targets against Wayne and you got to make sure that in your mind you have one shot and then you execute it and see what happens.  So I look forward to it.  
 
Q.  In those first two sets, one of the great qualities seemed to be today that you had plenty of options and you were mixing them in so well.  That was keeping him guessing?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that's right.  When I talk about my strengths, I think it is, I do have lots of options because I feel confident with my baseline game and my movement, that if I need to, I can rally and stay with these so-called baseliners.  But I make sure that I keep playing to my strength, which is always going to be attacking.  And it was something yesterday that I felt like I wasn't moving particularly well to my forehand and I felt against Arazi I was rushing the shot a little bit.  That was something that we just tried to work on a little bit yesterday and I felt was a little bit quicker was over there.  And, again, you have a bit more time and it gives you a few more options. 
 
Q.  You were coughing a bit today.  How is the cold?
 
TIM HENMAN: I think it's getting better.  You know, I'm surprised it has taken so long and I still feel a little bit bunged up.  But day by day it's getting better.  I don't feel like it's affecting me.  I don't feel it's particularly attractive on the court sometimes when I get bunged up, but you got to do  --. 
 
Q.  Percentage-wise, were you 95 percent?
 
TIM HENMAN: No, I feel 100 percent.  I don't sound 100 percent, but I don't feel like it's restricting me in any way.  I'm full of energy and hopefully I'll sound better as the tournament progresses. 
 
Q.  On the fashion front, a lot was said and written about the dresses the ladies wore yesterday.  Gray? I mean  --?
 
TIM HENMAN: What's that? Gray.  
 
Q.  It's gray, isn't it?
 
TIM HENMAN: Is it? I wouldn't say it's gray.  I don't know the technical color for it. 
 
Q.  Silvery blue. 
 
TIM HENMAN: Gray.  Gray.  (Laughter.) Gone color blind on us? 
 
I'll investigate it and find out the technical color.  Do you dislike it in a certain way? 
 
Q.  I'm a bit of a pink man myself.  No, I mean, it looks, you know  --
 
TIM HENMAN:  ..... 
 
Q.  Where's this heading?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, speak your mind.  
 
Q.  You have a boring kit. 
 
TIM HENMAN: Is that what he's trying to say? I think it's all right.  
 
Q.  It's better than the sludge color you had.
 
TIM HENMAN: I must admit on the clay last year or two years ago I did have a pretty dodgy sort of muddy green color.  But I like it.  And I think it's sort of more important that the material's pretty good.  You don't feel like you've got some thick wool on you.  I feel like it's very comfortable to play in.  But it's not  -- probably doesn't draw so much attention as some of the other outfits.  
 
Q.  A lot of players are starting to have a lot of input in the design of their outfits   - obviously comfort is paramount   - maybe getting away from the aesthetics.  Is that something that you give feedback on?
 
TIM HENMAN: No, I couldn't quite classify myself as a fashion guru.  
 
Q.  What about the ease of wear with which you wear your clothes? Is that something that you give feedback on?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, the comfort? Yeah, I think that's something that you feel more strongly about because in conditions like this, you do.  I think the material is important and to a certain extent you're not cosmetically  you're not quite so worried.  But, no, I'm happy with what I'm wearing. 
 
Q.  I suppose what I'm asking, have you been giving some feedback on  --?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I mean they're very good at coming up with their new inventions and they seem to work.  So I'm happy if they're happy.  
 
Q.  Are you trying to say you're really upset they're spending all their time on Kournikova?
 
TIM HENMAN: No, that's quite all right by me.  Quite all right with me. 
 
Q.  When you don't have the home support, is it important to try to quiet them early?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that's a good tactic, not to give them too much to cheer about, get excited about.  But I think I'm experienced enough, it will be a great atmosphere.  Probably won't have the majority of the support but, you know, I've enjoyed playing in front of a home crowd and I've enjoyed being the enemy, if you like.  So I look forward to it. 
 
Q.  Do you see much of him or practice with him?
 
TIM HENMAN: I see him around.  I mean, you know, we've actually known each other for a long time.  We played some doubles when we were  -- when I was just sort of starting out.  So we've known each other for a long time. 
 
Q.  Does he practice with any of the British groups or not?
 
TIM HENMAN: I don't think  -- I think he practices or has done with Brent Larkham a little bit.  But I don't practice with him in London.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT