TMS - STUTTGART
November 2, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Tim. 

Q. That must be a very aggravating loss, but you must feel that you played pretty well
through much of that match?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, difficult. It had its moments of being a very good match, a lot of
good quality tennis. I think the lesson I learned today is trying to find that balance of
when I need to play all the tennis. At times when I try and play my best and go for my
shots, I feel against him it's not the most effective way. You have to be very selective
and just be patient, because a lot of the times in the rally, he's not the one that hurts
you a great deal. He's very, very consistent, makes very few unforced errors. But you've
got to find that balance of creating opportunities, when to come forward, picking the
right one.

Q. Is he one of the most difficult to approach the net against on the tour?

TIM HENMAN: I think, yeah, definitely. His strengths are his passing shots, his
tenacity. That's why he's had such a good year. 

Q. Second breakpoint, second game of the final set, was that -- did something happen
there?

TIM HENMAN: Good opportunity.

Q. Looked a good shot to put away. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, one of the Golden Rules in tennis is to watch the ball. I can't say I
saw a great deal of either of the volleys. If you can't see it, it's a pretty difficult
game. 

Q. Do you think that one point was pretty crucial, could have turned the balance?

TIM HENMAN: It could have done. The 7th game could have been pretty crucial. You know,
that went my way. The second game didn't go my way. You know, it does. At this level, it
boils down to, you know, who takes their opportunities. Obviously, in the first set, you
know, he's quick out of the block, played pretty ordinary first game. From 3-1 till 6-3, I
couldn't have any complaints with the standard of my tennis. It was really good. It's a
question of just trying to sustain that. 

Q. Having got out of that 7th game in the last set, did you think you might be able to
turn it?

TIM HENMAN: I felt a lot more confident, yeah. I don't know how many deuces we had or
how many breakpoints I saved. Yeah, there were quite a few. After coming through a game
like that, yeah, I thought the momentum would swing in my favor. You know, he responded
with a really quick service game. Suddenly, you know, 4-All, I was back under pressure
again. You know, 40-15, I've got a forehand, I hit it deep in the corner. I think my
chances are looking pretty good in that game, as well. He hits a great recovery shot that
I couldn't deal with. All of a sudden, I was down another breakpoint.

Q. First serve percentage wasn't as high as you probably would like. Is that, again,
because he returned quickly and well?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, combination of the two. I think there's definitely extra pressure,
just the amount of balls he makes. Your margin for error in these conditions is so much
less because the ball is flying through the air quickly. You've got to keep the ball
pretty low over the net. In the heavier conditions that we've played in the last few
weeks, obviously you have a lot more margin for error.

Q. What of Lisbon now?

TIM HENMAN: I said I was the underdog before this match. Obviously, having lost, it
doesn't really increase my chances. While it's still mathematically possible, I'll go out
there and, you know, keep giving it everything. 

Q. What is the thinking in the dressing room about Enqvist? We were led to believe he
had a cortisone injection on Monday. 

TIM HENMAN: Cortisone in his shoulder? 

Q. Yes. He came in here yesterday and said everything was fine. 

TIM HENMAN: Well, I mean, yeah, I thought it was his ankle that was bad. 

Q. He has a bone in his ankle, as well. 

TIM HENMAN: I don't know. I'm sure he's not going to give too much away. No, he's had a
few injuries in the past. You know, I think the -- he didn't play particularly well
against Ferreira. His record is not particularly good. I didn't see a great deal of the
match, but I presume from what Wayne said, you know, he was fit on the court. We'll just
have to see how everyone holds up. 

Q. You're not playing Lyon?

TIM HENMAN: No.

Q. No inclination to do so now because things are so tight?

TIM HENMAN: No, no. I think I will prepare for Paris. I think I'd have to make the
final in Lyon to actually improve on my fifth tournament. I think I'm better off, you
know, resting up and preparing, play as well as I can in Paris. As I said, what will be
will be. I really can't have any complaints with my game right now. I've played, you know,
some great tennis. I'm not suddenly going to become despondent, because that's not the way
I'm going to keep moving forward. Go to Paris and see what happens. 

Q. How good a player is he, Hewitt? What capabilities and possibilities does he have?

TIM HENMAN: He is. I mean, his record speaks for itself. You know, I think he's got
sort of a good set of people around him, which is important, that are going to help him
keep improving in the right areas. If he can improve his serve, I think the serve's
probably one area that he can improve. It's tough. When he's so good, so young, it's tough
to see where the improvement can come from. Whereas, you look at someone like Federer, he
seems like he's got a lot of aspects to his game. But Hewitt is a phenomenal competitor.
I'm sure he's going to be around for a lot longer. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT