US OPEN
September 2, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim. 


Q.  There could hardly have been a more disappointing end to a match that you played so well for so long. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  Sums up my Grand Slams really this year.  I played a lot of good tennis, but it's frustrating to lose in all four of them in five sets. 

Q.  But the quality of your tennis, you must have thought, "I've hit a real run here"? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I mean, I can't really have too many complaints because I think I did, I played some really, really good tennis; a continuation of the way I played all summer.  I think if I look at it in the big picture, you know, I've got to start winning the smaller tournaments, and then it's going to make it probably a fraction easier when I come into the bigger tournaments, i.e., the Slams.  I've talked about how I have put myself in the situation in slightly smaller tournaments, Masters Series are still pretty big.  Didn't go my way at the beginning of the year.  They've started to go my way now.  I think it's similar situations with the Slams.  If I start winning the smaller tournaments, I'll put myself in the situation in the bigger Grand Slams. 

Q.  The three doubles, was that a little lapse in concentration the end of the fourth?

TIM HENMAN:  I wouldn't say perhaps concentration.  I definitely lost my rhythm momentarily.  I struggled in that game and early on in the fifth.  I just lost my timing, if anything.  It was a real question of just trying to hang on early on.  You know, no question, that was an expensive mistake when Richard played the similar game at 5-4 in the first set.  He responded well, and I wasn't able to take advantage.  But, you know, hit a great backhand on set point to get things level.

Q.  The fact that he was sort of trying to get in on your second serves at every opportunity, did that in a sense contribute to the number of double-faults?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I think when you've got a guy of his physique and his ability at the net, you know anything short, you know he's going to be in on it.  It definitely puts pressure on you.  You know, I spoke a couple of weeks ago about it.  My second serve needs to improve.  I'll be the first to admit that.  Just as other areas of my game I needed to be worked on, I've worked on.  Other aspects of my game I think have made some improvements.  Right now I'll go away and work on that. 

Q.  How dangerous is he now for the rest of the tournament? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, you know, I like his chances.  If he gets through the next one, he's got a good record against Pete.  It will be interesting. 

Q.  Is it any real consolation to you to know that you played this well, in light of such a disappointing result?

TIM HENMAN:  I'll make sure I go and continue this because I know with the way my game is right now, I've definitely made some big improvements, and I know that I'm, you know, playing as well as I've ever played.  But, you know as well as I do, at this level, it is about the winning and losing.  You know, you'd prefer to lose 2-2-2.  Now I'm doing drug testing, and I cannot produce a sample. 

Q.  The match happened in the middle of the night back home.  People are going to wake up and find that you've lost, you double-faulted on match point down.  They're going to go  --?

TIM HENMAN:  That's irrelevant. 

Q.  They're going to ask questions of your mental toughness, that's what I mean.  What would your response be?

TIM HENMAN:  I think it's great, you should all start asking questions and start doubting me because that's when I respond to it.  What's new?  If that's what people want to think, that's great.  I'll be the first to prove them wrong.  It irrelevant what all these other people think.  I know what I need to do.  I know where I'm going.  I'll achieve it. 

Q.  What particularly will you take out of this match?  I don't think you've passed  --?

TIM HENMAN:  I don't think I've returned serve as well as I did tonight.  I suppose midway through the second set, there was a slight doubt creeping in my mind.  I never returned this well and I still haven't broken his serve.  It is a question of persevering.  A couple of my best returns on break points didn't give me the reward.  All of a sudden the worst return I hit, he misses the volley.  That's the way it goes sometimes.  You know, I'll be critical on myself.  The second serve is what I need to work on. 

Q.  If it's any consolation, at the end of the second set, you got 24 out of 25 first serves in. 

TIM HENMAN:  The first serve, I don't think I could be  -- I don't think I can ask for much more.  From how erratic I used to serve, I could serve really well, but it was so inconsistent.  My first serve has made huge improvements.  Now I look to make those same improvements on the second serve.  If I do that  -- I lost my serve three times tonight.  I donated one of those at the end of the fourth.  So I lost my serve twice in five sets.  Again, if I make those improvements, it will be even harder to break me.

Q.  When you analyze what happened, do you go away and momentarily feel angry for what happened or do you turn it into something positive to make sure it doesn't happen again?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's frustration, anger, whatever you want to say.  You've got to learn from it.  It is, it's very frustrating.  You're quite right in saying that I've got to make sure that I learn from this.  I think, you know, you guys watched the match, we'd be in a agreeance, the second serve is what I need to work on.

Q.  What is it about the second serve?  Do you know the areas you need to improve on?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think I do.  I think in these conditions when the balls get really lively, it's almost like the contact point, it happens too quickly.  It's almost like the ball needs to stay on the strings a little bit longer.  But definitely I'll go away and look at a few things, discuss it, go from there. 

Q.  It is important, too, not to kind of head into a five-set phobia, as it were.  If you're going to be a Grand Slam champion, you're going to have to win five-set matches at some stage. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yes, very much so.  I felt so good out there.  I felt ready to play best of seven sets, whatever it was going to take.  The fitness is not a problem.  I don't think it will ever be a problem.  As I said, in the other tournaments, I lost some close three-set matches.  But I put myself in those situations again, like Kuerten.  They've started to go my way.  Indianapolis, as well.  Likewise, I think it hasn't gone my way.  But if I improve at a slightly lower level, put myself in this situation, I'll win, no doubt. 

Q.  Is the rationalization then easier, before there were other areas, three or four things you wanted to look at, but now it's come down to basically focusing on one particular area, you know there's one thing wrong?

TIM HENMAN:  I think, you know, 12 months ago, there wasn't a sort of clear, general direction of what I was trying to do.  It was one minute I'd be trying to do this, and the next minute it was something else.  I was working on my fitness.  But now I feel like I'm headed in the right way.  It started off with my fitness, and that helps different shots.  I've given myself the base there.  All of a sudden, my forehand is a different shot, but I haven't done anything to my forehand.  Likewise, I've changed my serve a little bit.  My first serve's as good as it's ever been.  Now I need to improve my second serve.  Again, it's pieces to the jigsaw, isn't it? 

Q.  How much different is the preparation for a night match, starting at 9:00 at night, as opposed to coming here at 11:00?

TIM HENMAN:  I normally like to hit, not early, but I hit about 12:00 today.  I hit for 45 minutes, get a proper sort of workout, then go back to the hotel, get away from things, have some food.  Then you sort of prepare as you would do for a normal match, but it happens at 7:00 in the evening.  It does, it makes it a long day.  But having said that, the results are not what I wanted.  But playing in that type of atmosphere, playing in that type of stadium, that's what it's all about.

Q.  You spoke about how it helped to play the Davis Cup after the disappointment at Wimbledon, in many respects gave you a springboard for this American hard court summer.  Presumably now you look at the Olympics to do the same for the rest of the year?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.  I'm really excited about it.  It is a busy schedule.  It's another opportunity, and it's another chance for me to continue the work that I'm doing.  I'm sure for the next sort of 48 hours or whatever, this will still be in my mind.  But it's important not to dwell on it.  I look forward to my next opportunity there. 

Q.  Are you going to go home fairly soon now or hang about a bit?

TIM HENMAN:  I'm going to hang about and watch, see all the matches (laughter).  No, no, I'll be going home tomorrow morning if I can get on the flight.  The sooner, the better. 

Q.  Do you think it helps that you have a relatively equible temperament, digest these kind of results, not get too hysterical about them one way or the other?

TIM HENMAN:  I think I've always said, my personality and my temperament is pretty level.  Don't get me wrong, you know, it still hurts just as badly to lose.  I'm not suddenly going to start thinking the world's against me or, "What have I got to do?"  I'm going to learn from it.  Likewise, I played some really good tennis.  When I've had some good wins, I suddenly then don't think I'm the best thing around.  It's important just to keep a level plane.  I try and stay constant.

Q.  I know a lot of questions have been about the serve.  In your own mind, preparing for a match, how close are you to feeling that your serve is going to be secure under pressure, with the work that you're doing to improve your serve, especially in a match like against Richard where you know it's going to be pretty much his serve, your serve is going to be a real key?

TIM HENMAN:  I've never had any doubts in any aspect of my game.  I feel like my serve has obviously come on leaps and bounds.  When you serve as consistently with the first serve as I have been, you hold with the serve, and that gives you all-around confidence.  Again, I'm not the type of guy to suddenly, because I need to work on my second serve, I'm not suddenly going to be afraid to keep going for my second serve, keep coming in behind.  That's not the way I am and it's not the way I should play.  If I suddenly start getting afraid or timid, I'm going away from my strengths, going away from my game plan.  I'll be the first to admit that it needs work. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT