US OPEN
August 31, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Tim. 

Q. Fairly generous out there in terms of his erratic play. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. From my point of view, I'm not going to try and make out that I
played a great match. It was a question of getting the job done. You know, probably the
best game of the match he played was the first. After that, I think I settled down pretty
quickly, got back on level terms, got a lead, never really let him into the match. 

Q. What did you think after that first game? Was it a question of not panicking?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. He hit a couple of good shots. You know, I wouldn't say I did too
much wrong in that game. But he definitely started off very well. A five-set match, still
a long way to go. You're not going to start panicking at that stage. Played a good game on
his serve to get back on level terms. Felt very comfortable from then on.

Q. How do you concentrate with all the noise?

TIM HENMAN: You've got to take advantage of that and accept that on his forehand he can
hit some winners, but when he gets erratic, that's when you've got to make sure you keep
the ball in play to take advantage of those unforced errors. 

Q. Is that the most distracting court in world tennis?

TIM HENMAN: One of them. I mean, they're all pretty distracting here. That's the first
time I've seen people throwing walking sticks onto the court. That's what fell down.

Q. A walking stick?

TIM HENMAN: Yes.

Q. Right from the top?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. It was a huge metal thing. It landed just on the lady's shoulder. She
was pretty lucky. If that hit her on the head, it would have been a different story. 

Q. There was the guy that had the phone conversation. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. Important business call probably.

Q. There was the other guy, when he hit one of those scorching forehand returns, no one
could have got back, the guy called out, "Come on, start working." 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. You never know what's going to happen next, whether it's people
moving or people throwing things or whatever. I feel like my concentration was okay,
definitely areas that I could improve on. But if you only drop nine games, I don't think
you can complain too much.

Q. Two straight-set victories. That's a job well done thus far. 

TIM HENMAN: Very much so. It's like that golf saying, isn't it, that you can't win a
tournament in the first couple of rounds, but you can certainly lose it. Likewise, you
can't win the tournament in these first few matches, but you've got to get through them.
To get through them as comfortably as I have is good, bboth mentally and physically. You
know, I think pretty likely it's going to get tougher from now on.

Q. To go back to distractions, do you think in the past you would have gotten angrier
than you did today and lost some concentration?

TIM HENMAN: Not really. I think I'm not going to suddenly start getting frustrated
after losing my serve in the first game. I would say the only other slight hiccup is when
I was up a double break in the third. Again, you're not going to get frustrated when
you're playing somebody that looked pretty exhausted and you're up two sets to Love and a
break. You know, at the important stages in the match, I was always on top.

Q. Do you think it's going to get considerably tougher from now on, bearing in mind the
next on the list?

TIM HENMAN: Inevitably. As you go further in a Grand Slam, the opponents are going to
get tougher. Certainly in my section, I'd be very surprised if Krajicek doesn't come
through. We've had some pretty interesting matches on the occasions we've played. You
know, if I play Richard, then I look forward to it. It's a pretty good match-up. Put it
down to who plays best on the day.

Q. Are you playing about as well as you ever have on hard courts?

TIM HENMAN: I think overall for a stretch of time. I think I've definitely been very
satisfied with the way I've been playing. It's a question of just trying to continue to
make improvements and try and continue that form. But, no, I'm very pleased with where I'm
at the moment. 

Q. What don't you do on hard courts that you would like to do a little bit better?

TIM HENMAN: I suppose it's little things. I think sometimes I can be guilty of not
taking advantage of some of the opportunities that I have. You know, that's difficult. If
you create breakpoint opportunities, then you like to take them. Sometimes, you know, I've
found the people I've come up against have played good points to save those. You know,
that's a very specific area that I'd like to try and improve on. 

Q. People are saying that the courts this year are fast. Would you confirm that? If so,
what effect does it have for you?

TIM HENMAN: It's sort of difficult for me to talk too much about last year with the way
that I played (smiling). From what some of the other guys are saying, I think the three
major show courts are slower than last year because I think people have said that they
were quicker. They were sort of shinier last year. This year I think they're a pretty good
pace. Whatever you're going to do, you're going to have to do it well. I think a lot of it
is dictated by the weather. It hasn't really been particularly hot yet. You know, the
balls aren't flying around as much as they could do. Have to wait and see what the
forecast is. 

Q. How do they compare with Cincinnati and Indianapolis?

TIM HENMAN: I think they've been pretty consistent. Talk to different players, they'll
say different things. It's amazing some people's perception of the surface, some people
will say, "Cincinnati was slow and Toronto was much quicker." Other people say
exactly the opposite. It's down to the individual really. 

Q. Do you feel like you're playing on a pretty much similar surface?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. My game has been pretty consistent. I think I've felt like I've been
able to play the game that I want on these types of courts. They definitely suit me well. 

Q. If we look back at your year, first six months, playing okay, but not winning the
matches that really mattered, three Grand Slams, tight matches. 

TIM HENMAN: Sure.

Q. Suddenly now, the last couple of weeks, you've beaten Sampras, Kuerten, Kafelnikov.
Why this sudden change?

TIM HENMAN: Exactly. I mean, I haven't done anything differently. That's where I've
tried to speak about being patient. I haven't done anything differently, but I think I've
continued to do the right things and I've improved. It was definitely frustrating for me
early on in the year when I put myself in those situations, gave myself those
opportunities, and I wasn't able to take them. I can't sort of second guess myself, blame
myself. I did everything I could, but it didn't go my way. I've made some improvements.
I've been playing better. I'm a little bit more confident. Again, you get into some tight
situations against some good players, and, you know, things start going your way. Again,
it's a question of not having any let-ups and just trying to continually work at what I'm
trying to achieve.

Q. So does that give you a lot of heart when you look at your possible route through
this tournament? It's littered with Grand Slam champions, starting possibly with Richard. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. But having said that, I've beaten them all before. No question, it's
a big task to perhaps beat those type of players consecutively. Again, it's another
challenge. You know, I relish that. 

Q. On another matter, Billie Jean King was in here earlier today talking about the
Olympics, basically saying people should be paid to play the Olympics. Your thoughts? 

TIM HENMAN: That's a difficult one, isn't it? I'm not so sure I, you know, would agree
with that. She's obviously perfectly entitled to her opinion. You know, I think the
Olympics has been the sort of pinnacle of sport for so long, I don't think people should
be making their decision whether or not to play the Olympics for financial matters. I'm
going there to represent my country and hopefully win a medal. To participate in the
Olympics should be enough. 

Q. You are in a professional sport. 

TIM HENMAN: Sure.

Q. You do make a vast amount of money from winning tennis tournaments. How much of a
buzz does it give you to walk around behind the Union Jack?

TIM HENMAN: I would definitely say, you know, that the thrill of winning definitely is
what it's all about. I think the opening ceremony at Atlanta was probably the biggest and
best thing that I've ever been a part of in sport. You know, I can't wait to be a part of
that again because it is a unique situation. I think it's an enormous honor for any sports
person to be in that situation. 

Q. You talked about how patience was a part of the key to your success this summer.
Where would eagerness fall into that category?

TIM HENMAN: I've always been eager, but it doesn't matter at times how hard you try. If
you haven't got the game to back it up, then you're not going to be successful. Twelve
months ago, you know, I was trying my hardest, but there were areas of my game that needed
improving. I was playing without confidence. That's a difficult time. It's a question of
giving yourself a base to work from. And that's exactly what I did over the first six
months of the year. 

Q. Do you have any idea yet when your next match is, whether it's tomorrow or Saturday?

TIM HENMAN: I don't think it can be tomorrow. I don't know. 

Q. I assumed it would be Saturday. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I don't know. 

Q. They're out of kilter. 

TIM HENMAN: A slightly strange schedule here. I would be very surprised if it was
tomorrow. Hopefully on Saturday. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT