US OPEN
August 28, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Tim. 

Q. That was pretty workmanlike. Must be pretty happy with it. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I can't have too many complaints. It's obviously with the
circumstances in the last match, you know, I employed similar tactics, but just from a
movement point of view and speed of the court, obviously favors me and suits me better.
You know, I played a really solid match. Good one to get out of the way.

Q. And the footwork helped you very much. Volleying very well. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I volleyed really well. That's exactly it. On clay you're slipping
and sliding all over the place. Here you have firm footing underneath. I think, as in the
last few weeks, I've been pretty tough to pass. I keep that intensity and keep that
pressure on all the time. I think it's made life difficult for him. It's a tactic I've got
to continue with.

Q. Do you get the feeling he was very much aware of what you've been doing recently,
couldn't really hurt you that much?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think with my game plan, that was evident. I've seen him play a
little bit this summer when people have given him time. That's when he's at his most
dangerous. I think he served for the match against Kafelnikov in Toronto, had some good
wins in Cincinnati. In those matches where he's won, or come close to winning, he hasn't
been rushed at all. Didn't want to get into too many long rallies. Having said that, I
think I am comfortable in all aspects. 

Q. Hit him hard in the first set. Could have done so in the second and third. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I didn't play perhaps the best of games to lose my serve in the first
set, but he hit a couple of good passing shots. I felt like my game was definitely where I
wanted it to be, so there wasn't any sense of panic. As you say, first two sets I got on
top early and, you know, never let up after that slight setback. In the third, serving
first is a nice situation to be in. Played a really good game to finish it off. 

Q. (Question regarding court.)

TIM HENMAN: I sort of had a brief thought as I walked on today. I viewed it as a good
opportunity to sort of put that memory firmly behind me because it was probably one of my
least impressive performances 12 months ago. 

Q. But not just one that, Ferreira, Philippoussis?

TIM HENMAN: Had some tough matches on that one (laughter). I suppose I didn't think
that deeply about it. That's fairly fortunate. I've had some better matches on there.
Funny enough, it's the only court I practiced on this week - before the tournament,
rather. We were on there for two or three days. Were meant to be on another court;
changed; were on that. Preparation couldn't have been any better.

Q. When is the last time you entered a Grand Slam tournament feeling as good about
yourself as you obviously do coming into this one?

TIM HENMAN: Probably I felt pretty good about my game last year at Wimbledon. I played
well at Queen's, and definitely had a lot of confidence. But I think my game is at a
different level now. I feel there's more consistency with my serving, you know, a little
bit better understanding of the way I can maintain the levels at a high standard. I think
that's been evident in the last few weeks and pretty evident today. 

Q. Is the greater consistency a measure of better concentration or better confidence or
is it technical?

TIM HENMAN: I think perhaps, in this instance, it might be a little bit technical
because with the changes I made, specifically on my serve, I feel like I'm able just to
sort of keep serving continuously; whereas, before, there was always an element of doubt
that I start missing; my percentages drop. I feel like I've got a better understanding of
how to keep that level high. That's good. 

Q. At the end of Cincinnati, also I read the conference call you did with everyone, you
talked about working on your second serve, control the lighter balls. What have you been
trying to do in that regard?

TIM HENMAN: I think sometimes when -- sort of the contact point, when I actually make
contact with the ball, it all happens a bit too quickly. When it gets hot, the balls get
lively, I think it gets difficult. Everybody finds it difficult. I find that I make sure I
don't rush the actual hit on it, and make sure I take my time, when I get a bit quick on
it, try to get to the net before I hit the serve, that's when I can have a few problems.
Today it was a little bit easier with is being humid, not so hot, the balls weren't flying
quite as much. All aspects of my serve were very good. 

Q. Have you ever played two Fernandos in a row? 

TIM HENMAN: No, I probably haven't. None that springs to mind. I had a chat to Tom
Gullikson, and he had watched Gonzales play in two of his matches. I've never really seen
him play a great deal, but he's obviously pretty useful. He's won a tournament this year,
won four matches this week. He's not somebody to take lightly. I think he has a similar
style of game, big forehand, likes to have a lot of time. Have to employ similar tactics.

Q. With a bit of time to reflect on it, how important do you think in the overall
scheme of things is that victory over Sampras at Cincinnati?

TIM HENMAN: I think hopefully if I get into a similar situation, in a big match
situation against him, it's definitely going to give me a lot of confidence.

Q. In general terms, not necessarily against him. 

TIM HENMAN: I think when I look at the rest of the field, he was the only person I'd
never beaten. You know, I'd beaten Kuerten, Agassi, Rios when he was at the top of his
game, beaten Moya, beaten Corretja. Sampras was the only person I hadn't beaten.
Definitely to have beaten him just emphasizes the fact that on my day, I can beat anyone.
But, you know, again, you look at the other side of the coin. There are so many good
players. Every day is a new day. You can't take it for granted. 

Q. Minimizing the bad days?

TIM HENMAN: I feel like the problems I've had in the past is where my levels have
fluctuated too much. You know, you can't always have things as smoothly as I did today.
When things aren't going perhaps as well as you would like them, that's when you have to
keep a consistent level, you know, get through those difficult matches. I think I'm
learning how to do that. 

Q. What do you think about the next opponent, Fernando Gonzales?

TIM HENMAN: I wouldn't say that I know a great deal about him, but he's obviously had
some good wins. He looked like he beat Mamitt today pretty easily. He won a tournament.
Second round of a Grand Slam, it's never going to be an easy match. I feel happy with my
game and I look forward to that match. 

Q. Every major has its own distinct flavor in terms of the atmosphere, aura. 

TIM HENMAN: Smell (smiling). 

Q. Comment a bit about playing in New York. 

TIM HENMAN: They're all very different. Perhaps this is the most different. Coming
after Wimbledon, you've got to expect disturbances, you've got to expect interruptions,
you've got to expect noise. If you come into the tournament not expecting that then I
think you're being pretty naive. You have to make sure that you concentrate on what you're
doing and not let those things distract you.

Q. In your own game here in New York?

TIM HENMAN: I really enjoyed it. I feel like right now, you know, my best performance
is the fourth round. I want to improve on that. 

Q. What do you have to do better to make the final of a Slam?

TIM HENMAN: I've got to win six matches. I've won five before on a couple of occasions.
Yeah, that's what you've got to do at the highest level, you've got to string those
victories back-to-back. 

Q. Is that a case of mental focus?

TIM HENMAN: It's a case of everything. It's a case of technically playing well,
physically being in good shape, and mentally being able to concentrate over a two-week
period. That's what I'm trying to do. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT