TMS - CINCINNATI
August 13, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Tim. 
 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, it was another really, really close match, and, you know, my standard of play, as it has been the whole week, was really high.  But, you know, on the day, Thomas was better.  And I think Guga summed it up well yesterday.  He had a really close match against Todd; it went his way.  He had a really close match against me, and it didn't go his way. I think that's been rather my point of view, it went my way against Guga, but it didn't go my way today.  
 

Q.  The start of the second set wasn't what you wanted?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Wasn't what I wanted.  What could I do? Comes out and takes the first eight points with a couple unbelievable returns.  Then, you know, backs it up with a Love service game.  Too good.  He deserves all the credit he gets.  He played a great match and was too good for me on the day.  
 

Q.  After that eight straight points, did it kind of take the wind out of you a little bit?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Tough to come back from that, but there was no way I was going to give up.  I was hanging in, giving everything I had, right to the end.  I had a couple of break points in a few of his service games.  Was it 2-3, I think, at 15-40, I came in on an approach shot basically on the baseline, straight up the middle, giving him no angles and he hit a great pass.  That's why you have to give him credit.  
 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, it is frustrating, don't get me wrong.  I would love to have been able to break and get  back into that set.  But, you know, as I said, Thomas was  -- Thomas was the one that came up with some great shots at the right time.  
 

Q.  Do you look at this game and how well he played out here and think that he should have a Grand Slam title by now?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Should, could, you know.  Probably will.  I think he's, you know, he's obviously a guy that's been around for a long, long time and he's got a great game.  He's been in a Slam final before, so he's been very, very close.  He's struggled with injuries, and I think if he stays healthy for a long period of time, then, you know.  I'd like to think that, you know, I'm in a similar situation.  If I can keep improving, then there's no reason why I can't go further.  
 

Q.  Does it get harder to win a tournament the longer that you don't?
 
TIM HENMAN:   I think it's frustrating, no question.  But I've talked this week about being patient.  I had to be patient with my results for six months of this year.  And, you know, I talked about working incredibly hard at the end of last year and maintaining that, and didn't really have the results to show it.  But, you know, I beat Pete for the first time this week.  I beat the guy who's No. 1 in the Race for the first time.  I made the Masters Series final for the first time.  It would have been nice to have won it, but I think I can take a lot away and a lot of confidence moving through the summer. 
 

Q.  In the first set, you had kind of like a crash-and-burn philosophy where you were coming in a lot any chance you could.  Was that your plan throughout the match? Did you kind of let back  --?
 
TIM HENMAN:   I think that was a continuation of the way I played all week.  You know, it's been working very well for me, so I think I would have been stupid to try and play differently.  And, you know, it's a tactic that is very successful, and I'm going to continue to work on that to keep improving it. And, you know, that's the way I play to my strengths.  If I just start trying to rally and beat these guys from the baseline, I'm not going to do that.  
 

Q.  When you got in that serve-and-volley mode, is that like you forcing him to beat you?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, exactly.  I can look back on this match and sort of unequivocally say that Thomas won the match; I didn't lose it.  I, you know, I lost my serve twice in five matches I think, four times in the tournament.  I've never served as well as I have this week.  So that's obviously a key to my success.  And today I think I served equally as well.  But it's a different style of returner.  Against Guga, he stands a lot further back.  That gives me time to get in a little bit closer.  But he stands tight on the baseline and takes it very, very early.  And, you know, that was one of his strengths.  
 

Q.  Your double-fault at 5-5 in the first set tiebreaker was a killer.  Did anything happen on that that you can  --?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Not really.  I think to be perfectly honest I've struggled at times with my second serve.  In these conditions, when the balls are very hot  -- the conditions are very hot, the balls get lively.  I found it a little bit difficult to control.  And as I say, you know, I've lost my serve twice in five matches.  If I then, you know, this is an area that I want to go and work on.  If I improve that, then it's going to be even tougher to break.  
 

Q.  Do you feel sometimes you might press too much?
 
TIM HENMAN:   I don't think so.  You know, as I said, if you lose your serve twice in five matches, you don't know how many service games that is, but you're obviously doing something right.  So I must be playing a few big points well.  Likewise, when I'm serving well, I'm getting a high percentage of first serves in, and a lot of them aren't coming back.  And that was evident in the tiebreak against Guga in the third yesterday.  You know, I think I had four first serves, and I'm backing it up well with my volley.  
 

Q.  You said yesterday about how, you know, you didn't have a lot of British press here. 
 
TIM HENMAN:   Hmm.  
 

Q.  Or a lot of pressure, I guess, from home.  You played kind of, you know, without nerves all week.  Did you feel a little more nervous today?
 
TIM HENMAN:   No, not at all.  No.  I think you should be nervous for every match.  If you walk on the court and you're not nervous, it probably means you don't care and that's definitely not the case. But, you know, whether I'm playing at home in front of 14,000 people on center court cheering for me, or whether I'm playing on an outside court, you know, away from home where there isn't that sort of intensity, I'm still out there playing for myself.  I'm not playing for anybody else.  And that is the right way to approach it.  If I start worrying about what everyone else is thinking or saying, then I'm going to be distracted and that's the last thing I want to happen.  
 

Q.  Was the disappointment of the 5-5 double-fault was carried into your next service game, which is the only time you lost at Love all day?
 
TIM HENMAN:   No, no.  I think that was evident the way I bounced back yesterday.  And I had a really long tiebreak.  I had three or four set points and I didn't take it.  I was able to put it out of my mind, and, you know, then went on to break Guga for the first and only time during the match.  So it's not something I dwell on.  
 

Q.  So you'll dwell this week on the good points and not the opportunity that  --?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, definitely.  I mean there are so many, so many good points.  And I talk about being patient and I feel that if I keep playing the way I am and keep improving, I think you'll all agree that if I keep giving myself these opportunities, there's no question that I'll win tournaments, and they'll be big ones.  
 

Q.  So you consider yourself a  -- maybe not a favorite  -- but a person that would be in the midst to win the Open?
 
TIM HENMAN:   I don't think I'm favorite.  I've never gone beyond the fourth round there and that's something I want to improve on.  But, you know, you got Pete and Andre and perhaps Rafter if he's healthy.  I think those three stand out.  I think, probably put Guga in there, but I have to agree   --. 
 

Q.  Now you've beaten two of those guys you mentioned.
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, I've beaten Agassi before as well.  I think it's fair to say I've beaten everyone now and I know that I can beat anyone on my day.  That gives me confidence.  I wouldn't say I'm the favorite going into the Open, but one of the outsiders.  
 

Q.  Did you ever get home to your family?
 
TIM HENMAN:   No.  Didn't try.  
 

Q.  Do you know where they are?
 
TIM HENMAN:   I think they're away at the moment.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible)?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, in the five matches today.  Not including that first one. (Laughter.) 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT