TMS - CINCINNATI
August 10, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Tim. 
 
Q. How does it feel to have beaten Pete Sampras?
 
 TIM HENMAN: It's very satisfying. It's been a long time coming. I felt like I've had
some pretty close matches against him in the times that we've played. But I gave myself
another opportunity, and this time I was able to take it.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)? You were returning very well. 
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I was. I think it's something that perhaps I did a little bit
differently this time. His first serve, you know, he's hitting the corners, there's not a
lot you can do. I was getting looks at his second serve, I was standing in closer, trying
to take the ball earlier, giving him a little less time to get to the net. As you said, I
did return really well and kept the ball low. But I think it was the overall sort of
consistency of the number of returns that I made.  
 
Q. Not to take anything away from you, you played a great match. But he wasn't on top
of his game.
 
 TIM HENMAN: No, you need all the help you can get. And I think this year at Wimbledon
was a pretty good example of, you know, how fit Pete was - I don't know. He obviously
wasn't anywhere near 100 percent fit, and I think players put a little bit of extra
pressure on themselves. I think, you know, perhaps this is my chance to beat him. Whereas,
you know, I was prepared to take everything I could get if he wasn't playing quite as well
as he obviously can. You know, that was all good for me.  
 
Q. When did you sense that maybe he wasn't at his best?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Well, I think if you make life difficult for him, then obviously he's not
able to hit shots that he wants to and doesn't have so many easy volleys behind his serve.
I lost my serve in the first game. I admittedly didn't play the best game, but hit a
couple of good shots early on. I felt like I was on to his serve in that first game. You
know, he came up with some more good volleys. But I felt like if I could keep giving
myself some good opportunities, there's no reason I couldn't play him. 
 
Q. Was he sluggish?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I don't know. It wasn't really the center of my thoughts. I was far more
concerned with what I was trying to do. If I start worrying about his game and shots that
he's missing or making, then I'm distracted. That's the last thing that you want.  
 
Q. You said yesterday in practice that you held your own. ...(Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it's difficult. I mean Pete's not -- I think Pete's pretty laid back
at the best of times, and sometimes his practice sets are not too much to go by. So I
think I won my fair share of practice. Having said that, you know, the record coming into
this match was pretty emphatic.  
 
Q. You had a chance to think about winning that match. ...(Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: It's a good problem to have obviously, because I knew the match was right
there for the taking. Having said that, you know, I wasn't going to start thinking too far
ahead or thinking about previous matches. My only thought at 5-4 was, you know, let's get
plenty of first serves. When I missed the first four, I wasn't too pleased. But, you know,
I got through it.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah. Unquestionably. And I said to you guys earlier that I've had a pretty
solid year. I've played some good tennis but, you know, nothing spectacular has happened.
And hopefully this can be a, you know, it can kick-start things for the second half of the
year. Having said that, you know, it's so important that, you know, I come back strong
tomorrow because it's great - it's great that I've beaten Pete, but no good coming back
and wasting the opportunity tomorrow.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I think it is. Whether I like it or not, that unfortunately is the
nature of the British media and it's something that you have to get used to. It's not
really worth dwelling on because, you know, there are so many opinions out there. I think
I've learned to -- learned a pretty good lesson, that I just listen to those that are
close to me and those opinions that I value. And, you know, you don't really pay too much
attention to the rest.  
 
Q. When somebody has a record like that, does it start to play with your head before
you play the match?
 
 TIM HENMAN: You got to try and avoid that. I said earlier I don't think it's anything
to be ashamed of, to have lost a few times to Pete, because that's the scenario for most
people. But no, I felt like I've had some opportunities against him. You know, both the
semifinals of Wimbledon have been pretty close. I've been, you know, I've been in the
final of Queen's, and we finished that off. So I knew that I was getting closer. And,
again, you know, if I hadn't have won tonight, the only way I was going to beat him is by
giving myself another opportunity. So you just got to keep putting yourself in that
situation.  
 
Q. Were there specific things you can take from those first six matches that you go out
today and you recall some specific things that you can do better?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think there were definitely things that I've learned and tactics
that I had to try and implement tonight. But, you know, sometimes you're not -- it's not
possible to do that because he's capable of playing at such a level that I don't think
anyone can compete with. He didn't play his best tonight, but I certainly took advantage
of the chances I had.  
 
Q. Is that coming into the second serve one of those kind of things?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think so, yeah. I think if you give Pete service returns in his sort of
hitting area, that's when he's going to be very dangerous. Or if you're not aggressive, if
you let him come at you, you're going to be in trouble. So I take the middle way most of
the time and try and get the ball either close to his body or, you know, up around his --
over his shoulders.  
 
Q. He thought you were playing really well tonight. He was saying that sometimes you
just come upon a player who's just really hot. He thought you'd cool off if he were able
to take it to a certain set. Did you just feel that you were in a zone tonight?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I felt like I was playing some really good tennis. As I said, it wasn't the
best start, but at 1-3 I felt like I was hitting the ball pretty well and I started to
take those opportunities and got better and better. And it is, from his point of view,
it's probably a question of just trying to hang in there. From my point of view, I created
chances, I've taken them, and now let's not give him a second chance. Because if you do
that, then, you know, I'd probably be down in the third set right now. So it's good to
finish it off in straight sets.  
 
Q. 1-3 was a dramatic turn. Why did it turn so dramatically?
 
 TIM HENMAN: It's a combination of, you know, me raising my level - no question - and
perhaps Pete missing one or two shots. I think it was 2-3 when Pete served. He missed the,
you know, relatively comfortable backhand volley only by an inch or two. The next point he
served a double-fault. All of a sudden it's Love-30, I hit a really good forehand pass to
give myself breakpoint and then hit another really good pass to get back on level terms.
So I'd like to think that I played, you know, a lot of good tennis to get me through.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I definitely played -- I didn't do as well as I have done at Wimbledon. But
the quality of the three matches that I won at that stage, it was definitely better than
other years. I think you look at my Wimbledon record and it's pretty good by most people's
standards. But I've had my fair share of tight matches. For me, it's almost more
satisfying if I can just win in a very consistent fashion. That's been something that's
happened this year. I've been winning pretty consistently. But I wanted now to take it to
the next level, and hopefully that can be this week.  
 
Q. Did you have anything specific that you would change in your game?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think the end of last year was a pretty critical time in my career
and it was pretty well-documented back home. I definitely made some changes, a few little
changes on my serve and on my fitness. And I have to remain patient because it's not going
to change overnight. And that, at times, has been frustrating because you want things to
happen quicker. But I think slowly but surely I'm moving in the right direction.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it's something you definitely have to get used to. But, likewise,
with a number of things there's not really much I can do about it. Whether I like it or
not, it's always going to be there, and whenever I've played at home and the spotlight's
been on, if you like, I've, nine times out of ten, I've thrived in the atmosphere. I
always enjoy the support. It's my favorite place to play, is at home. So people have to
remember that I want it. They want it a lot; but I want it far more. So I'm sure that if I
keep doing the things I'm doing, one day I'll, you know, achieve what I want to achieve.  
 
Q. How do you like your chances of winning this tournament now?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I have a long way to go. You know, I'm pleased that I got through this -- I
got through this match. But the matches are going to -- I can't say they're going to get
harder, but they're not going to be any easier. Santoro is obviously playing well, beating
Safin, who won last week in Toronto. I have to come back and be prepared for another tough
match.  
 
Q. Traditionally this has been a tournament where Americans have done really well. This
is the lowest number of Americans ever. Any thoughts on why the Europeans are doing so
well here?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I don't know. I think there's so many great players throughout the world.
The guys you've had at the top of the game, they've dominated for so long. I'm sure Pete
and Andre can still be around for a few more years. But, you know, you need -- I think you
need the next generation of American players to move through. And you look at the guys
coming through from South America, there are so many, so many good players out there. It's
inevitable from time to time you're going to have sort of turns in countries' results.  
 
Q. Does this court, is it just slow enough that some of the clay court players can --?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think it's pretty fast. I think it's a pretty fast surface. Whatever
you're going to do, you're going to have to do it well. If you're going to serve and
volley, you have to be making a lot of first serves and you've got to be able to back it
up with your volleying. Likewise, if you're going to stay on the baseline, you have to be
aggressive. You can't really keep the ball in because people are going to be able to hit
you off the court.  
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, definitely. It will be a different type of match. I think the match,
you know, it's probably a little bit more dictated by myself because I'll be the one
that's being aggressive. And Fabrice is great at mixing things up, and he's got a lot of
variation to his game. I lost the last time we played in Hamburg -- in Rome, that's right.
But I've beaten him a couple times before that. So it's going to be an interesting one.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT