TMS - CINCINNATI
August 8, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR: Questions for Tim?

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I feel like, as I said to you guys sort of last week, I feel like my
game is in pretty good shape. And it was disappointing to lose first round last week, but
I didn't really feel like I was doing too much wrong; everybody else was playing really
well and deserved to beat me. But I've had the chance to keep practicing and I'm trying to
maintain that form and, you know, at times it was beginning to show through. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: I think I would have liked to have made life a little bit easier for myself
in the second set. I thought the first set was, you know, some pretty good tennis.
Obviously, I lost my serve at 4-2, but I think -- I mean he hit a couple of, you know,
very good passing shots. I would have liked to have got an early break in the second set,
and that would have made life more straightforward. But, you know, it went to the third
set and I still felt like I was able to move up a gear and assert my authority early on. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. It's not perhaps his most natural game, to keep coming forward. But
he was pretty confident. When he was at the net, he didn't miss too many volleys. But with
his sort of athleticism, it's when he's on the run and you're giving him targets to aim at
he can be dangerous and, you know, there were a couple of games where he had me in
trouble, hit some incredible passing shots. So you've got to make sure that balls bounce
twice.

Q. (Inaudible)? 

TIM HENMAN: I don't know. I think I was sort of trying to make him do most of the
running. You know, whenever I was moving forward, I felt like that was when I had the
chance to dominate the match. And as I've said, when I was serving consistently, I didn't
feel like I was going to be in too much trouble. But any time I missed a couple of serves,
then he's going to be dangerous because he's got good returns. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: Not too bad. It was pretty windy yesterday when I was practicing, so it
wasn't too bad. But you hope it sort of stays as calm as possible. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: Not really. I think we play another -- in other tournaments, I'm just
trying to think. Miami can be really windy. So this isn't -- this is -- as wind goes, it's
not too bad. It's obviously pretty humid out there. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: I think my game matches up pretty well to him. But having said that, he's a
guy who's obviously in form. He's won a lot of matches this year. So you definitely can't
take anything for granted. But if I can continue to serve consistently and be aggressive
-- because I'm not going to beat him from the baseline. I've got to keep moving forward
and try and keep the points as short as possible. So if I can do that, I think I have
quite a good chance.

Q. Guga is No. 1 as of this week. Is he a great clay court player, or is he a great
all-around player who's, so far at 23, has only managed to break through in that Grand
Slam?

TIM HENMAN: Well, you have to look at his -- you have to look at his results all
around. And it's inevitable, his clay court results are going to stand out because I think
he's the best clay courter in the world. But, you know, how did he play in Miami this
year? I think that was a pretty clear statement of the way that he can play on hard
courts. He made the final in Toronto and Montreal a few years ago. So, you know, perhaps
when we least expected it, he made the quarters of Wimbledon last year. So I don't think
too many people would complain with his results on any surface. 

Q. Is it comfortable for someone whose game is first off suited for clay to look --?

TIM HENMAN: No, it's much, much better to be suited for clay and then adjust to the
other ones.

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: I don't think it's quite so lopsided as that. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I think it's much harder, in my opinion, to go from, you know, a very
fast court oriented player to learn how to play on clay. You know, to tell you the truth,
that's something that I've had to do, but it's definitely helped my game, too, to be able
to compete and win matches on clay. Because I know that if I can do it on clay, it makes
life a lot easier for me on the other surfaces. But I think he's someone that's been
brought up on clay, but his game is versatile enough that he can adapt to the other
surfaces. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: I think they've been pretty consistent. The heat probably has quite a lot
to do with it. If it gets hot, then I think it does play quicker. But I think they've been
pretty consistent from Toronto to this week. I think that's what the players like, whether
it's consistency in the surface or consistency in the balls, I think we're pretty close to
it right now. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: I think it's pretty good. I think perhaps they've been a little
disappointed with the way the colors come up on television because it - more so in Toronto
- it looked very purple in the, you know, when you're out there. But on TV, it still came
across being a little bit blue. But I'm sure they'll be able to make those adjustments. I
think, you know, if you can unify the Masters Series events and make them stand out, I
think that can only be a good thing. 

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think that would take a little bit more of an adjusting to, it's
probably a bigger change. And I think from the way the players would like to sort of see
that it didn't affect it too much. We play on green clay, we play on red clay. Purple
clay, I'm not quite sure, but we've got to give it a chance. 

Q. Would the grass be next?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, maybe. (Laughter.)

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: I think probably the nature of the surfaces these days. If anything,
whether it's right or wrong, the game has been slowed down. And I think if you're going to
serve and volley now, also the standard of the returning, you're going to have to do it
very, very well. And I think more people have been brought up on the baseline and, you
know, trying to dominate with the returner's serve. Less people are, you know, serving and
volleying.

Q. Was that something you were always just very comfortable with naturally, or did you
develop that over time?

TIM HENMAN: Obviously you've got to develop that as you grow older and try and improve.
That was always -- that was always the way I played from whenever I started out. I always
liked to sort of be the one attacking and trying to finish points at the net. And, you
know, that's where I'm going to have my best results. If I start trying to beat these
people from the baseline, it's not going to happen for me. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT