WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Tim Henman.  
 
 
Q.  That was one big, awesome, strong fellow at the other end today. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I think it's safe to say he wore me down with his serve.  As frustrated as I am, you've got to give him a lot of credit.  Got to take my hat off and say, "Too good today."  
 
Q.  Is he the winner, do you think?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's a long way to go.  He's playing some good tennis.  He's got a game that can cause a lot of people trouble.  You know, we'll have to wait and see. 
 
Q.  Could anyone have lived with him in the first set, the way he finished it off in the fifth?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.  I mean, you know, we'll never know that.  I certainly haven't seen him play that well, to begin with.  Then I thought the way I was able to stick in and turn the second and third set around, you know, was about as good as I could sort of fight.  But when he's serving that well, you just feel like one opportunity goes his way and you're up against it.  
 
Q.  Will you be staying to watch the rest of the tournament?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No. 
 
Q.  What will you be doing?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.  
 
Q.  What went through your mind in that last set?  Did you think it was balanced?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Sure.  We're in the fifth set.  I think we're both playing good tennis.  Just trying to keep my nose in front.  It was the crucial seventh game.  That's where the match was won for Mark.  
 
Q.  Is it fair to say that many times you played much worse than that and won?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Oh, no question.  No question.  
 
Q.  In the seventh game, you go up for what appeared to be a pretty makable overhead, a woman calls out.  Did that bother you?
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's no excuse.  I should have made that shot.  Unfortunately I missed it.  That's sport.  You know, I'm afraid you've got to try and execute your shots.  I executed a lot of good ones today.  I didn't execute that one quite as well as I would have like. 
 
Q.  Were you distracted?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No.  
 
Q.  Is there any advantage from the Australian players' point of view that they don't have the pressure of expectation from the home crowd and from the local press?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's different circumstances for them to play in.  I can only talk about myself.  If I start talking about them, then I'm just speculating.  You'd have to ask them that question.  But as far as I'm concerned, there's always been incredible support for me, and today was no different.  I've said it time and time again:  I thrive in those conditions.  Unfortunately, today I wasn't able to pull it out.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised as how he continued playing so well, despite the five-hour match on Saturday?  Didn't seem to lose his stamina. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, I was hoping for a few  -- I was hoping maybe for the pace to drop a little bit on his serve, if he was going to get tired.  But, you know, he's got a great serve and he's able to rely on that.  The way he was able to, you know, keep finding the mark - pretty funny, wasn't it?  "Keep finding the mark."  That's too good. (Delayed laughter from audience)  Did you get it?  
 
Q.  A bit slow.  After winning the tiebreak to give you the lead, did you feel that the game was there for you to take?
 
TIM HENMAN:  That was when the match was swinging in my favour, no question.  That tiebreak was hugely important.  I thought I played some great tennis.  Even in the circumstances when I had chances, I couldn't take them.  He hit a couple of good shots.  I was really pleased to hang on.  My opportunity was to try and get an early break.  I really, really was a aware of that.  That's where I wanted to try and take some opportunities.  But, you know, any glimmer of chances were extinguished with big serves.  
 
Q.  Alexander Popp was asked what he felt like being the British hope in the quarterfinals.  What do you feel about that?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Good luck to him.  He's playing well, isn't he?  
 
Q.  Have you seen him?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I wished him luck this morning.  He wished me luck.  
 
Q.  Could you explain why you won't stay?  Is it too painful for you to stay and watch the tournament?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, it's no different from any other tournament.  It's a great tournament.  I can't say I've got a great deal of interest now.  I'm not involved in it.  Good luck to whoever is going to advance.  
 
Q.  Are you left with the feeling that that is a match you should have won?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't know if "should" is the right word.  I can't really second guess myself.  I went out there and gave it everything I've got.  As I said to Barry, I've played a lot worse and won.  Today I thought I played some really good tennis.  Mark was the better player on the day.  
 
Q.  What were you feeling after that first set?  He looked awesome.
 
TIM HENMAN:  He did.  I think it was plain for everybody to see how good a tennis he was playing.  Again, you know, I wasn't going to start sort of panicking.  That was one set I could have lost 7-6 in a long tiebreak and I still would have been a set down.  I regrouped.  You know, I hung in there early on.  I kept my nose in front.  I broke serve.  You know, he broke me straight back.  But I wasn't going to get frustrated.  I felt like I was finding my rhythm and played some great games in that second set to get back on level terms.  I don't think I could fault myself in too many areas. 
 
Q.  Is the demise of the racquet a true indication of how you felt?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Sure.  Very frustrated, extremely frustrated. 
 
Q.  Any surprise from you about Mark's performance given the marathon game he had?
 
TIM HENMAN:  You've got to give him credit for his guts and his determination because I'm sure he must have been feeling a little bit sore.  You know, he kept going out there.  He played well.  
 
Q.  Where do you see his limits in this tournament?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't think he's got any limits.  I think with the tennis he's playing, he's got a good chance.  Anyone's who left in the tournament at this stage has got a chance - some perhaps more than others.  On his day, I think it's fair to say he's capable of beating anyone.  
 
Q.  And today was certainly his day, was it?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it obviously was.  He played some good tennis.  As much as it frustrates me, you know, disappoints me to lose, you've got to give him credit.  
 
Q.  Have you ever had a situation where someone serving for the match has served three aces, second service, ace at 128?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't think so, no. 
 
Q.  Extraordinary. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's the way he plays.  He takes risks.  There were times when I was trying to say, you know, "There you go, there's a target, go for it."  His quality of serving was extremely high.  Nine times out of ten, you know, he was finding the aces.  
 
Q.  How hard is it to keep your level of enthusiasm up when someone is serving that well?
 
TIM HENMAN:  You've got to be mentally strong.  I said before the match that I've got to accept, as fast as I try and move, as hard as I try, when someone is serving at 135 plus, you're going to get aced.  I think to get frustrated would really have been a waste of my energy.  I kept trying to get as many balls back.  At times that did pay off.  
 
Q.  What can you do to break through here?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Keep improving.  I think that's the only way.  I feel like I've got a good game for grass.  It didn't work out this year, but I'll be back for many more years.  I'll do everything in my powers to make it happen one day.  
 
Q.  Any particular areas you feel you'd like to focus on?
 
TIM HENMAN:  130 mile-an-hour second serves.  That would make life easy.  But, no, there's lots of areas I can improve on.  I've got no doubt that I'll go away and do it. 
 
Q.  The disappointment must get harder with each year, though. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's disappointing whenever you lose.  Just as disappointed if I lose in any tournament.  A lot of preparation has gone into this.  I'm very disappointed, don't get me wrong.  I shall keep coming back and keep working hard.  I think that's the best way to approach it.  
 
Q.  Did you speak with Mark at all, any conversation afterwards?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No.  
 
Q.  When he came into the locker room, he said you sat there smiling or laughing.  Did you talk anything?
 
TIM HENMAN:  What was that?  
 
Q.  After the match against Schalken, you were sitting in the locker room when he came in.  Did you talk at all?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, we spoke then.  
 
Q.  What did you talk about?  What was it like?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yesterday or whatever it was, Saturday?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I congratulated him, said, "Great effort."  I told him I'd won my match in his fifth set.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT