WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions for Tim. 

Q. Pleased with that performance?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, very pleased. I felt like I had a good, clear game plan in my mind,
and I definitely went out there and executed it. I don't think I can fault too many areas
of my game today.

Q. You kept focused even when his game was trying to mess you around a little bit,
great intent in your eyes. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that's right. I think, to tell you the truth, early on I found it a
little bit difficult with his second serve because it was coming into my body. It took me
a while to adjust when I was trying to chip-and-charge. I felt like I was putting pressure
on him. Once I got the break in the first set, I felt like it was a good basis to work
from. As you say, he's the type of guy you want to keep on the back foot. You want to make
sure that he doesn't get too involved in the match. I think I was able to do that today.

Q. Getting out of that game immediately before you broke seemed to sort of tip the
balance of the whole match. From then on it looked like you were very much in charge. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that's right. I think it can happen like that. That was what I wanted
to try and avoid, to let him get into the match. It was important for me to hold on to
that seventh game. I think I won the last ten points of the first set. That definitely
sort of stamped my authority on the match. I got an early break in the second set, just
tried not to let up in any way with my game plan, with my intensity, with my serving. I
don't think I did.

Q. The crowd remained very much bringing you through. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. It's great. I love every minute of it. They do, they help. I think it
makes me a little bit more focused, I think. I seemed to concentrate for long periods out
there. Definitely no hiccups today. 

Q. Do you realise there's hundreds outside watching on the banks?

TIM HENMAN: It's tough to be aware of that. You've seen it on occasions. It's great
that there's so much interest. You know, that relates to so much support for me. Just when
I walk on the court and put my bags down, they start sort of chanting my name. It gives
you a big lift. That's before the match has even started.

Q. Did you get a chance to get in the locker room to see the end of Philippoussis?

TIM HENMAN: I walked on the Court 1-love in the fifth to Schalken. I came off at 6-All.
I just said to Philippoussis, "What took you so long? I played my match in one set of
yours." 

Q. Was there a different feeling today with the parade and all?

TIM HENMAN: I think it was a pretty special day for I'm sure all those people involved,
but I think just all the spectators, and I think the players today. My practise wasn't
going to start out until Mr. Borg had walked on the court. I think it was a pretty special
day. 

Q. What did Philippoussis say when you asked him why he'd taken so long?

TIM HENMAN: He was just happy to get through it, and quite rightly so. It's a great
effort from both of them. From what I hear, you know, the quality of the tennis was
extremely high. It's a great effort from him. I think he was always behind in the fifth.
To keep serving to stay in the match, eventually come through it - I'm sure it's a big
confidence booster for him.

Q. Hope he's shattered?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, hope he's a bit tired (smiling). He's a strong guy. He's serving
well. I dread to think how many aces he served. 

Q. 44. 

TIM HENMAN: Good effort.

Q. Have you felt as good as this going into the second week before?

TIM HENMAN: Don't get me wrong, I was really, really pleased with the way I played
today. I think it was a very, very good performance. But I still feel like I'm, you know,
working my way into the tournament, and my game has definitely got better as each match
has gone on. But I'm not suddenly going to start taking things for granted because I've
definitely had to improve my game. I was not the most confident person in the draw in the
first round, but that's definitely increasing all the time.

Q. How do you prepare tomorrow to face the Scud?

TIM HENMAN: It's definitely going to be a question of trying to make him play as much
as possible. It's going to be a different type of match. He's someone that's going to be
serving and volleying on both balls. If anything, I sometimes prefer a target. I haven't
had too many targets to aim at in the tournament so far. I look forward to it, but I'm
under no illusions. It's going to be a very, very tough match. Ball down to who plays best
on the day.

Q. How do you feel now going into the second week compared with coming into the first
week?

TIM HENMAN: Well, I got three pretty good wins under my belt. I had two pretty good
losses coming in on Monday. Yeah, it's changed -- it's definitely changed my feelings to
my game. Having said that, I think I made it pretty clear that I wasn't going to judge
myself too much on those two previous performances. But I'm very pleased with the way I've
been playing. As we've seen so many upsets, just glad to be still alive heading into the
second week.

Q. Can David find anybody to sort of replicate Philippoussis' serve for you? 

TIM HENMAN: I mean, probably if someone stood on my side of the court and just started
drilling balls at me, that would be about the equivalent. But, no, I've played him a few
times before. You know, I mean, he serves big. Don't get me wrong. But my first-round
opponent, I still haven't tried to pronounce his name, but he serves 130 and above. It's
not the first time that I've played against big servers. I'm going to have to be, you
know, sharp out there.

Q. Does it feel like going into another tournament next week now? You've got this week
over. 

TIM HENMAN: To a certain extent it's a little bit like that. You got through the first
week, then you do have that sense of sort of regrouping and starting again. That's
definitely what I'll be doing. I'll take a lot out of the way I've played in the first
three matches, and then start again come Monday. I'm looking forward to it, no question.

Q. Some players say whoever gets into the start of a second week have got a chance of
winning. 

TIM HENMAN: Yes. 

Q. I was going to say, with the number of seeds that have gone out already, is this
something you've got a goal against perhaps being a little too optimistic? Is the extra
pressure building up?

TIM HENMAN: There are so many different ways to look at it, I think. I think from my
point of view, I've said all along that when there have been so many upsets, you really
have just got to take nothing for granted. I think that's been the best approach for me
because I've been just very focused on concentrating on what I'm trying to do. Each match,
I've just started again, I've worked my way into the way I've returned, the way I've
served. I've built it up in each match. It's worked well so far. I think I'm just going to
continue with that. 

Q. Are you able to appreciate and enjoy it now more than you did, say, three or four
years ago?

TIM HENMAN: No, I still think my level of enjoyment is pretty much as high as it gets.
I realise that in my first-round match there was probably a little extra pressure on me.
But when I go out on the court, you know, that is not -- certainly not what I'm thinking
about. First and foremost, if I go out and enjoy myself, I'm probably halfway to playing
some good tennis. You know, that's important, I think. We're very lucky that this is my
occupation, but it's also my hobby, if you like. You shouldn't forget that, I don't think.


Q. Are you a cricket fan?

TIM HENMAN: Yes.

Q. There's been a pretty special day for English sport. 

TIM HENMAN: It has. 

Q. You would have been on court when they won. 

TIM HENMAN: It's a great effort. It was a pretty amazing day yesterday. I think they
said it was the first time that all four innings had taken place in one day, which is
pretty amazing. 

Q. Nice to have two English winners. 

TIM HENMAN: Hasn't been happening a great deal in British sport.

Q. Were you aware of the cricket result before you came off court?

TIM HENMAN: No. There were like 140 for 4, then up 145 for 6.

Q. One of the Army stewards was shouting at the top of his voice. A big cheer went
around half the court. I wondered whether you heard it. 

TIM HENMAN: No. I kind of wondered. They do tend to put up some of the scores from
outside courts. I noticed Philippoussis when it was about 8-All. Then I made a conscious
effort not to worry about that. That's the last thing I wanted to start thinking about -
there is my next opponent - when I'm still in the first set. I made a conscious effort not
to look at the score boards. There was obviously a lot of interest from the crowds looking
at those. You know, it was important for me to concentrate on my job. 

Q. Schalken made the point that last year he had a very tough match with Courier, and
lost it. Of course, you got Courier in the next round. Didn't reduce his power on that
occasion, did it?

TIM HENMAN: No. Maybe Sjeng is looking for a cut of my prize money (laughter). I think
he lost 13-11 in the fifth to Courier. Courier's fitness has never been a problem. He came
straight back to play a really tough match against me. I expect no different from
Philippoussis. 

Q. How much of that parade today did you see? To someone like you, seeing a parade with
all those great champions from the past, does that add to the inspiration for you?

TIM HENMAN: Actually, I think it did. When they were talking about the parade,
obviously everyone was aware of it, you know, it's a great idea. Let's face it, they're
legends of the game. It was great. I think you probably haven't spoken to any of them, but
I'm sure they enjoyed it. I certainly enjoyed watching it. Borg was a big hero of mine.
For the first time for him to come back in 19 years or something, I think it was pretty
special.

Q. So a feeling that perhaps in 20 or 30 years, when the next parade takes place?

TIM HENMAN: I want to be in it. I want to be part of it. That's an added incentive for
me.

Q. Looking at the way the draw is panning out, falling apart, are you sort of mentally
preparing yourself, if you get to the final, you have to go through Philippoussis, Agassi?

TIM HENMAN: You're aware of it. You're aware of it. But, again, it's sort of more you
guys pay more attention to it than someone like I would. You know you can't look that far
in front in advance. You really have to just concentrate on each match at a time. It's a
pretty boring cliche, one match at a time, but it's very true.

Q. Your part of the draw is the only one remaining. 

TIM HENMAN: The bottom is pretty lopsided. The bottom half seems to have more seeds
remaining. Again, you just have to worry about your next opponent. That's all you can do. 

Q. Do you have a message for the highly expected British fans now going to the second
week?

TIM HENMAN: Just, I'm going to do my very best to keep going with my own performance. I
just hope they can keep supporting me as they have done. As ever, they've been amazing. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT