WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. You seemed pretty pumped up for that one throughout. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I think I had to be. Definitely got to give him credit for the way he
played early on. Took me a little bit -- took me a little while to work out the right
tactic to play him. You know, when I was giving him a target in the first set, that was
what he liked. Some of the returns, some of the passing shots he hit were very, very good.
I had to be tactically aware and change things around. I think I did that. The next three
sets, I can't have any complaints the way I played.

Q. Are you getting to like No. 1 Court any more these days?

TIM HENMAN: Yes. I feel like the court surface itself has probably changed a little bit
in the last few years. I feel like it's a fraction slower than before. I always felt like
it was very, very hard and the ball really skidded off. Today I felt like it was a little
bit slower than it had been. I enjoyed it.

Q. Did the event of yesterday evening play at all on your mind?

TIM HENMAN: I think, if anything, I had to try and, you know, learn a little bit from
that. I watched quite a lot of it. Greg had a rough time out there. My sort of initial
reaction was that I've got to try and avoid putting myself in the same situation. Having
said that, you know, my opponent today played really, really well in the first set. I
didn't feel like I did too much wrong. But then when I changed things around, I started to
cause him more and more problems. 

Q. Was it almost a case of watching Greg and thinking, "I've got to be absolutely
spot on here because anything can happen on this court"? 

TIM HENMAN: Sure, it is. It's like that. At this level, it doesn't take very much to be
on the receiving end of a tough loss sort of thing. I felt like I just wanted to
concentrate on my own game. I think my standard got better and better as the match went
on. You know, it's nothing to get carried away. I got through Round 1, and that's a good
start for me.

Q. Are you surprised to see who you're seeing in Round 2?

TIM HENMAN: I think there's an element of surprise. I think it was obvious to everyone
that Ivanisevic was expected to win that match. But likewise, as I said, if you don't play
quite well enough, then you're probably going to lose in this type of tournament. You
know, I haven't seen a ball of that match being hit, but obviously Clement is playing
very, very well.

Q. Was there any sense of Greg being out and that putting more pressure on you?

TIM HENMAN: I think it's fair to say I've probably got enough on myself at the moment.
There's always an amount of pressure and expectation. As I said, irrespective of his
results, it's important I worry about what I'm trying to do. You know, I think it's pretty
clear to everyone that my last two matches I haven't played as well as I'd like, but
you've got to work hard for everything you get. 

Q. Is there a sort of comforting sense for you, almost like when Wimbledon starts, you
walk through the gates, the buildup and hype is over?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. You definitely want to get going. Irrespective of my results in the
two previous tournaments, it's not the way I wanted to come into this tournament. As I
said, there was nothing I could do about that now. If I was being honest, I felt like
there really wasn't much wrong with the way I was playing. I felt like I was hitting the
ball well. I played poorly at Queen's, but at Nottingham I lost to the better player. I
think probably there were people that were a little bit more concerned than I was actually
about my game. As I said, I had to come out and play the tennis I'm capable of, but almost
just let things happen. Wimbledon definitely does bring out something extra in me. 

Q. Is there a feeling of, "Oh, no, here we go," after losing that first set?

TIM HENMAN: Not at all. I think there were two options that I had after losing that
set: Either I could have had your attitude of, "Oh, no, here we go again," or
another attitude to be, "Stand up and be counted." That was the attitude I was
definitely going to have. He played better than me in the first set, but I wasn't going to
suddenly start pressing panic buttons. I had lost the set and had a long way to go.

Q. How certain were you that things would turn around?

TIM HENMAN: I think that's difficult. That's a difficult thing to predict in this
sport. You know what you've got to do out there. If I would have changed things and
altered my game, he had then been able to deal with that and played as well as he had in
the first set for three sets and beaten me, then too good. That was where I was aware,
tactically aware to turn things around. That was good from my point of view. 

Q. Were you expecting him to start as well as he did?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. He's the type of player that I've seen in different tournaments and
he likes to rise to the occasion, just as I've done at certain times. I saw him play a lot
in the Hopman Cup, I saw him play his first round in the Australian Open when he beat
Kucera. He's a good player. There aren't any bad players in this tournament. If I was
naive enough to come into a match not expecting him to play as well as he did, that would
be a huge error. We're professionals. That's not going to happen. 

Q. Is it pleasing to see Arvind through again?

TIM HENMAN: Definitely, yeah. I think -- when we put our British tennis hat on, the
more wins we can have, the better. He's definitely one guy that's making some progress. I
really hope that he can continue that. 

Q. Greg was looking forward, saying he wants to get away. Is that a concern with a big
Davis Cup match coming up?

TIM HENMAN: I don't think so. If that's what he wants to do, that's fine. He's got
plenty of time between now and Davis Cup. It's difficult. He's got to believe in what he
wants to do. You only have to listen and watch television, there are thousands of opinions
being asked and spoken. He's got to believe in himself and believe in his coach. If he
doesn't want to hit a ball between now and Davis Cup, if he believes that's the right
thing to do, go and do it, don't worry about what anybody else says. If he wants to
practise tomorrow, then go out and practise, believe in yourself. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT