TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 10, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. That must be pretty disappointing, you played so well for most of the match and have
nothing to show for it?

TIM HENMAN: I think that sums it up quite well. I think the only slight criticism I
could have was to try and impose myself earlier on in the third set because I did that
well in the second set. I got an early break and, you know, fought that out pretty well.
But I think in the third set I never really created too many chances, I think 15-30 was my
best chance at 4-all. And I needed to try and play those types of games early on to put
him under pressure.

Q. Was that the physical side of things, Tim? I mean, towards the end it just did not
seem like you were tired, whether you were?

TIM HENMAN: No, not at all. Nothing's due to my physical side. It's about trying to
create opportunities, and I think especially from the left of the umpire's chair, that end
was easier. There was definitely a breeze coming down the court. That's when you have to
try to put some pressure on the server because, you know, it was probably playing up from
the other end. And on the two occasions that I had return games from the easy end, I
didn't really put him under too much pressure. That was the one thing I would like to
change.

Q. First set was quite interesting in a sense, too, because you had those three break
points, okay, he had the serve. (Inaudible) Then it looked as if it disappeared from you,
but you got back to a tiebreaker which again went this way and that. So even the first set
you could have established yourself?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that's claycourt tennis for you. It's, you know, it's a difference in
if you're playing on a quick court and if I'm serving well, then you can run away from
things. On clay, it can turn around very quickly. And as you say, I had some chances. He
served the first set, I played a good game to break back, and, you know, it was a close
tiebreak that went his way. And, as I said before, I responded well by getting an early
break in the second set.

Q. Any suggestion or feeling, you think in that third set both of you were almost
waiting for maybe two good opportunities.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that's right. There weren't really too many opportunities going
around in the third, and I think we would both have liked to put more pressure on the
server. Having said that, I think the serving was of a pretty good quality. So on each
occasion, we weren't letting the returners get too involved in the service games. You
know, you could say that's a good sign, because I think I was -- I served pretty
consistently. But, you know, as you say, he was the one that created one opportunity and
he took that at the end. And you got to give him a certain amount of credit for that.

Q. Different from your last match, wasn't it? You said you wanted to improve and you
certainly did.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I did. I would have much rather played horrendously and won, but it
doesn't work like that unfortunately.

Q. Is it the case, Tim, you can see improvements? You say you would rather have played
badly and won. But you can see the progress you've made and you take it from that?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it is, as I've said, I've said a number of times to you guys and I'll
say it time and time again, it's about winning and losing at this level. Having said that,
I do feel like I can't have too many complaints. I played a good match today, and he was
fractionally better than me. But I have to, you know, I have to keep -- I still got a
couple more opportunities in Hamburg, then hopefully the French, and I've got to be ready
to take one of those. The two matches that I've lost, here and in Monte Carlo, you know,
I'd like to reverse those, and I feel confident that I can do that in the next couple of
tournaments.

Q. You're certainly a different player than the one who played here two years ago,
wasn't it, in the first round? You didn't want to be here?

TIM HENMAN: No, I think that was fair to say.

Q. Today it was slugging all day if necessary, right?

TIM HENMAN: That's right. He's unorthodox and he's very difficult to play on clay, he's
difficult to play on most surfaces. But I think on the hardcourts and indoors you feel
like -- I feel like I can perhaps overpower him with my serve and get a little bit of help
from the back of the court. But on a slow claycourt like it was today, runs down, lot of
balls and, you know, he disguises all his shots very well. So it's difficult -- he's a
very difficult opponent.

Q. When you sensed that first chance, you were ready to pounce in that last game with
the returns, he did take them very well.

TIM HENMAN: He did. No question. He had one pretty good passing shot and I served the
first matchpoint, but, you know, he hit a good return, good return --

Q. He stepped in?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, he took it on. And that's why you have to give him a certain amount
of credit for that.

Q. Who do you think is going to win this now?

TIM HENMAN: I think it's pretty open. There's a lot of people that could. Agassi, I
presume he won. And, you know, some of the Spanish guys look, as usual, look like they're
playing well.

Q. You haven't seen anything of Safin since he's been knocking people --

TIM HENMAN: Not really, no. It's amazing how things can turn around. He, I think, had a
lot of first round losses, and all of a sudden he's won two matches in a row.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT