TMS - FORO ITALICO
May 8, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TIM HENMAN: I'm playing again on Wednesday, that's the most important thing. I've given
myself another chance to improve because I thought it was a bit of a struggle today. I
don't think it helped, but we practiced together Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday in London
before we came up here. We practiced together. I practiced with Byron on Monday, Tuesday
and Wednesday before we came out here.

Q. Those of us whose eyesight isn't quite as good as it might be thought you might have
been a little bit fortunate to get called in the tiebreak?

TIM HENMAN: No, I think I disagree. It was very, very close, but the one at 5-2? Yeah,
no, I think it definitely was on the edge of the line. But more so that I heard it hit the
line.

Q. You heard it?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I felt like, yeah, it definitely was really, really close. But, no,
it's 6-2 down, I think pretty much finished the set. But 5-3, a good serve, and there was
the angle that I was at was perhaps a fraction easier. There was a fraction of a breeze. I
hit some good forehands at that stage. But no, it was difficult. I've been practicing
really, really well. Then I came out, couldn't stand up for the first, you know, for the
first games, found it pretty slippery. And it wasn't -- yeah, it wasn't my best tennis.
But as I said, I'm giving myself another chance to improve on Wednesday. And, you know, if
I'm being a little bit critical of my wins on clay, I think that can only be a good sign.

Q. Apart from the result was the most pleasing thing, the fact that you actually came
up with some of your best points, some of your best serves when they were most critically
needed.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think when it was -- I started off the match well, and then
struggled a bit after that. But as you say, winning in some important stages, I did, I
played some good tennis. And through all the adversities that I had, I seemed to respond
well from those. The game that I lost at 4-3, served some break points, and with some big
serves. And, you know, missed -- I gave him a second chance on a backhand volley where I
had the open court. Missed a lob by half an inch to win the game, and even when I lost
that game, the next game was a very good comeback for me.

Q. You and Byron practiced Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday of last week. How difficult
was it for him to go out and worry about a tennis match when back in his homeland he's got
all kinds of shit going down? He must be worried about his parents?

TIM HENMAN: We had dinner together as well. It is a pretty -- I think it's a pretty
volatile situation for him. You know, he says where his family lives is closer to the
city, and so I don't think he feels quite as affected as other people that live further
away. But, you know, I think it's pretty unsettling for everybody over there.

Q. I mean, can he concentrate on tennis? Can he get his head on tennis? We asked him if
he'd come down and talk to us, and he said he didn't want to talk about the situation at
home because he feared repercussions of what he would say.

TIM HENMAN: Really?

Q. Yeah.

TIM HENMAN: I didn't know that. Yeah, you can't really comprehend something like that.
You can only comprehend it -- you can only understand it if it's happening to you. So I
just think he'll feel a lot more comfortable when his wife's in London. I know that she's
on her way over fairly shortly.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT