TMS MONTE CARLO
April 19, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
Q. He is a very talented player without any doubt. Having said that, you may well be
disappointed having got back into it; let it go again?

TIM HENMAN: Exactly that. I felt like he was obviously dominating things to begin with.
But in one instance it turned around very quickly for me from 4-2 game point down, I won 7
of the next 8 games to be up 3-1; then I get the breakpoint and miss a passing shot by
just a little bit. But then that is where I have got to make sure that it doesn't then
turn around for his advantage and that is the first frustrating aspect, that it is just a
couple of good shots from him, a couple of unforced errors, then suddenly from there only
being one winner in the third set, it is back on level terms.

Q. How good is he, do you think, on this surface, in particular, or how much potential
talent has he got? 

TIM HENMAN: I don't know a great deal about his past, but this year he has obviously
been playing well. He has won a title on clay and he is obviously very, very comfortable
at home on clay, but the situation that I got into, there was no doubt I should have won
the match.

Q. Did you feel though in that run when you had those seven games in a row that you
were playing some of the best clay court tennis you played for a while?

TIM HENMAN: Well, it was a lot better than I had been playing from 6-2, 4-2 I was
getting the balance right of being aggressive, but being consistent and not making those
unforced errors. And my biggest problem is that that is a very fine line and I have got to
keep being aggressive, but that doesn't mean taking unnecessary risks, and my first serve
percentage dropped and he starts to be more consistent and he gets the second wind there,
he is hanging in the match, when I got on a roll, looked like I was down and out, but to
his credit, he hung in and gave himself a second chance in the third set.

Q. You won't change your routine; still going to play -- not going to play anything
else other than Rome?

TIM HENMAN: I don't think so. I haven't really got that far. I will concentrate on the
doubles here and see how that goes, but I know that I have got to keep working on the
practice court to get the level of play consistently higher.

Q. Do you think that would have only have happened on clay or could it have happened --

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, no, I think with the way I am playing on all other surfaces I am
capable of dominating players and obviously for the seven games that I played better, I
can dominate people on clay. But it is -- the problem I have is when that level drops a
fraction to keep playing aggressively and if that consistency isn't quite there, then it
is very, very difficult and that is, as I have always said, that is the challenge for me.
I think when I am being dominated on clay, that is when I struggle. I find -- I do find it
difficult to turn things around, but I am definitely capable because I got back into a
winning situation.

Q. He has an incredible reach, don't he --

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, no.

Q. -- quite a wing span when he came to the net as well...

TIM HENMAN: I wouldn't say he is at his most comfortable at net, but from the baseline
he's got a great backhand, forehand, hits with a lot of topspin able to -- moved me around
the court so, yeah, he is not a straightforward guy to play.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT