TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ATP: Questions for Tim.  
 
Q. Having been a part of a match like that, is that any consolation now that you've
lost it?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Not really. It's obviously about winning and losing. I won more games; I
probably won more points. At the end of the day, I suppose I didn't win the most important
ones. No, it was a good match, but I think the frustration of losing is the overriding
feeling.  
 
Q. When you served the double at match point in the tiebreak, my thoughts went back to
last year, quarterfinals of Masters Series, Chris Woodruff. Did that go through your mind
as well?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Not really, no. I was thinking about my next point. When you're serving
with a big strong wind behind you, your margin of error is pretty small. I served some
doubles in the match up until then. It wasn't the ideal time, but that's the way it goes.  
 
Q. When you took the balls to serve for the match at 5-4, you played a very strong
first point, what were you feeling at that point? 
 
 TIM HENMAN: You're just trying to take it one point at a time. That was exactly the way
I wanted to start. Having said that, I knew that serving into the wind, I had to be
aggressive. There's no point in just rolling the serves in. I made him come up with some
big shots at the right time for him. I felt like when I was up 5-3 in the third, I thought
that was a pretty crucial game on his serve. I'd have liked to have tried to have broken
him for the match. But, yeah, you know, it was close. It was anyone's match. 
 
Q. At that stage, when you served at 5-3, you had an ace on game point, he didn't move
at all for the ball. Did you feel that he was drained at that point?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I'm sure we both were pretty tired. But, you know, you're just giving it
everything you've got. Realized that later on in the third set, there was only probably a
couple more games to go. You just give it everything you've got. I think we can both
categorically say that we did that. Unfortunately, my effort wasn't good enough.  
 
Q. Even though you didn't like the turnout, were you impressed with the way you played
today?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think I played a pretty good match, yeah. I think my game has definitely
been improving. But right now, it's the winning and losing that's the most important
thing. 
 
Q. How heartbreaking is a defeat like that, having gotten so close?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it is. It's very disappointing. As someone said, Could you take heart
from the performance? I played a good match. But as I've said, at this level, it's about
winning and losing. Right now, yeah, it's very disappointing.  
 
Q. You say a fairly good match. Some of us thought the first five games of the second
set were about the best tennis you've ever played. 
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think I played, yeah, pretty well. I think his level dropped off a little
bit. I definitely kept my level after playing a pretty good first set. I think the
standard of tennis was high. If anything, he probably dropped his level just a fraction.
When I had my chances, I took them. I ran away with the second set pretty comfortably. 
 
Q. Did you think you'd get eight straight points (inaudible)? 
 
 TIM HENMAN: Again, it felt like my match with Rios. When you've got the wind coming
from one direction, when you're playing downwind, that's when you've got a pretty big
advantage. I had lost my serve serving into the wind, so I knew I had to make life
difficult for him when he was serving into the wind. As you say, that was a great time to
break straight back to love, and held my serve again to keep the pressure on. When the
wind is in the direction as it was, you know, it's tough from one end.  
 
Q. On the first set point, you had that stretch forehand volley. Were you thinking,
"I have it right here"? 
 
 TIM HENMAN: No, not at all. I think it's difficult perhaps for you to understand if
you're not playing out there. It's happening pretty quickly. I think, you know, definitely
that match point I wouldn't have played any differently. That was a first serve. As I'd
been the whole match, I was aggressive, I took it on. He hit a great passing shot. He has
very little margin for error on that shot. Downwind, if he slightly miss-hits it, you
know, it's going to be out. But he hit a good passing shot. I still did well to get to the
volley, but I couldn't quite control it. 
 
Q. Was there any element of your game that you felt let you down at all or was it just
a matter of losing a few points?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I don't think I can have too many complaints the way I played. I had my
game plan. I knew what my game plan should be, if I was going to give myself a chance of
beating Andre. I went out there and executed. At the end of the day, it wasn't quite good
enough.  
 
Q. Was there any technical reason from the far end of the court you were serving ten
times better to the deuce court than the ad court? Was it a sun problem?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Not really. I think the general direction of the wind is slightly into that
corner. I'd been hitting my slice serve wide to the deuce box pretty effectively and
consistently. I perhaps didn't quite serve as well to the ad box as I did to the deuce
box. That probably wasn't quite such an easy serve.  
 
Q. In a sense, we've come to the end of the first section of the season. Now everybody
looks forward to the clay. How would you assess your progress so far?
 
 TIM HENMAN: It's been a very solid start. I've spoken before at length about how I felt
this was Phase II. You know, there's still a long, long way to go. I realize that my
game's moving in the right direction, but I've got to make sure that that continues. I've
been working hard off the court. If you're going to do that, I've always believed that the
results will come on the court. I've got to make sure I continue that.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT