TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ATP: Questions, please. 

Q. An understatement to say it was a bit of a topsy-turvy match?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it was. I thought the first two sets were absolutely identical in
that I think I outplayed him in the first set; then vice versa, I was totally outplayed in
the second. You know, the run of games, I think it went to 1-Love, 1-All, then straight
through to 6-1. But, yeah, then it was two easy sets. I think it was always going to boil
down to a tight one. With the amount of chances I'd had, I think I would have been very
disappointed to lose that. Having said that, I felt like the only poor game I played was
once I broke to go up 3-1. Serving downwind, that was definitely the easy end. But having
said that, you know, he then followed it up with a pretty terrible game to give me 4-2.
Although I lost my serve at 4-2, I felt like I played a pretty good game. He hit a couple
great passing shots. You know, once we got down to the tiebreaker, I wouldn't say I went
into it with the utmost of confidence. But I wanted to make sure that this one I was very
aggressive. Yeah, it was a very satisfying win to come through in those circumstances.

Q. Just before push did come to shove, you got an absolutely horrendous call which
could easily have unsettled you. 

TIM HENMAN: It was. I think it was pretty clear for everybody to see. At such an
important stage, it was a little bit unsettling. The next two points were important that I
played tough points, had a good next point to come in on a good approach, then finish it
off with a good volley. I was pretty pleased to get that game out of the way to get my
nose in front at 5-4. Then again, I felt like I wanted to get a big lead in the
tiebreaker. I started off well, but it wasn't ideal to be 3-All, then playing into the
wind. But I played some really good points, none better than the last one.

Q. Was the wind more of a factor today than it was yesterday?

TIM HENMAN: Yes and no. I think yesterday's wind probably was a little bit harder
because it was swirling. It was always consistent, coming in one direction. Yeah, it
normally makes it a little bit easier. Yeah, from one end you can barely touch the ball
and it's going to the baseline; the other end you're hitting it as hard as you can to try
to get it to the service line. It definitely takes some adjusting. You know, again, my
game plan was to get forward as quickly as possible, to be aggressive. It paid off.

Q. He used to be known as sort of the Ironman of this game, he could run forever.
Today, he seemed to be tiring a bit towards the end. 

TIM HENMAN: I think that he hasn't actually played so many tournaments since he's been
back. I definitely felt very good about the way I was moving. There were times when
obviously I was trying to get forward as quickly as possible because that was my game
plan. But certainly a couple of points where I stayed in as long as I could, I felt like
my movement was as good as it's been. That's a good sign for me. 

Q. Was that first set the sort of form you've been looking for?

TIM HENMAN: Definitely. I couldn't have had any complaints. I had very good rhythm on
my serve, especially when I was serving into the wind. Those are important games to try to
hold onto. Again, as I had been against Zabaleta, I was covering the net well. When it's
windy, you know, it's much harder to hit those passing shots close to the line. I felt
like if they're not hitting close to the line, I have a good chance of cutting them off.

Q. Was the heat more of a factor today?

TIM HENMAN: I felt, yeah, in the beginning it was definitely hotter than it had been
previous days. Again, with the wind, that helps to cool it down. I think as the match went
on, it was probably getting a little bit cooler. But, again, with it being hot, it makes
the balls a little bit quicker. That certainly favors me.

Q. Do you feel that your movement that you mentioned, your ability to scrap it out and
contain was, at the end, as big a factor as your intention to push forward?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I think in some of the matches where I haven't played quite as well
as I would have liked - Zabaleta in London springs to mind - my movement hasn't been as
good as perhaps on other occasions. It's when I'm not moving quite as well, I get a little
bit rushed on my shots. Sometimes my forehand can be a little bit late preparing. That's
when unforced errors creep in. I think if I move well, get in position early, it gives you
plenty of time to hit your shots that you want to go for. 

Q. What about the next one?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it's going to be another tough one. I really feel like I've got
nothing to lose in these circumstances. But it's important that I go out and continue with
my game plan, put myself on the line and play the way I have been. If he's able to come up
with the passing shots, then that's too good. I'll just try and make life difficult for
him.

Q. Rios says you have no chance. 

TIM HENMAN: That's his opinion, isn't it? 

Q. Couple of strange results the last few weeks. Is Agassi perhaps even well ahead of
Sampras at the moment on current form?

TIM HENMAN: It's difficult, isn't it? I think you would have said, you know, the roll
he'd been on after Australia, he was definitely playing as well as we'd perhaps ever seen.
But, yeah, he definitely came a little unstuck in Scottsdale and Indian Wells. He's
definitely working back towards his best. So, yeah, it's great for me to put myself up
against the best. He's No. 1 at the moment. He's No. 1 in the race. It's good to give
myself a chance to play against the best. I've beaten him before. I don't see -- there's
no reason why I can't beat him again. 

Q. The young American who played Agassi the other day in the first round said that it's
not until you're on the court that you can realize where he is. Is his serve as difficult
to read?

TIM HENMAN: It's deceptive. I mean, he's not hopefully going to serve too many aces,
but he does make a high percentage. He's capable of taking you out of the court on both
sides. Again, yeah, he returns probably the best of anybody. He likes to dictate the play
from the baseline. Again, it's tough for him to dictate play if I'm at the net and I'm
coming in every opportunity. So that's definitely the game plan. I'm sure he's aware that
that's the way I'm going to play. I feel like if I keep coming in, coming in behind some
good approach shots, it's going to be difficult for him to make the passes.

Q. Do you know when it will be?

TIM HENMAN: No idea.

Q. Did you feel today in that second set that maybe you didn't come in as often as you
would have liked? 

TIM HENMAN: I think I definitely hadn't been coming in as much as I had been. I think
that was more due to lack of opportunities. I definitely was being kept back. He was much
more aggressive. That's when he's playing at his best, he's dictating the play. But, yeah,
I wasn't going to worry about that too much. It was just important that I try to create
some of those opportunities, and I definitely did as the match progressed. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT