PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 10, 2007
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please, for Tim.   
  
  Q.  Is that sort of, do you think, the price to be paid for not having lots of match practice?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I think, yeah, I mean it's erratic.  You know, getting off to the start, I think it sort of set the tone for the lack of rhythm on my serve.  I think that was always going to be, you know, a key factor.  When I did start to serve a little bit better in the second set, early part of the third set, then, you know, I felt like I can be the one dictating play.   
 But when my serving was that erratic, when I stopped missing first serves, then he's able to get into more and more games, more and more baseline rallies, and life becomes more difficult.  And I think, you know, in all honesty, is a reflection of lack of match play.  And, you know, it's something that I've got to be a little bit patient with and keep working hard towards.   
  
  Q.  Is that kind of the last thing to come back when you haven't had all the matches, sort of what to do in tight situations or break points or how to take issues?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I just think it's an overall element of sort of concentration and being able to sustain a level of play for that length of time.  And that's obviously an area that wasn't good today because I had, you know, a tough start and I kept competing.  It wasn't a great first set, but I started to pick my rhythm up.   
 You know, second set was improving, and obviously I had my chances in the third.  But as I said, when it's just that little bit inconsistent, then you can't take anything for granted.   
  
  Q.  You've had all these time-outs, these were hot conditions out there, two and a half hours, how do you actually feel at the moment?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Well, yeah, I mean, trying to pick the positives out of it.  I mean, physically I felt great on the court, you know, no pain or soreness in my knee and my back's continued to be good.  So that's, you know, a positive aspect.   
 But, you know, I would have -- it would have been good to get through a match like this, where I wasn't playing my best, to get a win under my belt, and quite often, you can, you know, kick off from that.  But, you know, it wasn't to be.   
 But I'll keep doing the right things on the practice court and, you know, hopefully it will come on the match court.   
  
  Q.  How frustrating was it to be away for three months, given it was December, but the whole absence?   
 TIM HENMAN:  You know, it happens.  And it's happened so little to me.  I've missed so little tennis in my career, you know, it does happen from time to time.  So, you know, it's not -- it's not ideal, but not the be all and end all either.   
  
  Q.  When did you play your last match before Vegas, it was Basel?   
 TIM HENMAN:  That's when I hurt my knee.  It just took a lot longer than I thought it would to settle down, so you know, to miss Australia was disappointing, but, you know, I think there's going to be, you know, plenty more tennis the rest of the year.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Anything else?   
  
  Q.  Do your expectations change for Miami or is it still about getting as much practice in?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I thinks the same as it was here.  I'm just going to, you know, take it step by step, tournament by tournament.  And, you know, as I said, you know, it's a good schedule coming up.  You know, it's a tough one.  There are no easy events.  They're all going to be big, big tournaments.  You know, it's important I do stay patient because it has been four months with no match play, and if it takes me a little bit, a little while to get back into the rhythm of things, then so be it.   
 But, no, I'm -- you know, you've got to stay in one piece, as well, and that was obviously a good outcome of the match, even if the result wasn't.   
  
  Q.  Tim, if you've answered this before, I apologize.  The future of British tennis, now that they're making some changes, some Americans are involved, what's your prognosis?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, there's obviously been a lot of thing.  There's been some high-profile people brought in and, you know, I think they can have a big impact.   
 But at the end of the day, you know, we're always going to be judged on the results on the court and that's what we'll be looking to improve.   
  
  Q.  Nice run in doubles, presume to be...   
 TIM HENMAN:  Just more court time, match time, the better.  So hopefully, we can, you know, play well there and see how we do.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT