TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 25, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ATP: Questions for Tim.

Q. Great way to get to match point, wasn't it, on that ball that you whacked down the
line? 

TIM HENMAN: I think it was the one after. I was waiting to hear an "out"
call, but it never quite materialized. I was satisfied with my pass that preceded it.

Q. Interesting calls out there. 

TIM HENMAN: There were a few close ones. Hopefully they level themselves out at the end
of the day. You just hope that it's not one of those doubtful ones on a very big point.

Q. I think you lost 2-5 today, five against you, two against him. 

TIM HENMAN: It did feel a little bit lopsided. I'm optimistic about my next match. 

Q. Was it difficult to get to the net and hold the net position without being passed?

TIM HENMAN: I think I was passed a lot today, but it was definitely -- my game plan was
definitely to be aggressive. A lot of the time he did hit some good passing shots. That
was the game plan; I had to stick to it. Even if he did hit a few good shots, I wasn't
going to be deterred.

Q. How much did you know about him beforehand?

TIM HENMAN: Not as much as I knew about Rosset, that's for sure. But seeing him play
bits of that match, I knew that he's a player that's won a lot of matches recently:
qualifying, obviously, I think he made semis after Challenger last week, so he's
confident. He's definitely got a big game to back it up. 

Q. Now Zabaleta?

TIM HENMAN: That's right. Another Argentinian. 

Q. Lining up, aren't they?

TIM HENMAN: That's right. I know a lot more about him. My record is not a positive one.
I'd like to try and get a win. I feel like my game will definitely give me an opportunity
to do that. 

Q. You lost to him on clay, didn't you, in Hamburg?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I lost to him indoors, in London. But it's a good opportunity, as I
said, to get my first win against him. I felt like the conditions were really good today:
it was less humid, it was hotter. The courts were playing relatively quick; that suited
me. 

Q. Have you had a chance to say anything to Roger at all?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I've spoken to him at length. He's watched most of my practices. I
think it's good to have him out here, not only to learn about our games and the way we
play, but also to see a lot of our future opponents. We don't know who we play yet, but
I'm sure they're playing here somewhere. It's good to have him around. 

Q. You say "our." Have you spoken to your teammate?

TIM HENMAN: Not really. I can only speak on behalf of myself. I've made it very clear,
plainly clear, as it always will be, that Davis Cup is one of the priorities on my
schedule. There's been a difficult few weeks with the change of captain, but whoever is
sitting at the side of the court, you know, I don't think it will change my attitude
towards Davis Cup. I'll be out there giving everything I've got.

Q. Does appear to be a question mark over Greg's commitment to it. Do you think you
could play a part in that at all?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think I perhaps at some stage could try and help the situation. I
desperately want to be playing with Greg. I think it's also fair to say that this is not
the time and the place. Hopefully in the next few weeks, that opportunity will arise.

Q. Is it at all unsettling at the moment?

TIM HENMAN: No, not at all. That's his business at the end of the day. At the end of
the day, it will be him that makes that decision. You know, I hope it's a positive one. 

Q. Was Calleri's level of play and consistency a bit of a surprise?

TIM HENMAN: I think, to be honest, yeah. He seemed a little bit more erratic against
Rosset. There were more unforced errors. But very, very powerful from the baseline, you
know, just consistently accurate on the passing shots. His serving was of pretty high
quality, as well. It was important that I maintained my levels because it wasn't easy to
break him. I felt like I wasn't giving too many opportunities away on my serve. Serving
first in the third set helped me. I was definitely very pleased to take my first match
point and get the job done.

Q. He's probably one of the better among the much lower-ranked players that you've
played over the last year or so. He looked very talented. 

TIM HENMAN: Definitely. It's something that I've said at times, I want to concentrate
on what I'm doing and not worry too much about my opponents. I felt like at times there
didn't seem to be a great deal of pressure on him. The more I looked over, the more
Argentinian players I saw coming to watch. Obviously, they've got a lot of players coming
through: Zabaleta, Squillari, Puerta, him, Gumy. There's a lot of them around. A strong
nation. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT