TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 15, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIKI SINGH: Questions for Tim. 

Q. That must be very disappointing, having got back so well from 5-3 to 5-All? I bet
you, like the rest of us, thought you were probably going to get it?

TIM HENMAN: I'd liked to have hoped that I was going to get it. You're definitely not
going to take anything for granted. It was a big struggle. You know, I was just trying --
I gave myself another chance getting back on level terms. You know, as you say, I just
wanted desperately to get through that match so I could give myself another match tomorrow
and hopefully improve on my game.

Q. Did you rush a bit in that last game of the match?

TIM HENMAN: I made a good start. I think I won the first point, good serve-and-volley
point. Perhaps I rushed a little bit. As you say, I think it was more to do with a
struggle with my game. I was competing as hard as I could, trying to give away as little
as possible. But, no, it was frustrating to get back into the match at 5-All and have a
little off momentum with me. He was obviously feeling the pressure of having to serve for
the match. You know, I broke back. But, yeah, it "a struggle" is the best way to
describe the whole match.

Q. How critical do you think those couple of breakpoints you had very early on in the
match were?

TIM HENMAN: You never know. I felt like coming into the match, I'd been hitting the
ball well. Something that I was doing well in Scottsdale was stamping my authority on the
match early. I was getting some opportunities and taking them. But as you say, if you can
get one of those chances early on, it definitely gets the -- settles you down quickly,
gets the momentum with you, puts him on the back foot. On one he hit a good first serve,
on the other I tried to be aggressive on, missed the approach shot. You know, those are
the ones you want to take. Once he's serving first, he's up a game, hits a couple of big
forehands, all of a sudden he's serving for the set, puts me on the back foot.

Q. You got into it well again in the second. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I was down 2-Love. My attacking game, the chipping and charging,
wasn't really working. I had to change something. I was much more patient from then on. I
had to just cut out the unforced errors, and to a certain extent, try and beat him at his
own game. Yeah, definitely was able to turn that around. I think in the third set he
probably played more aggressively and took a few more risks. 

Q. He runs everything down. Is it that he sort of makes you play one more shot each
time?

TIM HENMAN: He's a great athlete. He's very quick around the court. I think in the
other matches that we've played, I've probably been helped out, that it was probably a
little bit quicker. As you say, yeah, he runs down a lot of balls, he's very dangerous
when he's counterpunching. That is what he likes to do. I think at times he played with a
little bit more margin for error, played a little bit more topspin, generally tried to
keep me back as much as possible. 

Q. It didn't appear to be, but was the heat a problem in any way?

TIM HENMAN: No, I don't think so. Getting pretty hot out there. 

Q. Well into the 90s. 

TIM HENMAN: Hottest I've played here. It's a dry heat, so it's much more comfortable
than if it's high humidity. 

Q. You had a physically demanding week last week. Does that take its toll?

TIM HENMAN: Not really. I think if this was my third or fourth week in a row, then
maybe. No, I think five matches last week, all pretty straightforward two-set matches. No,
I felt very fresh out there. 

Q. What will you do now between now and Key Biscayne?

TIM HENMAN: I'll stay here and practice. I wouldn't want to get to Miami sort of too
early and then be practicing and practicing. I'll probably have a few days off and then
start practicing, go to Miami early next week. 

Q. Are the conditions fiercely different there?

TIM HENMAN: I don't think so. I mean, the ball probably doesn't fly through the air
quite as easily as it does here. But, again, it can be pretty hot there. I think, if
anything, it's much more windy, much breezier there. That's something you've got to get
used to. 

Q. That's putting it mildly. 

TIM HENMAN: It can be very difficult.

Q. Is it true that you're not playing Dusseldorf?

TIM HENMAN: Not this year.

Q. Why not?

TIM HENMAN: I played it last year. It was a very good tournament, but for me personally
I prefer to spend the week before a Grand Slam in that city practicing. I think it was
definitely the right decision to try it last year, you know, see how I felt it was for me.
My personal approach is to be in the city the week before. That's my reason for not
playing. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT