TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 14, 2000
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Not a bad afternoon's work in hot weather?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, definitely a good one to get through. He's never an easy kind to play
against. Unpredictable at the best of times. No, in the circumstances, having made the
final in Rotterdam, having lost first round in London, it was a similar scenario. And I
got through this time. 

Q. You said after Scottsdale that that was in the back of your mind. Presumably was
that still in the back of your mind when you went out on court?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I think I wasn't going to dwell on it once I was out there, but I was
obviously aware of the situation. You know, in Rotterdam, I was playing great. I did all
the same things. I practiced hard. I played my doubles on Monday in London, practiced hard
on Tuesday, went out and didn't play well on Wednesday. There's a slight question mark:
Should I be doing the same thing? You know, my opinion was that I should definitely
continue the way I'd been working. So this time it worked. 

Q. Three straight wins over him must have given you confidence?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I knew the way he liked to play. One of the things I would say is
that you've got to just try to make him play as many balls as you can, especially on the
passing shots. You know, at 5-All, hits a great serve, I put it back and he's got an easy
volley. Those are the types of shots that he can be unpredictable on. He missed it, which
was a big bonus for me, but you take everything you can get.

Q. Seemed to go off the board a bit in the second set. 

TIM HENMAN: I think the first set was pretty key. If he would have won it, I'm sure he
would have grown in confidence. I was able to get my nose in front, get that under my
belt. If anything, my game picked up. As you say, his spirit sort of went down a little
bit again. I wasn't going to start complaining about that.

Q. I think from about 3-4 in the first set, you took six of the next seven games. 

TIM HENMAN: That's right. 

Q. Established yourself. 

TIM HENMAN: Got a bit of momentum going. Early on, I'd been putting him under pressure
in some of the service games. I had Love-30 in the first game, 15-30 I think a couple of
times after that. I had to stick at it, and I did that. 

Q. You hear a lot about the serve-and-volley being something --?

TIM HENMAN: -- Extinct? 

Q. Yes. You are a serve and volleyer. Can anybody make it on the tour today playing
exclusively serve-and-volley tennis?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, most definitely. I think there's some proven examples. But having
said that, I think with the state of the average surface and the average ball, I think
it's getting harder because, no question that the game has been slowed down. I think
whatever style of play you're going to play, if you're going to do it at this level,
you're going to have to do it well. There aren't too many serve-and-volleyers around, but
it's the way I've always played, it's the way I'll always continue to play.

Q. Is it harder on the body to be a serve-and-volleyer?

TIM HENMAN: Yes and no. If you're serving well, hopefully you're going to keep the
points short. If you're playing the good returners, there's a lot of quick, explosive
movement, lunging. You get used to it. 

Q. What about Grosjean next up. 

TIM HENMAN: I didn't know that Grosjean had won. 

Q. He did. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, again he's another awkward player. We had a really close match in
Melbourne. We had a close match at Wimbledon. I'd expect the same. 

Q. What do you think of the new stadium, how the courts are playing?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it's a great facility. It was a nice facility before, but I think the
size of the tournament had outgrown the stadium there. You know, we can't ask for more.
The players are almost spoiled, I think, with the facilities we've got, the practice
courts, the match courts, the stadium. I think it's pretty much as good as it gets. 

Q. In England I understand you're just mobbed. Is it a relief to be in the United
States where you can walk around?

TIM HENMAN: At times. I think obviously the attention and the spotlight is greatest
around Wimbledon and that month with Queen's and then the tournament itself. Having said,
that I've always enjoyed it. I've thrived in those conditions. I played a lot of my best
tennis at Wimbledon. You know, if I had a choice, I'd play every match at home. Having
said that, after Wimbledon, when you've been in that environment for a month, four or five
weeks, when it is so intense, yeah, no question, it's nice to get away from it. We follow
up with the tournaments in the States. It's always a little calmer, a little more relaxed
for me. I can get on with my practice and my matches without quite the same attention. I
wouldn't say I'd complain either way. 

Q. Is it really like you're almost like the fifth Beatle?

TIM HENMAN: I don't think it's quite that bad, no (laughter). It can get a little bit
hectic at times. To a certain extent, I think I stay a little bit away from it, as much as
I can. Yeah, that can be difficult if you're playing well. 

Q. Are you going to play LA?

TIM HENMAN: I'm not sure. The schedule is slightly different. We're going to be playing
Davis Cup after Wimbledon. There's a few extra weeks to take into consideration. Having
said that, the Olympics after the US Open, it's going to be pretty busy. I think that
might be time to take a rest. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT