DAVIS CUP - USA vs GREAT BRITAIN
April 4, 1999
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tim, you said it was a questionable call in your interview, how did it look? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think it was in.  I was the one that said it changed on a questionable call, but 6-4, 4-3 for him, 30-All is still setup for that position, but it just goes to show how something so small can change a match.  I hit a couple of good shots after that and suddenly 4-All and I'm back in there.  So, no, I was pleased that once I got an opportunity I took it, and I think it's just the whole nature of the match, the circumstances, the atmosphere out there, that's what you put in all the hours of practice to get in situations like that, and come through.  And it's an unbelievable feeling. 
 

Q.  Have you ever experienced anything like those last few games and the crowd and everything?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, it's very tough to sort of gauge. When I played the winning set at Wimbledon, that was obviously something very special.  But when you're representing your country and everybody is -- there's sort of two of us, your country and myself out there, and I think that's when the  supporters let loose. 
 

Q.  You looked tired, in fact it was a deception, because you kept coming back with winners.
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it was a great match.  That's the best way to describe it.  The standard of tennis was probably getting better and better as things went on.  It's another three, three and a half hour match, and that's been the nature of the weekend.  So to come through this one is a great feeling.  I think it gives -- should give Greg a lot of confidence. 
 

Q.  Has there ever been a time in your career when you've overruled on a point, when the point has been called against you, you've seen it good, and you've given it the other way?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think there are situations, but I think when you're playing a match of that nature, and when things are so close, you have to take what comes your way, and I'm sure there were questionable calls that went against me in the match, from Todd's point of view, it's unfortunate it was on a relatively big point.  I think it's one of my best matches. 
 

Q.  Did you see Greg?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I did, I wished him all the luck in the world.  And I think if I wouldn't have won, I would say go out there and let it happen, don't make it happen.  There is a time when you can perhaps try and try too hard, and everybody  knows he's going to give a hundred percent, he's got to let his game and his experience come through. 
 

Q.  Did you say that to him or you would have?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Not exactly all those words, but I just said good luck, let it happen. 
 

Q.  You played more than ten hours in three days, how much has been the crowd getting you through that?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's definitely my toughest weekend in tennis, that's for sure.  But the atmosphere is set from the moment we walk on the court, and I think it's an appropriate song, and my feeling was that I've got to go out there and entertain, that's it. 
 

Q.  How does it compare to a Wimbledon crowd?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's different, isn't it, when you're playing indoors the noise level.  You need someone out there with whatever the instrument that measures noise, because there were times in the tiebreak when it's reaching unbelievable levels, and at 4-love up, I fought up from the tiebreak, but I still know it's not over, and I still have to play some tough points, and I came up with a lot of good serves at the right time.  I think coming into this match there was -- I think there was a question mark about my second serve, because it definitely let me down on Friday.  But my second serve was great today. 
 

Q.  There were a few very, very minor lobs, as well? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think Todd was into that very well. He's got a long reach, but sometimes big guys don't like to move backwards as much as they like to move forward.  I think a couple of really important -- every point was important today. 
 

Q.  Is that running forehand --
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's a big point, 3-Love, but I hit a good return, hit a volley in the corner, and, yes, it's a big shot at the right time, and that's what you want.  I think you look at my first serve, and I think it's been inconsistent. And you guys will probably look on the negative side that my serve has been inconsistent, I look when I put it right and when I'm serving consistently, how good am I going to be then? That's what I find positive.  It's frustrating at times, because you want to be making the first serves, you don't want to be serving in the third set, and miss your first seven serves, and that's what I did, but you keep fighting, and if I can come through a match like that, and have the statistics here, Todd served 67 percent, I served 49, that's something I have to work on. 
 

Q.  It might be a minor point, but how important has the fact that they moved the coaches?  David is right on the line where you can see him, where you know where he is?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I've spoken to him sort of in between matches, but once you're out there, you've got to do it for yourself, and I know the things to think of, but I think after  the first day we realized that we were a little bit outnumbered on the side of the court, the Americans had a long line of people, and I think the -- those guys can influence the crowd a bit, especially when you're down, the moment the crowd can get a little bit quiet, and when those guys are so positive, so upbeat, standing on their feet, I think that brings a positive back to the situation. 
 

Q.  How important do you think it has been for British tennis the fact that you (inaudible) made a substantial showing of it?
 
TIM HENMAN:  At the level we play at now, it's not about taking partners, it's about winning and losing, and I'm sure a lot of people have had a really amazing weekend watching some of the tennis, but from a playing point of view it's all about winning, we're not -- if we lose it's been a wasted weekend, and I think that's the harsh reality of it. 
 

Q.  This sort of sustained quality of tennis at the end of the match, must have given you enormous satisfaction?
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's the thing, you look back, and I look back at both matches, all three matches, including the doubles, and I take away a huge amount, but we want to win, it's as simple as that.  And for a long time, I think for a long time it's been talked about that we were uninvolved, but that's not the way we look at it. 
 

Q.  On Friday you said that this was an experience unlike  any other, is there anything, any one key point you took from that match that's enabled you to play the last two days?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think the whole situation.  Once you realize you're in a new experience, then you accept it and you get on with it, and I think the first few games I realized against Courier that it was -- the whole situation was different.  But I got used to it.  I played a great match against him.  If I could have done a few things better, I probably would have won, but hence I was able to approach the doubles and today's singles a little bit differently.  I was prepared for the atmosphere.  I was prepared for the intensity, and we won the doubles and now I won the singles today. 
 

Q.  Is there any way you can actually use a two game deficit to act in your favor?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, a little bit.  I think the doubles is obviously what it hinges on.  If you're three-nil you're out of it.  But they were very confident, and we fought deep and came through that.  And once you're 2-1, especially coming from 2-love down, the pressure goes on their shoulders more.  And I felt that he's a great player, full stop, but I think he's a very good front runner, and once I was able to get back to settle, I think it changed the nature of the match, and my level is rising. 
 

Q.  Tim, having experienced the intensity out there, the atmosphere, is it harder to understand why Pete wouldn't want  to be a part of that?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think a little bit, yeah.  I think you look at all the guys playing, the guys supporting, then I think it's great to be part of it.  But at the end of the day it's his decision.  If he doesn't want to be part of it, if anything, it's his loss. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT