THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 21, 1999
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GREG SHARKO:  First question for Tim.  
 

Q.  Did you feel a bathroom break at that point of the match might be a bit excessive?
 
TIM HENMAN: Yeah.  I have no problem, when you need to go, you've got to go.  But I think it disrupted the rhythm from my point of view.  I felt like I'd done pretty well to turn things around.  I think, yeah, that upset the momentum. 
 

Q.  Do you know why it took him so long?
 
TIM HENMAN:  There isn't a bathroom very near, but I can't think that it takes that long. 
 

Q.  Only a hundred yards from the locker room. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Exactly. 
 

Q.  Seemed to be a bit of other gamesmanship going around, too, delays. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I felt like, yeah, it was a pretty  -- a match that didn't have much rhythm from the tennis point of view and also in between points, in between games, it was pretty static.  It was tough to find your rhythm.  It's also tough with the conditions.  It's not easy to play good tennis out there. 
 

Q.  How bad was that wind from one end to the other?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It is mainly coming from one end, but it's going all over the place.  But, you know, that's what you expect.  It's been the same here for a number of years.  It will be the same in the future.  I dealt with it well last year.  Today with his style of play and those conditions, I didn't perhaps adjust to it as well as I could have done. 
 

Q.  Is the bathroom break rule a rule that players abuse?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, I don't think.  It's his serve next game.  From that point of view, if he takes nine or ten minutes, whatever you say it was, it's probably not the easiest game for him coming up.  But having said that, I've got to be able to deal with it.  I think it's fair to say it did upset my rhythm.  
 

Q.  Golmard, Kiefer, Haas, Safin, so much talent out there.  Is anybody at the top safe?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, I think, you know, the first three months of this year, there has been a little bit of a change.  You know, I want to make sure I'm one of them.  I've got to  -- you know, in these tournaments, in the Slams, I've got to go, you know, keep winning.  I had an opportunity last week in Indian Wells and didn't quite take it.  You know, I've got to take my opportunities in these types of events. 
 

Q.  You were much more aggressive in the second set, looked to us. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.  I felt like at times the worse I played, the more I mixed it up, probably the harder he found it.  I found when I was playing to a certain type of game, a certain type of rhythm, that probably suited him.  In the second set, once I was a break down, I stayed back a little bit more and looped a few, then came in, you know, went a little more unexpectedly.  That seemed to work.  But you've got to be able to keep that going once you've got your chance, and I didn't do that. 
 

Q.  Is it some consolation to have more rest for Davis Cup now?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's not really what I would have liked, no.  I would have liked to have been here right until Saturday.  I can go home and have a few days off and start getting prepared.  But, no, I wanted to do well here first and foremost. 
 

Q.  You talked about the match in Australia briefly, saying it was one of your worst.  Do you regard this as a bad performance?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Not exactly, no.  I think you guys sort of take into account the way he looks.  He's an unorthodox guy.  But he's very, very effective.  He's not 30 in the world or whatever for nothing.  He won Dubai this year.  But, no, I'm the first to admit I find it difficult to play that type of guy.  You never quite know what to expect.  Having said that, he's hitting a lot of good shots. 
 

Q.  Do you get a sense that there really is very little separating most of the Top 20 or 30 players out there?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's more than that.  I think in the men's, the depth is a lot greater than that.  The standards are high, but the standards are very, very even.  So if you're not a hundred percent on your game, you've got a good chance of losing.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT