ATP Tour World Championship
November 28, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. So close. Came up with some fantastic stuff at the end, didn't he?

TIM HENMAN: That's right. I think in the latter part of the third set, he definitely
raised his game in those games that he broke me at 3-2 and at the end. He came up with
some great shots. I think you've got to give him credit for that.

Q. You described getting here as being mental torture. Was it similar today?

TIM HENMAN: No, it's not. When you're out there, it's a match, and a lot of it you're
sort of playing by instincts. You don't have so much time to think about it. No. I think
the more afterwards you have time to think about it, the more the disappointment sinks in.

Q. Was that last set as intense as anything you've played?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I mean, I think it was a lot of good quality tennis. As the match
went on, the standard got better and better. In a lot of those service games throughout
the third, there were opportunities for both of us. It was a question of who could take
them, who could hit the right shots at the right time.

Q. Apart from possibly a few refinements, if you were playing that match again, would
you follow the same tactics?

TIM HENMAN: Well, I think my tactics were right. I think my execution at times,
especially in the first set, wasn't as good as it could have been. I think, again, my
serving has not really been good enough throughout the week. There have been times when I
think today, second and third set, it definitely improved. It's got to be higher all
around.

Q. You seemed to be struggling a little bit in the first set just to get into your
rhythm.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think that is sometimes dictated by your serve. I think I wasn't
making a great deal of first serves. I was having to win a lot of points from the baseline
and moving forward. That's probably not the way that I want to be doing it.

Q. On his first service game of the second set, you clearly seemed to have set yourself
right, really went for the service game, come-what-may.

TIM HENMAN: I think that was obviously a turning point. He played some good tennis at
the end of the first set. He had a couple of chances on my serve in the first game. I
think if he'd have gotten an early break, that would have been very difficult; he might
have been able to run away with things. As you say, second game, I was a little bit more
aggressive. I went for a little bit more. That's what paid off. Likewise, in the first
game of the third, I think again I played really aggressively. Those were the times we
broke. Having said that, I don't think I was cautious when I didn't break. I think he then
came up with some better shots.

Q. Is it possible that the slow start was a bit of a legacy from the previous day?

TIM HENMAN: Not really, I don't think. I think the important thing was yesterday to go
and practice afterwards. We hit for about another half an hour, sort of got back to where
I was beforehand. I think that made a big difference. I went out there with a lot of
confidence.

Q. Apart from the prize money, what else will you take away from these championships?

TIM HENMAN: Obviously it's boosted my ranking another couple of spots. It's a good
ending to the year, but a disappointing end to the year. Having said that, I'm already
very excited about next year. I feel like I've got lots of things to improve on over the
Christmas period. I think if I continue the progress I've made in the last five, six
months, then, you know, quarterfinals of a Slam is not what I'm going to be looking for;
I'm going to be getting to the finals and winning them.

Q. I suppose that's the thing, now you're going to a new year, starting off with your
highest ranking, No. 7. You're well into the Top 10. That must be a great platform?

TIM HENMAN: It is. You look back over the year, there have been some amazing lows and
some amazing highs. I think to finish No. 7 is a good year. Then when you look at it in a
little bit more detail, you realize the short periods that I've played good tennis; it's
basically been half the year. So if I can make No. 7 in half a year, if I play a full
year, then I think there's obviously a lot to improve on.

Q. Although the surface and everything, atmosphere, is totally different between the
Wimbledon semifinal and this semifinal, what will you take away from each of them?

TIM HENMAN: A loss. Pretty similar matches, in fact. Against Sampras at Wimbledon, I
struggled early on, and likewise today, I didn't play my best tennis to begin with. I
really, really hung in there, played much, much better in the second, and, as the match
went on, it got closer and closer. Against Sampras at 5-6 in the third, he hit three great
shots in a row to break me. I think you look at some of the shots Moya hit to break me on
both occasions; he did exactly that.

Q. When was the last time anyone lobbed as dramatically as he did?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, he hit some great lobs. You know, the Spanish guys have got such
variation on their groundstrokes. I think he is the one obviously that has just that
little bit more that stands out. He's got a deceptive serve, a very good athlete for a
pretty big guy. His forehand is very difficult to read.

Q. You have played a lot of tennis in the last six months because you've been doing so
well. How tired do you feel now?

TIM HENMAN: I feel tired after today's match. I'm definitely looking forward to having
some weeks off. It has been really intense, short of jam-packed last six months. I've
really enjoyed it. I'll be looking forward to getting back and working on things in
December.

Q. Given that you stay fit, obviously, how many tournaments do you think you'll play
next year?

TIM HENMAN: I probably won't play quite as many. 23, 24 maybe, all going well. You have
to see how things go, hopefully stay healthy. If I play as consistently as I have, there's
no need to play quite as many events as I have this year. Perhaps I might be a little bit
fresher.

Q. How high in a percentage would you rate this semifinal against the Wimbledon
semifinal?

TIM HENMAN: I think they are very similar. I think I played better against Sampras. But
having said that, I definitely couldn't have given more on either occasion.

Q. In an ideal world, you talked about maybe playing a bit less, being a bit fresher.
Would you have liked to have been a bit fresher coming into this week?

TIM HENMAN: It's difficult to say. I think the last -- in sort of over six months, it
probably does take its toll. But perhaps if I played a few less tournaments, it may do it.
It's difficult to say. I wouldn't say coming into here I was tired. I felt really
motivated, a hundred percent ready to go. I think, if anything, the sort of pressure and
the tension of the matches in the round-robin take their toll. Today, to play another two
and a quarter hours, you know, is tough.

Q. Is it more difficult to get a rhythm, given this format, round-robin, than it would
be in a week's normal tournament? 

TIM HENMAN: Not really. I quite enjoy the round-robin. It's not what we're used to.
It's something different. In a field with the top eight players, you're going to have
really tough matches. Both sides to the coin. I can understand if people don't really
enjoy it so much. But for me personally, I think it's a good format.

Q. Do you feel comfortable and at home now as part of this group, top eight, ten
players?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, definitely. I think in the last six months - I seem like I'm
repeating myself - but it's the last six months when so much has happened. I feel like
I've really established myself in the Top 10. The feeling is inside me, that's not good
enough now. I've got to go to the next level. I'm going to be pretty close to the Top 5,
hopefully, in the not-too-distant future. If I can play well in the Slams, then I think
I've got to set my sights to the very, very top.

Q. You've only been off court half an hour, you're obviously clearly disappointed. When
you lost to Sampras, you were really choked. Does this compare to that?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, definitely. It's pretty much the same feeling. Doesn't get any more
enjoyable. Doesn't get any easier having lost a match like this. It's history now. I've
got to move on from here.

Q. Next year, would you rate winning a Grand Slam perhaps higher than moving up in the
ranking?

TIM HENMAN: Well, if you win a Grand Slam, you're not going to go down in the rankings.
Yeah, I mean, if you can win a Grand Slam, I think that's the ultimate in this game. I
keep taking steps in the right direction. February and March, perhaps I was standing still
or looking like I might fall backwards. I can't complain with the progress that I've made.

Q. Because you didn't do as well as you wanted to at the Australian and in February and
March, that means in a way you've got an extra incentive to do well this year?

TIM HENMAN: Definitely. I have Sydney; I played pretty well in Sydney. I have Key
Biscayne. Then I have Wimbledon. Basically the first six months is a great opportunity for
me. It's a month away -- a little over a month before we start playing in Doha and then
Australia. But I feel very ready to continue the improvement, continue the rise.

Q. Looking at the guys in the Top 10 now, having sort of come through stage by stage,
aiming for the Top 10, looking at the guys who are there, looking at the guys who are sort
of your immediate competitors in that Top 10 now, how do you evaluate them?

TIM HENMAN: I think it's fair to say at the moment on these types of surfaces, Sampras
still stands out. I think I've beaten virtually everybody else. Hopefully I can beat him
next year. But, no, knowing that I've beaten them, there's no reason why I can't go right
to the very top. That's definitely my aim. Whether it happens next year or the year after,
that's what I want.

Q. In the last 12 months, what are the aspects of your game that have most improved?
How do you assess the way you are now from 12 months ago?

TIM HENMAN: Hopefully everything's improved. But still, the serving, I think that has
probably made the biggest improvement. But I still think it can make an even bigger
improvement if you're comparing it to everything else. I think perhaps the best I've
served was in Basel. Perhaps the levels this week have not been as good as that. So if I
can serve at those types of levels on a regular basis, that makes the rest of your game a
lot easier. That is one of my immediate goals. I think Greg is a good example of that. You
know, he makes life so easy with his serve. He's a good example.

Q. After playing Australia and the few indoor tournaments, will you be playing a full
clay court season?

TIM HENMAN: Yes, starting in Barcelona.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT