ATP Tour World Championship
November 27, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Where does that rank in your list of all-time great or not-so-great performances?

TIM HENMAN: I think it's irrelevant where that ranks. It was a disappointing
performance. A lot of attention is being paid to the rivalry. It was disappointing the way
the match unfolded. But having said that, I'm obviously through to the semifinals, so I
need to pick up my performance tomorrow. I won't dwell on that one too long.

Q. Did it have anything to do that you were already qualified as No. 1 in your group,
the way you played?

TIM HENMAN: I think so, yeah. I think it's a different sort of match. I know I'm
already through to the next stage. Having said that, there is a rivalry between me and
Greg. I think we both wanted to win. On the day, my performance wasn't good enough. Having
said that, he did play very well. 

Q. Do you feel a little deflated by it?

TIM HENMAN: By it?

Q. By that match out there.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it's disappointing, sure. I don't like to lose. I know that tomorrow
is a lot more important for me.

Q. Not to dwell on it, but was it the same sort of experience as you had when you
played Todd in Stockholm?

TIM HENMAN: I suppose you could compare the two. I knew I'm through to the semifinals.
It's my goal achieved for the round-robin. In some respects, there wasn't so much the
game. But still my pride of performance should take care of that. That was disappointing.
Having said that, I think come tomorrow, it's kind of like the situation when I played as
I did against Todd, and my next match was against Rios. I think the two were very, very
different. I'd expect to see that tomorrow.

Q. In addition to all that, do you think you probably took more out of yourself
mentally yesterday?

TIM HENMAN: I think yesterday was a really tough match, both physically and mentally.
There was a sense of excitement, a sense of relief that I was through to the semis. Having
said that, Greg played really well. He's kept his hopes alive. He'll just have to wait and
see what happens in the next match.

Q. Do you like the round-robin or do you perform a straight knock-out format?

TIM HENMAN: I like round-robin. We play knock-out the rest of the year. It makes a
change. It's a little bit different. I think the players like that.

Q. Do you get sort of trapped, when the match was going away from you, where you think,
"I don't want to do anything that will sort of damage my prospects tomorrow, but I
want to win today's match"? Are you struggling with those two emotions?

TIM HENMAN: I think a little bit. Obviously, started off badly. As the match was going
away, for me to try and get back and win that match is going to be difficult, for
starters, but then I think it would take a lot out of me. We'll just have to see what
happens tomorrow.

Q. There's been question about the round-robin format. You answered your feeling on
that. What about the fact that there's so many players getting injured, people pulling
out, do you think that makes the tournament a little bit suspect?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I've heard that. I think there's been a few articles written in the
press today. I think looking at it from a player's point of view, this is the World
Championships, one of the biggest events we have all year, what we play all year to
qualify for. You're not going to have Rios fly from Santiago to Hannover, and then pull
out because he's not interested. I think if that's what people are thinking, they're on a
different planet. Likewise with Agassi, he came here to play and was very unfortunate to
get injured. Just because that's happened, it is unfortunate for the tournament, because a
lot of people would like to see those types of players playing. At the end of a long year,
I'm afraid it happens.

Q. Do you have any thoughts now about how the terrible start came about, that rash of
double-faults, which is not typical of you?

TIM HENMAN: I haven't served a lot of double-faults this week. Maybe I was going for a
little bit too much. You know, probably go out on the practice court a little bit later
and hit some balls, get some rhythm back in my serve. Still go into tomorrow's match with
Moya with a lot of confidence.

Q. Is that the way you purge something like this, go out and have another hit?

TIM HENMAN: I think so. I'm the first to admit I played badly, and I'm disappointed by
that. I think a lot of people wanted to see us having a tight and hard-fought match. You
know, it wasn't quite the case today. I'm not going to worry too much about that. I think
it's more important now to start thinking about my next match.

Q. Was it ever realistic for the general public to suppose that would happen anyway?

TIM HENMAN: Say that again.

Q. Was it realistic that this match would ever have been tight, given the
circumstances?

TIM HENMAN: I think obviously Greg has a lot to play for. I think his performance
showed that. Having said that, I think I'm a little bit disappointed with the way I
played. It was another match to improve my ranking. I missed that opportunity. Having said
that, I can't complain with the way I've played in my other two, and I'm through to the
semis. That is the main purpose. But, yeah, I think it would be fair to say I'd like to
play, you know, perhaps when it's in a slightly different situation.

Q. Do you prefer Moya as opposed to Kafelnikov?

TIM HENMAN: Perhaps, yeah. I think I've had some tough matches against Kafelnikov. My
record is better against Moya. He's playing really well at the moment. It's not going to
be easy.

Q. What were you feeling when the crowd started to show their disappointment, as well?

TIM HENMAN: Quite right to. I think I was playing badly. I think sometimes I was
thinking to myself perhaps they've seen me play in the last couple of days, then I'm
missing shots that I definitely shouldn't have done. Sometimes from a personal point of
view, it's disappointing when you miss those, when you're trying as hard as you can. It
would be a bit better if you weren't really focused. Some of those shots I missed were a
little bit unexplainable.

Q. Which tournaments will you play before the Australian Open?

TIM HENMAN: I play in Doha, it is my first tournament next year, and then I'm going to
play the exhibition in Melbourne. Not Sydney this year.

Q. What will be the game plan against Moya?

TIM HENMAN: It's going to be very similar as it was against Corretja. He's going to be
trying to keep me on the baseline as much as possible. I'm going to be getting to the net
when I get the opportunity. I definitely need to serve a lot more consistently than I did
today.

Q. The last two wins have been on a hard court, Lipton and Sydney. This is, again, a
quick-ish court.

TIM HENMAN: I think it suits me very well. I do feel confident with his style of play
matching up against mine. Having said that, I think I probably just boosted his confidence
a little bit.

Q. Is either way to get a disappointing performance like that out of your system before
you have --

TIM HENMAN: It's never good to play the way I did today. But having said that, I think
you're right, in that tomorrow, not that I'll need any motivation in the semifinals of the
World Championships, but sure, I'll be perhaps just an extra bit fired up to come out and
really start performing again.

Q. Do you think you give Rusedski a little bit more help to go to the semifinal?

TIM HENMAN: He helped himself. I said to him after the match, I said, "Well
played. I hope Costa can do you a favor." I can talk about my performance, and I
didn't play particularly well. But he did play really good tennis.

Q. Did you talk before the match about the chances?

TIM HENMAN: No. I think he said it, and I think it's fair to say if he doesn't get
injured in Wimbledon time, he would have been one of the eight playing every match here.

Q. What would be the perfect scenario for the two of you to play each other,
surface-wise, tournament-wise?

TIM HENMAN: Wimbledon final (laughter). I think we'd both settle for that. I think with
the way our styles of play are, very fast indoor court, it's never going to be a
particularly exciting match because we can both serve pretty well. That doesn't make the
rallies too long. If we ever got the chance to play on a slow hard court, I think that
would be a good match-up.

Q. All five have been on pretty quick indoor courts?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that's right. Having said that, we've had a couple good ones in the
Nationals. But that was such a long time ago. We'll just have to wait and see the next
time we play, and I hope from my point of view it's a better match.

Q. How much does it count for you that Agassi and Rios going home before the end of the
group?

TIM HENMAN: I don't think it's really affected me because I played Rios on the first
day, then I played Corretja. I beat one of them. I didn't play the other. I don't think it
had an influence on me. Didn't affect my tournament, if you like.

Q. How are your relations with Rusedski? Is it good? 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it's good. There was definitely a spell earlier on in the year when
we weren't getting on particularly well. I think at times it was a little bit blown out of
proportion in the press. But now, we do. We definitely get on better. We have a pretty
good time in Davis Cup. We practice a lot in London when we're there. I think it's a lot
better.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT