ATP Tour World Championship
November 26, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How does it feel, semifinals? 
 
 TIM HENMAN: I was a little bit concerned actually when I came off the court to make
sure I had actually got through to the semis. But, no, it was a tough match, lots of
changes in momentum. The first set was very, very intense. There weren't hardly any
opportunities on each other's serves. Came down to the tiebreak. But I maintained my
aggression all the time and was very positive. But for a set and a half, I think that's
the best I've faced with regards to passing shots. I thought I was coming in on some
good-length approach shots, heavy balls, and a lot of the time he was hitting it by me. I
think I had to be stubborn. I had to persevere with my tactic and believe in that. That's
definitely the way it unfolded. 
 
Q. There's a bit more to him than just a clay court baseliner, isn't there? 
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah. He says nowadays when people say he's a clay court player, he just
laughs. I think quite rightly, too. He can compete on any surface. Today, the way he's
hitting the ball from the baseline, it's very difficult to deal with. He's hitting the
ball very heavy, lots of topspin, it's kicking up high. Although I made quite a lot of
unforced errors, I knew that that was going to happen if I was going to take risks and
keep moving forward. You know, I was very pleased to come through with the win. 
 
Q. In a way, it was the risk taking you took that kept him under pressure, which was
probably the key to the whole match.
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think so, yeah. The first set was crucial. I think that was probably the
best tennis of the match. Having said that, the second set was a little bit more
inconsistent. I was disappointed once I got my opportunity at 3-1 not to consolidate that
break of serve. If anything, you know, I got a little bit nervous at the end of the second
set. I had Love-30 at 5-6. Didn't hit two of the most impressive returns of the match. You
know, he played a good tiebreak, a couple of good passing shots. The first few games of
the third set were really positive for me. I took the initiative on a couple of big
points, got up two breaks, wasn't going to let that slip. 
 
Q. Did you lose a bit of the aggression after 6-5, Love-30?
 
 TIM HENMAN: No, not really. I was trying to do the right thing, but I don't think my
legs were really helping me, and the court, the court seemed to get very sticky out there.
I think that happens. You get a bit nervous. Your feet don't move quite as well as you'd
hope they do. Missed a couple of bad shots. 
 
Q. Such a tense match you had, sharing the two tiebreaks. When you got ahead in the
third set, 4-Love, do you feel then you were on top of him or do you still you have to
keep going?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, you're definitely on top of him. The match is there for the taking.
You look at the nature of the service games in the whole match up until then, there were
very few really quick, quick service games. You have to concentrate on each and every
point. Serving at 4-1, if I momentarily slip up, it's only one break, and that definitely
puts the pressure back on me. I was really pleased to keep my concentration, keep my focus
and finish the job off.  
 
Q. Seemed your plan was to take the game to him, wasn't it?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Definitely. If we stand out there and rally from the baseline, there's only
one winner. You know, early on, it took me again a little bit of time to find my rhythm.
But definitely towards the end of the match, I was being very aggressive. It's those types
of tactics that paid off. 
 
Q. Well, the two things we know is that you won your group, and Pete Sampras is the
world No. 1 for the sixth time in a row, Marcelo has pulled out. It's been a strange week
in many ways, hasn't it?
 
 TIM HENMAN: It has. It just goes to show that tennis throughout the year is a
physically a very, very demanding sport, and schedule that we have. It is vital that you -
talking personally - stay healthy. It's obviously not the easiest thing to do. You've got
to be strong in a lot of areas. You have to have a strong game, you have to be strong
between the ears, and you have to be strong physically. 
 
Q. You seem subdued now. Has this taken a lot out of you mentally as well as
physically?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Sure, I played two and a half hours. Playing someone like him, you do your
fair share of mileage. Definitely a little bit tired, but very satisfied making it through
to the semis. There's still a lot more tennis for me to play. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think definitely before Wimbledon, I was struggling full stop. In some of
the matches that I did lose or some of the opportunities I had, perhaps my concentration
wasn't quite as good as it could have been. But I think that goes with confidence. Look at
my results since Wimbledon. Barring the match against Kafelnikov perhaps in Paris, hasn't
been too many slip-ups. That's definitely a good sign for me. 
 
Q. Playing Greg tomorrow, obviously depending on how he does today, again it's a
strange situation because whatever the outcome of that match, if he were to win, you still
have Corretja to play Albert Costa, whose indoor record isn't very good even in his own
house. It's a tough one for Greg to come in, yet he has an opportunity.
 
 TIM HENMAN: That's right. Definitely takes the pressure off me. Definitely I don't like
losing any matches. You know, it's a good situation for me to be in, having already
qualified for the semifinals. But there's still a lot of tennis for the other guys to
play, and a lot to play for. Greg does still have an opportunity. I think we all envisage
him beating Costa today. Everybody knows we have a pretty healthy rivalry. As I said, I
don't like losing any matches, but I think we'd be extra keen to beat each other. 
 
Q. With it being Greg, even though you qualified and everything, does it put an extra
edge on it?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah (laughter). It does, for sure. Every time we play in the same
tournament, you know, there's attention on us both from a ranking point of view, British
ranking, that is. We're both very, very competitive. Having said that, I think we both
really look forward to the match. It's the World Championships. There's two British guys
going to go out and battle for it. I think we both look forward to that. 
 
Q. Will you be in Dusseldorf?
 
 TIM HENMAN: We're getting closer. It's not something I'm really spending a great deal
of time thinking about at the moment. I feel like there's a pretty good chance that we'll
be playing there this year. 
 
Q. It's a red-letter day for British tennis with two British players against each
other.
 
 TIM HENMAN: It is. There's a lot of positives for that. In the last couple years, I
think both Greg and I have come a long way. I think at times we both feel like we want
some others to come along and start taking the headlines away from us. Not that we don't
enjoy it, but I think there's plenty of room for that. Hopefully in the not-to-distant
future, we can get more guys coming up, coming through the ranks. 
 
Q. You will play each other twice.
 
 TIM HENMAN: We could play each other twice in three days? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yes, we could. It doesn't happen like that too often in a tournament. Who
knows what's going to happen. 
 
Q. You haven't played since Vienna. Played a few practice sets lately. How have they
been going?
 
 TIM HENMAN: We've played a lot actually. We've practiced quite a lot when we're both
back in London at Queen's. As far as I can remember, for about six sets, there hasn't been
any breaks. We played tiebreaks every time. 
 
Q. And?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think it's been very level. That's the diplomatic answer, but I think
it's the honest answer, as well. You know, the practice sets are still pretty competitive,
as well. 
 
Q. Perhaps the most emphatic moment was when you broke for a second time in the third
set.
 
 TIM HENMAN: Definitely. 
 
Q. Was there any particular joy about that lob, bearing in mind the one he hit on the
first point of that second set tiebreak?
 
 TIM HENMAN: That's right. Yeah, a couple of really big points. Having broken in the
first game of the third, then I really had to hang on to my serve at all costs. I think it
was that game that we had a really long point at game point. Eventually held on. As you
say, to get a second break is a great cushion to have. To execute a shot like that on such
an important point is satisfying, very satisfying. 
 
Q. Can you put Pete's achievement into some sort of perspective, as well?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it's tough for anyone else really to comprehend. It's a phenomenal
achievement. As I think he said before, I don't think it's one that's going to be broken
for a long, long time, if ever. I think it must be extremely satisfying for him, having
spent such a long time focusing on this goal of his to achieve it. It perhaps hasn't
materialized the way he would have expected, but I definitely don't think he'll be
complaining. 
 
Q. You've beaten two more Top-10 players this week.
 
 TIM HENMAN: I've beaten a lot of No. 2 players. If it doesn't happen this year, to beat
the top-ranked guy, it's definitely going to be a goal next year. No, for sure, my game is
still moving in the right direction. I'm still very happy with the way it's progressing. I
think '99 could be a very exciting year. 
 
Q. Our resident mathematician has you up to 8 in the world rankings already and
possibly going to 7 from here.
 
 TIM HENMAN: I hope so. There's a few more spots to go after that. As I said, in the
last six years, you look at my end-of-year ranking, it's only moved in one direction. This
is a continuation of that. That's why I say next year I think it can be even more exciting
because in reality, I've only played for six months of this year. 
 
Q. Being at 6 or 7 in the world gives you a chance to strike at the Top 5 next year,
won't it?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Definitely. I can certainly say that's the next goal. 
 
Q. Coming into here, all the talk was Pete, No. 1 ranking, who is going to play. The
obvious thing to say is that this is a tournament in its own right.
 
 TIM HENMAN: The World Championships, I think everybody's got plenty to play for. As you
say, I came in here ranked No. 9. I knew if I played well, I could continue that rise. As
you say, Pete and Rios had their private battle. But, no, I qualified for the semis, but I
still want to go further. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT