ATP Tour World Championship
November 24, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do you feel about a great victory? How do you see the match?

TIM HENMAN: I think it was mostly about my serve. In the matches that I played
previously, I've been at my most effective when I was persistent and was aggressive. Today
early on, when I came in, especially on his second serves, he passed me a lot of the time.
But I felt like I was beginning to find my feet, find my rhythm, find my range. You know,
on my first serve, I don't think I lost too many points when I made it. So my first serve
percentage wasn't amazing by any stretch of the imagination. When I was serving as hard as
I was, I think it puts him under more pressure.

Q. Do you think having got that first set, you put him down mentally as well as
physically?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. You know, he didn't -- I don't think he had any breakpoints on my
serve in the first set. You know, to play the game that I did to break him to win the set,
you know, is a big boost for me and I think for sure it knocks his confidence. You know,
likewise, to get one opportunity in the second set and take it straightaway is the way to
really put the nails in the coffin.

Q. Did you see he was straining a bit on his leg?

TIM HENMAN: It's one of those situations when things don't go your way, I think from
his point of view, the injury starts to get a little bit worse. You know, a set and a
break, the match is there for the taking. But you're not going to let your concentration
wave or wander. I finished off the job very satisfactorily.

Q. Did you go out there feeling a lot looser, more relaxed than you did in Stuttgart,
Paris, Stockholm?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, different circumstances. I realized after Stockholm that it was a big
relief to be in the World Championships. But once I got here, I was ready to perform. You
know, that's definitely what I did today. I came out here, was aggressive, and I took my
chances. So I kind of have a different attitude. There was not a lot to lose this week. I
think I had a lot to gain.

Q. You really served superbly. Have you been doing that much the last few days? 

TIM HENMAN: I felt like the conditions, not necessarily the court, but I think the ball
is a little bit heavier. In Basel, it was a heavy ball. I served very well there. In
Stockholm, I thought it was very quick. It was very light, the ball was flying around. I
found that a little bit difficult to control. But the conditions here are ideal for me. I
definitely had a lot of rhythm on my serve. That is obviously an important part for me. It
was critical in the match.

Q. Compared to your other big wins, Rafter at Wimbledon, Krajicek at Wimbledon, Agassi,
on the satisfaction level, how does this compare?

TIM HENMAN: In the World Championships, it's a big stage. Everything's big here. It's a
big stadium, big matches. To beat the No. 2 player in the world is always going to be
satisfying. I wouldn't say that my tennis was amazing or anything, but it was a very
consistent, high level. That's key, I think.

Q. That must be another encouraging thing, you were actually quite consistent to come
through so convincingly?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, straight sets. I know that there's room for improvement. You know,
this was going to be a tough match, and I came into it very positive. Even if I'd lost, I
knew I still felt that I'd have a chance of qualifying. You know, to have a win of this
nature is a great start. Definitely won't be easy matches to come.

Q. Did it help to have played here once last year so you did have a sense of the scene?

TIM HENMAN: I played him twice this year.

Q. To have played here last year.

TIM HENMAN: Here last year, okay. Definitely, I think to have a taste of it. I didn't
really feel part of it last year. I was a pretty distant alternate. You know, I came here
and I took my chance. I got a taste of the surroundings, and I felt very comfortable when
I've been practicing the last couple of days. Once I came on the match court, I was ready
and raring to go. I think that was pretty clear, pretty evident in my performance.

Q. How did it feel to walk past all those Chilean fans on the way down?

TIM HENMAN: It was boxing, wasn't it? Prince Nassim coming to the ring.

Q. You served a love game.

TIM HENMAN: I knew that the start was going to be important. I think he's a good
front-runner. In the past, in Key Biscayne, in Rome, he was the one dominating. It was
imperative to keep holding my serve. I did that in pretty good style.

Q. A glass of Champaign for Pete tonight as well?

TIM HENMAN: Maybe it helps him. By the way he played today, I think he's quite
confident of taking care of business himself.

Q. Although Marcelo did say his back was bothering him, it seemed watching him that
right until the end of that first set particularly, there was nothing in it that indicated
a mistake on either side?

TIM HENMAN: In the service games, in the first set, we both were getting good starts,
both had 15-Love, 30-Love a lot of the time. That obviously changed at 5-6. A lot of the
time I'd come in on his backhand when I was chipping and charging. At Love-30, I went to
the forehand for the first time. I don't think he was expecting that. As you say, whether
he's injured or not, I felt really confident with my own game. I felt like I had a good
chance against whoever I was playing.

Q. What did David say at the end of the match, anything in particular to you, your
coach?

TIM HENMAN: I haven't really spoken to him.

Q. You haven't? 

TIM HENMAN: No. Drug testing, quick shower and a stretch. Haven't really had the chance
to speak to him. I hope he says, "Well played."

Q. Everybody complains towards the end of the season, rightly so, of feeling tired.
When you actually get here to this environment, does it sort of lift away from you?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, definitely. The think the weekend of the final in Stockholm, I was
definitely tired, I felt flat after that match, I felt disappointed in the days after. But
then you've got to put that behind you. When you're coming into the World Championships, I
don't think any guy needs motivation. Still, when I practiced in London Thursday and
Friday, I wasn't -- you know, I still was struggling a little bit. Once you get here and
start practicing on the main court, then the adrenaline definitely starts to flow. That
makes a big difference. Once you get out on the match court, you're ready to give it a
hundred percent. So you don't need -- I don't think you need any help in that respect.

Q. Have you been especially pleased at your ability to sort of bounce back from the
lowest ebbs and come back and then produce in the next couple of weeks?

TIM HENMAN: I think, yeah, that's pretty relevant in March. I wouldn't say that's
relevant now.

Q. Like the Kafelnikov situation.

TIM HENMAN: That was disappointing to lose a match of that nature, definitely was
disappointing. Having said that, in March, you know, I could barely hit my hat. I knew
that I was still playing really well at that time. Given a bit of luck, things would
definitely start to go my way. I felt that was the case in Stockholm. So I knew coming in
here on a surface like this, I had a lot of confidence. That's just been reinforced today.

Q. A few weeks on carpet courts. This is like Stockholm, isn't it?

TIM HENMAN: No, Stockholm is a hard court. Stockholm is the same as the US Open. This
is the same court as Stuttgart.

Q. How much does the difference actually make between a carpet and hard court indoors?

TIM HENMAN: This isn't a hard court. This is laid on wood. So, if anything, it's pretty
abrasive, which watching the Kucera/Moya match, gives you a great chance to play from the
baseline. Having said that, being on wood, it definitely is a little easier on your body.
I think that's a good thing at this time of year.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT