ATP Tour World Championship
November 23, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What do you think about the draw?

TIM HENMAN: There are no easy ones. If anything, I think it's fair to admit I was happy
to avoid Mr. Sampras on an indoor court like this, you know, he's always -- I mean,
everybody has a lot to play before. With him really gunning for the No. 1 spot, I think
that's going to make him extra determined, and probably even harder than he already is to
beat. So, yeah, I think for me it's come out as well as I could have hoped for.

Q. What do you make of the Agassi injury?

TIM HENMAN: I found out sort of 15 minutes before, maybe five minutes before you guys
did. I don't think anyone quite knows how bad it is. We'll have to wait and see. I feel
confident against whoever I play. Having said that, if a guy plays and he's not a hundred
percent, that probably helps us.

Q. Interesting to see how it comes out. If he pulls out, Greg will come in.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that would be an interesting match. It would be an interesting one
for both of us. We've both achieved quite a few firsts this year. If we were to play each
other in the World Championships, that definitely would be another one. But, yeah, we'll
have to wait and see. Probably in a couple of days, we'll be able to answer.

Q. Do you know who you play yet?

TIM HENMAN: I think they find out in 20 minutes or half an hour.

Q. What do you make of the court or the surface? It's a new one from last year?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. If I play badly here, I will have definitely left my mark on this
tournament. You just need to go and have a look at the court. My shoe is rather marking on
the court. You could go and have a look at it.

Q. What color is it?

TIM HENMAN: Black, nice black.

Q. What color is the court?

TIM HENMAN: Blue on the outside, sort of red on the inside. I think it's a great
surface.

Q. (Inaudible)

TIM HENMAN: I had a brand-new pair of shoes on. I don't know. They're not meant to be
marking. By the looks of things, they will. But I think it is a really good surface. It's
something that has come more on the scene this year. I think everybody is much more in
favor of it. It's fair. It bounces high. It's not particularly fast for an indoor court.
You know, you've got the chance to play whichever way you'd like, from the baseline or
from serving and volleying.

Q. Is it the same at Basel?

TIM HENMAN: No. Same as Stuttgart.

Q. What's it called?

TIM HENMAN: GreenSet.

Q. Is it one we're going to have in Davis Cup, as well?

TIM HENMAN: No. I think David wasn't too informed about the surface.

Q. He didn't seem to understand.

TIM HENMAN: No. I think the one we're having in Davis Cup is the same as in the London
tournament, isn't it?

Q. I don't know.

TIM HENMAN: Nor do I.

Q. It's been a long season for you. Are you fresh?

TIM HENMAN: Yes, definitely. If you can't get motivated for this, then you're probably
in the wrong job. I felt like there was -- definitely after Stockholm, there was a sense
of relief. I had a few days playing golf. I didn't play until Thursday. I felt very ready
to start practicing again and start preparing. I had a couple of good days here. If I had
the choice, I'd like to play tomorrow really. I think two days practicing has been
perfectly adequate, so I'm ready to go.

Q. How many days have you been here? When did you come here?

TIM HENMAN: Saturday night. I practiced twice on Sunday, plus today.

Q. Has it been snowing since you've been here?

TIM HENMAN: Really lightly this morning.

Q. Really cold, I saw it was minus six or something.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. It was minus six when we landed. That shouldn't affect us, hopefully.

Q. Who have you been hitting with?

TIM HENMAN: I hit with Kafelnikov quite a lot, knowing that I couldn't play him
(laughter).

Q. Said there might be a bit of a problem.

TIM HENMAN: It was pretty amusing, actually. We played a couple of sets. I think on a
breakpoint, I hit a net cord (laughter).

Q. Hand go up straightaway? When you hit the net cord, did you speak in Russian?

TIM HENMAN: Russian, yeah (laughter).

Q. Would it be a disappointment not to get out of the round-robin group and into the
semis?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think that's fair to say. I think at this moment in time, that is
the goal, to come in as the top two of the group.

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, a lot of strange things happen in the round-robin.

Q. Do you like the concept that you can lose a match and still continue on?

TIM HENMAN: In a way, it doesn't seem quite right that perhaps you could lose and still
win the tournament. But, yeah, it's kind of a fairly unique situation. I think we don't
often have that opportunity. If that happens to be the case, I think anyone will take it.

Q. You played Rios twice. Played him once on clay, which is right up his alley, and
once at the Lipton, which could be your surface, but he's not bad on it.

TIM HENMAN: Well, I think also you look into the nature of our form at the time that we
played. I was struggling a little before Key Biscayne; I think that's fair to say. Coming
into the tournament, you know, I was really scraping the barrel for wins. That's where I
started to turn my year around, if you like. Still, I think from then until now, I think
I'm playing a lot better than I was then. You know, on clay if I practiced on it for 12
months, I still might not beat him. So, no, definitely this is going to be my best
opportunity, and I'm really looking forward to having that.

Q. Do you still practice with (inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, in London. Not matches. We just practice in London. He's retired. He
still plays very well. He's in London quite a bit. I practiced with him before Stockholm.

Q. Did you beat him?

TIM HENMAN: Not always, no. He still beats me.

Q. You said that anyone coming in here, if they can't get up for it, they should be in
another career. How soon, once you qualified, did you start realizing just what you'd
achieved, and how big a goal has it been for you?

TIM HENMAN: Well, I don't know. It was a goal at the beginning of the year. I think
then it was fair to say that March, probably up until May, I think making Hannover was not
really in the plans. But then the better and better I started to play, I knew that I could
give myself a chance. I think around US Open time, I knew I still had an uphill battle,
but Tashkent and Basel I think was the big turning point for me.

Q. How much tension was there on you at that time? There was a spell where you
definitely were in. 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that was a very tense time. I'm not quite sure who was more tense,
myself or my coach (laughter). It was. I think at times I thought that I was going to be
safe. Stuttgart and Paris was a real turning point for me -- well, for others. The best
thing about it was in Stockholm, it was still in my hands. I could go out there, and if I
won my matches, I could take care of it myself. I think that was a big satisfaction to do
that. Under the circumstances, having lost my last two weeks 7-6 in the third, had to play
a tiebreak basically to make this tournament. That was very satisfying. Looking back on
it, I was disappointed with the way I played against Martin and perhaps my intensity.
Perhaps I realize now how much was at stake and how much of a relief it was. I think
having achieved it, it had been such a goal, it was like --

Q. -- a big weight off your shoulders?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, exactly that.

Q. (inaudible). Was it your destiny to become a tennis professional?

TIM HENMAN: No.

Q. Last year they flew you in as a substitute. Was it a great motivation for this
season? 

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I kind of didn't feel like I really deserved to be playing last year.
I was quite a long way down. This year it's nice to be here on merit.

Q. What's your ambition for this tournament?

TIM HENMAN: I think it's to win as many matches as I can.

Q. I read you were very British.

TIM HENMAN: Very British?

Q. Yes. What does it mean?

TIM HENMAN: Both my parents are English, then all four grandparents are English, then
all great grandparents are English, so it's in my blood (laughter).

Q. About Corretja?

TIM HENMAN: We played 12 months ago in Paris. Definitely wasn't one of my better
matches. He's had a great year, and perhaps played even better on the hard courts. Towards
the end of the year, my form definitely has been very high, and perhaps he hasn't been
quite so successful.

Q. Have you made your mind up about Dusseldorf?

TIM HENMAN: I haven't committed one way or the other. I think it's much more likely. I
think there's a good chance this year that we will be playing. 

Q. What do you make of your draw?

TIM HENMAN: Definitely not going to be any easy matches here. I think if I was being
honest, the one to avoid was Sampras. Happy to be away from his group.

Q. There's some feeling that Agassi may not be too well. I saw him practicing earlier.
Didn't look too bad.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that's right. We sort of found out 15 minutes before the ceremony
that he wasn't going to be there, that he hurt his back this morning. We just have to wait
and see. Only he'll know how it is.

Q. What's the game plan going through each of the opponents in the draw?

TIM HENMAN: We have to wait and see. I think they're doing the schedule as we speak.
Then we'll find out who I play and when that is. I feel very confident going into the
tournament. Hopefully I can have a good run.

Q. What about the surface? Are you quite comfortable with that?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I think it's a great surface. It's much fairer than some of the
indoor surfaces. It's all about serve in the past. This you can do anything, you can stay
on the baseline, you can serve and volley. Whichever you do, you're going to have to do it
well.

Q. I was down there, had a walk around the court. What kind of a place is it to play
in?

TIM HENMAN: As an indoor arena goes, it doesn't get much better. 13,000 people will
pretty much be in there as the matches start. I think the atmosphere will be set.
Hopefully the players can give them something worth watching.

Q. A lot of the talk is about the fight for No. 1. Does that take a little bit of the
pressure off from you?

TIM HENMAN: Not really, no. I think everybody's got so much to play for in a tournament
like this. They've got their own sort of personal battle. Everyone will be looking to do
as well as they can.

Q. If Agassi does pull out, then we get Rusedski in there as well.

TIM HENMAN: It will be interesting. We've had a lot of firsts this year, both Greg and
myself. Definitely be a first to play each other in the World Championships.

Q. Can you talk about the competition with him?

TIM HENMAN: There's definitely a healthy rivalry amongst us. We both want to be ranked
higher than the other one. I think that helps us have a lot of good results.

Q. You have good relations?

TIM HENMAN: Earlier this year we had some problems, but now I think that's been put
behind us. We have a much better relationship. We practice together quite a lot. It works
out for both of us.

Q. Do you think sometimes you're a true Brit and he's not?

TIM HENMAN: Not really. It doesn't interest me.

Q. I was just talking to Greg and Pete. He's going for an individual accomplishment. It
matters a lot to him, he's concerned that maybe the American media isn't paying as much as
it should. What's happened to the Davis Cup in all of this?

TIM HENMAN: I think it is a big problem in the States. I think when you have the Davis
Cup, the regard to for Davis Cup in the UK, I think it's right up there with Wimbledon. In
the States, it doesn't seem to have the media, doesn't seem to appeal to them. I think
Pete on a couple of occasions, when he's played some of his best tennis away from home on
clay, in Moscow, for instance, winning the title, I don't think that he felt it meant a
great deal.

Q. Is that a cultural thing? Is it something in your upbringing, would you ever turn
down playing for your country?

TIM HENMAN: No. I think if you talked to a lot of the other nations, Davis Cup,
representing your country, is very special. I think to the American people in tennis
perhaps it doesn't mean too much.

Q. And for you, how much does it mean?

TIM HENMAN: A lot.

Q. Do you think the No. 1 challenge gives a lot of pressure to this tournament?

TIM HENMAN: It gives I think a lot of pressure for Sampras and Rios. Obviously, they're
the two guys fighting for the No. 1 spot. But I think it brings a lot of interest, even
more interest to the tournament.

Q. Do you like the draw?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I think my record is not too good against Sampras. I think on an
indoor court, perhaps it's better for me to play Rios.

Q. You lose with Marcelo at the Lipton.

TIM HENMAN: And in Rome.

Q. Did Marcelo or you change his play since then?

TIM HENMAN: I think an indoor court where it's a little quicker, I think that probably
helps me a little bit. But, like everybody in this tournament, they're all very good
players. There's not going to be any easy matches.

Q. People say Marcelo's behavior out of the court is changing. Do you think that?

TIM HENMAN: I think, yeah, his attitude toward things are changing a little bit. He's
probably more mature than some years ago. I think he's making more of an effort away from
the court.

Q. How does making it to the ATP champions compare?

TIM HENMAN: I think it's right up there. This is the elite, if you like. If you would
have said in May that I would have made it, I would have looked to you pretty strangely.
I'm pleased to be here, but now I want to have a good week.

Q. How do you feel physically and mentally? It's been a long year.

TIM HENMAN: It has. We played a lot of tennis. When you're involved in an event of this
stature, you're not going to need any extra motivation.

Q. Obviously, you climbed a long way up in the world rankings here. How important is
the cash, as well?

TIM HENMAN: I don't think that has any influence on it. I think it's obviously easy to
say that if you've earned more and more money. But, no, you're playing for the prestige of
the tournament and hopefully for the win.

Q. In the past, British tennis fans have thought about Wimbledon, but not really taken
great note of this event. Greg here last year, you had a guest appearance. How do you
think this is at home, how significant? 

TIM HENMAN: I think the title of it speaks for itself, the World Championships. It's
the best of the eight of the year. You don't need to say more than that.

Q. (Inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN: There's no easy ones. Everybody here has had a great year. You know, I'm
really looking forward to it.

Q. One question on the Davis Cup final.

TIM HENMAN: Sweden is going to win.

Q. Sweden, what score?

TIM HENMAN: Sweden, 3-2. Sweden will win the doubles.

Q. Split the singles?

TIM HENMAN: Yes.

Q. Any comment on the play, Swedish, Italians?

TIM HENMAN: It's great for the Italians to be playing at home on clay, with the support
they have. I think the strength and depth is very important for the Swedes.

Q. Who do you think are the main players in your group that you are worried about
playing?

TIM HENMAN: I think, if anything, I was happy to avoid Sampras. I haven't had a good
record against him. Having said that, there's not going to be any easy matches. I'm
looking forward to it. 

Q. What do you think about the facilities here?

TIM HENMAN: We're totally spoiled I think is the best way to put it. It's an amazing
arena. The facilities are, all the players have, is great. We're really well looked after.
I think that's extra enjoyment.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT