EUROCARD OPEN
October 29, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You served very, very well at times when you were in trouble. But the double fault,
two doublefaults, first time one in the second -- 
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think there definitely wasn't too much wrong with the way I played.
I think I did play two poor tiebreaks. That unfortunately, happens from time to time. But
yeah, I think up until those points I can't have too many complaints with my game. I did
serve very well. The game that he broke me in the first set -- the only time he broke me
in the match, missed a couple of first serves. I think he hit a few winning returns and
then I hit three aces to get back into it. And then he hit a couple of more winning
returns. That is sometimes matches, you know, like that go in your favor; sometimes they
don't. It didn't today. It is as simple as that really. 
 
Q. You looked a little more tense than in a lot of more recent matches.
 
 TIM HENMAN: Perhaps. 
 
Q. Do you think there is a bit of extra pressure on the fact that the Hannover thing
hasn't been sorted out yet?
 
 TIM HENMAN: No, it is inevitable. At this stage of the year, it is on everybody's mind
who hasn't qualified and who has got a chance. But take that aside, you just look at the
way I am playing, I think I am still playing very well. In the tiebreaks, I did play
poorly. I was 4-Love down before anything began to happen. That is too big a lead. 
 
Q. What is it about his game that bothers you most?
 
 TIM HENMAN: He has beaten a lot of good players, he serves very well. He has got big
first serve and he likes to take on his groundstrokes, his ball pretty big off both sides.
I think in the second set perhaps he kept the ball a little bit low and stayed in the
rally pretty well. That was obviously a tactic that worked well. 
 
Q. Applied little bit of pressure on second serve (Inaudible.), was that an important
factor, the pressure...
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think his return is good. I think especially on the second serve he can
really get on top of it with both hands, but I felt like virtually all the time, whenever
I made a first serve, I was hitting the corners pretty regularly and he didn't have too
many opportunities. 
 
Q. You seemed to become much more aggressive against his second serve from the second
set on, so in hindsight the two 15-30s you had in the third set, second serves you didn't
make (inaudible) --
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think if I was put back in that situation I still think I would go
for the same shots. That definitely -- I think, the first one was Love-15 in the - at
1-All and then I think perhaps 15-30 at 2-All. I missed them both. I wouldn't say there
was anything wrong with my tactics. I think it was the right tactic to take on, but, you
know, those are shots you'd like to make and if I did, I think it probably would have been
a different story. 
 
Q. Is there a great deal of difference coming from the Center Court one match and then
having to play on, as it were, on an outside court with just a handful of people?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think, if anything, it is probably a little bit easier to see on that
court. I think on Center Court the ball comes "out of the people," if you like,
so, yeah, if anything, it is a different atmosphere, obviously. But I think visibility is
perhaps a little bit better on the court we played today. 
 
Q. Earlier you had a word with the umpires. People just behind them obviously were
supporters of Gambill. What they were saying?
 
 TIM HENMAN: No, I felt like during some of the rallies they were talking a little bit.
But no, I think only it happened once. 
 
Q. During the rally you?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, just while we were playing the rallies. 
 
Q. The racket appeared to suffer a little bit at the end. How annoyed were you by that
--
 
 TIM HENMAN: Sure, it is a match that I really wanted to win. It is as simple as that. I
don't think it was the racket's fault, but sometimes they -- 
 
Q. Best option at the time.
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, you said it. Fortunately, I got a few more. 
 
Q. It has been a week where some of your rivals for these two places in Hannover,
Kucera, Korda, they have lost matches. Krajicek won today. So how do you feel about the
situation? You have got Paris coming up --
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I still am very happy with the situation I am in. But when you look
at this week and the winner will probably end up getting 500 points; the winner in Paris
will get 500 points and the winner in Moscow and Stockholm will probably get 300 points,
so there is still plenty of point to play for and there is plenty of points for me to pick
up. But, no, it is -- still in Super 9s, a lot of things can change, but definitely like
to be in my situation. Having said that, I still got to go out and win matches if I want
to qualify. 
 
Q. Who do you view as the guy if there is one -- (inaudible) --
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it is tough to say. I think -- I think Kafelnikov -- it is difficult.
I think Krajicek perhaps this week. Kafelnikov seems to win Moscow pretty regularly,
there's 300 points for him. Yeah, there is the guys, you know, could be Korda next week -
he hasn't played particularly well recently. 
 
Q. There isn't one? 
 
 TIM HENMAN: I don't think there is one. I think they are all sort of in a very similar
boat. They are all capable of it. You got Korda, Krajicek, Ivanisevic, Kafelnikov and they
have definitely won plenty of indoor tournaments between them. They are capable of doing
it again. But I think I am still very happy the way I am playing. I won Basel a couple of
weeks ago, so, could be me winning one of those tournaments. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 TIM HENMAN: I am 300 and something in front of Korda or a little bit more in front of
Krajicek. Obviously he is going to close that gap this week. I am even further in front of
the others; that is why I say I'd much rather be in my position - still a long way to go. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT