COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
September 29, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. That started brightly, then turned to ashes quite quickly. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think it was probably more -- I played pretty well to go up 5-1.  I think I was playing pretty loose tennis, going for my shots.  I kept going for them at times, but didn't make quite as many from then on.  I don't think my concentration was quite as good as it could have been on some of the bigger points. 
 

Q. Why was that?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Just, you know, I think I played a lot of tennis.  I think definitely after sort of the intensity levels of the Davis Cup at the weekend, I felt -- I didn't feel very good yesterday physically.  I felt pretty stiff, pretty tired.  Yeah, if you play as much as I have, there's going to be times when you come on the court and you feel as if you're trying your hardest, but there isn't so much left to give.  
 

Q. Did his return of serves get you into two minds?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, you definitely have to mix it up against him.  He's got some of the best returns in his game.  That's one of his strengths.  Yeah, I think it's important just to worry about your own serve, you know, not think about the way he's returning.  If you just concentrate on your serve, pick your spot and go for it, I think that's the best way to approach it. 
 

Q. The backhand slice seemed to be giving you a lot of trouble.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Did it? 
 

Q. Well, that's how it seemed.
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's what you thought.  I thought I was hitting the ball all right really.  It's a very different surface, different conditions from the Davis Cup.  There again, I wouldn't expect to be playing in the same type of conditions here as in Nottingham. 
 

Q. Obviously, you talk about concentration levels, the aftermath of everything at weekend, but why do you think it went like that, and then like that (indicating up and down)?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't think it went like that at the beginning.  I think I was playing pretty good tennis, but I don't think I was doing anything amazing.  I think he was  making a lot of mistakes early on, wasn't making many first serves.  He was missing in the rallies.  If anything, it was just a reversal.  I started to miss, and I think he started to make a few more balls. Obviously, I had set points on my serve, and I would have liked to have taken one of those, but really didn't make any first serves at the time. 
 

Q. Did playing in front of big, wide open spaces affect it?
 
TIM HENMAN:  A little bit strange.  Yeah, I think we expected a few more -- a few less empty seats, rather. No, it's a really impressive arena to play in.  It's something I've enjoyed. 
 

Q. You said after the Davis Cup, having sort of achieved what was achieved last weekend, with what you have in mind, hoping to get to Hannover and the ATP tournaments ahead, you virtually said this was going to be a bonus week.
 
TIM HENMAN:  It is. 
 

Q. Was it hard to really get built up for here?
 
TIM HENMAN:  A little bit.  I think it's just been -- it feels like I've been playing week after week. Yeah, there is quite a lot of money at stake, but maybe I realize now that isn't the most important thing, and perhaps that doesn't mean quite as much as it used to.  
 

Q. So in retrospect, might you have been wiser to say, "Thank you, but no thank you"?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think that could be a fair assumption.  You learn from your mistakes, I think.  I feel like I have played perhaps a little bit too much. 
 

Q. When did you leave for the States?  Second to the last week in July?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  You work backwards.  I think that would make it about -- 
 

Q. -- the 20th, something like that?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, seems about right. 
 

Q. How many days have you spent at home since the 20th of July?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think one full day, yeah. 
 

Q. Do you think there is a place in the calendar for this event?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think there needs to be one found. I think it's a great tournament.  You know, it makes sense with the four Grand Slams, four biggest tournaments, you've got a great opportunity to have a great field.  At the moment, it does seem that the calendar is pretty busy.  But I think a lot of people should try very hard to find a date that is suitable for everyone, not just the organizers and the players.  You know, it's tough with the amount of tennis  we're playing, with Rafter in Australia playing Davis Cup, Sampras injured.  I think if they could perhaps find another eight weeks for the calendar to make it 60 weeks a year, then we'd probably be all right. 
 

Q. Does it make sense?  They've talked about merging this tournament with the end of the season ATP Championships.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Obviously, there needs to be things to be worked out.  But I think a lot of people -- I'm not quite sure what the players' point of view is.  If I'm talking personally, I think it would be a good idea.  I think you put everything together and then you're going to have one big event instead of the World Championships and this, two tournaments where I think there should perhaps only be one. 
 

Q. Are you going home tonight?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah. 
 

Q. Not staying for Manchester United then?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT