US OPEN
September 8, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. At the risk of asking a cliche question, can you describe how you feel? 
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah. Very disappointed with the outcome of the match. It's the fourth
round of a Grand Slam. And I think at times, you know, at times in the match, I think I
had -- my game plan was definitely right. You know, there are other times when you feel
like you want to try and do a little bit more. But, you know, especially on his serve,
there's not a lot you can do sometimes. 
 
Q. One point never turns a match. But how crucial was that game where you lost your
serve in the third, and there were two very, very strange calls?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think -- I think it's tough to say that a match is decided by, you
know, one close call, whether a good call or a bad call. But, you know, if it was in, then
I do think it did affect the outcome. That was a game where I think I would have held my
serve, and ended up being the break that won -- the break for him that won the third set.
And I think in the fourth, you know, that was a time when his confidence level rose. You
know, he ran away with it. 
 
Q. If it's any consolation, the TV showed it slap on the line.
 
 TIM HENMAN: Makes me feel much better (laughter). Yeah, I think -- I felt like as soon
as I hit it, it was in. And I felt like when the ball landed, it looked in. But, yeah,
those are things that go your way sometimes. I suppose in his shoes, it went his way. And
in mine, it didn't. 
 
Q. Was it a case of one being over in the next rally, he hit a shot that looked like it
may have been over the line?
 
 TIM HENMAN: No. 
 
Q. Was it just a case of take 6-Love off him in the second, and then (inaudible)?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think that goes to show. I don't think really I did anything drastically
different in the second set. Perhaps made a couple more returns at the right time, in the
space of 20 minutes, without the rain delay, it's a set all. That's the sort of strange
nature of the match. But, yeah, it's disappointing now. But I feel like, you know, with
the tennis that I'm playing, you know, in the last five, six tournaments, I haven't won a
tournament, but I feel like I'm, you know, beginning to put myself in a situation where
I'm playing good enough tennis to start winning events. And, yeah, I think that's the
positive. I feel like the last two months of the year are going to be really important,
and I'm desperately keen to, you know, continue this type of form, and finish off in
Hannover. 
 
Q. Given that you feel in that sort of form, is the frustration and disappointment
greater because the bottom half of the draw sort of opened up?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think so. You know, I definitely realized that I had an
opportunity. Yeah, in the last two Grand Slams, I think I've had big opportunities. But, I
mean, having said that, I think I have to look at the way I'm playing. I'm playing very
good tennis, I think. So, yeah, it's tough to think about the next tournament now when you
just lost. But I think that's the aim for the next few days. 
 
Q. And the aim for the autumn is Hannover?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I think -- I don't know what I am. I'm probably 10 or 11 maybe, you
know, on that ranking. So with indoor swing coming up, I had good results that period of
the year, last year. So if I can improve on that, then I don't see why there isn't a
chance that I could be in Hannover. 
 
Q. You seem to have an awful lot of trouble on your serve. Was it that you weren't
serving and volleying well or was it because he improved so much on his side of the court?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think there were times when I served pretty consistently. There are other
times when I did struggle in the wind. But, yeah, he's a dangerous, dangerous type of
player, the way he plays. There are definitely times when you feel like the match isn't
really in your control. He can be hitting aces, or other times you can, you know, put a
ball in court, and then he, you know, will let loose on a groundstroke and miss by 12
feet. 
 
Q. Do you see some change in his game?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Not especially. I think, you know, he's still serving as hard as ever. He's
the type of guy that's going to take a lot of risks. So I don't think his game's changed a
great deal. 
 
Q. You have a title to defend next week. Is it going to be difficult to pick yourself
up after that?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think, yeah, with the nature of this tournament, I feel -- I feel, you
know, pretty ready, even after quite a busy spell in the States. I feel ready to, you
know, just keep the ball rolling. Had a great tournament, a great week there last year. I
want to back that up again. 
 
Q. Then, of course, is the Davis Cup in Nottingham where we can lift spirits by
possibly getting into the World Group.
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think that's another thing that both Greg and myself have listed
pretty high on our priorities. So we've got ourselves in the situation of a qualifying
match for the World Group. You know, I think we're both keen to save that opportunity. 
 
Q. How different is the surface in Tashkent?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think it's pretty similar, yeah. It's perhaps a little bit slower than
these courts. But I'd say it's as close as it gets, really, to Nottingham. 
 
Q. Of the remaining contenders now, apart from the two Spaniards who play tonight, who
do you fancy might come through? Any surprises?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think it's tough. I think there are a lot of surprises in men's tennis at
the moment. I think the depth is very, very good. But, you know, it takes a brave man to
bet away from Sampras. He seems to be playing pretty confidently. Having said that, you
know, Kucera beat him in Melbourne, so it's going to be another tough match. 
 
Q. What, if anything, do you think you need to do to just make another step up,
specifically in your game?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I think my game has in the past six, eight weeks gone to a new level. But I
think it's very closse to actually going up again. But I think I look at the match today,
it's just, you know, a couple -- either a missed volley or one that I probably should make
or a double-fault, things of that nature. At this level, it only takes a small margin. So
that's, you know, the next aim, is to try and eradicate those types of errors. And I think
if I do that, I mean, I'm much tougher than I was to beat now. If I get rid of those types
of mistakes, then it will get even harder. 
 
Q. Is it just concentration or something more than that?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I don't know. I felt like today at times, when things haven't been going my
way, I've been able to get a little bit more aggressive, get a little bit more fired up.
But today it was tough to do that. I didn't really feel there was so much to hang onto in
the match, because I had the right game plan. But, you know, when he serves as well as he
does in the fourth, there's not so much you can do. But I think the more I play and
practice to a higher level, then I think that will come on the match court. 
 
Q. Although the delay was only about half an hour in total by the time you got back,
and you were able to sort of get through that set 6-Love, did you think it maybe just cost
you a slight bit of rhythm? You were really into it, weren't you?
 
 TIM HENMAN: That was when the match was tipping in my favor. And I think the first
probably five, six games were pretty key in the third set. I think I had Love-30 on his
first service game at Love-1. I had 15-30 in the next game. You know, if I can squeak out
a break at some stage in one of those two games, then it might have been a different
story. 
 
Q. Do you get the feeling, having gotten to the fourth round this year, as you did two
years ago, you can win this one day?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I mean, you know, looking at the way I've played in the last two Slams, I
really feel like I've been in contention both times. And the more -- that's why I say, you
know, the more I put myself in contention, I think I will win. In the last four, five
weeks in the States and at Wimbledon, I'm putting myself in contention. So that's a big
positive. Something that wasn't happening all the time at the beginning of the year. So I
really want to go away and finish off this year very strongly. 
 
Q. You admitted after Wimbledon you had a bit of a delayed reaction, took you a while
to get over it. Do you think this time it will take a few days?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I felt like I was much, much closer at Wimbledon. Obviously, being a
semifinal, obviously the nature of the match. No, I think when you have a pretty
competitive nature, doesn't matter where it is or what it is. I don't like, I don't enjoy
losing. I think in the next few days when I'm not playing, I think I'll definitely think
about it a lot and try and go away and build from it. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT