PILOT PEN INTERNATIONAL
August 21, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MIKI SINGH: First question for Tim.

Q. Tough one to lose, Tim?

TIM HENMAN: You said it.

Q. Your thoughts on it?

TIM HENMAN: It is tough. I think probably against Krajicek I was due to lose one like
that. You look at the nature of our previous two matches, 7-6, 6-7, 7-6, 7-4, that
obviously can go either way. 7-6, 6-7, 7-5 served the match in that one. Yeah, sure, I'd
like to have won, but I came pretty close, but I didn't, but that is -- you have got to
bounce back from it. I don't think there are too many things wrong with my game, so, it is
not the easiest thing just to forget about, but I don't think it is worth dwelling on too
much.

Q. Last year you had kind of a bad year here in the States. This year had been very
good.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah.

Q. What has been the difference?

TIM HENMAN: I think last year, if anything, I didn't play to my strengths. When I was
playing badly I think I was too negative and I wasn't aggressive enough, and I think
having learned from some of of the bad periods of my career, I think those are the times
when I have been a little negative and this year, with Toronto and here, I have been very
aggressive. I have been serving a lot, volleying a lot more, and getting to the net. That
is obviously the way I play to my strengths.

Q. Any regrets about the way you played tonight?

TIM HENMAN: No, I don't think so. You'd want to perhaps change a couple of things, but
you can't always -- can't always hit the shots exactly right. But no, I feel very happy
with the way I am playing and feel very confident going into the Open.

Q. Did you hit any shots in the tiebreaker that you thought he wasn't going to get to
that he did?

TIM HENMAN: No, I don't think so. Sure, when the tiebreak goes as it did, every point
is key - and I think we both hit some great shots at the right time - we both hit a few
that weren't so good, but played a 34-point tiebreak. There is lots of -- going to be lots
of ups-and-downs.

Q. Can you remember that forehand pass that you made when you were breakpoint up at
30-40 in the 6th game there? It was just a half inch long.

TIM HENMAN: Sure.

Q. Did you have a feeling as to whether that was out or in?

TIM HENMAN: As soon as I hit it I thought it was going to be out. A lot of the time you
have pretty good idea when you hit the ball and, yeah, in the first set in the 12th game I
played great game, I get the pretty much the same shot and I make it. That wins me the set
and in the third set I missed it by not a great deal and I don't think you could have -- I
mean, the score is obviously very close, but I don't think you could have -- I don't think
I have played a closer match in my career. I think there were so many breakpoints that
were, you know, either made on the line or missed by, you know, matter of millimeters, but
they went in my favor in the last couple of times we played. They didn't go my way
tonight.

Q. He seemed to pick up his return in the second and third set as opposed to the first.
Did that start to wear on you towards the end of the match?

TIM HENMAN: I think, if anything, his serve started to I don't think he served great in
the first set. But he really started to pick up his own serve in the second and third sets
and I think when for a serve and volleyer, aggressive type of play, your serve can dictate
your whole game and I think he really started to serve a lot better in the last two sets
and then, hence, he started to return a lot better and was making many more returns, many
more passing shots. That is the way it goes.

Q. Is there any sense in which you can enjoy it sort of a game of Russian roulette like
that at the end or are you too intense and is it too nerve-wracking?

TIM HENMAN: Definitely the longest tiebreak I have played. I have watched quite a few
other ones, but yeah, 18-16, takes some beating. There is not a lot you can say really.
You just have to -- I'd love to have won -- love to have been in the semis, but it didn't
happen for me.

Q. What kind of a difference does this kind of a loss as opposed to kind of 6-2, 6-2?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, end of the day a loss is a loss. I came very close tonight, but yeah,
it is interesting you can - you know, I would have been much more disappointed if I'd have
gone out and lost playing really badly, but today I played a good match, so, I feel when
you look at things in perspective with the US Open coming up, that is the big one, so, I
feel very happy with my game going into that.

Q. Comparing yourself now with going into the US Open twelve months ago, what do you
think is most improved? More forceful generally?

TIM HENMAN: I think so. I think my overall game has improved definitely. I think my
movement's a lot better and I think that has definitely helped me with my serve and volley
I think I am covering the net well. But I think, if anything, I perhaps understand my game
a lot more. I am probably a little bit more smarter on the court. You know, going into the
US Open very optimistic.

Q. Do you plan your matches with David Felgate a lot or how is your relationship like
more of a coach everyday, but a strategy how goes --

TIM HENMAN: We don't -- I think -- if you know your strengths, obviously if I go out
and play the tennis that I am capable of, then the match can take care of itself. I don't
really have to worry too much about what my opponent is up to. Sure you have to -- things
aren't going your way, you have to be aware and have to be able to switch things around
and vary things, but no, I think obviously had a good relationship. We worked together for
nearly six years. Since starting off with -- as a professional with one coach to be No.
10, you have obviously made a lot of progress.

Q. Would you say that at the moment you are playing the best tennis of your career or
is it just a lot more consistency?

TIM HENMAN: A lot more consistent. I can play -- I have played better matches
definitely. I have played better than I did tonight, but I think my overall consistency is
really coming together and I think that is something that I have been trying to do and
that is one of the positives. I think the more I can cut out the, you know, the matches
against lower ranked guys that I should win - it always is going to happen from time to
time - but I think it is happening too often early parts of this year and last year. So
the more consistent I become, the more -- the better and better I am going to be at
playing the matches and harder I am going to be to beat.

Q. Does a match like tonight make you feel that you belong in the Top-10, do you think?

TIM HENMAN: No. Tonight, no relevance on that at all. I have always known that I have
had the ability to be in the Top-10 and I am in the Top-10 - might not be on Monday - but
I know that I am definitely capable of getting there staying there and going a lot higher.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT