GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   You weren't able hold serve on that first shots?

TIM HENMAN:  That was probably more his doing than what I was doing wrong.  I think if you compare the two matches that we've played, you know, today he really returned my serve in a different way to the way he returned it in New York.  I think I had a similar type of game plan today because it worked very well in New York.  But I think the balls were a lot slower here than the -- than the Open.  And, you know, he was able to -- to hit a lot of low returns and set up passing shots.


Q.   It was going quite well and there was that very long game (inaudible) and then you got to game point (inaudible)?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think, you know, it was definitely an important game.  I think up until that stage I was down a break in the second and I got back and starting to put more and more pressure on his serve.  But having said, yeah, there's you know a  couple of close calls that go against you and, you know, suddenly he was serving for the match and that's the way it goes sometimes.  But you know, from my point of view, fundamentally, there's nothing wrong with my game.  I'm still hitting the ball,, still hitting the ball very well.  Obviously, playing Muster in the first round, it's not an easy start for the tournament.  But I definitely won't -- I definitely won't dwell on this.  I think it gives me a chance to have four -- four or five days before I play in New Haven just to -- to continue to work on a few things and hopefully have another good run in New Haven.  But it sure is disappointing to lose but I still -- still feel very positive about the way I'm playing.


Q.   Sampras described his build up to the U.S. Open -- a quite heavy schedule.  Do you feel that's the same for you or not?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think it is.  After L.A. And Toronto, making the final in the semis -- obviously played my fair share of tennis.  Having said that, I felt very fresh coming in -- coming into the match today.  But who knows, it may be a blessing in disguise, I can have a couple of days to rest and recharge the batteries and I'm looking forward to next week. 


Q.   There was a point in the second set when you broke each other back and forth.  When you broke his serve, did you have a feeling at that point that you -- that your game was strong and that you were getting an upper hand?

TIM HENMAN:  I felt my game was strong pretty much all the time. If you look at -- if you look at what happened in the first set, I think he hit a lot of great shots to win the points.  I don't think it was so much of my own fault.  So I had -- I had a game plan and I stuck to it.  And sure, I think it's 4-3 in the second set, I had a couple of break points and I couldn't get one of those.  But you know if I had, then, you know, I would have fancied my chances but he definitely played a good match.


Q.   When you're playing someone who is 30, do you try to do anything, do you try to use their youth as an advantage or wear them down or anything like that?

TIM HENMAN:  I think age is irrelevant.  I think, you know, he is -- he is definitely one of the older guys on the Tour but I'd also say that he's one of the fittest, one of the strongest guys.


Q.   Tim, you obviously try to work your way to the net a lot of the time or serve and volley to get to the net.  That sort of seems to be one of your main  intentions.  But when you did stray (inaudible) but do you feel that you've got that extra -- .

TIM HENMAN:  I felt very comfortable when we were in the rallies but I think that -- I think if anything, that's you know if I were just -- try to beat him at his own game.  And you know, I was -- I was definitely creating opportunity to move forward and I think a lot of the time I took them and I think that was definitely the most effective way to play.  You know, having said that, he did hit a lot of really good passing shots across the line.


Q.   Tim, the ATP experiment of five tournaments with coaching, what is your take on that?

TIM HENMAN:  The main person is not something that I agree with.  I've always enjoyed the -- I've always enjoyed the one-on-one sort of, you know, individual -- individuality of the sport.  But having said that, I was sort of on the player counsel at the time when we decided to choose five tournaments to give it a go and I think it's been a good idea to try that.  And I think fairly shortly we get the feedback from all the players and their thoughts on it, and if everybody says that, you know, no, we don't like it, well then we've given it a try and it can be binned.  But I think we just have to wait and see, not only the player tournaments, the fans,  their opinions.

TIM HENMAN:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT