THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 25, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Not only did the splendid form continue, but you didn't really let him get into the match?  Unlike Korda, you got a great start and kept it going throughout. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's right.  I think I was obviously very pleased with the way that I started off today and was able to maintain that.  I don't think he really had any opportunities on my serve.  I didn't lose too many points on my serve. Obviously that was putting pressure on him.  I broke him first game.  That set the tone of the match. 
 

Q. Tim, big edge for you in this match was your second serve today.  Didn't really handle your second serve at all today.  Is that something that's been lacking during this sort of down period you've had earlier this year?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No.  I don't think it has any relevance whatsoever.  I think my first serve was what was dictating things.  I think I only lost about nine or ten points on my serve in the whole match.  When you're holding your serve easily, I was aggressive from the baseline, putting pressure on him, it's not easy, really difficult conditions, windy, wasn't just coming from one direction, swirling.  I feel it's easier to volley than to hit passing shots, so that was my game plan.  I stuck to it and it paid off. 
 

Q. You only got 47 percent of your first serves in.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, that's right.  Probably not quite as high as you'd like, but having said that, in windy conditions, you're not going to be able to serve 130 miles an hour aces.  It's just not really possible.  I think when I did get my first serve in, I would have thought I would have won the majority of the points. 
 

Q. The point is you got an extraordinarily -- you won an extraordinarily high percentage of your second serves today.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Did I? 
 

Q. Yes.  Getting quite a habit of beating Grand Slam champions?
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's right.  I thought about that.  Beat Rafter and Korda yesterday, Kuerten today.  Nice to be able to make up the fourth, but don't think that's going to be possible. 
 

Q. You beat Krajicek at Wimbledon.
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's right.  Sorry.  Slipped my mind. 
 

Q. Tim, this is your first semifinal in the US.  Can you talk about overall the tournament, getting to this point?  I'm sure you're excited.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Definitely, yeah.  I wouldn't say I played particularly well in Super 9s before.  You know, I lost first round in Indian Wells, was pretty unhappy the way I played there.  You know, I was really just looking -- everybody says it's a cliche -- but take it one match at a time.  I was pleased the way I played against Stafford.  That obviously has given me a confidence booster to get a win under my belt.  I haven't let up on that at all.  In each of my matches, I've had a game plan and I've stuck to it.  It's that sort of execution I'm most pleased with. 
 

Q. Each game, the level has gone up a bit all the time, hasn't it?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think so, yeah.  I think the matches have got better and better.  You know, my opponents aren't  getting easier, that's for sure.  You know, I'm delighted the way I'm playing now.  Now it's my job just to keep doing that. 
 

Q. Next round, we'll know tonight, but Rios or Enqvist.  What's your thoughts on that?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's going to be a tough match.  I think those two are both playing -- Rios definitely, I think he's playing the best tennis of anyone at the moment.  He's been very consistent this year, been very difficult to beat.  Enqvist, likewise, didn't have the best of year last year.  I think this year he's come out with a point to prove, that he wants to get back into the Top 10.  He's also played very, very well.  It's going to be an interesting match between those two.  They play similar types of game.  Whoever I play, whether it's Rios or Enqvist, I'll have a similar game plan, to be aggressive, try and serve well and dominate the net. 
 

Q. Tim, what is the last time you played this well?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I suppose in patches.  I played well in Doha and Sydney.  I think consistently, this is probably one of the best tournaments of my career.  I think to not have dropped a set against the four guys that I've played is obviously a good sign for me.  I just want to try and keep that going. 
 

Q. How much of it is picking the right shot at the right time?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Definitely, I think a lot of it is mental.  Even when I was playing badly, I've still got a pretty wide range of shots.  It is using them at the right time.  I think that was one of my problems, that I didn't really have a game plan, there wasn't a purpose of what I was trying to do on each and every point, each and every shot.  But now, I'm playing very simple tennis, but it's very effective.  I think that's what's paying off. 
 

Q. Tim, there are really few pure serve-and-volley players in the game, who consistently serve and volley on fast courts.  Does that dictate a different kind of training regimen than a guy who is going to run the baseline for the most part?  Do you have specific drills that are designed for you just to serve and volley?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I think it's an important aspect of my game.  I think when I've been playing badly, I've probably been a little too cautious, a little negative, playing too much from the baseline.  I think it's been pretty clear when I've been playing my best tennis, you know, over the last week I have been very aggressive.  I think I've volleyed pretty well.  It's stupid not to use those shots.  That's what I've been doing.  Yeah, it's important to keep working on every aspect of your game.  But, you know, I think I want to spend more time, you know, attacking the net than running side to side on the baseline. 
 

Q. I didn't get to see you play your first two matches.  It seems like you've been cruising and winning relatively easily.  Do you think you played better today than you played your first two rounds?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's difficult.  I think the quality of tennis, probably it is best was against Moya.  Having said that, I think the conditions were the easiest.  The wind was pretty light.  You're able to go for your shots a little bit more.  In the wind, in the last two matches, not to say -- I still played very, very well, but the conditions have been harder.  You have to play to those conditions a little bit more. 
 

Q. It seems like you had the right tactic to play against him.  Did you study his game at all and did you have like a game plan when you first walked into the court?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it's pretty obvious the way Gustavo is going to play.  You don't win the French Open if  you don't have good groundstrokes.  He plays the majority of his points from the baseline.  You know, I don't want to try and outrun him. That's going to get me nowhere.  My game plan pretty much in all the matches has been to be aggressive, try and serve and volley well, make some first serves and get in behind it.  That was the game plan today.  I stuck to it. 
 

Q. On one of the final points in the match, Tim, you drove him deep to the right corner, then you had to try to cover near your left side line.  Looked like you actually spun yourself around, as if you'd lost the ball on his return.
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it was in the last game.  I thought no way to hit his passing shot, the ball had hit the net cord and come over.  I was trying to have a look for the ball as quickly as possible.  Fortunately for me, it was on his side of the net. 
 

Q. You weren't sure when you spun around whether it had come over?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I saw it hit the tape, but I didn't know where it had gone from there. 
 

Q. Do you realize you've made only one easy mistake during the whole match?
 
TIM HENMAN:  What was that?  
 

Q. That was a forehand, short forehand that came high, you let it bounce.  That was the only mistake you made.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Thank you (laughter). 
 

Q. We were expecting a few more.
 
TIM HENMAN:  I can't have any complaints the way I played today.  If you only miss one high forehand in the match, that's obviously a good sign. 
 

Q. You're so well-known in England.  What's it like to play in the United States and be winning, and you're sort of anonymous here?  Do you prefer that?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It has its moments.  I think there are times when I play at Wimbledon and the attention I think is at its greatest.  There's obviously a lot of focus on myself and Greg for those few weeks.  It's great to have that much support, and it always will be my most enjoyable tournament, playing at home, playing at Wimbledon.  Having said that, there are times when it is nice to have a change.  You come away from that.  There isn't so much attention.  You can get on with what you're doing without so many people looking in.  But having said that, I don't have a problem with either, either venues. 
 

Q. Is the wind predictable out there?  Is it swirling, going in one direction? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's very, very unpredictable.  I think that made it pretty difficult.  Normally if the wind is just coming in one direction, it makes it a little bit easier.  I felt today, from both ends, seemed to be serving downwind.  Whether that's the case or not, it does make life a little bit difficult.  But I was pleased with the way I dealt with it. 
 

Q. Do you shorten your toss?  What do you do in those conditions?
 
TIM HENMAN:  You have to take the lines out of play.  You're not going to go for the lines as much.  I suppose an advantage for me was I was playing points from the net.  I think volleying is easier than hitting passing shots. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT