THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  When was the last time you played that well? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Sorry, it has to be an English person asking.  (laughter).  Not this year.  That was the best match I've played this year, for sure.  I think, you know, just the consistency, the quality of the tennis was pretty much as good as it gets from me. 
 

Q.  How do you think you were able to step it up from not having played as well before?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think I have stepped it up, obviously.  I think it's probably come from my practice. That's kind of been the frustrating thing over the last three or four weeks.  There was a time when I wasn't practicing well and I was playing badly in matches.  But then the past three or four weeks, I've been hitting the ball well in practice, haven't been taking it on to the match court.  I've said before that I think it probably lacked a  purpose in my matches.  I think my game plan today was pretty clear-cut.  I stuck to it.  Can't have any complaints at all. 
 

Q.  What was the game plan, to sort of get on to pressure him to come in?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yes, be very aggressive.  I mean, my serve was definitely on today, consistent.  You know, hitting the corners pretty well.  From the baseline, you know, I was aggressive. Anything short, I wanted to come in.  I came in a lot on his second serve.  I think I was covering the net very well.  So I don't think there was an area of my game that wasn't working today. 
 

Q.  Probably also what was encouraging, 15-40, the way you got out of that.
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's right.  Even when I was serving the first set at 5-1, down Love-40, probably not the most important stage of the match, but still hit some good serves.  Something Paul Haarhuis does very well (laughter). (Paul entering room.)  Likewise, I think I saved a couple of breakpoints in the second set.  Even though I lost my serve at 2-1, I was able to bounce back, played a good game on his serve.  I was aggressive and broke to regain the initiative. 
 

Q.  You looked as if you were really enjoying yourself  from start to finish out there.
 
TIM HENMAN:  For sure.  If I play tennis like that, it's much more enjoyable than in the past when I've been struggling.  I think throughout the match, I was the one dictating the points. 
 

Q.  Did the fact that he has been a Top-10 Player and he's still a Top-20 player make it any easier for you than if he had been down in the 80s or 90s?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't think so.  Sure, I was struggled with some lower-ranked guys.  I've raised my game against the higher-ranked players.  But I think this is a much harder match for me than playing someone like Rafter in Sydney because of Rafter's game plan and Moya's game plan, totally different.  Against Rafter, you always have a target.  That's probably in the past when I played better tennis against players like that.  Today, you know, he's not coming to the net much, so I've got to be positive and take the game to him.  That's what I did.  I think that makes it extra satisfying. 
 

Q.  Were you expecting a bigger opposition?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I mean, he's a very good player.  I won 6-1, 6-4.  I think that indicates a fairly one-sided match.  I don't think it was quite as easy as that.  He's beaten Sampras indoors, made the finals of the Australian  Open.  He's a very good player.  That's stating the obvious.  But I think it just goes to prove, if I play the tennis I'm capable of, I think I've got a good chance against, you know, any of the top players. 
 

Q.  Between Indian Wells and here, Tim, apart from practicing, were you doing anything different on the court?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I probably didn't -- when I lost at Indian Wells, I didn't practice for a few days.  Just played some golf, trained physically, but I didn't play a great deal.  I didn't think -- that wasn't what was necessary.  I think it was more important to think about what I was actually doing.  The way I played here, the way I played in Indian Wells is chalk and cheese.  Against Wayne Black, you know, totally different player.  I think it was a pretty stupid -- I was a pretty stupid player in that match.  I was playing to my weaknesses, which isn't too smart. 
 

Q.  Tim, could you talk a little bit about your relationship with Greg Rusedski, how you guys are getting along these days?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's been pretty well publicized that we had some problems recently.  I think that's been put behind us.  You know, we want to get on with our own games, as individuals.  Obviously next week with Davis Cup coming up, I  think that's high on both of our agendas, to get back into the World Group.  We'll both be very keen to go out there and do our job in Newcastle. 
 

Q.  Your next opponent could be Korda.  In Doha, picked up remarkably in that match against him, went to Australia, Sydney - with all the confidence.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Definitely. 
 

Q.  Yet he went on to win the Australian Open as well. How do you consider this situation, bearing in mind he could lose?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I suppose you have to wait and see who I do play.  But he plays Clavet, I think.  Sure, I think Korda is expected to win.  Likewise, I played a very good match in Doha.  I don't really have too many complaints.  I would have liked to have won the first set.  He served for it.  I just have to continue with what I'm doing; can't worry too much about the other things.  You know, I'm really pleased to be winning good matches again. 
 

Q.  When you won match point, you turned to David, showed slightly more emotion than you normally show when you've won a match point.  How good did that feel?
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's a great win, I think.  It's the circumstances.  Sometimes when you are winning a lot and  consistent, you take it for granted.  That hasn't been the case.  I think it's been my determination to work out of the difficult situation, difficult last five, six weeks. Now that I feel I'm coming out of it, it's very satisfying, but it's also a relief. 
 

Q.  Tim, on another subject:  Is there much talk in the locker room about Agassi's resurgence here?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think everybody's very aware of the way he's been playing.  He obviously had a poor year last year.  I practiced with him a couple of days ago, and he's just out there enjoying himself.  He's playing great tennis to go with it.  He's definitely for real. 
 

Q.  I mean, is the potential for the Sampras-Agassi rivalry to be renewed again?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's moving that way. 
 

Q.  Is that great for the game?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's very good for the game.  I think, for sure, he's one of the most popular players around the world.  It's not his place to be ranked outside the Top 100.  I think before long, he's 30, 31 in the world now, and I think before long, he'll be pushing back to the Top 10, Top 5. 
 

Q.  Do you think it will last or will he keep  interested?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I can't answer that. 
 

Q.  This is the third or fourth new Agassi.
 
TIM HENMAN:  You'll have to ask him that. 
 

Q.  Do you guys miss him when he's playing bad, when he's like 120?  Does the game miss him?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think for sure the game misses him. Yeah, he's one of the most popular.  He's an exciting player to watch.  I think, you know, if he does get back up, it will be good for the game. 
 

Q.  You said the difference between the way you played here and before was chalk and cheese.  So was the way you started today from the last match.  The way you started today, is that a continuation --
 
TIM HENMAN:  I wouldn't say I started badly.  Sure, I lost my first service game.  You know, you're allowed to do that from time to time.  You don't want it to happen all the time.  But I knew from that point on, I did play really well.  Likewise, it was an opportunity to try to jump on Moya early.  He can be sometimes a little slow starting. Played a very good first service game and attacked from the word go. 
 

Q.  A normal feeling day as opposed to a nervous one  last time?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yes.  I think that win against Stafford gave me a lot of confidence.  I'll build from it today. 
 

Q.  Tim, you mentioned you and Greg have kind of put your differences aside; you have gone ahead.  How do you feel about the prospect, as soon as you get here, to go to Davis Cup matches and working with him as a teammate?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Davis Cup is one of the highlights of the year.  I really enjoy it.  I think when you have two Top 20 players, we shouldn't really be where we are.  We should be in the World Group.  It's a good atmosphere.  Probably be a team of eight or nine of us up there.  We have a lot of fun before the tie, and hopefully we can come away with a win.  That's the most important thing. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT