NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 10, 1998
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TIM HENMAN:  You want to talk about the doubles (laughter)?


Q.  Singles, actually.

TIM HENMAN:  Thought it might be.


Q.  The disappointment.

TIM HENMAN:  Sure.  Exactly that.  I think my problem at the moment is that I couldn't have been playing any better in practice, but I'm not taking what I'm doing on the practice court on to the match court.


Q.  Why do you think that might be?

TIM HENMAN:  I think I could do with playing some more matches.  That's one of the reasons.  But I think it's probably more of a mental thing.


Q.  Slightly Catch-22?  If you want to play more matches --

TIM HENMAN:  -- you want to win.


Q.  But you're losing.

TIM HENMAN:  That's it. 


Q.  Chasing your own tail?

TIM HENMAN:  Exactly.  But like all these things, you know, there's no magic secret.  I have to keep working. I still never doubt my own ability.  I still know I've got all the shots.  On the match court, I wouldn't say I'm using it. I'm making life difficult for myself.


Q.  Do you think you got over that terrible first round problem, started to turn the corner a bit in London?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.  I still think it's frustrating the way I played today because I feel that, you know, in the last couple of weeks, I've really felt my game, the way I played in London, even losing to Kafelnikov, I think I should have won that match.  I think I played very well.  Likewise, to win with the form that I've had in London and practice, you know, lead up to this tournament, then play a pretty flat match, it's disappointing.  I feel like I've achieved a lot in the last few years, but I still feel I have so much more to learn.  I think this is probably the least enjoyable learning process.


Q.  Never had a slump like this before, have you?

TIM HENMAN:  Exactly.  I've had bad periods.  I think there's always been a reason, you know, whether it was  my elbow surgery or when I came back after I broke my ankle.  So, yeah, there again, it's not the first time it's happened to a tennis player; won't be the last.  I'm sure it won't be the last time I struggle in my career.  You have to find a way to dig yourself out of it.  I know that I'm on the upward.  I think, you know, when I was in Dubai and Antwerp, I think that was really the bottom of the pit because I was playing poorly.  But now I know I'm hitting the ball better.  But I've got to do it on the match court.


Q.  Does it surprise you when you know you've been practicing well, you go into a match like today, and it does go wrong?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think it does surprise you. You don't want it to happen.  You can look at a number of reasons.  I think my opponent probably has something to do with it.  I think he played a pretty good match.  But this is what it's all about.  You've got to find ways of doing it on the match court.  That's the bottom line.


Q.  He was clearly in good form because he played qualifying matches.  That's a good thing.

TIM HENMAN:  Definitely, definitely.  You only have to look at the way he's played.  In qualifying, he beat Javier Sanchez the first time, Lapentti second.  I think  those two matches stand him in good stead.


Q.  You are a better tennis player than he is.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, exactly.


Q.  Yet you lose to him.

TIM HENMAN:  That's the bottom line of it.  I won't shy away from that.  I know I am a better player.  I'm a better player than a lot of the people on the Tour, but I've got to learn -- I have to learn how to use it.  I wouldn't say at the moment I am using my capabilities, my strengths.  If anything, I have to understand how to use my strengths.


Q.  The mental thing, you said it was a mental thing rather than --

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.


Q.  How does one get out of that mental thing?

TIM HENMAN:  It's not the easiest thing to have to deal with.  You know, you look at my physical shape.  I think I'm probably in the best shape I've been in. Technically, I think there's nothing wrong with my game.  I mean, a better game plan.  I think today, I don't know, you watched the match, how many times did I come to the net?  Single digit number.


Q.  Well, not a lot.  When you did, you started to go at his backhand, make him play his backhand, instead of running around it.  It looked a different match briefly. 

TIM HENMAN:  At what stage did I start doing that? 6-3, 5-2?


Q.  Yeah, towards the end of the first set, but then at 5-2, you won two games.

TIM HENMAN:  Exactly.


Q.  Best tennis you played all day.

TIM HENMAN:  Exactly.  I think that's where I think my game plan needs to be looked at a little bit.  I think I'm capable of playing from the baseline and rallying with everyone.  But when a guy who is dictating things, then obviously, you don't want to keep running four feet behind the baseline from side to side.  That's when I've got to be able to change my tactic and start doing that (snapping fingers).  I waited too long today.


Q.  Is it a question you think maybe of not being able to take control or somehow not taking control of the match you ought to be in charge of?

TIM HENMAN:  A little bit.  I think maybe the first three games could have changed the whole outcome of the match.


Q.  You elected to receive, didn't you?

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.  Obviously I played a couple of good points early on.  Got my breakpoints, but didn't take  them.  Then I played a solid service game.


Q.  Double-faulted twice, and he was through, wasn't he?

TIM HENMAN:  Exactly.  I played a solid service game, had more breakpoints in the next game.  If anything, you know, I could have been up 3-Love, double break.


Q.  Absolutely.

TIM HENMAN:  As it was, I played one poor service game, went down 3-1.  You know as well as I do, that's the fine line of winning the big points and losing them.


Q.  So does it come down to a time to start worrying about it?

TIM HENMAN:  No.


Q.  You don't intend to worry?

TIM HENMAN:  No.  No magic secret, is there?


Q.  No, I don't think there is.  I'm asking what you think.

TIM HENMAN:  No.  I'll never -- that's not my nature.  When I've had my times when I've been winning a lot of matches and winning tournaments, you know, I'm not -- my feet don't leave the ground.  I'm first to admit I'm struggling a little bit, but I'm not going to hit panic buttons.  I'll just keep working at my game.  I will come out the other side.


Q.  Are you fit now, fitter now than you've ever been? 

TIM HENMAN:  Definitely.


Q.  You have the fitness and everything, but it's not coming out in match results, is it?

TIM HENMAN:  No, exactly.


Q.  I don't know, is it the right thing to be doing?

TIM HENMAN:  I mean, your fitness is paramount, isn't it?  You need it.


Q.  And stamina.

TIM HENMAN:  You need stamina, need to play matches in the heat.  I think my speed about the court is as good as it's ever been.  If I was slower, sure, that would be a worse thing.  I'll keep doing all the hard work off the court. I'll keep doing all the hard work on the court.  That's what I need to do.


Q.  When you get to that point, as happened this morning, you've missed your chances twice in two games to break him, what's the feeling that goes through your mind? Is it frustration?  Desperation?

TIM HENMAN:  No, not at all.  If anything, you want to take those points.  If you haven't, in those service games of his, I was playing good tennis, you know, you say to yourself, "I didn't take it that time, but I'll keep doing what I'm doing, try to create opportunities."  The more opportunities you create, the more  you'll -- the better chance you'll have of taking it.


Q.  Playing doubles with Goran?  How did that happen? Happen by accident?

TIM HENMAN:  No.  We asked each other in London.


Q.  Is it fun playing with him?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it is.  It's a chance to play some more matches.  I think we both need some matches.  I don't think he's probably played particularly well in the last few weeks either.


Q.  You both are kind of in the same boat at the moment, aren't you?

TIM HENMAN:  A little bit, yeah.  Where are you coming from?  I don't understand where you're coming from.


Q.  He's had a few first round losses as well.  Yet there's a hell of a lot more to him than losing in the first round of every tournament.

TIM HENMAN:  Sure.


Q.  Do you spark off each other?  How do you feel about that?

TIM HENMAN:  I think we both knew that we were going to be playing in Indian Wells, Key Biscayne.  We were going to need a wildcard to get into the tournament.  If Henman and Ivanisevic play together, I think we've got a good chance of getting a wildcard.  That's the first, I suppose, the first thing.  We got on pretty well off the court; no reason why we can't play well on the court.  I think it's pretty clear to everyone that the singles is more important.


Q.  When do you go to Key Biscayne?

TIM HENMAN:  I'm not too sure.  I think I'm staying and practice here.


Q.  Does the (inaudible) training thing come before that?

TIM HENMAN:  It's in between.  I'm not quite sure when it starts.  I think it would have started Thursday of this week.  I think we'll stay here, then we'll go to the camp at some stage, go on to Key Biscayne a couple days before the tournament.


Q.  It's difficult to rationalize things when you've gown out unexpectedly in a tournament.  What do you do now? Do you get your head down and work harder or do you sit back and get a bit of retrospect about it?

TIM HENMAN:  A bit of both.  You need a balance. Obviously I'm not going to go out and just kill myself on the practice courts.  I think the quality is what you want.  Sure, I'll be working, continue to work hard.  I need to continue to keep practicing.  Although I'm not playing successfully at the moment, I'm not doing anything different from when I've  played very well.  That's why it can be frustrating.


Q.  It's very frustrating for you, isn't it?

TIM HENMAN:  Sure, it is.  But if you believe if what you're doing, then you'll stick to it.


Q.  Of some players it's been said that they leave their best tennis on the practice court.  Do you think that's true in your case or not?

TIM HENMAN:  Was today.


Q.  You say you play well in practice.

TIM HENMAN:  Exactly, that was today.


Q.  I don't want to put words in your mouth, but is that something that might be said in your case?

TIM HENMAN:  Today, yes.  In general, no.  I think I've played enough good matches in my time to know how to play well.  I'm not doing it at the moment.  There's no magic secret.  I'm not going to wake up one morning and step out of bed and it's all going to be right again.  I've got to work at it.


Q.  Did you perhaps have to wait too long after having played Kafelnikov in London and Black here today, maybe ten days?

TIM HENMAN:  Maybe.  I think your first match after a little bit of a break can be a little bit difficult.  Having said that, what can I do about that?  There's nothing I can do about that.  That's one of those things you have to deal with.  It's just at the end of the day, you have to keep working at it.  It's as simple as that.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT