ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1997
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Tim, could you just give us a rundown of your day?

TIM HENMAN:  My day?  Got up about eight o'clock this morning, had breakfast.  I still wasn't quite a hundred percent sure of the final details of the day.  Then I was playing my match at 11:00.  I played Jamie.  I won that, played pretty well.  Then as soon as I finished that, did a press conference actually at 9:30 in the morning.  Stated pretty much what was going to be happening for the day.  I won the match.  Then basically I just had a quick shower and then I left straight for the airport.  Drove to Birmingham.  Took about an hour and a quarter, I think, to get to the airport.  Was driven onto the runway, which I thought was pretty cool.  Got the bags out, put them on the jet, off we went.  We arrived a couple of hours later at Hannover.
  

Q.  What time?

TIM HENMAN:  What time did we get in?  Half past  four, five o'clock, I think.  Five o'clock maybe.
  

Q.  Was that at the airport or here?

TIM HENMAN:  The airport.
  

Q.  Here about half an hour?

TIM HENMAN:  Half hour later, 5:30.  Arrived, went straight on, had a hit with David for half an hour, out to food, then was ready to go.
  

Q.  Pretty good day?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it is.  Yeah, not your average day.  It's not something that happens, you don't play in two tournaments in a week.  I have sort of mixed emotions. I feel like I sort of gate crashed this party.  You know, I don't really feel that I deserve to be here.  But, you know, I had the opportunity, and, once it was given to me, you know, I was there to take it.  It is slightly odd circumstances.  But, you know, that's not my fault.  So, you know, I was just very happy to come here and play in what is the World Championships.  I think it's plainly clear that next year I want to qualify, you know.
  

Q.  Do you have any idea what time you're playing tomorrow?

TIM HENMAN:  I think it's pretty early actually.
  

Q.  I think you're second match on, aren't you? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think so.  The BBC have got rugby in the afternoon.  I think they want me to kick things off.
  

Q.  Is that one o'clock, you think?

TIM HENMAN:  Sorry?
  

Q.  One o'clock?

TIM HENMAN:  No.  I think it will be before that a bit.  I'm not a hundred percent sure.  I think it's relatively early.
  

Q.  What sort of time is your plane back?

TIM HENMAN:  Whenever I want, JP (laughter).
  

Q.  I wasn't prime to ask that question.

TIM HENMAN:  No, no.  It's just I could get used to it.  It's pretty expensive, but it was a lot of fun, the journey.
  

Q.  Now that you're a jet setter, is Monte-Carlo part --

TIM HENMAN:  Definitely not.  I'm quite happy in London.  It's been a lot of fun.  What can I say?  It's not normal, is it?  I suppose it's normal for some people.  It's not normal for me to jump on a private jet.  It left when I arrived; I suppose it will leave when I'm ready again.  It's been a pretty weird day.  I've enjoyed it.  To come away having won four sets without dropping any is pretty satisfying. 
  

Q.  Did you take a helicopter to Birmingham?

TIM HENMAN:  No.
  

Q.  Citation?

TIM HENMAN:  Citation II.
  

Q.  Tell us, please, about the surface.  It was very much discussed at the beginning of the tournament, the new surface.

TIM HENMAN:  The new surface?  Felt pretty good to me.  Felt good to me.  It's obviously been a very fair surface.  It's fair to say last year was, you know, very, very fast, and dominated by the serve.  I think I've -- I've watched some of the tennis on TV.  I think it's been a very high standard.  It hasn't always been dictated by the serve.  You know, just when I arrived tonight, I watched some of the Bjorkman/Chang match.  You know, I think the tennis there was as good as it gets.
  

Q.  How would you compare the atmosphere in Telford and here?

TIM HENMAN:  It's different, that's for sure.  One is a World Championship, one is a national championship. You know, there's no reason to knock the Nationals.  I think it's a very well-run event.  You know, this is the biggest and the best.
  

Q.  Do you have any idea how many people were watching  you play?

TIM HENMAN:  It was pretty full.  It was quite full.  I don't think you get the same number in Telford that you got here.  I have no idea.  1,500 maybe.
  

Q.  What did you think when they started the Mexican wave or whatever they call it?

TIM HENMAN:  It's a great atmosphere.  The times when I was, you know, just taking in the scene of it.  I was obviously very relaxed.  I had nothing to lose before the match.  I think I found it a little bit awkward, actually, to get used to it to the single's court.  I haven't played on a single's court since Grand Slam Cup, Munich.  There were a couple occasions when I thought balls were going to go wide that actually dropped in.  I think the way I served was the key to the match.
  

Q.  When is the last time you served that well, that consistent?

TIM HENMAN:  This morning.  I did, actually.  I served really, really well this morning.  I think I served 18 or 19 aces.  That's the best I've served in a long while.  I wondered whether I had any in reserve.  I was hoping there would be a few big serves left in there.  There obviously was.  But, yeah, I think looking at the big picture, my  serve can be very dominant, but it can be very inconsistent.  That's something if I want to progress higher and if I want to make Hannover this time next year, it's something that has to be improved.
  

Q.  Have you decided which semifinal you're going for?

TIM HENMAN:  Pardon?
  

Q.  You've decided which semifinal you're going for?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I'll be heading back.  I don't actually know who I play.  I play the winner --
  

Q.  Danny won.

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.
  

Q.  Are you knackered?

TIM HENMAN:  I'm quite tired.  I'm not really so tired from today's exploits, but, you know, I think it is a year, a long year catching up on me.  I can definitely say that I'm looking forward to a couple weeks off.
  

Q.  What actual time did you get up this morning, Tim?

TIM HENMAN:  Eight.
  

Q.  Not too bad?

TIM HENMAN:  No.  I mean, today, it's been a different day, but it's been a lot of fun.  I wouldn't say it's been, you know, physically that draining.  But, yeah, I think with the amount of tennis that I have played, I do feel a little bit jaded.  In an atmosphere like that, it's always going to  give you a huge lift.
  

Q.  When you lost your service, was there any change in your attitude?

TIM HENMAN:  No.  I think I played a pretty bad game.  Then Yevgeny finally played a bad game on his own to give me back the break.  It was just a question of trying to continue with the way I've been playing.  I thought, you know, he was maybe going to start raising his game.  But fortunately, you know, I sort of got the momentum going back with me.  I hit some good serves at the right time, even if his service game at 4-All, I had a couple chances, couldn't take them.  Then I got one very good opportunity.  You know, I wasn't going to miss that one.
  

Q.  From an income standpoint, pretty fair day.  Any thoughts as to what you're going to do with the extra money?

TIM HENMAN:  I was asked in London, you know, about this.  It definitely wasn't a financial reason for coming here.  I said I'd make a donation.  I haven't decided, but I will be donating, you know, a portion -- I don't actually know for sure what I get.  I will be donating a portion.
  

Q.  65 grand.

TIM HENMAN:  So, I don't know what I'm going to be donating.  There to be a percentage that will go to a charity of my choice because I wanted to emphasize to people  that this wasn't just, you know, a money-making opportunity.  I wanted to come and be part of the World Championships.  It's obviously good experience.  If I come back in the future, I will know what it's all about.
  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT