EUROCARD OPEN
October 23, 1997
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Bad luck, Tim, I mean, really good effort. You must have thought you were reasonably
close to winning that? 
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, very close. I definitely struggled with -- I struggled with the
surroundings, really, to begin with in the first set. I couldn't sort of judge the
distance. I felt very enclosed in it. That is obviously a change with the stadium court.
But, then, you know, beginning in the second set, I already started to play some good
tennis and put him under pressure. And, in the second set, I obviously created
opportunities and I took them. In the third set, I created opportunities but I couldn't
take them. I think if you look at it, the nuts and bolts of it are on the two breakpoints
in the third that I had. He made two first serves on the one break he had. I was hitting
the second serve. 
 
Q. How long do you take to familiarize yourself with --
 
 TIM HENMAN: Actually after the first four, five games, I was 4-1 down, double break,
but I still wanted to keep that set lasting as long as possible just so I could get a
feel. I think the last couple of games -- first set, I felt comfortable; kind of got my
range off the ground. That is why I was sort of ready to go in the second set. That is
when I think I started to pick up my game. 
 
Q. It is different light?
 
 TIM HENMAN: It is a different light, but it was tough to just get a hold -- sort of
your peripheral vision is a little bit different. Obviously in the stadium, you have got
so much more space and suddenly, you know, you are in a very enclosed, concealed area. 
 
Q. Did you play out there in the doubles?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I did actually. 
 
Q. That didn't have any --
 
 TIM HENMAN: It is different. There is much more, sort of, very short, very short and
not so much movement. I mean, you are standing in one side of the court; not really doing
a great deal, but in the singles obviously there is a lot more to it. And I definitely
struggled. But, you know, I was pleased with the way I really picked up the game in the
second set. But it is a very frustrating match to lose after getting into a dogfight. 
 
Q. Is it also frustrating to lose not only because you played so well, but because the
draw was opening up? 
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah, sure. I mean, there is -- the draw opens up for a reason, so
obviously if it has opened up, the people all have beaten some good players. Haarhuis
beating Muster and Kiefer beat Rusedski, so obviously that is a section that has opened up
as far as ranking goes, but you know as well as do that they are -- everybody is good
players, so you still have to go out there and win those matches. But, yeah, no question,
it was a good opportunity. 
 
Q. The second set, probably onwards, was it largely -- you played by far the best
tennis of the week; you were actually picking up the level of your game?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Definitely. I was very pleased with the way I probably played 10, 11 games
of Ivanisevic, but I think, again, I have picked up my game from the second and third sets
quite considerably again. 
 
Q. You seem to be very into that match, you were animated?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Definitely. I think it is -- I broke a racket, but, you know, the world
will still go around. 
 
Q. Are you still maybe entertaining any thoughts of Hannover? Long, long shot as it is.
This probably would have done it in.
 
 TIM HENMAN: If I win the next two weeks I will probably make it fairly comfortably.
There is no reason why I can't. I think I am playing good enough tennis to, so --  
 
Q. In that last game you also had a good chance for yourself, he was Love-30 and you
had a let on the third point there. Did you feel even if he made that first volley, you
are back in business?
 
 TIM HENMAN: I made the first volley. Just so happened, the next one came at me at
probably 150 miles an hour, so it wasn't an easy shot to control and I missed it by about
an inch. At Love-30 I think it is pretty smart play to come in and put him under pressure
and make him hit two passing shots, so I think you have to give him credit there. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT