US OPEN
September 6, 2006
Justine Henin
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. Q. When you play someone that you've beaten so many times in a row, I think it's seven now, are there certain patterns to her game that you recognize that much more quickly to make it even easier for you to play?JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: We know each other pretty well. We played I think it was the twelfth time today that we played each other. There are no surprises in our games. Lindsay, I know her very well. You need to be aware on the first two, three shots, you need to be quick. You need to have good reaction because she tries to put the pressure very early during the point. I know if I can keep the rallies a little bit longer, then I can take the advantage. But need to play long. You need to try to move her. But it's not easy because she's hitting the ball very, very hard. I think it's the best Lindsay I've played when I did beat her in our last six meetings. It's been a good level in the match. I'm very happy with the way I did deal with the situation. It's been good.  Q. She said in her press conference that she felt that if she played any other player in the world today, the way she would have played, she would have won. She said that she thought you were the best tennis in the world right now. With all due respect to Amélie, and she paid due respect to Amélie, said that when forced to make a prediction, that she thought you would be the one to win this tournament. How does that make you feel?JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: That's a nice compliment, yes. But I just try to go step by step, you know. I don't want to look too far. Lindsay played a great match, I agree with that. She played an unbelievable level. I had to raise my level and be at my top to win today. I knew I could lose if I was just a little bit under this level. So she did push me a lot. It's been a very good test for me. Now, for the future in the tournament, I'm gonna have a tough semifinal, I think, even if it looks maybe easy on the paper when you look at the rankings. On the court it's a totally different story. Jankovic is playing great tennis this week. It's gonna be a tough, tough one for me. I just want to prefer to stay focused on that. And then we'll see what's gonna happen. In tennis, things can change very quickly. You just need to keep your goals in your mind and do what you have to do. My semifinal is my next goal right now. Q. As important as it is to not get ahead of yourself, look match after match after match, as you get to this stage, is it even more difficult not to look beyond the next opponent? JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: Maybe, because it's been the way I did build all my victories in the last few years. Everything I did build, I did it that way. I just looked match after match. Even if it's a first round or a semifinal, it doesn't change anything. But it's more coming from the outside. A lot of people are talking to me about that, which is normal. I understand that. But me, I just want to stay in my, you know, my way, my tunnel. That's the most important thing. I have a lot of respect for everyone I play. On Friday, it's gonna be a tough one. I don't want to talk about an eventual another final here, because I'm still very far away from that. Q. The rib, it is the rib, right?JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: Yeah, yeah, that's right. Q. What can you tell us about that. JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: I have this problem a little bit from the problems I had in my stomach in January in Australia. After that, it started to bother me a little bit. So we'll see. Yeah, it's something that I think is under control. It's been pretty painful today. The trainer did help a little bit. I'm sure it's gonna get better in two days. Q. You played Eastbourne, went to Wimbledon, played sensational tennis for six matches, then got a little tired in the final and lost it. JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: Uh hmm. Q. Here, you played New Haven, the US Open where the points are a little bit longer because you're not on grass, and now here we are again. Are you concerned you could be tired for the final if you get there?JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: I'm not in the final yet so I'm gonna try to be in my best shape on Friday, and then maybe I can answer your question.  Q. Carlos would prefer that you didn't play between the French Open and Wimbledon. Will he get his way next year?JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: Well, I'm not quite sure I will go another way. Last year, I was injured. Coming in a Grand Slam, especially on this kind of surface, on grass court, without any match, I think it's tough, especially for me. I need some matches to get in the good rhythm. I would do it the same way. My last two matches in Eastbourne took me a lot of energy, everything in three sets. I'm a real fighter, I would never say I'm not gonna push myself too hard because I know a Grand Slam is coming next week. So that's in my personality. I will never change. I am pretty proud of it. Q. You have the veto power. JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: All right. FastScripts by ASAP Sports... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT