EUROCARD OPEN
October 22, 1997
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Well, it started bad and things got better as it went on.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I think the whole sort of tension in both of our minds comes from the
first game because, you know, I start off serving - and I don't know how many deuces - and
it seems like I played a pretty good game; made a hell of a lot more first serves than I
started off with yesterday. He was really on to his returns and on to my serve. And then,
you know, breaks me first game and I sit down. I sit down at the change of ends and was
gone a bit mentally and I lost my serve. Against Ivanisevic, that is quite often. That is
the set gone. So, there is me, you know, trying to contain myself. Fortunately, I was able
to do that. Then his first service game, I obviously put a lot of balls -- hit some good
returns and I break back, and then there is a role-reversal right there. He is the one now
who has had a good opportunity to begin with; now we are back on level terms. But, I think
that is where his frustration came from. Throughout the first set, I was -- I think I was
making a lot of balls -- he was obviously having trouble with his serves, but a lot of his
serves did go in. I was, you know, returning with interest. And, obviously, I served a lot
better.

Q. When you see him muttering to himself, do you have to adjust to that at first or do
you actually think: "Oh, good"?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I suppose it is part of your game plan when you play Goran. You talk
about his serve and the way you have got to hold on to your serve. But one thing you can't
do is you don't want to be losing out a mental battle. You don't want to be the one going
crazy because we all know he is capable of doing that. And, so that is why, even though I
lost my serve first game, I didn't, you know -- there is a long way to go obviously. So, I
was able to turn things around in the next game. And then, you know, once I could see that
he was beginning to be a little bit fragile mentally, then you knew this was where there
may be an opportunity. And, I think I took it. So, you know, even though I think at a set
and 2-Love he stopped, I feel pretty comfortable about my chances.

Q. What did he say at the net as you walked off afterwards?

TIM HENMAN: Nothing. You saw as much as I did. He has had problems with his shoulder
and arm last week and that is pretty much what I think he will say.

Q. I was going to say how aware were you of the fact that he had this problem that he
was still fretting about?

TIM HENMAN: I, obviously -- everybody saw that he pulled out. I saw those results. He
pulled out in the semis. But, having said that, you know, I saw quite a few serves fly
past me over 200 kilometers an hour. But, unless if he hit one shot and then something
suddenly had gone, then that is a different situation.

Q. What about your illness; was that better today?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it is getting better, yeah. Yeah, it is not -- I may not sound 100%,
but I feel 100%, so, hopefully that won't cause me any problems.

Q. He seemed pretty strong towards the end of the first set.

TIM HENMAN: I can speculate as much as you'd like, but you are going to have to ask him
that. That is what I said, I don't think -- up until the last couple of points, serves
were still flying down quickly. As I said, if he has hit one forehand, I think that he
was, you know, complaining about -- maybe he has actually done something with one shot;
whether he snapped something. You would have to ask him that. You have to wait and see. I
am sure he will go and see someone about it.

Q. Was it a bit off-putting, the knowledge in the back of your head that this wasn't
going to be a maybe straight fight?

TIM HENMAN: You do. You know it is a good sign, I suppose, if he does start, you know,
muttering and complaining himself because I should think that is when you are doing
something right and I think I was. He was frustrated with his serve. I don't think he was
making as many first serves as he would have liked. When he did, I was returning all of
them. And that is where he can get frustrated.

Q. You got quite a good record of against him. You have played him twice and set him
off his rocker.

TIM HENMAN: Yeah, he wasn't that pleased in Sidney either. Yeah, they have both been
pretty entertaining matches.

Q. When he is behaving like that is there a problem with trying to focus; is it
difficult for you?

TIM HENMAN: Not easy. Likewise, you have obviously got him in a good situation. You
want to take advantage. You still want to concentrate on your game. You don't want to
start pushing the ball in because he does have that sort of mentality, when he is playing
in that state, he is just going to go for everything and you also hope that he doesn't
start going in. But, for the eleven games that we played, I think eleven of them were
good. I didn't play a particularly bad first game.

Q. Conversely, when you are playing him, you always know there is a chance that he is
going to do something crazy anyway?

TIM HENMAN: Yeah. You go on with that hope in your mind.

Q. Bonus points are up for grabs this week.

TIM HENMAN: It all helps. In the last three events, these two weeks really are where
the points are up for grabs. Everybody is here. All the bonus points are available and
there is definitely quite a few bonus points up for grabs.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT