US OPEN
August 29, 1997
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Tim, how disappointing is this? What happened out there today? 
 
 TIM HENMAN: Not a lot. I think you can look at it both sides. If you look at his side
of the court, I think he played a great match, played very, very well, just didn't let me
play the way I wanted to. But, you know, there again, my match was poor. I think I never
really let myself get into it. He was up early breaks in all three sets. 
 
Q. How can you explain the transformation in your game from the first round?
 
 TIM HENMAN: You know, when I'm good, I'm great; when I'm bad, I'm awful. You know,
that's something I need to learn to try, when things aren't going well, where I need to
try and be more resilient and find ways to dig myself out of that. But obviously, they are
two contrasting styles of play. It's very easy to play someone like Muster when your game
plan is pretty much made up for you just by the style he plays. Against Ferreira, if I'm
attacking him like I try to do against Muster, he's returning a lot better. You know, I
think he was hitting some very good passing shots. If I want to try and stay at the
baseline, be a little bit more patient, he's going to take the initiative and hit some
winners, come to the net and finish the points off at the net. I think it's all credit to
him. 
 
Q. Tim, what was the reason you needed to leave the court?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Speak to my coach. 
 
Q. After game one?
 
 TIM HENMAN: After game one, I needed the loo. 
 
Q. How different is it when you come to New York, any other Grand Slam other than
Wimbledon, the media attention for you?
 
 TIM HENMAN: It's always going to be more intense at Wimbledon. But, you know, that's
inevitable. 
 
Q. Presumably when you did meet your coach, he didn't say, "Well played. Keep it
up"?
 
 TIM HENMAN: No, I don't think so. You know, at that stage, we basically said I've just
got to go for it. There's no point in just letting him run away with it. I had to just try
and hang in there and give myself one more chance. I suppose, you know, 5-4 in the last
set, serving for it to get to deuce, it's a half chance. Not really a great chance, is it?
I think I had one breakpoint in the whole match. 
 
Q. How can you explain a performance like that after 48 hours --
 
 TIM HENMAN: I've answered that question already. 
 
Q. I apologize.
 
 TIM HENMAN: I said when I'm good, I'm great; when I'm bad, I'm awful. You know, that is
something that, you know, is unfortunate. There's been the good sides, because I've had
great tournaments this year. I played a great match whenever it was, Wednesday. I think
I've had too many highs and lows. Both David and I are definitely aware of that. It's not
something we're just going to let continue. You know, I still feel the way I've played
since my loss in Cincinnati, I feel that I definitely moved my game in the right
direction. It's things like this now that I have to cut out. 
 
Q. Was there a kind of feeling you had going onto the court, was that a little bit
similar to Wimbledon, where you had a huge win before, try to get yourself up again?
 
 TIM HENMAN: It's not a question of, you know, getting one's self up again. At Wimbledon
I'm playing quarterfinals of the Grand Slam; here I'm playing second round of a Grand Slam
after beating a Top 5 player. So, you know, I'm very fresh, very confident with the way
I'm playing. But I think it's the contrasting styles, if you're comparing the two matches
that I struggled with the most. 
 
Q. Ferreira is a player who had a terrific summer, last summer, struggled this year. Do
you allow yourself to think about, you know, that going into this match, that maybe he's
vulnerable because of the kind of year he's had?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah. I mean, if you look at his ranking, 55, whatever he is, that's
definitely not where he belongs. He's been in the Top 10 for, you know, a long, long time.
Obviously I think the way he's playing now, he hasn't had a good year. But I think if you
look at the way he's played more recently, he's definitely started to turn that around. I
think he made semifinals in Indianapolis; he lost a three-set match to Chang in
Cincinnati. I think I wouldn't be surprised now if he has a good run. He plays the winner
of Gimelstob and Gustafsson. Maybe he'll play Woodforde, Agassi, someone like that. It's a
good opportunity for him. I think he's definitely ready to take that. Only time will tell.
 
 
Q. Did you feel at all in any way below par when you walked out on court today?
 
 TIM HENMAN: No. I can't have any complaints. You know, I had a rest day from matches
yesterday, practiced. Today I've gone through the same routine. So, you know, there's
nothing changed behind the scenes, if you like. It was a different scenario on the court. 
 
Q. Tim, what did you feel that you couldn't do today or that he didn't allow you to do
today that perhaps happened in Ostrava?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Ostrava is a different surface, obviously. 
 
Q. What about Toronto last time?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Toronto, it was a similar type of match. I think he was the one dictating
things. I think today I didn't serve as well as I would have liked. You know, a lot of the
times when I was hitting good serves, he was hitting a lot of very aggressive returns. You
know, that's putting me under pressure. On a given day when you're struggling anyway with
your own game, that's obviously making life very difficult. You know, particularly on his
own serve. You make the first serve. You put the return in play. Suddenly, he's dictating
things with his forehand. 
 
Q. Did you take any notice of his rather prominent bandage?
 
 TIM HENMAN: No. He's worn that since the French. I don't think he's having a problem
with that. 
 
Q. Accepting that he played very well, do you still have a sense of frustration that
you haven't gotten through?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Yeah. Nothing frustrates me more than to have given myself an opportunity
in the draw, having had a very good win, then not being able to take full advantage of it.
You know, having said that, it's the luck of the draw, isn't it? You know, sometimes you
do open up a draw slightly more when you have a win like that. To play Ferreira is
obviously not an easy match, but it's still a match I definitely believe I could have won.
Yeah, it's very, very disappointing. 
 
Q. What's your plan now? When will your next tournament be?
 
 TIM HENMAN: Might be the week after this tournament's finished. 
 
Q. But your actual schedule, your sort of plan? What's the first indoor?
 
 TIM HENMAN: It will probably be Basel. I still think, you know, I'm going to have a
very busy schedule for the rest of the year. I probably haven't played as many tournaments
as maybe I've been used to. I know at the end of the year I've got the opportunity to play
a lot of the big indoor tournaments, which is obviously a continuation of the hard, which
is a good surface for me. You know, those are definite opportunities to finish the year
strongly. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT