NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 10, 1997
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.   How long do you think you will be out Tim?

TIM HENMAN:  Hopefully I probably won't play until Saturday or Sunday of this week, so, five or six days, hopefully, if the inflammation goes down.  We just have to wait and see.  But, it is fortunate that Lipton doesn't start until next Thursday and obviously I think I will have a "bye" in the first round, so that will give me an extra day.  But, hopefully, I will be playing again by then.


Q.   Has this happened before? 

TIM HENMAN:  Happened in July 1994.  I had the same problem.  Basically, it is the nerves, that is your funny bone, and it is basically pretty inflamed and that is what gives me a sharp pain if I try and play.  So, I think the doctors -- you know, the doctors advised me that I just take a few days rest.


Q.   Outside of the injury, are you hitting your personal goals now week-to-week this year?

TIM HENMAN:  I wouldn't say week-to-week.  I don't know -- I don't know whether you can work on things on such a short-term basis, but definitely the way the year started, I don't think I could have asked for too much more.  It is disappointing that I am not able to play this week being the first Super 9 of the year and obviously one of the biggest tournaments of the year.  But, I am sure there will be many more in my career.  So, I think it is important that I do get my health back before worrying about playing again.


Q.   What are some of your on-court goals meaning stroke production; meaning some of the things that you have to do to get top 10 or 5?

TIM HENMAN:  I should continue to still be aggressive.  I think this year; especially in Australia, I came forward.  I serve and volleyed a lot more and that is definitely -- I will continue to work  on that.  I think it is an area that has definitely improved.  But I think it can improve quite substantially more.


Q.   Does it hurt when you are not doing something or are you just holding --

TIM HENMAN:  Oh, no.  I am not holding my elbow, no.  If I try and play then, yeah, it is pretty sore.


Q.   When do you think you will be picking up a racket again?

TIM HENMAN:  Sunday of this week.


Q.   That will be the first time?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think so.  I don't see any reason why there is a need to get back on the court before that.  I can give it as much rest as it needs and if I start playing on Sunday, it is still not quite right; then I will continue to rest.  So, you know, hopefully it will have all the rest that it needs.


Q.   Are you staying here through the week?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.


Q.   Good place to rest?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it is.  Yeah.  And, we have got one of our fitness trainers out here.  So I still think there will be plenty for me to do.  It will  just mean not actually hitting tennis balls.


Q.   Tim, do you feel more comfortable playing at home or do you like playing on the road more, given --

TIM HENMAN:  I think they both have their advantages.  You know, playing at home is normally at Wimbledon and it is definitely the most important tournament of the year for me and I think for a lot of players it is probably the most prestigious.  And, you know, with the home support, obviously gives you a great boost.  And, having said that, it can be nice to be away from home where you are probably not so much the center of attention and you are able to just concentrate on what you are doing and not worry about any sort of outside influences.  But, I think I have shown that I can play well at home and I can play well when I am on the road.


Q.   Do you feel much more like a, quote unquote, normal person, say, when you are in the states and you can maybe walk around the states without people saying, "Hey, it is Tim Henman?"

TIM HENMAN:  It is different when I am in London or England.  I think there is probably more attention, but I don't think that has, you know, a great effect on me.  So, you know, I'd like to think that I am pretty normal wherever I am. 


Q.   I am sure you have heard this question many times, but you have quite an impressive tennis lineage going way back.  When you were young did you feel like you were born to play tennis?

TIM HENMAN:  Not at all.  I am aware of the background that I have and I think it is probably something the likes of yourselves would focus a great deal more on.  But, that is just the way it is.  There is nothing I can do about that.  But, it is definitely not the reason why I played the game.


Q.   So you weren't knocking winners off the first time you had a racket put in your hand?

TIM HENMAN:  No, probably not.


Q.   Would you be doing any touristic things while you are here?

TIM HENMAN: It is a pity, I'd like to be playing some golf with obviously so many different golf courses around.  That is obviously not going to be possible.  So, that adds to the frustration, but I am sure I will get another chance, you know, (A) to play golf and (B) to be in Indian Wells.


Q.   With your success and with Rusedski do you think, in general, the level of British tennis is coming up or do you think that you and Rusedski might be kind of rare birds out there right now? 

TIM HENMAN:  I still think we are probably a little bit rare, but, you know, I definitely feel the standards are improving.  And, role models is something that we haven't had in the past so hopefully if we can both be, you know, an influence to the younger generation then I had think that can only be a good thing the more and more kids you can get playing the game and excited about tennis, the better.

TIM HENMAN:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT