XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
August 2, 1996
Neil Broad
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Thoughts and comparisons with Wimbledon?

TIM HENMAN:  It's been a great week.  Both huge highlights in my career.  With Wimbledon you'll find much in individual, but here it's doubles, as well, so there's two of us.  And you're very much representing your country.  And it's been a really, really enjoyable experience, and hopefully one that I experience again.


Q.  Did you really believe at the start of the tournament that you could be playing for the gold medal?

NEIL BROAD:  I guess we probably didn't, but we thought we could beat a lot of teams, which we did, we beat some good teams on the way.  So I guess we didn't -- we definitely would have taken a silver before the week started.

TIM HENMAN:  I think coming in we never played great before. We didn't play so well in Davis Cup.  But we're both good enough players that we felt if we stringed some things together then we could beat some teams.  I think we've had a good week.


Q.  Have you played much, just the Davis Cup in Slovakia was the first time?

TIM HENMAN:  And this is the last time.  (Laughter.)


Q.  Do you mean that?

TIM HENMAN:  Of course not.  I'm sure we'll be playing again. After the way we've played this week, hopefully there will be many more opportunities. I don't know if he feels the same way.


Q.  The Czechs, they were very difficult matches, and you've come through there.  Did you feel in your heart of hearts that you could beat the Australians?

TIM HENMAN:  Sure.  The standard of play is that we did beat some good teams.  We knew it wasn't going to be easy, but coming into the match if we could have played maybe as well as we had done in some of those matches we would have had a good chance, but we didn't play as well as we liked, but maybe we weren't allowed to play that sort of tennis.


Q.  Was that better experience as compared to your doubles pairing inexperience?

NEIL BROAD:  You look at their record and it's unbelievable. We knew we had to play well today to win.  We didn't play that well.  They crush you if you don't play well against them.  They're very solid.


Q.  Is it a disappointment at the moment that you feel or more a sense of achievement?

TIM HENMAN:  I think that describes it well.  We're disappointed.  We went out in the final today believing we could win gold.  We ended up with silver, but I think that's a very good achievement, something we've both been very proud of.


Q.  Not a bad way to finish your first Games.

TIM HENMAN:  No, it's been great.


Q.  U.S. Open for both of you?

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.  We're both playing Cincinnati next week, Indianapolis, Toronto for me after that and then U.S. Open.


Q.  It never ends, does it?

TIM HENMAN:  No, it's an ongoing thing.


Q.  Congratulations, anyhow, it was a super performance.

TIM HENMAN:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT