XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 25, 1996
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Can you just explain in laymen's terms what you thought went wrong?
 
TIM HENMAN:   I couldn't really think at the end of the day I did anything wrong, I don't think.  I thought I played a pretty good match.  When a match is 7-6, 7-6, it boils down to a couple of key points here and there.  And obviously I had a set point in the first set and probably should have made the forehand approach, but I missed it.  And then in the second set, you know, he is the one that had probably a lot more opportunities.  But I was able to hang in there.  And, again, you know, get to the tiebreak is anyone's ballgame.  But to his credit, he played two good tiebreaks. 
 

Q. The forehand let you down on a couple of quite important shots, letting those sort of half court forehand --
 
TIM HENMAN:   I missed a few.  That is always going to happen, that you are going to miss, you know.  I think having said that, I still played a lot of good forehands.  I thought I hit the ball well from the baseline, but, as you say, those -- the set point especially. 
 

Q. Afraid to overhit them, were you? 
 
TIM HENMAN:   It is shots that I wouldn't -- I don't want to miss.  And I wouldn't expect to miss them on set point, but these things happen.  So that is basically the crux of the match, really. 
 

Q. How has the overall experience been for you?
 
TIM HENMAN:   It has been very enjoyable.  I would have obviously liked to have gone further in the tournament. Just being part of the Olympics has been very special, and I definitely like to be a part of it again. 
 

Q. Are you to play the doubles?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, we got to play doubles tomorrow, I think.  Third match. 
 

Q. When you go from here, what is your next tournament?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Cincinnati.  I am going to play Cincinnati, Indianapolis, Toronto and then the U.S. Open. 
 

Q. This will help you for the U.S. Open?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, it is a learning process.  It is all -- it is an experience that I am sure I will be able to look back on very positively.  As I said, I think I am still pretty pleased with the way I am playing, so it stands me in good stead for the rest of the summer. 
 

Q. 7-6, 7-6 it is not a morale crusher.
 
TIM HENMAN:   It is very close running.  In a way it could have been similar to my match against Matsuoka.  He had the set points in the first set, but I was able to take my  opportunities.  But, you know, in the second set, against him I was able to run away with it.  But then I was the one that was down in the second, but was able to hang in there and try and force it to a third set. 
 

Q. (Inaudible.)
 
TIM HENMAN:   It is never over until the last point is won. 
 

Q. You saved four matchpoints.
 
TIM HENMAN:   That is right. 
 

Q. Which takes a bit of nerve.
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, you can't -- it just shows against Kafelnikov at Wimbledon obviously I won four matchpoints down; you still have to believe that you have a chance. 
 

Q. Do you think between everybody surrounding Wimbledon and everything you have been somewhat overburdened by excessive expectations for where you are at the moment in your state of development?
 
TIM HENMAN:   I think obviously with what I achieved at Wimbledon, people are probably expecting a lot of me, but it is not something I focus on.  Hopefully, you know, at the end of the day I will live up to peoples' expectations and I still think I have got a lot of improving to do, so that is the aim. 
 

Q. When is the U.S. Open?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Last week in August first week in September.  
 

Q. You won't be home before then?
 
TIM HENMAN:   No. 
 

Q. You are going to stay through the Olympics and watch it all?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah. 
 

Q. Be in the Village and do the ceremony at the end?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, it would be great.  Looking forward to it. 
 

Q. Watch some other stuff?
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, I have watched the swimming. 
 

Q. Hopefully you will be in the doubles final.
 
TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, that is the thing we can concentrate on now. You know, hopefully we can play well there. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT