XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 23, 1996
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was it?

TIM HENMAN:   I think my first real hardcourt match since the grass and I was pretty happy the way I played.  The first set, I think, was pretty crucial in the heat and so I was pleased to come through.  I felt comfortable in the second.


Q. How did the weather equal with other tournaments?

TIM HENMAN:   It is hotter.  It is humid as well.  We play in this pretty much every summer, though, when we come to the States.  So pretty much getting used to it.  So hopefully I won't have any problems.


Q. It seemed the crucial moment of the match was the overrule in your favor at set point down.  Did you feel that might have been a turning point?

TIM HENMAN:   Not exactly.  It is obviously a big point, but, you know, I was serving well.  So even though I was down breakpoints, which was set points, I still felt I was -- you know, I still had a chance to force it into a tiebreaker once I did do that.  So I think I did play a good tiebreak.


Q. It was set point down.  I mean, you would have been facing a real struggle in that heat, after you got through that game, and won the tiebreak, did you really then --

TIM HENMAN:   I think in the heat, when it is a very close set, I think it is important to make the extra effort to  try and win it.  It is never easy coming back from a set down, but, you know, I think that sort of magnified in the heat.


Q. Did you feel at the end of the match that you were hitting the ball much more convincing?

TIM HENMAN:   I think I still played a good first set.  I had no complaints at all.  I was hitting the ball well.  I think I definitely did improve in the second set.  So it is a pleasing way to start.


Q. Are you enjoying, Tim, being part of the British team, being part of the whole sort of Olympics?

TIM HENMAN:   Very much some.  It is something that tennis pros aren't really used to.  And being my first Olympics, it is a new experience.  And it is a great atmosphere mixing with athletes from all different sports.  I think there is a real buzz about it.  It is very positive.


Q. Do you think you are learning anything from any of the other athletes?

TIM HENMAN:   Sure.  You learn different things about their preparation, maybe about different training techniques and generally meeting, you know, a lot of different people.


Q. Is that kind of giving you an extra incentive?

TIM HENMAN:   I think so.  I don't think you really need any extra incentive when you are playing the Olympics, but there is a very positive atmosphere, I think, that rubs off on anybody. 


Q. Has there been a downing mood, though?  We haven't done well the first three days; it is important to get a few successes for the rest of the team.

TIM HENMAN:   I don't know about that.  I think there have been a lot of very good performances.  Obviously, you know, everyone is striving to obtain medals, but I am sure they will come.


Q. Do you feel additional pressure now because you are a household name and you are coming into this event, people are looking at you to do that bit extra?

TIM HENMAN:   I think with my performance at Wimbledon, obviously, probably people will begin to expect more of me.  But, you know, I have always said that I have just got to concentrate on my tennis, and not let that affect me.  So if I can continue, you know, playing the way I am, then all the better.


Q. Did you think it would be different playing on the center court here, you know, a marked difference from playing on outside --

TIM HENMAN:   It is still a pretty nice court to play in.  Obviously, it is not as big as Center Court, but, you know, it is still a good atmosphere.  I think we had a lot of very good support.  Having said that, it is not something that concerns me.  As long as it is a tennis court with, you know, lines and normal size, I don't really mind where I play. 


Q. What do you think about the support?  You got a lot of Brits out here that came here to see you today.

TIM HENMAN:   Yeah, I think it is nice.  I have very much enjoyed their support and hopefully they enjoyed watching me, so I think we worked well today.


Q. There has been a lot said about transportation problems.  Did you have any getting you here?

TIM HENMAN:  No, our transport has been fine. Obviously I have heard about the problems with the rowers, but no, it runs very smoothly for the tennis players, I think.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT