RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 14, 1995
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Nice win, I guess?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, obviously, you know, it was a bonus to get a wildcard here and so, you know, I was very happy to take the opportunity, so -- very pleased.


Q.  Fairly long match.  How much of a factor was the heat?

TIM HENMAN:  Obviously, you know, it is unbelievably hot out there. You know, it obviously is the same for both of you.  It is just a question of trying to conserve your energy as much as possible and try and make your opponent do a little bit more running than you are, but yeah, it is very hot.


Q.  You were able to convert on all six breakpoints.  Did you see that as the key --

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think it was something that I was happy with.  I did -- once I got my chances, you know, most of the time I was able to take them and  I think obviously the 5-All game in the third set, you know, he had some breakpoints on my serve; fortunately, for me, he wasn't able to take those opportunities, so, you know, I was pleased with the way I took my chances.


Q.  I know you were pleased to get a wildcard. Maybe you thought maybe it wasn't that favorable a draw when you first saw it.

TIM HENMAN:  You know, obviously, you know, he was a seeded player, so, you know, if you look at it rankingwise, I suppose it wasn't the best draw, but, you know, everybody plays very well at this level, so there is no easy matches.  So you just have to concentrate on your own game and try and, you know, try and do your best, so, you know, I was very happy with the way I played.


Q.  Can you talk a little bit about Wimbledon, the sort of unwanted attention from that inadvertent hit....

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, you know, it was obviously a difficult time, but, you know, accidents happen and it is something that, you know, I had to deal with.  I had to learn from it.  And I think I have done that. So, you know, I have put that behind me, you know, it is history now, so I have just got to concentrate on my tennis and make sure things like that don't happen  again.


Q.  Was it something that you think you maybe even a couple of years down the road you will be able to smile about it?

TIM HENMAN:  I think -- yeah, I think I have already been able to smile about it and I think that is what you got to do to be able to accept it.  Obviously, you know, it was unfortunate and it is something that obviously I wouldn't have wanted to happen, but as I said, you know, you have to deal with it as best you can and I think, you know, after a few days when things are settled down, I think it very much sort of passed over and was forgotten about.

TIM HENMAN:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT