US OPEN
August 30, 2006
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: Questions for Tim. Q. What did you think of that, Tim? TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it's obviously never has been the easiest match, and today was no different. I think the first set was going to be important. You know, that was probably the best set of quality tennis. Greg obviously started really well, did a good job to get back into it. Then to get the tiebreak, I felt comfortable after that. I was able to play some good tennis. It was a good start for me. Q. Did you sense that Greg was struggling a little bit with his movement?TIM HENMAN: Yeah, you know, in the first set, he's serving that well, he doesn't have to you know, he's getting forward a lot more. I think as he was getting you know, as he loses a little bit of strength in his hip he wasn't coming forward so much. I can exploit that a little bit more. Yeah, I think as the match wore on, he was obviously getting a bit sore. Q. He was in here telling us that Ukraine will probably be it just because of the hip. Will it be sad to wave him good bye?TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it is. You know, we've been linked for such a long time. You know, I wouldn't I wouldn't say that we've been best of friends, but I wouldn't say we've been enemies. I think that's something that was probably a little bit, you know, built up for the rivalry. Yeah, I think we've impacted each other's careers in a big, big way. I think for the big part for the better. I think we've definitely improved each other. We've strived to be better than each other. I think that's where we've played a big part in each other's careers. If he wasn't able to continue, then, yeah, it would be strange to be playing tournaments without him. Q. Does it make you think, There goes Greg. Could I be... TIM HENMAN: I'm not getting any younger. You know, his trials and tribulations are irrelevant to me. I know what my issues are and what I'm trying to deal with with my back and different things. That's the focus of attention for me. It doesn't impact it doesn't really have a bearing on any decisions that I would have. You know, I have to keep working the way I have been. Q. How was the back today? TIM HENMAN: Back was very good, yeah. I felt like I was moving pretty well on the whole. I served well and aggressively. It was, I think, probably as good as it's been this summer. Long may that continue. Q. Roger again. Did your heart sink when you looked at the draw?TIM HENMAN: Not really. It's as tough a test as you can have. But it depends which way you want to look at it. Do you want to look at it as a tough draw or a great opportunity? I was watching the golf the other day. One of the golfers said, Tiger Woods is the best in the world, but he's beatable. I think that's the same with Roger. He is the best in the world, but you need things to go your way. You hope he has a bit of an off day. You play well and take your chances and whatnot. Q. It happened a couple weeks ago. TIM HENMAN: Absolutely. You know, I'll go out there, play my game. I certainly don't feel any pressure. I'll enjoy it. Q. Fearlessness of youth rather than you having sort of built up with him being the No. 1 for so long. TIM HENMAN: Fearless of youth? Is that implying I'm young? Q. No. TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I don't know. I mean, I've played him enough times. It's a bit like Greg. When I play Greg, it's not an easy match because of the circumstances. But once you've been through it eight or ten times, it doesn't have that big a bearing. I think likewise with Roger. He is the best in the world and maybe one of the best ever, but it doesn't really faze me a great deal. I sort of know the style that I can have some impact, or try and have an impact in the match. You know, if I can do that consistently and he beats me, then that's the way I'd like it to be. I don't want to be out there playing not playing my game, and obviously just letting him dictate. Q. Will you just ignore what happened in Wimbledon? TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I mean, it was a pretty ordinary day for me. Roger was playing fantastic tennis, as he did for the fortnight. You know, the conditions are actually a lot better here. It's a much quicker court, quicker balls. That's in my favor. Whether it has any bearing on the outcome, we'll just have to wait and see. Q. Greg thought it was slow. TIM HENMAN: We all know what opinions are like, don't we (smiling)? I think he'd be one of the few to say it was slow. Q. You mentioned Tiger Woods. It strikes me, so many golfers that go head to head with him are beaten before they tee off. TIM HENMAN: Does seem that way. Q. They don't believe they can beat him. TIM HENMAN: Yeah, it's difficult. I mean, I can't really comment for the golfers. You know, I've played him on a number of occasions. Sure, I haven't beaten him for a while. I've beaten him when he was best in the world, when he was ranked No. 1. I've beaten him on quite a few other occasions. That definitely helps. I've done it before. I'd like to think I can do it again. But don't get me wrong, I'm under no illusions. It's the toughest test in tennis. As I said, I might not get too many opportunities playing on Ashe again. I'm going to enjoy it. Q. Is it the toughest test in tennis at the moment? You played Rafa on clay. TIM HENMAN: Yeah, no. I'd much rather play Rafa than Roger, if I'm honest. In those conditions in Rome, it was probably the worst conditions I could have on clay. I still really feel like, you know, playing my style you can have some impact against Rafa. But sometimes against Roger, you know, you play your best shots and it doesn't make much difference. As I said, I am going to be looking forward to it. I felt good physically today, so hopefully that's going to continue. Q. Safin was asked why he thought he hadn't lived up to expectations since 2000. He said that he had to play in the era of Roger Federer. Some players get into the heads of the competitors they play against. Comment on a player who is so dominant like Roger. Has that affected you when you've had to face him in the past?TIM HENMAN: I think it's a slightly different scenario because in tennis Roger can impact he can impact your match, whereas in golf, playing with Tiger Woods, he shouldn't impact your game because he can't hit your ball or whatever. He obviously is able to have an impact mentally on the players. It would seem that way. Yeah, playing against Federer, he's got such a good all around game, there's very few areas you really feel you can exploit. Obviously, Nadal being a lefty, his forehand, he can really get the ball up high on Roger's backhand. That's probably one area he's perhaps less strong. You just have to try and do a good job of playing the points the way that you want to. As I said, if he's hitting forehand winners, passing shots, sometimes there isn't so much you can do about it. You still have to try and play to your strengths and execute your game plan as best you can. Q. How much of a battle is it to not let him get into your head?TIM HENMAN: It can be. If you're hitting good shots and he's hitting winners, it's easy to suddenly start saying, I need to play better than that. That's when you can start making unforced errors and then he doesn't have to hit the shots. But if you keep playing your game and he's better than that, then I don't think you can can't really argue. You've gone out there and played as well as you can. He's better. You shake his hand and say, Too good. Q. Would it be stretching to say you may take some inspiration from Andy Murray?TIM HENMAN: It's good to see that he can lose on hard courts (smiling). I don't think that match will have much bearing on ours. Q. How many shots would you ask Tiger for? TIM HENMAN: He would have to use one club, and it would have to be a putter. FastScripts by ASAP Sports

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT