WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 15, 2006
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  What did you think was the difference in the last game?  Seemed like he was kind of on his mark.   
 TIM HENMAN:  Hit a couple of good shots in the last game but, you know, a match of that nature, it's going to boil down to a couple of important points at important times.  You know, it kind of went his way.   
  
  Q.  What was the exchange with the umpire after the second challenge that you'd won?  You went over and talked to the chair umpire.   
 TIM HENMAN:  Just that it's a judgment call whether he thinks it was a winner or whether he thinks Andy had a play on it.  I didn't think he had a play on it, but Norm obviously did.   
 You know, I think a call of that nature at that time, he shouldn't be trying to overrule it because it was in in the first place.  It's going to be so close whatever.  So 4-5, 15-30 in the third, it's not an ideal time to have to win the point twice.   
  
  Q.  The replay showed he wasn't anywhere near the ball.  You still won the game.  Did that affect you at all, though, afterward?   
 TIM HENMAN:  No, no, no.   
  
  Q.  Okay.  Obviously, if you lose that game...   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, if you lose it, then it's a huge difference.  Fortunately, for me, I won that game, but you still don't want to have to really go through that process.   
  
  Q.  What do you see in Andy and just how he's developing?  I mean, not just playing him twice in two weeks, just his game.   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's improving, there's no question.  I think there's areas that he will keep improving, which is obviously exciting because he's 21 in the world right now and he's going to get better and better.  So, you know, it does bode very well for him.   
  
  Q.  Is it strange to play him two weeks in a row?  I mean, you'd only played him once ever.   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it happens, yeah.  I mean, it's just that we're the same nationality and it doesn't happen so often.  But I'm sure, you know, that's why it's called "luck of draw."  It happens from time to time, but that's the way it goes.   
  
  Q.  I think he has remarked that he considers you a friend.  Do you see him as someone that you'd give advice?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah, whenever he's -- you know, if he's asked.  There's a lot of experience that he's going through that I've been through myself, so, uhm, you know, we've talked about a lot of different issues.  But, you know, to a certain extent he has to learn himself.   
  
  End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT