NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 27, 2006
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Extraordinary match.   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yep.  No doubt the most bizarre I've ever played.  Yeah, just sort of shocked, I think, really.  I mean, to play the first set as I did and him to play, you know, that badly, I think I only lost four points in the first set.   
 You know, I certainly didn't take anything for granted.  I wanted to keep the pressure on.  But I think I missed one, you know, forehand I could have and should have made at 30-15, at 1-All on my serve.  All of a sudden, you know, playing against a different player.   
 You know, he was then dictating, but I still, you know, even losing the second set, had the opportunities in the third.   
 You know, in the circumstances, having beaten Safin and Hewitt, to lose a match like this is, yeah, makes you...   
  Q.  He played well.   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, he's obviously doing something right if he's beaten Srichaphan and Hrbaty.  No, it certainly doesn't sit well with me.   
  Q.  You seemed to hope that he was going to make errors for you.   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's difficult.  Yeah, it wasn't, I mean -- much more swirly today.  The first two matches when the wind's just coming from one direction, it's fairly straightforward.  I mean, it's clear that one end you can play with a lot more spin, the other end you can be more aggressive.   
 Whereas today, you know, you'd hit one shot and it would go six feet long.  You'd hit the same shot and it would go in the net.   
 So, yeah, and the circumstances of the match, when it gets, you know, as it got tight, you don't want to give away the cheap points.  You know, he's difficult to play against.  He's got a good backhand.  It seems like he miss-hits every other forehand, but he doesn't miss it.   
 Yeah, it's not easy, but you can, you know, talk about those things until you're, you know, blue in the face.   
  Q.  What did you know about him before walking on court?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Not a lot.  I spoke to a few people and went and watched him practice a bit yesterday.   
 But, you know, I wanted to go out there and play my game and did that well to begin with but, you know, it didn't -- he couldn't play at all at that stage.   
 And then, you know, his level had gone from nonexistent to playing some pretty good stuff in the space of a game.   
  Q.  When was the last time you remember winning a set as easily as that?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I mean, yeah, I mean, it doesn't happen, does it?  I think Kratochvil in Basel one year, I think only lost a few points.  Actually, Ivanisevic at Wimbledon, I think third set I didn't lose many points, four or five maybe.  It just goes to show whether you win the set 6-Love or 7-6, you only win a set for it.   
 But, yeah, the work that I did to get through the two matches, to lose this is pretty tough to swallow.   
 Nothing more to be said really, is there?   
  Q.  So what happens now?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Uhm, not a lot.  I get ready for the clay.   
  Q.  You still haven't won the challenge.   
 TIM HENMAN:  No, still hoping.  Still wouldn't have bet on the ones that I've challenged either.  Still had a bit of hope, but it's obviously a bit more accurate than I thought it was.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT