ATP CUP
January 7, 2020
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MURRAY-SALISBURY/Albot-Cozbinov
6-2, 6-3
Team Great Britain - 3
Team Moldova - 0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I guess it's an anxious wait now to see whether you make the quarterfinals. What do you do?
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, I'm not sure it's that anxious, but we came out with a game plan today and really wanted to execute and play the matches, all the matches, on our terms.
Certainly looking for a reaction from Cam, who was disappointed with his performance against Darcis, and the way he responded was fantastic. You know, he gave very little away, put in a professional performance, and, you know, likewise, we're waiting on a result, but the most important thing is you control the things that you can control.
You know, likewise, I would say my concern for the Evans match was how he would respond after putting in such a good performance against Goffin. It's not always easy to back that up.
I mean, he was world class again. Gave so little away. Got off to a very good start, took his opportunities, and it was a really clinical performance. And then the context of the event, we are 2-Love up, but we know every match is going to be important. So for Jamie and Joe to continue that momentum was great. So, you know, I can't fault that at all.
Q. Do you think Dan, putting those two performances together, he seems to be playing with as much confidence as he has in a long time, like that win the other night, that's going to propel him in the next month or two?
TIM HENMAN: I hope so. You know, I have known the tennis he's capable of. I would just say the challenge is to deliver that consistently throughout a match, consistently throughout the tournament and throughout a year.
That's not always easy. And I think, you know, the element that we focused on is really the mental side of things and just playing it point by point, trying to structure the points on his terms so he can be, you know, aggressive, and, you know, dictate at the right moments. He's done a great job of that.
I really hope that this can be a sort of catalyst for bigger and better things to come.
Q. If you guys do finish on top of the pool, which I know there is a lot to happen between now and then, I think you go up against Australia potentially. Have you seen their matches over the last couple of days?
TIM HENMAN: I have certainly kept an eye on the other cities and what's been going on there. It would be a lot of fun if that were the case.
Obviously I have a lot of history with Lleyton and, you know, everyone knows the team well, the Australian team. You know, it would be a big challenge.
But, you know, we would love that opportunity, because it would mean we have come through our group.
Q. You mentioned your history with Lleyton. Would it be a little odd for you to be on sort of the other side instead of being on the court?
TIM HENMAN: No, I mean, that's what this event, this week has been about for me in one respect is I have never done it before. I have never been a captain of a team event.
You know, I didn't necessarily know what to expect sitting on the side of the court, but I have said it once, I will say it again, I have absolutely loved it. I feel like there has been a great spirit in our team.
I have been, you know, way more relaxed than I perhaps thought I would be, and so, yeah, from a captain's role, the preparation is always going to be one of the most important elements, and I think that is what's gone well for the team. We have been able to deliver some good matches, as well.
Q. Has it been different than you expected in any particular way?
TIM HENMAN: Yeah, that way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT