NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 23, 2006
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Take us through it?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Sat in the locker room as the girls went into the tiebreak and no word of a lie, we predicted it spot-on.  Once the other girl won the first set, we said, Mirza, gonna win the set 6-1 and then we said it was going to be 7-6 in the third.  When it was 4-Love, we said it was going to get back to 4-All.  It was just Safin and I sitting there with Lundgren.   
 They came in and said to us, they originally said, the referee and everything, 11:30.  If it's after 11:30, you don't play.  That was at about, you know, 10:30.   
 So then when she wins the set 6-1, they say, "Oh, well you play now."  Then when it was 4-Love and they came back to 4-All, at 20 to 12, they said it's up to you, you don't have to play now.   
  Q.  "They" being?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Vito and whoever, some other guy.   
 We're like, "Now you tell us, 20 to 12."  What option have we got really?  If we don't play, then what time are we -- we're not going to sleep before three or four.  And then we've got to play today and then you've got to play tomorrow.  So it's like... so we both said, you know.   
  Q.  Is that a new experience?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I did actually play Stepanek in Vienna last year, at the end of last year, and I went on at half past eleven and we finished at five past two and I lost.   
  Q.  Never gone out in the early hours of the morning?  Taken the court after midnight?   
 TIM HENMAN:  It's late.  It's pretty, yeah, I don't think I've ever gone on after midnight.   
  Q.  In all those circumstances, you played exceptionally well?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Played great, yeah.   
  Q.  In terms of performance, recent performances?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I think, you know, to give myself a bit of credit, I've been playing all right.  That's why I'm not that surprised with the performance.  You know, the result is -- that's the bonus.   
 But, you know, I feel the way I've played the last, you know, four weeks, I've been hitting the ball great.  I've played some good matches obviously in Dubai.  Played a good match against Johansson in Rotterdam.  I didn't play badly to lose, actually.   
 You know, in Indian Wells, it was difficult, Berdych (inaudible) played well.  But my practice and everything has been really great.  So that is the aspect that I've been just concentrating on.  Because if you can control that and keep that level high, it doesn't guarantee that you win the match, but I still think at, you know, the level that I can play at, I'm going to win a lot more than I lose.   
 Tonight was a good example that I had a good game plan and, obviously, the execution was there.  It's difficult when you've been waiting around that long and someone wants to get off to a fast start, and it was me.  I kept putting the pressure on irrespective of his passing ability, I was going to come forward and see if he could pass me for an hour and a half or whatever.   
  Q.  What time did you actually arrive on site?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Uhm, I came and practiced on center at 10 this morning, so I got here at 9:15.  Practiced at 10, finished by 10:30, then stretched and did a bit of work in the gym and then had a sandwich at 11:30, then left at 12 and we're staying on Key Biscayne so I didn't come back until probably half past seven.   
 So that definitely helps.  If you're hanging around here, you're going to lose your mind.  That helped, to be able to get away and watch the golf.   
  Q.  We did a bit of that.   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.   
  Q.  You did seem to be seeing the ball particularly well, didn't you?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.   
  Q.  Do you know why that was?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Sometimes you feel like you're picking up.  The lights are good here.  But, again, I think a lot of it is dictated by the start.  For me, to be the person getting an early break, and although I did lose serve, I was -- I felt like I was really, as you say, picking it up well.  He was not picking it up so well.  I felt like I was able to exploit his movement a couple of times and, again, make him hit those passing shots.  If you're not picking the ball up well, you're not moving quite as well as you can, and you've got to hit passing shots.  Being rushed, it's a bad combination.  That was obviously the game plan.   
  Q.  Chip and charge was working particularly well, wasn't it?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I'm not going to beat him from the back really, and that's one of my strengths, is taking the guy's time away.  My athleticism at the net is good enough to cover a lot of the shots.  So it's going to be effective against most people.   
  Q.  Are you surprised how many people stayed?  American crowds aren't known for their...   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, no, it was good.  I think it's basically anyone on site is allowed to come in.  They weren't going to be fussy, weren't going to be fussy about tickets.   
  Q.  You weren't the only match going on?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I saw the results.  Srichaphan went down, didn't he, 7-5 in the third.   
 But, you know, it's a hell of a good feeling to hang around this long and win than it is to lose.   
  Q.  You and the referee have had some interesting times at various matches, times of matches, etc., etc. (inaudible)?   
 TIM HENMAN:  No comment (smiling).  We had a good decision about men's and women's courts.  Why don't men play on one court and women play on another court so they can just get on with what they do and we can just play our matches which are a bit more, you know, predictable.   
 But I guess Stadium Court would be a different kettle of fish.   
 But, no, Alan, we've had some interesting moments over the years.  That's for sure.  He was smart, though.  He wasn't the one to come and tell us at 20 to 12 that, you know, we've got the option.   
  Q.  You've got a tough match...   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.  That's right.  You know, same attitude.  You know, 0-8.  Comes 0-9, there's not that much difference, is it.   
 So, you know, I feel good about my game.  I don't think he's playing as well as he can do, so let's see what happens.   
  Q.  Tactics won't vary too much, will they, I wouldn't have thought, from the way you played here?   
 TIM HENMAN:  What do you think they should be?   
  Q.  I just think you've got to go for what you did today.   
 TIM HENMAN:  (Smiling).  No.   
  Q.  He's not hitting the ball as well --   
 TIM HENMAN:  You know, that's the aspect when I do press and I come in, that's playing exactly into his hands.  And you look at people that serve a lot better than I do, you know, return so well, and look at the people -- you look at the people that beat him.  You know, they're the ones that are patient.  We had an interesting -- I practiced with Lleyton in Indian Wells -- and it was very a very interesting outcome.  It was, you know, it was a different strategy.  It's an interesting concept because it's playing all the tactics that we've talked about, it's basically not doing that, because he's, I think, the best there is at, you know, picking the targets and hitting the lobs and rolling one down at your feet.  And when I played him differently in practice in Indian Wells last week, you know, it was a very different scenario.   
  Q.  Had you tried all the tactics against him by now?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Not enough of actually being patient and actually staying in the rally instead of, you know, trying to over press.  And it gives me, when I'm trying to press like I play against Marat, I feel like I have to hit perfect shots because he's so good at his passing shots.   
 You know, you look at the guys that have beaten him, and the guys that have caused him trouble.  Not many of them serve and volley.  I mean, not many people serve and volley anyway, I appreciate that.  But, yeah, I'm going to try something a bit different and see what happens.   
  Q.  The score was in the practice set?   
 TIM HENMAN:  6-3, 6-3.   
  Q.  Same as today?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah, that's right.  But, you know, practice doesn't mean a great deal, but it certainly helped to play a different tactic and have some success.   
  Q.  Is your back all right?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.  That was a big point as well.  I just sort of went up and I was backwards and landed.  No, I felt great out there.  That's a big aspect.  You know, my movement in the last four, five weeks, I really think has been much more fluent and that has been a big difference.  I think before, it's been a bit up and down and I haven't had so much confident, I felt like I've been pretty stiff and lunging and pushing out of, you know, the corners.  It hasn't been as good as it was.   
 But now I feel, you know, much, much better.  Then, you know, so much more enjoyable.  You're playing without the pain, and that's, touch wood (knocking on wood) something that I need to continue.   
  Q.  Was that the best you've served this year?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I served okay, yeah.  I think that's another aspect that I talked about.  My ball toss, if it gets too far left, it's bad news for my back.  I've been getting it in the right position.   
 So, yeah, I think, yeah, at the right times I served very well, and, again, that's something that I'll need to do well against Lleyton.   
  Q.  HawkEye add anything to that game?  How do you feel about it?   
 TIM HENMAN:  He was going to, I thought he would have queried a couple more, I had a couple of tight ones on my baseline.  I wasn't sure.  Just got called out.  Just put the head down, and carried on walking (laughing).   
 I think it's fantastic.  I think it's great for the fans.   
 You know, we've got to -- we're in the entertainment business, and I think something like this brings a lot to it.  It's going to be a good talking point, and I think it's been pretty accurate so far.   
  Q.  Did you sit with Marat most of the evening?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, just sitting in the locker room, yeah.   
  Q.  Just chatting away?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Uhm, yeah.  I mean, kind of chatting, but kind of watching the women's.  It was -- Marat, my translation for the Russian is not great, but I kind of got the gist of it.  It wasn't too complimentary (laughter).   
  Q.  Was he as keen to play when you were?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, 20 to 12, we're not going to hang around -- we're not going to wait all that time and then say where will they put us if we were to not play today and play, we would probably be second match on or something.  We just said let's do it.  It was pretty obvious we were just going to get on with it.   
  Q.  If they would have given you a choice at 10 o'clock, what would you have done?   
 TIM HENMAN:  Gone home.   
  Q.  Is it difficult to keep focus?  You're not sure --   
 TIM HENMAN:  A little bit, but in some respects it kind of relaxes me, I think.  You sort of get on the court and you're like -- been waiting around so long for this, let's just play.  It's gonna be difficult, you know.  It's going to be hard to get your feet moving and sometimes to concentrate as well as you can.   
 But I just felt like, and you probably see my demeanor on the court, it's just like, "Let's just play."  I wasn't gonna get frustrated or -- it helps when you're playing well, obviously.  But just get on with it.   
 I think to his, you know, credit, he could have easily -- he could have easily gone bananas pretty early but I think he knew it was difficult circumstances.  It's half twelve, one o'clock, and we're playing.  So just play.   
  Q.  Presumably you'll be asking Alan for a midnight start against Lleyton?   
 TIM HENMAN:  If he can guarantee me the same outcome, absolutely.   
  Q.  He's not getting much sleep at the moment, is he?   
 TIM HENMAN:  I hope not.  He's been definitely walking around with a bit of a glazed look on his face (smiling).   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT