TMS - MADRID
October 19, 2005
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim. 


Q.  After the second set, did you think maybe it would swing your way or could you see he still had a lot left?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, a second set like that, I don't think -- yeah, it was certainly a good set for me.  I played some good stuff.  But, you know, to go as quickly as that, you know that it's going to be kind of a one-set match from there.  You know, the quality of serving for the first seven games was very, very good.  Then, you know, he hit a couple of good shots.  I serve a double-fault.  You're up against it.  I think that's probably a reflection on lack of matches.  But, again, in terms of the way that I'm moving, the way that I'm feeling on the court, there is certainly a lot to be positive about.  You know, in the context of this year, it's not the most sort of important result of my career.  I do feel, you know, a lot more enthusiastic and a lot more excited about my game because I'm out there playing pain-free, I've been able to play the way that I want to. 

Q.  Did it feel very different from last time in the sense that you have to check a bit on the groundstrokes and play with more caution in that area of the game compared with in Vienna?

TIM HENMAN:  I mean, a slightly different match.  But I think, you know, in the first set, there was probably five or six critical points again.  You know, breakpoint in the first game, I get an overrule, then I get a pretty good hit on an approach shot, and it basically sits up, and he has a duck.  You know, I never felt like I could get some momentum going there.  I was always the one playing catch-up.  When was it?  I guess it was then his breakpoint.  He got a dead net cord on the return.  You sometimes feel like you're always up against it.  That was the way it felt like in the first set.  I felt there was some really good-quality tennis.  At some of the key moments, it didn't really happen for me.  I think that was probably why I did respond well, because I felt like there was nothing wrong with the way that I was playing, the way I was moving.  It certainly did turn around pretty quickly. 

Q.  Did you find it difficult serving at the press end?  There was a lot of noise and distraction. 

TIM HENMAN:  No. 

Q.  Weren't affected by that?

TIM HENMAN:  There's obviously the walkways around, to begin with, there's a few photographers up there.  It's pretty noisy, the cameras and walking around.  You throw the ball up, and suddenly there's someone above you, which is a bit rare.  But they didn't stay for too long, fortunately. 

Q.  There was the hint of a grimace as you went for a volley near the end there. 

TIM HENMAN:  I don't know what I did, but my toe is killing me.  I'm not sure what happened. 

Q.  You had to stop, make a quick move. 

TIM HENMAN:  I don't know whether I actually may have been moving, lunging for a volley, hit my foot somehow, stubbed it with the racquet.  Yeah, it's pretty sore right now (smiling).  I think I'll be all right. 

Q.  You obviously want to get a momentum at some stage.  How difficult is it for someone who has been getting to the ends and quarterfinals and semifinals and finals of tournaments to find it so difficult to replicate that at the moment? 

TIM HENMAN:  I'd love to be, you know, winning more matches.  But, again, in the context of the year, doesn't make any difference because I'm going to stop after Paris and have a break, then really crack on with the off-season with, you know, training, both on and off the court.  There's going to be a big break in matches.  I do -- don't get me wrong, I'd much rather be winning more.  But just, as I said, to be playing with the feelings that I've got is really enjoyable because it hasn't been that way for a long, long time.  That's why, you know, if I didn't believe I was going to be able to start winning matches and winning tournaments, then I wouldn't bother doing it.  You know, I think when I do start '06, I'm going to hit the ground running.  I am very excited and motivated about that. 

Q.  How much has he improved gradually, Stepanek?  You had four wins against him. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah. 

Q.  The latest was in March.  How much has he improved? 

TIM HENMAN:  He's improved a lot. 

Q.  I know you had a disappointing season, but he's obviously --

TIM HENMAN:  He's had a great season, yeah.  I don't know what his ranking is.  I think he's inside 20.  He must be.  You know, that speaks for itself.  It's probably a fair reflection.  He's played a lot more matches; he's got a lot of wins under his belt.  You know, I haven't done that this year.  Today, the third set, I think that is the reflection on things.  He's been able to come through those.  You know, I didn't do that today. 

Q.  Following on that particular theme.  He's a good player, but you wouldn't say he's an extraordinarily outstanding player.  You are a very, very good player.  Is there the frustration that in the last two matches, perhaps you should beat him?

TIM HENMAN:  I think I'm a better player than him.  But that's where, you know, I don't want it to sound flippant or something like that.  But, you know, in the context of where I'm at, I played some good tennis today, and I came second.  I'm not going to dwell on it any more than that.  If I'd won that match today, sure, it would have given me an opportunity to try and build more and get more matches.  You know, I want to play well.  I'm probably not describing this very well.  I want to play well the next couple weeks.  If I do, great.  If I don't, big deal.  I'm ready to wipe the slate clean of this year.  You know, I've already got my plans in place for what I'm doing in December, and I'm excited and very, very motivated about that.  You know, it's not where my focus is, but it's in the back of my mind. 

Q.  Were the plans any different from previous close seasons? 

TIM HENMAN:  It's similar.  But it's just a good stretch.  The last couple years, having played right into the end of the season, had problems physically, then it hasn't been as long as I would like.  There's a good probably five-week stretch where I've got no other commitments, I've got no sponsor commitments.  I've got no disruptions.  That's the way I want it.  That's the way it's going to be.  I'm looking forward to it.  It just extended, I think.  I've got a bit more time.  I think I have to do slightly different things because of, you know, my age and my body, but, you know, I think hard work is the bottom line. 

Q.  You played some good tennis out there.  Is it a matter of fine tuning? 

TIM HENMAN:  I think it's matches.  You know, it's about winning -- holding serve in the first game, not going down a break early.  When you break back, finding a way to keep your nose in front and finding a way to win the third set.  You know, it's not about technique on my backhand or the way I'm moving to my forehand; it's about matches, and I haven't played enough.  That's the reality of the year. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT