TMS - MADRID
October 17, 2005
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Good night's work. 

TIM HENMAN:  It was.  I was very happy with my level of play.  I think it's a reflection -- last week I thought I played some, you know, similar tennis but wasn't able to take my chances when I had them.  You know, tonight I think I had three breakpoints and took them all, or maybe four and got three.  I think that's a reflection of getting one more match under my belt, and hopefully I can continue to build from that just these last few tournaments of the year because I'm feeling better and better on the court health-wise.  I'm feeling pretty content with the way I've been hitting the ball. 

Q.  Is it hard to control the ball here?  He seemed to have problems early on. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I think if you're the one that's dictating and stepping into your shots, it still can fly a little bit.  If you get on the defensive and you're off balance, it is difficult to control.  You've got to make sure you're getting clean hits on the shots because it definitely flies through the air quickly.  Yeah, I think given that being the case, I thought my returning was a pretty high quality.  I didn't really try and do too much, not that you have too many options when he's serving that big.  The number of times I kept making him play low volleys then setting myself up for good passing shots was another good sign. 

Q.  Having had to wait so long, is it really nice to get a couple of wins? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.  I think when you wait this long, you know, throughout the day, then go on at 10-ish, I think it's depressing when you lose, but when it's sort of the middle of the night, you feel even worse.  It's definitely good to come through this one. 

Q.  Just to get into the rhythm and get into a tournament, how important is that do you think between now and the end of the year to actually get into the teeth of an event and feel as though you're really part of it?  It's not quite been that way for you recently, has it?

TIM HENMAN:  No, it certainly hasn't.  I played a very limited number of matches.  Certainly I just want -- I'd like to do that with some of these events, as you say, towards the end of the year.  Each match is important because I want to use it as a steppingstone to not only the off-season, but to 2006.  Yeah, I feel motivated.  But obviously having played so little, I still do feel very fresh when I think you can see a lot of other guys get pretty drained mentally and physically at this moment in time after a long year.  I do feel in much better shape, feel in a good frame of mind. 

Q.  Just a couple of points on the match.  How pleased were you with the way you served your way out of the breakpoints?  Put in one curler, then went for it.  Mixed it up and got him thinking, didn't you?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think one of the most pleasing aspects has been just in this week and last week -- well, last week and then continuing it today, has been my rhythm on my serve.  I think, you know, in the past, I've tried to serve a little bit too big and tried to force it and lose my rhythm.  I think that's one of the very, very small benefits.  Things that I've learnt having gone through these back problems is if my rhythm and timing is good on my serve, I can still serve the way -- serve a way that is very effective.  That was I think evident in the whole match, but certainly in that game where he hit some good returns.  I had some opportunities.  Then suddenly to mix it up on one of the breakpoints, then come with a bigger serve, it was a good aspect for me. 

Q.  Is it pleasing to have a bit of company now in the headline stakes with Murray doing what he's doing, getting a lot of attention?  Is that in any way a spur to you or do you just take your own career?

TIM HENMAN:  No, in every aspect it's a big, big positive for me.  You know, we talked about it -- I've talked about it for years and years.  We need more players.  Now he's come along and he's going to be around for a long time.  He's going to keep improving a lot more.  That is exciting because to have another, you know, a real, genuine focal point, not just for a week here and a week there, is I think good news for me.  You know, I've spoken to Petch and him quite a lot in the last few weeks.  You know, I'll be a very keen and enthusiastic spectator in watching what he's going to do.  Not only the next year, but his whole career. 

Q.  The rematch with the guy that you played four days ago, will you have learnt anything clear and definite from that meeting which will change what you do?

TIM HENMAN:  Not really.  I mean, I think I did a lot of good things.  I certainly played a level of tennis that could have won that match.  As I said tonight, you know, it's about trying to take some opportunities when you create them.  On the whole, in the context of that match, I didn't do it.  I had a lot of breakpoint opportunities.  Don't get me wrong, he hit some great serves, didn't give me chances on every one.  But I felt like it was a match that I certainly was capable of winning.  Again, I feel pleased that I've played a good quality match tonight, and having a match under my belt in these conditions I think can be in my favor. 

Q.  But you'd like to be finishing well before midnight next time. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  Fingers crossed, I could have a daytime match. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT