THE STELLA ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 7, 2005
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  Is that your Wimbledon haircut?

TIM HENMAN:  Is it different from the way it is ever (smiling)?

Q.  Yeah, I seem to remember you sort of coming with short haircuts to Wimbledon.  Is that intentional?  Style police.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, exactly.  Took the words right out of my mouth (smiling).


Q.  Do you view that as a good workout?

TIM HENMAN:  Hmm, absolutely.  I, you know, played this tournament for so many years, and I do absolutely appreciate how, you know, difficult the first match is on the grass.  To come through in that type of scenario was great because I played some, you know, some pretty good tennis in patches over the first two sets, but to really play as well as I did in the third is, you know, is really pleasing. There are certainly areas that I can do a little bit better in and be more consistent in.  But for first match up, I was pleased.


Q.  Presumably, there's no real disadvantage for it going to three?  It might have annoyed a few people.

TIM HENMAN:  No, no.  Yeah, probably annoying Grosjean and whoever he's playing; he's been waiting around all day. But, no, in those circumstances, to play a couple of hours in that type of atmosphere and the conditions is absolutely spot-on.  So it was good.


Q.  Did you feel the form was just beginning to come there at the start of the third set?  You started to chip and charge.

TIM HENMAN:  Well, again, I certainly changed it up a little bit.  It's an aspect -- I mean, I've always chip-and-charged, but I've been trying to play more aggressively on the returns because I think in these types of conditions, if, as is the case, so many people serve and stay back, if you just sort of block the ball back, it really sits. There are many ways to play on grass, but the one way you can't play is defensively.  You can play on the baseline, but you have to be aggressive and serve.  I've certainly worked on trying to be a little bit more offensive, but I've certainly used the chip and charge well in the third.


Q.  Did he surprise you, how well he played?  We haven't heard much from him recently.

TIM HENMAN:  He's been struggling recently, yeah.  He hasn't had a good run.  But I think he's had good results on grass in the past.  His style is a little bit awkward because he takes the ball early and can keep you back.  But his return of serve is very good.  He stands in really tight to the baseline.  You know, mixes up his positions where he returns from, and that's not always easy.


Q.  Jamie Delgado was saying earlier, albeit he played on the other court, but it was very, very slow, balls were very, very heavy.  A subject you're an...

TIM HENMAN:  Expert on.


Q.  How did you think it was?

TIM HENMAN:  I thought it was okay.  You know, we've had this debate before.  Certainly if we look back five or six years, it is, I think it's certainly a lot slower. But I think, you know, the courts are always fantastic here, and it's just a question of if you can be aggressive and be the one getting the first hit in the rally, then you can dictate play and you can make it seem quicker. But if you're the one that, you know, is getting caught behind the baseline and you're not able to step up and dominate, then, yeah, sure, you know, it can play slow.  The Hewitt and Malisse match, that was a good example.  They were playing solidly, but they weren't really taking the ball on so much.  You've got two hours 40 for a three-set match on grass, which is, I think, new for everybody.


Q.  Is it harder to feed off a crowd here when kind of they sit back and say...

TIM HENMAN:  Sit back and drink.


Q.  What?

TIM HENMAN:  Sit back and drink.


Q.  Well, yeah.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think, you know, over the years, again, that's something that I've learnt to deal with.  It sort of, you know, ebbs and flows.  Sometimes they like to wait until you're kind of struggling a bit, and then they get really into it.  You know, other times it can be, you know, if you're dominating the match, they'll let you get on with it. You know, I think with the weather today, pretty much a full crowd, it's pretty tough to beat.  I do really enjoy this tournament.  You know, I'd like to try and win it.


Q.  How much fresher did you feel compared to last year?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I don't think there's any comparison there.  You know, I was disappointed to lose early in Paris, but on the flip side of it, it gave me a great opportunity to practice and do a lot of work with Paul.  You know, I'd like to think that that will benefit me not only this week, maybe, you know, in a couple of weeks' time. And, you know, last year was difficult in the context of this tournament, but I still would take last year's scenario, no question.


Q.  Did you allow yourself any time off?

TIM HENMAN:  Not really, no.  I think, you know, one of the areas, that I feel that I've struggled a little bit in the last, you know, in the last six months really - or slightly longer, nine months is the amount that I've played - for different reasons I don't think I've played enough tournaments.  And so, you know, I didn't, you know, I didn't really feel like I needed or deserved the rest after Paris.  I was pretty keen to get back on grass. I think we came back on Thursday, and then maybe had a couple of days.  I started hitting on Sunday.  So it's been good.


Q.  Is there a sort of annoyance around grass time?  Everyone thinks your game is so suited.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, "annoyance" isn't the right word.  It's frustration.  You know, how many grass court tournaments have I played in my career?  It's not many, is it?  I've played Nottingham on a couple of occasions, but really it's only Queen's and Wimbledon.  And we know the quality of the field that's always been here. But certainly I'd like to win any grass court tournament, because I know it's either going to be this one or Wimbledon.


Q.  How does your back cope with adjusting from clay to grass and the different movement?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it was good.  I had a little bit of stiffness in Paris, but it's been absolutely fine.  And I was, you know, I was thinking on the one hand it's softer, it may help me; but, obviously, the ball is, you know -- volleying, the ball is always lower, and it's going to be still a little lower on the ground strokes as well. So I was wary that perhaps it would, you know -- might be a few issues.  But, you know, after a match like that, I felt fine.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT