TELECOM MASTERS ITALIA
May 4, 2005
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  So it must feel good to know that you cannot play your best and still win a match like that?
 
TIM HENMAN:  So you're implying that I didn't play my best? 
 

Q.  I am, actually.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Really? 
 

Q.  Yeah.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Have got high standards, haven't they?  Yeah, I mean, there's not many areas that I need to sort of play better in.  I served very consistently.  I was always keeping him off balance.  I was pretty happy with my performance, and especially it still does feel early days in terms of the matches that I've had on clay. And, yeah, I just felt like my style of play does match up well against him.  If you give him time, like I watched some of Massu's tennis against Mathieu yesterday, and it was phenomenal how well he was hitting his forehand.  But the number of times that he was able to hit his forehand sort of at waist or shoulder height against me was pretty limited, and that obviously bodes well for me. 
 

Q.  You just seem so certain of what you're doing on clay now.  Can you compare that feeling to perhaps how you felt five or six years ago?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.  I mean, it was just -- again, I don't think it's really something to be surprised about.  I think it's obviously pleasing how much my game has improved.  But I think at this level, you know, I played so little on clay really, relative to the other players and how much, you know, this is the surface that they learn on.  So it was definitely going to take me time. But I always -- I think I always had a good attitude because I viewed it as very important that I learnt how to play on clay because I knew it would benefit my game throughout. You know, it's always -- I enjoyed playing on clay even then.  My results weren't much fun, but I did enjoy the movement and trying to learn how to adapt my game.  I would just think that it goes to show how effective I can be with my style. And, you know, I was just asked about it in the -- when I did the SKY interview afterwards, talking about which is my, you know, which is my best surface.  I wouldn't say clay is my best surface, but it's definitely one of my most enjoyable.  I think, you know, in all honesty, that's what's disappointing about Wimbledon, is how much I really don't enjoy playing on grass now because it's changed so much.  You know, that's somewhat disappointing. 
 

Q.  Does that suggest that we should take all our young players as a nation, play on clay at a much younger age, and perhaps buy a club...
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, it's something they've done in La Manga, isn't it?  Yeah, I think it's so beneficial. I think, you know, I don't necessarily -- I don't necessarily agree with just suddenly moving, you know, totally away from playing at home because I think it's, you know, at a young age it's important that you're developing, you know, as an individual at home with your family or whatever. But I think if you can be given the opportunity periodically to play good stretches on clay, it is so beneficial.  Because not only your movement in terms of your physical stamina is hard work and you've got to be able to stay out there for a long time; if you've got any technical weaknesses in your game, it's just magnified enormously; and, mentally, when you're playing those types of rallies, point after point, there's no easy option, you know.  There isn't really -- even someone like Roddick.  No one's ever served like Roddick, and how many aces is he serving?  I mean, I wouldn't have thought he serves more than, you know, half a dozen a match.  So you've got to learn how to work it out. Absolutely, I think the more you can play on this surface at a young age, the better. 
 

Q.  Is the enjoyment that you have on this surface perhaps due to the fact that other players find it so difficult to...?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  I know that my game matches up well against a lot of these guys.  When I take their time away and they've got big swings, they don't enjoy that, it doesn't suit them. And, you know, on this type of surface, when you're trying to take the ball -- if you're trying to take the ball very early and there's a fraction of a bad bounce, which there is from time to time, it's nearly impossible just to hit the clean passing shot, which they'll need to do if I'm coming forward, and that's a tactic that works well. And obviously, you know, bringing them into the net because their footing is not a sure footing; you can get them off balance a little bit, then you play a short ball and they've got to come into the net.  They can only play a chip, you know, backhand or whatever.  You know, got two hands, don't like taking one hand off the racquet.  So there's a lot of options, and I just feel that I'm able to exploit them a lot better now. 
 

Q.  That applies to Hrbaty?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it does.  Yeah, I mean, I practiced with him actually before the tournament and he was playing well. But, again, you know, I need to put pressure on his second serve.  He doesn't like someone attacking that all the time.  You know, he hits the ball a lot flatter.  So, again, you've got to try and vary it, try and get the ball up a little bit more and keep it low. So, yeah, it will be another tough challenge.  He's always a great competitor. 
 

Q.  Can you just clarify the point you made about Wimbledon, in terms of it makes you realize what you don't enjoy about playing there.  Are you specifically talking about...
 
TIM HENMAN:  Only the surface.  Only the surface.  Oh, it's my favorite place to play in terms of everything else.  But just the way the court has changed over the last three or four years. Even here, you know, if you're hitting a good shot, you feel like it goes through the court.  I think a combination with the grass changing to 100% rye, and the balls, you know, it's so soft, the ball almost just stops and sits up.  And that's why I think you've seen different styles being so much more successful at Wimbledon.  I mean, you've got to take into account that not many people serve and volley anyway. But, you know, I find it sometimes harder to come in on a grass court than I do on, say, clay court now. 
 

Q.  That must be tremendously frustrating...
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's just... yeah... 
 

Q.  Given people assume you're going to find it easy?
 
TIM HENMAN:  But that's the -- that would be an ignorant assumption about grass court now.  Because the grass court has changed massively.  They're so much harder and so true, the ball bounces up a lot higher.  So, again, you sort of have to adapt to that. 
 

Q.  How does this compare with the clay at Roland Garros?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's okay.  I think, I mean, the weather helps tremendously.  I remember playing last year against Zabaleta and it was so cold.  That's just -- that really -- I can't say that's fun, playing on clay like that. But it's sort of mediumish.  I think it's a little bit quicker.  But it's not -- it's definitely not that fast. And, again, there's variables, you know.  The ball can dictate that a lot, and the ball is definitely -- fluffs up a little bit. But, no, I think it's -- I definitely enjoy it.  I think the weather is probably one of the most important factors. 
 

Q.  Can you specifically talk about that court.  You've had some interesting experiences on it...
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.  Absolutely, yeah.  I mean, there's not many these days, having played these tournaments for so long, I could pretty much name every Masters Series court that I've had some interesting ones on. But, yeah, in the past, I think -- what they've done a good job with, I think, now, the courts are much more consistent.  I felt over the years they varied so much, and that court was always, you know, the slowest by quite a way. But now it seems like they're, you know, consistent.  Having played Guga on center and that one, in nitpicking, maybe that one still is a fraction slower but I think it's (inaudible). 
 

Q.  Is it a particularly unique court to play on because of where the crowd are, their interaction?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.  I mean, I think it's a fantastic setting.  But, again, I think it's important to prepare yourself where it's not going to be Wimbledon where everyone's sitting down.  There's going to be people wandering around and moving, phones going off.  I think it's just about your preparation. There were times, you know, in Indian Wells, say, when I was, you know, struggling with my concentration.  I was getting, you know, distracted by far less.  I think that's, again, the preparation.  I think here I'm ready for, you know, noise and people moving, and it doesn't distract me because you're kind of ready for it. 
 

Q.  You had any memorable wins on that court?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I enjoyed beating Stepanek there last year.  He's always a -- sometimes an awkward opponent.  To beat him 1 and 1 is pretty satisfying.  I enjoyed shaking his hand after that (smiling). 
 

Q.  Have you been asked if you're going to do a "Federer" for us in the Davis Cup?
 
TIM HENMAN:  What's that? 
 

Q.  He's coming back to play.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Oh, is he?  Yeah, I'm turning my phone off now (laughing).  I'm sure the phone will start ringing. I think, you know, I'm sure that question's going to arise.  But that hasn't -- you know, my thoughts and feelings haven't changed.  I think add to the fact that those guys deserve the opportunity to play in that type of occasion, because I'm sure it will be a big match over there. So, you know, good luck to whoever's going to be able to grasp that opportunity.  You know, I think as everybody would probably agree, that Andy is the one that stands out. 
 

Q.  Have you voted this year?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I hope my wife does. 
 

Q.  Want to tell us what you voted?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No (smiling).  JR asked me yesterday. 
 

Q.  Labor.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  Higher taxes (smiling). 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT