PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 17, 2005
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim.  
 
 
Q.  Disappointing.  He's a bit of a problem, isn't he?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I mean, it's a disappointing result, absolutely.  I think it's pretty disappointing the way I played.  I feel like, you know, my game style should suit me well playing against him.  But, you know, my level throughout was just not good enough.  I just thought the execution of a lot of shots was just poor.  It was as simple as that.  You know, you always give credit where credit's due, and he certainly, you know, is a great competitor.  He, you know, makes you hit those extra shots, and that caused me to, you know, miss a few volleys that, you know, I wouldn't normally miss.  But, yeah, it's frustrating because I felt, you know, if anything, my form was getting better with those matches under my belt, and I was pleased with the way that I came through the third set against Robredo.  You know, it was a disappointing performance.  
 
Q.  You started by serving very well, but then he put you under so much pressure, you were having desperate trouble time after time after time to hold serve.  That must take its toll in the end. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it does.  I think, as I said, you know, he competes so well.  But the number of times where I was up 40-15 and I didn't put the game away.  As you say, even though I held my serve for such a long time, that does take a toll.  But also I think the disappointing aspect, on his serve, I really feel like I should make an impact so much better than I did.  I created so few opportunities.  So, you know, sometimes I think the intent to play the right way was there, but the execution was certainly not.  So, you know, I guess sometimes you have to accept that you can't always play the way you would have liked.  But I don't think that will hide my frustration and disappointment in the next coming days.  
 
Q.  You said the other day before you knew whether it was Taylor Dent or him, you said you would have preferred to play Canas.  Given the record, why was that? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's a challenge.  I enjoy that challenge.  Robredo's got a better first serve, he's got a better second serve, he's got a better backhand.  They both have got good forehands.  You know, Canas probably moves marginally better, but there's much more that can hurt you about Robredo's game.  And, yeah, you know, I wanted to, you know, see whether I could do a better job.  You know, in terms of the quality, if I played like I did in Australia, and I lost, then no complaints.  But, you know, I feel from a personal point of view there's plenty to complain about because I'm just -- you know, I'm very disappointed with the way I was hitting so many different shots.  
 
Q.  You appeared to be at odds with the umpire over a few things out there. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, just frustration.  Yeah, I think I wasn't having my best day and I don't think he was having his best day either.  Sometimes you want to take your frustration out on someone else.  Unfortunately, Cedric was going to get the brunt of it today.  
 
Q.  Do you think we place too much emphasis on a psychological impact of someone you've lost against?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Did you say, "Do you put too much"?  
 
Q.  Do we? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yes.  Likewise, I've got good records against players and I don't think it has such an impact when you come into the match because you've got to go out there and prove that you're the better player.  You know, likewise, he's beaten me on a number of occasions, but it doesn't faze me.  I sit here having lost that match, and I still think I should beat him.  That's the competitive aspect in oneself.  Next time I play him, nothing will change.  You know, I won't change the way I try and play, but I just expect to play a lot better.  And if I do that, there's no reason why I shouldn't beat him.  
 
Q.  Is he the kind of guy who gets under your skin a bit? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  His shots.  He hits some great shots.  
 
Q.  When he throws the ball up and stops... 
 
TIM HENMAN:  No.  
 
Q.  Patrick Rafter, you might have said, "No problem." 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think in the context of the match, there was frustration building because of my inadequacies.  But, no, I get on great with him off the court.  He's a good -- Willie's a good guy, yeah.  I enjoy being around him.  Certainly when you've hit a good volley in the corner and you think, "I've got this point," the passing shot flies by you, that definitely gets frustrating.  But, you know, I don't look to any other areas.  You know, I point the finger at oneself because my level of play was just not good enough.  
 
Q.  Overall, it's difficult in the disappointment, but how much progress do you think you've made?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I'm building.  You know, I'm getting those matches under my belt.  And now there will be that positive aspect that, you know, I've played some pretty good tennis over the last week or so, and now I've just got to keep building from that because it's still -- you know, it's only four tournaments gone.  Yeah, it's always not the easiest time to start trying to be reflective.  But, you know, I'll go to Miami and prepare and look to build on it.  No reason why I can't.  You know, I played badly today, but I don't think that will have any influence on the way that I go there and play.  
 
Q.  Back all right?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's good.  I was a little bit sort of stiffer a bit higher up in my back, but I guess that's, you know, my elbow gets a bit stiff.  But to play two sets, and we were out there for two and a bit or something, I felt like I was moving well.  But, again, I just -- just comes back to, you know, the execution of shots.  It just wasn't there today.  
 
Q.  How do you determine your match competitiveness, match toughness?  You mentioned two or three times about not having played as many events so far this early in the year.  How do you assess where you are in terms of competitiveness, edge?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I'm in a better position than I was.  But I just feel that it's just the way the schedule has worked out.  And obviously my health at the beginning of the year, I need to sort of play, you know, a few events.  It's just again timing, you know, 10-day events, now there's a bit of a gap.  I just try and keep the momentum going as much as possible.  You know, then moving on from Miami onto the clay.  Then it will certainly pick up once you get into Rome, Hamburg.  Then it certainly won't be a problem because there's a good period of tournaments.  But it's just the way it's unfolded.  You know, I'd actually played to play a little bit extra.  You know, I wasn't able to do that.  But, as I said, you know, once I hit that period of time, then it will be busy.  I'll have a little bit of a break after Wimbledon, but then it's going to be busy.  I expect to play a lot from then on.  
 
Q.  When does the clay actually start?  Is it Monte-Carlo?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, Monte-Carlo.  I'm just playing the Masters Series again, as I've sort of tended to do.  Monte-Carlo, Rome, Hamburg, week off before Paris.  Yeah, I think that's a good schedule.  
 
Q.  Are you good at writing off losses, learning and moving on to the next match?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think I am.  I'm not the type of person that dwells on it.  I'll certainly,  you know, try and evaluate a few things to see where I perhaps could have played better and things that I could learn about his game.  But, again, I think it's something you do learn, you have to learn in tennis.  We compete so much.  You know, there's 96 players in this event, and 95 are going to lose.  You know, you have to deal with the ups and downs.  I mean, you know, it's disappointing right now, but there will be the next week in Miami.  It's another big tournament.  I'm looking forward to it.  
 
Q.  Is it a good thing to be good at writing off losses?  It seems it would make losses a little more acceptable. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  It depends what you take out of it.  Yeah, I mean, no one wants to lose, and no one's going to accept coming second.  But, as I said, I think if you are going to dwell on them and get very down and get very negative about things, it's not going to do you any good, is it?  As I've said, it's the age old question of, "What is success and failure?"  If in a Grand Slam 127 guys lose, does that mean you're a failure?  
 
Q.  Does that help; you get better at it as you get older?
 
TIM HENMAN:  You just have to deal with it.  You know, it happens.  I always thought Roddick, you know, was a good example in 2003.  He finished 1 in the world, and he lost 17 times in the year.  I don't think that happens -- it doesn't happen in other sports.  You have to deal with it.  It doesn't necessarily get any easier.  You know, I know I'm not going to be coming back here forever and I'd like to try and win this tournament.  But, you know, there has to be a time, whether it's, you know, tonight or tomorrow, Saturday, when you move on from it and start preparing and getting your mind focused on next week in Miami.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT