PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 16, 2005
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Please go ahead for Tim Henman. 


Q.  Were you generally happy, apart from the second set?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think, uhm, my performances have definitely been a little bit too up and down, and there's some good bits.  But, you know, we're all going to make mistakes and play a few bad points, but I seem to be playing, you know, two or three in a row.  On your serve, you can't afford to do that.  I really felt at the beginning of the third set, it's sort of the routine in between points, both mentally and physically, sort of kind of came to me a little bit.  In the two sets, I'm sort of just rushing a little bit, I'm a little bit quick in between points.  And I think mentally I'm a little bit quick.  You know, missed a bad volley in the first point, now here comes a second point, I'm going to serve here.  It's all going just a little bit too quickly.  In the third set, I found a much, much better rhythm.  I was slower and calmer, picking my spots.  Irrespective of what happens in the point before, I don't think it was coming over into the next point.  You know, that was -- I think that set was definitely the best set that I've played this year, something I've got to be able to do, you know, more often. 

Q.  You're just reiterating the old thing that it's all in the mind?

TIM HENMAN:  It kind of is.  I think there's times when you're going to execute shots poorly and, you know, you can't blame the mental side for that.  That's more physical.  But, you know, I think when I'm playing the right way against someone like Tommy, you know, who is a good player.  He's 20 or whatever in the world, I feel like I'm just dictating.  It's kind of in -- the match is in my hands.  Whereas in the second set I start to get a little further behind the baseline, he starts to dictate.  You give him a chance to do that, he's very, very good.  So, yeah, I feel very, very positive about the way that I was able to turn it around and play as well as I did in the third because the second set was, you know, not looking so good. 

Q.  Did you choose the moment to go in?  I thought you chose your moments to go in well. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think so.  That's obviously an important aspect for me because, you know, if you don't get forward, then he gets that rhythm and starts moving you further and further off the court.  I think psychologically, you know, a couple of times you see when his ball toss goes a little bit left on the first serve, he's going to hit a little kicker, and suddenly I come in on his first serve.  I think, you know, that sends out a good message.  Yeah, on the whole, the third set, it was a really good one for me. 

Q.  When you woke up a couple days ago and it was blowing a gale, you obviously looked out and thought it was going to be a long day. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.

Q.  Today it was almost picture-perfect to play tennis. 

TIM HENMAN:  It was.  There really is no comparison to the other day.  Conditions are pretty much ideal.  I would say if I'm getting really fussy, it's nice when it's a bit hotter.  When it was cooler this morning, then the ball doesn't quite go through the court as it has done.  But, no, I think that's getting pretty finicky. 

Q.  You've become kind of a connoisseur of playing here, haven't you?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I've had a few different variations.  But if you're going to compare it to home, there's still a lot more elements you could throw in.  We haven't had much rain.  It's just been a bit windy.  It's still such a great place to play.  I love coming back here.  Hopefully there will be a few more opportunities. 

Q.  Are there any nuances to playing here, not necessarily this site, but this environment?  Are there any nuances that help explain your success? 

TIM HENMAN:  I think because of the warm temperatures and the air is a little bit thinner, I think, the ball does go through pretty well.  I think that helps my style.  If it's sort of heavier and a little bit thicker, then, you know, passing shots, there's more margin for error.  But I think sometimes when I come in on the right ball, the guys know that they've got to hit it, you know, kind of pretty much perfectly.  If it's not quite right, slight miss-hit, then it will fly.  If they don't hit it quite close enough to the lines, then I'm going to be there.  That might have a little bit to do with it.  But it is bizarre how some places you just feel very, very comfortable.  Other places, it doesn't really work out so well.  You know, I had this sort of thing with Dubai in the last seven or eight years.  I played much better this year.  I was a little bit happier.  But it's such a great tournament, good surface, good speed.  I used to lose first round every year.  And why?  It wasn't that I wasn't trying.  I prepared as well as I could.  Sometimes it doesn't happen.  But this certainly has been a happy hunting ground for me. 

Q.  So is there no mad dogs and Englishmen factor here? 

TIM HENMAN:  It was slightly better than when someone in Australia called out, "Do it for Chiswick," I mean, I used to live in Chiswick seven or eight years ago. 

Q.  He was up to date. 

TIM HENMAN:  It was one of the more average ones that I've heard people call out. 

Q.  Given your success here, you do get a fair amount of coverage at home --

TIM HENMAN:  A fair amount (smiling)? 

Q.  You kind of put this place on the map. 

TIM HENMAN:  Perhaps.  It's tough for me to gauge.  I think this place has a great tradition - certainly in tennis terms.  You know, we've got a pretty good following at home.  I think the TV coverage and the media coverage is very good.  So I think, you know, it would be selling Indian Wells a little bit short if, you know, you thought that people didn't know where it was.  It is certainly a place that I love coming back to.  I think, you know, more and more people are aware of it from a tennis point of view and obviously from a golfing standpoint. 

Q.  Are there a lot of British people around? 

TIM HENMAN:  I mean, not as many as somewhere like Dubai where it's just, you know, there are so many Brits, so many expats there.  There's always a few coming out of the woodwork.  I've enjoyed -- felt like I've had good support here.  Those are all, you know, pieces that add to the comfort. 

Q.  Do you always stay in the same place?

TIM HENMAN:  I've always stayed at the Hyatt. 

Q.  Britain's finest tennis player reached the French Open last year.  Are you ready to go all the way this year? 

TIM HENMAN:  You've got to -- when you break it down, as I did better today, you know, can I win seven matches in a row on clay?  Yeah, I can.  You know, I had a great, great fortnight last year.  But, you know, let's not hide from the fact that it's just the toughest challenge for me.  If I can play the way I'm capable of and things go my way, then who knows.  You know, it was a pretty big surprise I think for myself to make that breakthrough in Paris.  But, you know, if I can make the semis, why can't I make the final?  I was a set and a break up in the semis.  If I can make the final, why can't I win it? 

Q.  Was that the biggest surprise of your career?

TIM HENMAN:  Was that the biggest surprise? 

Q.  Yes. 

TIM HENMAN:  I think in all honesty, if you look from where I'd come in in '97, in '97, I think I played one of my first tour matches on clay.  You know, there wasn't many good memories from playing Galo Blanco in Monte-Carlo.  And if you think of that type of progress in seven years, I think that's something to be proud of. 

Q.  You talked about your displeasure playing early matches.  How are you getting over that? 

TIM HENMAN:  Displeasure? 

Q.  You don't like to go in early. 

TIM HENMAN:  Oh, no. 

Q.  You've said you didn't want to play early matches. 

TIM HENMAN:  Really?  No, I'm not sure.  I mean, maybe four or five years ago before I had children, perhaps 10:00 was perhaps prime for the odd slow start.  But, no, you know, it's the one time you know what time you're going to start.  I had no problem with it.  You get off to a bad start and everyone says, "Oh, 10:00's too early."  Other days you get off to a good start, you're playing really well, "Oh, you like early days."  It's the way it can unfold.  But, no, I have no problems playing early. 

Q.  How about Mr. Canas or Mr. Dent in the next round? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I didn't see any of Taylor's play last night.  By all accounts he played very, very well.  It will be interesting to see how he fairs against Canas.  We all know I've had my struggles there.  Obviously, whoever I play, it's going to be a different style of match.  In all honesty, I would like to play Canas.  I feel like my game, you know, has come a long way.  I still -- you know, I back my style against that, against his game.  It's nice to be through and now I can let them worry about their match.  Just wait and see. 

Q.  Is Dent a player that could legitimately win Wimbledon with his game?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I guess so.  I mean, he's got so much -- he's got such a big game.  If he can beat someone like Safin on a court like this, then you would have thought that grass will favor him even more.  But I still think, you know, with his type of game, it does take a bit longer to learn all the different aspects and how to be consistent.  He's had some big moments, and then he's had a few sort of disappointing -- he's had some ups and downs basically.  But, yeah, on his day, with his style, I wouldn't have thought there's any reason why he can't. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT