PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 14, 2005
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim.  
 
 
Q.  Is it safe to say you've had more comfortable tennis matches? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  And especially coming to a place like this, we get spoiled with the conditions because they're just ideal for so many of the matches we play.  And I've played quite a lot here.  So today, it's a real struggle.  I felt that it was going to be a question of who was going to get frustrated first.  I think the first set was going to dictate that because, you know, I had opportunities, but in those types of conditions, it's very difficult just to sort of play without mistakes or without your opponent having some opportunities.  So you just have to accept it's going to be ugly at times and find a way to get through it.  You know, obviously to get the win is the most important thing.  It's still satisfying.  
 
Q.  He looked frustrated pretty early on, didn't he?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I mean, the first game -- the end to the left of the umpire's chair, that is the end that is really dictating and dominating play.  So you're expecting to hold that end, and then you feel like you've got a pretty good shot to break.  If you break that end, it's not like a conventional break, because you've got to go up the other end and serve, and that's where it was very difficult to play from.  So I broke him first game from that end, so that was like a double break, and then I lost my serve on that end as well.  I was thrilled with that (smiling).  But, again, you have to -- you can't take anything for granted, you know, any shot.  It's like, you know, you've got to write on a piece of paper, but someone's moving the paper.  It's pretty difficult to write neatly.  As I'm saying, you're missing volleys, and he's hitting serves off the frame.  You just have to accept it.  There's no point in getting frustrated with it.  
 
Q.  I remember you playing in a sand storm out there. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I did.  Yeah, we had to stop.  I think it was when I was playing Escude.  Yeah, you really couldn't look up because there was so much sand, and the chairs were blowing everywhere.  Yeah, I managed to win that day, as well.  I would prefer the conditions to be as they were.  
 
Q.  When you were driving to the court this morning, did you see the dust bowl scenario?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yes.  I mean, you obviously -- I think everyone's expectations and standards for the climate is so high when they're here because it's amazing.  I think you have to prepare yourself.  When you see that it's windy, it normally means it's going to be very windy.  Once that picks up, you're going to get sand as well.  You have to start preparing yourself from the word "go."  Actually, when we practiced, I hit at 9 this morning on the Stadium Court, and it wasn't too bad at all.  Then literally just as we, you know, got going, it really picked up.  It is, it's very, very, very difficult.  
 
Q.  What can you do to prepare yourself to play in that kind of wind?
 
TIM HENMAN:  You have to prepare yourself mentally to say, "You know what, this is not going to be easy.  We're going to miss-hit shots.  You're going to miss shots you would normally make.  You're going to serve double-faults."  I think if you can have a little bit of acceptance and give yourself a little bit of slack to say, "No big deal, I'm going to keep -- I'm going to be strong mentally, I'm going to keep fighting, I'm going to try for every point."  I think there are physical things as well.  You've got to make sure you keep moving your feet.  I think if you plant your feet for your shots too early, it's going to make life difficult because the ball is always -- the ball can move in a different direction at the last minute, so you want to make sure you're light on your feet.  I think it's an advantage for me because my swings are pretty compact.  If you've got big, big swings, it makes it even more difficult.  I think it's toughest to hit passing shots in that type of conditions because you just can't go for the lines.  I think with my ability at the net, you know, I can make life difficult.  
 
Q.  What is the footing like out there? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, it's fine.  I mean, if there was much, much more, it probably could get a little bit slippery.  At the moment, it's absolutely fine.  
 
Q.  Because of the conditions, having to change direction quickly, movements you wouldn't normally make, how is the back holding up?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, it's fine.  I mean, there is that little bit of adjusting at the last minute.  When the ball swirls, you've got to lunge at it.  No, I felt very good on the court.  My movement was good.  I felt there were times when I was covering the net very well.  I don't think you want to sort of read too much into the sort of tennis itself because you know it's virtually impossible to play quality tennis.  But you have to play tennis that's effective.  You know, for the large part, I did that well.  You know, the last game was a good example.  I knew that I got that win behind me, and I wanted to make life easy.  I hit really good serves, I hit the spots well.  If they came back, then I was ready to open him up.  It just emphasizes I think trying to do the basics well.  
 
Q.  Tennis Masters events are very important.  Have you contemplated how important these two are coming up in terms of what you did here last year? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it's more in the context of this year.  I don't sort of have an issue really because I did well here last year, you know, I've got points to defend, that doesn't really concern me.  I think, as I said earlier, it concerned me that, you know, I'm in the middle of March and I've only played three tournaments.  That was sort of a little bit frustrating.  I just think it added to my eagerness to get going and hopefully play some tennis to get some more matches under my belt.  You know, it's just the way this year has unfolded.  You know, to go to Australia, to not play Doha was by design, but having to miss out on playing Marseille was disappointing.  I'm sure later on in the year, there's going to be more opportunities to play some more events.  I'd like to do that because I feel when I've got more matches under my belt, it benefits me.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the other night with the exhibition.  Looked like everyone was having fun. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  It was a great -- I think it was a great evening.  First and foremost, it's for such a worthy cause.  And I think, you know, so many people have been affected by that.  But for us, as you say, I think it was a pretty unique situation where you had -- I don't know exactly, but probably you had nine or 10 of the best players in the world all together in an environment where the fans and the media to a certain extent could just see us a little bit more relaxed than perhaps we are when we're normally on the court, you know, doing our business.  It was, it was a lot of fun.  I think everybody enjoyed it.  We were able to raise some more money.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about the next possible opponents. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Is it still on?  
 
Q.  They're in a breaker. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Enqvist, you know, he's been around for a long time.  You know, he's struggled a little bit the last few years.  But when he's on, you know, his game is still tough to play because he hits the ball so heavy, he hits the ball very flat, doesn't have much margin for error.  So when he's on, he's really difficult.  I feel I still have to try and play my game, which isn't easy against him.  Whereas against Robredo, it's a bit more clear-cut.  You know he's going to be out there hitting his groundstrokes as heavy as ever, and I need to get forward to try and take his time away, you know, keep the points shorter.  We'll have to wait and see.  
 
Q.  When you're traveling around the world, how important is it to have someone like your wife or a person there, stability, to sort of help you succeed on the court?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it depends on the individual.  You know, my wife is very supportive, but I wouldn't really say that it's had that big an influence.  You know, people talk about when you have children.  Sure, I think it is inevitable that it changes your perspective.  But I don't really feel in my case it's changed the way that I've approached things, changed my attitude a great deal.  But I'm sure in other cases, to have that stability away from the court can be a big benefit.  I've always, you know, felt that I'm clear in my mind professionally what I'm trying to do, what I'm working towards.  But certainly I'm not complaining that I've got, you know, a great happy and healthy family away from it.  
 
Q.  At the risk of sounding sexist, you don't subscribe to the theory that behind every man is a great woman?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No.  
 
Q.  Is Lucy here?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No.  
 
Q.  If you can't play golf, family is at home, what on earth are you doing in your spare time?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I've asked that question of myself a lot now that I've had children.  What did I do with my time before?  It's nice to be able to go to the pool, you know, have a swim for a while and not worry about when the next one's getting up or having a bottle.  I'm enjoying it.  It will all change in Miami.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT