TENNIS MASTERS CUP- HOUSTON
November 13, 2004
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim Henman. 


Q.  You've played in this before?

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.

Q.  But you never qualified?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think I didn't qualify because I was 9th.  I was 8th one year and I didn't qualify because of the Grand Slam rule. So it's just amazing to be back here.  It is such a unique event.  It's so prestigious.  It just feels like it highlights what a good year it's been. That said, now, here, I want to play well and take advantage of that. 

Q.  In your mind, you've always been one of the top players in the world? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yes. 

Q.  Does this actually confirm it. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I mean, it does.  When you see the quality of the field, and as you say, there's no two ways of getting into this event.  You've got to qualify.  It's your performance in the year.  I think with the way that the last couple of weeks unfolded as well, it was -- I was in a good position because I felt like they were chasing me and in the past I'd been chasing them.  That's not easy. So to finally qualify, it was, it was a lot of satisfaction.  But you want to move on from that, and so now I'm here.  I want to finish the note off on a high. So I'm, yeah, I couldn't be more excited about it.  It's never a good thing to lose, but after I did lose in Paris, I didn't do anything for sort of four or five days.  I wanted to make sure I was totally fresh and ready to go here.  It's been quite a few good days' preparation.  It's been a bit colder, I think, than everyone thought.  That's why it's been really worthwhile to get out there and get used to the conditions. I'm playing Tuesday night, so we hit last night.  I think it's important to make sure that there aren't any surprises from that point of view. 

Q.  What do you think about the blue group?  It's a tough group. 

TIM HENMAN:  Hmm.  But you're in the World Championships.  So any match is going to be tough because it's the best eight players of the year.  So whoever you are going to be joined with, you are going to need to play well. As I said, it's great to be a part of this.  I want to play well, and we'll see how things unfold. But there certainly aren't going to be any easy matches for anybody. 

Q.  These matches are important.  You have a good record with Andy Roddick. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I've had, you know, a good record against him in the past.  This is, again, it's a unique situation because of the Round Robin.  So you want to win every match, but if you don't, if you don't win your first match, you still have an opportunity. So I think that makes it a little bit different as well.  So, yeah, just you're going to do everything you can to try to win each and every match you play. As I said, with the field as good as this, you are going to need to play well. 

Q.  When did you get here?

TIM HENMAN:  I got here on Wednesday night.  I don't think my geography was very good.  I thought it was going to be seven hours.  I sort of had in my mind it was going to be like going to New York or something.  Then I got on the plane, it was nine and a half hours. Yesterday, I felt better.  But the day before I felt pretty tired.  So I've just been, you know, practicing and training.  I had, you know, a couple of early nights, early mornings. But then, yeah, this morning was better. Yeah, I've just been making sure I prepare as best I can. 

Q.  What do you eat before a match?

TIM HENMAN:  What do I eat before a match?  That's something different (laughter). Anything.  You know, I don't eat so much pasta before I play.  You know, sandwich, chicken sandwich or something.  I probably don't eat -- I don't feel like I need to eat so much.  I've always got a lot of energy. 

Q.  How soon before a match do you eat?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I don't know.  Hour and a half, two hours before I play I'll probably have something to eat. 

Q.  You're not a vegetarian, though?

TIM HENMAN:  No, no.  I like a good steak. 

Q.  What is your work-out like the day of a match? 

TIM HENMAN:  I think sort of when you're getting really close to the matches, then you're sort of tapering it down a little bit.  I think the hard work has been done, you just want to make sure you're used to the conditions, you're used to the speed of the court, the balls. So day of the match, I probably only warm up, you know, 20, 25 minutes.  I think there's a difference between practicing and warming up.  And, you know, day of the match, you just want to go out there, you want to make sure your body is loose and hit all the shots and make sure you've got everything prepared and then get out there and get going. 

Q.  I have a reader that is a 16-year-old boy in Great Britain who is thinking of dropping out of school to become a tennis player.  I'm interested in your perspective. 

TIM HENMAN:  I think it's one of those things that you can always go back to education, but you can't always go back to being a 16-year-old ready to learn one's trade. Sure, you know, there's an element of risk.  You don't know whether you're going to be good enough.  You don't know whether you're going to lose interest.  You don't know whether you're going to have injuries or not.  But I think it's a risk that's worth taking.  If it works out, then it's a pretty good way to earn your living. 

Q.  How is Lucy?

TIM HENMAN:  She's fine, yeah. 

Q.  No danger the baby will be early?  When is it actually due?

TIM HENMAN:  Middle of December, so how long is a piece of string?  Fingers crossed (smiling).

Q.  Everything's going well?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah.  She's fine, yeah.  I mean, again, it's just one of those things.  It's a little bit of an unknown.  But I think it's four weeks away.  Then fingers crossed, there will be no last-minute dashes. 

Q.  You'll have, if you do well here and then obviously the baby, probably the most complete year you've had. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  Oh, absolutely.  That's why, I mean, I even said before qualifying for this event, Paul had sort of stressed to me that it shouldn't detract whether I qualify or not, whether I've had a good year or not, because I've obviously had my best performances in the Slams.  But still, it wouldn't have sat particularly well with me if I hadn't qualified because I felt like I really, you know, deserved it is probably the wrong word.  If you're not in the top 8, you don't deserve it.  But I felt like my results have warranted it.  I felt like I still had to prove it. So, yeah, fingers crossed, everything goes according to plan, you know, in December.  But it certainly -- not only has it been probably my best year professionally, but, again, still, I think it just motivates me even more because I think there are a lot of areas that I can still do a lot better in. I've had a few injuries -- few sort of bumps in the road from that point of view.  Again, it just emphasizes the point how I need to make sure that I don't get injured.  But it just motivates me for an even more successful next year.  And why not? 

Q.  Talking about your qualifying, you actually qualified with the second-most Grand Slam points. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.  I think that's the biggest and best events, are the Slams.  They're the ones that if you're going to play -- if you play well in, then obviously you're going to accumulate a lot.  That should take care of it. But, you know, it just goes to show, I think it was different this year.  I think there were 10 players or maybe 9 players that really not dominated, but there was such a big gap.  Whereas in the past, you look at how things have unfolded, it was more spread out. But it just goes to show that I played as well as I did in the Slams, but it was still touch-and-go. So, yeah, I think you want to -- I think it's something that Agassi does so well, that he's very specific about his schedule.  And each and every event that he comes in, he's ready to, you know, he's ready and 100 percent. You know, there were certain parts of the year where I don't think I did get that quite right.  I really struggled -- I played well on the clay, but I didn't go into the French in the best state physically.  I suppose last year was difficult with the Olympics and just the way that was situated in the schedule.  But, again, it's something that you've got to learn and try and make sure that you get right. Because if you're going to be playing and you're not 100 percent and you're not fresh and you're not sharp mentally, then I think it's inevitable that your performance is going to suffer. 

Q.  What do you feel you've changed over the past couple of years? 

TIM HENMAN:  Nothing, mental toughness.  I think the big aspect that I've worked on with Paul Annacone, my coach, is to be much more committed to my style of play.  It's a good thing that I've got options.  I'm much more comfortable from the baseline and I've got these options. But if I'm going to play my best and be the most successful, then I have to be committed to taking the ball on, moving forward, taking time away from most of the guys that like to stay on the baseline.  I think that's where I've made the biggest improvement.  But, still, I can still point to plenty of events where I wasn't quite as committed as I could have been, and sometimes I still won.  But if I'm really going to keep taking it to another level, I've got to be able to do that more and more consistently.  That's why there are times when if you play the right way and then you lose, then you can't second-guess yourself.  It's a good situation to kind of tip your hat and say, "Too good, I played the right way, I played well and you beat me."  The amount that we play, that's going to happen from time to time.

Q.  You beat Roger early on a hard court.  I guess it was indoors, though. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.

Q.  But it was a hard court. 

TIM HENMAN:  Sure. 

Q.  So what's the secret (laughter)? 

TIM HENMAN:  You need a bit of...

Q.  You're one of six guys. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think, again, if I can play my style, then it does match up pretty well.  Because if you just let him dictate and give him time to use all his shots, then you're going to do a lot of running. But, you know, a good example was the semis at the US Open.  I played okay that day.  I played my style.  I played the right way.  You know, he was way too good for me, and that just emphasizes how well and I think how much everyone's struggled against him.  He's been playing at such a high level. 

Q.  His standard this summer...

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  It's a difficult concept for others to try and get their head around, because it is, we're so judged in black-and-white terms of whether you win or whether you lose.  That was an occasion where I came off the court, and, sure, I was disappointed.  But I sat in the locker room afterwards and I was talking to Paul.  He said, "What did you think?"  I said, "I played fine, I played the right way.  But he was better than me on the day.  He played great."  It just goes to show, the way that he played in the final afterwards, just dominated Hewitt so much, I couldn't have any complaints. I had a great fortnight and I lost to the best player in the world.

Q.  Your matches that you played this year, the one in Paris was against Coria.  I don't know what you walked away saying then but it was probably different?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, different, very different, yeah.  But, I mean, the margin with my style on clay is so small...

Q.  That's what I mean. 

TIM HENMAN:  To be up a set and a break is obviously a good situation.  It didn't take much. My level did drop and his level got better.  I think that the disappointing factor was how long it took me to be able to not necessarily change something, but just to gain some momentum. Sure, I think just -- that was such a big breakthrough.  I'd never been past the third round in Paris.  Suddenly I was in the semis of a Slam outside of Wimbledon.  That was definitely a big, big moment for me in terms of my whole career, I think. 

Q.  Looking at you versus the rest of this field, you're certainly the oldest...

TIM HENMAN:  I know.  I was hoping Agassi was going to qualify (laughing).

Q.  You don't have a two-handed backhand.  You're a classic serve and volleyer. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, there's not many of those around.

Q.  I guess it speaks well, the year you've had. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think it does.  It just goes to show how the game has changed so much.  You know, it's what I talked about, the conditions, the weather conditions.  When it's been as cold as it has, it does -- I think it makes it pretty tricky for everyone, because the ball is basically cold. 

Q.  You mean here?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, sure.  So it's going to be interesting, I think, to see how everyone adapts to it.  It's the same for everyone. But...

Q.  Does this remind you of any conditions you've played in this year? 

TIM HENMAN:  We've played some night matches, I'm sure it's dropped a bit.  Hamburg.  Paris was quite...

Q.  Knowing Houston weather, I'm from here, it will blow over; it will warm up. 

TIM HENMAN:  Fingers crossed, I think everybody hopes so.

Q.  This is not really normal.  We were going to get a whole bunch of rain...

TIM HENMAN:  We'll just have to keep our fingers crossed. 

Q.  (Inaudible) Obviously, hopefully, you'll go into tournaments like this week fit. 

TIM HENMAN:  Exactly.  Then you have to be able to have the same mindset and say, "Well, this is the way I'm going to play."  It's shifting your mind from result-oriented to the process. 

Q.  This week in particular, do you look at it as a bonus week?

TIM HENMAN:  I think, yeah, that's a good way of putting it.  A, I want to avoid this whole issue of being result-oriented and focusing on winning and losing, because I think that's to my detriment; I don't play as freely.  And so certainly I've qualified for the Masters, it's a great achievement in itself, so let's go out and play the way that I have done when I've sort of released the pressure from me. You're exactly right.  It shouldn't need me to be 75 percent fit to be able to have that mindset, but this is something I need to improve.  Because if I can be 100 percent healthy but then have the same mindset, then surely that's going to give me a better opportunity of performing well. 

Q.  Presumably, you're able to go back and look at certain events.  Paris last year, your success there. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think so, yeah. 

Q.  Then obviously, playing Federer and Roddick.  That's the way you have to be. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it is.  I think that's great to have done that already, and I think I'll remind myself of that, to take confidence from that.  It's so exciting to have the opportunity.  As I said, I don't think there's anything to lose.  Quite the opposite, obviously, I have a lot to gain. 

Q.  Which one of your wins are the most satisfying? 

TIM HENMAN:  I mean, it's a good problem, there's been a few, yeah.  I mean, my mind would definitely go towards Paris because of the whole scenario.  I mean, there was a lot of drama to that match, but I would say, yeah, definitely, I think Roger was a difficult match because the first two sets I really wasn't -- I really didn't play well, but also I didn't play the right way.  I was letting him sort of dictate everything, and he was the one that was attacking me.  That was pretty disappointing. But to turn it around in those circumstances, and I'd lost...

Q.  (Inaudible). 

TIM HENMAN:  Fourth round, yeah, the quarters.  I played very, very well against Chela in the quarters.  I always knew I was going to play well against Chela because of the matchup and our styles.  I think Roger was more satisfying than Chela. You know, in a weird sort of way, the Tabara match in New York.  That was a guy ranked 140, and that was my most difficult match.  Besides the one I lost, that was my most difficult match. Again, I felt like I did a really good job of actually sticking to my guns and my game plan to say, "This is the way I'm going to play."  For a long time, he was beating me because he was playing better.  But to come through that, that was a big, important match. I think the nice thing, there's been a lot of matches where I can look back and say that was a huge improvement than any other stage in my career.  That's obviously a good sign, but it motivates me a lot for next year. 

Q.  First of all, I'd like to ask what happened in Paris. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I didn't play my best.  It was disappointing, being there as defending champion.  But certainly the goal of the indoor swing had been to qualify for this.  So, you know, it was great, it was really satisfying when I did qualify for the Masters Cup again. Now I'm looking forward to really trying to finish the year on a high note. 

Q.  You can say "always."  What happened this year to make it so consistent for you, especially at the French Open? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think, again, we talked about my style of play and I've been a little bit more committed to it, because it's been a positive that I have options to my game.  I'm more comfortable from the baseline.  But my strength has really been being aggressive and getting to the net and trying to take time away from my opponents. I think that's something that Paul Annacone, my coach, and I have worked a lot on. When I've been committed to that and stuck to it, that's, I think, when I've played my best.  I was able to do that pretty consistently in all the Grand Slams. 

Q.  You seem to be in a hard-hitting group.  Let's say it like this.  What do you expect from the match against Marat?

TIM HENMAN:  He's had an amazing finish to the year.  He had a good start and then he sort of struggled, didn't play quite so well for the middle part of the year. But going to the indoor swing, he's played great.  I'm sure he's going to be confident. But, you know, I think the majority of the players, they're playing the same way, they're hitting hard from the baseline but they don't like to come forward so much.  So, you know, I need to try and, you know, play my own game.  Hopefully, if I can do that, I've got a good chance. 

Q.  Against Roddick?

TIM HENMAN:  Again, he's someone I've had a pretty good record against but I think when you're playing in the World Championships, the best eight players of the year, you know the matches are going to be tough.  You're going to need to play well.  It's something I've done better, is just to worry about my own game, don't worry about how the others are playing or how they're going to play.  If I can play the right way, then that's going to give me the best chance of winning. 

Q.  How do you have to play against Coria?

TIM HENMAN:  Again, you know, he's another guy that's very comfortable from the baseline.  I think he likes time to hit his shots.  Again, I want to make sure that I play my style. You know, I think firstly if I do that, then it's going to give me the best chance.  But on the other side, if I play the right way and I lose, then you can't have any complaints from within.  Your opponent was too good on the day. 

Q.  Yesterday you played with Roger? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.

Q.  Everything fine, balls, court?  Last year there were a lot of complaints. 

TIM HENMAN:  I wasn't here last year, unfortunately.  But, no, I've had really good preparation.  I got here pretty early.  I wanted to make sure I had the opportunity of getting used to the conditions.  I got here on Wednesday night. It's been a little bit colder than I think I expected.  That affects the conditions.  I think it makes the balls a little bit heavier.  They don't fly around so much. I think most importantly I've had a chance to practice and, as you said, I'm going to play on Tuesday night against Roddick, so it's good to play last night under the lights and get a feel for it. 

Q.  Congratulations on qualifying.  How does it feel? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it feels great.  I've qualified before but it's been a few years since I've played in the Masters Cup.  I had some near-misses in the last couple of years.  I finished 8th one year and didn't qualify because of the Grand Slam winners rule. So, yeah, it was really satisfying when it went down to the final week, then the last week in the Masters Series in Paris, and I finally clinched my spot.

Q.  It's been a great year for you, hasn't it? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it has.  It's undoubtedly been my best year.  I think the most satisfying aspect has been the way that I've played in the Slams.  I played consistently at Wimbledon, I've had probably my best results there.  But I've never played as well as I thought I should have done in the other Slams. French Open, Roland Garros, was a big breakthrough.  I'd never been past the third round and I made another Slam semi.  I think that was really important not only for the year, but in the context of my whole year.

Q.  At the ripe old age of 30 or so, it must be even more satisfying. 

TIM HENMAN:  I think so, yeah.  I think -- I was hoping that Agassi was going to qualify because he would have brought the average age up a little bit with me. But it is, yeah, I think it just goes to show how much my game has continued to improve.  I think it's exciting for me for next year because I think, you know, my performance has been my best this year and I still feel that it can get much, much better.

Q.  How do you feel actually physically and mentally and all that coming into the tournament?  How confident do you feel?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I do.  I feel I didn't play particularly well in Paris, but I think one of the bonuses was that I was able to, you know, just have three or four days to almost sort of decompress.  There had been a lot of buildup going into Paris trying to qualify for here.  Once I had achieved that, I was able to really rest and relax and then come and make sure that I'm prepared properly here.  I feel like I've done that. So I'm just excited to have the opportunity of getting out there, and hopefully having a good week.

Q.  Finally, first match against Roddick. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's going to be an interesting one.  I've had a good record against him in the past.  But, you know, this is like a home tournament for him. So I'm going to need to play well, but I'm looking forward to it. 

Q.  In your preparation for these matches, do you ever sit down and watch tape of other players, watch their matches or watch yourself? 

TIM HENMAN:  I've watched some of -- you know, I haven't done it this week.  But there were times during the US Open when, you know, we got a tape of the previous match just to look at something.  And undoubtedly it can help. But I think in the overall area that I've made the biggest improvement is just, you know, really concentrating on my own game and being committed to the style so that I play my way.  And if I do that, then that's going to give me the best chance of winning.  If I play that way and I lose, then you can't have any complaints.  You say that your opponent was too good and move on. 

Q.  This year there's going to be quite a lot of wind, rain delays.  Nobody is going to like playing serve and volley.  I think in these conditions, your experience will help.  What do you think?

TIM HENMAN:  I think I've had good results outdoors.  I agree with some of those aspects.  I would say with the temperature being so cold, it does make it very, very slow because the balls just don't react as much as they would do.  So I think that makes it much harder to serve and volley. But, still, the overall game plan has got to be aggressive and try and take time away from my opponents.  And I do, I feel like it was important to have had three or four days to get used to the conditions.  I hit last night in the evening, under the lights.  I think that was important. 

Q.  One thing that I -- I watched the final. 

TIM HENMAN:  The final of where?

Q.  Wimbledon.  One thing Roddick did really well against Federer early on was that he just played everything to his backhand, just ran around, everything, everything.  It seems the backhand --

TIM HENMAN:  Who is this?  Roddick did this against Federer? 

Q.  Right.  The backhand started to break down.  Then he was trying to cover for it.  The serve went up a little bit.  Typically, that's the way you attack players.  Is that the way you work on it, find a weaker side?

TIM HENMAN:  Not really, no.

Q.  How do you go about it?

TIM HENMAN:  That's not my style.  If I'm just going to be standing on the baseline, trying to keep a ball going to the backhand, then I'm not playing to my strengths. 

Q.  What about serving and volleying to a weaker side?

TIM HENMAN:  But then you ask the question, why serve to the weakness, why don't you serve to the other side, then you can volley to the weakness.  There are lots of different tactics and lots of different styles.  I know that if I'm going to be aggressive, then I want to be dictating the play, whether that's hitting the backhand down the line to open up the court, if I'm chipping and charging on my opponent's second serve.  I think when you are talking about attacking a weakness, then I think your mind is moving away from your own game.  You know, I want to say, "Look, if I'm going to serve here, volley there, it doesn't matter what you do.  If I do do it well, then I think it's going to be better than you."  If I chip and charge 100 times on the second serve, I think the odds are that I'm going to win, you know, the majority, irrespective of what your opponent does. I think in the past I've almost been a little bit, what you're thinking of, worrying about my opponent's style.  Whereas now, I kind of just say "This is the way I'm going to play and we'll see what happens."

Q.  "Bring it to the table." 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, exactly. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT