ATP MASTERS SERIES- MADRID
October 20, 2004
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim.  
 
 
Q.  Some people found conditions difficult out there because the ball flies.  But you didn't seem to find it too difficult. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Uhm, I found it not the easiest.  It's my first win in Madrid, so it's obviously a good start.  It certainly does fly.  I think if you don't really commit to your shot and get a good clean strike, then your miss-hits are flying pretty excessively.  So I don't think it is the easiest conditions to play in.  But I felt that the way that I was serving the majority of the time, that can be in my favor.  And if I get forward, it's difficult to hit the passing shots because I think, as I said, it's flying around.  
 
Q.  Would you say it bothers the volleyer more than anybody else, these kind of conditions, the fact that the ball flies?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No.  I think it's an advantage to the volleyer, definitely.  To hit the passing shots, you've got very little margin for error.  You have to hit the ball quickly, because if you don't hit it quickly, then I'm going to be able to get to it.  Therefore, if you're going to hit it hard, you have to hit it very, very low, otherwise it's going to go out.  I think to do that consistently for the guy hitting the passing shots, it's difficult.  I think that being said, it's pretty obvious the way I should be playing.  
 
Q.  How relaxed were you last night, obviously playing your first game of the tournament, the fact that you're a top seed?  Did you manage to catch Michael Owen?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I did, yeah.  Absolutely.  I said to some of the people I've spoken to before, I was pretty surprised to be the top seed.  Obviously, a few players above me pulled out.  But I've been the top seed in tournaments before.  I've won tournaments being the top seed; I've lost in the first round.  So I think one of the aspects that I've done better this year is just to worry about my own performance.  It means my name was going to be at the top of the draw, but besides that it doesn't mean anything.  You know, if I didn't play well today, then I was going to lose.  But I played some good tennis.  It is, it's good to get that win under my belt.  
 
Q.  What was it like to be playing in Spain against a Spanish player like Costa?  How did you find the atmosphere?  Was it intimidating?  How do you find the atmosphere in general here in Madrid?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it's a fantastic tournament.  I think as indoor arenas go, this is probably one of the best that we play in.  The atmosphere was fine today.  But I think when I get off to a good start and I'm ahead 5-1, then certainly you don't let the Spanish sort of people, the Spanish supporters for Costa get too involved.  So, no, it's a lot of fun to be out there.  He's somebody that I've lost to before.  I've beaten him on a few occasions.  I think we both knew each other's game pretty well.  It was a question of who was going to play better on the day.  
 
Q.  Coming into this run of tournaments, how much have you consciously been trying to think back to Paris last year, how you were feeling during that week?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, there's an aspect of that because it's indoors, and this is obviously similar conditions.  If anything, I think back to sort of two years previously and before when I've been in the race for the Masters.  You know, that's clear that that's what we're playing for kind of thing.  In years gone by, I've felt like I've been the one that's chasing, and probably paid a little bit too much attention to that, whereas this year I've obviously played myself into a very good position.  You know, likewise, about being top seed, it's the same type of thing:  I just worry about my own game.  If I keep playing well, doing the right things, then I think I've got a good chance.  And if you win your matches, all those exterior things will take care of themselves. 
 
Q.  You escaped the model ball girls because you didn't play first match in the evening. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Disappointing (smiling).  
 
Q.  I wonder what your thoughts were about it in principle, this idea?  To be fair, there has been a protest from the Secretary of State for sex equality. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Really?  It's all getting a bit serious, isn't it?  
 
Q.  But what is your view of it?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it's something different, isn't it?  They certainly look good from where I've been sitting.  
 
Q.  Just now you were saying things were going well, you were 5-1 up.  It looked like you were heading for an incredibly easy win.  What exactly happened there?  Why did you suddenly go from serving for the set?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think he obviously held his serve at 5-1.  I think in the service games, I lost my physical -- my physical routine was the same, it's always the same, but it's probably more your mental routine, what's going on in between your ears.  And I don't think I was particularly focused on each and every point.  I didn't play those points particularly well at all, made life difficult for myself.  But I hit some good serves at the right time.  Certainly, if I had gone 5-All in the first set, then that would have been pretty disappointing.  But I managed to close out that first set.  I felt like, you know, my confidence grew after that.  
 
Q.  How are you feeling about your next match coming up, going into that?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Who do I play?  
 
Q.  It's not decided yet.  Possibly Ljubicic. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Is he winning? 
 
Q.  Yes?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think I've lost to him the last couple of times.  I lost to him in Doha, then I lost to him in Rotterdam.  I'd probably say it's the best anyone's ever served against me in Rotterdam.  This will be conditions that suit him well.  He's got a huge, huge serve.  I think that emphasizes the point that I have to take care of my serve because there won't be too many opportunities probably.  We'll just have to wait and see, you know.  He still has to get past Schuettler.  
 
Q.  How did you feel generally about your serve today?  You started with six aces your first two service games. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  As I said, those two service games that I lost, it wasn't really so much to do with my serve, I think it was much more to do with the routine mentally.  What was I trying to do on those points?  When I was clear and I picked my spot and I hit them, then I felt like I was very comfortable on my serve.  But for whatever reason, you get a bit distracted and you don't have a purpose to what you're trying to do, you don't really commit to it.  My rhythm and the consistency in those games were poor, and that's basically why I lost.  Sure, he hit some good shots, as well.  But I think if I can be a bit more disciplined, keep serving as aggressively, then hopefully I'll make myself difficult to break.  
 
Q.  As the top seed from No. 5, does that make a comment on what's going on with the long tennis season? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it probably emphasizes the point that it's unfortunate that, for whatever reason - I don't know the reasons why they pulled out, whether it's injury or what - but, again, it does emphasize how much tennis we play.  I think it's very unfortunate for a tournament like this because it's a relatively new event, but I think they've put on such a great tournament.  It's a great facility.  Behind the scenes I think we're so well looked after.  It's unfortunate for them that they've lost out on those players.  But there's still, I'd like to think, plenty of good ones to watch.  You know, hopefully if this isn't such a convenient week for people, then perhaps they can find a better one.  
 
Q.  I think it's something like 24 days since you last competed.  How is the back and the shoulder?  Were there any disadvantages in lack of match practice over that time?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, there was an element.  I felt a hundred percent about myself physically, with regards to my back and my shoulder.  But there was sort of a slight concern that I hadn't played matches for some time.  To have the Davis Cup on clay, it was pretty different type of tennis, given the conditions.  So in some respects, it felt like it was my first real match since New York.  I was aware of that coming in.  But, again, I think when you get off to the start as I did, then it just settles you down quicker.  You know, I was obviously happy to have come out with a win in the end.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT