US OPEN
September 11, 2004
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  Your trouble is you keep coming up against the very best player in the world in semifinals?

TIM HENMAN:  Yep.  Absolutely.  That was pretty clear today, I think, playing -- he's playing absolutely phenomenal tennis.  From a fellow competitor's point of view, you're always trying to find a way to sort of counteract the way that he plays.  It's so difficult to do, because he's so complete in, I think, every area. You know, he's certainly shown again, and I feel fairly confident he'll show again tomorrow why he's the No. 1 right now

Q.  How much has he improved since you beat him the last time you beat him?

TIM HENMAN:  I mean, I beat him in Rotterdam this year.  But in terms of the last 18 months, I guess, since he won Wimbledon for the first time, you know, his game has just -- this game's a lot about confidence.  But when you've got the shots that he has, got so many areas to sort of fall back on and so many areas that he can hurt you with.  It starts with his serve.  I think it's so deceptive that he doesn't really serve particularly quickly in terms of miles per hour, but his variation, his placement is as good as any.  You feel like you're just trying to get the ball back.  And you put the ball back on the court and he's ready to start running you ragged with his forehand, which is so heavy. He's setting the standards for everyone right now.  Lots of people just trying to catch up. 

Q.  Fancy him against Lleyton?

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.

Q.  On occasion against someone like him, you need a bit of a break.  When you broke him back in that first set, he then comes up with a great lob.  Do you begin to think...

TIM HENMAN:  Well, not quite at that stage, but pretty soon after.  I think with my style of game, you have to -- every second serve, you've got to try and take advantage of it.  But the way that you're doing that -- sure, if you can chip and charge, it's not so high-risk, but from the ad box, you feel that you are taking some business risks if you're going to come in and try and put pressure on him.  And that's the predicament because you feel that sometimes the more risks you're going to take, the more mistakes you make and you make life easier for him.  Then you try to play a little bit more conservatively and consistently.  If you're hitting the ball in the middle of the court, then he's just going to pick you off. So it's a tough balancing act. 

Q.  Are you still happy reaching the semis? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I'm disappointed losing right now, as I always am.  But upon reflection of this tournament and the way it's turned around for me and how I struggled so much early on and the nature of the matches that I won, you know, I'm very, very pleased with the tournament.  I've never been past the 16s here.  So to be in my first semi here is something that I'm really pleased with.  And in context of the year, it puts me in a great position.  I've got great opportunities coming up.  I think indoors is one of my best conditions to play in.  You know, I'd like to think that the Masters Cup in Houston, which has been a big goal of mine, is now even more likely. 

Q.  Was the back a bit of a problem again beginning of the third?

TIM HENMAN:  Not really.  I mean, I think he had a lot more to do with it (smiling), a lot more to do with my problems. I definitely need to have a rest for a few days just to give it a chance to settle down.  I think it's much, much better.  I wouldn't say, you know, it was a factor in any way today. But it's been sort of physically and mentally demanding when you're dealing with it the whole time.  It would be nice to have a few days' rest and I want to make sure that I'm, you know, 100 percent for the Davis Cup. 

Q.  Not a great day at the net for you.  How much of that is Roger and how much is just Tim Henman not having a great day?

TIM HENMAN:  I think more to do with him, whereas the other opponents I've played, when I can attack, I feel that if I'm hitting a good quality approach, then I'm going to win, you know, 70, 80 percent of the points.  Whereas against Roger, his sort of versatility, his hands skill, even if he's not in a great position, he times the ball, has such great feel, he can still put it past you.  That's, again, when you start pushing for a little bit much.  You start going for a little bit extra on the volleys and you miss from time to time.  That's the way it goes.

Q.  There's already some talk about comparing Roger with Pete, even though Roger, of course, is still so young.  But on a slow, slow court outdoors, if you had to absolutely totally choose between Pete and Roger...

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think, again, they're not totally different generations, but the game, again, has changed.  You know, when Pete was -- when the conditions were a bit quicker and Pete was serving well, there was very little that you could do.  But I just think with Roger's game, I played Pete on a number of occasions, you just felt like, you know, you could hang on to your own serve because Pete would perhaps, you know, miss a few returns and, you know, make a few unforced errors. But now, I think the conditions being slower, you talk about Roger's game being so complete, you know, he probably feels that he can break every game as well as hold every game.  I think that's what makes the combination so difficult.  You know, only time will tell.  I think it is early stages, but he's got a hell of a platform to build from.

Q.  Roger, obviously, has a long way to go.  But when he finally retires, hangs them up, what do you think his chances --

TIM HENMAN:  Oh, absolutely.  There's every opportunity, yeah.  There's so many variables, you know, whether injuries and, you know, who knows what's going to happen in his game.  But right now, you know, he's playing phenomenally well.  I think he's got every chance to go down as one of the best ever.

Q.  You wouldn't be surprised if he broke his record at the end?

TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.  It's a long way to go, isn't it.  He's won three and he's got 14 to compete.  I wouldn't bet against it. 

Q.  You say that you think that the game is changing.  What do you think you personally have to do to stay among the best?

TIM HENMAN:  I think the thing that really highlighted it today, I just felt that the variation on -- because I've worked, you know, very hard on my serve.  The way that I've been taking care of my serve has been great in this tournament.  I've been serving, you know, bigger and more consistently.  But I think it highlighted to me the variation that Roger has.  You know, there were times when I'm serving big, then I hit a kick wide.  That's a type of variation. But I think there's, in comparison to Roger's, he has sort of four or five different, and that's definitely an area that I want to continue working on.

Q.  If it comes down to desire to change, do you still have the burning desire to bring constant changes?

TIM HENMAN:  Absolutely.  It's so much fun, you know.  Let's just, you know, go back 53, 54 weeks and think what's happened in that time.  You know, I was ranked 40 or whatever, and all of a sudden I sit here and I've won a Masters Series, I've been in a final of a Masters Series, in the semis of two Slams outside Wimbledon.  My desire and my motivation, my fitness in general, I think, is getting better.  So that's what's very, very motivating. So, yeah, that's, with regards my desire, that hasn't changed at all.

Q.  Has it surprised you, you hit 30 and...

TIM HENMAN:  I think in terms of -- well, it was a hiccup, obviously, having my shoulder problems.  That was a pretty frustrating time. But, again, the way that my career has developed, you're talking about Hewitt and Federer and Ferrero and Safin being that good at 21 or 20 or whatever it is, you know, I was breaking into the Top 100 at 22.  So it was inevitable that my game was going to mature later.  I don't think I'm greatly surprised.  I'm just excited about, you know, how well I have been playing and, you know, the opportunities that I think I've got coming up. 

Q.  There were some great, spectacular points in that match. 

TIM HENMAN:  Thanks. 

Q.  Could you assess how the crowd were really appreciating what was going on?

TIM HENMAN:  Well, I hope so, yeah, I think.  Again, that's something I've noticed more and more about my game is the contrast.  Because there are so few players that are coming to the net and volleying, and I think people do enjoy seeing that, and the support that I've had - I think I've always have had here - has been great. But it's been for a pretty limited time, having never really been in the second week.  So they've had a bit more to see.  I'd liked to have played a bit longer today, but my Swiss friend had other ideas (smiling). 

Q.  Paul Annacone and you have worked well together this year.  What have you learned most from him?

TIM HENMAN:  I think, yeah, mentally, he's helped me be a little bit clearer in my mind about the way that I want to play and how I'm actually going to, you know, use the attributes that I've got, the shots that I've got. Again, it's been a pretty -- fairly short period of time in really the number of weeks, the number of tournaments and the number of weeks that we've had together. Again, I just want to keep building from that and see where that takes me.

Q.  On the first day of the Agassi-Federer match, before the weather got bad, Andre had some really good stretches of taking Federer's ball early and trying to get it back in his face quickly to control the point.  How many players out there are capable of taking the ball early like that and having a shot against him?

TIM HENMAN:  Not many.  I mean, you look at Andre's technique and his hand-eye coordination.  That's what makes him the player that he is, because he can take the ball so early and take the time away. But there's probably -- I don't think there's anyone that hits the ball like that.  Sure, if you take Roddick's serve and Agassi's returns and my volleys and Hewitt's speed and tenacity, then you've probably got a good chance against Federer (laughter).  That's a lot of people involved in, you know, one player. 

Q.  The Davis Cup, the indoor season, are you convinced your back is going to be okay?  It's not going to be an ongoing problem? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, they've -- it's another thing that I need to work on, unfortunately.  But, you know, I don't think it's anything too serious.  I'm sure just playing the (inaudible).  If I can play these matches, play three five-setters, whatever it's been, four-set matches, sure, it wasn't great at the beginning of the tournament but it's been okay.  I need to take care of it and probably do a little bit more stretching...

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

TIM HENMAN:  Not for a little while.  I think I can go without that, but I certainly don't envision it's going to be a problem because I am going to make sure that I take care of it.

Q.  What are you most proud of as you go back?

TIM HENMAN:  I think, again, the performance in the Grand Slam outside of Wimbledon because it was something that I've talked about and was pleasantly surprised with the outcome in Paris.  And, again, this just is another -- you know, it's a good achievement and it certainly gives me, you know, confidence to keep building and keep, you know, working in the direction that I am. 

Q.  In the past it's been suggested that maybe Wimbledon was your only real shot at winning a Slam.  Do you think this year has shown that perhaps it could happen somewhere else?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think so.  I think, you know, the way that I've played on those two surfaces, the French and here in New York, it definitely gives me a lot of confidence to play well outside of Wimbledon, because it never really happened before.  I'd been in the 16s, I think, five times at other Slams and never got past that.  That was disappointing. But in the context of the conditions, this court - and I wouldn't say that I'm exaggerating - I would say that this is probably twice as fast as Wimbledon.  That's an aspect that has changed.  I would say Wimbledon is probably one of the slowest tournaments of the year now, with the way that the conditions are. So there's some big adjustments that you have to make there, and I think Paul was talking to Sampras a couple of months ago and Pete had obviously watched a bit of Wimbledon.  He just couldn't believe that when Federer beat him there, he serve and volleyed first and second serve for the entire match.  I think, you know, the stat was that Federer serve and volleyed 10 percent on his first serve this year at Wimbledon.  I can't remember what year Federer beat Sampras, but it's not that long ago.  It's amazing how things have changed. 

Q.  As a member, you could obviously have a word with the ground committee.  Have they ever asked you... 

TIM HENMAN:  No.  But they've had it on several occasions.

Q.  Does it surprise you then that they don't actually go to help Britain's major player? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yep, yeah, yeah.

Q.  It does surprise you.  Are you going to ask them again?

TIM HENMAN:  Probably.  I think the ball as well.  And who makes the ball?  And what racquet do I use?  (Smiling).

Q.  Are you going to keep using that racquet? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yes.

Q.  If you could boil down to just one or maybe two concepts, just one or two words, that have been behind your great turnaround in the past 50-plus weeks, what has been the key?

TIM HENMAN:  I think mentally the style of play.  Style of play that I've played.  I'm serving a lot better.  I think those are two key areas.

Q.  Paul has played a key role?

TIM HENMAN:  No, no credit towards him, just me (smiling).

Q.  As one of the older statesmen --

TIM HENMAN:  Veteran.  Come on, say it (smiling).

Q.  If someone asked you to suggest someone to replace Mark Miles, what would your response be? 

TIM HENMAN:  I think it should be you (smiling). 

Q.  No, serious question. 

TIM HENMAN:  That wasn't a serious answer (laughter)?  I don't know.  I don't know if there are any sort of candidates out there.  I think it's someone that obviously has got some tennis knowledge but, you know, also a good mind... we'll have to wait and see.

Q.  Can you talk about Andy Murray. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's great to be in the final here.  I think more importantly, you know, his results away from that, because I knew that his knee hadn't been great and around Wimbledon time, that was his sort of comeback.  Then after that he went and played the futures, and he was in a semi and won two events and his ranking is at 400 or something. You know, I like the way that -- he's playing some big matches here in the Junior events, but I think he knows where his, you know, where the bread and butter of his career is going to be, and he's already taking some big strides, and that's very important.

Q.  He's been very enthused that you've taken time out after each of his matches to take time to talk with him. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I've seen him and I've seen Beech.  Beech has been around and about.  We've had plenty of examples of kids that have done well in the Juniors but haven't made that transition.  Not only his game, but between the ears, he knows what he's doing. He works hard and I think that's a good combination. 

Q.  How hurt were you by the media reaction to your defeat at Wimbledon? 

TIM HENMAN:  No more so than I am every year. 

Q.  Right (laughter). 

TIM HENMAN:  (Laughing).  I mean, it goes with the territory, doesn't it?  I appreciate that there's this fairly unique spotlight that is involved at Wimbledon, and obviously to do with me.  And, again, you know, it's out of my control.  You know, I go out there to do the best I can on the court and that's always the way. I think the time when I get frustrated is when people, you know, expect more than that.  You know, if there's negativity and criticism, I don't think it's worth, you know, paying a great deal of attention to. 

Q.  You said that you would try to keep up with Roger.  Are you happy that within your game, within your possible improvement, you can get up there to really keep up with him?

TIM HENMAN:  I mean, at the moment, it's an issue for everybody.  You know, he's beaten me 3, 4 and 4 today.  Probably could have been 3, 4 and 2. You know, he was different class.  But, again, you know, I look at the way my game's developing, and I'm absolutely, you know, doing the best I can.  That curve has been great in the last 12 months, and I'm going to keep doing that.  You know, whether I can compete with him, I don't know, but I'm going to do the best I can.  I think that's what everyone's trying to do because he's head and shoulders above everyone right now.

Q.  When you first came into the Wimbledon semifinals, it was all new.  Even Paris may have been a new experience. 

TIM HENMAN:  It was.

Q.  Did today feel like a normal match?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.  Even though it was my first semi in New York, I think -- and again, I've been playing this game long enough to be experienced enough that I'm not going to be fazed by a great deal. You know, it would be a great thing to be able to experience a Grand Slam final and, you know, see whether I walk out on the court and that feels like a totally different experience.  I'd be surprised. You know, those are the types of things that motivate me, you know.  I want to see whether I can do that. 

Q.  In the past, I mean, couple of fourth rounds in previous tournaments, because you hadn't been past that stage, you were going into unknown territory. 

TIM HENMAN:  I think, again, you can almost make too big of an issue of it.  Certainly when I was in the third round in Paris, you know, that was as far as I'd been.  I'd been there sort of four times I think. Again, in the past, I probably would have, you know, thought about that and said, "This is my opportunity to improve on that, and I'm trying harder."  Again, I think that's an area I'm a bit better at - I'm just concentrating on the way I'm playing. When I played in the fourth round here against Kiefer, it just, you know, it didn't really -- it never came into my mind that this was -- I was aware of it coming into the tournament, but once I was on the court, I never really gave it a second thought.  That match ended a bit strangely.  But then it was, "It's good, I'm in the quarters.  Now I've got past the fourth round."  I think that's an area I'm a bit better at now.

Q.  In this country, tennis is the seventh, eighth, ninth most popular sport.  Is there a built-in advantage that American players have in terms of expectations from the public at-large?

TIM HENMAN:  Perhaps, yeah.  I think I've noticed that.  As I've come to these other Slams and done better, I've never really done well enough to experience the second weeks, but, yeah, it's sometimes is easier playing away from home when the interest and the expectation and just your sort of notoriety away from the courts is much, much less. 

Q.  (Inaudible) more victories?

TIM HENMAN:  Maybe, yeah.  But, again, those types of things, nothing really you can do about them, is there? 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT