US OPEN
September 2, 2004
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tim.


Q.  How are you feeling now and how were you feeling during the match?

TIM HENMAN:  Good.  I mean, I'm improving I think is the best way to describe it.  I think my back is definitely a lot better.  I think I'm gaining more confidence in it because not only -- it was pretty sore for a few days.  I think just the fact that I didn't really feel I was able to bend and push off for certain shots.  I think I'm now probably able to do that a lot better.  I thought my movement was okay.  It was a bit rigid at times.  But I felt like I actually, you know, gained a bit more belief in it.  You know, I needed to.  It was a totally different match obviously from my first round.  He can move the ball around from the baseline a lot more, so it was important that I was moving a little bit better.


Q.  How many more sessions did you have with the chiropractor after your first-round match?

TIM HENMAN:  We went in -- yeah, we went and saw her that afternoon, and then I didn't practice yesterday, I just went and saw her.  Yeah, I feel like I'm getting there.  I'm feeling more humane.


Q.  Are you going to have more treatment?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  I'll probably go back tomorrow, I think, and just make sure that everything is where it should be.  Yeah, it's good, you know, I've given myself an opportunity.  If I'd have spoken to you guys on Sunday morning, I mean, I would have very much doubted I was even going to bother trying to play.  So, you know, I'm pleased that I've fought through it.  You know, add to the fact I'm pretty happy with my game.  I think I'm hitting the ball well.  I think I served very well today, and I needed to against him.  He's really -- he's an awkward guy.  I've played him before.  He's very, very flashy.  Can hit some incredible shots.  Good to finish it off.


Q.  You were totally dominant in the first two sets.  Third set, he raised his game a bit, but what happened from your point of view?

TIM HENMAN:  Again, I think you're right, I was dominant, and I was dominant in the early part of the third set.  But I never was able to take one of those opportunities.  I had breakpoints on a couple of his service games.  Probably in total had three, four, maybe five chances.  You know, I hit couple of good shots.  Hit one very good return at 30-40, and he ran, hit a great forehand down the line.  As sometimes is the case, he takes one and takes it.  I felt that mentally, you know, I was pretty relaxed and I wasn't going to get frustrated if he started to play a bit better.  You know, likewise, in the beginning of the fourth set, you know, he calls the trainer, you know, I'm thinking perhaps he's going to start moving a little slower.  You know, comes out and plays great first three games.  But I still felt pretty comfortable.  You know, that was a great tiebreak to finish it off, as I did.  I played some really good stuff.


Q.  He's had his fair share of injury problems.  Tabara was having treatment.  Is the swing through these hard courts a very tough ask physically?

TIM HENMAN:  I don't think you just sort of pinpoint this part of the season and say, "Why is this tougher than any other?"  I just think it's an accumulation.  I heard some of the people talking about it on TV yesterday.  There's so much tennis, and people are playing a lot.  When you're on this type of surface, if there's a little weakness, if you're a little bit vulnerable in an area, you're going to be found out.  Because it is, it's very, very tough on your body.  You know, I think we've been saying for years and years about trying to shorten the season.  You know, not only give people a chance to recuperate and avoid injuries, but also actually to be able to practice with a purpose of trying to improve their game, because it's not easy to always do that when you're competing so soon.


Q.  Is it also the technique that's evolved because of racquets?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, definitely.


Q.  People with more classic technique might be slightly more protected than some.

TIM HENMAN:  I think I am.  I've had a few niggles.  But touch wood, over my career I've stayed fairly injury-free.  If you look at the slams, how many I've missed, I've missed very few.  But certainly I think you look at the technique of the way the game has changed, all this open stance business, you look at guys that get problems with the hips and probably the lower back.  Then you look at the serving, longer racquets, I think if you've got a longer lever, it's got a bit more strain on shoulders and elbows.  I think at times it can be a bit of a battle to stay healthy.  But that's all part of the change.

Q.  Was there a specific diagnosis?

TIM HENMAN:  I don't think so.  I think this was a compensation for the problems I'd had in my right side.  I think in hindsight, looking back, I wouldn't be surprised if another game had something to do with it, with a small white ball.  You tee up (smiling).  After Wimbledon, you know, I was pretty tired.  I took some time off and I played quite a lot of golf.  I think upon reflection, I was pretty stiff and I was doing quite a lot of stretching.  I think, you know, just a different movement you're not quite used to, I think that probably had something to do with it.


Q.  So you'll be giving up golf altogether?

TIM HENMAN:  No.  I'm going to train harder so I can make sure I can play golf (smiling).


Q.  Was it worth it?

TIM HENMAN:  Probably not now.  But I'm pleased, I feel like I've got it back under control.


Q.  Third round, Tabara.  You played him twice before.  Thoughts on that one?

TIM HENMAN:  I played him in Brighton.


Q.  And Cincy.

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think I was expecting Fish to come through that.  You know, he's been playing well recently.  But I saw the last three games, and Tabara looked like he was playing well.  I'm just pretty pleased to be in the situation.  You know, he's a good player, but I think I've got to make sure that I, you know, take care of my game.  And, again, if I can do that, hopefully feel even freer on the court, then I've got a good chance.


Q.  It's been more than three years since you played him.  What do you recall he does?

TIM HENMAN:  I haven't really seen him play.  I haven't seen him play so much recently.  But he's one of these, you know, Czech guys who's very solid from the baseline and a good mover.  You know, not altogether dissimilar to Novak.


Q.  He looked very promising, then never really progressed, did he?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I don't really know so much about what his sort of career highs are and what his results have been.  But, you know, he's a good player.  I don't even know if he was a direct or did he qualify?


Q.  Qualified.

TIM HENMAN:  He qualified, yeah.  Obviously playing well.


Q.  Mostly played challengers this year.

TIM HENMAN:  He beat Fish.  Fish has been playing very well.  I think these conditions suited him well.  He's obviously got a lot of confidence having come through that match.  But I'm looking forward to it.


Q.  Regardless of the outcome on Saturday, when you get to Monday, and Tim Henman is 30, will that seem like a strange situation?  You don't look 30.  Will that be a bit odd, do you think?

TIM HENMAN:  Yup (laughter).


Q.  Do you feel like a bit of an elder statesman?

TIM HENMAN:  It is only a number after all.  I must admit, I've been thinking about it, yeah.  It doesn't sort of -- I don't think -- yeah, doesn't seem quite right if you ask me (smiling).  I certainly don't feel 30.  Yeah, time flies, doesn't it?


Q.  Have you seen promos for the movie Wimbledon?

TIM HENMAN:  No, I haven't.


Q.  Has anyone asked you if there's any resemblance between you and this character that Paul plays, an English tennis player, is he based on you?

TIM HENMAN:  I don't know.


Q.  Were you consulted?

TIM HENMAN:  No, no.  No parts.  Don't think I'll be watching it either (smiling).


Q.  Why not?

TIM HENMAN:  Uhm, the story line doesn't really appeal to me.


Q.  When you think back to Bercy last year, you played without pressure.  You played without pressure at the French.  Playing pretty much without pressure now.

TIM HENMAN:  You're exactly right.  That's something that I've talked about and still something I'm trying to grasp, is the fact that trying harder is not necessarily trying better.  You know, as I've said, there are times when I've wanted to win too much, and my focus has been on winning and losing, whereas I'm getting better about, you know, just having a purpose of what I'm trying to do out there in the matches.  But, again, you know, it does -- it is sort of highlighted when I go on the court and I'm just unsure about whether I'm going to be able to finish the match or whether I'm going to start the match, and all of a sudden, you know, there's not even the slightest bit of concern about winning or losing because I'm just thinking, "Well, am I physically fit to play?"  You know, it's all sort of an interesting perspective to have, and it's something that, again, I need to keep improving.  Because I think when I'm on the court in that frame of mind, I'm pretty relaxed, I'm playing well.


Q.  You talk about being relaxed.  In Paris you said the big bonus is that you can basically do whatever you want.  What's the difference between there and here?  Is it the same here?

TIM HENMAN:  Well, it's different, again, because there's definitely a different feel to the city.  Again, I'm left to my own devices a little bit more obviously.  You know, again, I talk about it now.  I still sort of question my demeanor on the court at Wimbledon.  You know, I would say, you know, I'm still a little bit unsure because in the early rounds, in my first rounds, I was trying to be very relaxed.  It was just a struggle.  And then I'm, you know, trying to get more, you know, show a little bit more emotion and get a little bit more fired up, but that's not really the way I'm playing my best tennis.  I don't know the answer to it.  It's something I need to, you know, keep working at.


Q.  Would you be best letting it come naturally however you play there, just go out there, do your best, see how it goes?

TIM HENMAN:  You know, that's in an ideal world.  But I think given the scenarios and the situation at Wimbledon, that's easier said than done.


Q.  Would you say your state of mind is very similar here to at the French Open?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it is.  There are similarities, definitely.  You know, I feel like I'm doing pretty well.  Because of the situation, because I know how I felt on Sunday morning, it is, it feels like everything's a bonus.  Now I'm feeling better physically.  So do I start trying now?  You know, just see what happens.  I think that was relevant at the French.  You know, I was very relaxed.  I'll just try to keep that going, keep that attitude going.


Q.  Were you feeling a little discomfort today?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I'm still not a hundred percent.  I still feel if there's low volleys...  Whereas before, I'd be very keen to take the ball out of the air.  At the moment, I'll take a half volley because I don't have to get down so low.  Sometimes when I've got to change direction quickly, I think I'm still a little bit stiff, but also I'm a bit afraid as well mentally.  I'd like to think that I'm going to have a good practice tomorrow and try and, you know, hit some of those shots to free up myself physically and mentally.


Q.  How did you shape up yesterday morning after the Karlovic match?

TIM HENMAN:  I felt, yeah, I really felt that that match helped me actually feel looser than I did before I start.  That was a good sign.  I think then if my back had really seized up afterwards, I think then there would be some concerns there's still an issue there.  But because my lower back felt so good, I believed that, you know, it's on the improvement.


Q.  Does she pummel you around very much or is it gentle manipulation?

TIM HENMAN:  Debbie Kleinman, this is?


Q.  Yes.

TIM HENMAN:  No, I mean, I don't think if you're going to be manipulated and it's really sort of aggressive, then I find that you're so tense it doesn't really work.  But I think she's got so much experience, she's worked with so many different people, you know, whether it's your neck or your hips, yeah, I mean, it has to be somewhat aggressive, but it's definitely been working.


Q.  Getting the bones to crack basically?

TIM HENMAN:  Well, yeah, it does end up cracking, I think.  Yeah, it's about doing it the right way, because I've certainly had manipulations in the past where perhaps the technique hasn't been quite so good, and that stays with you a long, long time.


Q.  The back problem, you've been able to rationalize, it could have been the golf, whatever.  People often say when you have a good run like at the French, you often feel the benefits at a tournament quite later on, the benefits that you've had, the stamina building.

TIM HENMAN:  I think some of the mental issues.  We've got to be fit, because we're playing all the time.  But I certainly thought to myself before this one, well, I felt pretty horrendous before the French, and I gave it a try, and hung in there, and good things happened.  You know, that was my purpose of going on the court for the first match, because I thought, "Well, you never know.  If I can find a way to get through this, I might start feeling better."  I'm definitely feeling better now, and I'm through two rounds.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT