TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 6, 2004
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Great start, Tim, and then things didn't go right in the second set. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  No.  I certainly played, you know, probably as good a set of tennis I played on clay.  You know, second and third sets he, you know, certainly raised his level and started to play, you know, so aggressively and so consistently.  And, you know, in those types of conditions, it's, you know, it's very tough to sort of make an impact in his game.  He's hitting a lot of first serves and trying to block the ball back.  You know, the majority of the time he's then setting up and dictating with his forehand.  So, you know, then on my serves, I felt like I hit a lot of, you know, good shots and they, you know, nullified a little bit.  It was just very difficult to make an impact out there.  
 
Q.  Might you look back and think at the second game of the second set, when you had that smash on the baseline, "Try something else"?  I know it's difficult with hindsight. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think I should have hit the approach shot behind him because he's charging to the open court.  If I go behind him, there's no way he's changing direction.  But, you know, those are the shots  -- that's the position you want to be in.  So once you're in that position, you back yourself to make it.  You know, I missed it.   You know, I'd like to think that I'd make it, but on that occasion I didn't.  That's just sport for you, I think.  
 
Q.  You've had a lot of matches on clay. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Hmm. 
 
Q.  You feel as though the game is going the right direction?  You have a tough week next week. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  But this endurance test has proven to be...
 
TIM HENMAN:  I, you know, I played some really good tennis today.  As I said, I think in the conditions, I lost to the better player.  It's going to be a tough task, but, you know, I think I knew the right way to play it, but I wasn't able to do it quite well enough because, you know, he played very consistently and aggressively.  You know, all credit to him.  I don't, you know, don't really have, you know, so many complaints.  I was out there trying to use all my game, and in the first set I played to probably as high a level as I could play.  I did that for a set, but it wasn't, obviously, long enough to get two sets out of it.  
 
Q.  The conditions of playing in Monte-Carlo, Rome, Paris and Hamburg are very different.  Which one are the best for you on clay, do you think? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Well, again, I think, you know, like a lot of these events, it is dictated by the weather.  You can have great weather in all the places, and, you know, it can be cold and wet as it was today.  I think historically, this has been the quickest one  - Paris, actually.  Paris seems to have got a little bit slower.  But if it's cold and wet like this, it doesn't matter where you are - it's going to be pretty slow.  
 
Q.  Got a good one on the back side.  Did that give you any satisfaction?
 
TIM HENMAN:  He nearly got me on the next point, unfortunately.  But I think, you know, in my opinion, you don't really want to get too analytical right now.  I've been playing some good tennis.  I've had, you know, another positive week, and, you know, I lost today.  I think it's just as simple as that.  I feel good about my game, and I'll just be trying to build on it next week in Hamburg.  But, you know, I feel very optimistic going into Paris.  I think having never been past the third round, I feel, you know, really motivated to improve on that.  I think now, with my present clay court game, I should be looking further than that. 
 
Q.  Three matches in Monte-Carlo, the shoulder was a bit stiff.  How is it now?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, I mean, it's fine.  There's no comparison really with the workload that I had in Monte-Carlo with the singles and the doubles and the nature of my matches.  You know, it's been pretty straightforward, just the, you know, two sets on Monday and then two and three the last couple of days.  It's been fine.  
 
Q.  If this match had been at Roland Garros over five sets, would you have been confident after three of still being able to win it?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No.  Not in those conditions, no (smiling).  
 
Q.  If I can ask a question, a different question about the ATP Tour in general, do you think there's a problem with injuries with a lot of the top players missing a lot of events?  If so, do you think there's anything to be done about it?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It goes in cycles.  You know, with the number of players that are playing the ATP Tour, there's always going to be guys that are getting injured.  And sometimes, when a couple of top players get injured at the same time, then that is brought to the forefront of people's attentions.  And, you know, I think with the amount that we compete, it's always going to be  an issue.  But from an individual standpoint, you have to make sure that you take good care of your body because, you know, if you're not 100 percent healthy, you're just not going to be able to compete at this level.  
 
Q.  You said the conditions were pretty grim, and they were.  Although it seemed - I'm sitting next to one of the world's great weather watchers - seemed to buck up a bit sort of halfway through the second set.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Hmm. 
 
Q.  Did it get noticeably warmer out there or was it still just..?
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's a very optimistic and positive... 
 
Q.  Well, one can try. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  Not really, no.  I mean, when you're talking about the temperature  - I don't know what the temperature is out there  - and just the moisture in the court, you get very little out of the conditions, you know.  Serves, early on in the week, you feel would be really getting up and you'd get the guy high on his backhand or something.  He's standing back and just hitting returns waist-high and swinging away as hard as he can, because you lose that sort of energy out of the ball. So, I mean, it perhaps did pick up marginally, but not quite enough to help me.  
 
Q.  Will Paul join you in Paris?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Have you spoken to him at all?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Hmm, yeah.  Every day, yeah. 
 
Q.  Every day?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  With the time difference...
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, no, I normally sort of speak the night before.  So we talk about the match that I've just played and the match that I'm going to play the following day.  And, again, I think it's  -- something we talked about, for me, I think this balance works really well.  I don't want somebody there all the time, and, you know, I think he understands the game and my game so well that he knows what's going on and how the players play.  So, you know, I look forward to meeting up with him again in Paris and, obviously, he'll be present for the whole grass court season.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT