TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 3, 2004
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Well, Tim, after the first two games, things settled down.  Things got better?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  Little bit of a slow start.  And from sort of the  -- after the first, you know, three games, the level of tennis, I thought, was really, really good.  It's one of those scenarios where, you know, my first-round match in Monte-Carlo, I was playing so much worse than that, and, you know, today playing much better and I could have easily lost the first set because I think both of us were playing some good tennis.  The 5-all game, I think, was -- proved critical.  We both played some really great points and had to stay mentally strong.  I won that game, and really took advantage from then on.  So it was a good -- I'm pleased with the win.   
 
Q.  He's an unusual player, isn't he? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Absolutely.  His shots are a little bit unorthodox, but very, very effective.  I was watching his first-round match, actually, in quallies, obviously had no idea that I was going to play him.  He played a tough match against Dupuis.   It was a different type of feeling today mentally that, you know  -- in Monaco I was very relaxed and felt like there was really nothing to lose.  I was just, you know, very loose on the court.  Then, today, it's difficult to have that same attitude when you're playing, you know, a qualifier who's ranked, you know, 95; you had a good week in Monte-Carlo; you get to build on it.  But I think that was the important aspect, that I was able to sort of stay relaxed and be very clear in my mind how I wanted to play and, obviously, played to a good level. 
 
Q.  Is that just part of the learning process of this more relaxed way? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's not always -- it's never  -- you can't always be, you know, that outwardly relaxed, but I think you've got to find a way mentally just to, you know, to be clear in what you want to do.  I think, you know, tactically I worked out his game pretty well.  Sometimes the better and the faster I hit the ball, the better he was playing.  I stayed patient, played some good, long rallies, changed the pace and, you know, that's sort of a satisfying aspect for me.  
 
Q.  I was just going to say --
 
TIM HENMAN:  Only English questions, sorry (smiling).  
 
Q.  Only English? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah, I don't...(smiling). 
 
Q.  I have an English question.
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, no.  Only English people, sorry (laughter.)  Here in Rome, you have to... 
 
Q.  I've forgotten my question (laughter).
 
TIM HENMAN:  Go on then.  Ask your question now.  Better be a good one (smiling). 
 
Q.  You are the tennis player who has the most journalists following you. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I know.  I'm unlucky, I'm unlucky, aren't I (smiling)?  
 
Q.  Are you able to read all the things they are producing about you?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Everything, everything (smiling).  
 
Q.  You read everything? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, no (smiling).  
 
Q.  Now a question you cannot answer.  Do you have, by chance, one or two favorite writers? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  (Smiling).  Yeah, no...(laughter). 
 
Q.  Go on, then.
 
TIM HENMAN:  I'd have to name one that is no longer present.  It's difficult.  I think it's great that tennis has so much interest at home and, you know, I have a lot of press interest.  I think that's good for the game at home, and we need to take advantage of that because tennis is still -- the standard of play is not good enough.  And when you ask the favorite, you know, it was sad that John Parsons died last week.  He'd have to go down as my favorite, coming from the same county where I was born.  As all these guys know, he'll be sorely missed.  
 
Q.  Not one of them wrote a biography of you?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Not really, no.  Not really.  Some guy wrote one on me and Rusedski a couple years ago, but it was pretty bad (smiling).  
 
Q.  Is it because you didn't want it, or the publisher would not...
 
TIM HENMAN:  It's not something... 
 
Q.  It would sell a lot. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Maybe, yeah.  I got no interest in doing it.  I got no interest, no.  
 
Q.  Sorry.  English questions. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  That's okay, yeah. 
 
Q.  This I would love to know, because I was present this morning - I was present, but just by chance - to your breakfast. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Really?  That was an honor. 
 
Q.  Not that I'm trying to write a story on you, but I saw this very gentle and nice little girl, Rosie.  I saw that she has already developed a very strong personality. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, she's volleying well as well.  
 
Q.  No, no, she knows what she wants.  Most of the time...
 
TIM HENMAN:  Do you think?  I agree with you.  
 
Q.  I want to know something about her. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  She knows what she wants, yeah.  I don't know, she's maybe got, you know, Italian temperament.  If she doesn't get what she wants (banging the table).  
 
Q.  Who does she get that from?
 
TIM HENMAN:  I don't know. 
 
Q.  What I was going to say, is almost this sort of wanting to do well because you know you haven't done well here in the past? 
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's, again, we've sort of touched on this subject at the end of last year, you know.  I finished great in Paris, then had nothing to defend, if you like, until, you know, really Hamburg and the French, and there's still not a great deal there.  And I tried to say then that, you know, it is a great opportunity.  My ranking really can only go one way, but there's no good really thinking like that because then I'm suddenly, you know, putting that extra pressure on myself that's just not necessary.  Today, you know, last couple years I hadn't had a great deal of fun in Rome.  I played Coria and obviously didn't feel my best; then Gonzalez the year before, I think.  I was ill.  So, yeah, there is that aspect.  I think it's just the way that I'm dealing with it a little bit better, worrying about my own game and, you know, not thinking about the consequences.   That goes on to talking about, you know, wanting to win too badly.  I think I've been guilty of that in the past, but it's probably not the worst thing in the world to be guilty of. 
 
Q.  Was today fun?
 
TIM HENMAN:  It was.  I think you guys watching, you could see how it was a fine line.  I got off to a bad start, not quite sure how he was going to play, playing some great shots.  And it would have been easy just to sort of get frustrated and take that as, "I lost first round here the last couple years, I want to do well, and this guy's playing great and qualifier..."  It's not going to do you any good.  Again, I think it just goes back to how you deal with that, and I feel I'm dealing with it a lot better. 
 
Q.  Quick medical check.
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, yeah, no complaints.  Long may that continue. 
 
Q.  Shoulder's come through then?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  I think it was such a good sign that, you know, I played a short match against Schuettler and didn't have to play doubles that day.  It was, it was sore at the time.  But 24 hours where I didn't really do anything, really felt nearly 100 percent the next day, and absolutely fine come the final of the doubles.  You know, nothing to report.  
 
Q.  You tossed in probably a couple more double-faults than you would have liked today.  But your second serve, does that help you out of trouble on some occasions?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, in the past, I think I would have viewed this ball with a little bit of trepidation on my second serve, that, yeah, it's pretty lively and tough to control.  Whereas now, I see it as a benefit.  I feel when I'm stepping up to the second serve, I've got to pick my spot and I'm going to go for it.  I think, again, it's that attitude that is a lot better, and I have much more confidence in my second serve, which helps.  Yeah, there was definitely a couple of times, 5-all, I think 5-all, 30-all, I hit a good second serve then.  Yeah, it's that confidence.  That belief is very important not just for this tournament, but one in a couple months. 
 
Q.  On this surface, it's great.  But clearly further down the line, it's a weapon that's gonna be very...
 
TIM HENMAN:  Absolutely.  And I think, you know, the way I served 12 months ago at Wimbledon and two years ago, it was a hell of an effort to get to the quarters and the semis.   Now I feel that my serving has come on so far.  You know, it's an exciting prospect.  
 
Q.  Can you just talk about Stepanek and Goran, please. 
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think Stepanek's going to win.  I think he's another one that actually adapts his game pretty well to clay.  I don't think it's too dissimilar, actually, to my match today.  I think the faster and the heavier you hit the ball against Stepanek, the better he plays.  He feeds off it.  So I think I've got to try and be patient and still make sure that I concentrate on, you know, my serve, because he does serve well.  Take care of my own and hopefully put some pressure on his.  Maybe Goran can come with another surprise.  
 
Q.  What does it say about Goran that he's gone through what he's gone through and he still wants to play?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I think that's absolutely his decision.  You know, there are times when I'm sure it's frustrating, and you can watch him and, you know, you can see that he's struggling.   But, you know, it's a confidence thing.  He hasn't played any matches.  If he can get a string of matches, then no reason why he can't play a lot better than he probably has been.  When you played as long as he has and achieved as much as he has done, he can play as long as he wants to.  It's not for anyone else to decide for him. 
 
Q.  If, by chance, he does come through, am I right in thinking that's the first time you've played him since the last time you've played him (laughter)?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Hmm, absolutely.  Well put.  I think it will be the first time we play on clay, as well. 
 
Q.  Won't last for three days.
 
TIM HENMAN:  I think it's unlikely.  Thought it was going to rain today, actually.  Looking a bit dark at one stage.  No, it will be fun.  It will be fun.  I think he'll just have to let me win, personally (laughter).  I think it's only the right thing he could do. 
 
Q.  Have you put this to him?
 
TIM HENMAN:  No, no.  I haven't, no.  We'll wait and see. 
 
Q.  Just a general comment on your clay court game at the moment.  Do you think it's improving?
 
TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it's better, I think.  I made some changes to adapt to the conditions the last couple of years, because it was much heavier and much slower.  I had to adapt it again because the conditions are much livelier, the ball's much quicker.  I feel good about it still.  Long way to go.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT