NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 26, 2004
Tim Henman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  You must be pretty disappointed.  You had the chances, just missed them. 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, that's right.  I think we were  -- we knew it was going to be a difficult day, and you just got to be out there and compete hard and know that it's not going to be pretty at times.  You know, just towards the end of the third set, you know, I actually played some pretty good tennis in the circumstances.  I played a good game to break him.   And, you know, you look and try and analyze those points  - at 6-5 when I served for it, at 30-all with a good volley back behind him, and my position at the net, I liked my chances.  But he hit a great passing shot.  He raised his level right at the end.  And all credit to him, I thought he played some really good stuff. 

Q.  That lob. 

TIM HENMAN:  Hmm (smiling).  You didn't see the lob in the first game, did you?  Did you see the lob in the first game of the match?

Q.  No, I didn't see the first game. 

TIM HENMAN:  I knew it was going to be a long day after that.  We both played a really good  -- I think we sort of started off  with -- actually, I started off with a double-fault.  That wasn't a great start.   But breakpoint, I hit a great serve wide.  He hit a complete miss-hit lob that went over my head and landed on the line for a winner.  So that's the way it goes.  I'm certainly not going to dwell on it.  You reflect on the way I played last week, and I played some good stuff.  This week, in those conditions, you're not going to be able to play quite the same type of tennis.  But that doesn't detract from the way either of us competed.  It boiled down to a couple of points at the end, and he managed to come up with them. 

Q.  Was it flying all over the place, or is it one end?

TIM HENMAN:  No, it doesn't get any more difficult than that because there isn't any consistency to it.  It's swirly.   You know, as you have to do, you've got to try and find a way to adapt your game.  A lot of the time, I felt the most effective way, if he missed his first serve, was just to get a racquet on it and hit it down the middle and come in.  It's not easy to hit passing shots out there.  As I said, you know, it nearly paid off for me. 

Q.  Does the fact that he played such a good sustained level throughout dull the pain a little bit?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, it does.  Certainly, you guys having watch me play as much as you do, you can tell when there are sort of different types of losses.  When you lose 9-7 in the fifth to Canas in five hours, it doesn't get any more difficult to take than that in a Slam.  You know, when you play in those types of conditions, it doesn't dull my competitive instincts and how hard I try, but, you know, it's very difficult for everyone out there.  As I said, we both competed well, and all credit to him, you know.  I thought he played some really good, really good tennis.  Unfortunately, I couldn't quite come through it.  But as I said, I don't think it's a match that you really look into a great deal when you analyze the circumstances. 

Q.  What do you see as the advantages and disadvantages of going without a coach like Federer?  Have you ever done that yourself? 

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, I've had periods when I haven't had a coach traveling with me, and I don't always have a coach traveling with me at the moment.  I think it very much depends on the individual.  You know, some players like the continuity, to have someone with them all the time, and other people like to change their coaches pretty regularly.  I think it's about finding the balance, best balance for you. 

Q.  What were the advantages and disadvantages for you when you went without a coach? 

TIM HENMAN:  I think the advantages are that it puts the emphasis on the individual.  You've got to work things out for yourself and understand the way that you want to play and go out there and try and execute it without any input.  On the other side of the coin, you've got more things to organize. 

Q.  Looking ahead to Davis Cup now then, if Greg were to say to Jeremy, "I can only play the first day or the second day," would you be happy playing doubles with Jonny Marray?

TIM HENMAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  It would be a great opportunity.  I think there's still a few variables at this stage, but I think it will be a good opportunity to not necessarily experiment, but give some of the other guys an opportunity.  You know, I think those decisions will be made during the practice week.  But I think if we're all fit and healthy, I like our chances of getting back into a qualifying match in September. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT