U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 28, 2019
Steve Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you have fun?
STEVE JONES: I had fun today.  Made a few putts the last nine.  A few.  Not very many, but a few.  It's a start for me.  I had a bad start yesterday, but yeah, it was fun today.  I just started hitting it better.  Yesterday I was just hot and tired.  Too old.  I'll tell you, it really gets you, doesn't it?  You guys are here in the shade.  My wife gave me this thing.
Q. Does it help?
STEVE JONES: Yeah.  I had to ask an official.  I said, Is this legal to wear something?  He goes, Yeah.  We don't care about the neck, he said.  (Laughter.)  I said, Okay.
Q. But it was important for you to be here because you qualified.
STEVE JONES: Yeah, yeah.  I qualified, 10-year exemption ran out, so it's all right, just go qualify, and I'm playing well, just mad that I started off so bad yesterday.
But it's okay.  You know, if that's my worst round, that's okay.  Keep building on it.  That's all I'm hoping.  It's great to be here.  I played here five years ago, so I was looking forward to playing here.
Q. Did you feel like the course played differently because you were in that morning round today?
STEVE JONES: Oh, definitely, just because of the heat, I think.  I mean, it got hot here at the end.  That breeze really makes a huge difference.  So for me -- a lot of these guys, they grew up in humidity.  I grew up in dry air, so it's harder.  But I think the heat is what's hardest.
The course, really tricky little pin placements.  If you get on the wrong side, if you get on the top side or short side with those hills, you're done.  So you've really got to hit it in the right spot.
Q. So it's coincidental that your game was heating up as the temperature was heating up today?
STEVE JONES: Well, it was hotter yesterday, and I didn't do very good.  I was wiped out yesterday.
But early, you get to bed and try to get six hours' sleep and come back.  Have a good weekend, right?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT