THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 24, 2005
Steve Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Steve, make some comments for us.
STEVE JONES:  I had eight birdies, no bogeys.  That's a good thing, right?

I've always liked the golf course here.  Obviously it's a little bit wet and it's real soft out there, but you're going to get some funky lies, but you can't worry about that, you just have to go and swing the best you can and make the most of it, and that's what I tried to do today.
Q.  Did you go through a putter change?  I overheard you changed putters.
STEVE JONES:  I changed putters last week.  I used my Bull's Eye for 23 years and changed just a couple months out of that time.  I picked up this putter.  It felt good last week.  My caddie Flavio last week, he said you might want to try this putter, it's really good, and I liked it.  I stuck with it this week and I ended up making a couple bombs.
Q.  What kind and what does it do for you?
STEVE JONES:  I actually don't know the name of it.  It's a new Futura of some type, Scotty Cameron, but it's a smaller one.  I didn't even pay attention to what it was called really, but it just strokes it really well, and obviously it worked out today, and hopefully it will continue.
Q.  Phil was saying you thought you got reinvigorated at the Ryder Cup.  Has that given you any more fire or anything?
STEVE JONES:  It has.  I really enjoyed my time with Hal Sutton and the team, other than that we lost, but I wasn't really even sure that my comeback was going to happen a couple weeks ago in my mind.  It's more mental than physical right now.  I'm not really practicing more than 50 percent of what I used to.  I had a good talk with Hale Irwin a couple weeks ago in Phoenix and I thought what in the world do you think about when you win all those tournaments.  He gave me some good thoughts and good ideas.  First of all, he asked me, "Do you want to play?"  And I said, "Yeah, I do," and we went into some other stuff.

That's what I tried to focus on, the things he told me.
Q.  You're a U.S. Open champion, and there's so many great players, yet we're all writing the Fab Four, Tiger, Phil, Ernie.
STEVE JONES:  Then along came Jones (laughter).
Q.  Does that bother the guys or do they just ignore it?  Do you come in here and say, hey, look, I can play, too?
STEVE JONES:  Everybody feels like they can play or they wouldn't be out here.  The Fab Four or Five or whatever you want to say, they deserve it.  They're the five best players in the world, they deserve it.  They're playing good, and they're all playing well this year.  All the rest of us are trying to do is to beat them.
Q.  What do you feel like it'll take to be able to sustain what you've done today for the rest of the week?
STEVE JONES:  It all depends on the weather out here.  The course is really soft right now, and the ball is spinning a lot in the fairways and on the greens, and obviously if you have days like this continue, those greens can get really hard.  They're rolling really fast right now.  They've got to be rolling at least a 12 or 13, so you can imagine if it gets firm, all of a sudden the course is going to change.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT