ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 20, 2012
Steve Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You shot 6‑under for overall, fourth overall, how does that feel?  
STEVE JONES:   Yeah, it feels good.   A little bit surprising but I knew‑‑ yesterday was a tough day but knew if I came out early, got off to a good start, which I did, and probably felt as good as I've felt on a golf course this year on the front nine.   Surprised that I have moved up but happy to be there in contention.  
   
 Q.   That first nine holes, 5‑under for the day, run us through a little bit of that.   What happened?   
STEVE JONES:   A lot of good shots.   Drove in the bunker on the first and made an easy birdie there and hit it close on 2 and made a couple putts.   I was just seeing the lines on all the greens really.   I putted really well and I was hitting the ball the best I've hit it and everything sort of fell into place.   It was nice.  
   
 Q.   How is the course playing?  
STEVE JONES:   It's playing tough.   I mean, early on today, there wasn't much wind when I started so it was a little easier, but as the southwesterly picked up, the back nine was tough with the greens firming up.   You just have to try and make pars and just get what you can get out of it.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us how the 18th is playing?  
STEVE JONES:   It's tough.   That pin placement was pretty severe.   Yeah, I don't know, it's only about 6‑iron from the front and I hit probably a career‑best 6‑iron from the top of the hill and got it to about 12 feet.   
Yeah, it's just a tough hole.   You've got to hit a good drive and a good second shot.   
   
 Q.   Some of the other holes like 15 I think has been probably a good‑scoring hole during the week, that pin placement, as well, a bit more testing?   
STEVE JONES:   I knocked it on to 15 foot for two there.   It's tough just because the greens are so firm.   So you have to be aware of where you're landing the ball.   That's not really that we play tournaments very often with greens this hard.   So you have to control your spin and ball flight a lot better.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how you've been going since you turned pro?  
STEVE JONES:   Yeah, I turned pro end of 2005, and been playing the Australasian Tour ever since and I've played one Asia tour for the last three years with mixed result, some good, some bad.   That's just the way it is, though.  
   
 Q.   What's been your best result of your pro career?  
STEVE JONES:   Probably last week, I finished eighth in a OneAsia event over in China, got some good form this week.   I won a mini‑Tour event in America which is good.   It's been a bit lean this year up until the last couple of months.   Been working on some new stuff and it's been paying off.   
   
 Q.   Have you tweaked a few things?  
STEVE JONES:   Yeah, mainly just mentally really.   Working with a guy in Melbourne and just working on building up my subconscious belief systems, because sometimes the game can get you down and you can lose your confidence which happened to me, and I sort of hit rock bottom a few months ago and been building up.   Putting in some processes and seems to be working out well.  
   
 Q.   What techniques do you use to get that mental aspect?   
STEVE JONES:   Just little things like the post‑shot routine on the course, a lot of sport psyches talk about pre‑shot routine.   I was reacting negatively to a lot of shots.   The post‑shot gets overlooked, and I was sort of reacting negatively to a lot of shots and sort of getting really emotional about bad shots, and that stuff sort of sits in your subconscious.   
Just tried to calm myself and be more level on the course, and so then the next shot, if you hit that shot, the next one's good and just limit the damage.   So you do that round after round, I think I feel my confidence has been building and it's been good.   
   
 Q.   When you say rock bottom, what is rock bottom for you?   
STEVE JONES:   Might be a bit of an over‑hit that, but just felt like it emotionally and I was playing poorly.   And just when you're playing poorly and travelling and away from family, it's just hard, you're not making any money.   I just felt like emotionally and from a golf point of view, I just felt like I couldn't go further down.   But beauty of golf is, you can‑‑ you know, it's so quick to turn around.   
So you can lose it but you can find it just as fast.   I've been fortunate enough the last couple months to do the right things and found some good form.   
   
 Q.   Going into the final day, how do you feel about your position?   
STEVE JONES:   Feel good after seeing the leaderboard on the last.   Feel a lot better than I thought I would.   I don't know, feel good.   Good to be in the last couple of groups hopefully.   I'm just looking forward to challenging myself tomorrow, because I'll be out of my comfort zone and it will be something new for me.   See how I react, and it's just another round, and play a lot more good tournaments in my life.   Hopefully I finish well but see how we go.   
   
 Q.   What was the name of the sorts psychologist?  
STEVE JONES:   Jamie Glazier.   It's called Dare2Dream.   
   
 Q.   And how did you get on to him?  
STEVE JONES:   Oh, I've been friends with him‑‑ I met him about four years ago.   When I was looking for someone like that, and his name popped up when I was living in Melbourne back then.   We've been good mates ever since.   As I said recently, we just started a new sort of bit more intense program for that sort of stuff.   
   
 Q.   So you've been liasing with him?   
STEVE JONES:   Yeah, I talk to him every day when I'm way at tournaments and that sort of stuff.   Pretty important part of the game.   
   
 Q.   Where do you go tomorrow outfit‑wise?  
STEVE JONES:   I've got black pants and a pink shirt, probably my most tame outfit actually.   It my Sunday getup.   Just like Tiger Woods the red, I wear the pink.   It's good.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT