SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2012
Steve Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
STEVE JONES:   I hit it about 12 feet and made that.   
And the next hole I missed a 6‑footer.   So I missed a 7‑footer on the first hole and it's just like, wow, you know.   You just can't give up.   You just do what you can do and try to learn from it.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel going into the weekend?  
STEVE JONES:   Well I got one more day.   I feel better, just now hopefully the weather gets.   We had different weather every day.   So it's been difficult.   
But it's warming up, so it's great.   I mean, the crowds have been amazing out here, which is‑‑ I hope that the town really enjoys themselves this week.   They have done such a good job.   I mean, it's just incredible.   Everything's put together so well and all the workers and the fans and it's a big tournament.   It turned out really well.   All the players love it.   
   
 Q.   You had a pretty good round today.   Do you want to take me through that round a bit.   
STEVE JONES:   Yeah, it started off really, I mean the weather was windy and a little chilly and then it warmed up, but the first nine holes was pretty tough.   And I hit the ball as good as I hit it all week and I was only 2‑under at the turn, but I had it going really good.   Missed some putts under eight feet and other than that I played solid.   I had a couple mishaps, but saved par.   One bogey today.   
So just, the first day we had the bad tee times, we got on the bad end of the deal.   And most of the leaders, they had the opposite tee times.   So, but that's the way it goes sometimes.   You just have to fight through it and I would need a low one tomorrow to hopefully get in the top‑10.   
   
 Q.   You had three birdies in a row 3, 4, and 5.   Take me through those real quick.   
STEVE JONES:   Oh, yeah, I did, that's right.   
3, I just drove it with a 3‑wood right up next to the green and about five yards short and chipped it up there a foot.   
Then on 4 I hit a 4‑iron, a tough hole today, 4‑iron over 200 yards, and then I hit it up to 15 feet and made that.   
Then the next hole playing tough against the wind, part five, and somehow managed to birdie that.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT