VIZIO FIESTA BOWL: BOISE STATE v ARIZONA
December 28, 2014
Corey Bell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Excited about playing in the Fiesta Bowl? 
COREY BELL:   Yeah, no, it's definitely an awesome opportunity for us.   It's one of those things where you grow up, you watch those elite couple teams that have been able to play in this game the last seven years.   Now we have an opportunity to play in it as well, an opportunity to put ourselves on that level. 
It's been a lot of fun so far being down here.   Definitely enjoying the weather here.   Yeah, we're excited about it. 

Q.   (Question about Boise State teams.) 
COREY BELL:   I think they're remembered.   Leaving your mark is something you did.   Hard not to leave your mark when you were the first team in Boise State history to win the Fiesta Bowl, then do it a couple times.   Everyone remembers the 2007 and 2010 Fiesta Bowls. 
Hard to say anybody remembers the Hawaii Bowl from 2013.   I think it's more memorable when you're on a big stage like that. 
I don't know if they're more fondly remembered, but everybody remembers them. 

Q.   Growing up in Boise, did you think you would play in one of those games?
COREY BELL:   I think that's everybody's goal coming to Boise State, that you're going to get an opportunity to play in one.   It's become a major recruiting tool.   They're able to show what they've done in the past.   Hopefully we're able to continue doing it in the future.   It's what everybody's aspirations are when they come here. 
If we play well, do what we're supposed to do, we're going to have an opportunity to play in a big bowl game. 

Q.   Could you ask for anything more, to go out an elite champion?
COREY BELL:   This would be the sweetest way to finish it up.   Definitely the Mountain West championship was an awesome experience, one we haven't gotten to experience since I've been here.   That was definitely a special moment getting to win that.   Couldn't ask for a better group of coaches and teammates to do that with. 
Definitely set us up for an awesome opportunity this week to enjoy ourselves and get ready for one last hurrah for myself. 

Q.   Two Las Vegas Bowls.   Does it feel different preparing for this game?
COREY BELL:   You kind of prepare for a game regardless.   The opponent is different.   The players are different.   But you kind of go through the same process.   It's a little different just because we're preparing for different players.   But they try to keep that process the same.   So kind of similar. 

Q.   In each of the bowl games you've played in have been PAC‑12 teams.   Is there something that's different about PAC‑12 teams than, say, Mountain West teams?
COREY BELL:   Yeah, I don't know.   It is kind of funny how we've ended up playing four PAC‑12 teams in all our bowl games.   I don't know if I could necessarily say something was different. 

Q.   Do they have more speed?   Do you notice anything that stands out?
COREY BELL:   Arizona specifically, you can tell when watching film, they've done a really good job at coming together this year.   The quarterback does a great job of getting the ball to different players, also making plays with his feet. 
It's another football team.   PAC‑12 plays football just like the Mountain West plays football. 

Q.   Are they faster?
COREY BELL:   They definitely got some speed.   Some of their receivers can definitely fly, runningbacks.   Even their quarterback can get moving.   I definitely would say they've got some great speed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT