NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: RANGERS v CANADIENS
May 23, 2014
Chris Kreider
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Through two games now you guys have seen Dustin Tokarski.   What have you learned about him?   Because he was a relative unknown, obviously, coming into when he started to play in the series?
CHRIS KREIDER:   Yeah, a few tendencies, not a whole lot outside of that.   I think we're kind of more focused on our own game and trying to get pucks in that regardless of who we're playing against.

Q.   Brandon Prust is having a conference call with the league this morning.   Can you tell us what the sentiment is today in the locker room about that hit and the way it went about it and the fact that there was no penalty on the call?
CHRIS KREIDER:   Yeah, I think guys were unhappy there wasn't a penalty on the play.   Obviously, it was away from the play to begin with, so not a lot of people saw it.   But I think the sentiment today is the same as it was yesterday that it wasn't a clean hit, and hopefully the league deals with it thusly.

Q.   How much is the Canadiens victory last night changed the series? 
CHRIS KREIDER:   The end result, we didn't get the win and they got the win.   I think that's about it.   We're still focusing on the next game as we would had we come away with the victory.

Q.   I understand not being frustrated with so many opportunities last night, you score it late in the third period and tied it up and it goes into overtime?
CHRIS KREIDER:   I'm sorry? 

Q.   How do you maintain not being frustrated last night?   So many opportunities to put them away, and Tokarski came up with so many saves.   You outshot them by a wide margin?
CHRIS KREIDER:   Yeah, I think you get frustrated when you're not generating the chances.   I think we're happy with our group in regard to the time we're spending in the offensive zone and the pressure we're putting on them, and the amount of rubber we get to the net.   Obviously, we'd like to capitalize on a few more opportunities.   But I think there were some very good signs going forward.

Q.   You mentioned in regards to Tokarski a few tendencies.   What are those tendencies?   Is two games enough for you guys to feel like you know enough about him?   That you've seen it all? 
CHRIS KREIDER:   How he plays the puck is a little different from price.   I mean, for me personally kind of the things he likes to do when they're on the penalty kill, just how he finds the puck through traffic, little things.

Q.   With the way Dustin Tokarski is playing right now, do you think he will be public enemy number one in the eyes of the Montreal? 
CHRIS KREIDER:   To be honest, I haven't given it that much thought.   We're not really worried about the little stuff away from the game.   We're worried about what's happening on the ice.

Q.   You guys kind of knew about Tokarski.   What did you guys know before this series started?   Would you have been able to pick him out of the lineup?   And how much have you been told about him in terms of video and scouting report? 
CHRIS KREIDER:   He obviously played in the NHL, so there is footage.   Guys have played against him.   It's a smaller world than you think.   So you have a general idea of how guys like to play and the little things they like to do.

Q.   The Canadians had a very emotional series with Boston.   Coming into this series it seemed both coaches were pretty cautious and complementary of each other's team.   Do you think this has heated up in the last two games though, this rivalry? 
CHRIS KREIDER:   Yeah, I think it's always kind of weird the first couple of games, especially when one team or the other has gone to seven games.   It's kind of a transition when you're playing another team.   But I think we're definitely in the thick of it now.

Q.   Have you played against Tokarski in the AHL?   And what is different about the way he plays the puck as opposed to Carey Price? 
CHRIS KREIDER:   He finds himself outside of the blue paint a little more than Price.   I think he stays within the blue paint a little more.   I don't really give it that much thought personally.   It doesn't change my game.   I try to keep it pretty simple.   I try to get to the blue and stop there. 
But, I mean, I don't know.   Every single goalie is like that though.   There are little things.   In that case he likes to come outside the paint a little more than Price.

Q.   Does the fact that Tokarski and Carey Price makes your screening job easier in the crease? 
CHRIS KREIDER:   I couldn't tell you because I'm not actually facing the goalie.   I'm kind of hoping that I've got his eyes and every once in a while I get a peek.   But I don't know.   You guys would know just as well as I would.   I haven't seen the clips last night from the power play.

Q.   Do you feel you've done enough to take away his eyes to create traffic in front and wreak a little havoc in the crease? 
CHRIS KREIDER:   Yes and no.   I think we can always do a better job of getting to the net.   There were a few times yesterday we'd have liked to have a few more bodies there.   But obviously they're trying to keep us from getting there too.   So there is going to be confrontation and conflict trying to get to the paint.   Yeah, that's something we want to focus on going forward, and something we've been focusing on.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT