SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2020
Kristy Curry
Jordan Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Georgia 68, Alabama 61
THE MODERATOR: We welcome Alabama.
We will open with a statement from coach, followed by questions for our student-athlete, then we'll continue with questions for coach.
KRISTY CURRY: Congratulations to Georgia. It was another close game. They were able to make a few more baskets than we were. I thought the difference in the game was the fact that they shot 24 free throws and we shot 12. We just weren't able to adjust, try to turn the corner, get to the free-throw line, convert. We just missed some open shots.
Again, it was another well-played game. I just want to say I'm really proud of my team. To win seven out of ten, eight wins in this league, should get you in the NCAA tournament. And a one one-day game shouldn't take away from our body of work.
I'm really proud of my kids because they have fought. We played Kentucky, Texas A&M twice. The schedule hasn't been easy to us as far as the two opponents along with Auburn. I just love my kids and I'm really proud of them today.
There were a lot of tears in that locker room. I don't want it to take away just one day from what we've accomplished with our body of work, so I'm really proud of them.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Jordan Lewis.
Q. Coach mentioned tears in the locker room. Making sure you guys keep the perspective this one game does not define the season. As you look back at the positives, what stands out for you?
JORDAN LEWIS: I'm proud of this team, like Coach Curry said. I think we really fought together. I think we could have laid down when we started 2-6, easy to lay down and give up at that point. The push we made in February.
The tears are tears of hard work, how much we've put in to try to make it to this point.
Q. What changed at that point?
JORDAN LEWIS: I just think we didn't do all the little things early on. I think we let plays affect us. We let things at the end of the game bother us. I don't think we got off to good starts. I think we let people get out ahead of us, tried to fight back all game. I think that was really affecting us. So I think just getting off to better starts, just kind of finding who we are.
Q. What do you think about the strides this team can take next season?
JORDAN LEWIS: I think you just have to remember moments like this, moments when it really hurts, moments when the other team is celebrating. Think about what did you not do to be that team that's celebrating. You have to hold on to the feeling, but not be regretful or give away anything you did to get to this point.
THE MODERATOR: We'll continue with questions for coach.
Q. As your team awaits the decision as far as the NCAA tournament, what are the next few days going to look like for you and your team?
KRISTY CURRY: Like it has all year, we just get back to work and continue to learn and get better. Excited about the week next week, practice. It's a great opportunity for us. We'll see what happens.
Q. The little spurt that Georgia had at the beginning of the second half, seemed like they came out with a little bit more energy. What was your explanation for that?
KRISTY CURRY: Yeah, I just thought we missed a couple of shots. That dictated our energy on the defensive end there for a couple of possessions. When you make shots, it cures a lot. We just missed some shots. I thought that affected us too much. We didn't play the next play at the level we needed to.
Again, it's a really good Georgia team, so give Georgia credit there. It's a game of runs. We just didn't make one as long as they made.
Q. Jordan brought up the point in the season where it was lay down or get-it-done time. What did you see change in Alabama to be able to put together that second half run?
KRISTY CURRY: We lost five games, five of those in the last minute. We had continued to just teach and find the positives, know that it was a stop here or there, a boxout here or there, just the little things like Jordan was saying. Little things often make a big difference.
Our kids just continued to grow and learn from our film time and practice. Our practices have been phenomenal. Just our preparation. We stayed consistent. We stayed positive. I think that shows right there the character of kids in our locker room. Our staff has done a great job.
We were right there five of those that we lost. We felt confident even though the success on the scoreboard hadn't been there.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, coach.
KRISTY CURRY: I do want to thank the city of Greenville for the experience. It's been unbelievable how they've hosted. We just really appreciate everything they do for SEC women's basketball. So thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT