SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2019
Kristy Curry
Shaquera Wade
Cierra Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Auburn-53, Alabama-52
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Alabama.  Coach, an opening statement, please.
KRISTY CURRY: Really proud of our team.  Came up a little bit short.  I loved what this team has done this weekend.  We certainly continue to improve.
My love for Taylor Berry and Shaquera Wade, what they've given to our program and university as student-athletes, they are special.  We will continue to build off that foundation that they've laid, continue to move this forward.
We're just going to go home and get back to work.  That's all we know.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Shaquera, can you talk about what the University of Alabama means to you.
SHAQUERA WADE: It means a lot.  I'm sorry.
KRISTY CURRY: It's all right.
SHAQUERA WADE: Four years here, they've given me nothing but love.  I wouldn't replace this university with any other, you know.  We didn't win like we wanted to, but I love my teammates, I love my coaches, I love my university, and I wouldn't replace it at all.
Q. Shaquera, how important was it for you, for your last SEC tournament, to show up big in these last two games?
SHAQUERA WADE: I really wasn't worried about how many points I had.  I was just doing everything I could just to help my teammates be involved.  I know Cierra, she did everything she could to attack and stuff, get me open.  Even though I missed a few, coach was like, Attack, attack.  I did everything that I could.  I laid everything out on the floor all 40 minutes.
Q. Cierra, talk about Shaquera and Taylor, what it means moving forward now without them.
CIERRA JOHNSON: Shaq and Taylor, they played a huge role in our lives, not even just on the court, just outside.  They're perfect role models, great leaders.  Without them, it's going to be kind of hard.
But we're just going to use everything, every lesson they taught us at practice, apply it to next year.  We just got to go hard for them.  We're going to miss them.  Like Shaq, she's like a sister to me.  Taylor, they just going to be missed.  Tonight we laid everything on the line for them.  They needed that.  We came up short.  I just hope they understand we left it all out for them.  We have nothing left in the tank.  We left it all out there.
THE MODERATOR: Ladies, thank you.  We'll continue with questions for coach.
Q. Talk about how proud you are of your team.
KRISTY CURRY: I thought we continued to improve throughout the course of the year.  I thought we had a couple of games where we would go way down, then come back up.  They would always respond.  We just have to find that consistency.
A lot of that is being the 11th-youngest team in the country.  The most experienced player is Shaquera, you lose Jordan Lewis for the year, our other experienced player, who's your quarterback.  I thought our kids all year long tried to respond.  We have Shelby Gibson watching at home, we have Amber Richardson who is on that bench, learning and growing.  We have De'Sha Benjamin, who had foot surgery.  We have Megan Abrams.  So there's been a lot that's happened.
At the end of the day I know we've learned some valuable lessons that can really jump-start us here in the spring.  We're going to go back home and go back to work.
Q. Talk about Taylor Berry, how important it is for her to be on the floor even if she's not scoring points.
KRISTY CURRY: De'Sha Alexander is 0-for-9.  I don't think I need to say anything else.  That's just an incredible effort.
Q. You mentioned how young this team is.  How excited does that get you about the future?
KRISTY CURRY: We're excited.  Things didn't go the way we wanted to.  But I think all year long, it spoke highly of their character, work ethic, the kind of people they are.  They continued to just fight, go back to work every day, prepare.  We learned a lot about ourselves as people.
There's a lot that I can continue to do to improve, continue to put them in more of a position to be consistent.  It would help if we were healthy consistently.  We weren't.  How do you respond to that?  I thought we tried all year.
Appreciate our staff, our kids.  We went back to work every day.  We're about to hit the recruiting trail.  No rest for the weary.  Our team will go back for a week, we're going to go back to work a week after spring break.  We're going to go back to work.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.
KRISTY CURRY: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT