SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2018
Kristy Curry
Ashley Williams
Hannah Cook
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kentucky - 71, Alabama - 64
THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by Alabama head coach Kristy Curry and student-athletes Ashley Williams and Hannah Cook.  Coach, if you would offer your opening thoughts on today's game?
KRISTY CURRY: Credit Kentucky.  I thought Maci Morris made big shot after big shot.  We didn't have an answer defensively and you have to credit those guys.  It was going to come down to who could capitalize offensively and we had too many errors defensively and you can't win games down the stretch like that.  That has caught up with us the last couple of games.  We were a stop or two away and couldn't get it when we needed it the most.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes?
Q. Hannah, specifically what issues do you think you guys had defensively, starting so well but had issues there at the end?
HANNAH COOK: Just credit Kentucky.  They're a good team and we just needed to get a stop and that's all we needed, honestly.
Q. Ashley, 15 points, 12 boards when you look at that individually you could say you had a pretty good game.  How do you kind of process this of having such a good game individually but not being able to finish it off as a team?
ASHLEY WILLIAMS: Honestly, I feel like I could have did better.  As a team we missed shots, our free throws not weren't the best but most of it relied on against.  We didn't capitalize on that.
THE MODERATOR: All right, ladies, we will dismiss you back to the locker room.  Ladies, thank you.  Questions for Coach Curry?
Q. Coach the same question.  You guys started well defensively, gave them a lot of fits, what do you think changed in the second half?
KRISTY CURRY: You know, obviously that's 23 at the half and they get about 48 in the third and the fourth.  I thought we got that 8 or 10-point cushion and took too big of a sigh there in the third.  I'm really disappointed in our tenacity defensively and especially with the scout.  I thought our communication was poor at free throws and huddles and what page we were supposed to be on.
But, again, Maci Morris is pretty special.  I think there was one shot that I can recall she missed and we had her go left, finally!  It was a pull-up and she missed it.  Again, I thought that we just for whatever reason allowed her to get too many open looks.  She hit 'em and that's what great players do.  She was just amazing today in the fourth quarter.
Q. Coach Mitchell said your zone gave them trouble early on.  Was the game plan the same defensively as it was in your first meeting when she shot it well?
KRISTY CURRY: No, we did make adjustments which I really thought helped.  When we went zone in the second half we gave up two three's to Morris, backside and we were trying to change and be disruptive and keep them off balance.  But, again, I -- we were in a little bit of our 12, we were in our man, we were in our zone and she just was unconscious and we did not do a good job.  I thought they got it inside a couple times on us and got to the free throw line.  They're 13 of 20 from the line and we're 11 of 20, and our bread and butter has been to convert at the free throw line all year and the past two games we have missed way too many that have hurt at critical moments.
Q. How do you summarize your last few weeks of your season?  The huge win to Tennessee and the loss to other teams, how do you process that in?
KRISTY CURRY: I think you continue to stay positive, you roll up your sleeves and continue to go to work every day.  You look at the past history of this league, 7 and 9, 6 and 10 have gotten in, Auburn lost 2 of 9 down the stretch a year ago and lost on this day as well and got in. So we'll see what that is for us, whichever path it is we know we are representing the SEC in the postseason and we are going to continue to work and grow and move forward.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT