SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2019
Kristy Curry
Shaquera Wade
Cierra Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Alabama-74, Vanderbilt-57   
THE MODERATOR: We are joined by Alabama.   
An opening statement, please.   
KRISTY CURRY: Just really proud of our team today.  We feel like it's a brand-new season, brand-new opportunity.  This tournament is an opportunity for our team to come out and have another opportunity with the post-season.  I'm just really proud of the response.  We wanted to come out and be the more aggressive team.  I think that showed.  We were really aggressive, had great balance with four in double figures, dominated the glass.   
It's important when you can rebound and defend.  Thought our kids really played to tendencies today, made a big difference.  I'm really proud of our effort.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Shaquera, this is going to be your final SEC tournament, regardless of the outcome.  Talk about what this one means to you.  
SHAQUERA WADE: Well, it's exciting.  No matter what the outcome is, I'm grateful to play with the teammates that I have and to be coached with the coaches that I have.   
No matter what the outcome is, I'm just very, very excited.   
 Q.  Cierra, it seems every time you have the ball, you're very aggressive.  How much does this team need you to be aggressive on a game-to-game basis?  
CIERRA JOHNSON: I think it's very important that I set the tone and be more aggressive.  It's like the more I'm aggressive, I get my teammates open to when I'm going hard, they collapse on me, I find my shooter.  It's very important that I'm aggressive.   
 Q.  Cierra, Shaquera and Taylor playing in some of their final games.  What does it mean for the rest of the team?  How are you playing for these two?  
CIERRA JOHNSON: When you have good teammates like Shaq and Taylor, just going hard at practice every day, just being around them, you just want to play harder for them.  You want to end them on a good note.  You want to go as far as you can.   
I know Shaq said no matter the outcome, she'll be happy.  For us, it means more because it is their last tournament.  We want to just take them as far as we can.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll take some questions for head coach.   
 Q.  How do you now turn the page and get prepared for Auburn?  
KRISTY CURRY: It's like I told them, enjoy this.  We're going to get some ice cream, then we'll head back to the hotel.  When we walk in that hotel, our preparation starts with how we handle our meal, our rest, preparation.   
We're prepared as staff.  I think our kids understand what you have to do to have a different outcome.  We've had an opportunity to play them twice.  That's an advantage.  We know some areas that we need to correct.   
 Q.  What do you tell your team before the game with it possibly being their last game of the season?  
KRISTY CURRY: We want to talk about what we can control tomorrow.  That's our energy and effort.  We come out with the right energy and effort, we don't have to talk about what might happen that's negative.  We want to stay positive.  That's what we've done throughout what we've weathered this season:  Focus on the next play, the next moment.  That's within our control.  Not to think ahead, look back, but focus on the moment.   
If we can do that, I think the outcome will take care of itself.   
 Q.  Can you talk about how proud you are of your group for coming out the way they did today.  
KRISTY CURRY: I'm telling you, we get word yesterday that Meg is out with a concussion.  That's stunning.  We just lost De'Sha Benjamin to a broken foot.  That shocked us a little bit.  We've had a lot of things happen.   
If you look at Taylor today, five rebounds, four steals, no turnovers, assists, 37 minutes, drew the toughest defensive assignment all day and held Walker to 11.  That's what it's about.   
Again, it's just great to see those kind of moments.  When somebody else goes down, it's somebody else's turn to step up.  Couldn't be any happier for her.  Everything we've asked, she's always done.  She knew how important today was, how important tomorrow is.  We're going to need great bench play.  We're obviously very limited.   
Was really proud to see her team rally around her.  I thought Cierra set the tone, but everybody rallied, because of Taylor's energy, vocalness in the locker room the past couple days.  Focused on what we can control, that's our energy and effort, who is on the floor.   
 Q.  What is the energy like at an event like this, post-season?  
KRISTY CURRY: It's a fun time of year.  As a competitor, you look forward to these moments, you look forward to having the opportunity for a brand-new season.  I think our kids understand the opportunity in front of them.  We're going to try to make the most of it.   
 Q.  Has the ice cream been all season long or is this special?  
KRISTY CURRY: It's perfect timing in the afternoon before dinner.  We usually do that after a win.  I think there's a good spot close to us.  We're prepared (smiling).   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you very much for joining us, coach.  We'll see you tomorrow.   
KRISTY CURRY: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT