SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 1, 2017
Kristy Curry
Shaquera Wade
Jordan Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome members of the Alabama basketball team.
Coach Curry, start out with an opening statement.
COACH CURRY: Just really proud of our team today. The consistent energy and effort for 40 minutes is something that we've been looking to do. We've had
moments where we've been in nearly every basketball game and have been so close. It was a little thing here or there. I thought today the little things we really took care of, or big things, and impacted the game. It was a great effort from our entire team.
Great balance today. I thought our point guard really controlled the game. To have six assists and no turnovers in 13 minutes, there's been no freshman in
the country that has been more valuable to their team than Jordan Lewis. I thought that Shaquera really grew up an awful lot today and has been working hard. It is just great balance. Having four seniors is what it takes to be successful. The exciting things is they're all coming back. We're excited for the future and look forward to the challenge tomorrow.
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up to questions for the student-athletes.
Q. Jordan, it seemed like the three-point basketball was y'all's friend early in this game. What did you see there that was making that work for your offense?
JORDAN LEWIS: Well, a lot of people only see Hannah as a three-point shooter on our team, so a lot of people guard out heavy on her. To get her open more times, we have to learn to knock down shots, make others available when you're open, make the open shot.
Q. Shaquera, looking at the offensive rebounding stats, what was the key?
SHAQUERA WADE: Just be aggressive, be aggressive and to rebound. I know they did a very good job on the rebounding end. You know, we didn't give up. We did our best to push them out and go for the boards, just stop 'em as much as we could.
THE MODERATOR: Student-athletes, you are dismissed.  Thank you.
We'll continue with questions for Coach Curry.
Q. It seemed early on you were hitting a lot of threes.  That was a big part of the offense.  Did you see anything there that was keeping that a big part of the attack?
COACH CURRY: We want our team to be shot-ready on the catch and ball reversal.  For everyone, I think we're at our best when we have great balance.  We want to encourage all of our kids that shoot the three to have that confidence.
I think at Vanderbilt, we made 11 threes.  I think they made 11 threes.  We can shoot the three ball.  When we're open, it's on ball reversal, that's about being aggressive.  We have to take the open look and make others realize we can shoot the ball.
Q. It seems like you forced a lot of turnovers, turned those into points.  I'm sure that's a thing you focus on in practice, turning that into production.  Why was that important?
COACH CURRY: I think it's important to maximize the possession and take high-percentage shots.  I thought our shot selection today was as good as it's been all day.  When we have an open window or an easy look, we need to convert those.
We've been in a position all year where when we convert turnovers to point, we can convert those into points, it makes our team an awful lot better.
Q. Everybody wants to win the first game in a tournament to keep going.  To win in this fashion, offensively playing well, why is that important for you going forward?
COACH CURRY: Again, it shows that we're making progress forward.  So many of us in that locker room have been in this position and had success, but not one of those players have.  To learn success, you have to have success.
I think today was really important.  It shows that our kids are doing things that are necessary to continue to grow and improve.  It's a brand-new season.  We talk about bounce back, the past 72 hours.  It's always about your response.  I thought our kids responded.
We were disappointed.  We felt like we had a chance.  To only have five wins...  How are we going to respond to that?  What have we learned?  That's about life every day, how do you respond when things don't go your way.
I like our response today.
Q. Talk about your matchup for tomorrow.
COACH CURRY: We're going to try to enjoy this one for a little while.  Obviously, I think we understand what we need to do to be successful.  But certainly we'll get together here in a little bit as a staff.  We're already prepared.  We're going to let our kids enjoy this.  There's so many things to learn.  We're going to try to enjoy the day.  Tonight we'll turn the page and get prepared.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.
COACH CURRY: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT