NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2012
Quincy Miller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   If you'll start with your feelings about being drafted by Denver. 
QUINCY MILLER:   It's definitely a great feeling.   I love the City of Denver and I love what they have got going on with their organization and I'm excited to be there with the type of players that they have. 

Q.   With the success of Baylor, and now here you are as a basketball team who changed the culture of the school in terms of that tragic situation of controversy, and you were part of that to bring it back to the map, explain to me what you went through and the decision to go there, and how you moved forward in bringing that glory back to Baylor. 
QUINCY MILLER:   Baylor, at first it was a religious school, you know, God always first.   Then I met Coach Drew and Coach Drew is always a very genuine guy and always tells me the truth.   Then I met my teammates after that I and knew I would be able to click with them guys from day one and that's main reason I chose Baylor.

Q.   Talk about the depth of the Denver Nuggets team and the potential that they have, and also, being able to work under Coach Karl. 
QUINCY MILLER:   Coach Karl is a great coach, man, aggressive.   I like his style.   I like the way they play; they play quick, fast, they get shots up and they get to the free throw line and they shoot a lot of 3s.   I don't know that many people who have a memory in this game, but they shoot a lot of 3s. 

Q.   Talk about working under (Aaron) Afflalo? 
QUINCY MILLER:   Yeah, there are not that many words you can say about him.   He's great. 

Q.   Tell me about the experience.   You didn't get the invite to the Green Room, but there's still an experience still coming.   What was your thought process of saying, hey, I want to be there, even if I'm in the second round and these are some of the things that I know that I can experience? 
QUINCY MILLER:   Just being able to walk on the stage and receive your hat in front of all of these people on national TV and show your love for the organization, I think that's great.   This is an experience you're only going to have once.   You're going to be able to show your kids pictures of this.   It is a great experience. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT