NL DIVISION SERIES: GIANTS VS CUBS
October 11, 2016
Johnny Cueto
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: First question, please.   
 Q.  You were on the Cincinnati team that saw what the Giants do in elimination games.  Now you're seeing it from the other side, being on this team.  What's your opinion about the way this team responds and why they respond the way they do in elimination games?  
JOHNNY CUETO: Well, the only thing I can say is that this is a funny world, it's like roller coaster.  You go up and down; you never know where you're going to end.   
I'm here.  I'm experimenting something different.  And I can say today's a very important game for us, and we just have to go and take it one game at a time.   
 Q.  Just with the Giants being down 2-0 yesterday, what was it like watching that five-hour game yesterday?  
JOHNNY CUETO: No, nothing, I was just watching the game and hoping that we would come back.  We did.  And we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  With your temperament, you give off the vibe that nothing bothers you.  In big games, like the one you'll pitch if this happens, do you feel pressure or do you feel any different, or how do you feel?  
JOHNNY CUETO: No, I guess not pressure at all.  The only thing that I would do is concentrate a little bit more on batters, make sure that I execute my pitches.   
 Q.  You obviously seem to like pitching in Wrigley Field.  You obviously pitched there many times.  Do you have to take any special precautions as a pitcher, pitching in that particular park?  
JOHNNY CUETO: Well, nothing, nothing special.  I mean, that's the division that I played in when I was with Cincinnati.  I faced them a lot.  I like playing there, and the only thing I need to do is just go out there and fight through it.   
 Q.  How confident are you that you're going to make your next start in Game 5?  
JOHNNY CUETO: Nothing, I'm just hoping to God that we can win today, continue the streak, and go from there.   
 Q.  Would you tell us about Buster Posey a little bit.  What makes him -- if he is a special catcher, what makes him special, what's good about pitching to Buster?  
JOHNNY CUETO: Right now we're in sync.  He trusts the way that I pitch.  We have a very good connection when I'm out there pitching.   
THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT