NL DIVISION SERIES: GIANTS v REDS
October 5, 2012
Johnny Cueto
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Johnny?   
   
 Q.   Johnny, first of all, what is it like to have Dusty back?   It seems like he hasn't missed a beat at all, and certainly you guys did a lot of things when he wasn't there, but he's ready to do some more now.   
JOHNNY CUETO:   Well, first of all, I think that everything that happened came back okay and I'm really happy that he's back here with us.   You're right.   
   
 Q.   Johnny, can you talk about starting game 1, what that means to you and getting the Reds off to a good start?   
JOHNNY CUETO:   Well, first, I don't have to change nothing, I started opening day and I was the first guy for the staff.   
All I need to do is a little more concentration.   It's a best of 5, so just concentrate a little more.   But I don't have to change anything.   
   
 Q.   Johnny, you have an impressive E.R.A. and two career starts at AT&T Park.   Is this a place you enjoy pitching?   
JOHNNY CUETO:   Well, yeah, this is a big ballpark.   This is a pitching ballpark, so yeah, I like to pitch here.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about 2010, obviously you have playoff experience.   What that means, if anything, to this start for you?   
JOHNNY CUETO:   I feel really well and I don't feel anything.   I feel relaxed.   I feel like tomorrow I'm going to go there and play.   I don't feel nothing different.   
   
 Q.   Did you learn anything specifically from pitching in the playoffs before?   
JOHNNY CUETO:   It's a normal situation.   I learned the same.   You don't change.   You don't change anything, it's the same baseball.   You don't change anything.   
   
 Q.   Johnny, last time the Reds were in the playoffs it was a short stay.   What's it mean for you guys to try and extend that stay, win the series and continue on in the playoffs?   
JOHNNY CUETO:   Well, I see the team with more enthusiasm, more relaxed, I see the team better.   It was different between this time and the last, because the last time it was kind of like a no‑knowing situation.   I don't want to use this word, but it was kind of like‑‑ it was a scary situation.   Now it's not a scary situation.   The team is relaxed and the team is prepared.   
   
 Q.   Johnny you pitched a 3‑hit shutout last year against the Giants last year, but that lineup didn't have Buster Posey or Hunter Pence in it.   What is your opinion of the Giants current lineup?   
JOHNNY CUETO:   I don't think anything.   All I have to do is do my job.   I don't see the lineup, I don't know who is going to be in the lineup tomorrow, I have to do my job and they have to do their job.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Johnny.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT