WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 2, 2019
Paul Waring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 66. Tell us about an exceptional afternoon.
PAUL WARING: Yeah, sort of followed a little bit from yesterday, really. There was a lot of good, good golf in there. Gave myself a lot of chances, which was great. I was a little bit disappointed with the finish, but I'd rather do that today than tomorrow, so we'll see if we can make amends tomorrow and go from there.
Q. When you're on the range, do you get the feel that it's going to be quite a good day?
PAUL WARING: I've been feeling good with the wedges, and you have good chances if you hit in the fairway. I'm really dialed in, so giving myself chances a lot. Nearly holed a shot on the first. Yeah, I felt good with the wedges straightaway and built from there.
Q. You must be so pleased, all the work you've done to achieve this.
PAUL WARING: Very much so. It's nice competing on this stage, not just turning up and not being a part of the tournament, you know what I mean. It's nice to see my name up on the leaderboard. I know I'm only a couple back or whatever it is, with a genuine chance, come out and play well tomorrow, shoot a good score, I give myself a genuine chance of winning.
It's great to be able to perform like that on this stage. There's a lot of things that can happen tomorrow. It's golf and I'm playing against some of the world's best. Loads and loads of things can happen.
In the round, got a little cold gave myself a little bit of chances, and then holed a flop shot, chip on 13, which gave me that little bit of momentum. Hit a great shot on 14, which I missed and then holed nice putts 15, 16, 17, which really got me up that leaderboard.
Q. You could be in the final group tomorrow. Tell us about the expectations and excitement of that Sunday you could have.
PAUL WARING: To be honest, there's very little expectation. Like we say, I'm going up against the world's best. Just being here and competing and being part of it -- everything that happens tomorrow, it's meant to happen for a reason half the time. If it's my time, it's my time. If not, it's not. It's one of those things, I have a few weeks to finish off this season, so I'm looking forward to, at least I know I'll learn tomorrow. I know I'll learn from the situation and learn a lot about myself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT