THE IRISH OPEN
June 30, 2012
Paul Waring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  PAUL WARING:   Got off to a poor start, well, a hanging on start with the wind and rain; it was absolutely driving out there.   
Took some nice chances on 9 and 10 to get myself involved.   Had a lovely pitch into 12 as well, just missed the putt.   Just missed the putt on 13. 
Great up‑and‑down on 14.   Holed a real big putt on 15, big swinging one.   As much as I don't want to admit, there was a little fist pump in there, that's not one of those things that I really like to admit to.   Just shows how much passion is in it. 

Q.   And I think you deserved the fist‑pump at that stage, and the way you've battled with things today. 
PAUL WARING:   It has been a bit of a battle.   17 was a bit of a mess, disappointing to bogey a par 5.   Okay, it's a tough par 5 and it's playing nearly 600 yards, but still a bogey and a par 5, and once I dropped a shot, means a shoot over par for the day when I felt I could have done better really. 

Q.   I thought you had gone for a burger, right by the vans and catering?
PAUL WARING:   I was thinking about it.   Nice to get it back in play, walk off with six, that was disastrous and could have gone anywhere.   So to walk off with 6 isn't the end of the world. 

Q.   You're in a lovely position on the board, it's a wide open tournament?
PAUL WARING:   With these conditions, anything can happen.   There are some really penal places you can hit it and some thick rough, chances of losing golf balls and that sort of stuff.   If you can keep control of it and putt well, you'll do all right.

Q.   With a victory chance into the final day, is there an element of surprise, first tournament back?
PAUL WARING:   Oh, yeah, I'm rubbish.   (Laughing).   No, I feel quite happy.   I've been playing okay.   So as long as I can keep control of it, I'm all right.   It's golf, isn't it.   So I'm not coming in here and all of a sudden playing tennis.   It's something I've always done and know how to do it.   And this is where I want to be. 
Yeah, it is a bit of a surprise coming out, but a lot of expectations and all that sort of stuff, so we'll just see what happens tomorrow.

Q.   Sometimes there is the argument for just being match sharp and just building up to things?
PAUL WARING:   Yeah, there's an argument for being really, really relaxed and not really caring and just trying to take it as it comes and enjoy yourself out there, which we are doing.   Jamie, again, is just making me laugh as much as he can and I think that's exactly what I need to be honest with you.   Again, he's gone a bit quiet towards the end but he did all right today as well.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT