THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 6, 2009
Paul Waring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PAUL WARING: It was all right. It was a bit scrappy at times really. Chipped and putted nicely. Obviously disappointed with the 3-putts on 17.  
 Holed some nice ones, kept the momentum going. I felt like my caddie did a good job, as well, and that made it very easy.  
  
  Q. Tough conditions, and scrappy is probably good, isn't it?  
 PAUL WARING: Yeah, scrappy is good. If you can scrap it around and sort of keep it close to par, it gives you half a chance. I know a lot of guys are going to struggle, and it's so easy to see why the scoring is so bad. It is really tough out there.  
  
  Q. Going into this, I thought half a chance, Paul Waring, you played here last year and played very well didn't you?   
 PAUL WARING: Yeah, I got in late last year, I was one of the reserves, got in quite late. Showed up on Thursday and put myself right in the mix. Sadly didn't quite deliver the weekend, but just one of those things, isn't it, and keep learning from it.  
  
  Q. How does this compare to last year? Essentially this course changes from day-to-day, we had the beautiful sunshine to start, and chalk and cheese to what that's like.   
 PAUL WARING: Yeah, it's changed a lot. And I don't think the forecast is too great tomorrow. The thing is we are sort of expecting it, so as long as we sort of know what's coming, we can sort of at least prepare for it.   
 Obviously I think more heavy rain is due tomorrow, so got to see what happens.   
  
  Q. It was ridiculous at times, wasn't it, because standing here, this is probably better than it's been for some of the time out there.   
 PAUL WARING: To be honest we actually got away with the rain. It's just been very windy and cold. My hands started to get cold toward the wind. Actually lost a little bit of feel. But it's not easy out there, and as you can see from the scoring, there's not many red numbers today.  
  
  Q. When you get it into that rough, you're bludgeoning it, aren't you?  
 PAUL WARING: Yeah, you just have to hit it as hard as you can, put it back in play and give yourself a shot at the greens. The stuff around the greens isn't too bad. Obviously it's quite thick in places. But you know, there's a few tricky flags out there, which did not make it too easy but they moved a few tees forward so that helped a bit.   
 Obviously beginning of this year has been a bit funny, felt like I played all right at times, just keep missing cuts by one, which is frustrating. Obviously I've put myself in position before, finished Top-10 in Joburg last year and finished second in Madrid. Gave myself a chance in Madrid, as well, but just didn't take it over the weekend.   
 So just keep learning from my mistakes I made over the past and see how tomorrow goes.  
  
  Q. Given what you said about the weather we are likely to face, is it a matter of holding it together?  
 PAUL WARING: Yeah, you just have to drop as little shots as you can, really, and if you can pick up a birdie or two, you can and just hole your short game is good. If you're rolling putts nicely, the greens are rolling nicely, so you have half a chance, anyway.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT