HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2017
Paul Waring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Seemed a bit more of a struggle out there today.  Give us your thoughts on a 72?
PAUL WARING: Obviously I would have taken the score through 36 holes.  Obviously I really got it going yesterday.  I gave myself a couple of chances out there.  Just didn't hole enough of the shorter putts.
There are some really tough flags out there at times.  17 and 4 were playing really tough into the teeth of the wind.  We had a little bit of rain there, as well.  It was a bit of a different golf course today.  It was a little harder, a little bit -- it demanded a bit more from you, really.
Q. Playing with a new set of irons in the bag, worked well for you yesterday.  That seems to be going okay?
PAUL WARING: The new Wilson V6s which I've been trying to test a little bit and got them to exactly where I want them now.  Just let me go at a few more flags.  Feel I can control the ball a bit more, which is ideal in this little bit of wind we've got.
Q. Weather conditions are quite changeable out there today.  Did that have much of an impact on things?
PAUL WARING: Obviously you're in full waterproofs and you've got a sleeveless on and you've got a t-shirt on and you've got full waterproofs on again.  Your body's changing all the time, different temperatures.  You've got different stuff on your arms, not on your arms and you're swinging at different speeds because you've got different layers on.  It was hard to manage at times but got around the day okay.  A bit disappointing but just one of those, really.
Q. Any change in strategy going into the weekend knowing you're still at the right end of the leaderboard?
PAUL WARING: There's no change in strategy.  You've got to plan what you want to do around here.  You have to pick and choose the shots to take on, the shots to hit into the fat of the green at times.
Off the tee is key.  I think if you get it off the tee, you can really start attacking some of the greens.  There's a lot stuff inside 150 yards which you can start getting inside 15 feet and holing a few putts.  That's sort of key, really, I'm finding.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT