HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 29, 2017
Paul Waring
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You is remarked in Joburg the game was in good shape but today it's all come together and you've shot 7-under par around here.  How do you feel?
PAUL WARING: Obviously made up.  Quite funny, just saying to my caddie -- funny you should say the game all came together.  I only hit five fairways which is obscene around here.  But I think I had nine putts on the back nine.  Obviously rolled the putter great and gave myself some real chances out there and took them.
Q. You said that no dropped shots on the card, as well, and saying what you just said, it's quite a feat, as well?
PAUL WARING: Obviously I felt like the short game is really, really tidy today.  It just gave me opportunities to get it in and around the green.  Any chance that I felt like I had, I rolled that in, and then obviously holed a few putts for par, which is nice to keep the momentum going.
Q. Your previous performance around here, you shot 66, which you've gone better today.  But of course there have been a lot of changes since then.
PAUL WARING: Yeah, I think the changes are fantastic in all honesty.  I didn't play last year because of injury, but seeing some of the changes made between 4 and 5, they have really /KPRAEUTed the two holes really well.  It's been a couple of little bits and bobs away.  It's amazing they got it right the first time.  Really, really impressed with it.
Q. Second event in the Rolex Series.  How important for you in terms of points and things would it be to have a good result this week?
PAUL WARING: Of course, you're always trying to push yourself forward.  You're always trying to sort of move up any sort of rankings, be that Race to Dubai, be that World Rankings.  Got a good, strong field again this year, so there's plenty of World Ranking points available.  So just got to keep pushing myself forward.
If we drive it better, we can go really silly but really happy with how it's gone.  If we can just score similar to that, I'll be more than happy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT