TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 23, 2001
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  Is it injuries?  What's happened?

MARCELO RIOS: Just someone playing good.  I'm just starting moving.  I'm having big problem moving around and hitting the ball as I used to hit it.  I've been working out really hard, but it's tough to improve. 


Q.  Is it something you've lost, do you think? Confidence?

MARCELO RIOS: Well, I haven't been playing good since I have the surgery.  I think I play good match, but I've been struggling a lot with the movement.  That's the main part.  And then hitting it late.  I'm not on top of the ball.  My game is all about moving and hitting the ball whenever I can, and obviously I think if you're not moving good, you try to go for winners.  If you're not feeling the ball, you miss a lot. 


Q.  Were you moving well in practice?

MARCELO RIOS: I think some days I can feel good.  Some days I don't feel good.  I don't have any pain in my groins, but still I'm sore.  Some days I'm sore, some days not.  Some days I feel really good.  Some days I don't.  It's not working good.


Q.  You've been at the top of the game.  You see how hard you have to work.  What do you think about a guy like Agassi who's playing so well at this point in his career?  What does that tell you about him?

MARCELO RIOS: He have two years, he dropped 140, couldn't win a match.  Same thing is happening to me and I'm losing to anybody.  I'm losing matches that before maybe I didn't lose.  But I think  -- I know I'm doing the things good.  I'm practicing really hard and I'm not improving.  That's the main part, is I practice five hours a day, three hours a day, and next day I can't move. So it's really hard, and I'm figuring out what I can do. 


Q.  So you're giving it the same effort that you were giving it when you were  --?

MARCELO RIOS: For sure.  I think I'm giving more.  I'm trying to practice more.  I'm trying to do more physically in tennis and working really hard.  But I'm not improving.


Q.  Does that make you respect a guy like an Agassi more because of what he can do when he's that age?

MARCELO RIOS: I don't use Agassi as an example.  I think anybody that was up and then go down and come up, for sure he's doing good work.  But I think it's tough after an injury.  I think it's after you have surgery, and I didn't  -- that's why people say don't have surgery, just try to tough it out like that.  It's really hard.  It's really hard after a surgery. 


Q.  There are examples on and on of people going through difficulties, surgeries, then taking the time to get back to where they were.  Do you have any doubt you'll get back?

MARCELO RIOS: That's what I'm trying to do.  If I didn't have any confidence in myself, I wouldn't be playing.


Q.  So your answer is...?

MARCELO RIOS: I think if you were a top player for four years, five years and now you're 23rd, losing first round, I think is not really good.  You don't feel any  -- you're not happy what's going on.  I think once everybody say you're 20, you're really good.  But if you were in the top of the game, I think being 20 is not good. 


Q.  So you say that after three days you're sore.  Do you think you'll be able to overcome that pain and  --?

MARCELO RIOS: It's not pain.  It's  -- I don't know if it's the worst pain.  For sure I don't have pain like before the surgery.  It's not the same pain.  But it's tough to recover.  I can't recover from one day to another, and obviously I lose a lot of confidence.  When I came back, I can  -- really, one year, it's a lot of time.  I can't get back to my game after what happened. 


Q.  It's transition. 

MARCELO RIOS: I hope.  I hope so. 


Q.  Can you talk about Andy's game a little bit, what kind of potential you see in him. 

MARCELO RIOS: First time I see him play.  He have big serve, and that's it.  I don't think he have a  -- he just hit the ball as hard as he can.  If it go in, go in.  But nothing special. 


Q.  So you think you lost the match instead of him winning?

MARCELO RIOS: I'm not saying that.  You win the matches because you won it.  Obviously I'm not in my 100 percent.  I think he's not a bad player but nothing special. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT