TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2000
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What lesson have you learned the most from your time off the Tour and dealing with
your injuries?

MARCELO RIOS: Well, I think you got to take care of your body more; not playing every
week and just go and fly and travel every week for a tournament, try to rest a little bit
and since I start playing tennis I have four months off, so it was pretty nice and I enjoy
a little bit life that I have not been enjoying. I think you miss a little bit, the
tennis, but I think it was a good break.

Q. What are your thoughts on good fortunes of South American tennis in recent times,
are you pleased with that and what do you think the future has?

MARCELO RIOS: Well, since I start playing, a lot of South Americans doing good. I think
it is really nice, really nice to go to tournaments and see a lot of South Americans in
the draw and more Chileans now going out. I think that is pretty nice, like I say, to go
to tournaments and have Chilean people around and trying to help as much as you can so
Chile can grow more in tennis.

Q. If there is one thing in tennis, one wish that you could have in tennis to change a
rule or to get a new stroke yourself, or change the schedule, anything, if you had one
wish, in tennis, what would you wish for?

MARCELO RIOS: They should change the way the linemen calling the court. They should
have like some camera there to see when the ball hit the line or not because I think they
make a lot of mistakes.

Q. Do you think for the fans, part of the fun of it is to sort of yell and scream and
say, hey, that ball was out, you are a jerk for calling it in, do you think that is part
of the joy of coming to a tennis match?

MARCELO RIOS: Maybe for them; not for us. I think some important points that they call
your ball out when it is good and that piss you off a little. But that is the part of the
game. That is why I think they should have cameras and try to do it more fair.

Q. What do you like best about the United States?

MARCELO RIOS: I like the golf courses are really nice playing here and I love to stay
here every time I kind of come to Tampa where I got a place and I think it is pretty fun,
pretty calm.

Q. What do you like the least?

MARCELO RIOS: Here?

Q. In America.

MARCELO RIOS: I am not going to tell you.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT