US OPEN
September 6, 1999
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







USTA: Questions in English first, please.

Q. Marcelo, you made a great start, great game in the first. Afterwards, you seemed to
have played much better.

MARCELO RIOS: I look pretty good on -- I got a little bit tired. I was really hold the
first set. Like at the beginning of the second, I think he played pretty good. Was really
hard, the first set. But I think he played pretty good. 

Q. Marcelo, your results coming into this tournament hadn't been too stunning. Had you
been prepared for a result much like this? 

MARCELO RIOS: Well, if you have realize, I have been injured, if you knew from before.
Maybe that's why I'm not prepared. 

Q. Were you impressed by the way he held onto the match at the end? It was also tiring?


MARCELO RIOS: He was going for his shot. I don't think he have a plan of a game like he
go there and he know what he's doing. I think he just go on and pick winners, pick serves.
I think they go in. He play good. If they don't go in, I think he have a nice try to play
better. 

Q. Why do you change shoes so much? 

MARCELO RIOS: They broke a little, a little in the bottom, and I had a little bit
trouble. But that's the only reason I change. 

Q. Did you change four times? 

MARCELO RIOS: I don't know. I didn't count. 

Q. Do you see Escude as being a player that's on a hot streak right now? Do you think
he has a shot against Andre Agassi? 

MARCELO RIOS: I don't think so. I think Andre won't have any trouble to beat him. 

Q. Today, was this a case of he was just on top of his game or you were just
ill-prepared? Was it the injury that plagued you? 

MARCELO RIOS: Like I said, I got tired. He played much better in important moments. But
just one match.

Q. Is your injury still bothering you or is it just the lack of having played and being
able to prepare? 

MARCELO RIOS: No, my injury is much better each day. It's going better. It's a little
bit weak there, start cramping. But hopefully is going to be better next week. 

Q. Do you enjoy being a touring pro? Do you like your life in tennis? 

MARCELO RIOS: If I didn't like it, I would not be here. 

Q. What do you like about it? 

MARCELO RIOS: I think I like to win. I like to play tournaments and do good. 

Q. What's your favorite tournament to play? Your favorite site? 

MARCELO RIOS: Playing back home in Chile. 

Q. What is your biggest ambition now, to get back to No. 1? To win a Grand Slam? 

MARCELO RIOS: To try to get in Top 10 at end of year. I keep going there, and more than
the rankings and all that is try to play good tennis again, try to feel good on the court
and do what I know how to do. 

Q. What do you think you have to do to win a Grand Slam with your game? 

MARCELO RIOS: We play close, during quarters, there's one final. But like I said, I
would be happy -- not having luck with the injuries, come in with injuries on the week of
the Grand Slam and made me be not prepared that good. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT