US OPEN
September 4, 1999
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
USTA:  Questions for Marcelo.  
 
 
Q.  How pleased with your game are you tonight?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Each match I'm playing much better.  I start playing pretty good from the beginning.  Like first matches, maybe I was not playing that good, missing a lot in the first set.  I think today I have a quick start.  Playing much better.  
 
Q.  Did you expect such a win tonight?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I didn't know this guy.  I just saw him playing once.  I knew he have a big serve, he goes for his shots.  I never saw him play.  I didn't have no idea what was going to happen.  It was a quick match.  I think I played pretty good. 
 
Q.  Compare when you get to the tournament, how confident are you now after three rounds?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  When I arrive to the tournament, I was with little confidence; didn't play that much.  I came here without playing many tournaments, like not feeling good, not going into the first match knowing what's going to happen or hitting the ball clean.  Now I'm feeling much better. 
 
Q.  Do you start to feel yourself as one of the guys who can win it now?  Is it too early?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think a lot of guys have chances.  Everybody that is in the fourth round are playing good.  I think everybody have a chance.  Everybody's playing good. 
 
Q.  Including yourself?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Like I say, I'm playing each match much, much better.  I'm feeling good.  
 
Q.  What about your next opponent?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I beat him twice.  We play two times.  Like I say, if he's there because he's playing good, he beat some good players.  It's just going to be another match, a tough match. 
 
Q.  Are you surprised to see him in the fourth round of the US Open, two years after the semis in Australia? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think he's been doing very good.  You never know.  It's a long five sets.  Everything is different.  Just got to play.  If he's there, it's because he's playing good.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT