US OPEN
September 2, 1999
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







USTA: Questions for Marcelo, please.

Q. Marcelo, you were getting some treatment after the match? Was that just massage? Was
it physical therapy?

MARCELO RIOS: Just physical right now. I have no injuries. I'm feeling much better from
last week's -- just massage and stretching a little bit. 

Q. After losing the first set, was there a sense of panic there, or was it just some
little adjustments that you had to make? 

MARCELO RIOS: I lost that game. When I change my shoes, I was a little bit sloppier.
But I think I start playing much better after he won the first set and I stopped -- start
hitting more the ball and feeling much better. 

Q. Are you feeling comfortable playing on this surface? You've played on it a number of
times now. Is it playing well for your type of game, now? 

MARCELO RIOS: I think I played pretty good. I felt really good today from baseline
hitting good backhands. I think it's much I play -- I feel much better.

Q. In general, are you feeling more comfortable on hardcourts? 

MARCELO RIOS: I always said I prefer slow hardcourts. That's my favorite right now. 

Q. And this is playing fast, this particular surface?

MARCELO RIOS: It's pretty fast. It's getting fast -- it's use getting fast for the US
Open. But my favorite is hard slow. 

Q. With the men's draw depleted by the Rafter and Sampras being out, do you see
yourself -- do you have high ambitions for this tournament? Do you see yourself possibly
getting into the semifinals, finals? Is that a realistic objective? 

MARCELO RIOS: I think everybody's playing good. It has nothing to do with Sampras or
Rafter's out. It's really competitive. Even if they're here, everybody can beat them. I
think it's tough enough a draw even if they're not there, and I think anybody can win. 

Q. How about next match with Kiefer? 

MARCELO RIOS: With who? 

Q. Kiefer. 

MARCELO RIOS: I play Kiefer next? 

Q. No, sorry, you don't. You play Goldstein or Kroslak. Have you played with them?

MARCELO RIOS: Never played them before. I don't even -- I never have seen them play
before. 

Q. Will you be playing Davis Cup? 

MARCELO RIOS: Yeah, I'm going to play Davis Cup. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT