REPUBLIC NATIONAL MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 24, 1999
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ATP:  Questions, please. 
 
Q.  Another tough match, the toughest of the week for you?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think the toughest one was the first one, winning 7-6 in the third.  The first round I think is the toughest one.  I think I got a lot of chances today, didn't take it.  First set, 1-Love, 15-30, after that I start playing pretty bad.  But I hang there, and I think I played a good third set.  I'm glad I won.  I think I played pretty good at the end, serving better, pretty happy.  
 

Q.  The second set, when he was leading 5-1, you tried to play more relaxed.  Did you hope you could win in two sets?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, I was playing too defensive until the 5-1.  Was tough to see; the sun was right in my eyes on the other side.  I miss-hit some balls.  That cost me the second set.  But I think the third set I played pretty good.  
 

Q.  You said you played Kuerten a couple of weeks ago.  What happened then?  How did that go?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I won 6-3, 6-4.  
 

Q.  Do you think also he was tired in the third?  Did you see that he was a little bit tired?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I don't know if he was tired.  He said he was tired yesterday, and he won 6-Love in the third (laughter).  But I think every time I move him around, was tough for him to come back.  But, like I said, I played a really good third set, serving better.  Once I start attacking, I think he didn't have a chance to beat me like that.  
 

Q.  Is it special to play a left-handed player for you as a left-hander?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think it's not much difference.  The only difference is in the serve.  I think the kick is totally different in a righty.  But I like to play lefties.  I think I feel more comfortable on the court.  I think every time I play a lefty, I play much better.  
 

Q.  Do you feel that you are at the same level as when you got to No.  1 now?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  For sure I'm not.  I play only four tournaments this year.  I'm not feeling the same.  I think important moments I get not the same as I used to be before, I get a little bit tight.  But for sure playing better, being in the final of Monte-Carlo again I think is pretty good. 
 

Q.  How did you feel with your back in the third set, everything all right?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Everything's fine with my back. 
 

Q.  It's only a bed memory now?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Huh?  
 

Q.  It's only a bad memory now?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, for sure.  I think my back is already a hundred percent.  I think I got four really tough months trying to recover.  Really happy that I'm back.  
 

Q.  It's the first time you met Jerome Golmard.  What is your impression?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think he's a good player.  He's not really regular.  He play two really good games and two really bad.  But he got a lot of shots.  Maybe he can improve a little bit his movement.  But I think he's a great player.  
 

Q.  If someone had told you three months ago that you would play the final in Monte-Carlo, would you have believed him?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I don't know.  I thought I was not going to play tennis again.  Now I'm coming here and play in the finals.  Like I say, I'm really happy I'm in the finals.  I'm trying to do my best.  The only thing I want to do is to play.  I don't think if I'm like the finest anymore.  But when I came back, the only thing I want to do is play. 
 

Q.  When you said you didn't think you'd play again, did the doctors tell you it was really bad?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  They said I was going to die (laughter).  No, they was  -- I felt pretty bad.  It hurts a lot.  When you have an injury like that, you say, "I'm coming back, I'm never going to win again, never be the same, start all over again."  I dropped from 2 to 13.  But things went right.  I think I have four months that I gave all what I got.  Now it's just paying back.  
 

Q.  The fact that you beat Kuerten two weeks ago is important psychologically?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think it's totally different.  Here is much faster.  We're going to play five sets.  For sure is going to be different match.  I think every match is different.  I think he's playing good; I'm playing good.  Tough match tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Did you see the semis against Mantilla?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I just saw the last game.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT