THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 22, 1999
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE LYNCH:  Questions in English. 
 

Q.  What was the most difficult for you tonight, his game or your lack of matches?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think it was both.  He played faster.  I was not used yet to play that kind of game.  I think I also missed too much.  I played a bad game the first game of the match.  I think after that he started playing much better.  
 

Q.  Is he hitting harder than Agassi?  Do you think he's the harder hitter between the two?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I don't think it's like that.  I think everybody play hard.  I think this guy, in his day, he's going to play good.  I think his ranking show where he is.  Once in a while, I think he play like that.  I was expecting him to make more errors.  
 

Q.  Are you worried at all by the points you're losing, or not at all?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I'm happy I'm coming back.  I'm happy I'm coming back again to play.  I knew it was going to be tough in the beginning, but I start got to start playing better.  
 

Q.  What is the most important thing for you to improve now at the moment? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think playing more matches.  I haven't played a lot of matches.  I think I need to play more tennis right now.  
 

Q.  For concentration or to get used  --?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  To get used to competition.  I've been off for a long time.  Play matches, play a lot of sets, get used to the rhythm of the players.  
 

Q.  It shows that not playing for a while is a problem for even top players like you. 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  For sure.  I think if you for a while don't play, just like that it's pretty tough.  I think today there's a lot of good players around.  If you're not ready, you're not going to win.  
 

Q.  Not only the Top 20 players good today, 60 or 70, all very competitive?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think everybody is playing good right now.  If you're not playing good, you can lose with anybody. 
 

Q.  So where are you heading?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I've got to see.  I've got to decide if I'm going to play Davis Cup or not. 
 

Q.  Is that next week for you?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yes.  I've got to see what I'm going to do right now.  I'm not sure.  
 

Q.  You will go and play clay court tournaments?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yes.  I'm starting the clay season after that.  
 

Q.  You said you need to play a lot more matches to get fit.  When you lose like that, does that set you back a little bit?  Does that help at all?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think you going to have a lot of matches like that in your career.  I think he played great.  I'm not in shape yet.  You got to be tough mentally.  
 

Q.  Does it affect you mentally?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I don't think so.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT