THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 21, 1999
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GREG SHARKO:  Marcelo moves into the round of 16.  Where he will play Dominik Hrbaty from Slovakia, the first time the two will have met.  Do we have any English questions first?  Okay.  
 

Q.  How are you feeling, obviously?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   I'm feeling much better.  More confidence.  I think I played pretty good from baseline today.  A different match from yesterday.  Like I said, each match I'm feeling better and trying to play my game.  
 

Q.  Marcelo, if you had to make an analogy to baseball this would be considered maybe batting practice for you for this round, you came through it somewhat easily, you were up 5-1 in the second set, are these the kinds of plays in the set you were interesting in playing?  Up at 5-1 how hard is it to put away the match, another analogy having the boxer in the match against the ropes?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   I don't think I do it because I want to do it, just because 5-1 is a practice some more so let's play some game.  Just it was 5-2, 40-Love and just play too relaxed, I think.  Playing better each time you play more relaxed, but the good news I think is I won. 
 

Q.  Marcelo, can you talk about the matches that you had last year at this time, you were on a role, do you feel you're still trying to get back to that point in terms of your approach?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   For sure it is different.  It is different how I came last year here and now, this is my second tournament of the year and last year I was in two finals, Australian Open and all that, but I'm fourth round I think I'm playing pretty good, more than what I expect.  I tried to play each match better. 
 

Q.  Marcelo, critics have -- tennis critics have criticized that you are like an artist on the court and you have wonderful flare and brilliance, are you tired of answering their questions that they think some of the points are looser, why doesn't he play it straight?  You are a champion and you're ranked high up in the tennis world, how do you answer those critics?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   Can you repeat again?  What are you trying to say?  
 

Q.  Okay.  Do you feel that the moments of brilliance that you have on the tennis court and some of the points that might be a little looser than some of the others, they may feel perhaps you're tanking some of the points, that you're not trying on some of the points, that you're giving points sporadically or not so often, how do you answer that?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   I don't think it is like that.  I think it is maybe some days I don't feel like playing and some journalists are just going to say I'm tanking.  I think today there are a lot of journalists that they are not journalists.  They just come as a journalist and they don't really know about the game, so just talk.  I think maybe I'm improving in that part.  Maybe become in Munich -- I think -- this is my job and I'm trying to do the best I can. 
 

Q.  Marcelo, is this kind of an ideal situation for you, there's so much talk about all these different players that have a shot at No.  1, you became No.  1 last year here and you're defending champ, there's not as much of a glaring spotlight on you?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   No, I don't think so.  I think once you win and everybody is with you.  Once you're not doing that good or once you're off for a month you're like in the past, but I think I'm playing my tennis, playing my thing, I think I'm going my way.   
   
 
Q.  Let's talk about when you were No.  1.  What do you feel you brought to the game of tennis as the No. 1 player at that time, what are you most proud to bring to a game?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   For sure being No.  1 of South America I think that helped a lot in my country, in South America, being the first one.  I think since I've been No.  1 in Chile, it's been growing, tennis.  Every No.  1 helps for tennis. 
 

Q.  Marcelo, how do you like it here in South Florida?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   Well, I think it is a nice place.  I don't go out that much here.  I'm just playing tennis.  Each time I'm liking more. 
 

Q.  Never been down to South Beach or taking advantage of the recreations?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   I went downtown to do a Nike thing there, but I don't go too much. 
 

Q.  Do you feel you are at 100 percent physically right now?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   I think yes.  Maybe -- it doesn't hurt anymore but maybe a little weak still in my back, but no pain.  I think I'm each day going better. 
 

Q.  Does it help you with having your fans, the Chilean fans screaming as much as they do?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   Yes, for sure.  Being on the court --. 
 

Q.  Doesn't distract you at all?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   No, I don't think so.  You get used to it.  When you win a point, they support you; also when you lose, they support you.  It's fun. 
 

Q.  Did you come into 1999 with certain goals of I want to accomplish this and this and this and has the injury kind of frustrated you in that regard?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   When I begun the year, I was injured already, so all I want to do is get better.  I never say I want to have this ranking.  I'm just trying to get better.  And once I get better and play like I used to play, I think I'm going to put some goals. 
 

Q.  How important is a diet for a professional athlete such as yourself as far as your performance, this is a two-week event, like the Grand Slams, is there anything to it as far as the diet of a professional tennis player such as yourself?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   I think you should ask a guy that knows about diets.  I think everybody is different.  It all depends where you come from. 
 

Q.  What would be typical for   --?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   I eat --. 
 

Q.  Breakfast, lunch and dinner?
 
MARCELO RIOS:   I just eat like a normal guy. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT