ATP Tour World Championship
November 26, 1998
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 DAVID HIGDON: Marcelo Rios, as you know, pulled out of the tournament. He has a
strained left gluteus maximus, which is right back here (indicating), for all you glut
fans. He'll take questions. 
 
Q. When did you realize that you cannot play?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I think you always wait till the last minute. I practiced this morning,
and I can feel it a little bit. I knew, like, you don't want to pull out, so you wait
until a few minutes before you play. 
 
Q. How severe is it at the moment?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Well, it's really, really sore. It's so sore that I can't go into the
court. I think maybe I can play. But we're professionals, and if we're in the court, we
want to do a hundred percent and do really good to win. There's no sense to go on the
court and play two games. So was bad not enough to play. 
 
Q. You said yesterday after you had the scan that you felt better, that you felt fit,
there was no problem. It got worse again this morning?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Yesterday, I didn't play. Like when I'm sitting down or walking, I don't
feel it. But this morning, I went to play, to serve, to try to move, and it's not good to
play. I think it's really sore. 
 
Q. How big a blow is this to you coming at this particular time?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I think it's really bad. Even if you see from any tournament, pulling out
of a tournament is always bad, and you don't feel good. But that's the way it goes, I
think. That make you think more, for next time take more care of your body and try to make
things better. 
 
Q. There was a lot more at stake this week than there would be in many tournaments?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Yeah, for sure. But I didn't have the bad luck, that was this week.
That's the way it goes. 
 
Q. Sampras is now No. 1 six years in a row. How big an achievement do you think that
is?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: For sure it's really good. I think win six year No. 1, first time in
history. It's really good. 
 
Q. Would you believe or think that that could ever be broken, the way the game is
structured today?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: It's pretty hard to say if it's going to be broken or someone's going to
do better. I think a lot of good players that can do it right now. But I can't tell you
who or when, but I think can someone make it one day. 
 
Q. There was a press conference yesterday. Did you for a moment think about pulling out
of the tournament at this point yesterday maybe?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: If I would have pulled out yesterday, I would say. But I never thought
about it. Like I went to sleep last night thinking about playing today. But I didn't
practice that much yesterday. I didn't make that much -- I didn't force it that much.
Coming to practice today, I can feel it really bad. 
 
Q. Have the doctors or the physios given you any idea of anything you might be able to
do to stop this coming back to you in the future?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I've got to do a lot of exercise and try to make stronger that part so it
doesn't come again. I have it before three years ago, and came back now. I think just try
to build it like stronger and not come back. 
 
Q. Did you have bigger disappointments in your career than today?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Maybe you don't feel it that bad right now. But once you start thinking
about it, you could be No. 1 or stop Sampras to break the record, maybe you get a little
disappointed. But I just got to take it like one more tournament that you couldn't play.
That's the way you got to go. 
 
Q. When you go back now and have a rest, start working with your new coach, what do you
think Luis Lobo is going to help you with most? Is it going to be anything technical or
just being somebody that understands you that can travel with you?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: We know how to play tennis. I think he's not going to teach me how to hit
the forehand or backhand. But I think he's great motivator, like being in the court, he's
like always trying to do his best. I think he's been around a lot of time. He can know a
lot of the game. Also can play some doubles. 
 
Q. Were you deliberately looking for someone who wasn't too distant from you in terms
of age to have as a coach?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: No, I never thought about that. I know him really good, like for a lot of
years ago. But I never thought about being younger than me or close to my age. I just look
at him because I thought it was a great chance to have him as a coach. 
 
Q. What are you planning to do in the next month before going to Australia, if you go
to Australia?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I'm going to take a rest now for a couple weeks. 
 
Q. Santiago?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I'm going back to Santiago, then start practicing for three weeks, doing
some gym and playing some tennis. 
 
Q. First event you will play in '99?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I think it's Auckland. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT