ATP Tour World Championship
November 24, 1998
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Towards the end of the first set you might have just tweaked your leg a bit. 
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I didn't understand. 
 
Q. It seemed you might have pulled a muscle in your leg a little bit.
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Yeah, I think I was in a really bad position right now. My back is really
bad. I can't hold my back right now. It's like killing; it's hurting really, really,
really a lot. I think it's going to be really tough to continue playing. I've been having
this for the last two months. I think I'm not in a great condition right now to keep on
playing. 
 
Q. Has that been since Munich, this injury?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Yes, this started in Munich. The thing is when I go back to clay, I know
it doesn't hurt. I come into hard courts, and suddenly it just start hurting one day from
another. It's not feeling very good the last months, two months. I don't know. 
 
Q. When you say you don't think you can play anymore, does it mean you're pulling out
of this tournament or not?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: No. I'm going to see how I wake up tomorrow. I think when your body is
warm up, it doesn't feel that bad, but when it's cool down. For sure I want to play. I
think I'm having the chance to be No. 1. I want to play. But I think the body is the one
that's stopping right now. I have to see how it feels tomorrow. 
 
Q. Did you need a lot of treatment to get you on court?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Well, we have massage, put some hot stuff before you play. I think it's
not enough. I think it's more than that. I'm going to try to have some treatment today,
tonight, tomorrow, see how it's going. 
 
Q. Is the injury the reason why you not win?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: That question is not very nice, I think. I can't blame -- I can't say
that because of my injury I didn't win. To beat Henman, you've got to be a hundred
percent. He's a great player. Maybe I could do a better match if I was not injured. But I
think this level you got to be a hundred percent to win.  
 
Q. Was it ever a question that you might not come back home from Santiago to play here?
Did that go through your mind?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Never. I was feeling really good, like playing clay. I practice here,
first days I was feeling really good. I was really motivated to play, I try to do my best.
I mean, really bad luck with the back. Like I say, right now the body is the one that's
talking. I think we're professionals like this. We don't go to the court just to play two
games. I think if we go to the court, it's to win. If you're not ready to do it, you just
got to listen to your body. 
 
Q. Does this restrict you most on the forehand side?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Really a lot on my forehand and my serve. The weird thing is when I'm
walking or sitting down, it doesn't hurt at all. When I'm playing, maybe the tension of
the match, being on the court, running, that make you start hurting. 
 
Q. Is it something which comes and goes; you have it one day and not the next?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: No. I have this like three years ago; it never came back again. Since
like three months ago, it came again. I don't know. It's really weird. 
 
Q. How did you cure it last time? Was it through rest?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Yeah. I have rest a couple months. Have treatment. I've been not having
treatment because I've been playing, haven't had a lot of weeks off to say, "Okay,
I'm going to have treatment, not play." One day, I start playing again, it come
again, then you need a long rest to take care of an injury. 
 
Q. Could you feel it throughout the match tonight?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Well, I've been talking that for the last five minutes. I felt it in the
match. 
 
Q. When did you exactly realize the pain was coming back? Was there any certain
movement you did or something?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: It was the last two days at the end of the day it was really stiff. It
start bothering me a little bit. Today when I went back, I could feel a little bit. I
think when the match start getting like close, I don't know if it's the tension of the
match, you start feeling it more. It's tough to run. It's tough to play with pain. 
 
Q. Is it something maybe sitting on an airplane for ten hours doesn't do it any good,
for instance?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Well, I don't think I have advantage in that point, like all the
Europeans just fly two hours and come and play. I got to travel 15 hours to come. Always
is maybe the reason, being 15 hours in a plane, come back, change hours. So it was pretty
tough. 
 
Q. Yesterday you told me I should ask you today about the audience, the crowd, people
in the hall. How do you like them?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Well, I couldn't enjoy that much. I can't tell you if it was good or bad.
I saw a lot of Chilean people supporting me. That make you feel pretty good. Even if
you're far from a country, they're supporting you. I would say thanks to the people that
support me all over the world. 
 
Q. You beat Henman pretty easily at Lipton, and again on clay in Rome. Do you think
he's a better player now than he was then?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I think he's always been a good player. Not because I beat him easy or
two times mean that he's not good. I think he has a pretty good serve, really good
volleys. I think he has improved a lot. His record has improved a lot, he's Top 10 now.
Like I say, you got to be a hundred percent to beat these guys. 
 
Q. Have you got a new coach already?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Yeah. 
 
Q. Who is it?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: He's doubles players, Lobo. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT