ATP Tour World Championship
November 23, 1998
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What is it with the back?

MARCELO RIOS: I've been having these back problems every time I play hard court, come
back, come indoors. I've been having problems for a long time.

Q. What do you think of Hannover, the town?

MARCELO RIOS: I have not seen much. I've been in the hotel, the club, that's it. So
cold, it's not very nice to go outside. Not been going out that much.

Q. Is it a problem for you to change from the surfaces in such a short time, indoor,
then clay, then indoor hard court?

MARCELO RIOS: Sure, I think it's really tough. It's more tough. I have to travel all
the way to Santiago. Go to Santiago, come back. I was in Europe, play clay, come back.
It's pretty tough. But that's the way it goes. I live pretty far. I don't have another
chance to do it, that's the only way.

Q. Is it something for you to play in your own country?

MARCELO RIOS: Everybody likes to play at home. It's like playing Davis Cup. Everybody's
supporting you. Everybody's with you. I always have a great time. I always play good. This
year was an exception. Maybe I was a bit tired. I have a great time every time I play at
home.

Q. Did you have a chance to have some rest?

MARCELO RIOS: I had a week off, but I couldn't like rest. I was practicing, tried to
stay fit. I had to come here, so I couldn't like relax as like a vacation. But I have a
couple of days to rest.

Q. What makes you a rebel on the Tour?

MARCELO RIOS: What means rebel?

Q. Someone who doesn't stick to the rules.

MARCELO RIOS: That makes rebel? If you make me the right question, I can answer you.
I'm trying to understand what you say.

Q. What do you think of the surface, if you compare the Grand Slam Cup, same kind of
surface?

MARCELO RIOS: I think maybe it's a little bit faster. I think it's pretty fair. It's
much slower than before. I think this court is good, same as Stuttgart. I think the slower
the court, the better for people to watch. I think it's a good surface.

Q. How do you rate the guys you're playing against, the three in the group?

MARCELO RIOS: I think everybody's tough right now. If I have the other group, it would
be tough also. I think everybody's playing good. Everybody is the top player there.
Anybody you play is going to be tough.

Q. What are your expectations?

MARCELO RIOS: I'll take like one more tournament. Maybe when you start playing, you
start winning, you are going to be more excited about it. I take it like one more match,
try to play good, try to do my best.

Q. What would it mean being No. 1 at the end of this year, would it mean more than when
you got it the first time in the spring?

MARCELO RIOS: Some people say it's better to finish the year No. 1. Some people just
say being No. 1 is pretty good. I think when you play good, the ranking will come by
itself. I'm not worried about it, if I'm going to be 1, 2 or 3. I just got to play. The
only chance I got to be No. 1 is play on the court. I have to focus more to play on the
court than thinking about being No. 1.

Q. Does it put some extra pressure on you in a way, knowing it could come down to just
one match here?

MARCELO RIOS: No. I think I'm feeling pretty good. I'm playing good. When you doing
things good, you don't put pressure on yourself. I think it's a thing I know how to do. I
think it's not pressure. I think I'm really excited to play. I'm feeling pretty good.

Q. When you go back to Santiago, do they recognize you more?

MARCELO RIOS: We don't have a lot of support. I think the better you do, the more like
people that know you. I always say I always feel real support in Chile. People support me
a lot. That's why I like a lot to go over there, everybody's supporting you. They
demonstrate it there with you. Every time you win, they show you that they happy.

Q. (Inaudible)?

MARCELO RIOS: It's pretty tough, but I don't go shopping anyway.

Q. What do you like to do?

MARCELO RIOS: I'm not really a fan of music. I like everything. I like it a lot, but I
like more like Latin music.

Q. Have you heard about the audience here in Hannover?

MARCELO RIOS: Heard about what?

Q. The crowd here, the people.

MARCELO RIOS: This is the first time I'm here, so I don't know what is going on.

Q. You have heard nothing about it?

MARCELO RIOS: What do you mean? It's a tough crowd? I'll have to play. After my match,
I'll tell you.

Q. If you become No. 1, will you celebrate in a special way?

MARCELO RIOS: I'll have to think about it. I think I will go back home and stay there
for a couple weeks. Have three weeks off vacation. But I don't have -- I haven't say like
if I win what I going to do. I think it's going to come by itself.

Q. (Inaudible)?

MARCELO RIOS: I think everybody is different. Some people say I'm a nice guy; some
people don't. The same as me: I think some people are nice, some I don't. That's the way
people think about everybody. If I start getting worried about what people say, I think I
would go crazy.

Q. (Inaudible)?

MARCELO RIOS: I'm not really into it. I'm playing tennis. I don't have that much time
to know what's going on. I know some things is going on in my country.

Q. (Inaudible)?

MARCELO RIOS: I think I'm in another, like another area. I'm not into politics. I'm
playing sports. I hope to learn a lot about what's going on there.

Q. How is tennis compared in Chile with soccer?

MARCELO RIOS: I think tennis is pretty big right now, some young kids have been doing
good. I've been doing good. I think the first sport is still soccer.

Q. When did you wear a suit the last time?

MARCELO RIOS: I don't remember. I always wear a suit, but I don't remember when was the
last time.

Q. Was something you learned last week for focus on the game?

MARCELO RIOS: Every match you play, you know something, about your game, about your
life. Every match, every practice you make, you learn a little bit. I think you never stop
learning about the game.

Q. What about schedule?

MARCELO RIOS: I don't know yet. I haven't made yet for next year. Maybe I play less
tournaments next year.

Q. Do you like such press conferences?

MARCELO RIOS: I love press conferences. (laughter)

Q. Why? Why do you love them?

MARCELO RIOS: Because they make nice questions. They make really like nice questions.

Q. Every time the same?

MARCELO RIOS: It's pretty the same.

Q. If you look back at the start of the year and the goals you set for yourself, have
you achieved what you set for yourself? 

MARCELO RIOS: When I begun the year, I wanted to like qualify for Masters. I did it.
That was my goal. I'm in Top 5; I did it also. It's been a good year.

Q. Were you, in that respect, then surprised how quickly you got to the top, at least
for the time?

MARCELO RIOS: No, I think I don't say the word "surprised." I knew I was
playing pretty good. I think if you do things good, prepare pretty good, things will come
by itself. I don't think "surprised" is the right word.

Q. How would you describe it, instead of using "surprised"?

MARCELO RIOS: I think it came pretty soon, like at the beginning of the year. A couple
tournaments, I was No. 1. Like I say, I was playing pretty good.

Q. Do you have idea what your outlook would be for next year, your priorities?

MARCELO RIOS: I don't know yet. I don't know which tennis I'm going to play yet. But
for sure I think I'm going to play less tournaments.

Q. I assume winning a Grand Slam is very high on the agenda then for next year?

MARCELO RIOS: Obviously I'm looking forward to trying to win a Slam. This year I was
pretty close. Maybe one of my goals next year will be to win a Slam. 

Q. What do you think of the rules being set by the ATP?

MARCELO RIOS: I said I think some rules are not fair. I didn't say like what they put.
I read that they said that I said they treat us like military. I never said like that. I
think there are some rules that are not fair.

Q. What rules?

MARCELO RIOS: Some rules. I don't want to talk about that now. There's some rules that
for me I don't like it. There's a lot of rules that I think is not fair for everybody.
That's the only thing I said. I'm not going to tell the rules that I think are not fair. I
think there are a lot of rules a lot of players don't like it. You have to discuss it. I
don't think it's the right time to say the rules I don't like.

Q. How much do the players talk in general about sort of the "2000 thing" of
changing the whole Tour and circuit? Do you guys see what's going on with these various
offers for the tournaments?

MARCELO RIOS: There's some players that are in the council of ATP; they discuss about
those things. But I don't get into it that much. I'm not talking about what's going on,
the rankings. I think I've never been really, really in that type of things, like talking
about the ATP. I think I'm going my way. When they ask me what I think, I just say my
feelings.

Q. What about your image as a rebel?

MARCELO RIOS: Like I say, I think everybody's different. Some people think I don't like
the press. Some people think that I don't like to answer. Like I said, I don't think I
have a bad image. I think some people put me a bad image. That's been going around the
world. Everybody's saying I'm the bad guy of the Tour. I don't know what they mean by
being bad. I think I'm the same as everybody. I go on the court, play the same as
everybody, go to the press like a normal guy. I don't know what they mean. Nobody have
never answered what they mean by saying "the bad guy."

Q. In Chile, are a lot more people playing?

MARCELO RIOS: I think since I've been doing good, some juniors been doing good, it's
much bigger right now. They're doing more clinics. They have my matches on TV. Tennis is
getting pretty big right now.

Q. Do you have plans to go out in Hannover? Have you been to restaurants?

MARCELO RIOS: Just arrived, been practicing a lot. It's pretty cold to go outside.

Q. Are you coming to the player party?

MARCELO RIOS: If I don't play, maybe I'm going. I think I don't make plans like the
next day. I have to see when I play, what's going on.

Q. What do you do after?

MARCELO RIOS: I take a shower, I eat, and I go to sleep.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT