COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
October 3, 1998
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. You have a big advance, very short, very close match for you.  You and Andre had to play a lot of times. Do you see it like this? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I didn't understand anything. 
 

Q. You have a big advance now.  Andre had to play five sets; you had to play only three sets.  This is a big advance for tomorrow because there's only one night to sleep?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I don't think it's that much difference.  Like he play a fifth set, but it's only like 20 minutes.  I think once you're on the court, you get tired anyway.  I think the pressure and everything is going on, made you tired.  But I think I'm going to play a great match.  We always play a great match.  We play only one time.  We have good rallies.  I think it's going to be a great match tomorrow.  
 

Q. Can you tell us a little bit how you work with Nick Bollettieri?  What are the main advantages that you see in him?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I've been with Nick like a long time.  I always go to his academy.  He's always trying to support me.  I think he's a good motivator.  He give you a lot of energy on the court.  He make you practice hard.  I think when he's around, you really pump up and you try to do your best.  I think, like I said, he's a great motivator. 
 

Q. Do you think it's a special advantage to have him as a coach when you play Agassi?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think it doesn't make much difference.  I think when the player is in the court, you got to do the game.  Once you're in the court, the player you're playing is the one to play.  Even if he tell me to do something, if I can't do it, I got to try to change myself.  Once I'm on the court, I'm the one that's going to win or lose. 
 

Q. How is the relationship between you and Andre Agassi?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, we talk once in a while, some things.  But we're not very good friends.  I think you here to play tennis, not make friends, like I always say.  He looks like a nice guy.  
 

Q. What do you expect for tomorrow?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I expect to win.  I expect to play like I've been playing each match better.  I was not playing very good last weeks.  I think this give me a lot of confidence.  I'm looking forward to play Andre.  I like to play him.  I like to compare against him.  Like I say, I think it's going to be a great match.  I'm looking forward to play. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT