TMS - MADRID
October 14, 2002
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

Q.  How was your first day? 

MARCELO RIOS:  I felt good.  I've been training for a couple of days, and I've adapted quite quickly.  It's always good to win your first match, and we'll try to go on and do the best as possible. 

Q.  Next opponent is Federer.  Difficult opponent? 

MARCELO RIOS:  Yes, he's a very good all-around player.  He has a good serve and volley.  To win, I have to play very well.  I have to serve well.  I hope to play a good match. 

Q.  What are your goals for this tournament?  What do you expect? 

MARCELO RIOS:  I never think of reaching a certain stage.  I mean, I just want to play well.  If you play well, the results will come anyway.  The important thing is to play well.

Q.  You played well and you felt physically good, in good physical shape? 

MARCELO RIOS:  I still have a bit of soreness in my knee, but now it's getting better.  I didn't have that much pressure on my knee during the match.  Physically, I felt good, although I haven't trained much before this tournament.  I've been quite relaxed.  I didn't play that much in preparation for the tournament.  The break has been good for me. 

Q.  Are you going to Switzerland?

MARCELO RIOS:  No, I'm just going Stockholm and then to Paris.  I have an exhibition in Santiago with Fernandez.

Q.  What do you think of the surface? 

MARCELO RIOS:  The training courts aren't that good, but the center court was good.  I think after I've played a couple of matches, I will feel great on this surface. 

Q.  Do you feel in good spirit?

MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, I felt relaxed.  Obviously, when you win, everything works.  But personally, emotionally, I feel good. 

Q.  Are there lots of Chilean banners?

MARCELO RIOS:  Wherever I go, there's always one or two Chilean banners.  It's important to see that. 

Q.  Do you trust you will become again No.  1?

MARCELO RIOS:  I'm doing as much as I can.  I'm going to try to climb up the rankings.  My goal is to be in the Top 20.  I think that's a fair goal. 

Q.  Are you going to keep on without a coach?

MARCELO RIOS:  So far yes.  Maybe next year I'll try to find a coach.  I will see at the end of this year. 

Q.  Do you have any names in mind for coaches?  Have you been in negotiations?

MARCELO RIOS:  No.  I don't have any names to say. 

Q.  Rios, Gonzalez, Massu, there is a boom in Chilean tennis? 

MARCELO RIOS:  It's the best ever.  The Chilean tennis has never been as good as it is now.  I am very happy that the Chilean team is getting more solid, trustworthy.  I think that Fernando has a lot of potential and he will go far.  Massu will be a bit slower.

Q.  You were the first Chilean to make it so high in the rankings.  Do you feel a responsibility because of that? 

MARCELO RIOS:  When I started, there weren't so many players.  But now they're starting to promote the young players. 

Q.  When you play with an Argentinian like Gaudio, do you have any bad feelings that you lost the Davis Cup? 

MARCELO RIOS:  No, it's never to blame on the players if you lost.  No, that's part of the past.  What happened happened. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT