THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 25, 1998
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH:  Nine straight match wins now for Marcelo Rios.  He'll face Tim Henman in the semifinals. He's now two match wins away from No. 1.  Take English questions first, then Spanish. 
 

Q. Marcelo, did you notice anything before he called a trainer?  Was it total surprise for you?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  No, I didn't know he was injured. He told me after the match that he was injured from yesterday, when he play yesterday, after his match.  I had no idea.  He couldn't hit his forehand at the end, that's what he told me.  But before the match, I didn't know. 
 

Q. Petr Korda was telling us that he was trying not to think about the No. 1.  Apparently, it's very difficult for you, because we're reminding you about No. 1.  Is it something you can forget or think calmly about it?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I'm not thinking about being No. 1.  I think I'm playing each match, try to do my best, not think that even if I win the match, I'll be closer to being No. 1.  I'm just playing matches. 
 

Q. Really?  It's not too difficult to forget?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, maybe you sometimes think about it, you can become No. 1 if the win the tournament.  I think during the match, you're not thinking about it. 
 

Q. The key part of the first set, the break?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think the first two games were -- the first game I have some chances with 30-All, deuce.  But he served big.  I think the conditions were really tough, it was really windy.  You couldn't hit the ball really clean or go for your shots.  I think it was 15-30, serving, I hit a ball, a really good point.  I think that was the key.  After that it went 2-All and I broke him back. 
 

Q. What do you think about your next opponent?  Have you played him, Tim Henman?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I practice a lot with him.  I have never played him in a tournament.  He's a great serve and volley player.  He's really tough to beat if he's playing good.  He's playing really good.  I think it's going to be a tough match. 
 

Q. No. 1, what does it mean for you?  Is it something  as important as to win a Grand Slam or is it something that you think we the media make important?  What is your feeling about it?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Everyone that play the Tour, everyone that do something, want to be the best in the world.  If you're a soccer player, you want to be the best in the world, or if you're a tennis player.  I think it's mean a lot.  I'm really close, so it's going to be like really good if I'm No. 1. 
 

Q. What in your mind did you have to put together during the last month to really become that consistent and so strong?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think I've been playing more, like more intelligent, not go so much for shots, giving free points, focus all the match, even if you losing some games or even if you sit down, try to fight, try to come back.  I think that helps me, be really focused the whole match, even if you losing. 
 

Q. What did you improve on your serve?  You never lose your serve now, once in one week?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think I'm making a lot of first serves, putting the first serve in.  After that, you can play really relaxed your game.  You have more chances to hit winners.  I think the key is to put the first serve in.  
 

Q. We have been told that your ratings on TV were incredible tonight in Chile.  What does it feel like for you to be a hero of a country?  Do you feel it?  What is the feeling?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  You don't feel the same as being there.  I know there's a lot of people behind me.  I felt like when I was in Chile and they played Chile against Bolivia soccer World Cup, I started thinking that was maybe the same feeling like I was feeling, like going to a friend's house and see the match, everybody's going crazy to see a soccer match.  Maybe the same with me.  Everybody's like meeting in the house to see a tennis match. 
 

Q. It's a good feeling?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, it's a good feeling. 
 

Q. Marcelo, you know Sales in person?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yes. 
 

Q. Did you talk with him, like being that hero?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I don't know him that much.  I've been with him, talk to him like three times.  But I think it's tough to see him.  He's playing soccer and I playing tennis, we don't have a chance to see each other.  I saw him one time like in Chile one time.  Another time I saw him maybe in Europe. 
 

Q. What do you think of him?  Do you think he's as big  as you in the country?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I don't know.  Two different sports.  He's doing good.  I'm doing good.  I think it's different. 
 

Q. With being successful comes a lot of attention, media attention, for instance.  Do you feel comfortable or do you sometimes think you wouldn't like to have that?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think it's part of the game. You're doing good, all the journalists or people from the media want to talk to you.  I think it's fine.  I think it's fine when you do it at certain times. When you got to talk to the press, talk to the press.  But when journalists call you at 7:00 in the morning, I don't think it's really a good feeling. 
 

Q. When you were a child, could you dream to be such a hero for Chile?  Is it something you were dreaming of, or something you couldn't imagine?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  When I was young, I was trying to make school.  It was so tough, I wasn't thinking being a hero.  I was concentrate going to school, trying to do good in school.  That was it.  I never thought about playing tennis, about playing the Tour.  I never thought about it. I didn't even know like what was the Tour or what was playing tennis tournament.  Never thought about it. 
 

Q. What do you think about the Chilean people  supporting you night after night?  Do you think they play a good role for you?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah.  Every match I play, today was I think the best crowd ever.  It was really full.  It was like playing Davis Cup.  Indian Wells was also a lot of people in the final.  It helps you a lot.  I think like in tough moments, people like scream for you, even if you're losing.  Make you like a big support.  I think you win some matches because of the crowd. 
 

Q. Help me to understand.  You're a very cool guy on the court, try to be -- it's hard to read you on the court. But then there's maybe a lot of excitement out there.  How does that interact?  How do you draw from the excitement while you're so cool?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I didn't know I was cool on the court (laughter).  I think everybody have different personality. That's the way I am.  I don't think about being cool or not being cool.  That's who I am. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT