NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 13, 1998
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKI SINGH:  Marcelo, 6-4, 6-2 today over Petr Korda.  First question for Marcelo. 
 

Q.  Marcelo, how was this a different match than the Australian Open final for you?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think maybe the conditions were like a little bit different.  I think he play with fast ball, you play really good.  I think he was on a roll, playing really good at the Australian Open.  I think if I play good, if I play around, play like my game, not playing too fast, I think I have a lot of chances to beat him.  A lot of times he plays good when he's hitting good the ball.  I think it was a great match; I play really good. 
 

Q.  In the first set, when he came back and won three or four games in a row, did you let down a little?  What happened?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, 5-1, I was playing really  good, giving him no chances to win games.  I think he played really good the three games.  He went for winners.  I think when he was down, like he had nothing to lose.  He went for it, and he almost break me back.  We went almost 5-All.  I think I served really good that game.  After that, I think I have the control of the match. 
 

Q.  You lost very few points on your serve.  Was that a key to, like you said, controlling the points?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Sure.  When I played Australian Open, I didn't make a lot of first serves, my legs were really tired there.  I'm feeling pretty good.  Have two weeks off.  I'm feeling really good physically.  When you serve good, I think it's the key.  You can, like, play the games.  I served really good wide.  He couldn't return that much. 
 

Q.  Do you think in Australia you were a little overwhelmed because it was your first Grand Slam final?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I didn't think about it.  I think when you're in the court, you don't think you're playing for that.  You're playing for winning.  I think you play one more match.  I think it was a bad day.  You also have really bad days, where you can't play really good.  I play a lot of time with Korda.  I beat him a lot,  he beat me also.  I think we're really close. 
 

Q.  Two weeks off make your legs strong enough to do the cart wheel?  Was that important?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah.  I was injured.  My knee was hurting.  I took two weeks off.  So I rest a lot, get some treatment.  I think I came really good, really focused on this tournament. 
 

Q.  But the little cartwheel afterwards?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  The little what? 
 

Q.  Did you do a little cartwheel?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  What do you mean by saying "cartwheel"?  I didn't know you called it.  Every time I play to him, he do it right in your face.  Not really a nice like moment.  I do it because every time now I play him, I beat him, I'm going to do it (laughter). 
 

Q.  I spoke with Guillermo Vilas.  He says you're the most talented South American on the Tour now.  He thinks you're a great player, that he spent a lot of time talking with you.
 
MARCELO RIOS:  He said he spend a lot of time talking to you? 
 

Q.  Has he not?  If you did have talks, was he at all encouraging or helpful or anything?  You don't remember the conversation? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I don't know him that much.  I saw him a couple of times.  But I never like talk that much with him. 
 

Q.  He thinks you have.  Has Larry Stefanki made any changes in your game, Marcelo?  What has he done to help you?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think more than change the game, we get along really good.  He's done a great job.  He helped me a lot in motivation, try to play loose.  I think he help me a lot on that part. 
 

Q.  Let me ask you this.  Since Vilas was so important --
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Why you talking from Vilas so much? Because he was so important to most South Americans.  Does it mean anything to you that he thinks you're talented.  That's fine.  What were you asking? 
 

Q.  I was asking whether it means anything to you, since he was so important to tennis in South America, that he thinks you're so talented?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, first, I never saw playing Vilas in my life.  Never saw him play in a match.  I knew he was a great player, really, really good.  But I never saw him play. 
 

Q.  Marcelo, what do you know by Andre Agassi's game? The record shows you haven't played him. 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I haven't played him, never.  Have to play the match.  He's a really good player.  He's playing really good.  Haven't lose a match for, I don't know, three weeks.  It's going to be a tough match.  But I'm playing real well, with confidence.  I think I can beat him. 
 

Q.  Marcelo, excuse me if you've been asked this question already, but what inspired you to do the little cartwheel at the end?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I'll say for the second time. Like every time I play him, like he do it. 
 

Q.  He does a little kick?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah.  I think it's -- I don't know if he do it because he like to do it because he's winning, he's happy.  I don't think it's a nice moment when he do it.  Lose a match, he do it right there.  Oh, well, maybe I'm going to do it every time I beat him (laughter). 
 

Q.  Would you consider the scissors kick instead?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I was going to do it, but I didn't practice (laughter).  That's a tough one. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT