COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
September 23, 1997
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. I think you are satisfied with your start here, first appearance Grand Slam Cup? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah.  Coming from India, playing the next day, I think I play pretty good.  I was playing on grass two days ago, and coming to play indoors, very fast. I'm really happy about what I did today.  I thought it was a tough match.  I think I played really good. 
 

Q. How did you find it, playing in India?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  How did I what? 
 

Q. How did you find playing in India?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  It was not that bad.  They told me it was going to be really hard.  But it was very hot, really hot, and humid, and more playing on grass there was tougher for us that we came from clay.  So it was really tough.  But it was not that bad. 
 

Q. Can you pinpoint any specific reasons as to why things have turned for you this year in your career? Because it really has been quite an outstanding season for you. 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think I have improved a lot my concentration on the court, and don't getting pissed like fast, every time I lose a point getting pissed.  I think also trying to fight until the end, even if you lose the first set or you're down, trying to fight every point, because you can win the match.  I think after the French Open when I played two matches in a row being two sets down, I realize even if you lose, you can win the match. 
 

Q. Do you think a lot of it really has come with maturity, getting a bit older as well?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, maybe.  Maybe when you're younger and come, you don't know what you are going to expect, you lose.  I think the more you get on The Tour, the more years you're playing, you realize what's going on. 
 

Q. Who would you prefer in the next round to play?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Who do I play? 
 

Q. Rafter or Muster.
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, both are tough.  I don't care.  Whatever. 
 

Q. Last week at Davis Cup in Washington, Pete Sampras was saying that because Rafter won the US Open, he is "A marked man; everybody wants him now."  Would you feel the same way going into a match if you were to play Patrick?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think not because he won the  Open, you can't beat him.  I think maybe everybody wants to play him.  But, I haven't think about it.  You just say, but I would like to play Rafter after like being the US Open Champion. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT