US OPEN
September 4, 1997
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Marcelo, how frustrating is it after such a great comeback you made in this match? 
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Well, I think I was playing really good. In the third set, I serve
against the wind. That was the key game. I think I win that game for 4-All. Have some
breakpoints after. I think he's a tough guy, tough guy to beat. To beat him, I don't have
to make mistakes in important moments. 
 
Q. You lost to him before four times. Did you feel like you were really close of
breaking that?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I think every time I play, even if he beat me, I'm always up a break,
always a break in the first set. Also that's the important game. Maybe if I win the first
set in any match, the score will be totally different. 
 
Q. What makes it so difficult for you to play him?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Well, I think it's not for me. I think it's for everybody. He's a great
player. He play really good from baseline. He run every ball. 
 
Q. Did you realize this could have been kind of a breakthrough for you going to the
semis, being so close? How does it feel?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Like any tournament. Nothing special. 
 
Q. You complained quite a bit about the calls. You think that the American linesmen are
biased in favor for Americans?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I don't think if they're bad. I think they make really a lot of mistakes.
That's for both. They make a lot of mistakes. They should have something like another
system, maybe a computer to make the cause. If the linesman is not ready, you can't do it. 
 
Q. Were you aware in the crowd, the people waving the Chilean flag?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I was really concentrate on the match. I wasn't looking to the crowd. It
was full place. But I was only concentrate on the match. 
 
Q. What was the difference today? Why you actually didn't win?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I think this was the first set, the break, I was a break up, and I didn't
win that set. Then in the fifth, breaking me 3-All, I think that was like important game. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT