US OPEN
September 2, 1997
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. With Pete being out of the tournament, going out last night, does it change a lot of
the people's focus? Do you think maybe this is an opportunity?

MARCELO RIOS: I think it's the same. I think everybody's playing good; not because
Sampras not in the tournament, it's going to be easier. I think everybody's good; not
because No. 1 in the world is out you can say that it's an easy tournament.

Q. Marcelo, when you played him last time on a hardcourt, you had a tight match with
Sergi. Are you thinking you're playing --

MARCELO RIOS: The second time I play Sergi, I play him one time indoors. I also beat
him, but it was a tough match. I think Sergi is a great baseline player. I thought it was
going to be a tough match. I think I play really good, really concentrated, hitting really
good the ball. 

Q. What's bigger for you, reaching the quarters in Melbourne or reaching the quarters
here?

MARCELO RIOS: I think both are Grand Slams, and I play the quarters there with Chang. I
play maybe again with Chang. I think it's going to be like we talk about the match, both
are a Grand Slam, same.

Q. Are you playing better here than in Melbourne?

MARCELO RIOS: Well, I think here is much slower, so it's better for me. I'm having
tough matches. Winning tough matches, that give you a lot of confidence. I think maybe
here is a little bit better.

Q. Maybe with Sampras gone, who do you think is most dangerous, or is everybody kind of
even out there?

MARCELO RIOS: I think quarters, everybody is playing good. I think everyone's tough to
beat. I think everybody's the same.

Q. Everybody talks about the Open as being completely different from all the other
Slams in terms of atmosphere. Do you enjoy playing here in New York? Do you like the
atmosphere here?

MARCELO RIOS: Yeah. I think they have improved a lot, this tournament. Not walking like
last year, have to walk to every court, really far, lockers was on one side. So I think
this year is much better, is all like together. That make it like a better tournament, you
play much better. 

Q. You've had a reputation in the past of someone who maybe goes for too much on shots.
Are you changing that? Are you starting to hold back and play the points a little more
cautiously?

MARCELO RIOS: Maybe I'm not risking that much and trying to go too much for my shots,
making a lot of unforced errors. Maybe I'm try to know when I can hit it and when I can't,
so try to be more like not rush too much every point.

Q. When is the last time, in your opinion, that you played a match like that, that was
that concentrated the whole way through?

MARCELO RIOS: I think I play all the week concentrated, even if I win in five sets.
Playing with Carlsen was a real tough match. I try to be concentrated all the match, even
if I'm losing. I think that bring you a lot of satisfaction every match you win.

Q. But you don't think you played another match this season that was that same level
for three sets?

MARCELO RIOS: I've been playing so many matches.

Q. Usually when you walk on the court, you're the fastest person out there. When you
play Chang, you have a guy who is probably as fast or maybe even a little faster than you.
Does that make it very mentally tough for you to be able to overcome him? 

MARCELO RIOS: I think Chang is a very fast guy, but he doesn't -- like he let you play,
you can play against him. He's not the kind of guy that he serve and volley and you have
no chance to get the ball. But I think he's really tough, tough guy to win the point.

Q. Do you feel mentally stronger now than you ever have at any time in your career?

MARCELO RIOS: I think I'm getting older, more concentrated in the matches. I've been
improving all my mental game on the court.

Q. How long have you been with Larry?

MARCELO RIOS: I've been with Larry like a year, nine months.

Q. And has he had an effect? You say there's this maturity.

MARCELO RIOS: Yeah. I think coach can help you a lot. I think it's necessary to have a
coach to go in every tournament. I think he's a good guy.

Q. Marcelo, do you think you could have been as good a soccer or football player as you
are a tennis player?

MARCELO RIOS: Yeah. I think I would have been better in soccer.

Q. Why is that?

MARCELO RIOS: I don't know. I like a lot soccer, like all South Americans. Soccer is
the biggest sport in South America. I don't know why I'm playing tennis (laughter).

Q. Why did you change?

MARCELO RIOS: Well, I never play soccer like professional-like. I was only play in
school, play with my friends. Nothing like I want to be a soccer player.

Q. But if you had your choice, you'd be playing professional soccer?

MARCELO RIOS: Well, if you tell me right now, I prefer to play tennis.

Q. How is your leg? Did it bother you?

MARCELO RIOS: (Showing leg.)

Q. I know it's there. If you have a five-set match, do you think it will bother you?

MARCELO RIOS: I've been playing two five-set matches. Feel a little bit like not very
strong. I have tomorrow day off, going to try to treat it like I've been doing the last
days. Try to improve it.

Q. Can you win the US Open?

MARCELO RIOS: I think, like I said, everybody have the chances. In the quarters,
everybody playing good. We all have good chances.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT