US OPEN
August 31, 1997
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. In the beginning of the fifth set, was it kind of who breaks first will win the
match? 
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Who break first? What do you mean? 
 
Q. Nick Bollettieri later on said that because both of you seem to be physically a
little bit down, he said, "The first break will decide the match in the fifth
set."
 
 MARCELO RIOS: That's what Nick say? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Everybody have different opinion. I felt really good physically, never
cramped during the match. I was feeling a little bit tired. My right leg I have an injury.
My how you call it? How can I say? I've been with an injury for the two last matches. I
think it was because of that, but I didn't feel that tired. I think played a pretty fast
match, three hours, five sets. 
 
Q. How well are you playing right now?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I think I'm playing pretty good. I've been serving better, coming in a
bit more. I've been feeling really good from baseline. I think I've been playing my game. 
 
Q. Can you just win from the baseline here or are you going to have to change your game
a little bit?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Well, I think I'm a baseline player, but I'm trying to come in the short
balls, trying to win quickly the points. But I think I'm playing my game and I'm happy
when I'm doing it. 
 
Q. Marcelo, is it hard for you to sustain your concentration set by set? You played a
lot of five-setters this year?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Well, I've been doing it pretty good. I've been playing five sets and
winning two matches in a row. I think I'm concentrate a lot. I'm not going like rushing
too much every point. I think I'm concentrated really good. 
 
Q. What's your opinion about Tommy Haas?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I think he's a great player. I think he maybe has to improve a little bit
physically. Strong player; tough to beat. 
 
Q. What kind of chances do you give yourself here? I mean, as you say, you're a
baseline player, maybe people don't think of you as a hardcourt player.
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I think everybody have the same chance. Everybody playing good have the
same chance.  
 
Q. You think you can win here?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I think I can win. 
 
Q. Are you particularly comfortable on the surface? I know you've had a lot of success
on clay, but do you like the surface a lot?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Like every South American, we were born on clay, but I think I play much
better on hardcourt, feeling much better on hardcourt. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT