US OPEN
August 29, 1997
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Marcelo, what do you think about the performance today? 
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I think he play really good. I start playing really good first set until
2-Love. He have a great serve. He serve good all the match. Made like 30 aces. He's a
great player, good volleys. I think I play really good the last set, that's why I won. 
 
Q. You weren't surprised you had to go five sets against him?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Well, I knew he was going to be tough. He beat me on grass two months
ago. He's a great serve and volleyer. I knew if I want to beat him, I have to play five
sets. 
 
Q. Looked like you didn't care in the second set, actually you almost quit the game. Is
that right?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I never quit the game. 
 
Q. Actually, no, you didn't. You looked like it. Do you have a problem with your
attitude sometimes when you get bored?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: No. I'm trying not to get bored when I play. Try to enjoy every point in
every match. If I look like that, sorry. 
 
Q. Is there a point in that match where you were worried about the outcome or were you
confident you'd pull it out in the end? Was there a point where you were worried you might
lose it?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I was two sets to one down, he was playing good, holding serve, until I
broke him 1-All. But I never thought I was going to lose. I was playing really good. I
thought it was only one break, I could come back. 
 
Q. And how is your ankle? You were receiving treatment.
 
 MARCELO RIOS: Well, that hurts a little bit from the other days. I have to treat my
ankle, try to be better for the other match. 
 
Q. Do you think that will be a factor as you move further into the tournament?
 
 MARCELO RIOS: No. I don't think so. I think at the beginning it hurt, it hurt
yesterday. I hope I'm going to be better for Sunday. 
 
Q. Would you like more to play matches best of five? Do you think it's more difficult
to beat you in five sets? 
 
 MARCELO RIOS: I love to play five sets, play the fifth set. I think I like tough
matches, more playing a tiebreak in the fifth set. I think it's just great when you win. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT