MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 26, 1997
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. How happy are you for this win, to be in a Final at such an important tournament? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think I'm really happy. I've been playing each day better, much better.  After beating Costa, I think it was a great match.  Today beating Moya, also Larsson, I think I've been playing great matches.  I'm very happy. 
 

Q. You never gave a breakpoint to him.  When was the most difficult moment, 4-2 in the tiebreaker?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think I served pretty good the whole match.  I didn't face one breakpoint.  I have some breakpoints at 3-All in the second set.  He didn't get it.  After that, the 4-2 down, he miss a volley.  I never felt like I was going to lose the match.  I felt pretty confident; thought I was playing pretty good, so, I feel pretty good. 
 

Q. Was it some kind of a shock for you when the referee didn't give the match ball? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  He has been 20 years on the Tour.  I think he can't overrule that ball.  It was totally out. That's tennis, that's the referees, that's their job. That's okay, I won, so I don't care. 
 

Q. Have you the feeling that your opponents are kind of afraid of you because --
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Who is afraid of me? 
 

Q. Opponents.
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I don't know why they're going to be afraid.  I think everybody's play here, everybody play good.  I never feel afraid of somebody.  I don't know why they would feel afraid of me. 
 

Q. Can you tell us, how do you intend to play against Corretja?  How do you judge his game?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think he's one of the ten Spaniards, they all play the same; going to play from the baseline.  They hit pretty heavy, the ball.  I think I will play like I play Alberto Costa, or Moya - try to come in. Don't get many free points because they don't miss.  I think the key is not to give them any free points. 
 

Q. To play best of five you think is an advantage or handicap against a player like Corretja?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think both play the same matches.  Play one more match than me this week.  For both the same, play a lot of matches.  I think both are a little  bit tired.  I think we have the same chances. 
 

Q. Looking forward not just to tomorrow, but the French Open, do you think you're better equipped to go five sets now than maybe you were this time last year?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think before you tell me you're going to play five sets, get to the final, be prepared to do it.  Like the Grand Slam, you play every match five sets, so that's the way it is and you have to be prepared.  I feel prepared. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT