MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 24, 1997
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Are you satisfied with your match today? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think I played pretty good; better than yesterday.  Playing with Alberto, you have to play very good.  He's a clay specialist.  He has a lot of confidence winning.  I think I had to play a very good match. 
 

Q. Marcelo, I think it was claycourt tennis at its best, especially for me.  Do you have anything you think you have to improve?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think maybe my concentration.  Sometimes I go out of it.  Maybe come a little bit more to the net.  I've been having pretty good shots.  Sometimes I don't come in.  Try to come in a little more. 
 

Q. What was the key to your success today, do you think?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think I knew from playing baseline, it's going to be a tough match.  He's a very consistent player, doesn't miss a lot.  Have to play him  some angles and try to come in. 
 

Q. Seemed to be in good shape.  Do you feel well here in Monte-Carlo, especially here?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah.  I played for third time; always pretty good.  The courts are really nice.  The atmosphere is good for playing tennis.  I like it. 
 

Q. Do you concentrate more on climbing up the rankings or playing Grand Slam tournaments and winning Grand Slam tournaments?  What's more important for you?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think both are really important. Just try to do it in a Grand Slam. 
 

Q. At the hotel bar, we see you playing dominoes in the evening.  Is that a special way of concentrating?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I've not been going to the casino and losing money.  That's why I'm playing dominoes more. 
 

Q. You're going to play Larsson now in the next round.  What do you think about him?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Have a pretty good serve, forehand. He's a very smart player.  I can say I've played him a lot of times, four times, we're 2-All.  Every time we play a tough match.  Going to be a good match and tough also. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT