NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 29, 2002
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Marcelo.  
 
 
Q.  Tell us about the injury.
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I been having tendinitis since two months ago.  It's going really bad.  Since before the week, I've been struggling a lot with my knee, and, well, yesterday was pretty bad.  Been icing it a lot and doing some treatment, but it's tough when I push.  When I walk, it doesn't -- I don't feel anything.  But more when I serve than when I'm running around. 
 
Q.  Were you afraid coming in to the match that you wouldn't be able to make it through it?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I was afraid yesterday I couldn't make it today.  But I try.  And, well, I couldn't go anymore.  
 
Q.  You were afraid yesterday you might not be able to play at all?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I was afraid all the week.  I've been having this since, like I said, two months ago.  It's been every day a little bit worse.  I've been treating it, but I think I got to stop because if not it's going to get worse.   
 
Q.  If you had won in two sets, probably you could have not played the final? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think if I wasn't injured, there's no way he can beat me.  I miss all the balls and every time he move me around, I miss.  I think I was playing much better than him.   But, well, that's the way it goes and I'll try to get better and try to play him again.  
 
Q.  So what you're saying is it was really handicapping you throughout the two sets when he was moving you around?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, it's tough to play with tendinitis.  Every time he move me around I went for a winner.  Even though it was going my way, it's tough to move around.  And obviously it was a tough match.  Even if I go to a third set, maybe will be worse for my knee or not.  
 
Q.  What did the doctors say? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I'm gonna do when I arrive on Sunday, I'm going to Canada and I'm going to do it there and I'll see what's happen.  
 
Q.  How frustrating is it to get your career kind of going and then it always seems like there's some kind of injury? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, it's pretty disappointing.  That's the way it goes, I think.  For my body, like I said, my game is not about serving and just winning matches with my serve.  I got to fight every point, and I'd been running more than all these guys.  Like Sampras, he just serve and that's it.  I think it's much tougher for the guys that run around.  I'm paying for all those years that I've been playing. 
 
Q.  Were you thinking during the second set that you wouldn't go if it went to a third? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I was trying to hang around from the first set when I was 4-all.  I couldn't push anymore, but I said, "I'm gonna try this set."  And I try to win it.  Once you win it, you like to go on and see what's going on.  Obviously, there's a point when you can't continue.  
 
Q.  Do you think that it can be much better on clay because it's a softer surface? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I don't think it's about surface.  It's about running around, and I'm playing more.  And every time I'm jumping or pushing for my serve, it's gonna hurt even though if it's clay or hardcourt.  I'm gonna see a doctor on Monday and see what I do.  
 
Q.  Four years ago you won this tournament and became No. 1.  Did you feel you were approaching that form again? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think I'm far away from the game I used to play.  After my injuries, my groin injury, I haven't recovered at all.  And it's been pretty tough to move around.  And once you can't move, you can't do your game.  So I think I'm far away.  
 
Q.  What do you need to do to achieve that level?  Is it heal mostly?  What do you feel you need to accomplish? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, about my groin, I've been with that almost four years.  It's been tough to, like I say, to recover.  Once I'm feeling good, my knees start hurting.  I think once your body is not balanced, you start having injuries from all over your body.  And that's what been happening to me since like three years ago.  
 
Q.  Do you feel bad for the fans at all?  They get into the match, it's about to go to a third set, then you have to leave the stadium.  I know there's hurting, there's nothing you can do. 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  For sure, I think it's tough to understand if you're in the crowd and you come to see a match and sometimes suddenly somebody retires.  It's not a good show.  But I think it's a lot of people understand that sometimes you can't play.  I did my best trying to finish the match, but I could not do it.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT