EUTELSAT MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 25, 1996
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Marcelo, in the three first service games on Becker's serves, you couldn't return.  You could hardly hit a ball.  Afterwards, you could return it easily.  Did you change something?  Was it something special?

MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I knew that Becker was going to serve big.  He serves very good.  I couldn't return.  I knew if I continued like trying to do it, I think I have like 30 or 40, something like that.  I have confidence for breaking one time.  I think the match was breaking one game.


Q. What about the conditions of playing, the weather, the court, everything?  It was not easy.

MARCELO RIOS:  It was pretty tough playing in center court.  The balls were heavy.  I think the court maybe has some bad bounce.  I think it was for both the same, so....


Q. You said on the court after the match that you started tennis on clay, but you are a better player now on the hard courts.  Why?  Because you like when the game is faster? 

MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, I think South American players we're born on clay.  I started playing on clay all the tournaments.  I haven't played clay from last year, so I've been playing indoors and hard court.  I think I like maybe a little more hard court.


Q. How did get you to play tennis?  How did it happen that you began to play?

MARCELO RIOS:  I live, like, in a country club.  I have, like, the courts in front of me.  I also have some friends that start playing.  I think that's why I started playing.  I don't remember.


Q. Because your father says that you are not from a tennis family; he says only your mother is a tennis player.

MARCELO RIOS:  Nobody played tennis before.


Q. What about television and tennis in your country? How much is shown?  Do they show Wimbledon and US Open live on television?  How much is there?

MARCELO RIOS:  Maybe they show some highlights sometimes, but they don't give like the big tournaments until -- maybe they give some, but I haven't seen like the whole Wimbledon showing TV during the week.


Q. For example, if you got to the semifinals and final of Roland Garros, things might change?

MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, sure.  They have showed some matches of me playing some tournaments, but they don't give  like a whole tournament.


Q. In view of Boris' frustrations on clay, he's tried all his career to win a claycourt event.  He's been a finalist here three times.  Did you think because of his background on clay that you would have a good chance today or was it just that you felt confident in yourself?

MARCELO RIOS:  I knew playing Boris from the baseline, I'd have a lot of chances.  I tried not to come in a lot.  Every time he came in, I tried to pass him; I did pretty good.  I thought at the beginning of the match that Boris stay on the baseline, I have more chance.


Q. Do you feel being a left-hander that you have more chances against right-handed players?

MARCELO RIOS:  I don't know.  I can't tell you that.  Maybe.  Maybe, but I don't know.  I think we have the same chance.


Q. Do you set yourself goals?  Looks like now you could well be a top 10 player.  Is that a goal you set for yourself by a certain time?  Does that mean something to you?

MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, sure.  I think every player wants to break top 10 and will also try to be the best player in the world.  Break top 10; then be top five; then be top three.  I try right now to break top 10.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT