EUTELSAT MONTE CARLO OPEN
April 24, 1996
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Marcelo, you're making a lot of progress this year, and everything seems to go well.  What do you expect about this match against Becker?  It's a big opportunity or what?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, sure.  I know Becker did fine last year.  Playing Becker in center court here, I like it, I think it's going to be a very nice match.  Really I know Becker have a big serve, he's going to try to come in.  I feel good, been playing good last week and this week.  I think I have a chance to win. 
 

Q. A few matches have passed since you played Sampras on center court in Roland Garros.  Now you're a much better player.  With Becker, you just go there thinking that you have more than 50 percent chances to win or the same or less?  Who is the favorite?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think in tennis, they both are playing -- they have the same chances.  I think tennis is so competitive that he can win or I can win, so I think both have the same chances. 
 

Q. You're not playing the Olympics, is that correct? 
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah. 
 

Q. And just because you have to defend points that you won in Amsterdam last year?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I have a tournament the same week as the Olympic games. 
 

Q. Is more important for you?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, I think it's -- I would like to represent my country, play for my country, but I think there's certain times that you can't do it, and this is one of the times.  I have to play a tournament rather than going to the Olympic games. 
 

Q. What do you know about the older Chilean tennis, a player like Ayala, Taverne, Balbirs, Fillil, Cornejo who played the final against Italy in 1976?  What do you know about the history of Chilean tennis?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Not much that I know.  I was born in '75, and I didn't play tennis.  I haven't seen them play, never saw them.  I don't know how the tennis was before or how did they play.  I never saw nothing. 
 

Q. But how much they were popular in the sporting world of Chili.
 
MARCELO RIOS:  When they played? 
 

Q. No.  Reflect it today, report it to today.  They go on TV today, would people know them or not?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think they know them.  I think in  their time they were maybe people that, how you say, guys that people know, but today I think some of the people may know them. 
 

Q. But today they came to watch you, to speak with you or not?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah. 
 

Q. Who, Fillol?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah.  I know Fillol.  I don't know him like good, we are not friends, but I know him because he was a tennis player.  I played his tournament one time. That's why I know him. 
 

Q. Which are the most popular athletes and sportsmen in Chili right now, I mean all sports?  Are you the top or there is a soccer player?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  There's not -- 
 

Q. Three, five names?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think maybe me and San Morano, soccer player. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT