NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 15, 1996
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 JOE LYNCH:  First question for Marcelo Rios who has moved to
approximately number 15 on Monday's ATP Tour rankings which again
would be a new career high from his current career 20.  First
question.

 Q.  Are you a little bit angered because you missed a lot
of chances?  You dominated a lot of the rallies and in the end
you just missed it.

 MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, I think I dominated the match. There was
only one point that I have set point in the tiebreak, also served
at 6-5 and I think I played a bad game, but I think Michael is
a tough guy and you can't give up those points because if you
do, you lose the match.

 Q.  Can you comment on Michael Chang when he overruled the
referee to your advantage in the first set?

 MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, I think the referee, he was sleeping, he
was like all over the match, I don't know what he was doing. 
I think it is not first time he do it.  And I think Michael is
a nice guy and he is going to give you that ball, and I think
it was a good play. 

 Q.  Was it the ball hitting the racket of Chang?

 MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, I think, yes.

 Q.  What would you take away from today's match as far as
what you might learn from it?

 MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think I am playing that level that makes
me happy.  I think I am playing the same as Michael.  I think
maybe a little bit of bad luck, but I am happy that I made the
semis.  I played really good and I am very happy.

 Q.  In the second set, did he begin to play better, or did
you just begin to have more problems?

 MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think I concentrate a little bit.  I was
thinking about the set point and I couldn't hang until 3-All;
then I think he made that break and I just concentrated and I
didn't come back.

 Q.  How do you feel being No. 15 in the world?  Is it a surprise
for you?  Was it something you were expecting?

 MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I have been playing very good.  I have been
only two years on the Tour and I think I have been playing very
good, so it is something I am expecting to go higher, but I didn't
expect to be 15 this week, but I have been playing pretty good
and I deserve.

 Q.  The last two service games of the match you tried the
drop shot each time; maybe at moments when you wouldn't expect
to try a shot that difficult.  Do you think about that as being
 maybe not a very good percentage --

 MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, sure, I think I made a lot of mistakes making
drop-shots.  I didn't have confidence, so I think it was a bad
play.

 Q.  Is that something would you change then if you get your
--

 MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I think drop-shots are part of the game.
 What happened if I couldn't make it, so you make it would be
a good try, but I think I didn't have that shot today and that
was --

 Q.  Do you like trying risky shots at big points?

 MARCELO RIOS:  Well, it is not that.  I think all players try
not to take risky points on important points, but I don't know
what it was.

 Q.  Speak about your relationship with the other guys on the
Tour, you got up very fast.  Do you see any difference in them
treating you now with more respect, maybe?

 MARCELO RIOS:  I don't know.  I see all players the same.  I
don't have respect for any players - I respect them, but I see
one is one, one is 100 and I see them the same.  I don't have
respect because one is No. 1 or No. 20.  I think you have to have
the same respect for all.

 Q.  Do they start respecting you more?

 MARCELO RIOS:  I don't know.  Ask them.  I don't know if they
respect me. 

 End of FastScripts........         


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT