U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1994
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Have you enjoyed your Open? 

MARCELO RIOS: Well, it was not too bad. 

Q. Except for tonight? 

MARCELO RIOS: Yes, coming from the quali, and, well, I won one good round to Palmer,
but I think was two days without playing, I think did me a little bit like not being in
good shape. But I think for playing Wayne Ferreira is a good player, you have to be in
great shape to beat him. 

Q. Played great. 

MARCELO RIOS: Well, one more match, my first year ATP and, I don't know, it's
experience. I can't win all the match, and I have to respect that and not always I win. 

Q. You beat one of the best players, one of the rising stars, Jared Palmer, that was
amazing. 

MARCELO RIOS: Yes, that's why I can't win all matches. Hardcourt, he's a very good
hardcourt. Well, one day I play good and I win. Another day I play, I can't win all day. 

Q. When will you be on the tour full-time? 

MARCELO RIOS: I started four months ago playing ATP and I will play all the next year
on ATP and try to do my best. 

Q. What experiences did you learn here in this? 

MARCELO RIOS: Well, each ATP tournament I have more experience, and well, to play top
guys, you have to be in great shape and not to give any points. I think this is like the
world. You have to be 100 percent to win. 

Q. What are your main goals for next season, let's say? 

MARCELO RIOS: Well, now, I think I want to play on clay. Go to Europe and try to get
into the top 100 until the end of the year. 

Q. Sometimes you are called like, I guess, Agassi from Chile; do you like it? 

MARCELO RIOS: Yeah, I don't know why they call me like that. I haven't realized why,
but I don't know, I always say that I like him the way he play, that he is but I don't
know. 

Q. Can you describe level of popularity in your home country? 

MARCELO RIOS: What? 

Q. Can you describe your level of popularity in your own country? 

MARCELO RIOS: You know in Chile, there are, but there are not many, like, good-- how
you say, people that practice sports, so when one come out, I think all people want to be
with him. So I think that people know me, I'm not really famous, but I think that 18 years
old and doing like I'm doing, I think people know. 

Q. What is most difficult for you nowadays? 

MARCELO RIOS: Nowadays. I think all that happened too quickly. Four months, I think
110. I haven't realize the what is happening. But, I don't know, I have take it very good
and try to play my best and one day I don't do it good, I have to -- how you say, to feel
good about it. 

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT