TMS - HAMBURG
May 14, 2001
Marcelo Rios
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ATP:  Questions in English to start with for Marcelo then we will switch to Spanish. 
 
 
Q.  Tough player to draw in the first round?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, for sure.  He is one of the top players on clay and we are not seeded so that is the chance to play against each other and well, I think it was a good match.  I played pretty good and I am happy to win a match like that. 
 
Q.  What do you think you did today that was particularly good?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I think I hit good my crosscourt backhand.  Every time he played two-hand backhand I went cross and he start like missing too much on that side.  I think he was not getting good to the ball.  Once I moved him to that side I have all the other side of the court to play good. 
 
Q.  You seemed very well concentrated and relaxed to today.  Have you totally put last week behind you and forgotten about that?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Well, I would say like you have got to look forward.  It was a bad situation, things that we could avoid, but that is the way it went and well, just looking forward to try to play good tennis and try to forget about what happened. 
 
Q.  What do you feel your realistic chances are going into the French?   How do you feel you are playing?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  I feel I am playing good but I am not winning.  I am hitting pretty good the ball and I am running around good.  I think I need these two weeks, this and next to win a couple of matches, some good matches to give me the confidence to get ready to start. 
 
Q.  You feel the way you are playing, the standard you are playing, you feel it is just a question of time before it all comes together?
 
MARCELO RIOS:  Yeah, like today I could (inaudible) lose down 4-3  and I use the match -- that start pushing you down, the confidence.  I won this match.  I think this match is -- like this build you up the confidence and make you think different when you go onto court and know that you can do it. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT