BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS SWITZERLAND
April 20, 2019
Viktorija Golubic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. GOLUBIC/M. Keys   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Your captain billed this match as power with Keys versus versatility with you.  Do you think that was how it went?  What made the difference for you in the match, playing longer points?  
VIKTORIJA GOLUBIC: Well, I didn't feel like we were having so long rallies because, I mean, her shots are really powerful.  I knew that also I have to, like, take the ball early and go for my shots, although I had to mix it a lot.   
Well, obviously the mix of being solid, still putting lots of balls in.  I knew I'm fast and I can get to her balls.  But still I had to stay really aggressive, too.  If you not do enough, she's overpowering you, yeah.   
 Q.  There were six deuce games in the match.  You won five.  Anything in particular that worked for you in those big points?  
VIKTORIJA GOLUBIC: Yeah, that was really amazing.  I could feel at the beginning, it's so important, we have long games, and I kind of just really tried to be there for every point because I knew if I win those, it really means a lot for the match.   
Then when it kept going on like this, I was just like, Okay, I won the previous ones.  So it kind of gave me confidence.  Yeah, it was kind of important to win the beginning one.   
 Q.  This is proof that in Fed Cup anything can happen.  Certainly rankings don't always mean that much.  Talk about that.  
VIKTORIJA GOLUBIC: Well, I think it would have been -- like if it's a tournament, also anything can happen.  I think I can beat her anywhere.   
But obviously, I mean, this is a different event.  You cannot compare it to anything else.  We just have a really great team.  I think this also, like, gives me lot of boost during the match.   
 Q.  Obviously the crowd was on her side, but the crowd was pretty rambunctious and everything.  Does that help you, regardless of where they were leaning?  
VIKTORIJA GOLUBIC: Yeah, I could kind of feel they were really fair, so that was nice.  It was great, like, that they were loud.  I hope they even get louder and cheer a lot.  It just gives a good atmosphere.  We all like it, so it was cool.   
 Q.  A little bit about how important was it that you came out, broke her in the first game of the match?  How important was that for momentum?  
VIKTORIJA GOLUBIC: Yeah, I think really important because, I mean, she can serve really, really big.  Although, I don't know, on that court, on that surface, if her kick maybe doesn't bounce that high.  I could feel when I kind of can read it a little bit, I can get into the rally, which helps a lot when you play against her.   
But still, you have to be really focused on your serve because she serves big.  So every break is, like, a big thing.  Well, because it happened at the beginning, I was kind of always leading in the first set which, yeah, was somehow a little easier.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT