BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS SWITZERLAND
April 19, 2019
Captain Heinz Guenthardt
Viktorija Golubic
Timea Bacsinszky
Conny Perrin
Yiena In-Albon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Heinz, talk a little bit about the draw and the dynamics here.  
HEINZ GUENTHARDT: Obviously, there are no surprises who was nominated on both sides.  I thought that was quite an obvious one.   
When it comes to who is the favorite, it's also quite obvious when you look at the rankings.  But luckily the rankings only reflect how you played over 12 months, not how you're going to play in the future, and specifically this Saturday/Sunday.  That's the great thing about tennis, we start at scratch.   
I think we prepared well.  We certainly have, with the players we have, a shot against anyone.  Of course, I think Saturday will be extremely important because the American team is the favorite, means we'll be under pressure.  If we are able to (indiscernible) it, I think we're in with a shot.   
 Q.  Timea, you've played Fed Cup for 14 years, which is more than any other Swiss player has.  Talk about your dedication to playing.  
TIMEA BACSINSZKY: Well, representing your country, like we already do worldwide all the time we play, but we're, like, singles players, most of us.  To be in a team, I always liked the team spirit.  I always liked to play for other people, as well.  I like everything what the team actually needs, what is it to make a team.   
I've been introduced to that at a very young age.  I was, like, a team leader with 15.  So probably I did not know what I was doing.  Just trying to win points for Switzerland.  I always felt very welcome in the team.   
You know, in 14 years, I must say the last four years has been the best.  I think we really found a good way to function with each other, and to welcome as well new players.  I think it just had been, like, amazing overall, those 14 years.   
Really now it keeps me wanting to stay and to try to play as much as I can and to, as well, deliver with the tennis matches for the team.   
 Q.  Viktorija, can you talk a little bit about being the No. 1 player on the team, the responsibility of that.  
VIKTORIJA GOLUBIC: I don't think it really makes a big difference, like what number in the team you have.  It's important to, like, have the good spirit.  Like, really everyone has to be ready because you never know what's happening during the weekend.  We all try to prepare as best as we can.   
I've had different numbers in the team.  Kind of always felt really similar.  It's just the moment you step on the court, you try to get that point, try to give your best.  Yeah, that's it.   
 Q.  Viktorija, you'll be opening up against Madison.  What do you make of that match, a chance to put your team up?  
VIKTORIJA GOLUBIC: Yeah, I'm really excited to, yeah, get the chance to step on court Saturday.  I'll just try everything possible to get this point.  I think we've been in a good mood all week.  So yeah, we just excited.   
 Q.  Yiena and Conny, this is your first week.  How has it been so far?  
CONNY PERRIN: I think, first of all, we've been integrating in the team really, really well.  It's been fluid since the beginning.  Also thanks to them for that.   
Also, of course, we had to give the speech.  Of course, we were a bit nervous because it's our first time.  But I think it's in a good way.  I think we did pretty well (laughter).   
Also we have the support of the team.  We are around good people.  Of course, it helps a lot also.   
YIENA IN-ALBON: Yeah, I mean, it's a great pleasure to be in this team with these girls, the captain.  They have so much experience.  As the baby of the team, I feel like I can learn so much.  I really hope I can also bring some positive things to them and to all the team, yeah.   
 Q.  Have you had any chance to look around San Antonio, and your thoughts?  
HEINZ GUENTHARDT: Well, our hotel is right next to the river.  So, yes, we have wandered around.  Maybe we actually will take one of those tours.   
It's an interesting city.  I did not know it was as large as this.  Around the hotel, there's almost a bit of a European feel.  It's not quite Venice, but quite interesting and very nice.  We have to say we feel very much at home here.   
 Q.  Should we expect you to yodel for any matches?  
HEINZ GUENTHARDT: If we do well, I'll gladly yodel.  I'm not very skilled at it.  You will probably remark that afterwards, after I try.  But it would be my pleasure.   
 Q.  Would you like to give us a sample?  
HEINZ GUENTHARDT: Not yet (laughter).   
 Q.  Heinz, how do you assess the day-one matchups against Madison and Sloane?  
HEINZ GUENTHARDT: Well, I think the first match especially is a classic:  tall girl with a lot of power versus quick girl with a lot of variety.  Therefore, we're going to try to have a match that's not based on power but on variation, different looks, so to speak.   
Luckily that's exactly how Viki likes to play.  That's not something she has to adapt to, that's her natural game.  I think the surface, as well, lends itself to a bit of variation because the bounces are quite interesting:  slice stays low, a kick goes high.   
We'll see if we are able to play our way more than Madison's way, which is pretty much game based on three, four shots.  Of course, she's done extremely well.  That's because the first three, four shots are extremely powerful and very precise.   
I think both teams, we exactly know which way we don't want to play.  We both have our own chances.  We'll see how it works.   
The second game is not as extreme, but it's a little bit the same.  Timea is the one that has more variety, while Sloane is a bit more straightforward, very good athlete.  There again, we probably just try to stick to our natural game and vary the game.  I think on this surface, that should work out pretty well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT