NCAA DIVISION I WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2007
Aaron Anspach
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Aaron, after a kind of tough day for Penn State, how does it feel to get the big win for the team? 
 AARON ANSPACH:  We had a tough loss.  It was pretty unexpected from him.  Coach told us we had to focus more on ourselves and take care of our own business and it would take care of the team, so that's kind of in my mind going into the last match. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 AARON ANSPACH: Yes, I did.  I had high aspirations since I've been at this college and I've fought injuries.  And going into this season, I had a good productive summer and I really felt I could be in the national finals coming into the end of the year. 

 Q.  (No microphone.)? 
 AARON ANSPACH: I really tried to block it out.  I mean, obviously I was rooting 100 percent for Phil Davis, but I had to worry about myself, like I said earlier.  This is an individual format, as well as a team format, and the better you do as an individual, the better your team will do. 

 Q.  Semi final match? 
 AARON ANSPACH: They were very contrasting styles.  He has good upper body,that he demonstrated throughout this tournament.  And the guy from Central Michigan, he obviously shoots, wrestles more like a lightweight, so two different minds going into both matches, but I'm aware of what they both did. 

 Q.  Are you going to wrestle Konrad again? 
 AARON ANSPACH: My last outing with Konrad didn't go quite as well as planned. I'm looking to have another shot at him.  Obviously he's proven he's the man, so it's going to be nice going in as the under dog and getting the upset. 

 Q.  Do you have to do something different against Cole this time or are you just going doing out and wrestle? 
 AARON ANSPACH: Obviously I'm not going to do what I did last time.  That didn't work too well.  I'm going to wrestle a smart match with him.  He's obviously a great wrestler, and I'm just going to try to give it my all. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT