WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 2, 2017
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Such a great start.  Tell me about the eagle at 14.  
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, it was a pretty wild day.  I think we had 199 adjusted to that back hole location, and we were trying to land it about 10 yards short.  Little outside right, and I pulled it just a touch.  It landed about one yard left and about four yards short and went in the hole.  We couldn't see it from where we were, but we knew by the reaction.   
 Q.  The turn at 6-under, did you start thinking of an exotic number?  Although I thought you handled yourself well.  
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, it was okay.  It was kind of an odd day.  There was a lot of stuff going on.  I hit a marshal in the head on 18, which was crazy.  I was worried.  He went down like a ton of bricks, so I was worried he was going to be really hurt.  Got up there, and he was totally fine, I guess.   
I was able to kind of shake that off, and then just got kind of a couple bad visuals on the next couple tee shots.  Still got away from a birdie on 1 after a bad tee shot.   
I don't know.  It was just kind of a strange day.  The back 9 was a little bit tougher and had to kind of grind through it.  But overall happy with where my game is.   
 Q.  The birdie on 8, your 17th hole, made the whole day a lot more pleasant?  
BRENDAN STEELE: It did, yeah, for sure.  I was kind of disappointed with where I was, as weird as that sounds, being near the top of the leaderboard, anyway, and to make about a 35-footer on 8 was really nice.  Made me feel a little bit better going in to dinner.   
 Q.  You've played well here before.  What is it about the golf course that you're able to shoot some low numbers?  
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, I think I normally putt pretty well here.  I really like the greens.  They're rolling perfect.  I seem to see them pretty well.   
I've just never had much trouble with the lines off the tees and things like everything just kind of makes sense to me, for whatever reason.  Certain weeks just make sense, and other weeks you just can't quite figure them out.  This has always been a very comfortable place.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT