BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2016
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The Stableford system, you can kind of get yourself right back in the hunt.  You did there with the eagle at the last.  Tell us about that.
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah.  I mean, it's always good to have an eagle anywhere in your round, but definitely nice to finish with one.  It's nice that they gave us a hole like 18 to finish on.  It really makes it exciting for the fans and fun for us.
I was really patient today.  I didn't really do too much wrong or right, I guess.  I made 14 pars, I think, to start before I finally got on the board.
So just tried to stay patient, and it was nice to get rewarded at the end.
Q. Yesterday you only had four pars.  Today you started out with 14 straight pars.  What was different out there today?
BRENDAN STEELE: Well, I think it just shows you how this game kind of evens itself out.  You're not going to have four pars in a round very often, and you're not going to start with 14 in a row very often either.  But over the 36, it kind of just evened out to be what it normally would be.
Q. Four top 25 finishes here, three top 10s.  What is it about this golf course you like so much?
BRENDAN STEELE: You know, I love the format.  I love the feel here.  I grew up in Southern California at a very similar elevation, so it feels very comfortable.  And I like the grass, being a West Coast guy.  So I think that's really good.  And then we seemed to adapt pretty well to the altitude as well, which is key out here.
Q. Seven straight made cuts, been playing great.  What do you feel like's been working well so recently?
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, I've been doing a lot of things well, but definitely my ball striking has been really good.  Probably the best of my career, consistently.  So kind of leaning on that.  Usually a pretty good driver of the ball, so leaning on that pretty hard.
But seemed to be getting better around the greens, better wedge play, trying to chip it and putt it better, as always.  But I think things are going pretty good.
Q. What's the key here heading into the weekend?  I know you've had some close calls here before.  What do you think it takes to get it done here this weekend?
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, I mean, you've got to be really aggressive on a tricky golf course.  When the wind starts going and the greens get firm, it can play pretty tough, as I saw this afternoon.  So you have to be aggressive and patient at the same time and kind of walk that fine line.
Q. A lot of guys have talked about how the wind swirls here in the afternoons and the po gets a little bumpy naturally.  Is it tougher playing in the kind of latter groups on Sundays and Saturdays here?
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, definitely.  It really is at any golf course.  It's always harder if you're playing late, you got the spotlight on you, you got a little tougher conditions usually, your greens get firmer, faster, a little bit more wind.  And that's just week in and week out.  That's what the leaders have to deal with.
So but here, yeah, it doesn't change.  It gets a little bumpier, a little trickier and a little firmer, so you've got to be playing that much better.
Q. I know you're already in the Open.  What would it mean to have a good week heading into there, especially with being off next week?
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, definitely want to carry some momentum and then kind of see what I need to work on next week.  It's obvious totally different style of golf and golf course.  So there's going to be some changes that I need to make.
But overall I just want to be swinging well and committing to my shots and rolling the ball on line.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT