BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2016
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brendan, a bit of an up-and-down day.  Birdied eight of the first 11 holes, then slipped it off the rails a little bit, got it back with a birdie at nine.  A few comments about the round?
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, obviously got off to a great start.  Was really cooking along there and then decided to take a nap on the backside.  And four bogeys in a row, which isn't good in any format, but is easier to take in this format.  You can get them back a little bit.
So kind of the classic Stableford round, if you will, because I think I only made four pars and ends up being a lot of points and probably in a better position than I would be in and if it was stroke play.
Q. This is a tournament you've had a lot of success in over the years.  What is it about this place, the format, the purified air, combination of everything?
BRENDAN STEELE: It's a combination of everything.  I'm really comfortable on the golf course.  I'm comfortable at this elevation, grew up exact same elevation, same kind of terrain, mountains, same pine trees, sage brushes, everything is just exactly the same with the same kind of weather this time of year, and so very comfortable as far as that goes.
And then I love the format.  I think it's so much fun.  Anytime you're not doing just four rounds of stroke play, the basic stuff, it's so much more fun, I think.  So I really enjoy that part of it and I think just anytime you're excited and you're smiling and excited to get out on to the tee, then you're probably going to play a little bit better.
Q. Just course conditions today.  Obviously set up fairly well for you?
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, the course is perfect.  It's always in good shape, but it's never been better, as far as I'm concerned.  The greens are rolling great.  Nice little firm, first bounce to them.  Rough's actually up a little bit.  If you get into the rough, you can get some tough lies, but overall it's just great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT