VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 23, 2016
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brendan, I really thought that round tested your patience and it was a huge birdie for you on 18.
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, definitely.  I've been really working hard on my patience, been trying to be more into every shot and look at it as each individual shot goes by rather than the whole day and having to press and kind of get back into the tournament.  So I was really happy with how I did it today.
Q. The driver got a little crooked at times.
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, definitely.  I didn't hit many fairways today.  That's normally kind of my trademark.  So I'll definitely look to put it in some better spots tomorrow.  Kind of right out of the gate it was bad 3-wood on 1 was bad and had to take an unplayable out of the cactus on 2.  Didn't let me ease out of the gate very well.
Q. You hit some tremendous drives.  The drive on 14, on 18, really good.
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, yeah, 14, 18, 9 was a good one.  Kind of 9 played totally different today which was nice.  Been like 5-iron in.  Today was gap wind.  Wind turned around on that.  Yeah, few good ones.  It can always be a little better.
Q. Your thoughts on playing in the final group with Ricky Barnes.
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah.  I mean it's a lot of fun.  I played with Ricky last week.  His game is looking really good right now.  I played with him quite a bit and so I'm looking forward to it.
Q. So am I.  Play well.
BRENDAN STEELE: Thanks.
Q. Added up to an even par round for Brendan Steele, but after finding a cactus on the par 5 2nd hole, you had to think this was a day when you didn't birdie until 14 that it might have gotten away from you and yet it didn't.  What's your feeling?
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah.  I mean I was really struggling.  I couldn't really hit a fairway.  I only found I think one of the first five greens.  I didn't get off to a very good start but I was able to hit enough good shots and enough good recovery shots to not make many mistakes and I was able to be patient enough and make a couple birdies at the end.
Q. Everyone talks about in 72 holes you may have a bad day.  This may be yours.  Is that your feeling, that you can get through that and put together a good round on Sunday?
BRENDAN STEELE: Hopefully I'm still really happy with where my game is.  Just a couple more loose shots today.  I really didn't hit any loose shots on Thursday.  I hit a few yesterday and a few more today and just didn't hole the 12 to 15 footers today which I've done the last couple of days.  Looking forward to making those tomorrow.
Q. What kind work will you focus on as you get ready for tomorrow?
BRENDAN STEELE: The same stuff I've been working on with my swing.  I'm just trying to be a little bit shorter with a little better rhythm and trying to just accelerate down my line a little more with my putting.  I'll grind on that a little bit tonight.
Q. See how that works on Sunday.
BRENDAN STEELE: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT