ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 17, 2016
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brendan, we talked earlier in the week about this course potentially playing difficult.  It certainly didn't look difficult for you today.
BRENDAN STEELE: We had beautiful conditions this morning.  Greens are rolling perfect.  I assume they're going to get firmer and faster throughout the week.  Probably going to see a little bit more wind.  It's nice to jump on it early when you get things going.
Q. At what point today did you kind of figure you had a low number in you, again, with this course playing and the conditions toughening up?  At what point did you feel that?
BRENDAN STEELE: I've been feeling really good about my game.  I've been adding pieces here and there and kind of waiting for it all to come together.  I was excited to start today.
Make kind of a sloppy bogey on the 4th hole but was able to stay patient.  I've been kind of fighting that lately and was able to just kind of turn it around and once I made the turn I birdied 9, 10 and 11 and then I kind of knew that I was going in the right direction.  So, yeah, I would say in the middle of the round I thought it was going to be a good one.
Q. Do you feel like this course fits your game well?
BRENDAN STEELE: Definitely.  I learned how to play here.  I haven't had the best results here.  They've gotten better over the last couple of years.
When I first got here I think it was a little intimidating for me.  I don't know I had all the shots that were required but I've kind of added those to my game over the last 6 years.  I think it fits me pretty well.
Q. Course conditions, how is everything?
BRENDAN STEELE: Never seen it better.  I don't know how you can make it better.  Greens are perfect, fairways are perfect, rough is up.  You get it in the rough you're in trouble.  That was one time I got stuck in the rough today I made bogey.  So, you have to hit good shots and hit good shots you get rewarded.  If you don't, you're in trouble.
Q. Playing for so much here with the 3 year exemption.  That's a big deal.
BRENDAN STEELE: Absolutely.  Every week on Tour is a big deal.  This is extra special.  You get the extra year exemption and obviously anytime one of legends of the game is attached to it it means a little bit more.  So, it's a very cool week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT