FRYS.COM OPEN
October 17, 2015
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Brendan, we've talked to you every say.  Good to have you back in here.
How do you assess today's rounds versus the first two?
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, I thought today was a lot more like it was the first day.  Struggled a little bit yesterday, especially towards the end, just to make some pars on the way in.
Today I felt like I played better than I scored and felt like my game was right where I wanted it to be.
THE MODERATOR: Go ahead and start with some questions.
Q. When you sat in here yesterday you said you didn't expect any more 63s or that many good scores.  When did you first have to slip that mindset today?
BRENDAN STEELE: Well, I mean, I was just trying to do the best that I could, so I couldn't really control what the other guys were doing.
That was a great round that Andrew shot.  I didn't see it actually.  I mean, the way it firmed up at the end yesterday and how firm it was today, you really had to be on your game in order to do that.
But I guess you never underestimate the talent level out here.  So I didn't really ever flip the mindset.  Just trying to do the best that I could.
Q. What will your game plan be tomorrow with so many people in contention and having an opportunity?
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, nothing changes.  I'm going to play the golf course exactly how I've played it.  Get as committed as I can to every shot and just make sure that I focus on what I can control.
Somebody goes out there and shoots 63, 64, you know, hopefully I can keep up with that.  But I won't be worried about what everybody else is doing.  Just handle what I can control and keep moving forward.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, well, I played here last year.  Had a decent finish.  I think 21st.  So I know it well enough.  I'm a California guy, so comfortable on the grass, comfortable in the climate.  Everything feels pretty comfortable.
I don't think so any more so than anybody else.  Maybe more than the Florida guys just because they practice on different grasses.
Q. I know you said you're not going to play it any differently, but how does Sunday feel different, especially when you have the lead?
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, it always feels different.  Any Sunday out here where you're in a good position you feel like every shot is so important, so you have to be careful not to make any shot more important than anything else.
You have to really just try to do the best you can.  I mean, all the super cliche phrases, one shot at time and stick to my process and all that stuff, but it's true.  They're cliches for a reason.
Sundays are always tough.  Fridays when you're hanging around the cut line and then Sundays when you're in the lead, those are the two toughest times.  That's when character kind of comes out.
Q. (No microphone.)
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, it's always good to be the guy who has won a lot.  Doesn't mean quite as much to you and you feel a little bit more comfortable.  You've got more good memories to draw on.
But as far as that goes, I mean, if I do the best that I can tomorrow, then that's all I can do.  I remember when I had a putt to win the Bolero Texas Open?  I had seven feet and I just said, You know what?  Hit it as solid as you can on the best line that you can and do not be afraid to give it a little speed.
I just didn't want it to be weak and around the hole, because you don't get those opportunities that often.  You just kind of have to grab 'em when you do get 'em.
Q. Is it at all frustrating the last three holes to come away with three pars the way they were set up?
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, definitely, especially because I thought I hit some really good shots and putts, and those were probably the first couple holes we didn't read that well this week.
So even hitting my lines couldn't get 'em to go in.  Misread it by like about a foot on 16, which is pretty far off.
17 I thought I hit a really good putt.
It happens.  It's not that frustrating.  Whether it's at the end or the start, you just have to deal with it.
THE MODERATOR: Another great round.  Thank you for joining us.
BRENDAN STEELE: All right.  Thanks, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT