BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2015
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Brendan, I take it you liked how things played out there today.   
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, definitely. For the most part felt like I played pretty well yesterday; just didn't score quite as many points.  
Ball kind of went into the hole today, so that was always nice.  
   
 Q. Talked to a couple guys and they were saying it was playing strange. Used to it maybe running out on greens; a little spongy.   
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, definitely it's a lot more (indiscernible) this year. Course is in great shape. A lot of the time I see it a little more brown, a little firmer, and so it's playing a little bit different. Ball doesn't go quite as far because you're not running out as much.  
Really playing nice.  
   
 Q. 26. You look at the conditions coming into the weekend. You got a score in mind? 49, 50‑ish?   
BRENDAN STEELE: No idea. I mean, just need to make a lot of birdies and all based on weather conditions.   
So, no, just try to keep doing what I'm doing.  
   
 Q. Take us through your round.  
BRENDAN STEELE: Seven birdies, an eagle, and a bogey.  
   
 Q. Eagle where?  
BRENDAN STEELE: No. 2.  
   
 Q. What did you hit?   
BRENDAN STEELE: Driver, 4‑iron into the front bunker and holed the bunker shot.  
   
 Q. How was your mindset coming into today? Feel like you could do this well?   
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, I definitely did. I felt like I've been playing really well, been working really hard on my pre‑shot routine and making sure that I get into every shot whether things are going good or bad.  
That's an area that I can really improve on, so that's kind of the goal. Then you just kind of let the rest of it come to you.   
I felt like I played really well yesterday. Could have holed a couple more putts. Did that today, so got a lot more points.  
   
 Q. Got to feel confident going into tomorrow now.  
BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, definitely. It's golf so you never know what's going to happen, but I feel like my game is in a really good spot.   
I was happy with how I played last week until Sunday. Basically just didn't hole anything on Sunday last week.  
But the game has been really good for a while.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT