ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 4, 2015
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This has been three good, productive days, hasn't it, and now you find yourself in good position?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Fantastic.   I played really solid and been awesome from tee‑to‑green, especially today, which you really need on a course like this, very tough, very demanding.   There's no real breaks out there.   Every hole you have to pay attention and you have to hit good shots.   
   
 Q.   Tough and demanding and yet slightly easier today after the watering of the greens?   
BRENDAN STEELE:   Yeah, slightly easier, greens a little softer.   Didn't really have any wind today and I was lucky enough to hit a lot of fairways and a lot of greens, so have a lot of opportunities.  
   
 Q.   I take it you have a great appreciation of this course with the form here in recent years.   
BRENDAN STEELE:   I love it over here.   This is always a treat for me.   I try to get off to a good start in the States so I can make sure to make this trip.   This is my third time now, and try to make it an every‑year thing.  
   
 Q.   What do you tell the people at home; they should be coming, as well, particularly with The Ryder Cup in the future here?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Absolutely.   It's good Ryder Cup prep for me, and good Ryder Cup prep for all the Americans; just to get over here and see it.   And it's just a fun week.   I love the French culture.   The people out here have been fantastic, very warm, encouraging, and it's just great for me all around.   
   
 Q.   You used the word treat.   Expand on that?   What have you been doing?   Have you enjoyed things away from the course?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Well, my wife's been really taking more advantage of it than I have because I've been out here working most of the time.   But we've had many walks around Versailles and gone out to get breakfast and just enjoy the culture and see what's around here.   
We're going to stay a few extra days and stay in Paris and do the tourist thing and sightsee a little bit.   I'm really looking forward to that.   I haven't done any of that before.   That's going to be really fun.  
   
 Q.   That's lovely to build in a sense, into a career, because half the time you go from one event to another, hotel, golf course and don't have the chance to look around?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Exactly.   We don't get a chance to do too much.   The first time I came in 2011; if golf is going to take me to France, I might as well take the opportunity and I came and enjoyed it so much that I've tried to come back whenever I can.  
   
 Q.   And thoughts into Sunday?   Business time again?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Yeah, business time again.   A lot on the line for me.   I'd love to get in The Open Championship, and just any time you can have a chance to get a win, that's always important.   So be very exciting and ready to get after it.   
   
 Q.   Is that uppermost in your mind, that chance of going to St. Andrews, if you're Top‑10 or top three within that Top‑10?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Definitely.   I think the most important thing is to go and try to win the golf tournament and that's going to take care of itself.   After that if we are coming down the last couple holes and doesn't look like we are going to win, definitely try to secure a spot doing whatever it takes.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT