THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 28, 2015
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your second round turns into 1‑under par 6.   Your thoughts on that?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Yeah, happy with the overall result.   Would have liked it to be a little better after the start obviously but played holes yesterday and today in tough conditions, I'll take it.   Anything under par is good.  
   
 Q.   You speak to the start, four birdies in some tough conditions.   Walk us through those?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Yeah, hit a bad tee shot on 1 and hit a really good second to about six feet.  
And then on 2, I hit a good tee shot and a poor second shot but holed a bunker shot.   
3 went to the green in two, had a long bunker shot and hit a pretty good one to ten feet.   
Two good shots on 4 to probably‑‑ 3‑wood, gap wedge to probably 12 feet and made that one.   That was a nice start and then we got delayed and then a little more up‑and‑down today.   
   
 Q.   Speak to the comfortability, you've been back here, staying with Keegan, how are you feeling right now?   
BRENDAN STEELE:   I'm feeling good.   Keegan and I have had a really fun week.   I'm a West Coast guy, so still learning Florida but feel like I'm getting better and better here.   It's my fifth time, so feeling more comfortable.   The course is tough the way the wind is and it changes every day.   Just have to try to get into every shot and not look too far ahead of yourself.  
  
   
 Q.   How difficult were those closing holes today?   
BRENDAN STEELE:   Yeah, when we got to the Bear Trap, the wind really turned on, which is not ideal.   The wind is coming from a very tough direction, so it was really, really tough.   Every hole was brutal.   We got rain on the 15th, which is not great, either.   
So it was just kind of hang on and I played them 2‑over and I don't feel like it's that bad.  
   
 Q.   Humana, you went low and tied for second.   This course you haven't had that much success in your four previous appearances on the weekend.   What would a good score be this afternoon if you do get to play 18 holes?   
BRENDAN STEELE:   In weather like this, anything around par is pretty good.   If you shoot under par you'll probably have a chance to win tomorrow but anything under par will be in there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT