THE HONDA CLASSIC
February 27, 2015
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I guess just start off talking about all the stoppages and coming in late, getting off to a great start and then having to stop again?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Yeah, I mean, it's always weird when you kind of sit around all day and you have a 5:00 tee time.   But I'm staying with Keegan this week, and so we went over to Bear's Club earlier today and hit some balls.   
Tried to kind of wake up from just sitting around all morning and then came over here early for our round, probably like 2:30, and feels like we ate about six times today.   And then get kind of a normal warm‑up and got out there and hit some kind of weird shots and the ball kept going in the hole.   I'll take it.   
   
 Q.   So now with having birdied every hole at the start, are you thinking low or how do you keep yourself from thinking like crazy thoughts tonight?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   I just need to keep doing what I'm doing.   I'm just trying to get into every shot and not really‑‑ doesn't really matter whether it's for birdie or for bogey or whatever's going on.   Just kind of give it everything I have on every shot.   
   
 Q.   You're in a position where you may have to play 32 holes tomorrow if the weather is good.   Are you ready for that?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Yeah, I'm definitely ready for that.   My fitness is good.   I should be in good shape on that front.   I'm not really expecting to have to play 32 holes with the weather looks like but if we have to do that, that will be fine, get into a good rhythm.   
   
 Q.   How much is what you're doing this week a culmination of everything you've been doing this calendar year, week‑in and week‑out?   
BRENDAN STEELE:   Yeah, I mean, that's what it really is.   I've got a good team in place that I've had for the last couple years now, and I feel like my game is solid and not really in flux or anything.   I think that's a big part of it, and just trying to get better on everything that I can.   
   
 Q.   Were the soft, wet greens helpful when you got back out there?   
BRENDAN STEELE:   The greens were fairly soft yesterday, or else the scoring after wage probably would have been about ten shots higher.   They were definitely softer today.   The nice thing about these greens is they hold up really well, even playing late in the day.   They still roll pretty good.   So it's a good combination.   Greens are nice.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday you said the hole‑out on 14 saved your round.   How big was the hole‑out on 2?   
BRENDAN STEELE:   Yeah, not quite as big as the one yesterday.   But it was definitely nice, kind of built some momentum.   Made a weird birdie on the first hole.   Hit a bad tee shot and was able to hit one close, and then hit a good tee shot on 2 and hit a bad second shot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT