WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 1, 2014
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Quite the moving day, 9‑under 62 today.   What is it about this place today?   You had a 6th place, 5th place in the last two years.   I think I asked you about it last year.   What is it about this place that suits your eye so well?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   You know, I think sometimes you just get courses where the shots set up to your eye and you get flags that look good to you, maybe more so here than other places.   Sometimes they don't set up the course the way that I would like, other places that don't suit my game quite as well.   
I think a lot of drivers here is good for me, kind of medium‑wide fairways, and having to get it down there has always kind of suited my game.   I think that's probably the only reason I can say I have a good success here.   
   
 Q.   What specifically about today?   Was the wind not much of a factor today or was it?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Wind wasn't much of a factor until the last couple of holes, and then it kicked up a little bit.   Nowhere near like it was yesterday.   Yesterday was pretty tough.  
   
 Q.   When you were 6‑under or something, you go four straight birdies on the front, which is the harder of the nines.   
BRENDAN STEELE:   Yeah, I think I shot 1‑under and 3‑over or something on that nine.   We knew we were due for some good holes on that side.  
Yeah, I was just trying to make as many birdies as I could.   It's kind of the luxury when you make the cut by a shot.   You have more to gain and not much to lose, so you can just go out there and be more aggressive and see what happens.  
If something strikes the right way, then you get a good round.  
   
 Q.   Were you in danger of missing the cut, or did you make it comfortably?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   Not that comfortably.   I mean, I shot 5‑under the first day, so I shouldn't have been in much danger.   I was 4‑over on 17 and I pulled it, thought it was in the water, wasn't in the water and I made birdie there.   
So I was struggling the last couple holes just to make sure I was playing today.  
   
 Q.   You hit was it 11 straight greens coming in?  
BRENDAN STEELE:   I don't know.     You guys are more into that stuff than I am.   
   
 Q.   And on 9?   
BRENDAN STEELE:   I was in the fringe on 9 about 10 feet, yeah, so I guess I missed that green.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT