VALERO TEXAS OPEN
April 22, 2012
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Brendan, you played terrific golf today.   What was the key?
BRENDAN STEELE:   Well, you know, I was just happy to make the weekend.   On Friday I didn't think I was even going to get a chance to play.   I knew my game was pretty close but just been kind of working on the mental side of it.   Today it's been pretty strong.

Q.   How good does that feel know where you were on Friday and here you are Top-10?
BRENDAN STEELE:   I booked a flight out when I got done Friday morning.   It's pretty nice turn around to be in the Top-10 and have a good week and have a good title defense.

Q.   What is it with this golf course that you like so much?   You win, now you're going to finish probably Top-5.   What is it about this track?
BRENDAN STEELE:   I think mostly that you got to keep it in play off the tee and there's a very heavy penalty for missing the ball off the fairway and just how smart you have to be. 
We seem to understand the course pretty well and we know where we can take on the big chances and where we have to be careful.

Q.   Dennis was talking in the studio, he thought you could have a Major Championship here.   Grow up the rough, it's pretty tough.
BRENDAN STEELE:   Guys have big problem with the rough up.   It is absolutely brutal.   You always get wind.   Make it that much tougher.

Q.   Great track.   What is your schedule now for the next few weeks?
BRENDAN STEELE:   Next week I'm off and I'm going to play Quail Hollow, The Players and Byron Nelson.

Q.   Good playing, man.
  BRENDAN STEELE:   Thank you.

Q.   Brendan, 5-under today, 8-under in the weekend.   Pretty darn good title defense for you.
BRENDAN STEELE:   Yeah, pretty good weekend, especially for a guy who had his bags packed and ready to leave on Friday after his round.   Pretty happy with the results.

Q.   How were you able to turn it around so quickly, as you said you were thinking you might be done?
BRENDAN STEELE:   My game has been really close and I've been working really hard on my mental game in and out and trying to commit to every shot.   Didn't quite work out the first two days.   I really played pretty well.   I got things to go my way the last couples days.

Q.   You certainly would have liked to successfully defend.   How proud are you knowing you've done so in a fine manner?
BRENDAN STEELE:   I'm very happy with myself that I was able to come back here and play well, give a little bit of excitement and have a good finish.

Q.   Next year this tournament is going to have a different date for the fourth consecutive year, the week before the Masters.   How do you fell about that?
BRENDAN STEELE:   I think that's real exciting.   Guys are really going to like coming here.   It's going to give a feel of two Majors in a row.   With how much slope there is on the greens, guys are going to find they get to work on some shots that they're going to see at Augusta.

Q.   That being said, what are some of the things on this course that can get you ready but also get you mentally ready for the Masters?
BRENDAN STEELE:   You really have to pick your spots out here.   They can put some pins in some really tough spots.   Some of the greens are absolutely diabolical.   They've got a lot of run-offs into some tight chipping areas and there's some slopes that you can use that are kind of friendly sometimes and then aren't very friendly a lot of time.

Q.   It had been Redstone the previous years.   Talk about how difficult Redstone has played in terms of what the players see out here.
BRENDAN STEELE:   Redstone is difficult in a different kind of way, in that they shave down the slopes where it runs into the water.   Not a ton of water on this golf course but just a lot of native area that gets you in trouble so you really have to drive the ball well and then the greens are much more severe out here, smaller and more severe.   I think it will be a good test.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT