PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2011
Brendan Steele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Brendan, you bogeyed 18, a lot of guys are coming here --
 BRENDAN STEELE: You know, somebody is going to have to play well on it tomorrow no matter what. It may only take a bogey to win it. 
 But you know, you may need to make a 4 or a 3 to win it, and in that case it's going to be really tough to do. Any shot can get you, even if you hit the middle of the fairway it doesn't mean you're going to make par even. It takes two really quality shots and I had made two pars there before today so I feel like I'm still ahead of the game there. 

 Q. I know you've touched on this, but how has Phil helped you?
 BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, he's helped me tremendously. You know, he's taught me about how to prepare my body just for the week and to make sure that I didn't do anything too strenuous. A lot of the young guys kind of get out and we want to play a lot of practice rounds and hit a lot of balls and by Thursday we are kind of worn out. 
 So he taught us the first time that I played with him just to take it a little bit easier. I played nine holes Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday here, I didn't even play a full 18 and just tried to get it through the heat and make it a little bit easier on my body.

 Q. What will you have to manage tonight and in the long wait until you tee off tomorrow?
 BRENDAN STEELE: Yeah, it will be anxious time. You know, I slept on the lead for two days on the Nationwide Tour Championship last year in a tournament I really had to have just to get out here, and I didn't sleep very well then. 
 I had the lead going into Sunday at San Antonio this year, and slept pretty well there, just because I had been there before, I knew a little bit more of what it took, and you know, I know that all I can do is play well and if somebody plays better than me, then so be it.
 But the best I can do is the best I can do. 

 Q. And as much as you slept on those leads before, how much different is it in a major? How does that change the equation?
 BRENDAN STEELE: Well, I think it will be different in a major. I always tell my friends, you can only want something so much. For the other two events that I won, I really wanted those as much as anything. 
 So, we'll see how it is. My expectations are just to go play a solid round tomorrow and if it's good enough, then great, and if not, then it you know it will be -- this is my first major so hopefully first of many.

 Q. Is there any advantage to maybe first major and not having any negative memories or bad memories or not having had your teeth kicked in by these things before and just kind of going out there and free-wheeling? 
 BRENDAN STEELE: I'll act like that, if that's -- if that will help me, yeah, definitely. 
 I don't know that there is or there isn't. When you talk about guys like Tiger and Phil and Harrington, guys that have won majors and multiple times, you know, I'm sure they have got an advantage over a guy like me.
 But you know, I'm just going to try to hit every shot as well as I can and whatever it adds up to; if it is the best score of the week, then I'll be happy.

 Q. What worked for you today? 
 BRENDAN STEELE: I putted it a lot better today than I did the last two days. I struck it really well yesterday. Shot 2-under with two birdies and 16 pars. 
 Today I didn't strike it quite as well but I holed a bunch of putts. So that's how you score. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT