AMERICAN CENTURY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2019
John Smoltz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Take us through your round today.  You're currently in third place.  How are you feeling about the position you're in?  
JOHN SMOLTZ: Well, I'm disappointed but I'm not disappointed enough about my points.  I just didn't birdie the par-5.  So I guess -- I guess to score 22 points, not make a birdie on a par-5, I feel better about moving forward that I'm certainly going to birdie some par-5s, but I left everything you could leave in the jar.  And it was those "oh what could have been" rounds.  So 22 points is probably the least I could have got with the way I hit the golf ball today.  So tomorrow I hope to make more of those putts count.   
 Q.  You have Tony Romo in the lead with 27.  I mean, he's coming out firing.  So what are you going to do to cool him down?  
JOHN SMOLTZ: Well, there's nothing I can do to cool him down other than I just need to make more birdies.  If I birdied 18, I'd only be a couple points down.  So you know in this format, four to six points is not that huge of a deal.  But when you start dealing with seven and beyond points, it's much harder to catch a quality golfer like Tony Romo.  So I'll be more aggressive tomorrow for sure and try to get more putts into the hole and get a better chance to go in, because they were all going in.  I was probably 13 -- let's see, 14-for-14 on tap-ins, six inches or less.  That's how close they were.   
 Q.  How many birdies did you have?  
JOHN SMOLTZ: I only had three birdies.  I birdied two par-3s and No. 11.  And a couple of bogeys on 13, 12 and 13, and then 16's what bothers me because I had about a 20-foot eagle putt and 3-putted it.   
 Q.  Like I said, you're right in the hunt.  You're among the leaders, how good do you feel about the weekend?  
JOHN SMOLTZ: I feel real good.  I normally don't get off to a good start here, and this probably is my best first round score I've ever had.  And usually the weekend I find a way to play a little bit better.  So I would expect to get 26 or more points tomorrow.  That's my goal and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  A number of recognizable names at the top of the leaderboard.  But one of the other big news notes today is that Charles Barkley shot 94, his best round in 15 years.  Birdied No. 2 and is minus 12 points.  Does that have you worried?  
JOHN SMOLTZ: That has me proud.  Tears are coming down my eyes because Charles is the ultimate perseverer.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT