NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
June 7, 2018
George Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What is the mentality trying to pull off what a lot of people think is close to impossible?  
GEORGE HILL: Well, you've got to take one game at a time.  You know, we put ourselves in a hole, and had the the opportunity to win Game 1 and then possibly Game 3.  So we made our own bed.  Now we've got to dig ourselves out.   
 Q.  How much of it is you guys having to make changes and adapt, adjust?  How much of it is just what the Warriors are doing?  
GEORGE HILL: You've always got to make changes and things like that.  But they're doing a great job.  They're moving without the ball very well.  They're passing very well, and they're making shots.  They're being poised about it.  So we've got our hands full, and we've got to figure it out.   
 Q.  George, you're down 3-0.  How do you mentally approach Game 4 to keep this series alive?  
GEORGE HILL: I don't know.  I don't think there is anything mentally you can do.  You're down 3-0, so it's a must-win situation or the season's over, so that's enough said.   
 Q.  You know the history; no team has ever come from three games down.  
GEORGE HILL: I don't know.  I don't pay attention to the history stuff.  I don't care about history.   
 Q.  Do you think Cleveland has what it takes to overcome this?  
GEORGE HILL: We're still a resilient team.  I think every guy in this locker room still wants to fight, still is going to try to win.  But we don't focus on history.  The only time a couple years ago they said history, no one has done the 3-1 or whatever it was, and they end up doing that.  So history doesn't mean anything.   
 Q.  How do you focus on this game knowing that you have to win this game, and not thinking about winning three more afterwards?  
GEORGE HILL: The only thing you can do is focus on Game 4.  We can't get to Game 5 unless we take care of Game 4, so that's all that needs to be said.   
 Q.  Kevin Durant is one of the hardest players to guard.  Do you have a new game plan?  What can you do to make him uncomfortable?  
GEORGE HILL: He's an MVP, a Finals MVP for a reason.  He can do a lot of different things.  But I think we're making it tough on him.  The shots he's hitting are not easy shots.  They're back to the basket, faced up, fading away over the back of the rim, things like that, tough shots where we're contesting, hands in the face.  He's just an unbelievable shooter.   
 Q.  When Golden State gets on those runs and those spurts, when you're out there, why are they so tough to stop?  It seems like once they get rolling, it's almost impossible to stop the roll they get?  
GEORGE HILL: I mean, they've been doing that for years.  That's what Golden State is.  They may start out slow, but they have a lot of guys who can put the ball in the hole at a high volume.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT