NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS vs WARRIORS
May 30, 2018
George Hill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Obviously LeBron has a very high mental IQ.  The Warriors, really, a lot of them, were talking about how high his IQ is.  Can you give us a specific example on or off the court where he's been like a mentor/providing that high IQ?
GEORGE HILL: I don't have a particular example in my head, but it speaks for itself.  He's the greatest to play the game.  The way he carries himself, the way he prepares, the way he sees the court, making passes, unbelievable shots. The times where you say how the heck did he do that really speaks for itself.  We're just here to have fun and live with whatever happens.
Q. Have you gotten Chipotle yet?
GEORGE HILL: No.
Q. What has your experience taught you about defending Steph?
GEORGE HILL: Just to try to keep the ball out of his hands as much as possible.  Once he gives it up, try not to let him get it back.  We know he's going to make tough shots, and sometimes you've got to live with it.  He's one of the best shooters in the game for a reason.  He makes a high rate of shots and makes it tough on you.
So just have fun, compete, make it tough for him as much as you can, and live with whatever happens.
Q. If he does get on a roll as a defender, how do you not get demoralized?
GEORGE HILL: He's been on a roll his whole life.  He's going to have those times where he makes three or four threes in a row, two here, one here, it doesn't matter.  The only thing you've got to do is know that he's going to make tough shots.  Continue to defend at a high rate, be physical, and have fun with him.
Q. Was there a shift in the locker room, I guess, through going through the first series against Indiana through 7 and now going through the Celtics through 7?  I mean, just by your energy, your adrenaline?  Are you guys just keeping it even keeled going into this series?
GEORGE HILL: I mean, just even keeled.  We talked about what do we have to lose?  No one expected us to be here.  No one expected this team to get to where we are today.  You know, LeBron has been unbelievable so far.
Like you said, we just go out here, play our hearts out, leave it all on the court.  If You make shots, you make them. If you miss them, you miss them. If you turn it over, you turn it over. But let's all stay together, let's have fun doing it, and all believe in each other.
Q. What's it mean for you personally to be back here?
GEORGE HILL: For me, it's a blessing.  It's fun.  It's a great opportunity.  It's something I wouldn't have ever thought about or dreamed of this year.  So to be in this situation where I'm competing for the NBA Finals on year 10 of my career, you can't take it for granted.
Q. You've been in winning situations pretty much your whole career until this year.  How much more do you appreciate being here, given the first 50 games of this season?
GEORGE HILL: I mean, like I said, I'm truly blessed to have the opportunity.  Like you said, the first 50 games were a roller coaster, but to get the opportunity to be in this environment, this magnitude is something that I can't believe that happened.  So I'm truly blessed.  I'm happy to be a part of the opportunity.  I can't wait until it all starts and just have fun doing it.
Q. How's your health?
GEORGE HILL: Great, feeling good, man.
Q. What kind of pressure are the guys in the supporting cast being asked to step in and fill in for other people and help LeBron?  What kind of pressure do you guys feel?
GEORGE HILL: I don't know, you guys say help.  What do you think we're doing?  We're out there playing.  You're going to make shots; you're going to miss shots.  I'm sure every guy on this team doesn't go out there and say, hey, I want to miss all the shots so it gives you something to talk about.
I think you just make it -- you just need something else to talk about, so you're going to say, oh, he needs this, he needs that.  But if you feel that way.  I'll get out there and play and see if guys do anything different.
Q. This team has had to adjust so much, and the changes and so on, even Curry said you guys are probably still learning each other.  So what's that process like?
GEORGE HILL: It's a tough process.  You know, when you say -- I think we have six new guys come to this team in the middle of the season with 30 games left, to come out here and say, hey, you're coming to a team that competes for NBA Finals every year, that already has everything really set in stone, and how can you guys find a way to put yourself in position to fit in, that's tough.
But like you said, we're still learning.  If we could go back in time, we'd say, man, let's start the season in October, all of us here.  But we didn't have that time.  We didn't have that time machine to do that.  So in 30 games we had to do the best we could, to be the best help, to learn the most plays we can, to learn the defensive schemes like that, and we're still learning.  Guys still trying to find their ways and learning how to play this NBA Championship basketball with one of the best players in the world.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT