NBA DRAFT
June 23, 2011
MarShon Brooks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MARSHON BROOKS (No. 25)
  BOSTON CELTICS

 Q. MarShon, your thoughts on being drafted by the Celtics. 
 MARSHON BROOKS: It was a long wait, definitely unexpected, but I'm very blessed to be in this situation. I got here through hard work, and I will continue to work. 

 Q. Word is you may have been traded to the New Jersey Nets. What would it be like to play for the Nets?
 MARSHON BROOKS: Just look forward to going in there and just trying to help them anyway possible. They have a really good point guard in Deron Williams, it's going to make life easy for me and I'm just looking forward to helping him.

 Q. Who did you grow up a fan of? 
 MARSHON BROOKS: I was born in New Jersey, but I was raised in Atlanta, but I was always a Shaq fan growing up early. So I was an Orlando fan and once he got traded to the Lakers, that's when I started becoming a Lakers fan, and that's when I started liking Kobe, as well. 

 Q. Tell us about not just your ability to score at will, but also talk about your versatility. You have a lot of versatility; how will that contribute to the team that you'll be with? 
 MARSHON BROOKS: First of all, I can score a lot of different ways, because of my childhood, growing up playing point guard most of my life. The ball used to being under my hand, I'm able to create my own shot without a ball screen or without an off-screen or anything. And playing at Providence, I think that just got me ready for the future. 

 Q. If there was a sleeper pick in the second round, if you were a GM and you had a choice, could you name one player that you would think of as a sleeper?
 MARSHON BROOKS: Andrew Goudelock.

 Q. Has this whole week leading up to the Draft been emotional and kind of nerve-wracking for you, wondering what's going to happen, wondering where your life is going to be over the next couple of years or decade or however long you're in the NBA?
 MARSHON BROOKS: Oh, yeah, it definitely was. It was real tough on me honestly, just not knowing. That's the main thing, just not knowing. You hear a lot of different things. The Draft is very unique, and as you see this year, a lot of different things happening that nobody expected, and I just look forward to helping New Jersey. 

 Q. You played in the BIG EAST, and you were able to score all of those points in the BIG EAST. Talk about how that competition is going to prepare you for the next level day in, day out, playing great teams. 
 MARSHON BROOKS: I think, yeah, definitely, the BIG EAST from a competitive level is definitely, bar none, the best. And on top of that, playing in the BIG EAST, when you play 16 teams, you play so many different styles each night. I think I'll be ready for anything the league has to throw at me, but I just look forward to it. It's a dream come true.

 Q. What role do you see yourself playing with the Nets next season?
 MARSHON BROOKS: Anything they need me to do. I have played a lot of different roles in my four years at Providence, but like I said, Providence just has me so ready for this situation that I'm in right now and I mean, I like to score the ball. That's what I like to do. But I'm willing to do extra. 

 Q. How familiar are you with the Nets right now?
 MARSHON BROOKS: With the Nets? They didn't have too many TV games but I've watched a lot of basketball and I'm pretty familiar with the Nets. Do you want me to tell you the starting five? (Laughter).

 Q. What's your impression?
 MARSHON BROOKS: Team on the rise. Definitely a team with new management that's just trying to get to the top. 

 Q. How was it for your family this week? You've had quite a few around you the last couple of days. 
 MARSHON BROOKS: It was huge. It was definitely huge for me, to be living my dream, and just my whole family. I'm pretty sure they can't wait for me to leave this interview right now, but especially my mom, raising me by herself, and not the best neighborhood. She was my mom and my dad. So hats off to her first. 

 Q. Talk about coming to the end of this experience. You were traveling all over the place and meeting all of these different teams and hearing a lot of different rumors. How does it feel that you're finally done and you don't know where you're going to be, but you will be somewhere next year? 
 MARSHON BROOKS: It's definitely a great feeling. Like I said, I've been waiting on this, and it has not just started these last couple of months, even though it was nerve-wracking for me the last couple of months. Just like everybody else that's out there, it was a lifelong dream and it's finally over and I just look forward to just living it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT