MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2012
Randal Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you summarize the week for us?   
RANDAL LEWIS:   Oh, gosh.   Almost surreal.   I mean, I don't know how else to describe it.   This is just way beyond any expectations that I had.   It's nerve wracking, too.   You want to do your best.   But on the back nine especially, I just tried to stop and look around at the crowds and just‑‑ the sights and the holes and take it all in.   This is probably a once‑in‑a‑lifetime deal.   It was cool.   It was unbelievable.   
   
 Q.   What's your biggest takeaway?   
RANDAL LEWIS:   How good these guys are.   You know, just the whole experience has been an amazing journey for me.   I mean, it's just really all my friends and family and just the incredible support I've had.   It's just been a wonderful experience from start to finish.   It's been just incredible.   
Lucky to have so many great friends.   It's been special.   
   
 Q.   What did you do on 18?  
RANDAL LEWIS:   I made 5.   I had like 230 to the pin up the hill, and I thought, well, let's leave it between the bunkers and try to get it up‑and‑down.  
   
 Q.   Was your last putt a tap‑in or a four‑footer?  
RANDAL LEWIS:   It was just a few inches.   The putt was straight downgrain, downhill.   I played it outside the hole and died it.   When you play it that slow, it just meanders wherever.   
   
 Q.   What do you think was your hole you played best this week, or stretch of holes, and why?   
RANDAL LEWIS:   9 and 10.   I made pars on 9 and 10 both rounds, and those were for me really hard golf holes.   I'm hitting hybrids into the green.  
   
 Q.   What did you have into 9, how far?   
RANDAL LEWIS:   We figured we had 185 to the middle, so I hit a hard 21‑degree hybrid.   I kind of started to draw it in and the wind grabbed it and moved it to the middle, and that's as good as I could hit it.   That was good.   
   
 Q.   Those are elevated greens, so that's why it makes it even harder.   
RANDAL LEWIS:   It's a long golf course, let me tell you.  
   
 Q.   How much longer do you think it is than any other golf course you've played?  
RANDAL LEWIS:   Well, the problems is the hills.   So many of the tee shots you're hitting into the hills, or if you're not on the hill you're hitting off a downslope, and every shot is pretty challenging.   There isn't really an easy shot out here for me for the most part.  
   
 Q.   Did it play longer today or yesterday?   
RANDAL LEWIS:   It played longer yesterday.   But it was still plenty long today.   We weren't getting much roll today even.  
   
 Q.   Did you have many mud balls?  
RANDAL LEWIS:   Some, but nothing that really had any real effect on me today.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned earlier in the week you'd probably have a security guard get you out of here.   Do you still feel that way?   
RANDAL LEWIS:   Well, we'll probably leave in a timely fashion here.   Actually at some point I've got to get back to work.   I have not been home since February 19th, so I am really looking forward to getting back home.   It's been a long time to be on the road, and it's going to be good to be back home in my own bed and see my dog and kind of get back to my normal life.   No, I won't think about the Masters every day‑‑ well, for about a month, yeah.   For about a month anyway.   After a month goes by, then maybe I won't think about the Masters every single day.  
   
 Q.   You've been thinking about it ever since September every day?  
RANDAL LEWIS:   Oh, yeah, every day.   Yeah, there's not one day that went by that I haven't thought about this week.   
   
 Q.   What are your playing plans the rest of the season?  
RANDAL LEWIS:   I've got a pretty busy schedule.   I'm not going to play for a while.   I'm going to go home and I've got a lot of work to do to catch up on things, so I'll go home and I won't play for a few weeks probably, and then I'm going to play the Michigan amateur late June at Oakland Hills.   That will be my first event back.   Then we have got a charity event up in Mount Pleasant that I'm going to be participating in, and then I'll play the Senior Open at Indianwood mid‑July and then I've got the U.S. Amateur, the U.S. Mid‑Amateur and the U.S. Senior Amateur.   I've got a pretty good schedule at the end of the summer, which is good.   Typically that's my better stretch of golf after I've played for a while.   
My game needs a lot of work.   I did not play well either day here, and I was just holding on with everything I had, every ounce of experience I had, just trying to keep it together.   But my putter was good.   That was really encouraging.   To putt greens like this as well as I did was‑‑ that's good.   I mean, that's‑‑ some of those putts, they're quick.   It takes a little bit of nerve to stand over them and roll them in.   So I was real pleased with that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT