ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2018
Alexander Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Five birdies in six holes around the turn, what was the one thing in your game that really stood out?
ALEX LEVY: I think I played solid and I holed some putts, so that helped.  Yesterday, I played good golf but I struggled a little bit on the green with the pace and the break.  Today, I putt really well.  That was the difference.
Q. Obviously you were a big part of what happened last week.  As a Frenchman, with The Ryder Cup in France, I know you're going to have to fend this off a lot this week, or this year, all the way up until The Ryder Cup.  How does it make you feel?  Is there more of an incentive now after what you experienced last week?
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, that was an amazing week.  I really liked the team event.  It was my first time since I'm a pro.  For sure, I dream about this Ryder Cup in France, but I go to work, I go to practise hard and I will try my best to make this team.
Q. And so on that note, as well, when you are looking at the strategy, heading into the rest of this week, as well, what is the secret to stay present when you've got incentives like that on the line?
ALEX LEVY: I think I struggled with that last year, and I'm really pleased with my attitude these first two days because I don't play my best golf but I just enjoy on the course.  I think I need to follow this way, and if I want to play good golf, it's the key.
Q. You started off with a bogey on your second hole.  Does that make it sweeter, the fact that you came back and finished 7-under for the day?
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, I didn't start well today.  I make a few good putts in a row and I think I make five birdies in six holes.  So that helps.  I think I just hole some putts today.  That was the difference.  So I practised hard this winter on the putting, so I'm happy.
Q. When you get on a roll of birdies like you did around the turn, does it affect the way you approach the rest of the round?
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, but I didn't realise.  Nick just told me I made six birdies.  So yeah, I just play my game.  I try my best at every shot.  I think that was the key the first two days, and I just enjoy.  I'm happy with the way I played golf the first two days.
Q. Always nice to finish a good round with a nice birdie.  Talk us through that.
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, especially I don't hit a good shot on 7 and 8, so I focused with two good swings and two good shots, and I holed a good putt for birdie.  So that's nice to sleep on that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT