WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 5, 2015
Alexander Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Perfect finish to a great round for you today?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, it was a very good round.   I was very happy with this day.   It was nice.   Very tough condition, and I played really good golf.   I hit some good shots in good position.   That was the key today.   
   
 Q.   And the wind, how much of a factor was it out there?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   It was very strong and on this golf course with this setup, it was very difficult.   
   
 Q.   This is your first time here.   Is this the kind of golf course that you thought you could play well on?   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, I like America.   I like the setup of golf course in America.   No, after the two practice days, I was really enjoy to play this golf course because for us it's a big test for the start of this season.   And with 4‑under, I really take confidence to play this type of golf course, and will be good for the rest of the year.   
   
 Q.   4‑under 68 in the first round, talk about your round?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   I was really happy to be object this golf course.   It's a very tough golf course.   After my two practice rounds, I put a plan and today I do a good job on this plan.   I hit some good shots in the right spot and my putting was there.   That was the key today.  
   
 Q.   You had the two bogeys back‑to‑back on the back nine, otherwise it was a pretty good card?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, I make one 3‑putt, and unfortunately I was not very unlucky‑‑ my shot bounce back just on the upslope of the bunker and I hit a pretty good shot from the edge of the bunker to six feet and I missed the putt.   But no, I really enjoy this day.   I stayed patient all the day and I think it was the key today with the wind, the tough setup of the golf course.   
   
 Q.   Your 17 and 18 holes were pretty interesting.   It was a great save on 17?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, it was a great save.   Hit my driver in the bunker, hit lay‑up and not a great wedge shot.   I make a nice putt for par.   
And the birdie on 18, I'm never thinking I would make birdie but I hit two great shots in the right place and I holed a good putt.  
   
 Q.   Your second shot on 18, was it more lucky or unlucky, because it raced right past the hole?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   I think where the ball finished was a great shot and lucky shot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT