ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 16, 2015
Alexander Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Tell me about the round, obviously two good rounds to start?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, today was a good day.   I make some good saves and that's really happy.   I take a good strategy on the golf course.   I hit some drive but bad luck on the rough, and I just lay up and try to make the par with a wedge put.   That was the key.   I'm really happy with that.   
And after I hit some good shots, that's the key.   I'm really happy with the birdie on the last, two very good shots.   I'm going to try my best for the next two days.   
   
 Q.   In terms of just obviously you had a great sort of year last year, and starting this year, you just want to carry on that momentum, really, don't you, so it's a perfect start?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, that's true, because the mentality change between the start of the last year and this year.   It was really exciting to start the season, and I think I feel on the golf course‑‑ no, it's very nice for me to start like that for confidence, that's for sure.   
   
 Q.   Do you come into the season thinking any differently?   Do you feel any different, or same guy?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, same guy.   Just try to enjoy.   And what I feel it's good, I can progress more and that's the key.   I'm going to try my best on that.  
   
 Q.   So goal for the season is just to keep building on that.   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Try to play a little bit less because I think last year, I played 32 tournaments, and that's a lot.   Maybe keep energy on that and try to be ready for the big events like this week.  
   
 Q.   Looked a couple moments when the smile disappeared from your face, but you did get it back together again?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, it's very difficult golf course when you start to hit in the rough.   I hit a bad drive but I make some good saves and that's the key.   I keep to try my best on the golf course and that's a really good attitude.  
   
 Q.   I know it's only the halfway stage, but are you conscious of what Martin Kaymer is doing up ahead?   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, it's amazing after five weeks off to play like that but no, just try to enjoy tomorrow, and do my best I can, and we'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   After a break for yourself, you're doing pretty well, aren't you?   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   That's true.   But I feel sometimes my mind was on the moon.   But I try to come back and focus on the game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT