BMW MASTERS
November 1, 2014
Alexander Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SARAH GWYNN:   Alex, thank you very much for joining us today and well played today.   You're in a fantastic position going into the final day.   Just sum up your thoughts from today. 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   I played an amazing round.   I was not surprised but it was a very fun game.   I played with Nicolas and Romain, two very good friends.   It was a very good round. 
I enjoy a lot the way I played the first three rounds, and it was a good, good game and I look to do my best tomorrow and try to play the same golf and to be aggressive like the first round. 
SARAH GWYNN:   You're making it look very easy out there.   Is this a week when everything about your game is just on top form? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, it's true.   I can say I was not in top form.   I win two weeks ago, I play good golf and it's true, I am confident.   You don't have that lot of time of the year, and I need to enjoy this moment and do my best tomorrow and try to do the same job. 

Q.   Are you surprised by making the birdie putt on No. 6? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, it was a very tough putt downhill like one metres and a half break.   And when you hole a putt like that you are a little bit surprised, but it was a good putt and it was the putt I want to hit.   And yeah, it was a good putt.

Q.   Every time we saw you, you were a big smile on your face.   Is that only when you make birdies? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah (smiling) that's true.   I try to be like that all the time, but sure, it's just when you play well and make some birdies. 
No, I enjoy a lot to play with Romain, my good friend, and Nicolas and I think it's for that, too, I smile all the day and do have fun with the two boys.

Q.   What did you say to Romain when you finished or what did he say to you? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   He say to me, "Impressive game."   He say, "Impressive game, my friend." 
No, but we are all two good friends, and I know him for a long time, like Victor and I think it's nice to be part like that and to play for the top of the leaderboard. 

Q.   You went very low in Portugal for two rounds in sort of soft, wet conditions.   Is that where you play your best golf, because you've got similar this week?
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yes, it's true, I like the target golf where I can play like the number, exactly the number for me.
When the greens are a bit more firm, the golf course a little bit more firm, it's not my best.   But for sure I like when it's more target golf.   I like this golf course, this type of golf course, and that's for sure, I prefer to play a golf course like that here. 

Q.   I believe you're sharing a room here with Romain.   Do you pay the hotel bill if you win tomorrow night? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   But the problem, I've got to pay the bill tonight.   But to be fair, we are going to be a nice party Sunday night. 

Q.   Another question, you've known Romain for a long while.   Are you playing better‑‑ I know you only played two rounds in Portugal, but are you playing better, do you feel, than when you won in China a few months ago and also in Portugal? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   I don't know.   I don't know exactly.   But I try my best and for sure, I play good golf the last few weeks.   I feel I play better because I hit more good shots than before and it was what I work with my coach. 

Q.   Perhaps a better question would be, has your confidence grown since those victories? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, I think if you don't have confidence when you win, for sure, you need to see a psychologie (laughter).   But for sure, I take confidence‑‑ I take more confidence by the shot I hit than the win, that's the key. 

Q.   You made birdies on all the par 5s today, a little bit better improvement compared to the last couple days?
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, that's true. 

Q.   What was different between today and the previous two days that you be able to get all birdies on the par5s?
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Par 5s, I think I hit three greens in two shots, and that's‑‑ just to make birdie on the par5 and I make a good shot on No.2 to make birdie. 

Q.   What did you hit on No. 10?
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Gap wedge, 52 degrees.

Q.   And what about No. 1?
ALEXANDER LEVY:   9‑iron. 

Q.   And lastly, growing up, who was your inspiration for golf? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   I think when I was young, it was Tiger, that's for sure.   But the last few months, I like the way he plays, McIlroy, that's for sure.   I like the player very aggressive with the flag and with the driver.   I like that. 
SARAH GWYNN:   Good luck tomorrow, Alex.   Thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT