BMW MASTERS
October 31, 2014
Alexander Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ALEXANDER LEVY:   Very good day.   Solid game like yesterday.   I make one bogey but this is the life.   A good game, good iron shots, good driving, good putting, perfect, and nice to be in this position for the weekend.

Q.   You must have been laughing to yourself going through the front nine knowing it's just a lovely continuation of yesterday?
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, it's true.   I start very well today and birdie on the first and second, and the fourth. 
Some good iron shots, good driving.   I make a good job on the course, and I'm going to try my best this weekend because I feel good swing, I feel good putting and that's a good feeling for the rest of the tournament. 

Q.   I know we touched on this yesterday but how much confidence have you got from winning, I think moving in, leading a tournament like this? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   I don't know if it's the score gives me confidence.   I think it's just the way I play golf.   I hit a very good shot and I think it's that, after winning‑‑ it's possible to win the tournament.   I think the key was the game and I played some solid shots and that's for me the key and that gives me the confidence. 

Q.   You'll tell me if I'm being too personal here but you've won two tournaments this year and you're sharing a room this week with Romain Wattel. 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, that's fun.   I'm sharing the room together.   We are very good friends like with Victor.   I think it's good tomorrow to play together.   I'm very happy and we're going to enjoy the 18 holes and I hope we're going to play the final day together. 

Q.   Don't you want to switch off at last rather than sit down in the same bedroom with somebody else? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   No, I've known Romain since I was 15.   He had a few problems the last few weeks and he asked me if I could share with him.   I am a good friend with him and I think it's nice to stay with him.   I'm happy to see his name on the leaderboard because I'm feeling good the last few weeks and I think it's nice to see him play good.   I think I help him to play good like that.

Q.   He says it's fun, as well, and the two of you are enjoying seeing each other up on that board. 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, three or four big tournaments, let's go play golf and hopefully we both make a good score. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT