BMW MASTERS
October 30, 2014
Alexander Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SARAH GWYNN:   Alex, thanks for joining us, 65 today, very well played.   Just talk us through the highlights of that round. 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   I played very good today.   Bogey‑free for me.   The last three tournaments, I do that, and I do that again today.   It's what I want in my game, to be consistent on the golf course and I like when I do a bogey‑free. 
It's a very good game.   I missed one fairway I think today and I'm still aggressive on the golf course and I like to play this golf and I need to be thinking like that for the rest of the week.

Q.   The golf course is playing very long in all the rain.   Is that something that plays to your advantage? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, that part of my game, it's straight and long and today I was very straight and long.   It's true, the golf course is very long, like drive, 5‑iron, drive, 6‑iron.   But I like the golf course like that.   I think it's nice because it's long iron but the greens are a little bit soft and you can have a good pin‑high for the flag and I think it's good to play a golf course like that.   For me, I like this golf course.

Q.   And you won in China earlier this year.   What is it about this country that you like? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Oh, I think this country likes me (smiling).   For me, this golf course is pretty much the same of Shenzhen.   For me, I like this type of golf course with water and the target golf.   No, I enjoy to be in China, and I go to try my best the last few days and try to do the same things of I think it was in April.   No, I like China, that's for sure. 

Q.   There are a lot of golfers in France, but we don't see that many really top world‑class players from France, maybe only one player representing The Ryder Cup, The European Team.   But being with The Ryder Cup going to France in 2018, do you think there will be more and more world‑class top players, Top‑10 in the world coming from France? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, I think it's true, no French player won a major or something like that.   But I think we have a good mix between the older generation and young generation.   Like Victor played The Ryder Cup this year and I think it showed all the French players, it's possible to play a big event like that and be in position to be in The Ryder Cup in France in 2018. 
For my part, it's true, I'm thinking only about that, to be in France in 2018 on this golf course, it's an amazing place.   I think we will have, I hope, two or three players on The Ryder Cup in 2018.   Because we have a good generation, every year some players, some French players won on the Tour and in new French players come on The European Tour and I think it's good for the French generation, yeah, that's for sure. 

Q.   You won the China Open in Shenzhen and today you played so well.   Next year in April, there will be one more extra European Tour event.   It will be held actually at the golf club where you won earlier this year.   So do you see yourself coming to China more since it seems like China has been like a lucky charm for you, a great place and you've been playing so well. 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   No, it's true.   I like China.   But next year, I'm going to play the golf course I won, that's for sure, but after‑‑ I don't know, it's only one round today.   It's true I play well but I don't know if I go to win this tournament.   We have three more rounds.   But sure, I don't know, I think it's more the type of the golf course I like.   In China it's very target golf and I like this golf course. 
It's true, I enjoy the life in China but I don't want to say I'm going to play every tournament in China (laughing).   I like the life on The European Tour, too, in Europe.

Q.   Good 65 on a tricky course. 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, I played very good today, bogey‑free.   I like that.   I have played very good golf.   I work the last few weeks on my putting, and I putt well today.   No, I think it's good for the rest of the last four tournaments. 

Q.   And you started superbly, as well.   Was it five birdies on the front nine?
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, five birdies, four in a row.   No, it's good, yeah.   I played really good golf, and the last few weeks, I played really good.   I need to keep like that for the rest of the tournament. 

Q.   You're playing in tricky conditions, when it's rain like this, and the course is a long one, so the ball is not traveling far?
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, that's true, but I think today, I missed only one fairway.   That was the key.   And I hit long and after I'm thinking only to the target, to the flag.   No, I'm very happy with the way I played here. 

Q.   I take it you're happy with your year, because you've won already at the China Open and you've won Portugal, as well.   Great confidence? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, but I don't think about that on the golf course, just takes some pleasure on the golf course, and play the flag and enjoy the game. 

Q.   Is there something about playing in China? 
ALEXANDER LEVY:   It's nice to be back in China.   We will see what happens in the rest of the tournament, but I like it and I think the golf course looks like the golf course I play in Shenzhen.   I think I like this type of golf course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT