PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 12, 2014
Alexander Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   From two wins in a year, how does that feel?   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   It feels very special.   If at the start of the year if you say to me I'm going to win two tournaments, I say never to you.   It's a very nice feeling to me.   I'm very happy, I walk out on this game and I think I played a good game this week and the week in China.   
   
 Q.   Friday afternoon, you shot 18‑under par for 36 holes, and some of the guys belt it off the tee, so you could finish and not have to really worry about the rain delay.   What difference did that make to you?   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   The simple question is I play only four shots of the weekend and I win the tournament.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about that?   We want to win over 72 holes as professional golfers and you've won over 36.   Does it take anything away from this championship win for you?   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, it's special because only on 36 holes, but after Friday night, I know I play only 54, but it's a special feeling at this time.   I don't realise a lot because I was focused to play the last round and win the tournament.  
   
 Q.   Do you think the Tour should have started early this morning?   Do you think we should have had a new draw and gone at seven in the morning, or do you think they got it right?   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   If I have that in my hand, I can say yes.   I don't see the forecast yesterday night, and I think the forecast was like that, yeah, probably it was better to play the morning.   After that, I don't know the contract or anything but most important is I have this in my hand.  
   
 Q.   You are well up there in Race to Dubai, Final Series coming up; are you playing all four?   Are you going to win some more?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   I play next week first, a very big tournament in London Golf Club, and after, I play four big events, too.   
I'm going to try to play like I played the first two rounds, and impress myself with the way I play golf, and I think need to continue like that, because it's a very good way I think.   
   
 Q.   Been a fantastic year and you got your second win in a year.   How do you feel?   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, I feel very special, especially today, because I don't play, I only play 36 holes, it's very special.   I was very focused to restart after the rain delay, but I think this decision change my life and give me one more trophy.  
   
 Q.   It was quite important that probably you got finished on Friday night with all the delays yesterday, must have been nice to get that score on the board and know in round two that you were leading the tournament.   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, exactly, it was the key.   I just finished in the darkness Friday night, and I take a day off yesterday and just practise some gym and to prepare the last round and don't stay during four hours, I think was the good things of me.   
   
 Q.   Does it take anything away from the win that it was only 36 holes, not 72?   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, it's not the same, but I take it.   It's a win and I play really good, I think during 36 holes, 18‑under on 36 holes is a very good score I think.   
I'm happy the way I played, and I think I need just to keep that in my mind and to continue to play like that.   Five more tournaments coming, big events, and I need to try to play like that.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT