PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 10, 2014
Alexander Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well played, is that one of the longest rounds of golf you've ever played, with a gap in between?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   It's true, I wake up at 6.30 and I finish in the dark.   
It was a good day.   It was tough.   Three times, I'm back to the range, come back to the players' lounge, back to the range.   But it was good.   I was playing good in the morning and I was in a good way, and I restart good back the last eight holes and I played really good golf.   I'm very happy with my game, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You almost got a hole‑in‑one on 13, you almost holed your second on 14, so the iron play looks spot‑on at the moment.   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   It's true, and what I like, I'm very accurate with the irons and I don't make a lot of bogeys.   I don't think I make bogey.   That's good.  
It's true, my irons are good.   I worked a lot the last three weeks on that with my coach, and I think last week was some good iron shots.   I didn't play good the last day, but this week I'm very happy with my game, yeah.  
   
 Q.   61, you have to be pleased.   Nicolas Colsaerts very nearly got the 59 yesterday.   If there is to be a 59, this could well be the course that provides it.   
ALEXANDER LEVY:   I don't know, I think Nicolas played very well yesterday.   He hits long and I think on this golf course, if you hit long, it's good.   But today, I think I was not close to it, two more shots lower.   
But no, I think 61, it's always a very good score, 10‑under, and it's a good way of my game, yeah.   
   
 Q.   The tournament has now been reduced to three rounds, so tomorrow, a day off for you, but it looks as though you may well have a nice gap to take into Sunday?  
ALEXANDER LEVY:   Yeah, I can say another thing is I think 54 holes is good for me.   But no, I think I'm going to do some gym tomorrow, work a little bit, and take a good time in the room and to be ready and rested to try to play like the two days.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT