OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 28, 2018
Alexander Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you summarise the final round 70?  
ALEX LEVY: It's nice.  I shoot 2-under today.  Tough conditions.  I played really good golf.  I struggled a bit on the greens but still a good week.  I think it's a good week and a good preparation for the next tournament coming.   
 Q.  Do you feel you played some very good golf tee-to-green and just missed a few putts on the greens?  
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, I think I tried too hard today.  A lot of pressure on me on my shoulder today on the greens, but I learned, I'm still young, and that's a good point.   
But the long game was really good today in tough conditions, and also, I make bogey on 9 with a chip I was thinking was perfect and also don't make birdie on 13 with the same situation, perfect chip, don't release.   
So I'm happy with this round of golf.  I think I just need to learn confidence with that.   
 Q.  What was going through your mind when you made the early birdies on 6 and 7?  What were you thinking?  
ALEX LEVY: Just nice, because I miss a few short on the first hole, so it was nice.  And after, I think I tried too hard, and just today, I put a little bit too much pressure on my shoulder and it was tough.  But I still shoot a good round of golf.   
 Q.  Talk us through that putt on 7.  
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, 7, it was good.  I holed a nice putt on 6 and I holed a long putt on 7, so that was pretty good.   
 Q.  A positive three weeks for you?  
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, EurAsia Cup was an amazing week.  I learned a lot at that.  I build confidence and yeah, Top-10 last week and top five this week.  So that's good for the confident and yeah, I'm getting closer to Top-50.   
 Q.  Do you feel a win is just around the corner?  
ALEX LEVY: I just feel my game is there, and I just need to put my mind in a good way.  I think it's only that, and try to enjoy and don't try too hard to have the results, and just enjoy.  We have a nice life and I played good some golf, so just enjoy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT