OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 27, 2018
Alexander Levy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. That was a round that had pretty much of everything, wasn't it?
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, really good round.  I shoot 7-under and I feel good in my game.  I enjoy to play golf.  I'm lucky, and I played some good rounds today.
Q. Talk us through that fantastic moment on the fourth.
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, that was a perfect yardage, little 9-iron.  I hit a perfect shot straight to the flag and I don't know, I get lucky to make because it's a lot of downhill, left-to-right, and I just watched the shot and yeah, perfect pace, perfect shot.  But it's little bit lucky.
Q. How did it feel when it dropped in?
ALEX LEVY: Feel nice, but I look around and no prize, so I was a little bit upset (laughing).
Q. And then you had an amazing run around the turn.  Talk us through that.
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, I promise you, the last few days I play some good golf.  I just enjoy and try to hit the perfect shots.  I got a good stretch 9 to 14.  And from there, I start to think, I'm leading the tournament, so I put a little bit more pressure on my shoulder, and I miss three short putts in a row.  But I bounce back on 18 with a great birdie.
Q. Were you looking at leaderboards?
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, not looking, or looking every time.  I just start to think about what can happen and I don't enjoy the moment.  A lot of crowd there.  It was tough because it was noisy and so I lost a little bit of concentration, also.  So yeah, it was not easy, but I will learn on that and I will try my best tomorrow.
Q. On a positive note, it was a fantastic way to finish, wasn't it?
ALEX LEVY: Yeah, two great shots, one perfect drive, one perfect 3-iron against the wind.  So good putt, yeah.  It was good to finish well, the day, and to sleep with a birdie in my mind.
Q. How much are you looking forward to the challenge of tomorrow?
ALEX LEVY: It will be a little bit more windy I think.  Just the challenge, it's all the years and all my career, tomorrow I will play 18 holes under and the pressure will be nice.  We practise for this moment, and tomorrow I'll just try my best to get the best score.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT