WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC POOL C: TORONTO
March 9, 2009
Joey Votto
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEY VOTTO: Disappointing. It's going to take time to recover. I've never experienced anything like this before.  
  
  Q. Where did it start to go wrong?   
 JOEY VOTTO: I don't have an answer for that. I don't know. We just lost tonight. They played a better game. They made some pretty important defensive plays in key situations, and, you know, they threw strikes and really challenged us as hitters.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you guys tightened up a little once they got the early lead?  
 JOEY VOTTO: I don't think so. I think there was a lot of guys with just, I think guys still had heart. I don't think they gave up. I don't think that there was anyone being passive at the plate or when they were pitching. I thought they just beat us today.  
  
  Q. Fair to say the bottom line is your team didn't have enough major league pitching to overcome?  
 JOEY VOTTO: I don't know. The other team, I didn't recognize any of their pitchers but Grilli, so, you know, I don't have an answer for that one.  
  
  Q. Almost kind of a surreal moment right now? Obviously no one expected this to happen tonight.   
 JOEY VOTTO: Yeah, no question. I'm really devastated. I mean, sure, it's just a baseball game and everything, but when you do it for a living, and you are playing for your country. And, you know, I was really excited for this tournament, and to leave in two games, you know, like I said, its going to take time to recover.  
  
  Q. When you get into a situation where you are facing some pitchers that you have never seen before in a one-game knockout format, does that make it all the more dangerous and difficult to hit?  
 JOEY VOTTO: Yeah, that's probably the biggest reason why last night -- or Saturday night, we had so much success against Team USA, because we've seen them on television, faced them before.   
 But, you know, you face unknowns, and guys from other leagues, guys you've never seen before, and you don't know what their approach is to, you know, pitch to you, or their method of beating you, and, you know, it's really, really difficult.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT