NCAA MEN'S 2ND & 3RD ROUNDS: SAN ANTONIO
March 21, 2014
Tim Miles
Terran Petteway
Shavon Shields
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We are now joined by University of Nebraska head coach Tim Miles, and Nebraska student‑athletes, Terran Petteway and Shavon Shields.   We'll ask Coach Miles to make an opening statement and take questions for the student‑athletes.   Coach? 
COACH MILES:   Well, first of all, I'm disappointed and I apologize to the team for getting ejected, although the circumstances were odd at best. 
You know, these guys are a great group of guys.   I think they've really come a long way.   I love coaching them, and I'm looking forward to brighter days. 
But today I have to credit Baylor for jumping out and staying aggressive and controlling tempo when they got a lead, and just hanging on for the win. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for the student‑athletes. 

Q.   I wonder if you can talk about how Baylor's zone defense gave you guys problems, especially in the first half? 
SHAVON SHIELDS:   We just‑‑ they kind of got us off the attack, and we were shooting a lot of outside jumpers and looked really stagnant and kind of lost on offense.   I think them taking away our aggressiveness kind of affected us on the defensive end.   We were fouling way too much, so they just kind of took us out of anything or any rhythm we could get going.
TERRAN PETTEWAY:   Yeah, same thing.   They took us out of our offensive flow in the first half with the zone, and in the second half we started attacking and getting the buckets that we wanted. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for the student‑athletes? 

Q.   Terran, tough start in the first half with the foul trouble.   How were you able to martial yourself and get back going there in the second half?   How frustrating was it to get off to such a tough start? 
TERRAN PETTEWAY:   I just had to refocus.   I had to sit down with two quick fouls, and then I got two quick ones in the second half.   I just had to calm down and get back to team basketball to help my team and try to come back to win the game.   But it was frustrating sitting out and I couldn't help my team.

Q.   This question is for both players.   That first half it seemed like you were getting good shots, shots that you wanted.   Shavon, you drove one time and the ball spun all the way around the rim.   Terran, you had three or four really good looks that were about halfway in, halfway out.   I guess describe the frustration you were feeling at that point? 
TERRAN PETTEWAY:   It's really frustrating when you're missing lay‑ups like that.   That could easily change the outcome of the game.   But I guess it just wasn't our night. 
SHAVON SHIELDS:   Yeah, we can't control if the ball goes in or not.   But we can control our attitude and what we're doing, and we kind of lost our minds a little bit.   That really affected us.

Q.   First, Terran, then Shavon, just your thoughts on playing the last 11 minutes without your head coach? 
TERRAN PETTEWAY:   I mean, we had to treat it the same like he was there, you know?   All the coaches are able to coach us like Coach Miles does.   It wasn't that big of a difference.   It was just a momentum change, I guess, when he got kicked out. 
SHAVON SHIELDS:   I don't have anything.   You've still got to go play.

Q.   Shavon, you guys got the deficit down to 9 late there.   What was Coach Smith kind of telling you guys in the huddle when you guys were pressing and kind of making that comeback? 
SHAVON SHIELDS:   Just stay on the attack?   Keep making plays.   Stay with it and don't quit, and I think that's what we did.   Once we got down 20, we could have stopped playing and kind of just chalked it up, but we kept fighting and got it down to 9. 
THE MODERATOR:   Okay, gentlemen.   Questions for Coach Miles now.

Q.   What happened on that second technical?   Was it a shot clock issue? 
COACH MILES:   Yeah.   Well, on the second technical, you know, the inbound of the ball, and the ball got swung around, as it was going back the other direction my assistant said Coach, Coach, Coach, the shot clock is not running. 
So I started running toward the shot clock guy to say the clock's not running, the clock's not running.   Buzz the horn.   At the same time, we foul.   Now the last thing I wanted to do was go to the foul line again. 
So I'm like, you know, the shot clock never ran.   Whatever in my mind I'm thinking that's a correctible error.   That is something we can go correct, and the official came over and T'd me up.   I said it's the shot clock; it never ran.   I was trying to look for the shot clock operator, and I'm assuming it's the guy that just dropped his head. 
So I'm getting no help there, and he had already T'd me up for being out of the coaching box‑‑ well, I forget what it was, charging him or being out of the coaching box.   I'm like I'm just trying to get the game in line.   I'm like, that's a correctible error.   He's like, it's too late.   You're gone. 
I mean, what do you do?   I mean, the shot clock doesn't run for, I don't know, 7 or 8 seconds, but I just was trying to‑‑ we had already fouled them so much and they were only scoring from the foul line.   I just wanted them to stop the game and get the shot clock right.   It had nothing to do with the officiating, and it was unfortunate because I had gotten one earlier because they didn't like me arguing a call.   I don't even recall that one.   It just felt like‑‑ I didn't want an unfair competitive advantage.   The same contact here should be the same contact there.   So if it's a foul here, it should be a foul there.   But officiating is not what did it us in.

Q.   Did the bench official give you any support, or did the bench official say anything?   Do you think he should be watching that? 
COACH MILES:   He gave me no support.   I could go on all day about the officials support, but I won't.

Q.   Coach, your players' body language at times, did you get the sense that they were getting frustrated with not getting shots to fall and everything else that was going on? 
COACH MILES:   Well, a lot of these guys, the first time you go through it, it's difficult, and these guys, see them in a home game and they're charged up and you see them frustrated and you can see it a mile away.   There is no doubt we couldn't get shots to drop.   We took too many outside shots.   We just settled for the easy outside shot too often, and then we fouled too much in the first half. 
We went to the foul line 20 times the first half.   You just can't foul that much.   I think any time that game gets choppy like that, you get frustrated, and you need to see the ball go through the hole.

Q.   What do you attribute the shooting to?   Was it nerves?   I mean, the tight rims?   What do you blame it on? 
COACH MILES:   Some of it is rhythm shots.   I thought we got some good rhythm shots that just didn't go.   That's when you've really got to play great defense.   Actually, I think their field goal percentage is only like 33% or 30‑‑ yeah, 33% the first half, but we were fouling. 
So now you negate pretty good defense and give them free foul shots.   Those nights when that's what happens when you can't control offense, you can't control the ball going through the hole, you've got to do it with great defense.   But we didn't; we fouled. 
Classic example was 10 on the shot clock out of a timeout.   Baylor comes off and Heslip takes it out.   They run a little handoff play for him right in front of our bench, and Leslee Smith just reaches in   and fouls him.   If he just hedges him, he's got them right on the corner and they're going to have to take a tough shot.   Instead we send 88%, 90% foul shooter to the line and just hand him two points.   That's just an undisciplined play.   There is no reason for that play. 
Those are things that we reverted back to old bad habits, and those are always there.   Usually under pressure, under stress, they'll creep back in. 
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Thank you; coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT