NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: FINAL FOUR
April 5, 2019
Tom Izzo
Matt McQuaid
Cassius Winston
Nick Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Coach Izzo has joined us.  Coach, you want to give us a couple of thoughts, and then we'll take some questions.
TOM IZZO: Well, it's been as exciting as I thought.
I like the new format the NCAA used getting us in here yesterday and getting to have a real practice on the floor.  I think that was -- I don't know how many years they've done that, but it was definitely since I was back here last.
The city's been great.  Everything's been great.
I got a chance to spend a little time with Chris and still congratulate him on the Coach of the Year award.  That's an awesome award and well deserved.
The hay is almost in the barn.  We're ready to go, and I'm sure they are too.
Q. A couple years ago, the NCAA tweaked a lot of rules to try to make sure we could get more free-flowing offense that worked.  This year all we're talking about is defense, and I was just wondering where you think things stand.
TOM IZZO: That's a good question.  We've been pretty good defensively, and we've been pretty good offensively.  We've rebounded the ball pretty good.  We're shooting good from the free-throw line.  So everything stands good for me.
You know, how that has -- I've been in this league so long, for us in the Big Ten, I've been at it for a while now.  There's always tweaks.
I don't know.  I mean, that's a really good question.  I just don't have a really good answer because I think it changes -- it even changes throughout the year.
I think the one thing nobody wants is a lot of fouls, and we went through that phase where it was a free-throw contest instead of a basketball game.  I never enjoyed that.
The freedom of movement, you know, is true, but I think people come to see the best players play, and they want to see them -- if they think there's ever going to be any contact, I don't know what they've been watching all their life, but there is going to be some.  It's been a little hard adjustment when you can beat the hell out of somebody inside and can't put a fingernail on them outside.
I think the NCAA or the officials have found a happy medium in there too, and we have pretty good defense.  We're going to have two pretty good defensive teams here.  Tony's got an incredibly good defensive team, and Bruce is pressing and trapping all over.  So who knows?  Maybe it will be change.  Whatever the way they want to play it, I'm going to adjust to it, complain if we lose, and be happy if we win.  It will be no different.
Q. Just a followup, Tom, to what you told us last week about your genesis in all this, how you applied to Jud and he didn't hire you, and finally you just latched on.  What is it about this business that says I just want it and I want to stay in it?
TOM IZZO: It's like even now, like we might be the only profession where -- everybody wants a vacation, right?  You guys all want a vacation.  Last week I said -- my whole thing was please let me work another day or two and then please let me work another week, you know.  We are a little certifiably insane.  That's why sometimes the game makes fools of us all.
I did go through three interviews with Jud and finally begged him to keep me as a graduate assistants.  That was interesting, you know.  Mom was mad at me because I was 26 years old and didn't have a real job yet.
The way things have gone, it's worked out well for me, for Jud, I think for Michigan State, and believe it or not, for my mom and my family too.  Everybody's benefited.  I think, if you're ready to sacrifice -- it doesn't matter if it's your job or mine.  If you're ready to pay the price and go through the process, and not many people are willing to do that as much anymore.  So I'm happy I was part of that generation in that respect.
Q. Just talk about what it's like to have a legend like Magic Johnson.  You know, he's always there.  He talks to the team before games and what have you.  And then as a second part, how cool is it that at this Final Four, you've got Magic Johnson, Auburn has Charles Barkley, Virginia has Ralph Sampson, three legends all cheering their teams on.
TOM IZZO: Yeah, and Texas Tech has a hell of a team and a hell of a coach, so I guess we've all got something.  Magic is like EF Hutton.  When he speaks, I listen, they listen.  That's the beauty of it.  And the beauty of it is he's been there throughout, I mean, since the day I got the job.  Thank God his family, his parents still live in East Lansing.
It's great to have some of your icons from the past still care about the snot-nosed kids of the present, you know.  To those guys, when Magic talked to our guys last week and he said, 40 years ago we won the National Championship, that was my first Final Four we ever went to out of college, and I said, man, we're all getting old, you know.
But for him to still have interest in the program and many of the other guys have had, it's really cool.  It's one of the things that I hope we don't lose with the changing of the guard, the one-and-done, the transfers -- all the things that happen.  I'm afraid we're going to lose some of that, and, again, I guess maybe I'm lucky that I was here at the right time.  It's awesome, though, to answer your question.  It's awesome.
Q. Ryan Saunders has said that you really kind of stepped up and filled a void after Flip's passing.  Why was that so important to you to step up?  And just how much has your relationship with Ryan grown these last few years?
TOM IZZO: It's grown.  I was with him last night for a little bit.  You know, he's so much like his dad, it's scary.  I guess we all are, but his is scary.  His mannerisms are unbelievable.  I did spend some time with Flip and Ryan, when he was out in Washington.  Why do I?  Because I was fortunate my dad lived to 91 years old, and Ryan wasn't fortunate.
But I say this.  I told him last night, what he -- I guess you feel you lose out when your dad dies at 61 or 62, and you've got so much life to live.  But he must have done a hell of a job -- I mean Flip -- because this kid has got it.  At his young age, he's got it.  Whether he can survive in this whacko profession we're in, time will tell, but I like his chances, I like the odds.  I love his demeanor and the way he attacks the game.
We're going to spend some time this summer.  You know, I love the whole family.  I got to know his sisters and, of course, Debbie.  He's just one of those guys you respect and admire, and even though we lost Flip, I think Ryan carries on the mantle of who Flip was, who he still is really, and the impact he had on the game of basketball.
Q. Tom, if people look and listen, they can still see and hear some of Jud Heathcote 24 years later.  When you look at Tech and Chris, do you see any of Bob Knight?
TOM IZZO: I definitely do.  You know, when you watch their motion offense, when you watch -- you know, we used to say that -- we used to tell our guys when we played Indiana, watch how you run out onto the floor because somebody's going to be taking a charge on you, and they did back then a lot.  Chris has kind of taken that format.
But he's a student of the game.  He's humble.  I really, as I've gotten to know him better, really appreciate how he's done it so quickly, and I guess, if you look back, you know, in four years we were in a Final Four, in three years we won the Big Ten Championship.  So not quite as quick as him, although he had a few stops along the way.
Yeah, him and I are lucky, you know.  You can like or love Jud Heathcote or Bob Knight.  I happen to love both of them, but they did a lot for the game, and they did a lot -- the game mattered to them, and I think they put out some people that became pretty successful themselves, and that's a mark of a great mentor, if you ask me.
Q. Wonder if you go back to the Duke game on Sunday for just a second.  Before their last play, you were running down the sideline.  You actually, I think, had to be escorted back into the coach's box.  What was going on there?  Was there an issue with the spot?  What had you spotted there that you were so irate about?
TOM IZZO: Yeah, as I said, I make mistakes too, you know.  They changed that rule now where they move the ball.  It's in the corner, they move it to the middle or move it up the line, and like an idiot, I kind of forgot in the thrill of the moment.  You know, I was hoping it was out in the corner, because that's where it went out, but that was totally my fault.  The guy explained it to me, and I said thank you, appreciate it, and just walked back very calm and casually.
Q. Going back to your first Final Four and now you've got eight of them in comparison to the other guys are their first time.  Do you really have that much of a significant edge considering the experience that you have?
TOM IZZO: You know, I really don't think so.  Like I said yesterday to some people, they don't let us play the game.  That's where the real experience comes in.  I told my team this morning, you know, you get this big stage, and I'm trying to tell them trust me what I'm telling you, but as I said, my biggest advantage was tickets and hotels.  Just getting my own family and their families -- I mean, we did have a serious meeting Monday, and I said, by Monday night, they'd better be done.
For the most part, we did a pretty good job.  So if that's my advantage, wow, I don't think it made us a basket.  I don't think it made us a free throw.  Definitely don't think we took a charge because of it, so we'll see if we can get something out of it.
Experience helps, but at this stage, the experiences that all those other coaches figured out how to win four games in a row under some incredible pressure, so they've done it before, and they've already shown their colors.  So I don't think it's as big as I wish it was.  I wish it was really big.  I'd feel better when I sleep at night.
Q. Tom, you have a lot of guys, obviously, back from last year, and your experience is a big part of it.  How impressed are you that Texas Tech, with four new starters, they lost four of their top five scorers, has gotten to this point?
TOM IZZO: Incredibly impressed.  I think we're hitting a new era now.  And, again, I have my opinion.  Everybody's got to do what they've got to do.  We are hired to be fired, so winning is important, and winning quickly is important.
I hope I -- you know, Chris did a great job of getting some grad transfers in there and some other people and getting them to buy into his system.  That's hard to do.  It's very hard to do.
On the other side, all those players have some experience.  They've played major college level, whether it be at some other school, but at least they played at this level.
I don't know how that works.  I've had two transfers, I think, that played any significant minutes in my career.
I'm happy for him.  I hope the day and age doesn't come where we're living on transfers and this and that.  That part scares me, worries me for our profession, but I also have great admiration for a guy who can take a group of guys that have experience, though -- remember, the key word is they have experience -- but mold them together like he has in this period of time.  I think he deserves to be Coach of the Year, and it was whoever voted did a good job voting for him.
THE MODERATOR: Right now we're going to welcome our student-athletes in.
TOM IZZO: So where are we?
THE MODERATOR: Go ahead and ask a question.
Q. Hey, Coach, can you talk a little bit about experience more in terms of players and why you've consistently wanted to build four-year players at your university versus like going Coach Cal, Coach K, Roy Williams' route and getting one-and-dones?
TOM IZZO: Let's make sure we understand, we want to get the best players we can get too.  Everybody looks at it differently.  I think you want to get the best players and make sure they have a good enough time that they want to stay as long as they can.  I think there's a lot of pressure on these guys right now and the way it is that I've had a couple of great four-year players that have done very well in the NBA, and I've had some two-year, and I've got a couple of one-year guys, and they'll all do well too.
I don't want to hold them back.  I don't want them staying for no reason.  I just want to make sure that, when they go, they're ready to go and contribute and be a part of things.  I think we put a lot of pressure on these guys now.  One thing about college, you get to make a few mistakes and still survive.  Once you get to the NBA, you're scrutinized at a different level.
So I have great admiration for what John has done at Kentucky, what Mike has done -- and Mike has done it both ways, so has John, actually.  We're not turning down good players either.  We've got some good players.  If the No. 1 player in the country wants to come, we'll make room for him.
THE MODERATOR: And speaking of, we're joined by Cassius Winston, Nick Ward, and Matt McQuaid.  We'll take some questions for the student-athletes as well as Coach Izzo.
Q. Tom, I know it's difficult when you still have two games to go, you haven't won a championship, but when you hear Cassius compared to guys like Magic and Mateen, guys who have done that, is it unique that you have a guy on a team that is so much a team and so connected, yet he still is in the same breath as those guys if you guys are able to get to the same point those guys got?
TOM IZZO: You know, I think the greatest thing about it is he's earned his way.  He's gone through the process.  He's gone through a tough year.  He's made some commitments to himself and the program.  You know, you watch the growth.  I mean, Mateen had a very average freshman year.  Earvin didn't have an average freshman year, but I remember his first game, they say he had eight turnovers and did this and that.  There's a process for everybody.
But I think whenever you're compared to people in a leadership role that have done it at the ultimate level, and that's winning a championship, I think that alone is the greatest attribute.  You know, they're all different.  One's real strong, one's real tall, and they're all real smart.  So they're different kind of players, but the bottom line to all three of them and what's made us so successful this year, winning is important, and nobody cares who gets the credit.
For superstars to handle themselves that way, I'm blessed that I get to coach them.  I'm blessed that I got to coach Mateen, and I'm blessed that I have Magic giving my pregame talk.  So I got it all the way around the board.  It's a hell of a deal.
THE MODERATOR: If this isn't for Cassius or Nick or Matt, the next question will be for the student-athletes.
Q. It isn't.  I apologize, but I'm following up.  If you can just kind of put a button on this thing about the future or the way things are now with transfers or one-and-dones, how has that changed the recruiting efforts, especially recruiting guys out of high school?
TOM IZZO: It hasn't changed much for me.  I'm looking for guys that want to be there.  I'm looking for guys that -- you know, I think it is a place in college where you're kind of like the military.  You want volunteers, you know.  You want guys that want to be there and accomplish some things both on the court and in the classroom and socially, you know.  The growth of a lot of different guys has been phenomenal.
It's not easy, man.  We forget so much, me included.  Could I have handled myself?  My buddy Mariucci is flying in today, and I think of us two back in college and the social media would have been there, if we were good enough to be -- have a group like this, how would they have painted us?  Every once in a while, I think about that, and I go, eww, wouldn't be a good idea, you know?
So I understand where they're from, and that's why sometimes we're so demanding of them because one mistake for them gets scrutinized so much more than one mistake for us.
In this era of one-and-done and transfer -- the one-and-done, I'm fine with.  The transfer thing, I'm saddened by because every year of my life, and there's some good -- we've had transfers.  There's good reasons sometimes.  I hope it doesn't get to the point where the going gets tough, let's get the hell out of dodge, you know.  I worry about that.  I think that's what we are, a little bit -- our society is that way.  It's constantly moving.  For some people, they think it's fine, whatever the rules are, I'm going to play by.
I just think going through -- as I look at all three of these guys, they've all gone through.  They didn't like me, did like me, in between, you know, and as I tell them, I felt the same way about them sometimes, but that's part of growth, you know.  That's part of the enjoyment of when you do get successful and it does all come together, man, you got something really special, and that's kind of the way I look at it.
Q. Hey, guys, I feel like, when people look at these two teams, they see Texas Tech, and they think, oh, it's the first time to the Final Four and everything's new, and for Michigan State's it's the tenth, but this is you guys' first experience.  As much as the coaches try to explain this, can you just tell us how it's all kind of new for you and how you have to experience it for yourselves.
MATT MCQUAID: Yeah, it's definitely a process.  It's been a process to get here.  It's been a tough road.  We're just taking it all in right now and just enjoying it, but at the same time, our main focus is on Texas Tech, and we're just focusing on the little things and just doing what we do.
NICK WARD: You know, kind of what Matt said.  You know, resilience got us here.  We went through adversity all season, whether this goes from injuries to just we went through a stretch where we wasn't playing well.  It's been tough at times, but I feel like resiliency got us here.  We've just got to work hard and look forward to Texas Tech tomorrow.
CASSIUS WINSTON: Yeah, it's crazy because the freshmen sometimes ask me, what do we do now or what it's like.  I'm like this is my first time too, you know.  We're doing this together.  So we've just been -- like I said, we've been enjoying it, taking it all in, and just embracing the opportunity.  That's how we look at it.
Q. This is for Cassius.  What are some of the characteristics, leadership characteristics that you have that's in common with McClees -- Mateen Cleaves that you have now, that you can compare together?
CASSIUS WINSTON: I'm sorry.  Can you ask it again?
Q. What are the leadership characteristics that you possess in common with McCeen -- I'm saying it wrong.  Mateen Cleaves.
CASSIUS WINSTON: I would say we're both winners.  I would say we both do a good job of bringing our team along, encouraging our team.  He had a really good team, but he made those guys play hard, he made those guys match his energy and things like that.  I think I do a good job of being confident and letting that rub off on my team a little bit in a lot of ways too.  So just having that kind of impact on our teams, I would say.
Q. Tom, Cassius said a couple of days ago that you've kind of accomplished all that you need to accomplish in college basketball and there's nothing left for you to prove.  Tillman said something similar the next day.  Do you agree with that?  And if not, what's left for you to prove?
TOM IZZO: Hell no, I don't agree with that.  Again, Cassius is wrong.  No, I think I talk to them all the time, and part of it's my fault because I say, you know, I've been there, and nobody can take that away from me, but my dream is for you guys to get there.  So if they get there, they're taking me along for the ride.  So that's why I still have bigger fish to fry and bigger things to go after.
I think we've talked about it a lot.  It's really ironic, isn't it, guys?  We scrimmaged Gonzaga here.  We met halfway in one of those preseason scrimmages, and I guess maybe somebody said, wouldn't it be nice to come back here?  And we almost got to meet here together again.  It's a long journey, and I will never, as long as I'm coaching, ever not think of getting to a Final Four and winning a National Championship.  Once you do it once, it's so good you want to come back.
But satisfied?  I think they'd tell you I'm never satisfied, but I don't think they are either.  I think they've done a good job.  They've taken me farther this year than I've taken them.  We've had reasons that, if they weren't good in the locker room -- you asked a good question about Mateen and Cassius.  They're different kind of people in different ways, but they both have the ability that their teammates respected them and followed them, and they both are winners.  That's kind of the common denominator to be successful.
THE MODERATOR: We'd like to thank Coach Izzo, Cassius Winston, Nick Ward, and Matt McQuaid for joining us in the interview room.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT