U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2019
Kevin O'Connell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was it like having to beat Andres again?
KEVIN O'CONNELL: Yeah, honestly kind of fun because obviously we know each other pretty well. We played each other last year in the quarterfinals, and then we've seen each other a little bit this summer. It was fun. I don't think it's a bad thing to play somebody you know. I mean, we're all here really for the fun anyway, so to play somebody you know is kind of neat.
Q. What's it like to be in one of those kind of matches that just goes back and forth the whole way?
KEVIN O'CONNELL: Yeah, it was tough. I don't think either one of us probably played as well as we would have liked. He got up early -- yeah, it was a seesaw battle. But honestly for me, I was just trying to hit the next shot well because I was really struggling out there.
Q. And then obviously it came down to the putt he made on the last hole.
KEVIN O'CONNELL: Yeah. Well, it was funny because last year on the 18th green, I was 1-down to him and made a putt of a similar length to go to extra holes and then won on 19. Yeah, I guess a little payback there.
Q. Tell me about your year overall as champion and everything that's happened to you. What's it done for your life?
KEVIN O'CONNELL: Oh, it's -- I've been able to share it with my family. I think as much as anything, as it relates to the Masters in particular, playing it -- and I think the other champions would probably say this, too, playing it one time, the taste of it, as amazing as it is, it just makes you want to do it more. So I mean, yeah, the Masters, U.S. Open, obviously. This year was just incredible. It was fulfilling dreams.
Q. And also you had a chance to make the cut at the U.S. Open, too?
KEVIN O'CONNELL: Yeah, and the Masters. I played pretty well at both, just unfortunately not quite well enough to play the weekend. But it was good to feel like I could kind of play out there at that level.
Q. I know last year you were deciding on what options to take. Have you set your course more definitively now?
KEVIN O'CONNELL: Yeah, to remain amateur and just kind of enjoy it, yeah, for sure.
Q. And what may you do other than play golf?
KEVIN O'CONNELL: Yeah, I took the year off to kind of enjoy everything, so we'll kind of have a couple of months now to figure that out for 2020.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT