XXIX OLYMPIC GAMES
August 10, 2008
Xinyuan Yu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  T. BERDYCH/X. Yu  
6-1, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Would you please comment on your performance today and what is your feeling of your first participation in the Olympic Games?   
 XINYUAN YU: (Through interpretation.) I think that I'm very lucky and honored to have the opportunity to participate in the men's singles in the Olympic Games.   
 Actually, I'm very lucky because I supplement another player who cannot come and enter into these Games.   
 Secondly, I'd like to say that my opponent is very strong and he's the first level in the world. We know that there is a great gap between me and him. So in the future, in the training, I will try to shorten such kind of gap in our performance. This is my objective.   
  
  Q. We know there is a great gap between you and your opponent because he's very strong. What do you think are the gaps in terms of the skills or techniques? What do you think is the future direction of Chinese men's tennis?   
 XINYUAN YU: (Through interpretation.) I think that there are several gaps. For instance, as far as the speed is concerned, they are faster. My opponent is faster than me. Also he's better in the service and receiving. He's also very consistent in his performance. In the whole process of competition, he dominated the competition.   
 I tried to reverse the trend. But if I do so, I will make a lot of faults. That is my concern.   
 In the future I think, since we have gained a lot of support from the tennis association of China, they have provided a lot of opportunities for us to practice. So I think that we need time to improve our performance in the future.   
  
  Q. What was your expectation and objective before the game? What do you think you performed quite well? What is the percentage of your fulfilling of your performance?   
 XINYUAN YU: (Through interpretation.) I just now have said that I'm quite lucky to enter this singles game. My objective is that I should try to have a better performance in my doubles. I will partner with Shau-Xuan Zeng, and you can see our performance tomorrow. I wish that there might be some good results of our performance tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Compared with the women's team, it seems that the men's team improved quite slowly. Maybe some think that it is because the men's team plays less than the women's team. The China tennis association has planned to improve the competition times for the men's team. Do you think such methods will help you to improve as fast as possible within the next one or two years?   
 XINYUAN YU: (Through interpretation.) I think the tennis association of China has provided us a lot of opportunity before this Olympic Games. As long as we have applied for any kind of competition, they will approve that.   
 But most of those competitions are mainly for the doubles. At the same time, China now has a lot of young players who play quite good. So I think that in the future we will expect them to have a good performance.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT