BATTLEFROG FIESTA BOWL: NOTRE DAME VS OHIO STATE
December 30, 2015
Ezekiel Elliott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Will you be entering the NFL Draft?  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: Right now I came here to talk about Notre Dame.  That's not what I'm really focused on now.  That's something I'll talk about after this game.  Right now it's really not in my focus.   
 Q.  Are you disappointed to be playing in the Fiesta Bowl, not the semifinals?  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: I'm not disappointed to be playing in the Fiesta Bowl.  It's a great bowl game.  Playing a great team in Notre Dame.  I would say I'm disappointed we're not in the playoffs, but it's an honor to play in this bowl game.   
Ohio State has played in a bowl game a lot of times in the past.  I'm honored to play a great opponent like Notre Dame.   
 Q.  (Question regarding injuries.)  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: Honestly, I really have been trying to put that behind me, you know what I mean?  Just put my focus on this team.  I don't want anything to become a distraction for this team.  I don't want to do anything to hurt this team.   
My main thing is just kind of putting that behind me, focusing on the task at hand, which is Notre Dame, coming out there, trying to get a W.   
 Q.  You always seem to be the kind of guy that has to battle through adversity.  With all the stuff happening with you, how are you handling everything now?  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: I just focus on what I can control.  I can't control what people are saying or what people are thinking of me.  All I can control is how I play, how I perform.   
Like I say, I'm not going to let any distractions get in the way of what I do for this team.  I'm not going to let any distractions of trying to go out there and get a W.  My team comes first for me.  I mean, the biggest thing for us, I think this whole team, is getting the 50th win for the senior class.  That's our main focus.  I'm not going to let anything get in the way of it.   
 Q.  You seem to be a team guy.  Michigan State happens, some comments came through.  Michigan, you destroyed them, played so well.  You gave all the emphasis to your teammates.  In this game coming up, are you going to continue that?  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: That's how we're coached.  That's the culture of this team.  I mean, honestly, I think the reason why we're such a successful team is because of the brotherhood we've established while being here.  All the guys are so close.  Every time we step on the field, we compete for each other.  That's the biggest thing.  That's why we were so good for last year.   
When you play for a purpose that's bigger than you, that's when everything is going to click.   
 Q.  How are you going to change things up for Notre Dame?  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: We're not going to change things up.  We're going to go out there and play Ohio State football.  That's when we're at our best, when we're playing our type of ball.   
We're going to come out there, play aggressive as always, be physical.   
 Q.  (Question regarding confidence.)  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: We definitely have momentum.  After Michigan, we need to surpass that effort that we put up after Thanksgiving.   
 Q.  Notre Dame is known for scoring points this year.  It's supposed to be a nice, sunny day.  Do you expect a lot of fireworks in this game?  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: Hopefully there will be a lot of offensive fireworks for Buckeyes.  The Silver Bullets, they're going to come out giving their best efforts.  I don't plan on it being a shootout, but they're a great team.  Who knows what's going to happen.   
 Q.  They lose a couple defensive backs.  Does it open up your passing game a little bit more?  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: It may open up the passing game a little bit more.  I mean, we have weapons all over the field.  We just kind of find the hot foot and feed him.   
I mean, I don't know how much it will affect the game that they lost a couple players, but we're just going to come out and play our football no matter what happens.   
 Q.  People are talking about Notre Dame being an underdog.  Do you see yourselves as the favorites?  You're defending national champs, have a lot going for you.  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: Notre Dame is a great team, they have a lot of great players.  It's going to be a good matchup Friday (smiling).   
 Q.  That was pretty good.  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: (Smiling).   
 Q.  When you think about the opportunity to play one more game for Ohio State, how special is that, to know you've had a great career, you've done special things, but you get one more chance?  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: You know, it's just an honor to be able to wear the scarlet and gray, wear those shiny helmet.  I'm honored to be part of tradition, this whole thing for the university, for my teammates, for the program, for Buckeye Nation.   
 Q.  (Question about being recruited at Notre Dame.)  
EZEKIEL ELLIOTT: It would have made my decision a little more tough.  With my relationship I have with Coach Meyer, nothing would have changed.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT