NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 24, 2000
Brett Krahn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Do you think the league is putting more emphasis on goaltenders?
 
 BRENT KRAHN: I think so. I think they're realizing goaltenders are key to any team. If
you have a good team and not a good goaltender, you're going to labor up there.
...(Inaudible). They really kept their teams in the game and they led them to the
playoffs. I think that's the key to today's game. 
 
Q. Brent, your reaction to moving across the hallway at the Saddledome?
 
 BRENT KRAHN: It's really exciting. Calgary is a great city. I love the people here. I
was extremely ecstatic when I got chosen. I almost hit the roof. It's unbelievable. I
can't wait for training camp. The fans are great. I look up, they're all standing and
cheering. It's unbelievable. Words can't describe it. 
 
Q. What was it like to have your teammates there?
 
 BRENT KRAHN: It was great. They're all great people. 
 
Q. He's got you working on your interviews?
 
 He's told me to speak slower for all you guys. (Laughter.) 
 
Q. Congratulations. It's pretty clear the Flames are cleaning house of goalies right
now. You're the guy. That must make this even more exciting. It's not that long-term, it's
just around the corner for you?
 
 BRENT KRAHN: For sure. I was really excited when the Flames picked me. I'm aware of
their situation currently in goal. I was really excited to come to a team like this. I
know they have the availability to practice a lot in the next few years. I'm going to work
hard for it. Hopefully, I'll be a Flame in the next two or three years. I'm excited.
There's a lot of great goaltenders in the WHL and a lot of great goaltenders coming up. It
means a lot, and I'm really excited. 
 
Q. Brent, there's Trevor Kidd, Ron Hextall. Was Ed Belfour your hero?
 
 BRENT KRAHN: For sure. He played junior hockey in my hometown. I wasn't able to watch
him. I knew he played junior hockey in my town and, you know, watching him in Canada and
watching him play for the Blackhawks, he's my favorite goaltender. I love his intensity,
the way he plays the game. I love his love for the game. I love the way he plays the game. 
 
Q. Sharing a facility with the Flames and being a part of the organization, do you
think that maybe the sharing of the facility is going to help you ease into the Flames'
organization more? You can see how things are done a little bit better?
 
 BRENT KRAHN: I think so. This year I really paid attention to how they worked in the
NHL and how they practiced. I took a lot from their work ethic. Knowing some of the Flames
already, I know it's going to be hard -- the guys are teaching me how hard it is to make
it to the League, how hard you have to work. I've had a great time; I've learned lots from
it, so it's been great. 
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT