NASCAR XFINITY SERIES MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 15, 2018
Cole Custer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q. You took them to school last year in this race. Do you expect to do the same thing, or do you expect something totally different this year?
COLE CUSTER: I don't really know. I don't know if you can really expect to do the same thing because things change. You know, little things that we have to kind of account for. And obviously Christopher and Tyler got to go down there and test, so I bet they got faster. But I think you've just got to work off your notes from last year and do your homework, and I think there's no reason why you can't compete for a win.

Q. Your confidence level, I assume it has to be pretty high considering what you did here last year, so just assess where your confidence is. 
COLE CUSTER: I have confidence in the plan that I have going into the weekend and the homework that I did, but I don't really have any blind confidence that we're going to go out there and be really fast and everything is going to go perfect because I don't know what's‑‑ that's just not going to help you at all. I did all my homework that I think I can do, and I hope everybody else did, too.

Q. What makes this track so much fun to race? People seem to really enjoy it, so what makes it so fun and I guess challenging?
COLE CUSTER: I think it's so fun and so perfect just because you can run right against the wall and have that risk and speed up there, but also you can have the slide jobs and the slick track and you're sliding around and you can work different lanes. So it's just there's so much as a driver that you can do to make your car better and so many different options. 

Q. Winning a championship for Stewart‑Haas, what would that mean to you?
COLE CUSTER: It would mean a lot, especially just to our whole team because as a new team last year, I think everybody had to work so hard to get to the point that we're at now, so it would mean a lot to all of our people to get this championship and bring it home. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT