NASCAR MEDIA CONFERENCE
June 17, 2015
Cole Custer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


  THE MODERATOR:   We've now been joined by Cole Custer, driver of the No.00 Haas Automation Chevrolet for JR Autosports in the NASCAR Camping World Truck Series. 
Coming off his first win of the season at Gateway last weekend, Custer looks to earn his third career victory at Iowa Speedway in Friday's American Ethanol 200 at Iowa Speedway. 
Cole, how exciting was it for you to capture your victory last week at Gateway and give JR Motorsports their second Camping World Truck Series win of the season? 
COLE CUSTER:   It was really exciting.   Definitely I was going there and I really wanted to win because I ran so good there last year.   I wanted to kind of finish the deal this year and have a real solid race. 
We definitely didn't have the best truck, but we were able to run the most solid race of anybody there, come home with the win.   It was definitely a big deal to get my first win with Junior Motorsports.   It was a great day for us. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll now go to media for questions. 

Q.   Cole, what is the main difference as far as your preparation of the cars or anything team‑wise now that you're with Junior Motorsports? 
COLE CUSTER:   I mean, definitely the shop, moving to a new shop.   It's been real good so far.   That's been a key thing on the preparation side. 
Then we have I think seven guys in the shop.   They all work real hard and they prepare great cars to go to the racetrack. 
It's not a ton different from any other team preparation‑wise.   We always do the best to make sure we bring great cars to the racetrack.   I think we do a great job at that. 

Q.   Cole, you have a win at Iowa Speedway.   How much harder will it be to win at Iowa and are you taking the same truck you ran at Gateway?
COLE CUSTER:   Yes, we are taking the same truck we took to Gateway.   We turned it around real fast.   We had to leave Tuesday, yesterday.   So definitely we're running the same truck. 
It's definitely going to be a hard race to win because, I mean, everybody is so on their game in this series.   It's never easy to get one of these things. 
It's going to be a tough race.   Definitely I've run good there in the past in the K&N car.   I'm looking forward to going there. 
Another note on that chassis, it's actually the chassis that we went to New Hampshire with and won.   Both my wins came with that chassis. 

Q.   A couple days ago Dale Earnhardt Jr. said you and your team have a chip on your shoulder.   I was wondering if you think that's the case?   Why does your team have a chip on its shoulder when you go on the track every weekend?
COLE CUSTER:   I don't know.   I think we all really wanted to go there, I really wanted to go there especially, and win at Gateway.   Except for we won that race at Charlotte, that was a real big deal.   We've had problems kind of go on in the other two races we run. 
I wanted to go there and race and have a really solid day.   But we are only a part‑time team right now.   We're only running 12 races right now scheduled. 
You could kind of say we're an underdog in that way because we don't run all the races.   But we do have all the resources.   Everything we do is definitely not like a low‑budget team or anything.   We have a high‑class team with Junior Motorsports and we look to win every single weekend. 

Q.   When you were on the track last weekend, you mentioned you weren't the fastest truck.   What were the thoughts going through your head in the final laps there with the two‑car wreck?
COLE CUSTER:   I knew we were definitely closer to the front, had a better shot at it.   Starting second, especially there, you can pinch the guy going through turn one and get a run. 
I knew we had a shot.   I think we were about even or so with the 19.   When he missed that shift, that really gave us the win there. 
As those two guys wrecked, I knew that just gave us a better shot to win the thing.   Took two key players out of the race. 

Q.   Does that give you or younger drivers maybe some confidence in future races on, Hey, just because we're not the fastest throughout the race, maybe we're a couple spots back, a never‑give‑up attitude type of environment?
COLE CUSTER:   I mean, yeah.   Definitely, especially in the Truck Series, you're never out of it.   As long as you can keep it in the top 10, make your truck better through the race, you're always in it.   Stuff happens with restarts at the end.   You always have to stay after it and try as hard as you can through the whole race. 
THE MODERATOR:   Cole, it looks like all the questions have been asked.   We appreciate your time today and wish you the best of luck this weekend in Iowa. 
COLE CUSTER:   Thank you for having me on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT