NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
June 2, 2013
Dan Bylsma
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Dan, you've woken up after a playoff loss already before but does it feel any different this time because first time you guys ever trailed?
COACH BYLSMA:   Doesn't feel better.   It's the first time we're trailing, so I think when you look at the standings board in our room and they have 1 and we have 0 it's a different look.   But we've lost hockey games in this, and we look at where we need to get better and where we didn't get things accomplished things yesterday.   And we know we've got to rebound with our Game 2 performance.

Q.   Do you see anything here between last night's game and some of the things that crept into your game last year against Philadelphia, some of the undisciplined things and emotion and things like that that kind of got into to the game, do you see any parallels there?   Are you concerned that if you could head in that direction, it has to be headed in a different direction?
COACH BYLSMA:   I saw more parallels to Detroit '09 Game 5. 

Q.   Do you think Adam McQuaid bears some of the responsibility of players? 
COACH BYLSMA:   I think McQuaid looks at the forechecker coming, besides he wants to attempt to make a reverse on the play and in doing so puts himself in that position, because he doesn't want a right‑hand shot to go back to his right with the puck.   And in doing so, went from this position to the point where Matt hit him to the numbers into the boards.

Q.   When you make a goaltending switch in Game 5 in the first round, do you have some expectation that at some point Marc‑Andre Fleury will again play goal this spring?   And what kind of factors might go into when would be a good time for Marc‑Andre Fleury to come back into goal?
COACH BYLSMA:   You asked me if I have any expectations.   I don't have expectations.   We were hoping to win eight in a row.   If that were the case, we wouldn't see a different goalie. 
That's not the case right now.   We lost Game 1.   But Tomas played real well in the game, was strong in the game, made big saves. 
We don't get this win.   So the wins and losses isn't necessarily an indicator of what we're going to do with the goaltending situation. 
But I'm confident of Marc‑Andre for his ability and confident of what he does when he gets in there.

Q.   The faceoffs numbers were lopsided yesterday.   Was your assessment when watching the game or the video that they were clean wins for Boston?   And what can you guys do going to continue to either reverse that trend or diffuse it if they're going to have success?
COACH BYLSMA:   A large portion of the wins that Boston did get were not clean wins.   They were 50/50 pucks in around the centermen that they got to first. 
I think that's something I talked about going in for our focus for our faceoffs and winning faceoffs, helping our centermen going out. 
We didn't do a good job of that.   Last night they won the lion's share of those 50/50 pucks.   And they're a good faceoff team, and I think it tipped the numbers in their favor significantly last night. 

Q.   Always in the Playoffs you want your players to raise their emotion and intensity.   At the same time, if you go in the box, it can be even more costly in the playoffs.   Is that a difficult line for players to walk?   Or how do you see that from the players' perspective? 
COACH BYLSMA:   I think the emotional level of each game is highly contested.   That emotion, that compete level has to be there.   It has to be there from our best players. 
Having said that, when you're on a powerplay and your skilled player is Chris Kunitz (indiscernible) going off the ice, it's not a situation you want to be in.   It's not something that we want to do, and I think it took away from our game.   It certainly took away from our powerplay going into the third period. 
And it's a fine line.   Their compete level needs to be extremely high.   It's going to beagainst this team, the Boston team we're playing.   And we've got to do a better job of that. 
At the same time I think our compete level has to be even higher than it was the last game. 

Q.   Did you receive an explanation on the difference between the Cooke hit on McQuaid and Marchand hit on Neil? 
COACH BYLSMA:   I did not get an explanation on either hit.   I don't know why.   I think the Neil ‑ distance from the boards is probably a more dangerous situation for James that he catches a gash over the top of his helmet and not a few inches lower, which would have been his forehead or eye level, so his helmet.   It's a gasher and it goes down there, but I did not get any information.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT