NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
June 1, 2013
Dan Bylsma
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Did you see anything different?   Was it loose?   Was it normal?   Was it routine?   Was there relief?   Was it different because of other ones you've had because it's such a long break? 
    DAN BYLSMA:   The difference in our guys today was maybe, you know, we went through the week and got closer to this date, saw it yesterday a little bit in our practice, and just today, knowing we had a game to play, get this thing started here.   A little bit of the anticipation was much like before Game 1 of the playoffs. 

Q.   Boston's style of play, what do you like about it and what challenges does it present? 
    DAN BYLSMA:   What do I like about it?   Well, I think their team is‑‑ they are a tough team to play against because they are solid throughout their lineup.   Their solid through their four lines.   I think they play a real structured game, real good, defensive game. 
    But I think they get‑‑ they certainly get credit for being that but they are also a team that has‑‑ and we have seen that for a couple years now, they do have an offensive ability.   They don't just play defense and try to win a game.   They have good players to their lineup, balance to the lineup; they have skill, the size and speed and different spots in their lineup, as well, and makes them a real tough team to play against, a real team that you know you're going to have to be a patient game. 
    It's not going to be wide open.   You're not going to break them down and get odd‑man rushes.   It's going to have to be a patient‑type game, and they have been very good at that.   We have had those types of games with them the past couple years and that's what we're expecting from them this series. 

Q.   Along that vein, is it coach versus coach in playoffs, your impression and the problems he might present. 
    DAN BYLSMA:   I have no interest in having a coach versus coach matchup outside the rink or anything.   But I have a lot of respect for the way they play.   They are very well coached; again, systematically‑wise, and how they play, responsible, not just defensively but throughout their game.   You've seen that for a long period of time from their team, not just right now. 
    There are certainly matchups in this game.   When and how they are going to matchup their defense in Chara against our guys and there's a Seidenberg matchup that we'll have in this game that we'll see play out.   More for their team and the way they are coached.   It's more about the defense, the matchups they try to get in the game.   They work really hard at it.   They are good at it.   Probably the best I would say in the league in getting that defensive matchup; getting that change in the play and getting the people on the ice that they want to in that matchup, so we'll see a little bit about that. 
    But it's not the straight matchup type of‑‑ that you see in some series or in some team versus team.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT