NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
June 5, 2013
Dan Bylsma
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is this game going to be more one of those 10‑foot games where every inch of the ice is contested for and rather than zone to zone or the horse race thing that we saw in Pittsburgh, are we looking at kind of a tight as a fist sort of a game here?   
COACH BYLSMA:   To our unliking, most of the game or great portions of the game have played in the neutral zone.   There hasn't been a lot of offensive zone play by either team in either game, and we'd certainly like to change that and get to the offensive zone a lot more and spend more time there than we have.   
You know, the neutral zone game between the top of the circles is a game we'd like to stay away from in terms of how the game has been played the last two and more in‑zone time where we need to be at our best.   
   
 Q.   As a result of the first two games, how much of that was say self‑destruction of your team versus Boston just playing really good hockey?   
COACH BYLSMA:   I think the latter half of the games was us deviating from the plan, but Boston was up at that point in both those hockey games and playing very well and getting to the scoreboard early in contests and then playing well the rest of the way, and us‑‑ the latter half of both games us looking for offense, pressing the issue, and getting away from our game plan.   
A lot of that is due to Boston and how they played and them getting leads in the game and playing very well with them.   
   
 Q.   After a team isn't successful in a game or even two games, we often hear that the talk is that we need to put this behind us and focus on the next one.   At what point do you do that and do you like to see your team do that?   
COACH BYLSMA:   You know, our evaluation of every game is pretty much the same, win or lose.   We talk about it, evaluate it and learn from it and move on to the next one.   We find ourselves having lost Game 1 and Game 2 at home, it's having deviated from not really playing the way we're capable of playing.   You certainly have that look at the games, look at what happened in the games and then evaluate where we need to get better and where we have to focus for Game 3, and that's what we've done.   
We've come here to Boston with that focus.   We did that yesterday, and we're ready to step out on the ice for Game 3 with that renewed focus about where we need to get better and where we need to be and play at to be successful tonight.   
   
 Q.   What's your reaction to the competition committee's recommendation to make visors mandatory for players entering the league next season, and is there still a stigma against players who wear visors the way there used to be?  
COACH BYLSMA:   I don't think there's a stigma to wearing a visor anywhere close to where there used to be.   I don't know how far you'd have to go back for that, but I don't think it's there at all.   A great portion of these players that are coming into our league have been in the league now the last five years grew up with a visor, had it on the American league.   It's not anything new for them to have a visor on, and a guy like our young guys who played the American Hockey League, come up to the National Hockey League, and they had a visor on there, so there's no stigma, there's no attachment to wearing the visor.   
I thought it was inevitable, and I think glad to see them put that in there.   
   
 Q.   At home your club often this year was able to sort of set a pace and dictate.   In road games even dating to the first one in Philadelphia those players seemed to be able to take a punch.   Where did that develop, and how do you think it has played into the way you guys sort of find your game later in road games?   
COACH BYLSMA:   I think you're talking about a little bit of a lesson we learned last year in the Playoffs and even in the latter half of the year when we scored a lot of goals and won a lot of hockey games, but it was a lot of 5‑3, 5‑2, get to the Playoffs and give up a large number of goals.   We went into the season with a different mindset and different attitude towards keeping the puck out of our net, playing defense.   You saw that right in Game 1, I think was an example you saw in Philly, that road game we played in Philly, and I think you saw that develop in our team really after the latter half of this season, going on a 15‑game winning streak starting in Montreal with that game, even though that wasn't our best defensive game.   
But we played a lot of hockey games on the road where we were up, and we didn't necessarily dictate the offensive zone or get a lot of shots in the game but were comfortable playing what typifies a road game and playing good defense, and that's something, that mindset I think we've talked about and something we have to bring to this game tonight.   
   
 Q.   Vokoun says he's starting so I don't have to ask you that question, but what do you want to see from him and why was the decision to go back to him, and you mentioned it wasn't his fault, those three goals in Game 2?  
COACH BYLSMA:   Looking for a solid game from our goaltender.   We've gotten that from Tomas in virtually every game he's played, a real solid performance, and he's done that for us, and that's what we need tonight.   We don't need perfection.   We're looking for a solid game in between the pipes and from our goaltender to allow our team to win the hockey game.   
   
 Q.   I'm wondering how much more of a factor you anticipate match‑ups being tonight.   Didn't seem to be much of a factor in Pittsburgh, but this is a team that does like to do that, and do you have to react in any way to that?   
COACH BYLSMA:   Their team, the coaches, matched up Chara just really against Sid and Geno, not exclusively against one or the other.   Him and Seidenberg are together sometimes but not all the time.   They're certainly going to use Bergeron in conjunction with their D pairing to get the match‑up that they either Chara and Seidenberg against the lineup they want or if that's not the case they'll get Bergeron.   So they'll continue to do that.   We're going to look for ways‑‑ it's a little bit harder, but look for ways on the road to get either Sid or Geno's line on the ice in situations where they don't have those guys on the ice.   
A lot of that's dictated by us being able to play in the offensive zone.   I've already said today that us, we haven't really done a lot of playing in the offensive zone, so it's been more to the match‑up liking for their team, whether that's home or on the road.   If we can do a better job of playing the offensive zone and making those players play in those positions and then what shifts after get match‑ups to our liking, that's what we'll try to do and try to do on the road when they have the match‑up after the whistle.   
   
 Q.   After all the talk and all that's happened in 1 and 2, is this game tonight about finding out about where your team's character is at and what it's made of?   Is it that simple?   
COACH BYLSMA:   I think there's a lot to that.   We haven't really been happy with the way we've played, and no, we've gotten off our game and deviated from it.   You know, we know the situation we're in exactly, too, we're down 0‑2 and we're challenged with going on the road to Boston for two.   We're going to find out exactly an awful lot about our mindset, our team coming out here tonight in this game.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT