NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
June 4, 2013
Dan Bylsma
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   In an effort to change the karma surrounding your team do you think it would be good to tell us who your starting goalie is going to be tomorrow night and any other lineup changes you might have? 
COACH BYLSMA:   That's great.   That is not going to change the karma for our team.   We're going to do that in other ways. 

Q.   In what ways are you looking to change your team's karma? 
COACH BYLSMA:   You know, I think there's going to be some changes to our lineup and some of our combinations, our lines.   I think very early on last night, we got behind by a goal and then the second goal right after the penalty kill, and we got off our game plan.   We got off individual games by trying to get back a goal or goals by one play, by one instance, by one situation, and it got off‑‑ got us off a path, and we deviated from the game plan in an effort to do so. 
And we have to, as a group and as lines and as D pairings, we have to get back to playing our game.   We have to get back to playing good defensive hockey, we have to get back to playing get away from the puck, and that's got to happen throughout our lineup, and I think you'll see some changes in our lines and a few guys being added to the lineup to do so. 

Q.   Can you just briefly talk about the stark contrast between this game and the last, when you went into Boston there's a situation going on in the city, a lot of emotion, game got postponed, now it's a completely different situation, it's the Playoffs.   Anything you can take from that or do you have to completely‑‑ you guys really bought into the Boston thing, you did the unity thing that morning.   A little bit different now? 
COACH BYLSMA:   It certainly‑‑ I think it is different, kind of different circumstances, different emotions into the game.   They're in a different spot, and we're in a different spot.   You know, we know the situation that we're in, where we're at in the series and what we have to do going into Boston. 

Q.   I don't know if there's a template for how to react after you lose two at home to start a series.   In general in handling your team and your players today, do you heighten the urgency?   Do you back off and try to lighten up a little bit and defuse it?   Do you treat it like just another day?   What was the general approach today?
COACH BYLSMA:   I don't think it's another day.   I think we have to really take a good look at where we're at individually and as a group and how we're playing, what's happening on the ice, and we certainly‑‑ I think we did that.   We did that, and we also have to understand where we've got to get better and where we need to get better, both individually, team and our mental focus and mindset going into this Game 3. 
You know, we're certainly‑‑ we've been‑‑ teams have gotten down 0‑2 in playoff series and come back and won.   We've had a history of getting down 0‑2, they've been on the road and we come back home for Game 3 so it's different in that regard.   But it's a disappointing loss.   It's disappointing how we played that game.   I think you certainly have to deal with that, deal with what we need to do to get better.   But we've got to focus on now going back into Boston and going on the road and winning Game 3 and getting back the series to 2‑1. 

Q.   A two‑parter, your team has talked all year about lessons learned.   I wondered how that's applicable now, and also how any lesson you may have learned from the way the goaltending situation has gone this post‑season in terms of just‑‑ the decision‑making process going forward? 
COACH BYLSMA:   We're very much along the same mindset and mind frame and where our game is at as after the Florida/Carolina game going into the Montreal game.   We've talked about it, players have talked about it, and where we need to go from where we're at now, what we saw on the ice last night. 
You know, in terms of learning something from the goaltending situation, I think Tomas Vokoun went in and won two hockey games and a series for us in Long Island and played very good in a five‑game series against Ottawa.   Last night it was a situation where I don't think through the first three goals‑‑ we're really faulting Tomas for those goals or pulling him because of his performance in that as much as giving our team a jolt and giving Marc‑Andre Fleury an opportunity to go back into that game.   I very much still feel like we were very much‑‑ had the minds of coming back and winning that hockey game.

Q.   How do you counter the frustration level?   Your forwards are so used to scoring and they've been so successful at it and a lot of that is confidence going in.   But to have them stymied by the Bruins for two straight games, how do you counter the frustration and talk to them about that type of thing? 
COACH BYLSMA:   A little bit about mindset and focus of our team, we made reference to that, where we're at, what we need to do on the ice, and we don't expect to go into a game, score four goals.   We don't think that's going to happen.   In the Ottawa series you can look back and say they came easy, and you end with five‑ and six‑plus goals in games.   We didn't anticipate that to be the case.   I don't think we're frustrated by the fact that we haven't scored as much as them getting up, leads, and especially in Game 2 getting leads, and now us playing from behind.   In doing so I think we deviate by not being on the same page with not trying to get those goals with one player and one situation.   We have to get back to the mindset that's been successful for our team and how we played defending, keeping the puck out of our net, and playing games which we've been very good at all year long through very good stretches of hockey and get back to that. 
Right now we're not liking the picture, down 0‑2.   They're in control.   They've won two games on the road.   You know, we have to now refocus.   We have to win Game 3.   We have to go in there and focus on getting that win, and that'll be our complete focus in how we get back into the series. 

Q.   You mentioned Tomas' performance last night and the hope that bringing in Fleury would provide a jolt to your team.   Can changing goalies game to game provide a jolt, and when you look at Marc‑Andre's most recent performances last night and going back to the Islanders series, how much do you take how he's looked in those performances into account?   Obviously he's performed well in the Playoffs but recently he has not.   How do you look at recent history compared to his entire body of work?
COACH BYLSMA:   We look at his entire body of work, not one instance or one shot last night that would sway what goes into how he performed or how he's going to perform in his next game. 
He's certainly won a lot of hockey games, had a lot of success in that net for us, and he didn't have that last night, but that's not going to play into the decision. 

Q.   Day after a tough loss, were you able to get a read from your team maybe on the scale of 1 to 10 where the belief is that you can win Game 3 and still win this series, and how much will you look back to four years ago in 2009 and the hurdles?   You still have 11 players left over from that team, the hurdles that you overcame in that playoff run to eventually win the Cup. 
COACH BYLSMA:   I think we as a group talked about those hurdles, talked about the situation we're in, referencing not only where we've been in the past and some of those situations but where our mindset is best as a group and what we need to do.   I think the assessment obviously, we're not happy with our game, we're not happy with how that game transpired or being down 0‑2.   But our group, I think we've been real‑‑ got refocused today, got determined today, understand exactly what we have in front of us and what we need to do.   We're getting on that plane with that in mind to go into game 3 and win game 3. 

Q.   I know you're not going to say who right now, but right now do you know who your goaltender is for tomorrow night?
COACH BYLSMA:   Yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT