BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
September 1, 2006
Mattias Eliasson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MATTIAS ELIASSON:  Yeah, it's really good to be out there especially when I've just come from three weeks off after Barseback, right after the Scandinavian Masters in Sweden, I took three week off.  One week in Sweden, played a few rounds and then two weeks with my girlfriend at Malta.  So I haven't done that much golf lately.  But, hey, it seems to work.
Q.  Peter Hedblom pretty much said the same yesterday, recharge the batteries and more enthused about playing again?
MATTIAS ELIASSON:  Probably, yeah, because right before that, I had like seven or eight weeks in a row, and that kind of    it takes a lot of energy out of you.  So, hey, recharge and come back, it seems to be the remedy, yeah.
Q.  And it was seven or eight weeks in a row, considering the way you played earlier in the year?
MATTIAS ELIASSON:  Exactly, earlier in the year I had four Top 10s in a row there.  Right after my card was done, I started to play bad.  I missed five cuts in a row.

Then I started to play a little bit better during the summer here during the bigger tournaments, but I didn't have any really high finishes.  It was like between 20th and 40th or something.  But I almost made all the cuts during the summer, so it was a good progress.  It was coming all the time.

I also had during the last two weeks, I had a really good month of training, really good.  I took my diving certificate at Malta.  And I'm so afraid of deep water, so that was a real test for me, so I feel so much stronger now.
Q.  That's one of those PADI certificates?
MATTIAS ELIASSON:  So I'm an open water diver now.
Q.  You were nervous when you started?
MATTIAS ELIASSON:  I was, yeah, you wouldn't believe it.  I refused to jump in before but now, hey, love water now.  25 metres, my record.
Q.  We spoke to Justine Henin Hardenne in the tennis world and she said skydiving takes her mind off it, and it's something, once you've done that, you feel fairly relaxed about everything else.
MATTIAS ELIASSON:  Hey, golf is nothing, nothing to be afraid of at least.  That's how good, I feel so much stronger.  Going into the weekend, I hope to just continue on this road now.
Q.  Two rounds out there, you seem to be enjoying the way the course is playing for you.
MATTIAS ELIASSON:  Yeah, I was actually a little bit afraid because I wasn't hitting my driver that good when I came here but it seems to work, I don't know.

I've been hitting a lot more fairways now than earlier this week.  You need to hit them because the rough, it's like you can't get out of there almost.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT