NHL STADIUM SERIES: DEVILS v RANGERS
January 25, 2014
Jaromir Jagr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You were out there in flip‑flops before and then you might have been the most bundled up guy out there.   Was it really cold?  
JAROMIR JAGR:   It wasn't bad.   I had some extra stuff on me.   And I wanted to just try something, how cold it's going to be tomorrow.   So I wasn't very cold.   But I got do a little more, little extra stuff for tomorrow.   But not too many, because I would be too heavy.  
   
 Q.   You've been through this a couple times already.   What's it feel like to go out there in a place like Yankee Stadium?  
JAROMIR JAGR:   It's a special place, that's for sure.   It's just hit me when we get in the dressing room, something‑‑ it's a lot of great dressing rooms but I've never seen anything like that.   Yeah, you don't know‑‑ they're so big.   You don't know who is sitting on the other side.   It's going to be tough for the coaches to have a meeting.   (Laughter) if you make a mistake, probably not going to find you in 15 minutes.   So that's a good thing about it.   
But that's a very special place, just to play here.   And I'm from Czech so baseball is not very popular.   And I can imagine for some guys who love baseball, just to be here.   
   
 Q.   (Off microphone)?  
JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, that's the first time I really had to play any game outside since I was a little kid.   But the ice wasn't very good.   
The rink wasn't very big.   They just did it for the show for the All Star game.   And it was so cold.   We played in January, I think, in Moscow.   
It was very cold.   This is like summer compared to hockey in Moscow.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned about in the locker room the pictures and the Yankees, being from Czechoslovakia as a young boy, was there any talk of the Yankees, did you know of the Yankees and the players that have played here in the past?  
JAROMIR JAGR:   During the communist years you didn't really know anything about sports or couldn't ever talk about anything that happened in the U.S. or other not communist countries.   So I didn't know anything about NHL.   Of course I didn't know anything about baseball.   Didn't really talk‑‑ but once I came here, I follow baseball.   I follow basketball.   American football.   
I've been here already 25, 24 years, I know a lot about baseball.  
   
 Q.   In recent days you've been moving up various lists of career numbers and things.   Now when you go into the Yankees room you see these legendary players, do you have any sense of what your history is going to be and your impact on this league in 25, 30 years?  
JAROMIR JAGR:   No, I don't.   I don't really think about that.   When I came to the dressing room, I took some pictures.   Babe Ruth was there.   I took a picture of that picture.   There's a lot of pictures.   I look around.   It's very special to see those pictures about the players.   You heard about how great they were.   
But myself, I didn't think about it.   I still love the game, I want to keep playing.  
   
 Q.   I know you have your game tomorrow to worry about, but I was curious if you or your fellow players were kind of intrigued by the game in Los Angeles.   You mentioned about summer conditions.   That's really going to be summer conditions out there, Santa Ana winds, ever want to play a game like that?  
JAROMIR JAGR:   If I had a choice to play here or LA, I would probably choose LA.   But nothing against Yankees or New York.   I think because I had a bad experience two years ago, I got injured in the first period, and it was the same weather, it was pretty cold.   And I think it's a lot tougher for the muscles to get warmed up.   
And I feel like it would be a lot better for me for my body to play in different conditions.  
   
 Q.   (Off microphone)?  
JAROMIR JAGR:   No. 43.   I start playing bad.   I start blaming myself; it's probably me.   Or Travis.   I gotta blame Travis first.   
Jimmy wasn't there the last two weeks.   But it's not easy for players who play with us.   They've been called up.   We're the line.   We have to score.   They've got six, seven minutes.   Next day you know they're backing out.   
I don't feel good about it.   But hopefully tomorrow‑‑ I feel like Joe is a very talented player.   I feel like he should get the opportunity and hopefully me and Travis can help him and have a good game.   It's up to us a little bit, too.  
   
 Q.   As much fun as we're all having in here, you're having out there, can you talk about the importance of the game tomorrow and the importance of the two points on the line?  
JAROMIR JAGR:   We only have 30 games left.   It's not many.   And the standings are so tight.   And any points can make a huge difference, any victories can make a huge difference right now.   And we played a big game yesterday.   We didn't play very well.   But we found a way to win a hockey game.   And tomorrow we have to make sure we play a lot better than we played yesterday, and hopefully win the hockey game.   That would help us a lot.   
And maybe we'll keep going up in the standings before the road trip.   It's going to be a tough three games on the road.   Play St. Louis, Nashville and Dallas.   So they're three pretty good teams.   So we have to make sure we get some points tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You mentioned about in Philly, with muscles tightening up.   Your conditioning or your training actually stretching tomorrow change because of what happened in Philly?  
JAROMIR JAGR:   It's not like I don't stretch or I don't warm up.   I do.   But it's just different.   It's totally different.   Even you're more careful.   You just never know.   I think the chances something might happen to me are bigger than a regular game.   That's the way I feel.   If I'm right or wrong, I don't know.   Maybe it's in my head because it happened, it happened two years ago.  
And I was pretty careful today in practice, too.   I just tested the water.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT