NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 13, 2001
Jaromir Jagr
Mario Lemieux
Martin Straka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You guys got a day off today, get a little rest? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, we had the day off today.  It's something that we certainly needed at this time.  We had a pretty tough series against Buffalo, obviously, and very emotional.  Didn't have much time to rest up before the game last night. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   They just play their system very well, and it really doesn't matter who you play against  -- against the Devils.  They all play the same way.  They stick to their system and they are a hell of a team. 

Q.  Could you please just talk about has it helped Kevin going back to Pittsburgh?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   I think so.  Kevin really feels comfortable here in Pittsburgh.  He knows a lot of the guys that are here.  He's been a good friend of mine for many, many years, and we have won two Cups together.  So, we certainly welcome Kevin back, especially after all of the adversity he's had the last couple of years.  He's been a great leader.  Kevin is always a great leader in the playoffs.  He's very vocal, obviously, and he wants to win very badly.  So it's nice to have those guys coming down the stretch.  Helps guys to make sure they know exactly why we are here.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, I think they pretty much have  -- I think it is going to help both teams in that regard.  At this time of the year, you need to get your rest as much as you can, and the games are so intense and difficult to play in that if you can get a day or two between games, it's very refreshing, and, you know, that should be to our advantage. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Well, it's Mother's Day.  So that was part of it, obviously.  To get a day off here, to sleep in your own bed, there's nothing like it, obviously.  So it's just a decision that we made as an organization to come back, and we'll be back in Jersey tomorrow, tomorrow afternoon.

Q.  Is it important that you guys throw more pucks at the net on Brodeur, whether it is a prime chance or not, just getting pucks to the net?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, I think we passed up a few good chances last night, and that's something we can't do against a good team like that.  If we have a chance, which are pretty rare against the Devils because of their defensive play, you have to take advantage of it.  And that means to have a bad angle or a sharp angle, you've still got to take the shots and hopefully get something to go in.  We need to throw more pucks at Marty. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   You know, it's something that we've done on and off this year in the playoffs, and we're able to adjust pretty well.  So, there might be a chance where  -- depending on how the game is going that we might be back together. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Just sometimes you feel comfortable against a team.  Lexi feels comfortable playing against the Devils, obviously.  He's scored some big goals against the Devils.  McKay is the same way.  He scored a big goal to get his team going last night.  He's a solid player, solid two-way player.  He's worked hard throughout his career, beginning of his career, he was more of a  -- you know, a fighter and a grinder, but now he's got some skills and he's able to use them. 

Q.  Do you think you'll be more effective with your minutes down around 20 from now on like they were last night or would you like to see them up around 25? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Well, last night was  -- obviously, we were a little fatigued.  So 20 was probably the right number last night.  But as the series progresses, I'm sure I'm going to get backup to 25, 26 minutes, depending on power plays, penalty kills.  I think so far in the playoffs I've averaged close to 25, which I've felt comfortable.

Q.  How has Johan responded to adversity? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   He's been great.  You know, obviously, we've lost some games in the playoffs, but really, he's given us a chance to win every game, and making the key saves at the right time.  You know, he's been a great inspiration for our team, to give us a chance to come in here and give us a chance to do so well in the playoffs and compete for the Cup.  He's been quite amazing for us.

Q.  You said yesterday that in some respect, it helps him not to have experience, but yet, you know, if you had the choice it would be better.  Do you think that the lack of experience caught up to him last night?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Not really.  I thought he played great last night.  Made some good saves.  If you look at their goals, you know, the second goal was a rebound from Sykora, and the third goal was a hell of a one-timer from the dot.  So he really didn't have a chance on those two.

Q.  There was a suggestion that you fired a puck in frustration at John Madden in the third period last night.  Was that the case?  Can you describe, if you did feel frustration, at not getting a shot on net during the game?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   You know, things happen during the course of the game.  The puck was laying there and it was just trying to get it deep in the zone.  That's my story.  (Smiling).

Q.  If you were frustrated last night, does two days off make that frustration that great or does it remain? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   I mean, the frustration was just from losing, obviously.  Everybody wants to win at this stage of the season.  A lot of emotions go through during the course of the game, and, you know, in Washington it, happened, when you lose, you're obviously frustrated because you want to win so bad.  Same thing against Buffalo.  But, that game is over.  That's how we look at it.   We've got to re-group.  We've got two days to get ready.  We should be a lot more fresh on Tuesday and ready to go. 

Q.  You had a chance there in the second period, did you think Lang had a better chance to your left or why did you pass up your shot?

MARTIN STRAKA:  I thought the defense was going to go down, but then I didn't see anybody.  I thought Lang was going to have a better shot from there, but next game, if I get a chance like that, I have to shoot it.  But the end of the game, I doubt Lang is going to have a better shot from there, but like I say, I have to shoot the puck a little bit more. 

Q.  Jaromir, did you turn down a chance to go out in the last minute or two of the game when the goalie was pulled?  

JAROMIR JAGR:  No, I was there probably a minute before.  Coach probably thought I'm hurt or I'm tired and give me a little bit of a break during 30 seconds 40 seconds, and then he tried to put me on the ice, but we were in the offensive zone all the time. 

Q.  Jaromir, do you have any effects from last night on your shoulder?  Were you aggravated at all? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, I felt pretty good during the game.  The last hit by Holik, I felt a little bit sore, but hopefully, it's going to be okay. 

Q.  Coming out on the fourth line last night  -- are you at the stage where you can handle the increased ice time, double-shifting?

MARTIN STRAKA:   It's not that much.  We did the same thing against Buffalo speak Game No. 7.  I'm going to be the fourth man probably once or twice during the period. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Yeah, there was a lot of discussion on the bench, but that kind of got lost there in that one-minute span.

Q.  Jaromir, Mario addressed this earlier, but can you talk a little bit about Hedberg's ability to bounce back?  You had said yesterday that he is so young, he doesn't know any better.  Do you think that will help him for game two? 

JAROMIR JAGR:  I said when I was younger, I didn't know anything about the pressure.  I didn't know anything about the playoffs, the Stanley Cup.  So, you know, I just played hockey.  I didn't feel any pressure.  I didn't feel anything.  I just want to play my best.  I think that he feels the same way.  You know, the way he played, he played excellent. 

Q.  Jaromir, you said your shoulder feels okay.  If that's the case, how come you are not shooting the puck more? 

JAROMIR JAGR:  I'm not getting chances to shoot the puck.  Of course, I would like to shoot the puck more.  You know, chances are just not there. 

Q.  Will you skate on the same line as Mario? 

JAROMIR JAGR:  That's not my call.  The coach has got to make the decision.  Don't forget, we are playing against the Stanley Cup Champions.  They have such a good system and they have such a good defense, and in the playoffs, hockey, you don't have very much chances to shoot the puck.  Just there's not that many shots during the game. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARTIN STRAKA:  Got a chance to shoot the puck, just do it.  Both cases, I shot Mario on the side and I got way open shots; that's what I try to do, take the chance and I was fortunate, lucky enough that the puck went in. 

Q.  Now, it's a question for Mario.  Can you just clarify something, Mario?  Was the team required to pay a fine or some sort of payment to the NHL for going to back to Pittsburgh for a couple of days?  

MARIO LEMIEUX:   No.  We asked permission from the League and we were granted permission to come back.  So that's that. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

MARTIN STRAKA:  Tuesday night is going to be a huge game for us.  We don't want to go back home and be down 2-0.  So we are going to regroup, have the day off today, and hopefully we'll be ready to go on Tuesday. 

Q.  Are you being held more than normal in the neutral zone? 

JAROMIR JAGR:  No. 

Q.  Just the defenses that you're facing now? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   Just, you know, it happens in the playoffs.  Obviously, it is a very tight-checking playoff hockey, and at times, you're going to have a little bit of hook-and-grab here and there.  We are just going to do the same thing. 

Q.  Jaromir, was last night an important night for you guys to break  through with Niedermayer out of the lineup, since he would probably be playing against you if he was in? 

JAROMIR JAGR:  Obviously, he's a good player, but they have got so many good players, and, you know, for one or two games, they can play without that player. 

Q.  Mario, you talked about your playing time in the series so far.  How important is it to get more minutes to guys like on the third or fourth line to balance out some of the effectiveness of the offense? 

MARIO LEMIEUX:   I think more and more, it is very important.  I think the further you go in the playoffs, and especially the definitely, they play four lines pretty much the whole game and grind you down.  So it would be a big mistake for us to go back to playing three lines against the Devils.  So, it's important to get the third line, fourth line in there and make sure they get enough minutes, rest, and have some juice left at the end. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT