NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 19, 1996
Jaromir Jagr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Do you think that your team needs to pick up defensmen before trading in order to make sure that you are going to have a good --

JAROMIR JAGR: You cannot say.  If you want to get some defensemen, you have got to keep -- if you want to get something, you have got to give something. We can play defense too.


Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)

JAROMIR JAGR: It is tough to say what is going to happen.  He is 35 years old, maybe older, he doesn't think he can win it in L.A.  Get some good players to L.A. and it is tough to say if maybe they are going to trade him, or not.


Q.  Are you surprised that they can say and do things like this to Wayne Gretski?

JAROMIR JAGR: Management didn't do everything for -- if not -- I am not surprised.  He wants to win. That is what he plays for, to win.  And their management didn't do everything for the winning.  He should.  If not Wayne Gretzky, who else is going to say it?   If he cares, he should say it.  If I would be  him, I would say it too if I didn't think management doesn't do everything for winning.


Q.  (INAUDIBLE.)

JAROMIR JAGR: I don't know if we can afford his price.


Q.  Recent reports about Mario's health in today's paper.  Has that affected you at all?   There is a story in the paper today.  He said that he was fine also, but do all the questions about that worry you?

JAROMIR JAGR: When I look at him I don't even think -- I expect him to -- I look at him, I don't even think he is hurt or something.  I expect him to play so many games like he did.


Q.  Is that anything special to you, the emergence of the European stars like yourself and --

JAROMIR JAGR: Yeah, it is nice for me.  I can have more fun; plus, speak my own language.  I feel more comfortable like that.


Q.  What is your feelings about being here?

JAROMIR JAGR: It is very nice.  I want to do some special things for the fans and show them something special.  I appreciate that they vote for me and put me in the starting lineup.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT