NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v BLACKHAWKS
June 11, 2013
Jaromir Jagr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever think you'd have a chance to win another Stanley Cup, Jaromir?   
JAROMIR JAGR:   Yes, I did, every year.   It's a goal for any hockey player, any team, before the season start.   
You have 30 teams.   They all got one goal:   to win the Cup.   They all do maximum for that.   Only one can do it.   
The next season start again, and everybody have the same goal again and again and again.   20 years later, I'm here (laughter).   
   
 Q.   What experiences do you get from the younger players now?   
JAROMIR JAGR:   You don't really had a chance to talk to them.   They know what's going on, even if you're young player.   You have to be very smart and you have to be very good to be able to play on this level.   
I think everybody knows what's going on, how important is it, what a great opportunity we have to win it.   
   
 Q.   Lessons you learned when you were younger that you can pass along?   
JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, there's not one specific things you learn.   You learn every day.   You learn more if you have great players around you who been in this situation before.   It's not, Come sit next to you and they learn everything you know.   
It's by watching you.   
   
 Q.   You didn't play the Blackhawks this season.   
JAROMIR JAGR:   I did twice, me personally in Dallas.   I know everything about them (laughter).   
They beat 8‑0.   
   
 Q.   What is your impression of their team?   
JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, when we played them in Dallas, I thought they were the best team in that conference, for sure.   They played different hockey than any other teams in that conference.   They're quick.   So talented up front, and quick on defense.   
I think it was a huge difference compared to other teams.   They're so fast and everybody can move the puck on their defense.   So we have to be careful of that.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, same like with everybody else.   We just had an interview five minutes ago.   But, you know, he's a great player.   I don't think he's getting enough credit the way he play.   He prove year after year in playoffs, he's playing his best hockey in the playoffs.   
Whole line is just playing the best hockey they play this season, so hopefully they can continue to play the same way.   If they do, we have a better chance to win.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JAROMIR JAGR:   You don't kind of realize it until you hear like that.   I watch him.   He's pretty good player.   He's pretty good.   He's going to be even better.   He's got everything what you need to be a good hockey player.   I didn't realize he was that long.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
JAROMIR JAGR:   You got to tell him to slow down a little bit, then.   He's to quick for me.   
   
 Q.   We asked him if he could imagine playing hockey at 41.   He said, No comment.   Ask me in 15 years.   
JAROMIR JAGR:   He's 24, so I would probably have answered the same way.   
But 15 years later, probably he's going to answer the same way I do.   
   
 Q.   When you see pictures of you as a young player with Pittsburgh, is that like looking at someone else?   
JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, you know, when I had the long hair, I wouldn't say it was a style, but I wasn't the only one who had it.   There was a lot of guys, maybe not that long, but a lot of guys wearing long hair, so...   
Now it's a different style.   But it's going to come back.   Everything is just coming back.   10 years later, you'll see a lot of guys with long hair (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Did you have any concerns coming to Boston with your style of hockey, the way the Bruins play?   
JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, to be honest, I was shock I was going to get traded.   I thought I was going to stay in Dallas.   It was kind of last‑minute decision from the management.   I don't think many teams knew I going to get traded.   
So when they told me that that morning, first the management, Dallas management, meet me before I talked to guys from Boston.   But they told me I going to get traded, and it's up to me if I want to go or not.   
When I talk to the boss, I ask him like three times, Are you sure you want me?   They said, Yeah.   So here I am.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT