NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 21, 2001
Jaromir Jagr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Anything you like about your new lines? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   I don't pay attention to that.  Getting ready for tomorrow.  Try something else.  It's not like I play with them before. 

Q.  Did you ever play with them together? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   No.  A new combination. 

Q.  Any combinations you guys haven't tried yet? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, there's probably some.  You know, you've got 20 players.  You tell me.  Four games. 

Q.  Any more encouraged about your chances of winning tomorrow? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, we didn't talk yet how we going to play.  Probably going to do it tomorrow.  You know, you just have to look for the next game.  That's the key. 

Q.  You said you were embarressed by the last couple of games, is tomorrow a chance to salvage a little dignity  -- might be a little too strong, but try to save a little face with a win there? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, it's embarrassing.  The last two games in a row, we didn't score a goal.  You know, if we going to play good and we lose, that's not what we're looking for.  It doesn't matter how you're going to play; you have to win. 

Q.  Are you satisfied with the effort in terms of some people are saying that you guys just look, at times, lifeless, like you're out of gas; is that fair? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   You know what, I don't think we are the worst skaters or in worse shapes.  When you put 20 of our guys on the line and two of their guys on the line, I don't think we are going to be slower.  You can say whatever you want, but I don't think so.  You know, it's  -- you just, this team build, working on something whole year, to be good in it,  which, it look like they know exactly what they do on the ice.  They know exactly one guy  -- what's the other four guys going to do.  I don't think we do.

Q.  Is that coaching? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   I'm not saying it's the coaching.  I'm saying those guys play that style for long, long time.

Q.  It's second-nature to them now? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   That's why it look everything faster because they don't have to wait for something to happen.  You just know what's going to happen.  That's why it look everything faster for them.  For us, we have to wait and then react.  They  -- they react before something happen.

Q.  Is that because you are changing your style or your systems?

JAROMIR JAGR:   I don't know why.  I've got no answers for that.  I'm not expert, but that's the way I see it.  You know, in such a hard game like hockey, that's what makes a big difference.

Q.  What are you guys doing on the power play, working on a little more rotation down low? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   I don't know, just passing the puck around, you know.  Maybe change some thing; we didn't do it before.  We didn't score a goal on power play yet  -- we did once, but the last two games, we score, it would help a lot if we could score a goal on power play.  It's pretty tough to score even goal against New  Jersey.

Q.  You've been on a couple teams before that have come back, does this team, as far as the mental makeup, is it similar to what you guys had back then? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, every comeback was different.  I was on a team with different comebacks.  I was  -- comebacks and everybody said we are done, those four games before that we play awful, and, you know, we somehow get the first win and then we  -- we play sometimes better than before.  You know, I was  -- all the comebacks, you know, we played, we were pretty close.  It was pretty close games, but we just lost by one goal, just had the bad luck, and you knew if you stick with what you do, you have a chance to win. 

Q.  There have been some suggestions like maybe that first Washington series, you should sit back and play like you did.  Would you agree with that? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   I don't know, it looks like last two years, we don't really find a way to beat New  Jersey.  They are the Stanley Cup champions, and, you know, last year they didn't lose a series yet.  A lot of teams try.  It's not easy, but, you know, I'm sure there is some way.  There is some team who can beat them.

Q.  Is it possible that maybe the more you try to open it up to offensively and open them up, the harder it gets; that you are playing into their hands when you do that? 

JAROMIR JAGR:   I don't know.  You've got to play some style.  We're going to talk about it tomorrow, and it's going to be risky because you don't know if it is going to work or not.  It look like we almost try everything and nothing works.  But, you know, this might be the last game to try to.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT