NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 19, 2001
Jaromir Jagr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JAROMIR JAGR:   Not much room.  They don't give you anything.  
 
Q.  How did the game plan for today differ from Thursday night?  What did you want to do differently? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:   I don't know, some results, some game.  
 
Q.  Are you hurting more than you are saying?  Are you physically hurting more than you are saying? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:   I'm okay.  I'm okay.  No problem.  
 
Q.  Did you think that any team could shut you and Mario down as they have done in this series?  Did you think it was possible? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, anybody can shut down anybody.  
 
Q.  Since they give you no room, five-on-five, do you think the three first-period power plays would be your best chance to get on them?  Was that where the game could have been won? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:   Had chances.  Even when they had power plays, but I'm glad they didn't score a goal against us.  It's a little frustrating for me.  We're not where we should be.  And making bad decisions, nobody support each, I don't know.  
 
Q.  That was your last game here as a Penguin, it's possible; that's kind of a tough way to go out? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:   What happened, happened.  Can't change it right now.  
 
Q.  Give any thought to the fact that it might be your last game here? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:   A possibility.  It wasn't on my mind at all.  I wanted to win the game.  
 
Q.  Was the effort there, did you feel? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:   Sometimes somebody can say  -- you don't work hard, you work hard, but the problem is, you work hard the wrong way.  You know, it just  -- cannot explain it.  Just wherever you look, it looked like they got, you know, their guys. 
 
Q.  It looked like they had Holik matched with you guys  --
 
JAROMIR JAGR:   Well, that wasn't the problem.  You know, it doesn't matter who you go against.  Still should be able to score, you know.  We make the lines.  All three lines should be able to score, so we change those lines, and, you know, Holik is going to play against some line.  The others should be free. 
 
Q.  Is it going to be tough to get a positive mindset heading into Game 5 after being shutout twice in a row? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:   You cannot look at those games, that's for sure.  There's nothing positive there.  Only one positive thing can work for us; it's done.  It's over.  Maybe we lose in overtime, it would be maybe harder.  We just got smoked.  We just got killed.  It's nobody was able, it, looked like nobody was able to do anything.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT