NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PENGUINS v DEVILS
May 14, 2001
Ivan Hlinka
Jaromir Jagr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Physical guy, and a speed guy, how are you going to counter the advantage  --
 
COACH HLINKA:   Like I already said, they have some advantages.  I don't -- haven't got the answer right now. 
 
Q.  Do you find it amazing, all of the talk about what happened at the end of the game the other day with supposedly Jaromir saying he would not go on the ice which you both said is what didn't happen, but we all make a big deal about that?  Do you find that interesting, just the way the media reacts to things like that? 
 
COACH HLINKA:   I think it's weird because nothing happened, you know.  He was it was a half minute before we called the timeout and  -- he cannot play the four minutes.  Really, nothing happened there.  
 
Q.  But you guys have had some problems earlier this year?
 
COACH HLINKA:   We don't got any problems.  If you've got players like Mario, and the open guy, you have to discuss some little things, you know, maybe they understand the game the other way and you have to discuss with them.  It's nothing.  
 
Q.  What were some of the negative effects  --
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  Well, I don't know how they are going to work.  You take the painkillers, it doesn't go directly to your injuries, but it will shut down your body.  If it was  -- I was going to sleep in and I was kind of tired.  That's the kind of effect it was, but if you go directly to the injury, like a shot, I think it will be better for you. 
 
Q.  How does your shoulder feel? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  I don't think it's going to get better in the playoffs.  I don't have much time to rest it.  There's a lot of bottling during the playoffs, and somebody is going to hit you, anyway.  
 
Q.  Do you think now, the Devils played a dominant game defensively in Game 1, do you think it was more to do you guys were a little tired; legs were a little weak? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  Well, we are going to find out tomorrow when we are more rested.  You know, they are a great team.  The lineup, they have got  -- you know, I was talking about it this morning in Pittsburgh.  They got big defensemens, and the third guy who played with the defensemen down low when we play offense, they are also big.  There's no easy match-ups for the forwards.  You always face somebody big.  And that's what makes this team special. 
 
Q.  Now they have Niedermayer back tomorrow; so they have more speed? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  Yeah, that's great news.  (Laughs).  Couldn't hear better news.  
 
Q.  Actually, about the painkillers  --
 
COACH HLINKA:   Actually, I don't take them anymore.  It hurts, but at least you know if you're hurt or not.  With the painkillers or with a shot, you find out next day if you get hurt or not.  At least I know right after the game what happened. 
 
Q.  Was it just the leg last year?  What were the injuries? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  Last year was  -- last year was shoulder, too.  Leg was two years ago.  
 
Q.  What did the shot from Holik at the end of the game do to the shoulder? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:  Well, I fell on the shoulder.  He's a big guy; he can hit.  I saw him coming.  We were down two goals, and I wanted to make a play, and it's always a tough situation.  You have to make a decision, you know, try to make the play or take the hit and get ready for the hit.  I have to try to make a play and I wasn't ready for the hit.  That's what happened. 
 
Q.  Do you feel like it's a target because they know you're hurt? 
 
JAROMIR JAGR:   No.  You just play solid hockey.  They are big guys that can hit.  If I would have a team like that, I would tell those guys to hit it, also.  That's the way they should play.  That's what makes them special. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT