SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 31, 2007
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  This is one of the few that you hadn't checked off the list, so it must feel good. 
 MIKE BRYAN:  This is great.  It's one of the tournaments where we really broke onto the scene.  Back in '99 we made the quarters.  We were stoked.  We played Boris Becker out there on stadium court right as he's leaving his career, and that's where we made our mark. 
 It's great to get over the hump.  Eight years later, we finally won this title.  It's the fifth Grand Slam, and they have that plaque of all the players right there that have won in the locker, right in front of everyone.  So you can really feel good about yourself when you walk in there every day. 

 Q.  You guys go straight to North Carolina now? 
 BOB BRYAN:  Yeah, we're meeting the team in Charlotte tomorrow morning, and we're going to do -- I think we're going to go with the NASCAR race.  I don't know if we're going to open the race, but we're going to do something up there.  I think we're going to meet Andy, James, and Marty, so it will be fun. 

 Q.  Have you talked to Andy? 
 BOB BRYAN:  Yeah, I talked to Andy a couple of times on the phone.  It sounds like he's in okay shape.  And I think he's going to start hitting in a few days. 
 MIKE BRYAN:  I think he's going to be hitting tomorrow. 
 BOB BRYAN:  Yeah, he might even be hitting tomorrow; that's pretty reassuring that he's 100%. 

 Q.  I understand Pat picked the practice partners partly to give you guys what you needed to get ready.  Can you talk about that? 
 BOB BRYAN:  Yeah, he's bringing Donald -- one of the guys he's bringing is Donald Young, who is a lefty, up-and-coming American.  And yeah, he's had some good doubles results.  So we'll be playing a lot with him. 
 He's also bringing Sam Querrey.  He called Sam Querrey right when Andy got hurt and invited him in case he wasn't a hundred percent. 
 MIKE BRYAN:  He has some options with Marty and Sam.  Yeah, the practice partners, we always pick someone -- if we're playing on clay, we pick a good grinder, good baseliner, because we're playing all these lefties.  We've got Donald, and try to give these guys a taste of what's in their future. 

 Q.  You're going to be playing in front of a huge crowd there.  When is the last time you played in front of a crowd that big? 
 MIKE BRYAN:  Well, I think Charleston was a great crowd.  I'm not sure if that was 12.  You know, obviously Seville, Spain, was just a sea of people.  This is going to be probably the second biggest crowd we've ever played in front of.  Yeah, what about Grand Slams, I'm not sure how big those are.  But Wimbledon was packed.  So we've seen it before, but it's always more fun when you're playing in an atmosphere like that. 

 Q.  What are your other goals for this season besides winning this weekend? 
 BOB BRYAN:  Next goal is Davis Cup.  We want to advance to the next round.  We've got that in our sights all year long.  Then, you know, we want to finish No. 1 again.  A lot of teams are on our heels.  And to finish No. 1, you've got to have a consistent season.  But at least to win another Grand Slam and just play well all year long, then obviously next year qualify for the Olympics. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT