TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 8, 2003
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q. Your confidence must have been a bit down after your three-match losing streak.  How big is a win like that? 
 
BOB BRYAN:  I mean, that's like a quadruple overtime win in the playoffs, you know, in Game 7.  It was all on the line, you know.  We knew we had to win that match right there, especially coming off a three-match losing streak.  You know, we have been working so hard.  We just need that little bit of luck to turn things around.  But basically the most unbelievable match we'll ever be a part of, I think.  
 
MIKE BRYAN:  I mean, hands down the most exciting, the most electric crowd we've ever played in.  We've had some nice matches at the US Open where the crowd's been going crazy, but this was unbelievable.  I mean, just the fact that what happened on those matchpoints, I don't even know what happened.  We had an angel on our back or something, 'cause that was... 
 
BOB BRYAN:  That was on the ground.  I dove.  I couldn't believe I got that ball.  That was in the middle of the point.  That's after probably ten balls I made a dive.  I was just laying on the ground, kind of just... I just didn't want to get hit.  I seen Mike back there scrambling around.  I hear the crowd go crazy.  Mike comes, all of a sudden lays on me.  Yeah, that was the most amazing match we've ever played.  
 
Q. Do you think it was also a great match for doubles? 
 
MIKE BRYAN:  If the fans say doubles is boring after watching that, I think everyone was out of their seats going crazy.  I mean, there wasn't  -- I'm sure everyone lost their voice.  I mean, it was nuts.  
 
BOB BRYAN:  Yeah, ten people said it was the best match they'd ever seen.  
 
Q. Really? 
 
BOB BRYAN:  That was just walking from the stadium to the locker room.  So... 
 
Q. What did you guys do after that second tiebreaker where you kind of seemed to lose your momentum?  It was 5-3.
 
MIKE BRYAN:  I think we lost 11 points in a row.  
 
BOB BRYAN:  Yep.  
 
MIKE BRYAN:  We just hung in there.  
 
BOB BRYAN:  It was tough.  
 
MIKE BRYAN:  We worked hard all year.  No. 1 ranking is riding on all this.  We just dug deep and this is the deepest we've ever dug (laughing).  
 
BOB BRYAN:  Yeah, I mean, we could have easily, easily got on each other and got down, just the way things have been going in the last month, you know.  It would have been easy to get negative.  But, you know, somehow we held it together.  You know, kept each other up.  Crowd kept, you know, pushing us forward, pushing us forward.  They never got, you know  -- they always were rooting for us.  They always were behind us.  
 
MIKE BRYAN:  Never gave up once.  
 
BOB BRYAN:  Kept us in there.  
 
Q. You mentioned the No. 1 a minute ago.  Did that factor into the three losses you had? 
 
MIKE BRYAN:  No, because I think one of the big factors was Davis Cup.  We went over to Europe, we were at the height of that and -- right after the US Open.  So we didn't really have a break for the whole season.  We put the racquets down for a couple weeks and went into Madrid cold.  And we were just hoping to get some momentum going.  Got some rough draws.  Indoors it's all confidence.  If you're a little hesitant and you're not seeing the ball perfect, I mean, it's easy to lose three in a row, especially at that level.  
 
BOB BRYAN:  Yeah, we saw this huge mountain we had to climb from the beginning of the summer.  Cincinnati, the US Open and Davis Cup.  Those are huge tournaments for us, huge moments.  And after we won that Davis Cup match, it was just like, "Yes," you know, huge release.  We went back to our new house that we just bought and just lived it up, you know.  
 
MIKE BRYAN:  Partied.  
 
BOB BRYAN:  Said, "These are the weeks we have to enjoy ourselves because we've been working so hard."  Went to the indoor season, got some bad draws, weren't quite ready.  It was a three-match losing streak, but we weren't that far away from it.  
 
Q. You know you're a good team when three matches is considered a streak. 
 
BOB BRYAN:  Yeah.  
 
MIKE BRYAN:  Yeah.  
 
BOB BRYAN:  Couple years ago we would go, "That's not that bad."  
 
MIKE BRYAN:  "Had worse."  
 
Q. Can you comment at all about the tour, what you supposedly signed on to do with Andy Roddick. 
 
BOB BRYAN:  Really don't know anything about it.  You know, it's still in the beginning stages, so we don't really know anything about it.  
 
MIKE BRYAN:  We actually just heard about it a few days ago from our agents.  
 
BOB BRYAN:  We would love to do it.  
 
MIKE BRYAN:  We don't know any details.  We'd be excited to do it.  I think it would be great for doubles.  
 
BOB BRYAN:  And tennis.  
 
MIKE BRYAN:  In general. 
 
Q. What does it say about your popularity that you, as a doubles team, would be part of a show?
 
BOB BRYAN:  That's a huge honor.  To even get, you know, considered for an NBC prime-time show like that is huge.  And, I mean, that would  -- that might get doubles right back there where the Jensens had it five, six years ago.  You know, we'd be really excited to do that if that opportunity came up.  
 
Q. Will you rush back to the hotel room and catch "Saturday Night Live" tonight?
 
MIKE BRYAN:  Yeah, what time does that start?  10:30.  I'm definitely gonna watch that.  Andy and then Dave Matthews.  We love Dave Matthews.  
 
BOB BRYAN:  Dave Matthews is our favorite.  
 
Q. You have the day off tomorrow? 
 
BOB BRYAN:  No, it's third on after 1:45.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT