MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
April 4, 2015
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRYAN‑BRYAN/Sock‑Pospisil
  6‑3, 1‑6, 10‑8 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It just looked like to us, I mean, you guys have won it three times, but you looked pretty excited.   Big chest bump after.   What does it mean to you to win this year?  
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah, it meant a lot.   Hasn't been the greatest way to start the year, but to win here in Miami, a Masters 1000, a tournament we consider one of the biggest tournaments outside of the slams against a team that's been really hot and played us tough over the last year, it did really mean a lot.  
Especially being from down here.   We had a lot of people supporting us.   Just exciting because it came down to the wire.   Those match tiebreakers, they can go either way.   We got off to a huge start and they started creeping back into it.   
It was a match of momentum.   We won the first set pretty easy, and they came out in the second set pretty jacked up and won that easily.  
Just feels good to get it done at 10‑8.   
   
 Q.   Was it coincidence, or did you guys feel like you needed a bathroom break after the second set to kind of stop their momentum?  
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, I mean, our bladders are usually pretty small.   Usually Mike has to take at least one a match.   I don't know, little nerves or whatever brings on that feeling.  
But, yeah, it was good to just kind of regroup.   We never use it as a tactic.   We always try to make it very quick and get back.   But it probably helped get off the court a little bit and regroup.  
   
 Q.   You guys think the doubles winners should get the same amount of money as the singles?  
BOB BRYAN:   We're very happy.   You know, doubles is doing well.   Just playing in big stadiums like this with a pretty big crowd like that, it does come down to TV.  
We're happy with the way it's going for us.   
   
 Q.   Would you say you have a rivalry with them or a growing rivalry?   
BOB BRYAN:   Well, yeah, now we've played them four pretty big matches.   We've played teams as much as 20 times, 25 times, so the rivalry is young.   But if we keep meeting in finals...   
They're going to be seeded No. 2 now with those big results.   When we meet it'll be in big matches, and that can only add to a nice rivalry.  
   
 Q.   Are you allowed to get mad at each other during the match?  
BOB BRYAN:   We do get mad at each other.   We try to hide it as much as we can.  
In the biggest of the matches we usually try to shut up because we play or best when we're helping each other out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT