SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 12, 2014
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRYAN‑BRYAN/Benneteau‑Roger‑Vasselin
  6‑3, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   I'd like to ask both of you, just now I tried to sum up everything and I found this seems to be the 102nd title you have ever won in a tournament.   How is this championship different from the previous 101 championships?   The other question is, the competition lasted for 1 hour and 12 minutes.   Was it an easy win?   
MIKE BRYAN:   We're very happy to win here in Shanghai.   This is obviously a very prestigious event, one of the Masters Series 1000 events on tour.   Everyone was here, all the top teams.   
To win here, it's been a long time coming to Shanghai.   To finally get across the finish line as the winning team was extra special today.   
It wasn't an easy victory.   It was straight sets, but as you saw at the end, it was a tiebreaker.   It got a little sticky.   Bob served for the match.   They hit some great shots.   
You know, they're Grand Slam champions, a really good team we played many times before.   It just came down to a few points.   I thought maybe we played better on some breakpoints, some bigger points.   
   
 Q.   Bob, just talk about this milestone.   You've now won all current Masters 1000s.   I don't know if there's anything left to achieve.   How much does it mean to you?   
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, this obviously means a lot.   We'd won the previous nine, then the city moved, so we had to win the current ones.   
I don't think these cities are going to last forever.   I hope they do, because if they move, we're going to have to start over (smiling).   
You know, it's another great milestone.   This week was full of them for us.   Winning our 900th match was awesome to do that in our first round.   We were really gunning for that.   That spilled over to clinching No.1, which is our goal to start any season.   That's our biggest goal.   
Then to come and get in the title match, have a shot at winning the tournament that's eluded us, complete the Golden Masters, is amazing.   
It was really the last thing left for us to do.   We can definitely shut it down today and be happy guys.   But that's not in our nature.   We're really never satisfied.   I know come next week when we start practicing again, we'll shift our focus to Paris.   I know we'll be really disappointed if we don't get over the final hurdle there.   
We'll enjoy this today and start working hard at the next goal.   
   
 Q.   The year‑end championship, that's important to you as well?   
MIKE BRYAN:   I mean, London is the last tournament of the year.   It's the showcase for doubles with the top eight squads competing.   If you don't do well, it leaves a bad taste in your mouth during the off‑season.   
You want to finish the year strong, put a cap on a successful season.   We've won it three times.   It does make for a sweet couple months.   You're in a better mood in the off‑season when you win in London.   
That is a venue that's extra special.   Playing in the O2 arena is probably the premiere place to play doubles.   We want to bring our good stuff in London and try to finish on top over there.   
   
 Q.   Time for a bit of a celebration in Shanghai before you fly out?   Do you have something planned?  
BOB BRYAN:   Maybe this beer, I don't know.   What's it doing up here (smiling)?   
We're actually flying out in a few hours, so we don't have a lot of time to get crazy.   
MIKE BRYAN:   One more jam session, one last good meal in the restaurant.   
BOB BRYAN:   Our locker room on that hallway is really banged up.   We're definitely going to need 45 minutes to put that thing back together.   
Yeah, going to turn it around, get home.   I think we leave at 9:35 tonight and get home at 6:00.   We get in a time machine and gain a few hours.   
   
 Q.   I heard you have a great band.   What did you write on the camera after your win?   
MIKE BRYAN:   Hi, Bobby Jr.   That's Bob's son.   
   
 Q.   Will you let him play tennis?  
BOB BRYAN:   Well, the first question was about the band.   You said we were really good.   So thank you.   The record sales don't reflect that, but we appreciate that.   We're always working hard on our music.   We love to play.   It's our passion.   So thank you.   
But, yeah, I want my kids to play the sport.   It teaches you a lot of life lessons.   It's a great lifestyle.   It's a healthy sport.   I definitely want them to play in college.   For us, that was the most fun we've really had in tennis, was playing for a team.   
So I'm going to do everything I can to help them fall in love with the game.   Hopefully it just drives themselves after they fall in love.   
   
 Q.   How about your Chinese fans?   
MIKE BRYAN:   We love our Chinese fans.   We're lucky to have a few in the room.   
   
 Q.   I saw a picture on Instagram.   
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah.   We want to thank you for all the nice gifts that you gave us at the hotel, at the practices, taking pictures with you guys.   Thanks for keeping in touch the whole year basically.   
You guys are diehard supporters of us and we really appreciate the support.   
BOB BRYAN:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT