WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2014
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BRYAN‑BRYAN/Sock‑Pospisil
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   No. 99 here for the Bryans, 6th of the season and 5th here in Cincinnati.   Well done. 
Ben, want to start us off.

Q.   99; how does that feel?
BOB BRYAN:   Feels good to get closer to 100.

Q.   Having the 100 at the US Open, people were looking at that like...
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, that would obviously a dream come true to knock down 100 for arguably the biggest tournament for us of the year.
We'll be gunning for that for sure.   Not just because of milestone but just because it's insane to win another one of those. 
We haven't won a Grand Slam this year.   We've won a slam every year for the last nine or ten years, so to do that would make for a really sweet year.

Q.   You obviously played them at Wimbledon and they won.   Were you anxious to get a shot at them again here in the final? 
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah, I mean, it was obviously fun to play those guys again.   Wimbledon was such a great match going down to the wire 7‑5 in the fifth.   We weren't look at it as a revenge thing.   Just another shot to win a title here in Cincinnati against a great team, against a really hot team. 
That's the first match they've lost, so it's a very impressive run by them.   This is kind of going to jump start our summer hopefully.   We've had a couple rough weeks, so to get some confidence going into the Open is what we need.

Q.   Midway through the second set there was a 15‑All point and you guys hit about five lobs.   Was that strategic or...
MIKE BRYAN:   Desperation.
BOB BRYAN:   It wasn't too strategic.   We were just clawing to stay in the point.   We've been doing that our whole career.   We usually have one or two of those points in every match.   We were big time lobbers in the juniors, so we still have that feel after all these years.   You know, to chuck it up in hopefully the...
MIKE BRYAN:   Up in the clouds.
BOB BRYAN:   And make them think about it a little bit.   But, yeah, I mean at Wimbledon, like Mike said, it was a great match.   We got to play against them for four hours and we learned some stuff.   Came up with a little better game plan this time. 
I'm sure they'll adjust for the next time we play them.   That's just the cat and mouse that you get on the doubles tour.   When the play these teams so many times, you got to coming up with new wrinkles to the plan.

Q.   What did you guys do well today? 
BOB BRYAN:   I mean, he only lost one point on his serve all match. 
MIKE BRYAN:   Probably the biggest difference was the way I served.   I thought I served a better match today than I did at Wimbledon.   I made a lot of first serves and just put a lot of pressure on their returns. 
Yeah, for me to only lose one point on my serve all match, that's career match serving for me.   I don't think I've been that successful with my serve. 
But, yeah, got in a lot of return points, too.   Did everything well.   We were sharp in all categories, I think.   Through the whole week we came out of the gates and played a good match against Butorac‑Klaasen who beat us twice this year. 
Just happy with our play this week.

Q.   In your whole career, a lot of doubles teams change as a result of partnerships, injuries, and whatever.   You've played against almost everybody.   Who were your toughest opponents?
MIKE BRYAN:   Played Daniel Nestor 52 times and we're 26 and 26.

Q.   Whoa. 
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah.   He's been on tour since we turned pro, so last 16 years.
BOB BRYAN:   He seems to be the constant.   He switched partners three times and won Grand Slams with each of those partners.   Knowles, Zimonjic, Mirnyi. 
So doesn't matter who he plays with, he's always in the mix.   He's turning 42 at the Open this year.   We're hoping he's thinking about retiring, but I think he loves it too much.   We got to outlast that son of a bitch, though.   (Laughter.)

Q.   There has been some talk about the Davis Cup lineup for September.   There is not a lot of clarity on the second spot there.   Obviously you guys have been stalwarts there.   You take up two out of four spots on the roster.   What do you think the team should do going forward if there isn't somebody who is a clear‑cut No. 2?
BOB BRYAN:   In the past, I know 2003 Patrick had a few guys show up for the week that kind of played for the spot.   You know, you see who's playing better ball with the actual ball and the surface.
I could see Courier doing that.   Maybe bringing Sock, who I know would be excited for the opportunity.   He's played well in some big moments. 
Querrey has all the experience and the big serve.
Then there are other guys.   Donald Young and other guys in the mix.   I guess whoever has the best Open, I would say just ship them all to Chicago and let them play a few days. 

Q.   You played Davis Cup a lot of years.   Was wondering, each of you individually, what best memories were. 
MIKE BRYAN:   We've had a lot of good memories playing Davis Cup.   Started in '03.   I think looking back, the one moment that we treasure is that 2007 win in Portland and beating Russia. 
It's been amazing playing some of these home ties.   Charleston was cool.   Playing 2004 the semis, it was special atmosphere.
Each one is different.   Each one we treat kind of like a Grand Slam.   It's such a big opportunity for us.   I think 26 ties.   It's cool.   I mean, Chicago will be fun.   It's to qualify for the World Group, so it's kind of a must‑win for the U.S.
We'll be coming out fired up for that.

Q.   You guys play more fan‑friendly tennis.   In general, do you think that that would help the game of doubles?
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, I think it could be.   You know, obviously there is the tradition of Wimbledon, quiet and being respectful. 
Then there is the other side, is which is US Open night matches, which are crazy.   They've experimented with music in between points in WTT and having fans close to the court, and I think that's a very successful kind of sample.
Yeah, I mean, for doubles, we're just trying to increase exposure, and tinkering with more exciting formats would be more beneficial I think.   We could try it out in doubles see how it transfers over to singles.
We're willing to try anything to build the doubles game.

Q.   You're out on the outer courts a fair amount when there is loud music.   Does that bother you?
MIKE BRYAN:   I don't mind it when there are fans walking behind the court.   A lot of times we're playing matches and there is a live interview on the stadium. 
I mean, everyone is good enough to block that stuff out.   I think if it's better for the fans, grows the game, it's all positive.

BOB BRYAN:   We've talked about that a few times for doubles, just having open seating.   Let people walk whenever they want during points, let them talk.   So, I mean, I know that's on the table.   We'll see.

Q.   It wouldn't disrupt you guys?
BOB BRYAN:   I'm a little bit more traditional.   For some reason I see people walking all over.   I'm aware of the surroundings, so it would take a little while to get used to for me. 
This guy can just...
MIKE BRYAN:   We do it in practice and it's fine.

Q.   You mentioned outlasting Nestor, but how many more years do you think you'll play?
BOB BRYAN:   It's tough to put a cap on this career.   We're still having fun.   That's the biggest thing.   We're having fun, it's a great job, we're making a living and getting to travel all over the world. 
I know veterans that have retired always tell us, Guys, keep doing it.   I retired too early.   I wish I would still‑‑ there is no better gig than this.
MIKE BRYAN:   Once you're done, you're done. 
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah.   It's hard to turn it back on.   We've been looking at Rio, so we can see the finish line.   Who knows.   We might blow past that. 

Q.   Random question:   You guys ever think about how hard it would be to be a line judge?
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah, it's a very unforgiving job.
BOB BRYAN:   Thankless job.
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah.   You make a thousand right calls in a row, and you make one bad one and you got a player breathing down your neck, you got fans whistling, and then you got the Hawk‑Eye proving that you screwed up.   And it's on TV sometimes. 
So, yeah, you got to keep your concentration for the whole match.   You look at that line and you just zero in on it and don't make a mistake. 
But I know a lot of these‑‑ you know, they seem like they're having good, fun year.   They travel the world and do it. 
But I don't know.   I don't know if I would like that job.
BOB BRYAN:   We're on a first‑name basis with Fergus Murphy, all the guys that have been around forever.   We talk to them all the time in the cars and the elevators.   You know, we all have a great relationship.
Yeah, we have it out in our moments on the court, but seem to be able to put it behind us.
Like Fergus last week, we got into some real crap with him out on a side court in Toronto.   We've had him on two of our matches this week and it's just like back to... 
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah, he's got thick skin.

Q.   In your entire career your opponents won the set 6‑0 against you only three times.   Do you remember when that happened last time?
MIKE BRYAN:   Yes.   One time here in Cincinnati we lost to Kubot‑Marach.   We won the match.   Then one time at the Aussie Open we lost to Hutchins and Fleming. 
BOB BRYAN:   Second set 6‑0 on what's that arena back in the back? 
MIKE BRYAN:   Hisense.
BOB BRYAN:   And the third time?   What year was it? 

Q.   I don't remember, but very early. 
BOB BRYAN:   Could have been when we were coming out of college. 
MIKE BRYAN:   Was it Nestor?   Do you know this? 

Q.   No, I forgot.   Other than that match with Kubot.   He was close to crying after he... 
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, that guy was seeing it huge.   Was it 6‑0, 2‑0? 
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah.   They were up a set and a break. 

Q.   One last question about the line judge.   You ever tried doing it like during practice?
MIKE BRYAN:   I always call Bob's foot faults.   Yeah, we make sure we keep it honest.
BOB BRYAN:   I think it's tough, you know.   Those serves are coming in over 130 and the ball is a blur.   So, yeah, I feel...
MIKE BRYAN:   I'm wrong a lot.   I mean, I see with my heart more than my eyes sometimes.   But, yeah, you got to be good.   You got to be decisive.   You can't waiver with your decision. 
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah. 
MIKE BRYAN:   I don't know if I would want to do it.
BOB BRYAN:   Nope.   I've never line judged and never strung a racquet.   Never learned how to string a racquet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT