CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2012
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRYAN‑BRYAN/Berlocq‑Istomin
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in Chinese, please.   
   
 Q.   The combination of doubles who have the largest amount of Grand Slam titles, you also got the China Open title and also US Open.   Do you have further expectation for next season?   
BOB BRYAN:   I mean, our expectations and goals for each year is to finish No. 1.   I feel like we're at the peak of our career.   You know, every time we step on the court we feel like we have a great chance to win the match.   So we're going to continue trying to win big tournaments and try to finish the year No. 1.  
Obviously we have a lot of confidence right now.   We have had an incredible summer, a great run, one of the best runs of our career.   We're feeling very good.   
   
 Q.   First of all, congratulations.   What kind of preparation do you have for the upcoming Shanghai Masters Cup?   Because you fail to reach title in Shanghai.   And what happened in the restaurant lounge for the players after the match?  
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah, I mean, our preparation was playing here and winning here.   So I think we have the best preparation possible.   We're going in there really confident.  
We're hoping to put a good performance in in Shanghai.   We have never won there, as you said.   We'd love to do that.   We have played there I think since 2005, right?   
So, yeah, that's one of the tournaments we want to check off our list.   
   
 Q.   Actually, why did one of you shave and one didn't?   Are you going for more easy recognition for somebody else?   What might have been the reasons?  
BOB BRYAN:   I brought my razor and Mike left his at home.   He left his razor at home.   I don't know.   Maybe that's just his Asian look.   (Laughter.)  
MIKE BRYAN:   I think it's a good look.   It's very GQ.   
BOB BRYAN:   I think you're trying to be scary with that look.   
MIKE BRYAN:   A little bit of superstition, too.   You win a match, you haven't shaved, you can't shave.   If you guys go to Shanghai, it will be looking pretty bad.   (Laughter.)  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   I want to talk a little bit about your opponents.   Can you tell me about Denis and Carlos and their run to the finals, even though they had never played together before?  
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, they're incredible ball strikers.   This is the way that doubles has kind of gone in the last seven years.   You see a lot of players staying on the baseline ripping, serving big, you know, hitting with a lot of racquet speed.   
You know, technology has gotten pretty advanced where, you know, you can swing as hard as you can and the ball dips in.     It's very challenging for a lot of the doubles players, you know, to catch up with that speed.   So the singles guys are being more and more successful.  
But we served big.   We've played teams like that before.   We have a great coach that gives us an excellent game plan for every match.   We went out there and we just executed it to a T.  
Yeah, I mean, we're not super scared when we play teams like that.   It's just a different mental approach.   You have to be very aggressive and, you know, try to take it to the net guy and expose some of their weaknesses because their weaknesses aren't from the ground.   
   
 Q.   This is your third time winning here in the China Open.   How do you feel about that?  
MIKE BRYAN:   I feel really good about that.   You know, I think it all started for us back in 2008, getting the bronze medal.   We have had just great feelings when we come to Beijing.  
You know, the fans are super passionate.   They're some of the best fans in the world.   They're meeting us at the airport, at the hotel.   They're great.   We like playing here.   This is, you know, a first‑class tournament.   It almost feels like a Grand Slam with a tough field.   We're super excited to win here.  
   
 Q.   This is a question for Mike.   With the win today, you now have "the" most doubles titles in history.   Can you tell me a little bit about that, how you feel reaching that milestone?  
MIKE BRYAN:   I'm surprised you knew about that.   No one from the ATP knew.  
It feels unbelievable.   It's hard to fathom that I get to 84, you know, but it's a great record to hold.   I'm sure Bob's going to catch me here pretty soon.   He'll probably play a few extra tournaments.   
BOB BRYAN:   I doubt it.  
MIKE BRYAN:   It's obviously an honor to hold this prestigious record. There are some incredible names towards the top of this list and it's humbling to be in such elite company.   Huge props must go out to Todd Woodbridge who epitomized class and excellence on and off the court.   
So to be up there with those guys is an honor, and we'll see if I can get a few more.   If I stop today, that was a pretty good career.  
BOB BRYAN:   If you stop today, I'll catch you for sure.   (Laughter.)  
   
 Q. We all know that you two are not only talented tennis players but also talented musicians.   Any plan to hold a little music show again here in Beijing?   If yes, are we all invited?   
BOB BRYAN:   Not in Beijing, not this year, because we're leaving for the airport in an hour.   It would have to be really quick.   
As you said, we love to play music.   It's really where we spend all our time off the court.   You know, I spend it with my family obviously now, but jammin' the music room, it's one of our off‑court passions.   
If Shanghai has a stage and has instruments, we'll be up there.   We have had some of our best gigs of our career in Asia.   The fans, they seem to like our music over here, which is awesome.   I mean, we feel like the Beatles when we play here.   They don't know what we're doing, but they clap.   (Laughter.)   It's fun.   
   
 Q.   You're brothers and Williams sisters are very, very successful tennis players in the USA.   Can you talk about state of tennis in your country?   
BOB BRYAN:   The state of tennis in our country?   Is that what you said?   
Yeah.   I mean, we were very spoiled in the '90s to have such great champions like Agassi, Sampras, Courier, and Chang, and tennis has become a more global sport.   There's countries like Serbia that have incredible players and, you know, just more countries competing at a high level.  
So I think the U.S. has a bright future.   John Isner can definitely contend for a Grand Slam with his game and his height, his serve.   We have young players like Ryan Harrison that could make an impact in recent years.   
So we'll see.   I mean, we'll see how it goes.   I mean, we have a lot of money being spent on junior programs.   It's just hopefully ‑‑ the top players, they're pretty greedy.   You know, they steal all the titles ‑ Roger Federer, Djokovic, Murray, and Nadal ‑ so when those guys step down, maybe you'll see the young guys take charge.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT