LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
August 3, 2012
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BRYAN‑BRYAN/Benneteau‑Gasquet
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How excited are you? 
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah, we're pretty excited.   We're leaving the Olympics with a medal, which is awesome.   I got mixed later, Bob has the afternoon off.   But to play for a gold medal, it's special.   It's going to be fun.   So we're going to go out there and give it everything we got.   Could be our last shot at an Olympic medal, so we're going to put it on the line. 

Q.   Your thoughts, Bob? 
BOB BRYAN:   We're coming off the court right now.   It's all sinking in.   We're enjoying that victory.   It's a tough team against two great ball‑strikers. 
We served well, played good grass court doubles.   Tomorrow is going to be pretty insane.   Like Mike said, this could be our last shot at Olympic glory. 
I'm very happy we do have a medal because semifinals is no guarantee that you're leaving with the hardware.   That's great.   We're going to enjoy it for a little while.   Once we have opponents, we'll get a game plan ready and go to work. 

Q.   Where would it rank? 
BOB BRYAN:   Every sportsfans in the world knows what an Olympic medal is.   Not everyone knows what a Wimbledon title is.   That would be the front of the trophy case, for sure. 

Q.   Whoever you play in the final are predominantly singles players combined as a doubles team.   Does that help you? 
BOB BRYAN:   Sometimes it can help, sometimes can hurt.   These singles players are incredible ball strikers.   Tsonga and Llodra are big‑serving guys.   It's going to be a tough break any way you look at it. 
Probably the serves you'll have the most looks at is David Ferrer, but he hits groundies better than any of us, so...   It's a challenge anyone we play. 

Q.   Talking about two singles players, we saw two singles players win the doubles gold in Beijing. 
MIKE BRYAN:   Yeah, it shows that they can make great teams.   They're always a little looser when they have the singles to fall back on.   Yeah, they come in, they're eager.   You saw with Federer and Wawrinka how good‑‑ they get a couple matches under their belt, sharper doubles, they're rough. 
These guys are both going to be playing great tomorrow.   Llodra we played a million times.   Haven't played Ferrer a ton, but we've seen 'em all.   We have some good stuff. 

Q.   Will there be nerves? 
BOB BRYAN:   There's always nerves.   There's nerves in this match just serving it out.   You're thinking about the medal.   We're all human out here. 
It's a huge opportunity.   There will definitely be nerves.   It's just how you manage them and how you deal with them sometimes.   We've been so nervous that we've played poorly, and sometimes the nerves can add to an adrenaline rush that could bring out the best in you.

Q.   Watching the Olympics when you were kids, who do you remember? 
MIKE BRYAN:   I just remember the Dream Team.   Those were the guys we loved watching, basketball, guys like Jordan. 
BOB BRYAN:   Michael Johnson was sweet.   Carl Lewis, yeah. 
MIKE BRYAN:   Michael Phelps has 20 medals.   I would love to have 20 shots at a medal. 

Q.   Tomorrow will be your last shot at a gold. 
BOB BRYAN:   We talked about going to Rio.   We want to extend our career another four and go out. 
MIKE BRYAN:   We said if we play a day past Rio, we're going to shoot each other.   But that's our goal.   We talked about it about a month ago.   It would be a nice way to finish, in Rio.   Stay healthy and see what happens. 

Q.   Can you talk about your preparations for tomorrow.   Once the matches are out of the way tonight, when are you going to start thinking about the match? 
BOB BRYAN:   Our coach's job is to go watch that match.   He's going to be writing down stuff.   We always talk about the opponents the day of.   He'll talk about it right when we arrive on‑site.   We'll tailor our practice and warmup to how we're going to play in the match and go over it again right before the match. 
I'm going to enjoy it.   I'm going to go ride the bike, do some gym.   He's going to eat some food, get ready for the mixed.   We'll start the sleepless night later (laughter). 

Q.   Any messages from Mardy or Andy? 
MIKE BRYAN:   I talked to Jim Courier yesterday.   They're all supporting us.   A lot of texts, a lot of emails from our boys back home.   Sure we'll get some from Andy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT