AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2012
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRYAN‑BRYAN/Lindstedt‑Tecau
  4‑6, 6‑3, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Dicey there?   I know you fought off at least one match point.   
MIKE BRYAN:   We fought off one at 5‑6 on Bob's serve.   The breaker was just about over at 5‑2 them serving up two mini breaks.   Bob reflexed an unbelievable shot to get to 5‑3.   
BOB BRYAN:   It was a blur from there.   
MIKE BRYAN:   Kind of went quick.   
I think we maybe got a little lucky, too.   Played kind of our best tennis at the very end.   They're a big‑serving team.   It's tough.   I thought they played well.   We played them before.   That's definitely they've played against us.   They weren't nervous.   
Yeah, I think they're the most improved out on tour, too.   They work pretty hard.   They're getting better.  
   
 Q.   You're on the cusp here of setting another record.   Have you seen the Woodies?   
BOB BRYAN:   We've been passing them in the locker room.   We always have good chats with those guys.   I think Todd watched the end of our match.   On the way to the locker room, he said, That was an incredible reflex volley.   
They've always seemed like they've been happy for us and our success.   They seem very secure with their own achievements and career.   They've had an amazingly decorated history on the court.   They have nothing to fear.   
MIKE BRYAN:   Once you're in the Hall of Fame...   
BOB BRYAN:   ...you're good.   
   
 Q.   Do you have any aftereffects from the late‑night match?  
MIKE BRYAN:   We didn't get a ton of sleep after that.   Probably went to bed at 4:30, got five hours.   Woke up around like, yeah, 9:30.   
But, yeah, it was tough to sleep last night because we were used to being up.   I didn't sleep the best the last couple nights.   
BOB BRYAN:   Didn't play a part in the match.   
MIKE BRYAN:   We took the whole day off yesterday.   Didn't touch the racquets.   
   
 Q.   I hear you are reading a book about the Warsaw uprising.   Did you find it interesting?  
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, I did.   I read Winds of War.   I'm a big history guy.   My dad majored in history in college.   He's red every Civil War book and World War II book written.   He gave me that one.   Said it was his favorite.   
The beginning of the book starts off with the invasion of Poland.   I thought it was very interesting.   I learned a lot from that.   
MIKE BRYAN:   When did you read that?   
BOB BRYAN:   Maybe last year, two years ago here in Australia.   That was the last book I read (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Down to the wire with the baby.   
BOB BRYAN:   She's on bedrest now.   She's not getting out of bed.   We're down to the finish line.   It's crunch time, yeah.   She turned it off in the third set because she was starting to feel a couple small contractions.   
   
 Q.   Are you serious?   
BOB BRYAN:   She turned it off.   I've been telling her, Don't watch the matches; it will get your heart rate going and you might spit that baby out.   
It's going to be tight the next couple days, especially with the nerves.   She's not getting out of bed.   She can see the finish line.   She knows she's a few days away from me coming home.   She's not going to risk it, not now.   
   
 Q.   She won't watch the final?   
BOB BRYAN:   I don't think so.   I'm recommending she doesn't.   
   
 Q.   That's her due date?   
BOB BRYAN:   Her due date, yeah, is on Saturday.   She's getting big, man.   She's huge.   She showed me her stomach.   It doesn't even look human.   This thing, I don't know how it's staying in there.  
   
 Q.   Not twins in there?   
BOB BRYAN:   I would be surprised if there wasn't twins in there.  
   
 Q.   Are you on pins and needles?   
BOB BRYAN:   No, I'm feeling pretty good.   She's been so happy and supportive of what we're doing.   That makes it really easy.   It's going to be a war zone in that room when that baby's coming out.   
I'll psych up on the plane ride home.   
   
 Q.   Bob, do you confirm you won't be in Switzerland for the Davis Cup?   
BOB BRYAN:   Yeah, I'm not going to be there for that tie.   
   
 Q.   Mike, how much do you think you lose when you don't play with your brother?  
MIKE BRYAN:   Obviously I'm going to miss Bob.   I'm most comfortable playing with him.   Yeah, it's just second nature.   
Probably going to lose a little power.   But, you know, Mardy and John Isner, whoever is on the team, they can play doubles.   So it's a challenge to suit up with one of those guys.   
I'm not sure who it's going to be yet.   Probably find out the night before.   But, yeah, I wish Bob was coming with me.  
   
 Q.   You mean that you could play with one of those or they could play together?   
MIKE BRYAN:   No, no, no.   I think I'm going to be playing.   
BOB BRYAN:   Mike is definitely playing.   
MIKE BRYAN:   It's just I'll play with one of those guys.   
   
 Q.   When are you flying out?  
BOB BRYAN:   Sunday morning, like the 11:00 American Airlines flight.   I think it puts me in Sunday night maybe, into Miami, so...   
   
 Q.   Business or first?   
BOB BRYAN:   Econ.   We'll see how we do.   If we win, I'm going first.   
MIKE BRYAN:   Exit row econ.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT