AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 30, 2010
Mike Bryan
Bob Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BRYAN-BRYAN/Nestor-Zimonjic
  6-3, 6-7, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You switched courts. Was that a big factor tonight?   
 MIKE BRYAN: We thought we would try something different. They've kind of had our number. Last year they beat us in a lot of finals. We decided to throw a new look at them.   
 We used to play like that early in our career. We've had some experience doing it. Our first time in a Grand Slam final playing that way, but it seemed to help. They served extremely big. It's a little easier to take the inside out backhand cross-court than trying to pull a big one.   
 So, yeah, could be the way of the future. We'll see.   
  
  Q. Could you put the second set out of your mind?   
 BOB BRYAN: It was a tough break. Maybe another final, a smaller tournament, that could have broken us. But, you know, when you play two weeks here and it's a Grand Slam final, you don't let anything get you down.   
 I thought we stayed extremely positive. We didn't second guess each other. We put it all behind us. I thought actually our energy went up in the third. We kind of had out-of-body experiences in the third, kind of just got across the finish line somehow. It was great.   
  
  Q. You admitted last year they were the better team. Are you back to the position where if you play your best tennis, you should always beat them?   
 BOB BRYAN: The bottom line is they're a big-serving team. If they come out and serve just absolute rocks, it's going to be a tough break. It's going to come down to breakers.   
 I thought we played really solid today.   
 MIKE BRYAN: It felt today like there was a little bit less pressure. I thought maybe they were the favorite. Even though we were seeded No. 1, they had beaten us. We went in there a little looser. I think we felt the pressure in the past.   
 You know, that might have helped a little bit.   
  
  Q. Did you have any say in the checked shorts you're wearing this year?   
 MIKE BRYAN: This is the new K Swiss line. Looks good on the beach.   
 BOB BRYAN: We had four or five choices, and we chose the surfer shorts.   
  
  Q. You're moving up in the rankings of doubles Grand Slam titles won. You're number two now. Going for the record?   
 BOB BRYAN: That's on our mind obviously. But it's a few Sundays away before we get to that point. The Woodies are our idols. To be considered in the same league with those guys is an honor itself.   
 You know, I imagine if we stay healthy, we might touch that mark. But if we do, you know, we definitely want to honor those guys for all they've done for us. Todd, when he retired, he's given us advice. They've been extremely nice to us when we were youngsters.   
 Actually got the opportunity to play them a few times early in our career. The way they -- they didn't have the big serves like we did, but they used the angles, returned well, really chopped up their opponents. So we learned a lot from them.   
  
  Q. When you see someone like Nestor playing that good at 37, do you think at least five more years for you guys?   
 MIKE BRYAN: We'd love to keep going as long as possible. I mean, I think we can. Bodies are still feeling good. Not taking a lot of Advil, which is nice.   
 Doubles is a sport or a game where you can play up until you're almost 40. We're loving what we're doing. Yeah, we still have a lot of goals we want to achieve. So we're gonna keep doing it.   
 BOB BRYAN: Yeah, we got four years on the K Swiss contract, so you'll see us for four years at least (laughter).   
  
  Q. With Andy and James not playing Davis Cup, do you feel more responsibility to perform?   
 BOB BRYAN: Andy has always been the leader of the team. We've always looked to him for support and experience. He's been incredibly clutch on the Sundays. I think he's won 10 or something, 10-0 when he's had a chance to clinch the match.   
 Now we're kind of stepping into that role as team leaders and the veterans. Hopefully we can help settle the nerves of Isner and Querrey.   
 Those guys are going to be eager to play. They're extremely clutch. John played in college. He plays the big points awesome. Sam Querrey can beat anyone at any time. So, I mean we're the underdogs, but we're going to give it hell and we're going to have fun.   
  
  Q. Something special about playing in Melbourne?  
 MIKE BRYAN: It's a great city. We feel comfortable here. I mean, I think Andre called it the happy slam. Seems we're in a good mood coming down here, fresh from an off-season. We like to get a jump to the year.   
 BOB BRYAN: We always play well when we like our surroundings. It's been like that throughout our whole career. If we like where we're playing, we usually play well.   
 When we're good mentally, that's when we play our best tennis.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT