BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 27, 2009
Mike Bryan
Bob Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







BRYAN-BRYAN/Kubot-Marach
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. We got a message from the Governernator; he's pretty angry. 
 MIKE BRYAN: The Terminator. 

 Q. He said no Christmas presents for you. 
 MIKE BRYAN: Hopefully he's not going to raise our taxes. We apologize to Arnold. But we had to do what we had to do. We needed this one. We played a good match. 
 Those guys are good. They played us tough last time. They were up 6-0, 2-0 last time we played them. We knew to expect a tough match. 
 I thought we played our best match of the tournament, did everything really well. So I apologize to the Austrians, but we needed it. 
 BOB BRYAN: Austria, Poland, everyone. It's Eastern Europe, right. 

 Q. Middle Europe. 
 BOB BRYAN: Middle, okay. 

 Q. Any thoughts ahead of the semifinal? 
 BOB BRYAN: We're playing two veterans, two of the best doubles players in the history of tennis. Played these guys probably combined a hundred times. Nothing to be learned about anything. You know, they know everything about us; we know everything about those guys. 
 Just going to be another hard-fought battle. Had a barn-burner in Australia. Expect another tough one tomorrow. 

 Q. Is the world No. 1 spot an extra motivation or if that happened, would it just be a bonus? 
 BOB BRYAN: Right now we're just trying to win the tournament. You know, we are gritting our teeth a little more out there. You know, this is the World Tour finals. Every match is tough. But you throw No. 1 on top, it's extra motivation to push on every point. 

 Q. What has it been like playing in front of these sort of crowds? 
 MIKE BRYAN: It's been really special. Just looking up into a packed house, you know, gets the adrenaline going. You know, we love to play with energy, and the crowd really injects a lot of energy into us. 
 You know, this is definitely the biggest showcase for doubles we've ever seen, and a lot of these guys have ever seen. 

 Q. What's the biggest Davis Cup crowd you played in front of? 
 BOB BRYAN: We actually played in the biggest tennis crowd of all time, in Seville, 27, 500. Going to a Beyonce concert on Monday night, sold out, mind-blower. Coming here, seeing the same exact crowds is awesome, to know you can take these huge pop stars, put tennis players out there, do the exact same draw, you know, so... 
 Doubles, it's part of the show. I think people are enjoying it. 

 Q. What have you thought about the scoring system, where every point counts? 
 MIKE BRYAN: You know, it's a different monster. It's a little bit more stressful. You got to come out of the chute and be really focused, no letting down. Our first match we just missed a couple volleys. That was the end of the match. Especially in doubles, if you get down a break, you're just fighting an uphill battle. 
 Yeah, I mean, it's probably going to take a few years off our life, but it's going to add a few years to our career because it's less tennis. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT