TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 11, 2008
Mike Bryan
Bob Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BRYAN-BRYAN/Bhupathi-Knowles
7-5, 3-6, 10-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How does it feel winning today? What do you think about the match? 
 MIKE BRYAN: Yeah, it was obviously a very important match, so it feels good to, you know, go 2-0 in the group. Puts us in, you know, good position. I think we've already qualified for the semifinals, so that takes a little pressure off. 
 But I thought we played overall really well. Bob's shoulder's feeling great, you know, which is great, because it's been bugging him for the last couple months. It's getting better and better. 
 You know, our play's improving. 

 Q. If my memory isn't wrong, you haven't won the Masters Cup in Shanghai. So Shanghai is not your lucky place? 
 BOB BRYAN: Well, we actually love playing here. I think they have the best fans in the world. You know, they're waiting outside the hotel. They make us feel really loved here. 
 We've played some great matches and some exciting matches here in Shanghai. They all haven't gone our way, but we have a lot of good memories. Hopefully we can make the best memory this year. 

 Q. I read a report before you might be a good friend of Andy Roddick. What do you think about his match with Roger Federer tomorrow? 
 MIKE BRYAN: Yeah, we're really good friends with Andy Roddick. We've stayed at his house numerous times. He's our Davis Cup teammate. 
 You know, obviously we'd like to see our friend win, but Roger Federer's the best player of all time. You know, I think it's whoever plays better on the day. I don't want to put any controversial quotes out there (laughter). 

 Q. Do you have any way to cheer him up?
 BOB BRYAN: I think he's in good spirits. He's happy to be here. He has a smile on his face. He's getting married next year. He's really happy in life, I think. He just bought a new house in Texas, so life's good for Andy. 
 And I think he's playing well. You know, it's just really tough competition. I think he's due for a big match here pretty soon, a big win. 

 Q. I'm curious about the financial crisis going on right now. Is that an issue on your mind? What's the buzz in the locker rooms? Are you concerned going into 2009 tournaments might be dropped, and that can affect play? 
 MIKE BRYAN: I mean, we're not too worried about the financial crisis. Obviously, you know, the players are talking about how their portfolios are looking. And, you know, we're a little frustrated. You know, we have some stocks. To see, you know, the red numbers. 
 But I don't think we're worried about tournaments. I think most of them are in a good position. You know, tennis is getting bigger and bigger. I think prize money's actually increasing next year. 
 So no one's really talked about tournaments falling off the calendar. They're just worried how, you know, the recession's going. 

 Q. The day after tomorrow you have a musician concert here. Is it the second or third year? 
 MIKE BRYAN: Our third year. 

 Q. You definitely like music a lot. Talk about the story. 
 BOB BRYAN: You know, our first time we played music was out here in the tent in 2005. We felt like rock stars. We had bodyguards. We walked out there. Girls were holding up signs. It was so much fun we wanted to do it again. We did it twice that year. 
 And then we asked them if we could do it again in 2006. It's become kind of a tradition. So we've been talking about, you know, what songs we're going to play. We've been practicing for this for a few months already. 
 Yeah, we're really looking forward to it. It's a lot of fun obviously to do something other than tennis. Music is one of our passions off the court. And to do it and have fans, even though they don't know our songs, they're cheering for us, is a lot of fun. 

 Q. Both of you are 30 years old. Do you ever think about how many years you're going to play? If you're not playing tennis, what else will you do? 
 MIKE BRYAN: Yeah, I mean, we're 30 years old, but we're still some of the youngest doubles players playing. We played a couple guys that are in their late 30s today, so obviously doubles, you can play a little longer. 
 We want to do it as long as possible. We're having a great time. You know, I think it's one of the greatest professions. You get to travel the world, meet people, play in great cities. So hopefully we can play another five, six, seven years, if we can stay healthy. 
 After tennis is done, you know, our dream is to be rock stars (smiling). Might have to only play in Shanghai. 

 Q. Jonas Bjorkman will be retired at the end of the season. Anything you would like to tell him? 
 BOB BRYAN: I'd like to tell him congratulations on a great career. He's made, you know, $15 million in prize money. He's won every Grand Slam and won over 50 titles and is considered one of the greatest doubles players of all time. 
 I just want to congratulate him. And we're happy to see him go (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT