DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINAL: USA VS CROATIA
July 16, 2016
Jim Courier
Bob Bryan
Mike Bryan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DODIG-CILIC/Bryan-Bryan
6-2, 2-6, 6-2, 6-4
USA
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You guys have had such a great record in Davis Cup play.  What do you think was going on today for both Bob and Mike?
BOB BRYAN: I mean, we had a good practice week.  You know, we were feeling good.  We had a good game plan that we talked about extensively throughout the week.
We just didn't execute from -- I think started off with the serve.  Weren't making a lot of first serves.  Weren't getting them in trouble from the start.  They started returning well and gaining confidence.  They just kind of outplayed us in ever aspect of the game today.
That's really on us.  Started turning the momentum around after the first set.  Had some break points.  I had a good look at a second serve forehand that I should have hit a little bit harder.  I just kind of pushed it.  That would've been a good opportunity to really keep the foot on the gas, so I wish I could have had that one back.
But those guys are two good players.  That's the type of match that we have to play at the top of our game to take them out.  We just didn't do it.  That has nothing to do with anything but ourselves.  We take responsibility for that.
Q. Mike, you in particular seemed to have trouble with the serve.  Jack talked about the conditions, the wind.  Was that a factor?
MIKE BRYAN: I mean, you know, you can serve well in practice.  When you get out there it's a different monster when there is adrenaline and crowd and pressure.
Obviously I think I was speeding up.  When you speed up your motion you don't get your toss up, and it's a whole chain reaction.
If I could have held that first game, got settled in the match, got some confidence in my serve, I think it could have been a little different.
Credit to them.  They made some good returns.  Dodig hit a couple backhand winners.  Once you get behind the eight ball you start thinking about it a little bit.
Served well enough.  It's just I think they put a lot of pressure with some good returns.
Q. How much difference does Cilic make playing?
BOB BRYAN: Yeah, Cilic is dangerous.  He brings great returns and some nasty groundies and his serve is pretty strong.
So putting him in there was probably a smart play.
Q. Jim, were you pretty confident they were going to make a switch today?
CAPTAIN COURIER: Yeah, we were pretty confident.  If Cilic had maybe played the second match yesterday and gone five sets, maybe that would've weighed in on him, but he had enough time to recover.
I think it's fair to say he's a better doubles player than Draganja.  That made a lot of sense from their standpoint.
Q. Are you guys feeling confident about tomorrow?  New day, new start.  You guys are still up as of now.
CAPTAIN COURIER: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, obviously we would've loved to close this out today, but we're up 2-1 going in and our singles players have confidence.  They won their matches yesterday.  We have a lot of work a head of us, but we're confident.
Q. How would the fact that Cilic played today affect tomorrow's matchup with Isner?
CAPTAIN COURIER: Hopefully he's tired.  I don't know.  We'll find out tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT