UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 5, 2012
Desmond Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   You've got a game like this with a physical team like Iowa State.   Can you just touch on that, and how much fun you've had playing in a really physical game?   
DESMOND JACKSON:   I like physical games.   It just shows that all the work that we do in the weight room and all of the stuff that we've done over the summertime can actually show.   So I'm very, very excited to play Iowa State this week.   I think they're a pretty good team.   I know they've been doing pretty well for themselves, so I'm looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   How far have you come in the last three weeks after that Oklahoma loss?   
DESMOND JACKSON:   I think we've grown as a team in general.   I think we've grown a lot on offense, defense, and on special teams.   I think that as a team, I think that we've shown that we can do anything we can do just thinking about it.   I think we can show that we have as a whole, we can‑‑ even though we've played not to the best of our ability, we've found a way to win.   That is one thing we do.  
   
 Q.   When the defense was struggling early in the year, how hard was it to hear that and deal with the adversity you were facing?   
DESMOND JACKSON:   We put a lot of work in just in practice and everything, so we haven't really played up to our best ability yet, but we're getting there.   We've got a lot of young guys stepping up, myself included.   I think that we're getting to the point where we're showing progress on a lot of positives.   So like I said, the best is yet to come.  
   
 Q.   You feel like it's getting close?   
DESMOND JACKSON:   I feel it's closer.  
   
 Q.   Is there a sense of urgency knowing that the season is coming to an end here?   Couple of games left, is there more of a sense of urgency?   
DESMOND JACKSON:   I think it is.   I think they put a lot ‑‑ they say that the Texas Tech game we showed that we can do really, really good things.   Our coach said they can put us at a higher standard.   We've always been held to a higher standard.   So we know we haven't played our best games, but we're getting close to it.   So there is a lot of emphasis on we have to do what we can so we can win against Iowa State.   So just get ready for it.  
   
 Q.   What's changing so you can get more success?   
DESMOND JACKSON:   Confidence, that's what I would say.   There's been a lot more confidence just playing with the guys and saying that the guys that are next to me, I've got to fight hard.   I've got to beat down harder than the guy next to me, because I'm pulling for him, and he's pulling for me.   We trust each other more.   
I think we didn't have that at first.   We trusted one another, but we didn't really actually start playing as a team.   So now it's like we have more trust in each other, so we're playing at a higher standard.  
   
 Q.   How much momentum do you all want to build heading into the bye week?   
DESMOND JACKSON:   The only thing we're trying to say is grow momentum.   We're just worried about playing Iowa State.   They're the next team on the schedule.   I don't believethings like we have a lot of momentum because we just won.   So the next opponent is Iowa State.   We're not worried about anything else.   
   
 Q.   Could Steele Jantz be one of those mobile guys you've seen and one of those Heisman‑type quarterbacks that you've been watching this year?   
DESMOND JACKSON:   I actually haven't had a chance to watch him on film yet.   But I've heard a lot of good things about him.   So I'll watch film after my class today, I'll be able to answer that question.   But the only thing I know is he's a really good quarterback.   He's very accurate.   He can do a lot of things with his throwing ability, so we just need to be ready for that.  
   
  
  
   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT