CHEEZ-IT BOWL: OKLAHOMA STATE VS MIAMI
December 29, 2020
Jim Knowles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Oklahoma State Cowboys 37, Miami Hurricanes 34
Q. How does it feel to leave Orlando with a victory?
JIM KNOWLES:   Any time you get a Bowl win, it just carries you over to the next season and I'm really happy for the guys.  They fought hard and obviously till the last play.  That was a really good team we played.  Really good offense, and they kept us on our heels with a lot of trick plays.  You know, it was just good to see our guys battle till the end.
Q. When Miami's starting quarterback came in and Perry came in, how do you feel about the way your team adjusted to him being in the game?  How does it change the game at all with N'Kosi in there as opposed to D'Eriq?
JIM KNOWLES:   You know, not as much quarterback run game, but I thought he was a great thrower and I thought he did a really good job coming in.  I was hoping he would be a little cold but he wasn't.  I thought he played excellent.  So it changed us some from the quarterback run game, but I thought his arm talent was great.
Q. When you look at the groups you have coming back next year what excites you about them?
JIM KNOWLES:   I heard Malcolm's coming back.  That's great.  I think we've got a great group coming back.  We played young guys here down the stretch at the end particularly in the defensive backfield and they came up and made plays.  I think we have a really good core guys returning that have experience.
Q. Do you feel like you have guys that can help carry over the culture?
JIM KNOWLES:   Absolutely.  Absolutely.  These guys have been with me now going on to their fourth year.  They understand; they get it; they have won games on defense, and I definitely think that culture that we are trying to establish on defense will be passed down for sure.
Q. Brock Martin seems to be in the right place at the right time.  What did you think of the way he closed out this season?
JIM KNOWLES:   Brock, he's a great, great kid, great person.  Just a stalwart for our team.  He just does whatever he's asked to do extremely coachable.  Just a tough kid.  Like you said he's always around the ball.  He's a big play guy.  He figures out the play.  You know, he's cerebral and tough and that's what you want from a defensive player.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT