U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2013
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JEFF SLUMAN:   Everybody, thank you very much.   I'm just joking.  
   
 Q.   Tell us how you played today and what you thought of the conditions on the golf course, please.   
JEFF SLUMAN:   Well, first of all, we'd like to thank everybody associated with the golf course, the membership especially, wonderful golf course.   Rave reviews from all players.   Today played a little tougher, you know.   It's getting dryer out there.   Greens got a little more pace on them.  
And the wind and all that, it was a very challenging day, but I thought it was set up where, if you strike the ball well, you're going to have probably six to nine wedges in your hand to have the ability to make birdies.   Long holes played difficult.  
And then 13, they set it up for a drivable par 4.   I thought the setup was spectacular today.   Did a great job.  
   
 Q.   What about your assessment of your play today?   
JEFF SLUMAN:   I played well.   I shot 2 under to finish 4 under for the tournament.   Probably the only hole you'd think you wouldn't make bogey on was the one bogey I made on the 14, the par 5, but that's golf.  
But I did what you're supposed to do in USGA conditions like this.   I kept the ball in play in the fairway, kept the ball underneath the hole, and overall, like I said, I had my chances.   I left‑‑ if you talk to any other player, he'd say the same thing.   I left three or four putts dead in the hole short by an inch.  
But I was pleased with the entire week.  
   
 Q.   Are you a leaderboard watcher at all?   Did you see what was going on out there?   
JEFF SLUMAN:   A little bit.   Fred jumped out early, and then Kenny just‑‑ I don't know what the heck he did, but looks like he made six birdies in seven holes.   Corey made, looked like he made a run of five and all that.  
So you look at the top of the leaderboard and the quality of the players, guys that have won Majors, have contended in Majors throughout their whole careers, and that's eventually what happens in a U.S. Open type format, Senior Open type format.  
Those guys are playing great golf, and it's really fun to hear the roars from the crowd down in the valleys on the back nine.   Kind of, you can reminisce and say, you know, that's how it used to be, and that's how it should be.  
   
 Q.   Great answer.   Thank you so much.   
JEFF SLUMAN:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT