U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2013
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Jeff Sluman, 3 under for today, 4 under total.   
JEFF SLUMAN:   That's a little high, isn't it?   It's all right.   It's all right.  
   
 Q.   Well played, Jeff.   
JEFF SLUMAN:   Thanks.  
   
 Q.   What was the best part of the game today?   
JEFF SLUMAN:   The best part of my game today was really just being patient.   You can get a little frustrated and a little impatient in weather like this, and you knew it was just going to kind of be a long day and stay hydrated and that.   
Just played pretty solid golf.   I hit a few loose shots early, and I was able to chip the ball pretty close to the hole.   So from that aspect, I kept myself in it until I started making‑‑ I made a birdie on 6 to go 1 under.   That just, like I said, kept me in it.   I didn't feel like I had to play from behind too much.  
   
 Q.   Even though you played really well today, you're still five shots behind.   Did that kind of shock you?  
JEFF SLUMAN:   I'd say six.   But Michael's a great player.   He's capable, obviously, of shooting extremely low rounds of golf, which he did today.   I got to see most of it because he was playing in the group ahead of us.   
Looked like a great round of golf.   You just got to tip your hat to that.   We've all got to tee it up tomorrow, and hopefully, we can chase him down a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Is that a dangerous combination, to be so far back and still playing a really tough course like this?   
JEFF SLUMAN:   Well, I mean, you really can't think about anything going forward right now.   I just want to kind of relax and hit a few balls.   I'm sure Michael's going to go have a nice dinner with his family.  
You know, we've been at it so long and so many years that you don't want to get ahead of yourself.   He's going to play the way he plays.   I'm going to try and play the way I play.   Hopefully, at the end of the day, we can make some ground up on him.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on the consistency of the greens.   
JEFF SLUMAN:   I think the biggest, you know, the greens are very consistent, first of all.   In heat like this, we have to turn the golf course to the members on Monday with grass that's alive.   That's the number one important thing.   The USGA is going to do a great job with that.  
Absent that, though, it's difficult because there's so much slope on these greens and you on purpose play underneath the hole.   But you're just really not used to hitting them as hard as you need to do, and just one little mis‑hit, and all of a sudden from 30 feet, you're going to have a 5, 6‑footer very easily, which I did on the last hole when I three‑putted.  
I think everybody's had that happen to them all week.   We have to adjust, and that's why I think we have our names on our bag.   We're supposed to be able to do that quickly.  
Thanks, guys.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT