SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2012
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Looks like you played well today.   Can you talk about your round?  
JEFF SLUMAN:   Yeah, it was very tough conditions out there, obviously.   I did play well.   I got the ball up‑and‑down when I needed to.   I made two birdies and one bogey and the bogey was a 3‑putt, but overall I really can't complain.   
I hit a few squirrely shots and I managed to survive, which if you play the golf course in wind like this and that, you don't want to hit many bad ones like that.   But overall it was a good solid start to the tournament and I couldn't be happier.   
   
 Q.   Looks like so far anything in red numbers is going to be a good score today.   Do you agree?  
JEFF SLUMAN:   Oh, yeah.   The wind's going to, according to the forecast, kick up to 20 miles an hour this afternoon, if it isn't already there now.   And it's just, it's severe greens.   Very fair tee to green and Jack put his undulations in there.   And I mean you just got to get the ball in the fairway to control your iron shot to have a chance to get it close.   
And you can hit a lot of good looking shots, like the last hole Kenny Perry hit a beautiful looking wedge in there and looked like it was going to be five feet.   And the wind got it and it caught a ridge and he's 25 feet coming up over a ridge and now it's a tough 2‑putt in an area where you're thinking, probably he's thinking I got it six feet or so.   So that's what this golf course can do to you and you just got to be very, very patient.   
   
 Q.   When it's a Major, to start at 1‑under, how positive of a thing for confidence is that moving into Friday?  
JEFF SLUMAN:   Well, the tournament's just starting.   You get, you just want to not shoot yourself out of the tournament the first day, the first two days, and so far I've accomplished that.   I'm not going to obviously talk about tomorrow yet, but you just want to get off to a solid start.   
And there's so much golf left, but I didn't go out and shoot a big number, like I did last year, and just really to have to fight hard to even get back in the tournament, which I did last year.   That's not a good position to be in.   So I'm happy where I'm at.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT