KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2019
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Given all the wind that you had to go through in this round today, do you almost think that the score is really relatively manageable given the conditions?  
JEFF SLUMAN: You know, probably starting the day you might say yes, but four holes going, it's even par.  So obviously a little disappointed.  I played the last four, I hit pretty much every shot the way I wanted and made four bogeys, a couple three-putts, the wind killed a few balls.   
It's just a disappointing way to finish when you felt like you were really doing something kind of special in the conditions that were out there.   
 Q.  Given that, any adjustments that you think you need to make going into tomorrow?  
JEFF SLUMAN: Not really any adjustments.  You hit a good shot and you get a 10-mile-an-hour gust in the middle of it, there's no adjusting out there for that.  I think you've got to grin and bear it and try and get it up-and-down, which I didn't do, and then, like I said, I had a couple three-putts.  I had 132 on the front on 9 uphill and (indiscernible) and I hit it kind of a little -- punched a little 6-iron and didn't even come close to getting there.  I don't know how you adjust for anything like that.  Maybe just got to pick better clubs or whatever.   
But it's a lot of feel out there under conditions like this.  And I believe it's going to be pretty windy in the morning still from what the forecast said.  At least you get one day and probably the only thing you hope for is it's going the same direction so you've got a little better feel for the golf club.   
 Q.  You go in tomorrow maybe with a number in mind in order to get to the weekend, or do you just worry about playing just one hole at a time?  
JEFF SLUMAN: You just, you know, one hole at a time out here.  You start thinking ahead and, you know, I might as well pack my bag and head to Monroe County Airport.  So you just one shot at a time under conditions like this.  Because if you play a good round and shoot even par you would pass a lot of people for the day.   
 Q.  The fact that it was 7-over when Jay won in '08, is that encouraging to know that --  
JEFF SLUMAN: Yeah, the golf course is playing very difficult without the wind.  It's exponentially more difficult today.  You know the scores are going to be high.  You know probably the winner is going to have a round of 72 or -4 on the card probably this week.  So I would say hopefully I got mine out of there.   
All in all, except for a nervy, shaky tee shot on the 10th hole to start the day, I hit almost every shot exactly the way I wanted.  It's not a bad thing under these conditions.   
 Q.  A long day with the weather delay and everything like that.  How do you feel?  Got to get back out in the morning and kind of do this all over again?  
JEFF SLUMAN: I've been doing it for 40 years, so you kind of get used to it.  And this year especially has been a brutal year on the Champions Tour.  Weather-wise we've had delay after delay really all year.  Absent the first tournament (indiscernible) I think we've delayed or rained on every week.  Crazy.   
 Q.  Does that rank up there?  Where might this round rank in terms of difficulty, the wind, in all your travels and all your rounds?  It's on a short list maybe?  
JEFF SLUMAN: Yeah, it's on a short list.  It isn't quite near Pebble Beach in '92 on Sunday.  That was as brutal as it could get.  But this is an extremely difficult golf course under trying conditions.  Especially the first day, you know, you're trying to get your feet on the ground and manage the golf course well, and you're on the defensive all day here.   
Just it was hardly a chance to try and attack.  Even downwind, very hard to get the ball to stop on the green.  It was difficult for everybody, and hopefully I do a little better tomorrow.   
 Q.  Are you feeling a little extra pressure, being that it's obviously here, you're playing in front of a lot of family and friends?  
JEFF SLUMAN: Not so much.  Early in my career, yes.  Certainly felt a lot of pressure.  You always want to do well when you're home and got the buddies out there and the family.  Of course you want to do well.  But I know I'm trying as hard as I can (indiscernible).  I'm going to post the score today, tomorrow, see where it's at and then go on with a good weekend or go on with a wonderful experience in Rochester.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT