U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2011
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. The conditions were a little tougher than they were this morning for the guys.   
 JEFF SLUMAN: Of course I wasn't out this morning so I wouldn't know. But I think it was a little calmer this morning. Golf course played fine. I shot 3-under, and probably if you watched me it probably looked more like 80. I played just pathetic off the tee. If I do that, this will be the last time I talk to anybody about golf if I keep swinging like that.   
 It was an interesting day for me, but you know, the scores were still -- the golf course was still out there to get today. As any USGA event, it seems they have an ability to get the golf course more difficult as the week progresses. If the weather cooperates and no rain, it's going to be difficult.  
  
  Q. You struggled off the tee; 3-under seemed like a pretty decent round?  
 JEFF SLUMAN: A miracle. Oh, yeah, it was unbelievable. I really could have shot 80. I just hit it all over the parking lot.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 JEFF SLUMAN: You know, it's true, I hit a couple of extremely lucky shots. I started on the back nine, and I was 2-over going into 17 and hit a horrible drive, way left. Had to punch it under a tree from 160 yards and I don't know how it happened, but it got over the bunker, rolled up about eight feet to make that for my first birdie, and I hit a 2-footer on 9, or 18, excuse me. I actually hit the fairway there. That was interesting actually hitting the fairway.   
 Then 1, I hit the fairway and made birdie there. But, really, if you look at my stats, it was pretty ugly off the tee.  
  
  Q. That's not something that you can duplicate if you keep doing that?  
 JEFF SLUMAN: You know, I'd have an ulcer, or I don't know what. If I played like that off the tee all the time, I'd be over there in that little kids' playroom over there.  
  
  Q. John was talking about the greens might be a little slower than you are used to.   
 JEFF SLUMAN: Absolutely. I don't know if this is A4 or whatever kind of grass, but certainly late in the day with the full day of growth, and you're trying to keep the ball under here, obviously, and they've got some pins up on ridges. It's difficult to get the ball to the hole. They were very slow. Slower than we expected.  
  
  Q. That won't last either, huh?   
 JEFF SLUMAN: Well, USGA certainly doesn't want to leave the golf course dead on Monday for the members. They're cognizant of that. But they want to make it as tough as they can for us which they should.  
  
  Q. Was today just a bad day off the tee? You won at Pebble. You've been playing pretty well.   
 JEFF SLUMAN: I've been driving the ball well for a number of years, really. Every once in a while I get days like this where I get out of sequence. I don't really know what causes it.   
 I'll go to the range and probably hit it perfect and be real frustrated, but that's just kind of the things that happen to me occasionally. Every once in a while it goes haywire, and I've got to get on the range and work it out.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT