CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 29, 2009
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Jeff, 6-under par, 30 on the back nine. You go eagle, birdie, par to finish the round. Very nice start to the 2009 Charles Schwab Cup Championship.
 JEFF SLUMAN: Yeah, Phil, thanks. It started out slow today with a three-putt on the first hole. I didn't feel very comfortable over the ball initially, but I kind of worked and stayed patient with my golf swing. 
 You know, it wasn't like I was hitting it everywhere, but I had some decent chances on the front and didn't really convert. 
 The birdie I made at the front nine was on No. 2. I hit it in the bunker on the right and blasted out to about a foot. So I just made a bunch of pars after that. 
 Then back nine, you know, part of it was staying patient. I finally got into a better groove. Got into a groove with the putter, which is really nice. 
 Next thing you know, I'm putting for 29 on 18. Actually thought I made that, but I am not gonna complain. I think I had 11 putts on the back nine. If you do that and complain about missing one of them, you don't sound very professional, I would say. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: You want to run through the birdies on the back nine? 
 JEFF SLUMAN: 10, I hit it to about two inches with a wedge. That was a good start to that. 
 11, I hit driver, wedge in there and came back off the hill to about six feet. 
 13, par-5, I hit a beautiful drive there and hit it into the left bunker. That's kind of where you want to miss it. The pin was on the right, and blasted that to about six, eight inches. 
 Then eagle on 16. Beautiful drive, and hit it on the side of the hill and just kind of died. You know, you're kind of thinking, That was a bad break. Turned out to be a perfect yardage for my hybrid. I hit it in there, and I heard my caddie say, Get in, so I knew it was a pretty good shot. But it ended up rolling off the slope to about, looked like about 18 feet. You know, I kind of looked over the putt and thought I missed it high maybe. But caught a good par to the hole and went in.
 17, beautiful 8-iron right over the pin. From the tee it looked like a leaner, but it turned out to be six feet. That was a relatively straight putt and made that. 
 18, I hit it, like I said, about 15 feet right over the pin and back and hit a nice putt there. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Obviously some good vibes coming back to northern California.
 JEFF SLUMAN: Yeah. I mean, this whole area has always been very kind to my golf game for some reason. Enjoy playing here. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Questions. 

 Q. What was it that clicked for you over the back nine? 
 JEFF SLUMAN: You know, I think I just probably started making a little better shoulder turn. When I do that, then I feel like I've got time at the top of my backswing. That's you want. My swing is a little short in the first place. If I don't make a turn, I get quick on my transition. 
 I just felt like, like I said, on the back nine, I get to the top. And when you're playing well and swinging well, it feels like you've got all day up there. When you're not, that transition feels like a blur. That's what we always fight. 
 Just kind of clicked in on the back. You know, then you start being more aggressive and shooting at pins a little bit more. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT