SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Now comparing your round from yesterday to today, did you change your strategy?  
 JEFF SLUMAN: No.  
  
  Q. Change your clubs, anything?  
 JEFF SLUMAN: No strategy change. I played much better yesterday than today. Today I scored better than yesterday. It's just, golf's that way. And I made a few putts today but yesterday I hit the ball much better than I did today. But, you know, a lot of times there's no rhyme or reason.   
  
  Q. Yeah. Now did your tee time today, did that change the course any from when you teed off yesterday or was it about the same?  
 JEFF SLUMAN: Well, I think everybody feels, especially in a Major, that the morning is usually the time to take advantage of the golf course if you can. But I knew it was going to be dry and fast.   
 The wind was from a different direction than we have seen any time this week, so that kind of brought some different strategy and clubs into play off the tees, because you kind of get used to seeing how a golf course plays when it's the same wind direction. And today it was out of the north. So just a little more thought process, let's say.   
  
  Q. Is there anything to do with the course itself?  
 JEFF SLUMAN: Yeah, oh, yeah, the golf course is wonderful here. It's old style, you got to shape shots, you got to be -- you just got to have all facets of the game working here, because the greens are treacherous, you got to be able to hit the ball, hopefully in the fairway and then put it in a certain designated spot on the green to have a chance.   
 Not just willy nilly golf where you just get up and bash it and hit it anywhere on the green and sometimes we see that. But this is what Majors are about and at the end of the week there's no question that whoever the best player is this week probably will win.   
  
  Q. What are your thoughts going into tonight?  
 JEFF SLUMAN: My wife and daughter just drove in, so that's all I'm concerned about. Going out to dinner with them.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT