THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2018
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Really nice second round by Jeff Sluman with the exception of maybe 13.  A lot of great numbers on your scorecard.  In these conditions what were you able to do to put that number on the board?  
JEFF SLUMAN: Well, obviously I made some putts.  Everybody's got the same game plan out here, stay out of the fairway bunkers.  Double bogey on 13.  I was in a bunker, it blasted out sideways.  Actually it blasted out backwards and I had about 230 to the pin and I made a St. Andrews double.  Pretty easy.  But overall I kept the ball in the right spots.  Even if you're -- it's very strange, because even if you're 50 to 60 yards off line of the fairway, sometimes that's the best spot.   
 Q.  It's interesting, you got a lot of wind today.  You're probably going to get more wind on the weekend.  But it looks like there's going to be rain.  How do you mentally prepare for that?  
JEFF SLUMAN: I'm not a very good mudder, I can tell you.  But you know, you just try and persevere.  We had -- I don't know if we were over last year, but it was horrific weather over in Wales, and you know, you just -- you take every shot as what's in front of you.  Sometimes a good shot can be missing a green by five yards, you know.  I mean that's just the way it is.  You can't hit perfect shots over here.  You can't try and play that way, as much as you'd like to, you just have to accept some strange bounces at times, too.   
 Q.  Well, you're in good position, Jeff, to persevere on the weekend.  Wish you the best.  
JEFF SLUMAN: Thanks.   
 Q.  Jeff, another round of 68.  What's your verdict on your round today?  
JEFF SLUMAN: Very good round.  Happy I made a lot of putts that typically this year, honestly, I haven't been making.  So I got off to a good start and took advantage of the holes going out.  Played very solidly.  The one hiccup on 13 where I made a double I drove it in the fairway bunker.  And that's not a recipe for anything except maybe a bogey or a double at St. Andrews, and I ended up making double.   
 Q.  How tough is it on the back nine?  The wind is picking up now.  It's quite tough now on the back nine, isn't it?  
JEFF SLUMAN: It is very difficult.  The fits where the ball has to go at times are in the crosswinds, kind of in on the left, so it's very difficult to get the ball properly situated in and out of a bunker, but St. Andrews with the design you can go way left, but it cuts off your better angle into the green.  But that's what I did for the most part out there.  And you look for birdies going out, and you feel like pars coming in are pretty good.   
 Q.  You're minus eight now, clubhouse leader.  The wind is picking up.  We might be the leader at the end of the day.  It's quite exciting going into the weekend, is it?  
JEFF SLUMAN: Well, you're in a good position.  That's all.  Whether you're leading or not, I'm not going to be too far out of it, wouldn't think, out of the lead.  And I'll probably be in one of the last two or three groups, depending on -- we've got some great players out there, with Jiménez and Langer and Triplett is still playing.  There's a lot of guys that can put together a round, because you still can, because you can really take advantage of those holes going out.  Stephen Ames I just was coming off 18 and he was teeing off right now, and I think he starts at six.  But I am in a good position, and I don't think they're going to get done today.  Doesn't seem like it with the daylight.  So we'll finish up hopefully tomorrow morning, hopefully, and maybe the rain won't come or it won't be as bad as we think.   
 Q.  If the rain does come, how will you mentally prepare for bad weather?  
JEFF SLUMAN: Well, you just gotta slug it out.  We played in maybe the worst weather you could play in last year the first two rounds in Porthcawl.  So I think if I could survive that, I could survive anything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT