BUICK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2004
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.   How do you approach a round like this?
JEFF SLUMAN:  You don't obviously expect to shoot a 62, but I worked on something yesterday.  If you would have saw my first four holes yesterday, it would have been hard to believe you'd be interviewing me today except for shooting about an 80, but I found something on the golf course yesterday which was a little off.  I came back pretty well for an even par round yesterday, and I got off to a good start today, birdied 1, 2 and 3.

Without sounding like an idiot, I lipped out four times from six, eight feet, also, through 14, and I was 8 under.  It was a really solid round of golf, and I just kept being aggressive and aggressive and aggressive.  I started the day in no man's land anyway, so why not swing for it.
Q.   How about on 18 to tie the course record?
JEFF SLUMAN:  I hit a nice putt there, it just didn't go in.  Pat and I would have had a nice best ball today.  He made three birdies where I didn't, and he parred the one hole I made bogey on.  I take away nothing but great feelings from this golf course.

For a number of years, I've always felt like I could play well here.  I've had kind of flashes of shooting really low scores, but today I kind of put it together.
Q.   If you had to do it over again, would you have stayed aggressive on 15?
JEFF SLUMAN:  I hit 3 wood to knock it on the green.  I don't know how much more aggressive I could be.  Driver was the wrong play.
Q.   I guess would you have been more or less aggressive?  Did it just kind of get away from you?
JEFF SLUMAN:  I hit it a little left and it took a huge bounce left.  It looked like it was possibly just going to end up left of the green, which is kind of where you want it for a chip shot, but it went in the water, and that's the way it goes.  I'm happy with my     driver would have been way too much club.  3 wood was the right club, and sometimes you actually hit a bad shot.
Q.   (Inaudible).
JEFF SLUMAN:  There was a few that I hadn't ever seen.  Take, for example, No.  3, was four yards on the green.  It was the kind of golf course that if you don't drive it on the fairway on that hole, it's hard to get that ball close, so it was firming up, and it looked like there was a little bit of wind that picked up today.  Even when we were out there this morning, it was certainly more than we've had all week.  It's a nice test, though.
Q.   When you're out there, do you start thinking about course record, or hey, maybe I'm even in contention?
JEFF SLUMAN:  Not really.  You know what you're doing.  You know you're playing well.  You can't hide that fact.  You just kind of go through your routine and just take one shot at a time.
Q.   Is that hard to do when you have seven birdies in the first 11 holes and you're standing over a makeable one on 12?  How do you keep from thinking maybe 60 or 59?
JEFF SLUMAN:  I think you start thinking about 59 if you get to 10 under, but at 7 under, you've got things to do to get to 10 under, so you just kind of keep plodding along.
Q.   Is there a point at which you start thinking about posting a number, though, when you've got a round like this going?
JEFF SLUMAN:  Not really.  When you've got a round like this going, you're just trying to birdie every hole.  You've got good ball control, good distance control.  You're hitting clubs very well, so you're just focused on that shot, how close can I hit it.  You're not focused on the end result after 18 holes.
Q.   So when you're at 14 and you know you've got 15 and 16 coming up, you're not thinking
JEFF SLUMAN:  Not really.  I'm focused on that tee shot.
Q.   One shot at a time?
JEFF SLUMAN:  Yeah.  I haven't seen yet where you can really look out in the future in golf and kind of just manage your game at that point.  You try to make birdies and that's what you've got to do out here.
Q.   What's your low round?
JEFF SLUMAN:  62.  I shot one at Dallas and one at Buick Challenge.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT