SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2015
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  5-under through 13 today.  Take me a little bit through the round as you were climbing up the leaderboard.  JEFF SLUMAN: Well, I just started out and I just played excellent golf, which you have to do here at Pete Dye.  And I hit a bunch of shots close, obviously cashed in on those. I made -- didn't make any really significantly lengthy putts out there, but I think through nine holes I hit every green, basically.  So that probably doesn't happen very often. 10, 11, 12, 13, I hit it close, all the way through there. 12 and 13, I hit it in there two feet on both holes.  So that got me to 5-under. Basically 14 all week's been a troublesome tee shot for me and it was again today.  I hit it in the bunker and didn't really have anything.  My feet were half in, half out of the bunker, I had no leverage, and I made five there. Then 15 essentially the same thing happened.  I hit a nice drive down the middle and I was on an up slope, so I couldn't, I couldn't take the iron and kind of drive it in, I had to throw it way up in the air.  It was close to being a real good shot.  Hit the slope, rolled in the bunker and then my feet were way out of the bunker.  So again I had no leverage, no ability to really hit enough on the ball and so I made bogey there. I birdied 17. I hit a terrible drive on 18.  I got stuck against one of Pete's famous walls there.  And hit a nice chip up there to probably eight feet for par and thought I made the putt and it didn't go in and I guess bottom line, 69, probably not a bad score today.   Q.  Did you notice yourself climbing up the leaderboard?  JEFF SLUMAN: Well, yeah, I'm 5-under and then I got 1-under for the tournament, I know I'm certainly climbing the leaderboard.  It's a tough golf course, and, you know, there's not going to be many people under par for the tournament, so, unless I'm a total idiot, I had to figure out at that point I was maybe play the last five holes 2-, or 3-under, maybe got an outside chance.  But I certainly didn't do that. But the week's over, started out poorly, so, I guess if you would have asked me on the 13th tee, which would have been my fourth hole of the tournament on Thursday, would I take 1-over, I would have said yeah and I wouldn't have been, I didn't think I could shoot that at that point.  But it was a long week, tough conditions, and looking at the leaderboard now, the best player's going to win.  Typically that happens.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT