JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 10, 2004
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Talk about your round, obviously a big move.
JEFF SLUMAN:  Well, as of right now, I don't really know where I stand, but in comparison to everybody else, but I'm at 10-under.  At the start of the day I was at 5, so 5-under this afternoon, not bad.

It certainly is going to put me in a much better position.  I don't know the position I need to really win the golf tournament, but if I go out and shoot probably 8 or 9 under maybe tomorrow, it's the same type of conditions that are out there weather-wise, no wind, but it's potentially out there.  Somebody is going to do it.
Q.  Was there any one shot or putt that kind of kick-started your round today?
JEFF SLUMAN:  Not really.  Actually I bogeyed 11.  When I started on the back nine, I parred 10, missed the putt, made birdie there, and then I bogeyed 11 from the middle of the fairway, so I was a little frustrated.

I hit it in the bunker on 12 and it was a tough bunker shot and I hit it down there about six feet and made that.  That was probably the key early in the round of kind of settling myself into 13 and 14 and kind of got on a little roll on that.  Thinking I missed the one on 12, I'm not saying I would have shot one shot more than I did, but it would have been pretty frustrating to start out 2 over after 3.
Q.  It seems like all season long, second, third round you've been right there in contention.  I guess the fourth round is where you've really got to --
JEFF SLUMAN:  I don't know.  I didn't know I was playing that good in the third round.  This year -- really I haven't honestly played very well all year.  I played what I would consider to be mediocre golf.  I haven't really had a whole lot of opportunities to really have a chance to win or really have a good finish.

My game is starting to turn around.  I've worked pretty hard on what I needed to work on, which is the putting and chipping.  I went to a belly putter and I'm making a few more putts, so I'm excited about tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT