THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 26, 2004
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What was the most challenging part of today?
JEFF SLUMAN:  When the rain hit.  We were lucky, we were on the 9th green, but it was a difficult day.  But it didn't really last too long.  It affected you for maybe a hole, hole and a half.  But it looked for a while coming in like we were going to get nailed again, but fortunately we didn't.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JEFF SLUMAN:  It has treated me pretty well historically.  There must be something about it.  You have to shape the ball and everything, and it must be good for my eye.  I'm not the greatest driver of the ball, but I seem to be able to hit it relatively straight here, which is really the biggest key here.  I'm not strong enough, and I don't know many guys that are strong enough to consistently hit it in the rough here and survive.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JEFF SLUMAN:  I'd like to have a 20-shot lead.  But that's as good as I could do really for the two days.  And I had a little momentary lapse on the back nine, bogeyed 14 and 15, but had two nice shots and had an eagle chance on 16.  But I'm happy at being at 5-under.  The golf course was very, very difficult this afternoon, really, honestly, until a little bit of rain came and seemed to knock the wind out.  The greens got slower, because that put moisture on them.  They'll be alive for the weekend, at least.
Q.  (Inaudible).
JEFF SLUMAN:  It's unbelievable.  I think the best streak I had was high 20s or low 30s, and I thought that was awfully good for me.

But 120 is just phenomenal.  It would take probably nearly a broken leg for him to go out there and miss a cut, really.  He's hands down the best player in the world.  He's probably not playing as well as he wants to in the last couple of weeks, but there's a lot of golf to be played this year, and you're going to hear about that from him.
Q.  18 played easy yesterday, but today was tougher?
JEFF SLUMAN:  The wind when I got there switched a little bit.  Yesterday I hit driver, wedge, which I have never in my life hit driver, wedge on 18.  And today I pushed it in the right rough just a little bit.  I actually thought I hit a pretty good drive.  But it was like a 5- or 6-iron in there.

Yesterday the pin, everything fed towards it.  They had about four or five pin placements yesterday, and today looking back on it, none.  So the day to get the golf course was yesterday.  You had to get those holes pretty much.
Q.  43 birdies on it yesterday, does that number surprise you?
JEFF SLUMAN:  They might not have that many Friday, Saturday and Sunday on it, I would guess.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT