U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2014
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Your thoughts on how you finished up this week.  Looks like it's a Top-5 finish here.  JEFF SLUMAN: Yeah.  I mean it's just a brutally difficult golf course.  I mean I made four doubles out there this week which obviously really hurts, but, you know, I tried very hard.  I gave it my best effort and I'm happy with the finish, you know.  We all wanted to start the week off and be on top.  I thought I played well.   Q.  Tell me a little bit about your day.  I saw you had one of those doubles on your front-9 but you kind of hung in.  JEFF SLUMAN: I doubled the first hole right out of boxer, missed a 4-footer and ran it five feet by and missed that.   Q.  Tell me a little bit about the rest of your round today, how you were able to hang.  JEFF SLUMAN: I made a couple of pars and made another double.  I hit a decent shot on 5 and hits the edge of the fairway and rough and ricocheted into the water, a shot I thought was going to be close and actually bit and held on to the green and 25 feet, three-putted that. I don't know if I had -- I mean, you never know what would happen but, at that point, my tournament thought of winning was gone for sure but, you know, at that point all you're doing is staying with the principles, the things that you do well and you just try and hang in there because you got a lot of holes to play. This golf course can get you to the point where you can shoot a million out there if you get ticked off and, you know, not throw the towel but lose your concentration.  It's hot.  You know, at the end of the week your brain is on fire out here so you just hang in there.   Q.  That was my next question, the conditions.  The wind wasn't up like it can be in these parts today but with the temperature.  How difficult were the conditions today?  JEFF SLUMAN: It was very difficult out there, you know, just trying on you physically.  I got here Monday and, you know, four days of play and then three days of practice, you're whipped by the end of the week.  We're supposed to perform under those conditions and I think overall the whole field did pretty well.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT