EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2003
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







TODD BUDNICK:  We thank Jeff Sluman for stopping by after a 7-under 63 today, bogey free.
JEFF SLUMAN:  Did I have a choice?
TODD BUDNICK:  Did you have a choice?
JEFF SLUMAN:  Thanks for stopping by, not that we have a choice.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you.
JEFF SLUMAN:  I like to talk with you. 
TODD BUDNICK:  No bogeys today, Jeff, tell us about the day out there.
JEFF SLUMAN:  Well, the golf course, I thought on other side of the road this year is significantly tougher.  I mean there is still going to be low scores because of the conditions right now is very little wind that didn't come up like I kind of thought it would.  Early on there was a little bit of breeze and it kind of died as the day progressed.  The greens are relatively soft.  I don't know if it poured rain last night.  If it didn't they left the sprinklers on for a while.  So with those 2 combinations, if you are driving it well, you are going to have quite a few opportunities for birdies which I did.  But, you know, they planted a lot of trees, the pins were cut relatively tough in some of the spots and the rough was really up.  So I just didn't get out there, aimlessly launch the driver with any disregard for anything because the rough is actually a little bit of a penalty this year versus other years.
TODD BUDNICK:  You are coming off T-10, T-11 starts, the last 2, you are playing well, is there anything in particular that has you playing well at this time.
JEFF SLUMAN:  Well, I think I have actually -- I feel like I have played well all year for the most part.  But as always, most pros common things when they are not playing well is usually putting, and I haven't putted that well.  I haven't made the putts that you need to make to keep rounds going or to get that one really low round in there.  
And I called Stan a couple of weeks ago, just before New Orleans and took a putting lesson over the phone.  And it's kind of interesting but he is the first guy that's ever really been able to explain to me what you actually have to do for really good putting stroke.  So he has really helped, and we are trying to get together, you know, face-to-face, so he can actually watch me for a while.  He is working with a few other guys, Jay Haas, a number of other guys.  They have raved about Stan.  I got out there today and what he has been telling me, it kicked in a little at New Orleans and the stroke feels certainly more solid and I made a few more putts.  I have to think that what he has told me is working right now.

Q.  What did he tell you?
JEFF SLUMAN:  Knock it in. 

Q.  Be target oriented?
JEFF SLUMAN:  Not really.  I know what the flaws of my stroke are.  They kind of go out, go on the outside on the back swing, and kind of comes a little in and then goes back out.  I have seen it at Scott Cameron's studio.  The definition of a perfect stroke is if you watch Brad Faxon stroke comes in, swings open, mirror image, squares up at impact. 
But Stan was the first guy to tell me actually how to do it. 

Q.  He is (inaudible)?
JEFF SLUMAN:  I tried it before.  It never worked.  Now I know why it's didn't work because I was doing it wrong.

Q.  Straight back and back through (inaudible)?
JEFF SLUMAN:  If it works for you, fine.  I'm not saying it's never worked for me before.  I had some inherent flaws in my putting stroke, and they need to get out.  Right now, you know, I'm on the infant stages of this.  I certainly like the results so far.

Q.  Did you have much hope getting that much accomplished over the phone when you called him?
JEFF SLUMAN:  Desperate men do desperate things  when you really feel like your putting is so bad.  I have always been one of those ones, I know it's me.  But when you know there is a definite flaw in there, you see your peers and your friends doing so well, and they are putting great, and they are raving about it.  I said, gosh, I need to talk to Stan, and he really put it  -- the first guy every to put it in very simple terms for me and that.  So it's really helped.

Q.  Did Jay have a lot to do with you going to Stan?
JEFF SLUMAN:  Yes.  I talked to Jay and a few other guys.  I think Stan has worked with him.  Fred has worked with him.  I can't really tell all of them.  Stan could tell you obviously.  It's really be much easier for me.

Q.  How is your father?
JEFF SLUMAN:  He is doing well, doing well.

Q.  You had to withdraw last week and you went home?
JEFF SLUMAN:  I went to see him, yes.

Q.  Jeff, you mentioned Jay Haas and Freddie why are more guys staying more competitive for so many more years now?
JEFF SLUMAN:  Well, I think that is a number of reasons.  One of the first reasons that I think is you look at Hale Irwin, 57, he has been able to accomplish on the Senior Tour and the quality of play.  I think you see that as you get into your mid-40's and late 40's and you realize it really isn't the end of the road.  There is a reason to still work hard on your game and stay competitive.  I think most of the guys -- quite honestly, Freddie is the first one really that you would fall out of the category, I'm going to say, but most of the guys myself, Loren Roberts, Scott Hoch, Nick Price, Jay Hass, a few other guys I'm missing, Fred Funk, aren't real bombers of the golf ball. 
We learned how to play a number of ways, high, low, right-to-left, left-to-right.  So I think that we didn't have a one dimensional type of game, and we can play a lot of shots. 
The equipment has helped out obviously, but it has helped everybody along the way. 
I think you have to have a passion and a love for the game at this age to go out and compete against these young kids, so I think there is a whole bunch of little reasons that go into the whole recipe of guys being able to continue to play well. 
And when you see somebody else doing it, you say why can't I.  And I really think that has an affect on a lot of guys.

Q.  Do you like it when you see other 40-some players a top the leader board?
JEFF SLUMAN:  I love it.  I think it's fantastic.

Q.  Does it help?  Even a while back you have always played 30 events or more.  Last year you played 32, is it something you always like to do?
JEFF SLUMAN:  I love to play.  I have always kind of been that way.  I love competing, and I love being out playing the best golf courses against the best players in the world.

Q.  You won the PGA early in your career, you had a  long drought, now won 5 of the last 6 years, do you know what you figured out, what you did to learn how to win?
JEFF SLUMAN:  That's hard to say.  In between the PGA and my second win I lost a quite a few playoffs.  It wasn't like I was on a serious dry spell.  I made the TOUR Championship a number of years but you're right, I didn't win at that point.  I think as you become older you realize what you can do out there and as importantly what you can't do.   
When you first come out here on TOUR you play with -- I'm a low ball, medium height hitter, and you play with a guy that rips the iron off a tight lie, over a bunker and the ball rolls three feet next to the hole.  You are like God that's an unbelievable shot.  I got to learn how to hit that one.  Well, you really don't.  There are certain things you are not going to be able the to do because of your swings and ball flight and there are certain things you are.  When you are a young guy out here you want to be able to hit every play you can hit, and when you soon realize what you got, and your strengths, the better off you are. 
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Jeff.  Thanks.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT