HP CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
May 1, 2003
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.  Thanks, 7-under 65, two top-tens in the last four starts, your game is playing well right now.
JEFF SLUMAN:  Yeah, I think so.  I played well at Harbourtown a few weeks ago, had a disappointing Sunday round with the putter, but overall I feel like I'm hitting the ball well (Inaudible) Top-10, and obviously I'm doing something right, keeping the ball in play and good iron shots. 
Today I took advantage of, basically, a defenseless golf course early on.  The wind has picked up marginally right now, but still, I think you have to be in attack mode today right now.  No bogeys up there yet.  Again, like I said, you must be in attack mode (inaudible). 
Again, if you looked up at the leader board early, a bunch of guys 3-under at 5, 1-under at 6.  Par 5s are reachable, a lot of birdies, the greens were holding today, putting very, very (inaudible).  Today is the day that, you know, if you don't play well you don't score well and you have nobody to blame but yourself.

Q.  Jeff, did you (inaudible)?
JEFF SLUMAN: You know, I think if you really think about a number early it's counterproductive because if you don't get there, you sense some frustration.  If you get there sooner than you think, or whatever, then sometimes you feel like you can relax.  You just got to go out (inaudible) and birdie every hole, you know that's not going to happen.  (Inaudible) on a day like today, every hole (inaudible) birdie hole.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JEFF SLUMAN: I started out on the Back  9, and 11 was my first birdie, par 5, (inaudible) 5-wood, actually (inaudible) left that out for eagle, hole number 12, par 3, was  -- (inaudible) 149, played a little short there.  9-iron looked like it ran right over the edge of the hole.  13, (inaudible), I drove in the left rough, made it out with my gap-wedge (inaudible) a bunch of pars (inaudible) back to the left there, and high to the right, birdie the next par 5, (inaudible) 5-wood that looked like it was going to be perfect, as perfect as you can hit it on that hole. 

Q.  Good memory, huh?
JEFF SLUMAN: Memory.  We all have  -- perfect second shot there, carried the water, (inaudible) chipped that out for about 15 feet, (inaudible) and number 9, 5-wood off the tee, and just beautiful yard, 124 and (inaudible) it's just on the (inaudible).

Q.  (Inaudible.)
JEFF SLUMAN: (Inaudible) see if my name is on there every year.  





End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT