U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2014
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Can you talk about the driver situation?  What happened?JEFF SLUMAN: Well, I hit a good drive on No. 7, and Doug who I was obviously playing with and myself just way different sound, little different feel.  I looked down.  You know, all drivers eventually will crack.  Unfortunately mine cracked right there, and it was a big gash.  So it's unusable. My backup is in Chicago.  Really not doing me much good right now.  I guess that's kind of my fault. It was 3-wood, 3-wood away the rest of the day.Q. Did you try to scramble and find a replacement?JEFF SLUMAN: Well, you know, my driver is kind of an older version, so the drivers that Billy Andrade and Fred Funk brought me are not the exact driver, and they don't even -- I can't screw it in.  Doesn't even fit. I guess I've got an issue (laughter).Q. So did people back up or did they play through while you tried to screw it in?JEFF SLUMAN: No, that takes 20 seconds.Q. What model of driver?JEFF SLUMAN: R11 S.  I don't even know.  I've got to take a look at it.  R11 S, 10.5-degree.Q. TaylorMade?JEFF SLUMAN: TaylorMade, yeah.Q. Considering that, how much of a mental hurdle are you having?JEFF SLUMAN: Well, if I hit a horrible 3-wood, it wouldn't be good.  But I have a nice 3-wood I can hit a long way, especially under these conditions. Really, I looked at my round yesterday and I only think I hit four drivers, as it was. So I would say that's what's always been one of my good things about this golf course.  It fits my game well.  I think it's a better 3-wood course than driver course. You know, there is a few holes certainly you'd like to have the driver, but it's really not a huge deal.Q. What's the plan for tomorrow?JEFF SLUMAN: The plan for tomorrow is if I don't find something tonight I'm going out with 13 clubs.Q. Do you plan on going to GolfSmith afterwards, or what's the plan?JEFF SLUMAN: I don't know.  We'll find something.  If not, it's not the end of the world.Q. Considering the leaderboard and the conditions, what are you expecting tomorrow?  Do you have a sense of how this is all going to shake out?JEFF SLUMAN: Well, obviously the golf course is more difficult and getting more difficult by the day. I assume if I have read the forecast correctly, a very similar day tomorrow as today is.  So I'm not much of a gambler, but I'm betting heavy dollars that the USGA doesn't flood the greens tonight. I expect to see firm fairways, firm greens absent any storms that come popping in. The golf course is out there.  I think we're going to see the same golf course that we saw today, and, you know, by now we should know that somebody, whoever wins this tournament, is going to know how to play it well tomorrow.Q. Right now Gene Sauers is in the lead.  Given his injuries, his back...JEFF SLUMAN: Very encouraging.  I have always been very good friends with Gene and loved his golf game.  He swings the club beautifully. I can remember years ago somebody asking me if I wanted somebody's swing, you know, back in the late '80s, early '90s, who would it be, and Gene Sauers is the name I gave them.  I loved his action.  Released the club beautifully. You know, as far as golf, very, very talented, and then, you know, I'll let him talk about his medical situation.  But what he's gone through is really incredible and we're very happy to have him out here playing well.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT