THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 25, 2000
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JEFF SLUMAN: Well, I got off to a good start and so did Greg. I think that is kind of
one of those infectious things out there when you can both get going early, which really
helps your mental frame of mind out here at TPC. I drove the ball obviously well, and I
was able to -- you don't plan on it, but I was able to drive the ball in good yardage with
my irons numerous times today. It is just one of those things that you can't plan on, but
it happened today, so I felt very comfortable with the irons. And I hit a lot of very good
iron shots and obviously made some putts. Just one of those rounds that kind of clicked
together and just kind of really kept everything going. I didn't -- made a couple of
bogeys that I will go over, but overall I thought I played a good, solid round of golf. It
was just kind of nice to get that one done and over with out here.

JEFF SLUMAN: I think I birdied No. 2. Drove it in the left rough, just barely, had kind
of blasted out. I had a perfect sand wedge. I hit it in there about three feet from about
98 yards. No. 3, downwind again, down left-to-right. I hit a 7-iron after seeing Greg kind
of upshot his 7. I think he tried to hit eight -- like he hit it easy. I thought it was a
full one. Hit it 12-foot left of the hole; made that. 5, good 4-iron in there, from, I
think I had 193? Something like that. To about 12-foot to the right of the hole and rolled
in. I am saying: "Geez, this is kind of really where I want to be." Same thing
as yesterday, I got off to a good start and then I bogeyed 7 again for the third straight
day. So that is going to be one of my goals tomorrow to possibly figure out how to par
that hole. As I did yesterday, I birdied 8. Hit a 3-iron from, I think it was 203. Pin was
in a great location to make birdie, kind of on the front. And Greg and I both hit it in
there. He hit it about 8 foot. I hit it about 10 foot right. I made the putt. Nice drive
on 9. Laid it up with a 4-iron. I think I had 90-something yards again, 98 yards, and pin
was back left. I didn't really feel like I needed to challenge that one so much. I hit it
just about pin-high, but it was about 20-foot right kind of up the hill, and hit it --
went right in the center of the hole. I missed very short birdie chances on 10 and 11. I
got up on 12 and hit it in there 3-wood off the tee. And another real good yardage, my
sand wedge to about 10 foot back of the hole; made that. Then 13 was kind of down
left-to-right hit a 6-iron, I think playing about 190. But you just got to get it to about
180. It is going to feed right down to the hole. Managed to execute that all right, to
about, I think, about 6 foot back of the hole. I made that. Then a bunch of pars. I hit a
9-iron on 17 -- the world scariest shot for four days. Any other day, you know, 361 days
of the year it is a pretty easy shot. But Thursday through Sunday here, it is kind of
nerve-wracking. I hit that about 12-foot left of the hole; made that. Then hit a really
good drive aggressively on 18 down the right side. And I think the pin placement today is
probably the hardest pin placement on 18, at least for me. I was in between yardage, and I
elected to try and cut a 6-iron from 170-something, and hit it a little long and kind of
in the middle of the green and certainly misread it. I read it to break about a foot
left-to-right, and it wound up breaking about six feet. So from there, obviously kind of
ran it by about 7, 8 foot and tried to get it kind of right edge on the second putt. And
it broke about a half a cup or a cup. So all and all, I wasn't all that upset about it.
Obviously would have liked to have not finished with a 3-putt. But the pin there was just
on the right side over that edge, and I felt like 167, to carry with my 7-iron was just
maybe a little too much for me at that time. So you don't want to hit it in most mounds. I
have hit it in there before with it, St. Augustine rough, I mean, I could still be in
there. It is unbelievable how hard and where the ball can stay. I mean, it can stay on a
slope like this, and I remember one year I was-- hit it in there and -- on my 36th hole,
and all I had to do is make 8 to make the cut, and I was down one of those slopes, almost
double hit it. I think I ended up making double-bogey. Could have missed the cut from
there. I kind of learned from that. But maybe next year if I am in the position, I will --
at least I will know how much that putt breaks.

Q. Birdie chances at 10, 11, how short?

JEFF SLUMAN: 10 was maybe six feet, and 11 I drove it perfect. Hit a 4-wood without
going on the green. I hit it exactly where I wanted, just into the bunker on the edge. I
mean, pretty elementary bunker shot. But I had just a little funny stance. Actually got
about this close to the edge (indicating six inches). It hit in the grass, came back in
the bunker. I blasted that about eight, ten feet; missed that. Then I missed it from about
six feet on No. 6 also.

Q. It is possible that some mistakes happen to players on 18 because they are either so
relieved they survived 17 or so ticked off because they might have hit one in the water?
Does concentration lapse a little bit maybe?

JEFF SLUMAN: It certainly can. But I think anybody that has been out and playing under
these conditions for a number of years, you realize, I mean, you have got to really keep
focused right 'til the very end out here; whether you have, you know, goofed up 17 or hit
it in the water on 18. If you lapse again and hit a wild shot in anger or something, you
are only going to kill yourself, because the golf course is going to murder you. You are
going to hit it back in the water or hit it over in those drops that I am talking about
and end up making a big number. So if you let your temper get the best of you out here,
and I think that is one of the great things about this golf course, you really have to
stay as focused as you can.

Q. Is there a textbook way to play 18 out here?

JEFF SLUMAN: Yeah, driver, close, and putt it in.

Q. Does everybody have a theory?

JEFF SLUMAN: Well, I think -- you know, like I said, before, I think it will play
easier if they didn't use the tee that they are using now. They backed it up about 20
yards. And I always thought the hole played a little harder just a little shorter, because
then if you wanted to take a driver, you have to turn it, where the longer hitters have to
turn their 3-wood. Now you can kind of just blast it straight, and it is not going to go
through the fairway on the right into those areas where you have to hit a big sweeping
cut, and you got all those trees there. So this is one of those rare -- I think by
lengthening, it actually makes it a little easier.

Q. Do you still check for divers before your birdie putts on 17?

JEFF SLUMAN: I try not to. I try not to. But I got all the par 3s today, which was a
rarity out here.

Q. Just what do you remember about (inaudible) --

JEFF SLUMAN: Just one of those things, I think the biggest memory I have is you got a
lot of adrenaline going, going for your first win, and it is at the TPC, it is your THE
PLAYERS Championship, and, you know, candidly you are pretty nervous back then. I heard
the splash -- I thought it was a fish. I kind of stepped away, and then I heard all the
booing. I thought they were booing me from stepping away from the ball. I mean the shock -
thing goes through your body, you are like: "Wow, this is really a tough crowd."
(laughter). Then you look up and you see some clown in it having an identity crisis
swimming around. Kind of realize what was going on. But at first, it was unbelievable the
feeling in your body of being booed on the golf course.

Q. You thought they were booing you?

JEFF SLUMAN: Yeah, that is what you originally thought.

Q. How long did it take before you could putt again?

JEFF SLUMAN: Five minutes, I'd say.

Q. Little premature because we don't know what Hal is going to finish up today. Let's
assume it is 11 for argument's sake. Are 7 strokes too much to come back on this course if
conditions stay the same, or have you seen enough evidence from Tiger and --

JEFF SLUMAN: Anything is possible. But I will tell you what, if one guy has a lead like
that, that you won't want to play here, it would be Hal Sutton. He drives it long, he
drives it straight. He has got unbelievable accuracy and ball -- distance control of his
irons. This golf course, he has won it twice here, is really, really suited for his game.
He is not going to make many mistakes. If he goes out and finishes 11 or finishes, let's
say at 13, like I said, nothing is impossible. But somebody better get pretty close to him
today, get up to, eight or nine, I would think. One guy that could probably overcome it
right now would be Tiger. I am not obviously discounting my chances, but I think he would
be the toughest guy on Tour. Even including Tiger, to have a 4-, 5-shot lead at this golf
course under these conditions, it would be the toughest guy on Tour to beat.

Q. (inaudible) Situation not expecting Hal to make any mistakes, you have to start from
that assumption?

JEFF SLUMAN: Absolutely. You can't hope for Hal making mistakes, because he is not
going to. He is that solid, and he is on a roll. And we all know how well he plays
tee-to-green. Unless he wakes up on the wrong side of the bed or something, you can't
expect him to make any mistakes. This golf course punishes some other golfers when you try
and get everything right to the edge and force birdies on your, you know, on yourself. And
especially you can imagine where the Sunday pins are going to be. It is going to be a
tough task. If Hal goes out and continues and knocks two more off today, it is going to be
tough.

Q. Were you aware at any time that you were in second place today?

JEFF SLUMAN: No.

Q. You didn't watch that closely?

JEFF SLUMAN: I am so far removed from the guys that are, you know, they have only got,
six, seven, eight holes -- even if I am in second place, I am thinking, you know, there
they're still going to make a lot of birdies on the back nine or last 10, 12 holes. So at
that point in time, I am just saying: "Get as many under as you can and maybe you
will be in 5th, 6th, 7th place at the end of the day." But I certainly wasn't
thinking about second place at that time.

Q. What is the mindset tomorrow morning?

JEFF SLUMAN: Hopefully it is afternoon time.

Q. I mean --

JEFF SLUMAN: I know. (laughs). I am just going to go out. I could only do and play the
way I can play and I have put a lot of hard work into my game the last two or three weeks.
I played in Greg Norman Members Guest with my coach and won that one, by the way. It was
another title to my name. But I have really worked very hard on my game and I am going to
go out and work on it right now and just play the way I can. I can't try and overpower
anything out there. I am hitting it pretty long and pretty straight. I hope I can get by
my bugaboo holes which are 7 and 16, I haven't played very well this week. Everything else
has been setting up pretty good for me.

Q. How is Greg playing?

JEFF SLUMAN: I think Greg is playing very well. He had a couple of errant shots today,
but I think it's as good as I have seen him swing in a while. When we played together as
Member Guests, I thought he played real well down there. He is hitting the ball good. I
expect things from him and don't be surprised to see him, you know, on top of the
leaderboard at Augusta.

Q. Have you not birdied 16?

JEFF SLUMAN: I have barely parred it. I have parred it the first day, hit it in the
right rough and bogeyed it yesterday and hit it in the right rough and parred it today
with a long 2-putt, I drove it in the right rough. I have been driving it this far in the
right rough everyday (indicating three feet). Either I got to aim further left or go -- or
try and hit a slinger hook out there which isn't my favorite type of shot. But commit to
it and go.

Q. Where is the golf course right now compared to, say, where it was Saturday last year
in terms of severity?

JEFF SLUMAN: Last year, I think was way over the edge last year. Last year's Saturday
was, I think, more difficult than this year's Thursday, although the stroke average says
not. But I think when you consider the stroke average is pretty close and you didn't have
80 guys that were missing the cut, they obviously added it to the stroke average the first
-- on Thursday here and only had 70 guys that were playing real well and that stroke
average was pretty close to Thursday's. So I would say that last year's, even on Saturday
was tougher than Thursday here.

Q. Is there enough water on the course now that tomorrow won't get away from --

JEFF SLUMAN: I would think that they are still going to have to put a little bit down
and hope they do. I thought the golf course -- I have been a little critical of it, but I
think that this year they have done a pretty good job of getting it back under control. I
thought we had a chance for some really horrendous conditions Thursday and it was bad, but
I think it could have been worse.

Q. Curious if you heard what Monty had said earlier this week about Tiger?

JEFF SLUMAN: I didn't hear nor --

Q. At Bay Hill he sensed when he came in the locker room at Bay Hill on Thursday since
Tiger was only one stroke back the tournament was over and everyone was playing for
second. Which everyone one, Hal included, tends to disagree with. I guess my point is --
has he crept into everyone's head where that means players respond to him by thinking they
have to raise their game or they feel overly intimidated by him? One way or another, has
he gotten everybody's attention?

JEFF SLUMAN: Absolutely. You would be crazy not to think that he -- I think a lot of
players realize they have got to get in better shape. Trying to raise their level of their
game, practicing harder and certainly, candidly, there is some players that are probably
intimidated by him and think that if they are 1 up or tied going in the last round, that
they are probably not going to be able to beat him. His record says that if he has got the
lead nobody has ever beat him on Tour except for Eddie, right? Is that right?

Q. Right.

JEFF SLUMAN: I'd take his chances now against him. (laughs).

Q. Nobody has ever won here and then gone on to win at Augusta. Why do you think that
is?

JEFF SLUMAN: I have no idea. It will some day obviously happen, but couldn't even give
you an explanation. I mean, you have got the best field in golf here. You have got a major
atmosphere. Got everything in the world -- maybe after you win here you just -- they are
so exhausted you can't get focused quick enough. I would be curious to see if somebody
wins here and then plays the following week and then goes to Augusta, how well they do. I
mean, that might be --

Q. Duval won back-to-back.

JEFF SLUMAN: Right, last year. I mean, that is extremely difficult to do. So I would
think that if somebody wins here and takes the week off, you know, they might have a
better chance.

Q. Is there something about this course by playing well on this course it doesn't
translate to playing well at Augusta?

JEFF SLUMAN: No, I don't think so. I really don't. I think it is more coincidence than
anything.

JEFF SLUMAN: Thanks.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT