U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2014
Jeff Sluman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JEFF SLUMAN: Is it '88 all over again?  Plus 26 years, I guess.  The golf course is very similar. Today obviously the wind came up in the direction that we were used to, at least that I've been used to in the limited amount of time I have played here. As Scott said just moments ago, the golf course is in perfect shape and it's just a heck of a golf course.  You have to think your way around there.  You have to shape shots high, low, right, and left. You just really have to be patient like any U.S. Open setup.   Q.  You're always competitive, but here you have been very competitive.  Is part of that liking the course?  Is your game suited to it?  JEFF SLUMAN: It certainly helps when you come to a golf course, A, and you like it, and B, you have some success. So like you said, I have been very fortunate to be competitive for a while in that, so I just go about my business.  I like Opens.  I like the setups, the fact that you really have to stay patient out there. I could have gone crazy today.  You know, the first six holes I'm 2-over, had five wedges in my hand.  The par-3 that you didn't hit wedge on, I hit it in there eight feet and I'm 2-over.  You wonder what's going on. It's just a matter of really staying patient and knowing it's a long week.  So I hung in there, and, you know, turn it around.  Doesn't happen all the time.  I think in U.S. Opens, if you talk to most of the winners, they'd say their patience level that week was very, very high.   Q.  Keeping it in the fairway.  You seem to be very consistent that way off the tee.  JEFF SLUMAN: I think patience is less about keeping it in the fairway and more about when you miss fairways or miss greens or hit it in the fairway, and then you miss a green like I did a couple of times with wedges, you know, you can a lot of times say to yourself, These are shots I've got to get close, I have to make birdie here because there aren't a lot of birdie holes out there. You kind of goof up and you miss the green, maybe make bogey.  You know, you can kind of, especially in this heat, your brain could be cooking a little bit.  So that's really where you have to stay patient.   Q.  You've got to like your position, because it's going to get tougher.  The fairways are going to get harder, harder to control the ball and all the other stuff that you know about.  What do you think about your position right now?  JEFF SLUMAN: I'm done with my two days.  I'm 3-under par.  You guys want to talk to me.  I feel pretty good about where I'm at.  I'm really not going to worry about anything else going on out there. I will say I do like to play late-early, get both rounds in within 24 hours if you're playing well.  Remember, Wayne Levi said if you're playing well, you get two rounds in within 24 hours, and if you play bad, you can catch the flight and get home. Fortunately I don't have to worry about that.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT