ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 3, 2019
Lasith Malinga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English first.   
 Q.  As a senior player on the team, what do you tell your teammates as to how to handle the fact that you had a bad first game?  Confidence must be down.  How do you tell them to come through this before a match like the game tomorrow?  
LASITH MALINGA: Yeah, I think first match back, New Zealand, we know how tough these condition.  We try our best but didn't get our way.   
We have this tournament nine matches, but just second match starting tomorrow.  Before the match both team are same.  No runs, no wickets.  Still the same.   
Whoever is doing best first half innings, they can carry on the winning way.  That's why we are looking forward to tomorrow.  Do our best after 10:30.  I feel we have talent but not much experience in these conditions, but people to have to realise what team expecting this situation.  We see that Dimuth have good temperament to play this condition.  I feel we have also top seven batsman.  They have game responsibility.Bowlers have a big role to play tomorrow's game we never know what's going on, who is bowling first or second.  But still, bowlers can change the game.  I still believe that. Then I feel players need to get confidence, but we can improve skill at the moment.  We need to get mentally tough.  And all the pressure with us, yes, but we have to play free mind and do our best tomorrow's game.   
 Q.  Afghanistan had a really good Asia Cup.  Also won the qualifying round; also had a very good match against Pakistan.  What's the conversation in the changing room?  Any major changes for tomorrow's match been discussed?  Shall we expect any major changes?  
LASITH MALINGA: I didn't have any idea about what we are going to play tomorrow, but thing is we know exactly the combination.  Combination, most of the team is going 7-4 combination. Still, we didn't much think about opposition.  At the moment we want to be concerned with our own skill and how we going to play.  That's what we are most concerned thing. Whoever is bat, whoever is bowl, he have to get perfect game tomorrow.  We need a must-win game in this competition.  We need a must-win game tomorrow.  We try our best in accuracy and tactically, everything hopefully will be there tomorrow.   
 Q.  What's the main focus been on in training?  Has it been largely on the batsmen having to step up after the first game?  
LASITH MALINGA: Most thing we need to get a patience.  Patience very important.  We know these condition we can have someone get 60, 70 runs and still some ball can move.  We have a bit of patience; we have to analyse the condition.  Whoever is the batsman, he have to finish the game.  Whoever is there, he have to finish the game.  Whoever get responsibility, bowler or batsman, whoever is the best tomorrow.   
 Q.  This is quite a long tournament and you've obviously been playing T20 cricket.  You haven't played as much one-day cricket.  How is the body going to hold up for the entire tournament?  
LASITH MALINGA: Yeah, exactly.  50 overs very hard, but T20 also hard because all the pressure is there.  One-day wicket we have time to adjust.   
Then I feel at the moment I didn't get concerned about my body feeling.  I always concern how I'm going to do best for the team.  I'll manage my spells, maybe two spells, maybe three spells.  Maybe I don't know what's captain expecting. In the situation you throw the ball for me and I try to do my best.  This is my thought.   
 Q.  Is there a problem with the knees at the moment?  
LASITH MALINGA: No, I already 100%, and then I looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  What challenge are you expecting from Afghanistan tomorrow?  
LASITH MALINGA: I think they have good experience players because most of the players play in franchise cricket.  They have that experience.  They know how to accelerate and they have all that confidence.  Few people from IPL and others have been playing franchise cricket.   
The very important thing is the pressure handling.  I think they have more experience, especially handling players.  That's the big challenge for us.  Then still I believe if we do our best, we can see good finishing end of the day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT