HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 23, 2019
Wang Xinyu
Zhu Lin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DUAN YINGYING, YANG ZHAOXUAN/WANG XINYU, ZHU LIN
3-6, 6-3, 10-8
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. It's been a shame for this match. You started well winning the first set and got a game point in the second set and you're also in the perfect position in the tiebreak. So can you talk about this first game in this tournament?
WANG XINYU: We started with aggression and it's a good start. In the second set the opponent made some changes, we didn't handle several points. So I think in terms of experience and the treatment of the critical points, we didn't do well. But I think we still have space to improve, considering this is only the second time we have teamed up.
ZHU LIN: At the beginning of the match the opponents are not keeping up with our rhythm. I think we are fast, but later on they catch up at the baseline and gave us pressure. And then they are also very close to the net, so that means we do not know where to hit the ball. So still we are happy considering we haven't played many times before this.
Q. This is going to be the last match of the year, can you review yourself, what are the highlights and what are the disappointments for yourself for the entire season and what would be the goals going forward?
WANG XINYU: Probably this is not going to be my last tournament this year, but it's approaching the end of the year. And I think I have fully grown up and played a lot of ITF tournaments, built up confidence, including making it into the main draw in the U.S. Open in August. So this year has been good for me and I want to thank my team for supporting me.
Q. What are your, what has been your disappointment?
WANG XINYU: I think the disappointment has been at the beginning of the season due to my physical issue. I started quite late in the season, but I'm still happy that I can catch up later on and find out a solution that suits myself and makes it better.
Q. We know that in your team you have other coach, but the main coach is still your father as the leader of the team. So what would be the issue of having your dad as your coach?
WANG XINYU: I think it's not that one of the coach is controlling everything, they have been talking to each other, expressing their ideas and then making decisions based on full communication. My dad has been always with me, so I think he knows me better and he can give me advice from my perspective. It's easier for me to understand what he's trying to say.
But the downside of having my dad as the coach is that sometimes you tend to ignore things they say when they are very close to you. But if the same thing is said by the other coach, it's more enlightening.
Q. Every time when there's a young player people would say she is going to be next someone, but I think this is the time of diversified personalities. Are you against this notion? People say you're like Sharapova.
WANG XINYU: No, I'm not against the idea because I like Sharapova very much myself and it's nice to hear people call me Sharapova. But I think I would not try to replicate everything from Sharapova. I think I am myself, everybody is different.
Q. Since you're the champion in Nanchang tournament, do you have plan to keep on as a team?
WANG XINYU: We will still mostly focus on singles and in case there are tournaments where we want to play doubles, we will definitely be teaming up in the first place because we feel happy to be together in doubles.
Q. This is the second tournament you played together, why did you start as a team in the first place and who is more active on the court?
WANG XINYU: Actually, Zhu Lin approached me. Before Nanchang tournament I haven't thought about a partner and after U.S. Open, Zhu Lin asked me if I want to play with her, so it is doing pretty well since we have teamed up.
ZHU LIN: When I asked her, I thought we played the same style and we both are focusing on singles, so it's easier for us to team up.
And when we are playing as a team I think I'm the one who is doing the easy job and she's the one making more effort.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT