CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2019
Wang Xinyu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
WANG YAFAN/Wang Xinyu   
6-1, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What did you learn from this match that you can use to get better going forward?  
WANG XINYU: I mean, it's still little bit nervous for me to play on a big stage like this. I guess I learned a lot from Yafan. She's a great player. Was great match.   
I guess I was just a little bit too tight at the beginning and couldn't, like, get things together, just manage to play my tennis.   
 Q.  How does it feel playing a fellow Chinese player at a Chinese tournament? Is that special for you?  
WANG XINYU: Yeah, it's kind of special for me. Especially I know Yafan for a long time. I know she just won her first WTA title this year. I felt lucky to play her here at China Open. I think it's a great experience for me.   
 Q.  You weren't able to break her serve during the match. What about her serve made it so challenging?  
WANG XINYU: I think it's the speed of her second serve. Like usually it comes fast to body, so it made it a little bit difficult to attack on her second serves.   
 Q.  When will we see you play again next?  
WANG XINYU: I'm playing Tianjin next week.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  You celebrated your 18th birthday two days ago. What decisions did you make about tennis?  
WANG XINYU: Well, recently I've been playing matches in China. These are big tournaments. I wish to finish all these matches in good health.   
 Q.  We all know your team is quite professional. Could you tell us something about your team members.  
WANG XINYU: My father is in my team. A coach from Serbia, another physio from Croatia. About rehab, I have a partnership with an institute from Nanjing.   
 Q.  Congratulations on your breakthrough in the US Open, being able to play in a Grand Slam. How did you feel? What did you learn from those matches?  
WANG XINYU: Thank you. Well, in the US Open, it was my first time in the qualifications in a Grand Slam. I went step by step into the main draw. It was a magical experience. It was great encouragement.   
I saw that I was able to fight against top players. I felt that I was able to do it. It was great encouragement.   
 Q.  You were trailing in this match. What were the key points? What could you have improved? Did you think about consulting with your coach?  
WANG XINYU: I think she returned very deep to the baseline. It was quite difficult for me. I wasn't able to make any changes. I was a little bit tight. From the baseline, I wasn't able to play my game.   
Regarding the key points, I lost some of the key points.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT