NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: BLUES VS BRUINS
June 7, 2019
Jay Bouwmeester
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Jay, you're one win away from the Cup.  How exciting is that?  
JAY BOUWMEESTER: Honestly, kind of in the process.  I'm really not getting excited or anything.  I think this whole Playoffs, the focus is you've just got to stay even keel, not get too high, too low.  Everyone knows what's at stake, obviously, but when you're this late in the season, it doesn't really change.  We know they're going to come with a big push, and we've got to have our best game.   
 Q.  With the thousands of games that you've played at all levels, is it impossible to keep this one like another game, given that you've never played this game before?  
JAY BOUWMEESTER: No, I think we've all always played big games.  It doesn't matter how old you are or how many games you've played.  Games of significance, I think you just really rely on the things that you've put in place over your career, no matter how long it's been, you know, routines and things that get you ready to play.  You rely on that so when the game comes, it's hockey.   
 Q.  How much time did you have to celebrate last night's win before you move on to focusing on the next one?  
JAY BOUWMEESTER: Last night, then you move on.  I mean, it's -- you know, we're in our fourth series here, so you know how things can go, and things can change, and you don't want to get too far ahead of yourself.  It really is, you hear it probably every day from every single guy.  You've got to stay in the moment, and there's a process to it, so you've just got to stick with it.   
 Q.  Berube mentioned that for the first home game here, Stanley Cup Final home game, maybe the team got a little too caught up in the emotions of the moment.  How do you avoid that with the game here Sunday?  
JAY BOUWMEESTER: Well, I think we're three games down the road from that, so that's all more experience.  We have a loud building, so it'll be loud and people will be excited, but that's an equal thing this time of year.  They were the same last night in Boston and they came out real hard.  Yeah, it's a bunch of noise, and you just have to kind of look beyond it and focus on the task at hand.   
 Q.  What have you guys been able to do on the penalty kill against their power play the last two games?  You've been able to keep them quiet.  
JAY BOUWMEESTER: I don't know, the things that you generally try to do on any penalty kill.  If you can keep them from getting in the zone and setting up, then that's obviously number one.  You know, this far in the series teams make adjustments back and forth, and I think their power play did a good job adjusting early, and then we had to change some things.  That's just the way it goes.   
 Q.  With Jordan Binnington having a performance like that last night, does it really surprise anyone anymore because he's been doing that since he's been called up?  
JAY BOUWMEESTER: Yeah, I don't think so.  He had lots of early questions, and I think that's kind of the response.  Nothing really surprises us now.  He's been with us for a long time.  He's a big part of our team, and any team at this point, the goaltending is huge in the Playoffs.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT