NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 22, 2002
Jay Bouwmeester
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Jay, any disappointment in not being the first overall pick at all? 

JAY BOUWMEESTER:   Not really.  I went to the same place.  I said all along, it's just exciting to get drafted and have the opportunity to hopefully one day play. 

Q.  Can you talk about your reactions, as they were flip-flopping the first pick, and did you think you might suddenly be going to Columbus? 

JAY BOUWMEESTER:   I didn't know what to think.  There was a lot of talk about that stuff going on, and you just had to sort of wait and see how things unfolded.  I wasn't too worried about it. 

Q.  How do you feel about going to Florida?  They said that you could play a lot of minutes for them next year; how do you feel about that? 

JAY BOUWMEESTER:   Well, it's exciting.  If you can go there and play, going anywhere, it's a dream to play in the NHL  no matter where you go, it's exciting and you have to be thankful for the opportunity. 

Q.  Have they talked to you about the possibility of making the team next year and what you need to do? 

JAY BOUWMEESTER:   I've just talked to them briefly.  Probably get into a little later on.

Q.  What do you think you need to do to prepare yourself to make a bid for the team? 

JAY BOUWMEESTER:   I've got to get stronger.  I'll be playing against a lot of older guys.  Defensively, stronger in the corners, in front of the net, that sort of thing.  But that comes as you get older and you work on it.  Is there anybody.

Q.  Is there anybody on the team that you're excited about playing with? 

JAY BOUWMEESTER:   Well you look at it, they have a lot of real young guys, a lot of good young guys, and that's exciting to sort of have some to grow with.  A lot of guys are in the same situation, just getting started, guys that can sort of help you threw it, I guess.

Q.  What do you think about the chance to play for Mike Keenan? 

JAY BOUWMEESTER:   Well, you look where he's been in the past and how he's gotten guys to perform.  He's really helped guys along.  That's pretty exciting.  If you can help you be the best player that you're going to be, that's really exciting.

Q.  He helped get Chris Pronger started in St.  Louis, what do you think about that, a similar situation?

JAY BOUWMEESTER:   Yeah, like I said I think he's done that to a lot of guys.  He can make you realize your potential, and hopefully, I can be in that same situation. 

Q.  Were you trying to figure out what was going on up there when they were making the flips and then Atlanta took a goaltender second?  Were you wondering what was going on? 

JAY BOUWMEESTER:   Yeah, I guess so.  I think everyone was.  (Smiles).  I don't know, there's nothing I can do about it.  Just watch how it unfolds, and it's all part of the excitement, I guess. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT