US OPEN
August 31, 2005
Scoville Jenkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  What did you think of the whole experience being out there tonight?  Were you pleased with it?
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  The atmosphere was great.  The crowd was great.  I played pretty good.  I got off to a little slow start, but in the second set I definitely had chances.  
 
Q.  How did you assess him?  Did he surprise you or was he exactly what you expected?
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Yeah, he was a little what I expected and a little more unexpected, too.  He came out hitting heavy with his forehand, hitting heavy in warm-up.  I knew it was going to be a tough match then.  I served pretty well today.  That really kept me in the match a lot.  
 
Q.  What were your nerves like at the beginning of the match?
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  They were all right.  Weren't bad.  I was very excited to be in the match, very pumped up and ready to play.  
 
Q.  In the third set you looked like between points you were really kind of hobbling, but then during the points you looked terrific.  Can you talk about gutting out the third set?
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  My toe, it's falling off (smiling).  Yeah, it's getting ready to fall off right now.  But during the point, I mean, I didn't even think about it.  You just think about getting the ball back.  After the point, you feel the pain a little bit.  That was it.  
 
Q.  Was there any point in the match, second set, one break either way, you could really make something happen?  Were you just so in the moment, you never let yourself think that?
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  I was trying to break.  It was very tough conditions out there with the wind.  Each game I was ready to break.  I knew I could get it.  Second set, especially when I had plenty of chances.  I had a Love-40 game where I had plenty of chances to break.  
 
Q.  I'm sure you're not pleased with the results, but does playing that well against the No. 2 player in the world convince you that great things are ahead of you, that your future is pretty bright?
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Definitely.  I mean, he's No. 2 in the world.  I came in and I thought I did pretty good for myself coming in, playing with him.  I played pretty well.  I stepped up.  I did my game plan, what me and my coach said.  It gives me a lot of confidence knowing that I can be right there with 2 one day.  
 
Q.  Is it the kind of performance you envisioned before you stepped on the court tonight?
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  It was a little bit.  But in another outcome.  
 
Q.  A small note in the New York Times said that your agent said that he thought by the end of this tournament you would eventually get a shoe deal.  Has it happened yet?  If not, do you think it will happen?
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  It has not happened yet.  I don't know if it will happen.  It's up in the process right now.  You have to talk to them, not me.  We'll see what happens.  
 
Q.  You need shoes that won't blister. 
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Shoes that won't break my toenail off.  That would be great.  
 
Q.  Have you ever met another Scoville?
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Actually in ninth grade, my social studies teacher was Mr. Scoville, his last name was Scoville.  So it was kind of funny to hear everybody else calling Mr. Scoville, and that was my name, too.  Spelled the exact same way.  
 
Q.  From what you'd heard and seen about Nadal throughout this year, anything that took you by surprise?  Size, demeanor before the match, anything? 
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Definitely in between points, he was very professional.  A lot of 15-30, 15-All points, he took his time tremendously, make sure he toweled off, took his time.  His serve was bigger than I expected, too.  He made a lot of first serves at times, pressured me on the first serve.  Especially with the windy conditions down there.  
 
Q.  What happens to you now for the next week or two week?
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  I'm playing doubles tomorrow.  I'll be sticking around, yes.  
 
Q.  Actually, that's today. 
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  I play doubles later today (smiling). 
 
Q.  What is your schedule?  Where do you go next?
 
SCOVILLE JENKINS:  I'm not sure right now.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT