US OPEN
August 29, 2005
Scoville Jenkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  How did you regather yourself after the fourth set?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  A lot of energy from the crowd.  I've dreamed about going five sets at a Grand Slam all my life.  I just thought about, this is a great time.  Just take one point at a time. 

Q.  Were you down at all after the fourth set?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Yeah, I was a little down that I couldn't pull it back out.  I mean, there was a fifth set.  I kept telling myself, "There's more, just get ready." 

Q.  When you had a crack to get back in the fifth set, how difficult was that?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  It was great to get back in there after I got broken.  So I knew I had to keep serving, keep holding my serve to get the momentum back in my gear. 

Q.  The way the crowd was reacting, everyone cheering for you, is this the first time you've experienced anything like that?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Oh, yeah, that was the first time I ever experienced anything like this.  It's a great feeling that somebody wanted to give you a hug after they've seen you play tennis (smiling). 

Q.  Were they cute?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  No, it was little older moms (smiling). 

Q.  How do you control your emotions in that environment when it is a night match, the US Open, you have the crowd going?  How do you keep it all together? 

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  I've been playing so many matches now, I mean, you go through the same thing every time.  You don't want to just see you're in a night match, you're in the crowd, let it overtake you.  You just do it like every other match.  You take it one step at a time and just go in slow motion for yourself. 

Q.  Another crucial point in that tiebreak was at 5-4.  You hit a massive kicker, couldn't put away the next shot.  Were you thinking you were going to let it slip away? 

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  No, I told myself, "It's 5-4 and you have another chance at 5-All."  At 5-All, I was like, "Here's your chance.  You're serving.  You can control where this ball goes."  I just took it one point at a time.  I hit a nice out-wide serve to go up 6-5.

Q.  The final ball, how big did that second serve look?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  It looked very big.  It was like a beach ball.  I just told myself, "Keep your eye on the ball and just swing.  That's the ball you want."  I didn't want to just get it back in play.  That was the ball I wanted, and I just went for it. 

Q.  What has this past year been like for you?  Last year was a big splash for you here in New York. 

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  This past year I've been playing a lot of challengers and futures.  It's been a little rough because you start at the bottom.  I'm trying to get back up here.  Right before here, I played New Haven, got a lot of confidence.  I'm starting to feel good now. 

Q.  Do you belong here?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  I feel like I do, yes. 

Q.  Have you had any conversations with Andy since last year's Open?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Not many conversations.  Just a little talking here and there. 

Q.  What does he tell you?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  He told me it's a grind, everything's out there a grind.  To get to the top, you got to start from the bottom.  Never get discouraged.  Never get too discouraged about a loss or get too up on a win. 

Q.  You've only played two US Open matches.  Does it feel like you've been through so much? 

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Yeah, I felt I did because my first US Open here I played on Ashe against the defending champion.  It couldn't get any better than that, playing there.  So I knew this time when I come back in, I'm ready for that again, Ashe or Louis Armstrong or whatever.  I've already been on that court playing.

Q.  Have you played a five-setter before?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  This was my first.

Q.  How were you feeling health-wise.

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  I was feeling fine.  I do a lot of good conditioning with my coach, Torrey, at the (indiscernible) Tennis Academy in Atlanta.  I was prepared for a five-setter today. 

Q.  Talk about Nadal. 

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Yes, I play him next.

Q.  What are your thoughts?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  I think it will a good match.  I'm very excited to play him.  I know he's the French Open champion.  I'm ready to play. 

Q.  Why would you have any kind of opportunity to make any inroads with him where other players have not?  What would be your edge, if you have any?

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Obviously, this is the US Open.  This is my home ground right here.  I have the crowd going with me.  Use the crowd's energy to play the game. 

Q.  You know it's going to be on the big stadium. 

SCOVILLE JENKINS:  Oh, yes. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT