KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 2, 2009
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Let's go through your scorecard quickly. You started on 10, so bogey on 11.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. I hit it to the right about 10 and just hit that first putt too hard. 
 You know, I think just the speed of the greens kind of caught me off guard this morning. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: What about the three-putt? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: No. It was on the fringe. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay. You used your putter three times.
 ANGELA STANFORD: I used my putter three times. (Laughs).
 MIKE SCANLAN: How far was it? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: About 15 feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Birdie 15.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Hit an 8-iron to probably 25 feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Eagle 18.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Hit a really good 7-wood from the fairway, just caught the green, and then I guess circled around and came back down the ridge and had like maybe 20 feet, 15, 20 feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Birdie 4.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Hit a really good 7-iron to about 10 feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: 7.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Hit a pitching wedge to -- that was about 35 feet. That was -- yeah. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: And 8.
 ANGELA STANFORD: 8. Hit kind of a cut 5-iron into that green to about 35 feet again.
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Angela. Nice round today. Five under par. Pretty good way to start off the Kraft Nabisco Championship. I know you said you've had some trouble on your first rounds here before. What was different today? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think just the new-found confidence. 
 You know, I really spent some time talking to my caddie in the last few holes of my Pro Am yesterday and really just trying to be aware that it's a new year. It's a new team. Everything's new, and I tried really hard to go in to this morning thinking that.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions for Angela. Please use the mic. 

 Q. What's the key to you having more confidence this week than it was a year ago?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, I believe I can hit certain shots, better shots. 
 I feel like I can spin the ball a little bit more, so the shots that this course calls for, I feel like I have the confidence to hit those shots, where in the past I didn't have maybe all the shots that I needed to play this golf course.

 Q. The second shot call for. I mean you got to the fairway -- (inaudible). 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. I think so. I mean I don't know. I think if you don't -- there's trouble everywhere. 
 When it's off the tee and then it goes to the green and then it's on the green. I don't know. I don't know how I feel about that just yet. 

 Q. I see you're into this round... (inaudible). 
 ANGELA STANFORD: It is pure. That's the good thing about pure, fast greens. If you can get it on line, it's going to roll out, and I think you'll make more putts on greens like these than bumpier greens. 
 So if you can get your speed down and you get the right line, the ball starts rolling at the hole and usually it doesn't miss. 
 So that's the good thing about those pure greens. They are kind of firm, and the wind is starting to pick up and apparently it's supposed to blow tomorrow, too. I think that's probably going to be the factor, the wind more so than the greens.

 Q. Angela, we came in here... (inaudible). 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, maybe if you're going to be there in all the putting drills we did yesterday. (Laughs). 
 She was avoiding me. We do a lot of games. We do a long speed drill and then we do a shorter game. I always beat her on the speed drills, 20 bucks each time. I think we came out even. So she beat me a couple times. 
 I don't know. I think a lot of times younger players, you know, they get a lot of success early, and golf is a tough game, and she's got a lot going on in her life. And good stuff. Not necessarily bad stuff. It's just -- you know, I think sometimes there's just some distractions, good and bad. 

 Q. (Inaudible). 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Very much so. Yes. You know, you look at the weather and you try to go -- I mean I knew what it said on the forecast. I knew the weather tomorrow, and you think I'm going to go out and do well. 
 Doesn't always happen, but I think it's in the back of the ball player's mind just like it's going to rain tomorrow. It was in the back of my mind. I think any time on the front nine the wind wasn't blowing much. So kind of you're trying to take advantage of that. 

 Q. How important was it that you get that early -- everybody wants it early, but... (inaudible).
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. You know, I think for me it kind of validated the end of last year. 
 I had a really busy off season, and it was short, but sometimes you don't know if it's just a streak in golf or if your game is really getting better, and I think the win in Hawaii made me feel like, okay, my game's getting better. 
 You know, it was a streak, and it was a great streak, but my game is getting better and better. 
 So it kind of validated my confidence in that area, in that respect.
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Angela, thanks a lot. Great round.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT