HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 7, 2009
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Angela, congratulations on a bogey-free, 6-under-par 66. You're in contention for the lead and already have eight top 10 finishes in your last eight starts. Are you feeling that you're on a roll? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I guess so. I hadn't really stopped to think about it. I was too busy, I guess. But you know, I really feel comfortable with my shots and the way I'm chipping the ball, the way I'm rolling the ball on the greens. 
 So everything's just really comfortable. I think any golfer will tell you when you get in the zone, you just ride it as long as you can so. 

 Q. Talk about your friendship with Katherine, can you maybe tell us how that developed in recent times and how much fun you'll have playing with her tomorrow, hopefully? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, Katherine and I didn't play college golf together I don't think. But I knew she played at Pepperdine and came out on tour. We both did a fellowship together. 
 And the last couple years we've been in the same small group. I've just really enjoyed getting to know her. We share a lot of similarities with our faith. She's just a great person. She's got a great heart. She always has a big smile on her face. I think that's what's easy to be around and just a great person. 

 Q. It's quite easy to like someone if you win every time you play in the final group with them though? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. I said that earlier. Katherine's probably going to think that I did this on purpose today to get with her in the final round on the final day. 
 So, yeah, I mean, I enjoy playing golf with her. I enjoy hanging out with her. You know, I think going into tomorrow, if we are in the final group, you know, we're both trying to win. If she does and I don't, I'll be happy for her. 
 Obviously I want to win, but we're friends until we cross that line, and then as soon as we're done, then we're friends begin. We're both going at each other while we're out there. But we're happy otherwise. 

 Q. I don't know if you've had a chance to look at the leaderboard. Lorena is 2 back. She came from behind last week. We know how low she can go. Is it realistic with so many players between her and the lead that she could still be a factor tomorrow? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Oh, yeah, that's like asking if Tiger Woods could come back. There's a reason why she's the number one player in the world. I think on this golf course you can go low but you can also go very high. For a player like her, if she gets it going tomorrow, she can have as good a chance as anybody.

 Q. Even compared to Lorena though, you and Katherine are right up there as the hottest players on the planet, aren't you? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, yeah. You know, Katherine's playing great also. I don't know. I think it's a confidence thing. And Katherine and I haven't talked about it really. We kind of laugh about it if it's brought up. But I think it's the same for her. I don't want to speak for her. 
 I think you gain that confidence it's like a snow ball, it just keeps going. You know, I can tell she has a lot of confidence right now. So it's the same for me. Just kind of get addicted to winning and playing well. So I think we're both there right now. 

 Q. You shot 6 under today, why do you think you played so well today? Have you gotten used to the weather and the conditions here? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, I think I played well today because I double bogeyed my last hole yesterday. I was pretty fired up when I came off the course yesterday. Just really upset with myself. I felt like I'd gotten away from some of the things that have put me in these positions. 
 So today I tried to get back to basics. And really get back to the things that I've done the past couple of tournaments that have maybe put me in contention. And the weather, you're going to get a rain delay every afternoon it's fine. I like it here, so I'm okay with it. 

 Q. Can you tell us about the differences between you and Katherine may have? And tell us something about Katherine that we do not know? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Oh, differences? I'm not sure. You know, I think our games are fairly similar. I think she's probably a lot happier on the course than I am. She looks happier than I do. I've been told I look very angry all the time. I'm really not, I'm just thinking. So I really have to on concentrate to think. So that's probably is. He she definitely looks happier than I do. 
 Something that you don't know? Oh, I don't know. She likes to surf. You probably already know that. I don't know. To tell you the truth. I'm sorry. 

 Q. I'm presuming you go to play a round like tomorrow, you have a game plan in mind. What are players charging from behind, what happens? Do you have to be careful not to change your game plan or overreact? What happens then? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, I mean, the hard part about final rounds is, you know, especially this deep. I would think any player within four or five shots has a chance. 
 So when somebody starts moving up the leaderboard it's hard to ignore that. But, you know, if you have a game plan you stick with it and you can execute, it shouldn't matter. So but I think there is a point where if you're coming down the last few holes and you're one or two back, you may have to fire at a pin that you wouldn't normally. But you're just trying to win at that point. If you put yourself in that position. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT