SBS OPEN AT TURTLE BAY
February 13, 2009
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: Angela, interesting day out there for you given the conditions, but you escaped pretty much unscathed, one birdie, 17 pars. Talk about your round, and talk about the conditions.
 ANGELA STANFORD: You know, I think that might have been one of the toughest rounds I can remember in a long time. At one point on No. 6 I was having flashbacks to Turnberry in '02. Literally was having a hard time keeping the umbrella even sideways. And put my rain pants on my bag, so I got a little nervous there for a second because I thought if it continues to rain, we're in trouble. 
 So it definitely was one of those days -- and I don't even remember having that many pars, and it's so hard that you have to focus so much on each shot, I mean for me that's good because I kind of get lost in what I'm doing, and it was one of the toughest rounds I've played in a while.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions? 

 Q. Was par a good score today?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. You know, and that was my whole deal going into the day. You know, you want to give yourself as many chances as possible for birdie, but par is not bad at all. A lot of times I had to tap in for par, for me it also takes a lot of stress off. 
 If you're tapping in for par every hole, the few holes that you do have to kind of grind, there's still some energy there, but you know, if you're grinding all day and you're having to make 8 to 10-footers for par all day, it's going to wear on you.

 Q. Did you know it would be this kind of day when you saw the wind this morning?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. I think just kind of glancing at the leaderboard before we started, I mean nobody was really making a move. So it was one of those things where you just kind of bear down and you go, and birdies are great, but par, again, is not bad.

 Q. Talk about playing with Michelle tomorrow.
 ANGELA STANFORD: You know, I've never played with Michelle, so I don't really know what to expect. I don't really know, you know -- I don't know. 
 I mean I'm sure there will be a lot of people out. I'm sure she'll be excited. So I don't really know what to expect, but at the same time I'm just kind of doing my deal. I'm not paying attention.

 Q. Do you draw on good experiences from last year tomorrow?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. I mean fortunately some of those memories are still pretty fresh, and you know, I know that I need to got off to a quick start, and quick start doesn't always mean 2 or 3-under. It means not going backwards in the beginning. So for me I just need to get out there and get a couple of pars, maybe birdies under my belt and go. 

 Q. Is this kind of a 7-person race? Everyone from 3-under and better?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Apparently the wind's supposed to blow maybe a touch harder tomorrow. So it's anybody's ballgame. I mean you could go backwards real fast on this golf course, and the golf course going sideways, yeah.

 Q. Do you like playing in the final group?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yes. Well, I take that back. You know, I don't know. I don't like it, but I'm also comfortable. I think if I wouldn't have had the last events that I did last year, tomorrow might be different. So I feel like the end of last year helped me learn how to be comfortable in that position.

 Q. Why are you comfortable now?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Just because I know what to expect. I know I'm going to be nervous. I know what happens when I get nervous. My swing gets quick. I know that if I make a par, it's okay. You know, I've learned that all of those are good things, making pars or knowing that you're nervous and what's going to happen. 
 So I'm comfortable with how I'm going to react tomorrow, just because I guess it's still so fresh. 

 Q. What angered you at No. 9?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Second shot and the chip and the putt, and the tee shot actually. You know, I started missing fairways left, and then I hit a bad 7-wood. 
 The only reason I got away with it is because I hit it thin and it rolled out. 
 The chip shot I couldn't make up my mind which club I wanted to hit, and then I hit a bad putt, so you have to weigh thinking that's a hole today that you have to birdie. 

 Q. Knowing Wie was a stroke up today, what was your thought process going into the day?
 ANGELA STANFORD: You know, I actually said that to my caddy on number -- we were walking out to number 13. I said, okay. I'm set up. I'm setting this faster and I'm defensive. We're playing very defensively. And you can do that. 
 When the wind starts blowing like this, you want to start aiming the middle of the green, well, but you still have to be -- you have to have conservative targets, but play aggressively, and I wasn't doing that towards the end of the day. 
 But when I came out, I thought, yeah, the wind's blowing, but I can still make birdies. Just because the wind's howling doesn't mean you stop making birdies. So I felt like I went into the day trying to attack the golf course still. And then as the day went on, you realize it's tough. I kind of got defensive.

 Q. Any trouble on other holes?
 ANGELA STANFORD: No. Well, I think I made like a 10, 12-footer for par on 10, and again, I was very defensive on the fairway. Where I should have hit 5-iron, I hit 6-iron. I didn't want to hit the shot I was supposed to hit. So I tried to hit a 6-iron and it ballooned, and I'm on the side of the green and the pin's in the back. 
 And that's the same thing I said to my caddy, that's the wrong club, because I'm scared to hit it. So I just got defensive. 

 Q. Was that a big par save at No. 10?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. That was pretty big, because you know, I felt like I got lucky at nine. I felt like I moved on because I hit a great tee shot on ten, but if I would have missed that putt there, thinking I lost nine. Yeah, that was pretty good. 

 Q. Talk about writing down your goals at the end of last season.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Any kind of things, I guess. Being okay with par. Being confident that I can string together birdies at any time, and really thinking about what I'm trying to do to the golf ball, like what kind of shot am I trying to hit at that time. Am I trying to cut it, trying to hook it, trying to hit it low, high. That really keeps me in the moment and keeps the fun in it for me.

 Q. Were you surprised that Wie is off to a good start?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yes and no. Yes in that she's probably very comfortable here. Okay. That was the no part. (Laughs). No, because she's probably very comfortable, and she's not a rookie. 
 But yes, in that I mean all eyes are on her, and she is a rookie, and it is her first official, you know, event as a member of our Tour. So kind of yes and no.

 Q. Do you take comfort know that you played in a lot of wind in Texas growing up?
 ANGELA STANFORD: No. You know, it's funny, my dad was on the phone, I was talking to him last night and I was going -- he goes, you know, people always say you're from Texas and you should enjoy playing with the wind. 
 He goes, I think that's a bunch of crap. I don't know anybody that likes the wind. 
 I said, yeah, that's true, Dad. 
 I don't want it to blow harder. But that's what I said walking up, it blows this hard at home, I go in. And the only reason I didn't go in a few days before I left is because I was trying to get ready for here. 
 But yes, I mean I think growing up playing in the wind, you know how your swing is going to respond. You know -- I mean and it's weird. I'll hit it lower in the wind, and I'm not doing it on purpose. I think my body is just hitting it lower. So I think you just know how to respond because you've seen it so much. 

 Q. Do you have the advantage tomorrow, having recently won, as opposed to Wie?
 ANGELA STANFORD: You know, I'm a big believer in you learn how to win, but she's a little different in that she's such a great talent. So the curve for her gets smaller because she's so talented. And you know, I think there are ways to win a golf tournament and there's certain things you have to do to win. Well, she makes up for what she doesn't know with her talent. 
 So the few that come along like that don't need as much time to learn. I was a late bloomer. I needed every time, the good and the bad, to learn how to win, and I'm still learning. But she's just a great talent, so her learning curve is a lot smaller.

 Q. Have you ever played someone's home course where they were the favorite?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Lorena's backyard. Yeah. (Laughs). 
 You know, I like it. I like it. It's fun, because you know they're pulling for her, but that doesn't mean they're pulling against me. They're going to be great fans, and it's fun for them. It's going to be fun for them if she wins. It's going to be fun if I win. So I expect the fans will be out tomorrow and they'll have a lot of fun. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Angela, thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT