SBS OPEN AT TURTLE BAY
February 12, 2009
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Should we do your card first? 

 ANGELA STANFORD: Sure. 

 Q. Birdie, three?
 ANGELA STANFORD: We went for it in two, hit a 3-wood up there, chipped over the bunker and actually didn't make it to the green. It was just off the green and probably made a 20-footer for birdie off the green.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay. Seven.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Seven, hit a really good sand wedge, about 10, 12 out, pitching wedge to three feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay. Nine.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Nine, went for it again with the 3-wood into the right grain-side bunker, bunker shot to 7, 8 feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Okay. Ten.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Ten, hit a 9-iron to about ten feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: 11.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Hit a 6-iron to about four feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: 15.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Hit a 6-iron to about 15 feet. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: And 18.
 ANGELA STANFORD: 18, hit a lob wedge for my third shot to about three feet.
 MIKE SCANLAN: All right. Angela, great round out there. Bogeyed three today. To start the year off, you have to feel pretty good. If you would, just talk about your round a little bit. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I've always kind of struggled playing this golf course, so I really wanted to be more patient today and be aware of the fact that I could shoot at some flags that I needed to play more conservatively to the middle of the greens. So I feel like just starting out I was in the right frame of mind. 
 And on those holes that I felt like I could go at the flags, I went at them, and just felt really comfortable overall.
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions for Angela? 

 Q. In 2005 you started with a 65 here, but kind of fell off. Would you say that was your best round prior to this? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think so. I think so. I don't know if I'd bank on that. 

 Q. Is there any reason for that? Does this course not suit your eye? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. Not really. There are a couple of tee shots that throw me a little bit, and I feel like I am maturing. 
 And what I was saying about the pins, I think there are pins out here that you should not go for and just take your par and move on. 
 So I'm finally getting to the point where I understand that and I can use that to my advantage a little bit, but I think in the past I haven't been aware of where I need to be on these greens.

 Q. Were you even close to a bogey today? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yes. On number four, that par-three, played really tough, turned back left, and I was pin high, but way on the other side of the green and probably had 8, 9 feet for par. 

 Q. Did the weather change at all for you out there? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: No. It came down really hard when we were warming up, so I didn't hit as many balls as I usually do. 
 It was very odd. Our Back 9, which was the front nine -- we teed off on 10 -- it was very calm. The wind blew 10 and 11, and it seemed to kind of die after that, and when we made the turn to one, it started to blow again. We got pretty fortunate with the tee time this morning.

 Q. What do you attribute last year's success to?
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think just working on my golf swing, working on my putting, but more so mentally, being content with par and knowing -- I used to get upset with par. But I think it's just maturing a little bit and just mentally trying to be better on the golf course, not beat myself up so much.

 Q. Do you still have that this season?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. I wrote it down going home from Singapore from the Lexus Cup. I wrote down all my good thoughts and I reread it again at the beginning of the year. So there are a couple of concepts that I'm trying to latch onto and run with. 

 Q. Were there some pins you didn't go for just today or for the hole tournament?
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think for the tournament, but the one that really sticks out is 17, where they had it today, that front right. 
 I mean if you go dead at it and you hang it out to the right a little bit, you're down the hill, and I think there's a plaque down there -- I've been down that hill quite a bit. That's just off the top of my head, but I think as a rule, there are just -- and with the wind blowing, there are just pins you go to the middle of the green and you move on.

 Q. Yani Tseng said she doesn't mind crazy conditions. Do you prefer fewer variables?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yani, how old is she? 19? 
 MIKE SCANLAN: 20.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. She's young. You know. No, she has a good point. I always liked crazy weather in college, because I knew it eliminated half of the field. 
 I think out here it's not as much because we're playing out here with the greatest players in the world and they don't let things affect them as much. 
 But I think it is a challenge. It doesn't bother me if it blows or not. 

 Q. What's it like to play with a veteran like Juli Inkster who keeps up with you at her age?
 ANGELA STANFORD: You know, she is one of my favorite players. She is by far one of the most competitive players I've ever met. I saw her hit a shot today, and she was so fired up with herself, and she ended up getting up-and-down. That's why Julie is one of my favorite players because she gets fired up and she's competitive, but there's just something that she has that doesn't matter how old you are, if you have that competitiveness, you can always play. And I think she's the most competitive person I've ever met. That's why she's still here. (Laughs).
 MIKE SCANLAN: Anything else? Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT