LORENA OCHOA INVITATIONAL BY BANAMEX AND CORONA LIGHT
November 14, 2008
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: We'll start with your scorecard. You birdied 2?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Hit an 8-iron to about 25, made the putt.   
 3, I hit a sand wedge to about two feet.   
 7, I hit another sand wedge to about six feet.  
 9, my second shot, I hit a 3-wood just short left of the green-side bunker. Chipped up to about two feet.   
 11, I hit a lob-wedge to about 12 feet.   
 12, kind of missed the tee shot. Was in the right rough. Thought I hit a really good second shot but probably needed one more club, and came up short. Chipped it to five feet and missed the putt.   
 13, hit an 8-iron, really solid 8-iron that actually went further than I expected and had about 25 feet coming down that hill. That was scary.   
 14, hit a sand wedge, took a really good bounce at the green to about five feet.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks so much for coming in. 10-under overall and now you're in the lead. 66 today was the new tournament course record. If you would, just talk a little about how you played today.   
 ANGELA STANFORD: I felt really comfortable all day. I feel really good about my swing thoughts and I feel comfortable on the golf course. I feel like I'm rolling my putts really well, so I'm having a lot of fun.   
  
  Q. Yesterday you missed some putts on the greens; what was the difference today you? Were putting very; good, what was the difference today?  
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think sometimes I don't read them correctly. I felt the same about how I was rolling it yesterday and today. But sometimes, I just misread them. I thought we read them much better today.   
  
  Q. What do you think is the key of your success in this kind of course? Why are you hitting the ball so well?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, I think you have to drive the ball well. I think you have to position the golf ball well off the tee. There are some holes out there that you can get blocked outgoing into the green, and I feel like I've been putting myself -- even if I'm not hitting it well, I'm putting myself on the correct side of the fairway.   
  
  Q. How much of a relief was it for you to win in Alabama after being so close for a few years, finally being able to get a win on Tour again?  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, you said it, a relief. I think winning the second one was a little bit harder. I believed I could, but there's just that relief.   
 Now I feel like I can continue to keep winning.   
  
  Q. What kind of changes did you make in your game?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, I re-did some things at the end of 05. That's when it all kind of started. I started changing my golf swing and started getting a little bit stronger.   
 You know, I think I just keep learning more and more about myself, and my golf swing, and I think it's getting better and better.   
 But the whole process started about the end of 05, and I think with every off-season, I'm just continuing to take those steps.   
  
  Q. What is your strategy for tomorrow? Are you going to be more aggressive or what do you think?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, I think I need to stay aggressive. I think that's how I've played the last few days. I think that, you know, you can't just hold on out here. Obviously the best players in the world are here, and they will catch you.   
 So I have to keep doing what I'm doing and stay aggressive.   
  
  Q. Could you talk a little bit about the gallery today, with so many people following Lorena and the players playing along with her; how did you feel today?  
 ANGELA STANFORD: I get the feeling that -- I have to catch myself. Every time we talk to a green, people are clapping, and I realize that they are probably clapping for Annika, and they are probably not clapping for me, and I'm okay with that.   
 I'm okay with everybody being out here for Lorena. She's done wonderful things for our game and our tour. You know, if it gets people out here, that's great.   
  
  Q. You were saying on the GOLF CHANNEL that you feel at home playing here, so maybe that will change tomorrow, the gallery?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: I hope so. You always want people to pull for you. You know, I'm just excited to see this many people out here. I can't imagine -- I know what Lorena has done for our tour, but she's a rock star down here, and it's kind of cool to get a glimpse of it. I'm just excited to be a part of it.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us a little bit about your charity event?  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, it's actually a friend of mine who works for one of the organizations that we donate to, MHMR, Tarrant County Work Fair, and she just said that they needed a fund-raising idea.   
 I told her, well, I kind of have an idea, but I thought it would happen later in my career. I told her it's a glow-ball. It's nine holes at night and they light up the golf course. This is our third year, and half of the funds raised goes to MHMR, Tarrant County; Mental Health Mental Retardation of Tarrant County, and the Lena Pope Home, which is a foster care organization in Fort Worth. We raised $62,000 this year and we had a lot of fun. We added a high school clinic beforehand, and we had a beautiful night. It was awesome.  
  
  Q. What is your opinion about what is happening these two rounds to Lorena; she's not on the top of the leaderboard.   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, I would imagine that it's probably been a very difficult week for her. I think she probably enjoys being at home and playing on her home course.   
 But with that, her name is on the tournament. I'm sure she has many obligations and there's probably a lot going on that we don't know about. I'm sure she's really busy. I always imagined if I could play a tournament on my home course how much different it would be, because I think there's added pressure when you're playing on your home course. Because I thought, you know, if I could play Shady Oaks at home, I know all of the little things about that golf course that make it hard. And in that respect, Lorena has an advantage for playing on her home course.   
 But I just think that there's so much that she's having to do this week that it's very difficult for her.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT