LONGS DRUGS CHALLENGE
October 12, 2008
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ANGELA STANFORD: No. 1 I hit chip shot to like six feet and missed the par putt. 
 3-putted from 35 feet on 4. 
 JASON TAYLOR: No. 9.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Hit a really weird third shot kind of out of the rough and kind of flared off to the right. Hit a pretty decent chip shot and missed like a 12-footer for par. 
 10, chipped in from the left rough. It was pin high and chipped it. Glad to hit the hole. 
 14, that tee shot has given me problems every year, and I hooked it a little too much and caught the tree and decided to layup. Hit it to 20 feet and missed the par putt.
 16, the tee shot I thought kicked into the right bunker, and when I got up there it was just on the edge. Actually hit a pretty decent chip shot to like, God, six feet and just missed the putt.
 JASON TAYLOR: And finally, birdie on 17. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Hit a really good sand wedge to about ten feet. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Finished the week 7-under overall. Just a great week. Just talk about it.
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, it was really hard. You know, after we played Friday I thought, Oh, good, the tough day is over. We showed up Saturday and I was like, Oh, man. Yesterday night I thought, Okay, well maybe it's over now. 
 Showed up this morning and almost fell over on the driving range. It felt like a major just in that you really had to focus on every single shot and really think about, you know, the wind, the elements, everything. 
 Just every day was so much harder because of the weather. It kind of felt like a major. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Questions. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, I did. Yeah, we had a couple gusts up there when we were warming up. A bucket of water flipped over and the cows were running up there, too. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, I think so. And I knew that -- I knew it was either going to be me or her because if -- it was going difficult to make up that much ground. 
 So in that -- well, I always thought I had a chance all day, even coming to 18. I thought, If I make birdie and something happens with her...
 And that's the thing when you have weather and wind like that. You always have a chance. Made me feel better. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, I mean, you know, my dad told you never root against anybody in this game, because it's hard enough as it is. 
 So at that point I wasn't hoping that she missed because I knew I had missed my chances. But, you know, it would have helped if she would have made par. 
 I missed my chances earlier, and I was just trying to get back to even, to tell you the truth. But, you know, she actually putted very well all day. Her first mistake was, I think, 14. 
 So I knew she wasn't going to back up very far just because she's very consistent and a good putter. I missed my chances. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, golly. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, I think -- and I kept telling my caddie, I'm not going to put my pressure on her. It's very different when somebody's putting pressure on you. On No. 9 I'm like, you know, she hit the fairway and had a great layup and there's nobody on the green. So, you know, when you add some pressure then things change a touch. 
 I was frustrated with myself that I didn't do what I needed to do. If I would have applied any pressure at all it might have been different. 
 You could see -- she got a little nervous in the end, but the first shot she hit on 17 was phenomenal. I mean, that -- I mean, she deserved to win after that shot. That was a great shot under pressure, so she played great. She didn't make a whole a lot of mistakes. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. Well, and, you know, even back at the 16 I kept thinking, if I get this up-and-down -- there was no way she was ever going to get that ball up-and-down, and she's got a great short game. 
 But between our misses I felt like I had the better miss and I kept thinking, I need to get up-and-down. And then on 17, I didn't even know where her ball went off the tee until we got up there. 
 So, you know, it could have swung the other way very easily. If I make the putt on 16 and she doesn't hit that amazing bunker shot and doesn't birdie 17, then it might get interesting. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: It hurt really bad when we started. Fortunately I took some Advil on the putting green before we tee'd off. But I don't know. I don't know why I hurt as bad as it did this morning. 
 This has been the worst day since even last week. I don't know why.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: No, no. Not anything out of the ordinary. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: Going to Hawaii. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. Yeah, that's -- you know, and that's what my caddie said going to the green on 18. He's like, You want to be out here to be in contention, to give yourself a chance to win. 
 And again I had a chance to win on Sunday, and as frustrated as I am, once I step back and put this in perspective I'll be very happy with how I've put myself -- I've given myself chances. 
 I've always said, You learn how to win. I had to learn how to win by having a lead, and now I need to learn how to win by being behind one or two. 
 I haven't won on the tour doing that. I've always had a lead going into the last day. I'm learning quite a bit. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yes. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANGELA STANFORD: Um, that's hard to tell just because I haven't played with her that much. But, you know, she seemed very steady. She didn't miss it one way or the other to an extreme. Always kind of in the middle of the fairway and just kind of always had a chance to make birdies. 
 So very consistent. And when you play like that you're always going to have chances. I think she's going to be good. 
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT