LONGS DRUGS CHALLENGE
October 11, 2008
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ANGELA STANFORD: I misjudged the wind and I hit the wrong club. Went over the green and felt like I hit a pretty good chip and just missed like a 6-footer for par.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Birdie on No. 5.  
 ANGELA STANFORD: That hole has been eating my lunch this week, and finally hit a really good drive and good second shot and had about 15 feet actually for eagle, and 2-putted for a birdie.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Another birdie on No. 9.  
 ANGELA STANFORD: 9, hit a really good sand wedge to about two feet.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Birdie on No. 11.   
 ANGELA STANFORD: That time hit a really solid gap wedge to eight feet.   
 JASON TAYLOR: And then three in a row to finish. No. 16.   
 ANGELA STANFORD: 16, chipped in probably 20 feet maybe. Just off -- it was like the second cut with a lob wedge. Happy to hit the flag.   
 JASON TAYLOR: 17.   
 ANGELA STANFORD: 17, hit another good sand wedge in there to like seven feet.  
 JASON TAYLOR: And finally, 18.   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Hit actually a really good second shot out of the rough. There I was just trying to hit the green and get it somewhere on the surface, because it wasn't just a really great lie over there. Had 20 feet for birdie.   
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Thanks for coming in. Great round. You finished the day at 10-under and one back from the lead going into the final. Talk about your day.  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, I was just trying to survive, to be perfectly honest. After yesterday, to be honest, I was very tired when I showed up today and really felt like yesterday was the tough day.   
 When I showed up and the wind was howling again I thought, Oh, boy, here we go again. In that respect it's hard, but the good side of that is it really makes you stay into your one shot at a time and really not worry about what comes next. That's good for me.   
 JASON TAYLOR: Great. Questions.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, it seemed like it in the beginning, and then I thought -- I mean, we get to No. 6, 7, 8 it felt like it was kind of dying down. I thought, Okay, we might play the back without much wind, and then it kicked up again.   
 It was weird all day, kind of gusty. It never seemed like -- at one point, it was on No. 15, I looked at my caddie and said, Okay, it was with us and then it was into us, and now it's with us.   
 And then we hit it and I came up way short and it was into us again. It was weird. You get into those valleys and it's really hard to judge sometimes.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, it wasn't boring, it was hard throughout the day yesterday.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: It makes it harder to get it loose. Usually in warm weather, the looser I can get the more comfortable I'll start to feel through the round. We've had a lot of ice on to this week. I decided this morning I'm going to go home and get an MRI and x-ray after I play Hawaii just so I know -- you know, just for my own piece of mind.  
 Because the pain kind of shifted to a different spot, and the physical therapist in our trailer says that that's fine, it's normal. But I just -- for piece of mind, I think it's time for me to do it again.   
 I did it in 2006, but I just want to know for a fact again that there's no structural damage. If it is truly impingement, which I believe it is, but it's just not going away, and I know it won't go away playing out here every week.   
 I just got to a point this morning where I'm like, Okay, I really need to do it.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: No, there would to be something wrong. And my trainer at home tests the strength in my shoulder and when the physical therapist here in the trailer tests the strength in my shoulder it's always fine.   
 That's what makes me feel better about it, is that I still have quite a bit of strength. So both of those people that continue to test that feel like there's really not a problem with the rotator cuff. So, you know, as long as I feel like I have some strength in and I just have a little bit of pain, I'm okay with that.   
 But I just really started to think about it, and probably need to look at it one more time.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: No, well, impingement. I don't know the definition clearly of that. If you want my personal definition, something is just out of whack. Something is just -- you know, my posture is not very good and my shoulders roll forward.   
 There's something that's just not lined up properly. When you get to the top like that it hurts it, so when I do that I feel that pinch.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, it's worse when I hit it fat and when I try to -- when I try to really good after a driver. I think that's been the frustrating part, is that it makes me think twice when I really want to get after a driver.   
 So that's kind of the frustrating part of all this. I'm not guarding against it, but I just know I'm not going after certain tee shots like I could.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: 2006, yeah.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, like I said, it's just -- the pain has kind of shifted a little bit and it's just an everyday -- and that's the other thing that makes me feel better, is that if there were a scale of one to ten of pain, ten being the highest, when I left Prattville it was like nine, and it's been about a five or six since then.  
 So I'm happy that every day it's been about the same. I can handle that and deal with that.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: You know, sometimes it's really good for me to be preoccupied. I've been so preoccupied with the shoulder and everything that -- and, you know, maybe it's good, because I've really had to rest more than normal.   
 So maybe the blessing to all of this is I haven't been hitting a lot of balls and been able to get some rest. At the end of the season sometimes that's best. Been putting more.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: You know, I actually think last week will help me more than the win. Just being in that final pairing with Paula and watching her do what she did to win, but then also knowing where I didn't take advantage of my opportunities.   
 I really think I'm going to take more out of last week for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, I mean, she never had a bogey, I don't think. I don't think she had a bogey on Sunday, and to not have a bogey on a Sunday with the best players in the world breathing down your throat is pretty impressive. She never lost her cool and she made the putts that she had to make.   
 She made a couple 3-, 4-footers that could have swung her day the other day. Just be very patient and making the putts I need to make tomorrow.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, I have no idea where Paula is. Suzann, I lost her name at some point. But surprised with Lorena. I mean, that's kind of everybody's surprise when she...   
 But it's tough out there. I was surprised when -- because -- you know, not that every other player here, you don't expect them to make a move, but Lorena is kind of that exception. She's known for her late weekend runs.   
 I just kind of kept waiting and waiting and never saw that number go up.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, you know, I mean, you want to beat the best when they're playing their best, so...  
 JASON TAYLOR: Anything else? All right. Thank you.  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Thanks.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT