NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY MAXXFORCE
September 24, 2008
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Angela, thanks for coming in. You've had a week off following your second career victory at Bell Micro. You've got five Top 10s this year and broke into the Top 20 in the Rolex Rankings following your win. If you would, just talk about the last couple weeks and what it's been like for you?
 ANGELA STANFORD: The last couple of weeks have been a bit of a whirlwind. Ever since Sunday, it's just been every day has been full of -- I feel like I've been on the phone more than anything else just trying to reply to family and friends. 
 It really didn't set in until the end of last week when I got to go home. I finally went home on Wednesday, and kind of started to think about it. They say a win cures everything. 
 It helps in the Rolex. It helps with Solheim. It helped to get me in the Samsung, so a lot of good things came out of that week.

 Q. If you would talk about the course here and being in Prattville, and what you've seen so far? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think it's great that we're here right after Mobile. I mean, it's the same feel, same type of golf course. I think it's actually more difficult driving-wise. Off the tee box, I feel like it's tighter than Mobile. 
 The angles are a little different. Bent grass instead of Bermuda. But same feel to the golf course. 

 Q. Does it feel more like -- do you feel more like a Tiger as far as off the tee box? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: No, it's tighter, tighter (laughing).

 Q. Oh, tighter. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yes, sorry.

 Q. What kind of distance did you get on the drive? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think it's 260, 265 maybe. 

 Q. (No microphone)?
 ANGELA STANFORD: I had four, but only one in competition. That was in high school. So I haven't had one in a long time. 

 Q. What do you think of the weather here? It's still feels like summer though autumn began two days ago?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, it was cooler this morning. I walked outside and it was a lot cooler than I expected. But it wouldn't bother me if it was hot. I actually prefer heat. I'm getting older. I'm all of 30, and my body takes a little bit longer to warm up. So the heat is actually good for me (laughing).

 Q. What is the life span of a professional golfer? How long will you stay on tour? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think it's more of a challenge for women just with wanting to have a family and having kids. I think it's easier for the men to travel longer especially with the money that's on the PGA TOUR. They can afford to have their entire family out on the road with them. 
 I think it's more of a challenge for women on the LPGA Tour to do that. I think that shortens the life span of a player out here. 

 Q. With Lorena playing, what impact does that have on you and your game? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: You know, I think it's great to have the number one player in the field. It makes everybody -- I don't know. It makes everybody play harder, maybe. It doesn't really change the way I feel about how I'm playing or how I'm going to play the golf course. But it's that much better when you beat the No. 1 player. 

 Q. In general, how does it feel to have her here? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: To be perfectly honest, I haven't seen who is here. I haven't really had time. I'm not real sure. 

 Q. You're here?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, I'm here. Any time you have a number one player here, I mean that's good for the whole field regardless of who falls behind her. I mean, to have the No. 1 here is a big deal. 

 Q. It's going to be cool here. Will there be any difference in your game? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I don't think so. My caddie is very good about knowing when it's hotter the ball maybe flies a little bit further, when it's cooler maybe not as much. So that's what my caddie's very good at keeping track of. 
 For me, you know, the cool weather -- I prefer hot, but I don't think it's going to get that cool. I think it's going to be perfect. 

 Q. How do you deal with the wind? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, it's good to be downwind. You know, I grew up in Texas. I played in the wind. It was windy in Mobile. That was actually the most windy it's been in Mobile. Even in the years I played in tournament championships, it never seems to be that windy. 
 So the wind doesn't bother me that much. I think for people who don't grow up playing in wind, maybe they get used to it. 

 Q. Have you had a champagne bath before mobile? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: No, I hadn't. That was the best part of the whole thing. It kind of put the cherry on top of the Sundae. To have my friends there and to be able to celebrate like that was a lot of fun. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks for coming in. Good luck this week. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Thank you for having me. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT