BELL MICRO LPGA CLASSIC
September 12, 2008
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ANGELA STANFORD: That was the par three. Hit a really good 9-iron to about two feet.
 JASON TAYLOR: Birdie on 16. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Par 5. Oh, yeah. Hit it one of the best 3-woods in my life to about seven feet and missed the eagle putt, tap-in birdie. 
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. On hole number 2. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Two, par three, again, hit a really solid 6-iron to like seven feet again, six, seven feet.
 JASON TAYLOR: Okay. No. 4, par 5. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Hit kind of a just a great cut 4-iron into the green and had 25 feet for eagle, and a couple feet for birdie. 
 JASON TAYLOR: And birdie on No. 6. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Par 5, a little gap wedge to six feet again. 
 JASON TAYLOR: All right Angela. Thanks for joining us today. Great round, 5-under, 7-under overall. Two shots back from the leader right now. Walk us through your day. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, at first I was a little nervous because we started on No. 10, and the wind was just swirling. It was blowing a lot harder than it did yesterday for us, obviously. We played in the morning yesterday. 
 So I knew that I really had to stay in the moment and play one shot at a time, and just really pay attention to where we hit it into the greens, and even think about, okay, is it better to be a little past this pin. And you know, with the wind swirling and gusting the way it is, you really have to pay attention to, okay, just in case, if I do miss this shot, where is the best place to be.
 JASON TAYLOR: All right. Questions. 

 Q. No bogeys this round. Talk a little bit about your consistency. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: That probably was the best round I've played on this golf course so far. You know, there was really only one time today that I felt like I hit the wrong club and put myself in a bad position, and that was on No. 5. 
 I was able to save the par, but for the most part, I felt like I really used some of the knowledge that I've had in the past playing here, tournament champion, and really just trying to place my ball in position that you didn't have to work any harder than it was going to be today. 
 So I really tried to not put myself into trouble, you know, if I could avoid it. 

 Q. Obviously being two back off the lead, big confidence boost for today, and even more so going into the weekend. Just talk about that. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I'm excited about this weekend. You know, I haven't played this golf course well in the past, and the last two times I've been here I've really started to enjoy the golf course, and now I love it. I love this golf course. 
 It seems like all the Robert Trent Jones Trail golf courses are a lot of fun to play, but you have to hit your ball well and you have to putt well, but they're very fair and they're scorable if you do what you're supposed to do. So I'm excited to get to play this weekend and get to play the golf course two more times.
 JASON TAYLOR: Anything else? All right. Thank you. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT