CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2006
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DANA GROSS RHODE:  Let's go over your scorecard.
ANGELA STANFORD:  1, came up a little short on the second shot into the bunker.  I'm not real sure why that came up short, but got it out.  It was a good out because it plugged.  Missed an 8 footer there for par.

4, driver, 5 iron onto the green and 2 putt.
DANA GROSS RHODE:  How far?
ANGELA STANFORD:  I want to say 35, 40 feet.

No. 7, I went for that green in two.  I was trying to get it up the left side.  Every day I've gone right.  I was in the back bunker, left it in the bunker, then out to eight or nine feet and missed that putt.

Then 9, hit driver, pitching wedge to like 10 feet maybe, made that.

Bogey on 17.  You know, I probably rushed there and I probably didn't hit the club I wanted to, and then I put a bad swing on to top of that, right into the bunker.  Hit a good bunker shot to six or seven feet.  I don't know why that putt didn't break into the hole.

18, got a great break out of the fairway bunker.  And I just really thought that that green was going to, it was going to be faster.  The last thing you can do is hit that putt that far and blow it past the hole.  I really thought it was going to pick up more speed and it did not.
DANA GROSS RHODE:  How far was that putt?
ANGELA STANFORD:  It had to be about 8 feet.
DANA GROSS RHODE:  We'll take questions.
Q.  Have you ever been in a more disappointing situation than this one?
ANGELA STANFORD:  Right now I would have to say no, because I can't really remember one at this point.  I think just to bogey the last two holes when I hadn't done that all week.  I would say right now, yes.
Q.  You had a great week.  Did you feel like you were a little bit different person today?  You seemed to be fighting really hard.  I thought that birdie you made at 4 was really big when Meena made hers.  Were you just keeping it together or what?
ANGELA STANFORD:  You know, I didn't feel like    it wasn't one of my better ball striking rounds, but I didn't really make any big mistakes again.  Really, if anything, I probably could have played the par 5s better.  It's just so hard.

But I'm proud of the fact that I didn't lay up because all week I've gone for those par 5s.  And like I said yesterday, I was going to go down swinging.  And unfortunately, the one on 7, if it just would have gone up the left side instead of continuing to cut, it probably could have gotten on the green.  I told my caddie, I just don't think that's a bad decision, that's a bad swing.  I felt really good about my decision making this week up until 17.  I think I probably could have hit a different club.  I feel like I didn't make any mental errors.
Q.  What are you like when something like this happens.
ANGELA STANFORD:  You know, I don't know yet.  I'm not sure how I'm going to react to this one.  It's probably a good thing I'm playing next week.  It's probably good to keep going.  I don't know how I'm going to react yet.
Q.  The way Cristie played today, did you find yourself looking at the leaderboard and seeing her creep ever so much closer to you with everyone hole?
ANGELA STANFORD: Yes, I think so.  I was looking at it.  You know, to shoot 7 under, it's a great round.  We did it the first day.  Again, I don't think I played terrible.  If I par 18, I'm shoot 1 over again and it's the whole Nashville thing all over again.  But 7 under with those pins today is a great round.
Q.  Was there any point today where you were thinking here we go again, even on the first hole when your par putt lips out and Meena makes birdie and your lead is down to 2.  Did you have a sense today at all?
ANGELA STANFORD:  I had it a little bit there.  And I just told myself, you know, there's 17 more holes and it's a long day.  It's going to be a long round of golf.  I plan on making birdies today.  So I really feel like I got over that pretty quickly.  I never really thought it again until 17.  Really all day long I felt I had control.  I felt like I was in a good spot all day long.
Q.  Do you find in this type of situation on the final day and you've got the lead, does your body react a little differently?  Are you a bit tighter?  All week you were obviously doing so well.  You didn't seem like the same player.
ANGELA STANFORD:  I don't know the answer yet.  I don't know what's going on.  I felt like I did better today than I did with the lead in Nashville.  I feel I handled things much better.  I don't know.  I don't have a clue as to what's going on.  I think a lot of that comes from, you know, knowing my game a little bit better.

You know, with some of the swing changes I've made in the off season, you know, to be where I'm sitting right now, I'm still feeling pretty good about this year.  But I think just knowing    like the shot on 17, knowing the exact shot I want to hit at that moment.  I think that comes with maturity.  You talk to Tiger, Annika Sorenstam, the greats, they know at that moment what shot they're going to hit and I have to learn that.  I'm still learning.  I hate to be 28 and still learning.
Q.  You put yourself in a great spot.  16 was a hole it looked like you should have been three or four strokes lower than you were for the week.  It looked like you made an aggressive play or aggressive off the tee.
ANGELA STANFORD:  I started thinking the way the 3 wood reacted, we should have hit 5 wood on the second shot.  The only thing I kept thinking was, I need to get it past the pin so we're chipping back at it.  A 5 wood, I kind of had kind of that lob    well, I hit it pretty hard, I just didn't get it high enough and it ran all the way up the bunker.  And there again, I just didn't hit a good bunker shot.  I again felt really good about that decision and I did exactly what I wanted to do, I just didn't execute the birdie.
Q.  Were you surprised that there was a 7 under out there today?
ANGELA STANFORD: Yes, I'm surprised.
Q.  You've been around enough majors to know what they feel like and what the atmosphere is like.  Did you get that sense today from the kind of crowds that were here, from the field of the golf course, from all your surroundings?
ANGELA STANFORD: Yes.  Talking to people all week, the comment everybody kept making to me was, what's up with    I'm like, I don't know.  So it kind of has that feel, because there weren't that many people under par throughout the week, and then there weren't that many people in double digits under par, so it did have that feel.  And then the crowds were absolutely phenomenal.  They were awesome.  So it did have that feel.
Q.  17, you went right and then you hit a club you didn't want to.  Why were you right and how did you pick the wrong club?
ANGELA STANFORD:  I don't know.  For some reason I just kind of got up there and got going.  We were right in between.  I could have hit a hold 6 instead of taking a full 5 iron, which I did yesterday.  And I felt like I actually went and hit the hold 6 iron because I thought the green has got to be releasing, I just need to get it in the middle section of the green.  And I thought that 5 iron, even if I held it, it might have a chance.  I thought, a solid swing, middle of the green, but I don't think I ever convinced myself of that.  I'm convincing myself right now.
Q.  Which of the three will stay with you more?
ANGELA STANFORD:  The bad swing, definitely.  Definitely the bad swing, because, you know, I hate mental mistakes the most, but at that moment, I'm better than that and I could have made a better swing.
Q.  Somebody was saying that Cristie Kerr has kind of a killer instinct.  Is that something that maybe you're lacking as a golfer or as a competitor?
ANGELA STANFORD:  I'm going to say no, I'm not, but it appears that way right now.  That's just something that I need to work on, closing the door.
DANA GROSS RHODE: Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT