CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2006
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DANA GROSS RHODE: Let's go over your scorecard real quick.
ANGELA STANFORD:  No. 4, par 5, we hit a 56 degree to about 8 feet.

No. 10, I hit 7 wood on our second shot to the front of that green.  That was probably at least a 40 footer.  Yes, at least 40 feet, two putts, birdie.

11, I was in the left bunker off the tee and just hit a pitching wedge to like three feet.

A bogey on 13, just hit a 6 iron through the green, but that rough you can get any kind of lie and it just looked like it was sitting down.  It just came out really hot and I just barely missed the putt coming back.
DANA GROSS RHODE: How far was that putt?
ANGELA STANFORD:  Probably 7 or 8 feet.
DANA GROSS RHODE:   Angela, you still had a 70, one of the lower scores in the round.  Talk about the difference between yesterday and today and then going into the weekend.
ANGELA STANFORD:  I think a lot of it has to do with playing in the morning and in the afternoon.  The greens felt they were getting firmer and firmer.  Like I said yesterday, they can put these pins in certain spots where you just can't get to them.  I think that was the big difference today, just playing in the afternoon and being more conservative with our target, because some of the greens, if they're not holding and the pin is tucked, you only have like 20 yards of green to work with.  So you're left with a 20 or 30 footer.
Q.  It seems like everybody at this tournament was lured here by Lorie Kane.  Did she have anything to do with you coming here?
ANGELA STANFORD:  No, if she did, I would have.  I like Lorie.  I think she's great for our tour.  If she would have asked me, I would have said yes, but I was coming anyways.  I've enjoyed    I think there have been two years where I haven't played in Canada, but the times I've been here I've enjoyed it.
Q.  Growing up in Texas, you seem to have a game built for sort of fast, windy conditions.  I watched you play I think nine or ten holes.  Is this kind of course and this kind of conditions, you look very comfortable with it.
ANGELA STANFORD:  Yes, I like the course.  I have no problems bouncing it up to a green.  I have no problems landing it five on and let it roll out 30 yards.  I have no shame.  I'll hit it to three feet any way I can.  I know that my ball is going to roll out more than most.  I'm okay with that.
Q.  Talk about the par putt on 18 out here.  That seemed like a real, real key putt at that time in the round.
ANGELA STANFORD:  You know, it was.  I had heard the crowd get real loud on the side of the golf course that Lorie was on.  And you can tell which are Lorie cheers and what aren't.  I knew she was doing something over there.  I did not realize she had gotten to 8, but I just knew at that time that putt was a big putt.  That was probably the biggest putt of the day.  Because I think if I would have gone to 8, I don't want to say it would have changed my mindset but I think it probably would have.  That green is such a firm green.  I hit pitching wedge in there and I don't think it hit more than 6, 7, 8 paces on the green and it's all the way on the back.  That's just a tough green.  If you can make par there you're usually picking one up.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANGELA STANFORD:  Probably like 15 or 16.
Q.  You mentioned you can hear the crowd cheering for Lorie.  Do you get a sense how much they are pulling for her and if it comes down to the two of you on Sunday, you'll be the villain?
ANGELA STANFORD:  You know, I don't blame them.  I don't blame them at all.  We're in Canada and Lorie has been great for Canadian golf, I'm sure.  I just don't blame them at all.  I love the fact that they're out here.  I love the fact that they are supporting women's golf.  When we're in the States or if we were in Texas they would be cheering just as loud for me, so I don't have any problems with that at all.
Q.  You mentioned looking at the scoreboard and not knowing that Lorie had gone to 8.  But was it something that you were conscious of, the score, where Lorie was, where you were standing on the scoreboard being it's a Friday?
ANGELA STANFORD:  Really I didn't look at the scoreboard much today, it was just that time of the day where it just kept getting louder and louder on that side of the golf course.  I knew something was going on.  I figured it was Lorie from the yells.  But to tell you the truth, I didn't really look that hard at the scoreboard until No. 18.  And then on the back side    and I don't know if it's because of where they are positioned.  I didn't really get a good glimpse until 18.  But you could tell with how loud they were getting on that side of the golf course.
Q.  You talked about the putt on 18.  You had a number of holes leading into that, where you either had    the par 5, you left the chip a little short, and the par 4 before you had what looked like three or four feet for birdie.  Was it sort of discouraging to know you seemed to be putting it in the right places and you couldn't put the ball in the hole today?
ANGELA STANFORD:  I was more frustrated today than I was yesterday obviously.  The one on 15 stung a little bit because I felt like I put myself in a great spot off the tee and a great shot in there, and to walk away with par, that hurt.

And like you said, on 17, I just didn't hit that chip hard enough.  It felt like the wheels were kind of coming off.

When that putt on 18 went in, that was just huge, not only to save par, but for that reason, that I felt like I left a few on that side anyways.
Q.  What were you thinking when you birdied the first two to get to 10, like here we go again?
ANGELA STANFORD:  That was a lot of fun.  I don't know how it happened.  I thought, wow.  I felt like I was still asleep.  I felt I was still dreaming, and in the fashion they happened.  Hitting 10 in two.  Even my caddie was like, I never thought we were going to hit this green in two this week, no way.  And then out of the bunker on 11.  It was just kind of happening.  I wasn't thinking about it.  And then I think I started thinking.
Q.  You talked about the support of Lorie Kane today in particular, but you were the leader going into today's round so a lot of people knew who you were.  Did you have good galleries following you?  And were they not necessarily pulling for you, but cheering for you?
ANGELA STANFORD:  I think there were quite a few, and they're very nice.  They clap when you hit a good shot.  They've been very nice.  Like I said, I think they know good golf.  They're very smart spectators.  Like I said, I wouldn't blame them.  If my favorite golfer were out there, I would be cheering louder.
Q.  (No microphone.)
ANGELA STANFORD:  I have a good friend in town up from Texas.  And starting tomorrow, I will have three others that    I call them a host family.  They are the family I stay with for the tournament in Toledo.  They live just west of Detroit.  But the son, he caddied for me in the '98 Amateur when he was 13.  So I've known them ever since '98.  And they just happened to be close enough where they're going to drive over for the weekend.
Q.  Do you look at three shots, given who is behind you, as enough, a lot, or do you even think about that?
ANGELA STANFORD:  It's never enough, never enough.  You can give me 10 shots right now and it wouldn't be enough.  These ladies are just, they're so good, and on any given day they can do what I did yesterday.  I think I just really have to play my own game and really just try to keep making birdies.  It's never enough out here.
Q.  You were talking about not blaming the crowd.  Do you get a sense from your peers at all that they're pulling for Lorie?  Obviously they're pulling for themselves first, but is she a sentimental favorite among the other golfers in that way?
ANGELA STANFORD:  I don't get that feeling.  I think everybody is just kind of doing their own deal.  I would say mostly from the fans.
DANA GROSS RHODE:  Thanks, Angela.  Great round.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT