U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2005
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you are disappointed with your finish last two holes. Tell me about your round today.
 ANGELA STANFORD:  Actually felt pretty good midway through.  Got off to a shaky start and then just kind of kept thinking, you know, I just need to hang in, hang around and my swing started settling into the round, swing started to feel better, just down the stretch I just kind of lost it coming down the stretch.
Q.  Why do you think that is?  What happened?
 ANGELA STANFORD:  That third shot on 17, I still don't feel like I am hitting it that hard and it's just -- it's going so much farther than I thought, than I think it should be going.  I just haven't figured that shot out yet.
Q.  What was your club and yardage on 18?  You came up pretty short.
 ANGELA STANFORD:  We had 147 to the front, so like 159 to the flag and our thought was short is better than long and actually if that ball jumps another foot, I am in the short stuff chipping, you know, what kind of lie you are going to get in the rough.  So I think strategically it was the right club, but just bad bounce.
Q.  What was the club?
ANGELA STANFORD:  8-iron.
Q.  Unless Michelle birdies the last hole you are just two strokes off the pace.  What will you be thinking about tomorrow?
 ANGELA STANFORD:  One shot at a time.

I think if I got it back to even I think I'd have a pretty good shot.  I think tomorrow we're just going to come out and try to get it back to even.
Q.  With three teenagers right in there with you, you think you have got any advantage with your experience and age?
 ANGELA STANFORD:  Yes and no.  I think sometimes teenagers don't have a clue as to where they are or what they are doing.  I think these three, I think these three do.  They just have -- experience can be good and bad.  I don't think that they have the negative, you know, that some people might have.  They don't know any different so they are just going to play.

But at the same time, you know, they may be a little more nervous than most.
Q.  Are you surprised that there are three teenagers among the top 4, 15, 17 and 18?
 ANGELA STANFORD:  Yes and no again.  They are three very good players.  Paula has proven herself on Tour this year.  I think when you play as an amateur I think sometimes you just don't have anything to lose, you know, so you just shoot at everything because, what have you got lose?  I think when you have teenagers that have that much talent and that attitude that, you know, what do I have to lose?  So I think you put that combination together, that makes them pretty good.
Q.  Advantage to having something to gain?
 ANGELA STANFORD:  Oh, you always want to be the leader, but you know, I also feel like I don't have anything to lose tomorrow.  I have never won a major.  So what do I have to lose?  I am kind of right there with them.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT