THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2018
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice round today.  
ANGELA STANFORD: Thanks.   
 Q.  Were you just feeling like you could almost birdie every single hole?  
ANGELA STANFORD: You know, I didn't have that feeling.  I think we had some really good numbers into these flags today.  Then, you know, some days you can really see the line when you're putting and some days I have no idea where it's going.   
Today was one of those days.  Seems like we had great numbers into the flags and I could really see the line today, so just one of those days.   
 Q.  Yeah.  You've had some good results here in the past playing when it was the Evian Masters; past two years really good as well.  What do you like about being here?  
ANGELA STANFORD: I don't know.  I think it really makes me play one shot at a time.  I think this is a golf course that big numbers can happen fast, so you have to really kind of pay attention on every single shot.  Probably should be doing that anyway, but here even more so.   
But I think it's going to play a little bit different this weekend.  It played a little different for us yesterday morning because it was so dry.  If we don't get anymore rain, I think the way you approach these greens is going to be different.  They get firm.   
So I think it's going to be a little different this weekend.   
 Q.  What do you take from the past here just knowing this course?  
ANGELA STANFORD: I don't know.  I know I have to be patient, but I've never finished it off here.  There is obviously something going on down the stretch that I'm not doing correctly.   
I'm going to try to slow it down and really just one shot at a time and just try to really keep doing what I'm doing.   
Again today, just seemed like everything just kind of (vehicle interference).  Because you know, when you're in between clubs all day it really makes it harder.  We weren't today, so we just had great clubs and great lines on putts.   
I know it's going to get different this weekend.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT