KINGSMILL CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 21, 2017
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  11-under par.  How was your day?  
ANGELA STANFORD: It was good.  I kind of got on a roll early.  I knew it was going to a tough day.  Sounded like the pin placements were tough.   
So just tried to be patient early, and then I made some.  Then I got a little impatient, and really just after that just tried to finish.  I got an extremely lucky break on 15.   
Good way to finish.   
 Q.  Eagle on 15?  
ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah.   
 Q.  What happened there?  Walk me through that.  
ANGELA STANFORD: Well, we stood back in the fairway forever.  I had two rulings in the group in front of us, and I we stood there for over ten minutes.   
Then I just hit a bad shot and hung it out to the right.  Actually had a decent lie.  I mean, it wasn't great.  I just told myself if I could pop it up and get it somewhere on the green maybe have a birdie chance, and it went in.   
I knew when I hit it it was online, but that was luck.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  Do you know how many consecutive Kingsmill tourneys this has been for you?  
ANGELA STANFORD: All of them.   
 Q.  All of them?  
ANGELA STANFORD: I missed last year's cut, but other than that I've made the cut every single time I've been here.   
 Q.  And this is about the best you've played?  
ANGELA STANFORD: I think.  I think I've had a number of Top 10s here.  This is probably the best finish maybe.   
 Q.  Why have you never missed it?  
ANGELA STANFORD: I just love it here.  It looks good to me.  Always in great shape.  The volunteers and the fans, the tournament staff, they treat us like -- they just treat us like royalty around here.  They love us.  They treat us like professional.  Just makes you feel good.   
They do an amazing job here.  It feels like a step above everything else that we play.  It's about as close to a major as we're going to get that's not a major.   
 Q.  I know you're a Solheim veteran.  What are your thoughts on the next generation of American players, especially Lexi?  
ANGELA STANFORD: Looks good apparently.  No, you know, these kids, they're so much better than when I came out here.  Americans are getting better and better, regardless of what people thing.   
College golf, even if you watch NCAA tournament, those girls are so good.  I think we're in good shape.   
 Q.  When you see the star power that Lexi is attracting, what do you think about that as a veteran?  Can you compare that to anything else?  
ANGELA STANFORD: I think it's great.  I think it's different.  I think we're in a different era.  Back when I first started in the early 2000s you didn't have Twitter and Instagram.  I think there are some things that allow her to have that kind of status that Annika didn't have or even Webby or Beth Ann or Meg Mallon.  Even Juli.   
So I think it's just this whole younger generation and I guess all the social media.   
 Q.  Last question from me.  I was covering a youth tournament yesterday I think.  It was First Tee affiliated.  Someone told me they were very involved with the First Tee.  
ANGELA STANFORD: Fort Worth, uh-huh.   
 Q.  Tell me about that a little bit, just your involvement and what you see as the importance of First Tee.  
ANGELA STANFORD: Well, I think just to be able to learn the game of golf I think is extremely important for kids.  I think it will be a game they can play forever.  It'll help them when I they enter the workforce.  It'll help them just with their character.  You can learn a lot about somebody on a golf course.   
I think it's just really important the values they teach, and it just gives the kids something to do.  Growing up, I always wanted to play something.  That's how I stayed out of trouble.   
So I think it just helps those kids find an outlet that's positive.   
 Q.  Are you from that area, Fort Worth?  That's where you grew up?  
ANGELA STANFORD: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Just one more.  You're in a great spot to make your seventh Solheim Cup team.  How much is that on your mind with this finish?  
ANGELA STANFORD: It's always on my mind Solheim Cup years.  This felt good.  This week, again, means a lot to me.  I love being here.  It was kind of my chance to make a move.  Just I want to make that team.  I don't want Juli to have to think about picking me.   
I am just going to try to get the job done that way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT