HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 5, 2015
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was really good stuff out there.   
ANGELA STANFORD:   Thank you.   It was a fun day.   It was a fun group, playing with Webby and Stacy, it was a good group.   
   
 Q.   You're a former champion here, so you do know what it takes to get around this event more than anything.   I know we're playing a different course this time but it's a big occasion, this tournament.   
ANGELA STANFORD:   Yeah, it's one of my favourites.   I love coming to Singapore.   I've always said that.   HSBC has been very good to us, and it's just a great week.   They take good care of us, and it's just a great event on our schedule.   
   
 Q.   Now last year, you were going to tone down your playing schedule just a little bit.   That sort of semi‑retirement didn't seem to last too long, and why would it.   
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, I'm being more careful about how many times I go overseas.   I think just traveling across big bodies of water starts to wear on your body a little bit.   I've cut back in that respect, and it's helped a little about it, so I feel more refreshed.   
I didn't play Australia.   Just keeping it to two this time instead of three.   So I feel a lot more refreshed this week than I have in the past.   
   
 Q.   The heat can be pretty oppressive and it's very humid out there.   How do you find playing in these conditions?   
ANGELA STANFORD:   Finding the older I get, the more I like it.   The body doesn't tighten up.   Our first event it was cold in Florida, so I'm finding, especially being from Texas, I'm okay with the heat.   
   
 Q.   Bogey‑free today.   That must really thrill you.   
ANGELA STANFORD:   I struggled last week, just trying to putt some things together and had a good last day, and it was nice to see some of the results this week or this first day.   So it was fun.   But I know we have three more days.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT