LPGA LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY J GOLF
April 18, 2014
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   It is my pleasure to welcome in our third round leader Angela Stanford into the interview room.   5‑under, 67 today, had the lead going into the final round at 13‑under.   Talk about the round today, how you felt, just another solid round out of you.  
ANGELA STANFORD:   I didn't think the wind was blowing as hard when we started, so it was kind of nice to get out there and get a little bit of a rhythm.   
It really picked up on the back.   So it got tough towards the end just because it was windy and it started to become a really long round.   But for the most part, my putter‑‑ my putter was great again, so that was a lot of it.  
   
 Q.   Bogey on 10.   What happened there?   
ANGELA STANFORD:   You know, I misjudged the wind there.   The hard part about‑‑ and I did it a couple of times.   The hard part is you're going into these crosswinds, if you decide to hit a shot that you are trying to hold into the wind, it's not going to go as far.   I didn't hit the shot that I wanted to.   Probably should have hit a different club, but it's okay.  
   
 Q.   Another streak on the back nine of birdies.   What is it this week about catching fire, catching that momentum?   Five in a row yesterday, three in a row yesterday on the back nine.   Three in a row again on the back nine today.   What has been the key to keeping the momentum, getting a birdie and staying in the groove of that?   
ANGELA STANFORD:   I just like some of these holes and I think every golfer will tell you, when you play different golf courses, there are some holes you like and some you don't.   I'm fortunate that the ones I like are grouped together, so that's fine nice.   The ones I don't like are kind of bookends.  
   
 Q.   Parents are here this weekend.   Talk about having them here with you.   When was the last time they were able to come out and visit?   It's your dad's first time in Hawaii.   
ANGELA STANFORD:   My dad's first time in Hawaii.   So my mom has her hands full because he's not for much for vacation.   He's having a good time.   They are enjoying watching golf.   But my aunt and my uncle are here also.   
It's kind of my parents' 40th wedding anniversary gift to themselves.   They planned it around the golf tournament since they were coming.   It's nice to have them here.   I think they are just‑‑ I mean, it just never gets old, I guess.   You love having your parents around because there's that comfort.   And I know all of Hawaii is routing for Michelle tomorrow, so I know I got a few hometown in the crowd tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   I'm going to assume patience is important for conditions like this.   Growing up in Texas, I'm going to assume you know how to slice the ballin these kind of conditions and keeping it lower or whatever.   Is that something that you are aware of out there?  
ANGELA STANFORD:   Yeah, I think sometimes it's just about taking one more club and being okay with the ball getting up in the air.   
So I think growing up in Texas, I hit it low anyway and it's a disadvantage at some golf courses, but here in Hawaii it helps.   So sometimes I let it get up in the air and I let the wind help me.   I think that's been the fun part this week is I've gotten to hit so many different shots.   
I kind of get lost in the round because there's not a single shot that's the same.   
   
 Q.   What would be your mindset sitting on a 4‑shot lead going into tomorrow?   How will you approach the final?   Will you do the same thing you have been doing?   
ANGELA STANFORD:   Honestly, I didn't realize it was a 4‑shot lead.   Again, I just think it's so‑‑ it got hard there in the end.   Sometimes you are just trying to hang on.   I think it's just going to be hard enough as it is to play.   So hopefully that's going to work to my advantage because I'm going to be so wrapped in just trying to hit golf shots.   
   
 Q.   How is the elbow or the forearm?   
ANGELA STANFORD:   It's getting better.   The physio guys are awesome.   I felt better tomorrow.   I told them when I came in yesterday that I was pushing nine or ten pain‑wise.   Today when I walked in it was about seven.   They are doing a great job and it's nice to have them here.  
   
 Q.   What about the difficulty of following up a really good round like you did yesterday.   A lot of times you see people and they go right back up to a 77 or whatever?   How difficult is that?   
ANGELA STANFORD:   I guess I didn't think about it.   I hate to sound like a broken record, but it's so different every day.   
Even though the wind seems to be blowing from the same direction, I caught myself telling my caddie a few timesit's not the same wind.   I thought it was, but it's not.   
I think just because each day is so different that anything can happen any day, and I‑‑ you know, it helps me because I need to play one shot at a time.   
   
 Q.   You and Michelle were neck and neck for a while there and you separated a little bit on the back nine.   What did you observe from Michelle's game today?   
ANGELA STANFORD:   That there's not enough space.   I can't create enough space between her right now.   
I tell you, the shot she hit on 12 was cool.   I told my caddie that.   I'm like, "That was cool."   Not many people can do that.   
I played with Michelle at Kraft this year the first two days, and I told her, as we finished on Friday, that I need a good pairing.   I enjoy playing with Michelle.   She's fun to watch.   So not that I'm watching her, but it's‑‑ she hits it different, and she hits some creative shots out there.   For me, it's fun because I like watching that and I like do doing that too.   
   
 Q.   Keys for tomorrow?   18 holes left.   
ANGELA STANFORD:   You know, I really just need my putter to stay hot.   I don't know the weather.   I don't know what the wind is supposed to do.   I think I need to keep hitting good putts.   That's been the story the last two days.   For me, I feel like it's about my ball striking.   If I could hit it good then I would play good.   For the first time, it's been my putting and it's kind of fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT