HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 1, 2014
Angela Stanford
Karrie Webb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   Like to welcome Karrie Webb and Angela Stanford.   Karrie, 70 today,11‑under, leading Angela by one.   Talk your round, I know a little bit of a slow start, I think not too many smiles on the front line but looked to pick it up on the last final five holes.
KARRIE WEBB:   Yeah, it was a pretty solid round really.   I didn't probably hit it as good as I would have liked but I felt like I had a lot of in between numbers today and I really had trouble a few times picking the right club. 
So probably more poor decision making rather than bad swing.   But I managed to, I only made one bogey out of all of that, and yeah, the front nine had played a little bit easier for me this week and it didn't play as easy today, but I got through it at even par and you know, I finished off strong the last five holes, which you know, really makes the round look really good. 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   Same for you, front nine was a little off as well, strong finish, were you looking at the leaderboards at all thinking, I need to finish out on a strong note? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   I think you want to finish strong either way.   And you know, I think you can look at a leaderboard at this tournament, but it's just a bunch of people.   I mean, so it's really not worth looking at it.   You just know a lot of people are going to be at the top.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     Karrie said yesterday these tournaments after re‑pairing have a weekend feel on a Thursday and Friday, and Saturday almost felt like a Sunday with everybody charging.   Did you feel like it was almost like a Sunday‑type atmosphere? 
KARRIE WEBB: Yeah, I think similar to yesterday, just with the re‑pairs. 
Just even when I was not giving myself a lot of good birdie opportunities early on, I had to tell myself, it's Saturday and there's plenty of golf left to be played and just be patient and fortunately I listened to myself for a change. 

Q.   Can you tell us about the conversation on the 14th tee after you hit that trio of shots around the flag? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   I don't know if we talked.   Everybody just kind of walked to the green.   And I was doing something so I didn't even realize‑‑
             KARRIE WEBB: I don't think we realized we were that close.   I didn't realize that it happened‑‑
ANGELA STANFORD:   I didn't realize we were that close. 

Q.   Yours was 18 inches?
KARRIE WEBB: No, it was about three feet probably. 

Q.   Did you feel a long way away compared to her? 
KARRIE WEBB: I did.   I had to work on my putt.   They didn't have to.   And that was my first birdie of the day, so I was making sure it went in. 

Q.   Can you maybe tell us a little bit about your recollections of the playoff a couple of years ago at Tanah Merah, why it is Singapore seems to bring out the best in you? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, first, I enjoy being here.   I've said over and over, it's one of my favorite places outside of the states to play at; the sponsor treats us awesome, we stay at a great place, just has a home‑like feel.   It's pretty laid back and it's just a fun city to be in. 
The playoff, you know, I think my mind‑set, the whole time was I just want to be the last one standing.   So I just kept getting the same tee shot, and that's a hard hole that 18th over there, so I just kept‑‑ I just said, I'm going to be the last one standing.   I'm not going to make the mistake.   So I just kept hitting the same shots over and over and over. 

Q.   Have you had a similar feeling this week about being the last one standing?
ANGELA STANFORD:   You know, this course is very different.   And yeah, you want to be the last one standing.   But this course is different for me.   I have some challenges on this golf course that I didn't over there.   So I have to say in the present and I have to hit one shot at a time. 

Q.   You said you made some poor decision‑making today, but at the same time you were potentially looking at a wire‑to‑wire victory, so do you feel dominant or just a case of making less mistakes than the rest? 
KARRIE WEBB: I don't think I feel dominant.   I don't think this course of makes you feel comfortable enough to say that.   I think, you know, I've just‑‑ when I say poor decision making, you know, when I'm in‑between clubs, I've picked the wrong club and didn't trust that maybe the shorter club was the right club, and probably playing a bit too safe at times.   But in saying that, I managed to hit some really nice chip shots today and get myself out of trouble.   And you know, it's a comfortable feeling to know that if you do miss a green that things have been going all right in your up‑and‑down stats that you can get the ball up‑and‑down and it's not too much damage. 

Q.   How important do you think the birdie on the final hole was in the context of today and the tournament?   And also can you talk about your hat. 
KARRIE WEBB: Well, the birdie on the last, it was important just for me for momentum.   Whether I had made my putt or not, I would have still been tied for the lead.   But just for momentum‑wise, I hit a really good tee shot off the tee there and my bunker shot wasn't as great as I would have liked, but a very confident putt which gives me good feels going into tomorrow.
The boxing kangaroo, I don't have a hat sponsor, and I'm a pretty proud Aussie, so a few years ago decided to put that on my hat until someone gave me some money to put something up there.   

Q.   You've had many years of Asian players dominating; do you feel with the start of this season, is there a sense that maybe the Asian domination is over and there is a new cycle coming up, particularly with some of the more senior players?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Who was that to?   (Laughter).

Q.   Both of you. 
KARRIE WEBB: Well, you were looking at Angela.
ANGELA STANFORD:   I struggle with this question, because I think as a player, I don't see other players as where they are from I guess until we get to the week of Solheim Cup.   But I think, you know, I think the Solheim Cup, because it's been better and the competition has been better the last couple years, that has something to do with‑‑ the Europeans are playing better and it's forcing the Americans to play better.   I think just everybody helps everybody.   Karrie has been around so long, she is the bar. 
KARRIE WEBB: I'll remember that.
ANGELA STANFORD:   I think everybody pushes everybody and I don't think players see it as, Asians or dominating or Europeans or the Americans.   That's the good thing about our tour is we have celebrities from all over the planet it seems like on this tour and I think everybody pushes everybody.   I don't think players see it as they are from so‑and‑so.   It's just another player and everybody is trying to beat everybody. 
KARRIE WEBB: I agree.   (Laughter) he r.
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   From the past list of champions, very, very impressive list of players who have won here, obviously you two have won here.   Angela, your last win was at Singapore at a different course.   What do you think the testament is of this tournament producing such acclaimed players‑‑ winners.
ANGELA STANFORD:   You just have to be on your game, because I mean it's a limited field but anybody can win.   I'd like to think anybody can win any week on our tour but when you only have 60 players, anybody can win.   So you just have to bring your A Game every day. 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:   Keys for tomorrow?   I know you didn't want to reveal any secrets but‑‑ I guess I'll try. 
KARRIE WEBB: I think I'll stick to the game plan I've had the last couple of days and trust that I can hit the shots and give myself plenty of opportunities and try and make a few.
ANGELA STANFORD:   I'm going to send Webbie a six‑pack tonight.   (Laughter).
KARRIE WEBB: I'll probably drink wine coolers. 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN:     Thank you both for coming in very much.   Good luck tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT