HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 28, 2014
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Another good round for you today?  
ANGELA STANFORD: I think my putter has really been working this week. Rolling it really good. Seeing the lines really good. I ’m putting myself in good spots and making putts.  
   
 Q. A couple weird lies on the back nine. Are those shots you walk up to and think these are ones I ’ve practiced or what am I going to do?  
ANGELA STANFORD: I don ’t know what it is about that 13th holes but it is out to get me. It was weird. To have two on the same hole and walk up in the middle of the fairway and it ’s sitting down in the hole. To be in the bunker is fine but the rake had stopped it so it was sort of weird. But it makes you feel better when you getting it up and down and make par.   
Our history starts last year. We have a long history together.   
   
 Q. Any similarities you ’re playing off of the course you won on?  
ANGELA STANFORD: They ’re very different. I think just when you leave here  – I ’ve always loved coming to Singapore. The Fairmont is one of the nicest I ’ve every stayed at. The people are so friendly and it ’s just a great place to be for the week. And HSBC is obviously an amazing host. It ’s just a nice place to be, it ’s a great week.  
   
 Q. What happened on 12?  
ANGELA STANFORD: Just a bad tee shot got me going. And had a funny lie in the rough and we were kind of in between on what we thought the ball would do on the third shot on that lie. It just jumped and took off. I must have gone down the cart path. I thought it was going to be right behind the green and I get up there and it ’s down the cart path. I just kept thinking just keep it to a bogey and try to get out of this jam and keep going.  
   
 Q. Too early for you to be looking at the leaderboard during today ’s round?  
ANGELA STANFORD: You know, last year is still fresh in my mind and I struggled on this golf course. I ’m not getting ahead of myself. I know what ’s still out there.  
   
 Q. How much of a factor are accommodations for you?  
ANGELA STANFORD: I just think it ’s whether you ’re comfortable. Good meals at night. When I ’m in the States I control my environment a little more than when we ’re here. But they ’ve done a great job for us. I guess I can throw in the Air Weave thing. The beds have been great. I didn ’t know what to expect but that ’s been a lot of fun to get to sleep on that every night.  
People always said I can feel the bed week to week which I thought was crazy but the older you get, your body takes it.   
   
 Q. New sponsor this year?  
ANGELA STANFORD: I ’ve worn Polo my whole life. For as long as I can remember. Back into junior golf and I love the brand. It ’s a very classic brand. I love it. I feel comfortable in it and have no problem with them being on my shirt.  
Well I ’ve worn them for a long time and normally have a logo there and changing now so I said let ’s just leave the horse on. The lady that I work with has been great. She knows what I like now and she sends me stuff and I write her back and say that was perfect.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT