CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 23, 2013
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another good day out there.   How was the course playing today? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   I thought very similar to yesterday, and I played in the morning.   I thought the greens would be a little firmer, but I felt they were pretty close.   I mean, I'm not sure, but I think so.

Q.   What's been the biggest key for your game over the first two days in this tournament? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Probably ball striking.   I've given myself a lot of chances into the greens, so I think that's the key.   If you can keep it in the fairway and give yourself chances into the greens, then you're going to have birdie putts.

Q.   Definitely a different look of a golf course than we saw last week.   How did you adjust to the tighter course? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Sometimes it's kind of nice to have a tighter course, because you have to be a lot more focused and your swing has to be a lot tighter.   So sometimes you need to be a little bit tighter and a little more focused.

Q.   Doesn't matter how many times you've done it, it's still exciting to be in the mix heading into the weekend? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Yeah, yeah.   I enjoy playing in Canada, and I'm trying to run one of these down.   I've been close in the past.   I just really enjoyed playing the golf courses up here.

Q.   How close have you been? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   I don't know.   I know I've had some seconds and a lot of top 5s.

Q.   Looking at the leaderboard, it looks like a lot of Solheim Cup girls, Americans all over the place.   I think there are like eight at the top 15.   What's going on with that? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Last week completely baffled me.   I really thought all the Americans were playing good, and it's obvious this week too, so I don't know.   It's just golf.   Any given week.   I just think that we're pretty strong from top to bottom, and unfortunately we didn't get some putts to fall last week.

Q.   Mentally tougher than maybe people knew? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   The Americans, oh, yeah, oh, yeah.   I tell you, learned a lot about that team last week.   They're just solid players and they're great people, and they're a lot stronger than people give them credit for, again, from top to bottom.   All of them just mentally stayed in it, and they're great players. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT