CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2013
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just talk about the round, obviously a very solid round.   Just take me through birdies and all that good stuff. 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Do you want me to go birdie by birdie? 

Q.   No, just general is fine. 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, I hit it really well today, really solid, and I've been hitting it solid.   I think finally the ball found the bottom of the hole a little bit faster.   I think if you can keep it in the fairways on this golf course, you'll have chances at birdie.

Q.   Everyone has said the fairways are a lot more narrow just in general so obviously a lot more narrow than last week which were wide open.   Did you have to gauge into that a little bit making sure you were accurate off the tee?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Yeah, playing yesterday in the pro‑am‑‑ and my instructor has said that when you have wide‑open fairways, a lot of times your swing gets kind of loose because you can miss it more than normal and still hit a fairway.   So I had to really kind of focus in and get lined up correctly, because they are way more narrow.

Q.   Now, you felt like you played well last week, and ball‑striking and everything looked okay.   Did you kind of just push it behind or take positives from it, because you didn't play badly by any means?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Try to take positives from it.   I don't know, it's hard because I'm the only one that has to live with it.   I'm the one that it's probably haunting the most.   So it's been really hard.   I've thought about going home a few times, and I just don't think that would be‑‑ the best thing was for me to get back on the horse.   I had to get out and play and I guess just try to put it behind me.

Q.   I was going to say, I think you're back‑‑ how big is that to think you were like, oh, I can't physically and emotionally do it and then get back on track and go low today?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Yeah, it just felt good to get out there and hit the golf ball and just do my best to put it behind me.   I mean, like I said, it's something that I have to live with more than anybody else.

Q.   Was it nicer to kind of slow it down, not have to kind of‑‑ you're one of the more‑‑ you're fiery even on normal events, but was it nice for just you and your caddie to get back into that mindset?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Yeah, and they say you learn the most from your losses, and I learned a lot from last week.   A lot of that is I need to learn how to control my emotions, and that hasn't been a secret.   Everybody kind of knows that about me.   It was nice to be more flat‑lined out there today.   I didn't get real upset because I have kind of been‑‑ the last few days have been tough.   It was just nice to hit the ball.

Q.   Anything about this course that you think might pose a bigger challenge?   A lot of golf to be played, but anything in particular?
ANGELA STANFORD:   I think it's just hitting fairways.   Obviously they're not going to mow the rough, so if you miss fairways you're going to not have opportunities for birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT