U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2013
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How difficult was it out there today and this week, the course? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   I thought it was really tough.   I think they were really generous to us the first couple of days, and then I think they showed a little bit what this course can do on the weekend.   But they could have been a lot meaner, so it was good.

Q.   How impressive is it that Inbee is currently at 8‑under?   Would you have thought anyone would have reached that?
ANGELA STANFORD:   I didn't see that‑‑ thinking what they have done to the golf course, I didn't think they were going to let anybody get that low, so it's pretty good.

Q.   You have won tournaments before.   Obviously sometimes certain players are meant for certain courses.   Can you put into context Inbee winning the first three grand slams three different courses?
ANGELA STANFORD:   You know, it's something I thought Annika would do.   That's really the only player that I've played with out here that I thought would do it.   So I mean, I don't know how she's doing it, but obviously I know she's a great putter and emotionally she really keeps it under control out there.   I'm not sure if she hits it sideways.   I'm pretty sure she hits it pretty straight.
I didn't think ‑‑ after Annika retired I didn't think anybody would ever do it, so it's pretty impressive.

Q.   Do you feel like no matter how hard you tried you weren't going to go anywhere? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Today? 

Q.   Yeah. 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, I dug a hole early and that kind of made me mad.   I just won't give up, so I was trying to get it to at least level for the tournament, trying to get back to even for the day.   At the same time, you know, try to hit quality shots and not just keep going backwards, you know.

Q.   You said yesterday when you tried to be aggressive you paid for it.   Did that play a little bit to what you were trying to do today?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Not early on.   I actually tried to be conservative, and it got me in trouble.   This course can do it to you.   Just when you think you are doing the right thing, you just never know here.

Q.   You have played U.S. Opens before, how would you compare this course to other ones?   Obviously USGA likes to set up courses tough.   Where does this fall in difficulty?
ANGELA STANFORD:   This is one of my favorites.   Difficulty, it could have been a lot harder, but it was still pretty tough.   This is by far one of my favorites.   They got an A with the golf course.   And I'm not going to comment on everything else, but the golf course was magnificent.   Couldn't ask for a better venue for the USGA.

Q.   Given how good Park has been, and obviously it's getting attention for the game, but there's always talk about if we had an American superstar out there.   Some of your thoughts on that?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, you know, our Tour is such‑‑ it's just a global Tour.   I've just heard it so much and it just makes me so mad because it's not like the Americans aren't trying.   I mean, we're working our tails off.   And you know, to say that‑‑ I mean, at some point it makes me mad for the Asians, because it's like so what are you saying they don't belong here, they don't belong on our‑‑ so, you know, players don't see it that way.   The media does and it makes it tough for players and really tough on the Americans because we go home thinking, well, gosh, they are just pounding us but we're doing our best.

Q.   Almost like we're kind of a country which we think about we're winners, and everything else gets dismissed.   There's almost like there's not an awareness of how global the sport is and has been for a while?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, and I think once you see it more on the PGA Tour more people will be more accepting of it.   Because the PGA Tour hasn't seen it the our extent yet.   Once they do everybody will see it, I think.

Q.   Ultimately do you kind of feel like you are game your and your fellow American's games are under‑appreciated?   You go out there and play a good round, but you didn't win?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Yeah, I it seems like it.   I don't know how many Americans we had in the top 20 this week.   But I know people say you are not winning, but top 20, I mean, we counted last night there were eight in the top 15 maybe. 
So, I mean, I can't wait for August and the Solheim Cup, because we're going to have a strong team.   That will give people a chance to say, man, the Americans aren't too bad.   Just don't see it as much as we see it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT