U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2013
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHRISTINA LANCE:   We are here with Angela Stanford who today returned a 4‑under 68, six birdies, two bogeys here in her 14th U.S. Women's Open.   Angela, you looked pretty comfortable out there today.   Tell us how you felt? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Felt good.   I hit the ball really solid.   That usually helps me, and then my putting was really good too.   So overall it just felt really good out there. 
CHRISTINA LANCE:   If you wouldn't mind walking us through those six birdies and two bogies. 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Just right off the bat, number 1, if you can‑‑ that was my hybrid to like three feet.   If you can play the back of that green properly, you can get it close to that flag.   2, I hit it just pin‑high, probably 15, 18 feet, made that.   The bogeys on 5 and 6, I would say are caused by tee shots.   I lost ‑‑ on the fifth hole, I lost that drive in the bunker, fairway bunker. 
6, I kind of lost it right.   It was in the fairway, but funny lie.   It should have probably gone in the bunker.   So I was actually lucky to make bogey there. 
Birdie on 10.   Actually got to watch Lizette putt before me.   We were on similar lines, so I hit it to like maybe 10, 12 feet there.   11, I hit two great shots to like 25 feet, and I was happy that putt hit the back of the hole. 
14, hit, again, two solid shots, and actually had to putt up over a ridge, so that was probably 35, 40 feet, maybe, and that was a really good putt.   And once again, I kind of learned something from this Lizette's putt on that hole. 
And 15, 15, 15‑‑ why can't I remember 15?   Par‑5.   Oh, yeah, yeah.   Happy that putt hit the back of the hole too.   That was like 18 feet, and it was moving when it got to the hole.

Q.   It's been ten years since you lost the playoff to Hilary Lunke; I wonder if that left you with more of a burning desire to win one of these things, and how has that gone as the years have gone on? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, I'm still waiting, but, you know, my answer to this question hasn't changed.   I feel very fortunate to have had that opportunity, and that experience.   But I'm also very fortunate that I'm still playing and still competing at U.S. Opens.   Obviously, I'd love to have that trophy, and I'm very blessed with where I am now, and I know my time's coming; I just don't know when.

Q.   You referenced it a little bit, not that 30‑something is very old, but with everybody in this game and everybody around you, there are so many young players coming up.   How difficult is that to try to stave these girls off and get your piece of the pie, so to speak? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   I'm trying to be smarter.   But these younger kids now, I mean, they hit the ball farther; they are more mature and they are smarter about the game.   They're just a lot better than when I was 18 to 22.   But I still have a passion for the game, and I think that's what helps me hang around these kids.   I still love playing just got a few more years on them.

Q.   You were really able to keep your head after those two bogeys on the front nine.   Can you just talk about how big it was to just kind of keep your head going into the back nine? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, like I said, I learned a very quick lesson from yesterday.   When I turned yesterday, I missed kind of a short putt on 18, and I let it bother me and doubled the 1st and bogeyed the 2nd.   I don't think I ever really recovered from that.   I kind of fought it the rest of the way.   So I kind of told myself today to knock it off and don't make the same mistake.   I've already done it once. 
It was still going to be a long day.   I mean, we had only played six holes, so I had to kind of get back in it.   So I think yesterday really helped today.

Q.   When you first came here, did you like this place?   Did it suit your eye immediately or did it take some warming up? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   I really like it.   The very first time a couple years ago I remember thinking when I left I loved this place.   But if the USGA has its way here, we could all look very foolish. 
I think they've been generous so far.   This course could get a lot harder.   So I love it.   I love just visually it's beautiful.   You have to hit different shots.   I'm not crazy about the greens, but I don't know.   I told my dad on the phone, I'm like, Dad, I shouldn't like a place like this.   It seems to be very linksy, and I'm not into linksy type courses.   But for some reason, I don't know, maybe it's the big American flag flying up there, but I love it.   There is just something about it that is really cool.

Q.   All players from Texas are supposed to be good wind players.   Do you like it when it starts to blow like this? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   I love this question.   I hate the wind.   I do.   And I think it's just I told my caddie yesterday because I started hitting it lower, and the ball was going farther into the wind. 
I said, subconsciously it just happens.   I just‑‑ something happens that I don't know it's happening.   My body just starts doing whatever it does to make the ball go lower.   I don't like it, but I think I just know what to expect more than others.

Q.   How do you keep yourself from wanting this too much and trying too hard? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, I‑‑ you know, my caddie said something to me last week because we were talking about another event, and he said something that's made a world of difference.   We talk about‑‑ I mean, he's great when it comes to holding me accountable for‑‑ you know, I get really negative and he's really positive.   And he's like, you know, you've just got to pray for acceptance.   And I was like, whoa.   I didn't see that one coming. 
Like I just need to accept certain things, and I think I've been very upset that I haven't won a major.   I think that it's just I need to accept some things.   Like I was saying earlier, I'm very fortunate to still be playing. 
So I think there is a level of peace right now and it's different.   I'm not as mad as I usually am.   I have a lot of great things to be thankful for, so I'm trying to enjoy this week, and I'm trying to enjoy the scenery.   But I'm trying to accept things a little bit better. 
CHRISTINA LANCE:   Well, you've got a great mindset and a great round today.   Thank you so much. 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT