KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 6, 2013
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Angela Stanford to the interview room here at the third round of the Kraft Nabisco.   6‑under par 66, the round of the week. 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Thanks.   I didn't know that until you just told me that. 
THE MODERATOR:   Take us through it. 
ANGELA STANFORD:   I got off to a pretty good start.   I birdied 2 and then kind of got a little loose, missed a couple greens in the next couple holes, and really just tried to figure out my swing out there, just to kind of get it around.   I've kind of been fighting it all week, and I kind of found a thought that worked the rest of the day and made the turn and started hitting some good shots on the back.
I think these pin placements were familiar, so I knew once I got to certain parts of the green I was reading the greens pretty well today because they were familiar pin placements. 

Q.   Solheim Cup here, double points here, four‑time member of the Solheim Cup team.   Does that factor in at all, the thought of coming out here and having a good finish at the Kraft?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Yeah, I think any time it's a Solheim year, as an American you want to be playing well all year, not just leading up.   That's kind of obvious.   So I think if you can play strong in the majors, captains like to see that, too. 
So I think any time it's a Solheim year, you want to be playing good.

Q.   Is the course playing relatively easy?   Did you expect to see a lot of low scores today? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, I mean, I kind of glanced at a few leaderboards out there, and I mean, I thought so, because like I said, these pin placements were pretty accessible today. 
A little surprised that the leaders aren't completely running away. 

Q.   How close to the lead do you think you have to be to have a realistic chance tomorrow, not just you but anybody?   Where do you think you need to be?
ANGELA STANFORD:   I'll tell you, anything happens here, and being a major, that‑‑ I think five shots out you still have a chance on Sunday here. 

Q.   The last six years you haven't been out of the top 15 here, third a couple of years ago.   Why this golf course? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   We get to play it over and over.   I'm a slow learner, so I've finally got it. 
No, I think visually some of the holes set up well for me.   There are just a couple that don't, and they usually have these greens pretty firm and fast.   I love a fast green.   And I think I'm just familiar with it.   I'm confident in certain areas, and I know what parts of this course are going to jump up and bite me.   So I think when you're aware of that‑‑

Q.   Because of that familiarity, is this where you feel might be where the breakthrough comes?
ANGELA STANFORD:   I sure hope so.   I think that‑‑ you know, I've been reading‑‑ I just read "The Match," the book, and being from Shady Oaks, I know a little bit about Mr.Hogan's history.   So I know that his breakthrough was late, and he also won a U.S. Open on a course he was familiar with.   So maybe.   I hope so. 

Q.   When you see younger golfers, Americans, Jessica Korda, Lizette, is there a stronger number of Americans coming up?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Oh, yeah, I think it's cool to see their names up there, and they have a lot of energy.   I think it's fun to watch these young kids play well, and I think the Americans are playing good, and I think our future is very bright. 

Q.   I wanted to ask you about the U.S. Women's Open in '03 and you came so close and got a taste of that.   How much has that driven you to want to claim that first major?
ANGELA STANFORD:   If I knew then what I know now‑‑ actually flip that.   I wish I would have won that one.   I wish I would have stolen it from Hilary. 
I think at the time I didn't realize what was going on, and the longer I play these majors, the more I realize what they're about and realize how truly close I was then and I didn't even know it.   It has driven me, but it's like anything.   It's been a roller coaster.   Sometimes I want to stay away from these things and sometimes I want to win them. 

Q.   Obviously you didn't have too many mistakes today.   Were there any holes you'd like back, even with a 66? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   Yeah.   Again, I know out there what I'm capable of on certain holes.   12, that's where I made my bogey.   That hole, whether it's the tee shot or the second shot, I haven't figured that one out, even however many years I've been here.

Q.   What happened today?
ANGELA STANFORD:   I missed the green right on a flag that you can't really miss it right.   But I just‑‑ it wasn't‑‑ it was actually a bad swing. 

Q.   You talked about maybe your schedule being a little lighter this year, so what's that done for your mind, knowing you won't have to grind it out so hard down the road a little bit?
ANGELA STANFORD:   It's helped tremendously.   You know, I think you can get caught up out here in numbers and tournaments and‑‑ for me I just had to realize I'm 35 years old.   I've been chasing this for a long time.   Maybe I just need to relax.   So part of that's been nice because I've taken some of that pressure off myself.   So that has actually been really good for me mentally.

Q.   Is there anything you have planned like if you have some time off, maybe some cool vacations you want to do this year?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Stay at home.   I love a baseball game, so hopefully the Rangers are in town.   But we just spend so much of our time moving that I just would like to just be in Fort Worth, Texas, for a couple weeks at a time.   And some of that I bring on myself.   Sometimes on off weeks I don't go home.   But I'd probably just go home. 

Q.   The travel has become so onerous; do you think it will shorten the careers of the women that we might see fewer women playing into their 30s as you have? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   You know, I would say yes.   Just for the couple of incidents that have happened this year, it's just really hard.   It's really hard on your body.   It's hard on your family sometimes you know, I think about the players, like Juli Inkster and Meg Mallon and Beth Daniel and I think how late those ladies played.   I think now it might be 40 instead of 50. 
I hope these younger ones keep going, and that's why I say, if you can go to college and maybe not come out here when you're 15, you might play a little bit longer.   Just I hope some of these girls make it to their 30s because I think with their talent and add maturity, these girls could be real good later on. 

Q.   You said up front that you came here not hitting it that well.   What was your fix and when did you find it?
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, I can't tell you exactly what the fix is because I'm not 100 percent sure it's fixed.   I just tend to start losing it left and get off tempo and rhythm, and that might be a lot of it.   I need to keep it up the left side of the golf course.

Q.   Were you not very confident of your chances considering that you weren't comfortable the way you were hitting it coming here? 
ANGELA STANFORD:   I don't know.   I mean, I think once you get on‑site, and Mike Wright, my instructor, was here early why the week, and he just has an ability to calm me down.   We didn't really talk about my swing a ton when he was here.   He just has this way of putting things in perspective. 
So the first couple days this week really, I guess that's where I kind of found most of my confidence. 

Q.   You mentioned anyone within five shots would probably have a shot.   But as it is right now everyone is chasing Inbee.   Her game is very, very consistent.   Does that make her a little more difficult to chase down or all bets are off because it's a major?
ANGELA STANFORD:   I think somebody like Inbee, you know she's not going to make a huge mistake.   Like you're saying, the fact that she's that consistent, you know you have to make birdies to catch her. 
But sometimes that's okay.   It'll be good for me tomorrow to go out and think I need to chase somebody. 
THE MODERATOR:   Angela, thanks so much for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT