RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
September 15, 2012
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was a very early start, what time did you get up, and were you still half asleep on the first tee?  
ANGELA STANFORD:   Yeah, I think my alarm went off at 4.   I couldn't actually see the ball land until about the fifth hole.   Maybe my eyes are bad (laughing).  
   
 Q.   How different were the conditions today compared to yesterday morning?  
ANGELA STANFORD:   A lot better.   It's kind of frustrating now because it's absolutely perfect out here and the wind has died out.   But I'm very thankful that I got to play this morning and didn't have to finish my round yesterday.   It was a lot different.  
   
 Q.   Let's talk about the round, how happy are you to finish at level par through 36 holes and just give us your impressions?  
ANGELA STANFORD:   I can't remember ever being at even par after 36 at a British.   So I'm very happy with that.   Very happy with how I'm hitting the ball and controlling my ball.   
So I'm happy where I am.   I think that the scores are going to be lower this afternoon, but you know, we are going to play 36 tomorrow and I like doing that sometimes.   
So just get out there and when it's good, it's good.   I've had more good 36‑hole days than not.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the fact that they are going to make the cut 50 and ties; what is your impression of that, and are you happy with it?  
ANGELA STANFORD:   Well, my dad told me a long time ago, you never know what the weather is going to do when you start a tournament, so you'd better be close to the top.   You never know what's going to happen over here and I knew it being even yesterday, that that was a good spot.   
And when I heard that it went to 50, I could hear my dad in the back of my mind saying, that's why you have to play good starting from day one because you don't know what's going to happen.  
   
 Q.   What's your feeling that we have had two teenagers win on Tour?   
ANGELA STANFORD:   Obviously the media I think loves the younger kids winning.   I think it's good for our Tour if they are in it for the long haul.   I worry about the longevity of the Tour, because I've been out here for 12 years, and I'm 34, and I feel like my prime was‑‑ I'm kind of in the middle.   I get kind of fearful for some of these younger ones.   I hope they see their 30s out here because sometimes you play your best in your 30s.   That's the only thing I worry about is if they get too burnt out.   If you're winning at 15, 16, 17, I mean, think when you're 30; that's a long time.   That's a long time on Tour.   
So I hope that they are in it for the long haul, because then I think it's really good for our Tour.   
   
 Q.   Pretty consistent, would you say?  
ANGELA STANFORD:   Yeah, I actually don't remember some of the front side.   I know I hit one of the best 3‑woods of my life on No. 1.   Striped a 3‑wood into the first hole and I thought, I guess I'd better wake up, because it was tough I thought in the beginning.   
And the birdies, I think you if you kind just of stay patient out there and you find your spots where you hit it close‑‑ you're meaning to hit it close every time, but it doesn't work out, but the times it does, you have kick‑ins sometimes.   I think those are my birdies.   
   
 Q.   I saw you Tweeted yesterday where you've been through that before where you've had scores nullified, and you said it was not what you wanted the last time, but yesterday it was probably a good thing.   How much was your mind‑set today to take advantage of a restart?  
ANGELA STANFORD:   Very much so.   I knew that -- because I saw when I came off the course how far I had fallen, just being 4‑over through four holes.   So I was very grateful on the first hole today even hitting the 3‑wood into the first hole.   I thought, well, the 3‑wood didn't sniff the green yesterday.   So very thankful and I had been in both spots, and I felt for Bee Lang, because I knew she was 1‑under through a couple.   
I guess it all does even out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT