CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2011
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Angela Stanford into the interview room. Congratulations on your round today. Can you tell me just a little bit about how it went out there and what was working well for you?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, my putter finally decided to show up to a golf tournament, so that was nice. Just nice to see the ball go in the hole. I've had a lot of opportunities this year, and it was just nice to be out there and just felt really relaxed, just rolling the ball, and it was going in. It makes for a better day.  
 THE MODERATOR: You and Michelle were playing together and both of you had great days. Do you feed off each other when you're having that type of day, and you're seeing her make long putts and you're making long putts?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, I think any time you're in a group with somebody who is playing well, you kind of feed off that energy. It's always good to play with somebody who is making putts because it seems to be contagious.   
 THE MODERATOR: I saw the shot in on 18 and a great putt to finish off with a birdie. Can you just take me through were there any other great birdies that you had during the day?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: No, you know, probably number 2. I think I made like a 25, 30 footer. I kind of missed my drive out to the left and just came off of birdying 18 and 1, hit my drive on the left rough. Hit a decent shot up there and made that putt.   
 I think that's a moment in the round it either kills your momentum or it really gives you another boost. So that was probably the best birdie of the day.  
  
  Q. The weather didn't seem as expected. How did that change your game today?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: It's always a nice surprise when it doesn't rain. But when they say it's not going to and then it does, you know -- I was mentally prepared for the rain today. I actually showed up with my rain pants on, and it never really he owe on owe I mean, it sprinkled on us a little bit. But I think when you're mentally prepared for it, it's nice when it doesn't rain. It makes it better.  
  
  Q. Obviously, conditions were suitable to low scoring today. Do you see those holding up or do you think it will be tougher as the course dries out?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think it may get tougher as it dries out. Obviously the greens were soft, but the fairways were also soft. When a fairway is soft, if you hit it off line, the soft ground catches it. You lose the last couple of bounces.   
 So there are some areas out here that the fairways are a lot wider when it's soft. I think if it does dry out, those fairways get tighter because there are some run-out spots. You have to control your ball off the tee, but with wet fairways, not as much though.  
  
  Q. You were talking about the different courses every year that you play in this tournament. What is it about this course that you feel suits your game?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: You know, it's funny. Every time I come to Canada, I love these golf courses. I love that they're tree-lined. I love the grass. The fans are always here in large numbers. I don't know. I always had a good feel in Canada, and I've just really enjoyed the golf courses. I love tree-lined golf courses. So I just love being here. I would just like to take the trophy with me one of these times.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT