RICOH WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN
July 29, 2011
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Just give us your understanding of the events at the 18th fairway. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, back in the fairway actually we were told that it was out, so I never said provisional because everybody just kept saying it's out. Well, drop it and hit another one. So once we got up there, they said, well, it wasn't really out. I learned something today. I just thought that -- I didn't think I had to ever say provisional but I guess you always say provisional.

 Q. It's a tough school, as we know, it's golf. But when you got to that hole which one would you have rather played anyway?
 ANGELA STANFORD: That was the problem. I guess I could have made bogey now, I don't know. At the time I thought I only had to play the one on the green, so I don't know. I guess I would have to figure out a way to advance that ball and then try to get it up-and-down.

 Q. That's where the ball ended up, but where it was originally was right up against a fence. You were obviously unable to see that. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I probably would have hit it the same way, though. I was already thinking I was going to flip my putter, go on the other side of the fence, turn my putter and hit it off the toe just to advance it. I kind of knew the shot I was going to hit. But I guess it doesn't matter now.

 Q. You showed a great deal of honesty. Where do you view your position now? You could have been four shots off the lead but now you're six going into the weekend. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, happy it's Friday. Fortunately we get two more days, and you never know. I hit it in places today that I thought the ball was okay, and when I got up there it was not. Apparently anything can happen around here.

 Q. When you look at the scores and what's been possible today with a couple of 64s, what do you make the way you and the rest of your compatriots are tearing this place up this week?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, I'm surprised that the scores were so low today. I didn't think the pin placements were that easy, so I was surprised that a couple girls went low. But I guess maybe they played early. I think it does help to not have any wind blowing around here.

 Q. You've been playing in this championship for decades now. The best you've had is a tied 13th on your first appearance here. How much more used to the links shot selection have you become these days?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Getting there, but it might be Mr. Hogan pulling some strings for me up there. That's what I'm thinking. 

 Q. You're still firmly believing in destiny. We're firmly with you. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT