EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 23, 2011
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Angela Stanford into the interview room. Congratulations on your round today, two shots out of the lead.  
 ANGELA STANFORD: Uh-huh.  
 MODERATOR: What are your thoughts heading into the final round and about how you played today, I guess?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Played very consistent today. Had a few mistakes on par-5s, so that was unfortunate, but felt like I gave myself a lot chances.   
 I think that's the feeling you want going into Sunday, that you're playing consistent. Eventually the putts will drop.  
 MODERATOR: You were close to winning at the U.S. Women's Open, and now close at the top of the leaderboard once again. Are you feeling like it's getting closer, that you're going to get over that hurdle and pick up another victory?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, I think so. I've always been a big believer in you learn how to win. If you can get into that position more and more, it's just more learning experience. So I don't think you can ever really -- you can't learn too much.   
 So I'm excited to have an opportunity to be in the hunt here. Never really had an opportunity to win here. It's a great event, and I'm excited about maybe having a chance to win tomorrow.  
 MODERATOR: Been asking some of the other ladies who have been in here about how crowded the top of the leaderboard is and knowing how the scoring conditions on this course, that people can go low. Do you expect it to be pretty tight at the end tomorrow when you're looking at that leaderboard, that's it's going to be pretty tough competition?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, I haven't really seen all the names and all the scores, but I don't know, I mean, I think there is a low number out there that somebody hasn't shot yet. I mean, maybe tomorrow.   
 But I don't think it'll be this bunched tomorrow.   
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. You seem to be a very serene soul, good at producing your best in big events. Are you calm in life in general?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: No, I'm not. I consider myself pretty laid back, but I think in the big events the courses playing a little bit tougher. And, you know, I think this year I've really just tried to pay attention to details. I think sometimes -- I just think with more difficult conditions it's easier to pay attention to details.   
 For me, that is good, to be more focused on specific things. I am very detail oriented in my life, so maybe that has something to do with it. But I like tougher conditions because it just makes me focus on one shot at a time.  
  
  Q. That would explain why you've so often performed well at the British then.   
 ANGELA STANFORD: I have some work to do at the British. My finishes at the British haven't been very good.  
  
  Q. You've often featured early on, haven't you?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: The U.S. Open and the Kraft, yes, so I'm hoping to turn the tide at the British this year.   
 But the thing I kept remind inf myself around the course today - even though I didn't jump out in front - is that it's a process. The fact that I'm playing good right now leading into tomorrow and then leading into the British, that's very positive for me.  
 I can't always say I've been in this position when I get here. So I enjoyed being out there today and I'm going to try to win tomorrow, but there is a lot of good stuff going on.   
 I guess that makes it easier to be out there and play when you know there's a lot of positive things going on.  
  
  Q. We saw some really nice shots of you. I remember one you are in the rough, the trees that were just in front of you, and you hit the flag about. Are you the specialist of the rescue shots, or...   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, that one I got to hit a hook, and I grew up hitting a hook. My caddie just laughed. He didn't really say anything to me. I just pulled the club out and hit it. He was like, Yeah I kind of figured you knew what you were doing.   
 My normal ball flight has always been right to left. So once I got there, I kind of was excited because I got it hit that shot.   
 MODERATOR: Any more questions? Thank you very much.   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Thanks.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT