EVIAN MASTERS PRESENTED BY SOCIETE GENERALE
July 22, 2011
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Angela Stanford into the interview room. Congratulations on your round today. Now one shot out of the lead. Just tell me about your round today and your thoughts going into the weekend.   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, it seemed to get off to a good start. Birdied the first hole. Before we went out, I realized that the course could be scorable with some of the pin placements, so really just tried to take advantage of the pin placements today.  
 MODERATOR: Yesterday's conditions, a lot rain early, kind of made the course a little bit wet. How different was it out there today?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, we didn't have our umbrellas up the whole time, so that was nice. Much different, because we played in the bulk of the rain yesterday. So it was nice to be out there and only have to worry about the wind.   
 It was a beautiful day, so nice to not have rain suits on and umbrellas up.  
 MODERATOR: Ai has been playing very well too and you've been playing together the last two days. Does that help when you're playing with someone that's getting on a roll?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think so. Ai is such a nice person. It's always a pleasure to play in her group. She's playing well, and any time you can see somebody rolling the ball in the way she does - and Na Yeon Choi was making putts, too - so I think it does help the group to see the putts going in.  
 MODERATOR: Coming off the U.S. Women's Open where you played extremely well, do you feel good about your game coming into this week, and are you building off what were able to do there?   
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think so. It's funny, because every time I get here I seem to struggle a bit here. So this is kind of unfamiliar territory for me.   
 Looking forward to playing the weekend. I have been swinging good and thinking good, so hopefully still building.   
 MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. I think Karen Stupples said the pins were like a dartboard yesterday and you could attack them. Could you just talk about that.   
 ANGELA STANFORD: I felt like today was more of a dartboard kind of deal. Yesterday seemed like they were just over some ridges, and today seemed like you had room to spin wedges back to 'em.  
 So I felt like today the pins were a little bit easier than yesterday.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT