CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2009
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ANGELA STANFORD: No. 3, bogey, I hit a 9-iron in to probably 35 feet and 3-putted. 
 4 I doubled. I just didn't hit a very good gap wedge from the fairway and it plugged in the bunker, chipped it and missed a 4-footer for bogey.
 Birdied 9. Driver, 6-iron, little pitching wedge to like ten feet. 
 11, I hit a little 7-iron to probably ten feet again. 
 17, hit driver off the tee box to probably 40 feet from the flag, but I was kind of short of the flag and off the green, and I chipped in for eagle. 

DANA GROSS-RHODE: Another great round, a Top-10 finish and you were talking about loving Canada, as well as you've done here the last couple of years. What do you think it is about Canada? 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think every time I come to Canada, the fans are great, the sponsor is wonderful, I mean, CN is one of our best sponsors. They treat us great. I haven't not liked a golf course yet in Canada. 
 And this golf course is actually the one, the first of the week, I was like, man, it finally happened, I'm finally playing a course that I don't like up here. But it kind of grew on me as the week went on. I don't know, I enjoyed playing here and it was a great week again. 

 Q. The gap between you and the leader --
 ANGELA STANFORD: Something had to happen fast. If you're five back starting the day, you need to make up as much ground as quickly as possible and I went the other direction. I just thought, you know, just hit one shot at a time and if anything, get back to par. Because I haven't played many four-round events that I don't have a round over par. So that was kind of what was motivating me out there. 
 I knew I wasn't going to win at some point, and just decided that I would really like to just get it back to par for the day and just try to not have the round over par for the week.

 Q. And you do come away with two of the more memorable shots that the fans will remember, the putt yesterday and the chip today. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: We got to 17 and I'm like, why not. You know, we need a birdie. We don't have anything to lose and we got really lucky because I hit a really good shot but then the wind -- the flag is on the grandstand behind the green, shifted three different times; and I got lucky when I hit it, it was blowing down and left and I just chipped it in. 

 Q. (Thoughts on chasing Suzann). 
 ANGELA STANFORD: I guess so. Obviously you want to win, but at that point when I realized that I wasn't going to win, you obviously want to be second. Suzann -- I think Suzann won the tournament yesterday and the way she played yesterday in the wind, it created such a gap, I got off to a bad start; I feel very good about how I finished, since it was such a bad start.

 Q. Was the wind more subtle today than the first three days? Did you have to be a little bit careful today, because from time to time, it would gust a little bit or it was a little more inconsistent perhaps over course of the round. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, I would say more inconsistent. I felt like it wasn't blowing as hard on the front or kicked up once I made the turn, and it was going, you know, it would shift knew and then be with you and so it was more inconsistent today than any other day of the week.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Angela, another great finish, congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT