CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 5, 2009
Angela Stanford
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. The eagle, wow. Great way to end this round. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. It was unexpected. I was just trying to get it down there and get it tight and trying to get it back to 8. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). Tomorrow's round. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. I think so. I think I still have missed some opportunities out here, so maybe I still have a few birdies in me.

 Q. So you're trying to chase Suzann. What kind of strategy do you go into with that?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Gotta make a lot of birdies. She's one of the best in the world, and she's not going to make many mistakes, so I just gotta make more birdies. 

 Q. She (indiscernible). Does that surprise you at all given how close she's been so many times?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Oh, yeah. She has amazing talent. She strikes the ball as well as anybody out here. 
 You know, she's very strong. So yeah, it does surprise me. 

 Q. Is it difficult as a player to have that big a lead sometimes as your approach maybe?
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think sometimes. I think you'll be more conservative and try to play to not trying to not make mistakes, but you're just trying to don't put yourself in situations to cause you more stress. 

 Q. Because you're probably thinking that pars are good enough?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah, because if you have a four- or five-stroke lead, somebody's gotta to make at least five or six to beat you. You don't have to make as many, so you try not to make as many. 

 Q. Do you have five or six in you tomorrow do you think?
 ANGELA STANFORD: I think so. I'm going to give it a whirl. 

 Q. Can you draw on any experience from today or the last couple weeks. Can you draw any from that to be able to say, okay, I can really go at Suzann?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Yeah. I think so. You have to play one shot at a time. 
 Solheim Cup was a perfect example of that. You really had to play one shot at a time, and each hole counts, and that's very fresh in my memory. 

 Q. And I guess you have some terrific memories of that. Can you come from behind or it kind of sums of your personality coming from that far behind?
 ANGELA STANFORD: I don't know. I know I've lost a few, but I don't think I've ever come from behind. 

 Q. New test for your personality. Are you learning anything more about this golf course, other than the fact there's a lot of wind in southern Alberta?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, it played very different today. It was completely different. 
 The par-5s that you could get to easily now are kind of into the wind. So it all depends on how the wind blows tomorrow.

 Q. Are you trying to the fact that it's Europe versus America all over again?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Nah, I like Suzann. She's a great player. She's a lot of fun to be around, so we'll go out and have a great day and see what happens. 

 Q. She's suffered some heart break the last few weeks. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Well, I don't feel that bad for her, (laughs) not bad enough to not show up and fight tomorrow. 

 Q. Are you looking forward to the chance of playing in the final group tomorrow and be right there with her?
 ANGELA STANFORD: Oh, yeah. Any time you have a chance to play in the final group and you have a chance to win, that's what we're out here for. It's just another opportunity, so I'm looking forward to it. 

 Q. Would you have expected to find yourself in this position on Wednesday or Tuesday, had they asked you?
 ANGELA STANFORD: To be perfectly honest, no. Still kind of tired and dragging a little bit from Solheim and last week and just trying to catch my breath, so I think that's why I've played well is that every day I've gone in thinking one shot at a time and be happy with a par and move on. 
 So yeah, I'm still kind of dragging a little bit, so I'm a little surprised.

 Q. If I'm not mistaken, I think it was a couple years ago in London you took the lead at this tournament at the end, and Cristie had a great round on the final day just to beat you there. Do you relish the opportunity to reverse that kind of opportunity?
 ANGELA STANFORD: You know what, it's funny you say that. I thought about that coming off the tee box on 18. If I could get it, it would be really ironic if I were down four and win tomorrow. 

 Q. And here we are. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: You never know. 

 Q. Thanks Angela. Appreciate it. 
 ANGELA STANFORD: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT