U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2015
David Oraee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  67 today on the North Course.  What went right?  Lots of birdie putts?  
DAVID ORAEE: I didn't hit it great.  I was kind of all over with the tee shots, and second shots weren't super close, but I putted well today.  We have a college tournament here on the North Course, so I played last fall, so I kind of knew about the greens and kind of just left myself in really good spots.  So I always had pretty easy putts, as easy as you can have on these greens, and that helped a lot.   
 Q.  Putts of length?  
DAVID ORAEE: I made a few 15-footers.  I think my longest was like 20 feet.  Yeah, a lot of like 10-footers all day for birdie.  Nothing super close.   
 Q.  You said your putting was what you did well today.  Was that something that you made a game plan out of, out of practice round saying, I've got to putt on these greens for me to score?  
DAVID ORAEE: Yeah, I mean, to play well you've really got to drive it well and putt well just to put yourself in position, and it's so easy to get out of position, and if you don't putt well, you're not going to save anything.   
I just kind of made an effort to just kind of let it go and be free with it and just let it happen.   
 Q.  How does it feel to have an under-par score at the North Course under your belt?  
DAVID ORAEE: Feels good.  This is the course I knew more, that I was more familiar with, so happy to play here in the morning and just have South tomorrow in the afternoon.  But I knew anything under par would be good today, and happy to be 3-under.   
 Q.  How many U.S. Ams is this for you?  
DAVID ORAEE: One.   
 Q.  First one?  
DAVID ORAEE: Yeah.   
 Q.  Did you feel any extra pressure or --  
DAVID ORAEE: Not too much.  I've been playing pretty good all summer and just kind of -- I knew I had to just take it to the course.  I felt good, but obviously a few nerves.   
 Q.  What's your best performance this summer?  
DAVID ORAEE: I haven't played that much.  I took a summer course actually at CU, so I played in the qualifier for this and then I played in the Colorado Open as an amateur, and I was low am there.   
 Q.  How close to the lead?  
DAVID ORAEE: Not very close.  The guy kind of ran away with it.  I ended up being like 15th or 20th place.   
 Q.  This is your first U.S. Am and you've probably talked to some people how to approach it and what you need to do, and you shot a good score on perceivably the harder golf course.  You made your path to match play a little bit easier.  What do you think about for tomorrow now?  
DAVID ORAEE: Same game plan, just play aggressively.  I don't want to play timid.  The South is not a cake walk, either.  I played it yesterday, and it's still pretty tough.  I just need to kind of do the same thing, just be smart and kind of leave myself easy putts and try not to make more than bogey, and the rest should take care of itself.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT