THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
October 23, 2020
Bianc Pagdanganan 
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









^
Q. All right, here with Bianca Pagdanganan after her round today.  Bianca -- I know, I've been practicing.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   That's great.
Q. Tell me about how you're feeling after day two here at Reynolds Lake Oconee.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Well, it was really humid out there so I tried my best to stay hydrated.  I feel pretty good about my round.  I guess off the tee I wasn't that confident, but my iron shots definitely saved me today.
I was making a couple putts.  I missed some, but I was able to bounce back and just drop some birdies.
Q. Tell me also about yesterday.  We were talking and you said that it was going to be a little bit more humid in the morning; that's what you were preparing for.  Were there any other changes to the course as you competed yesterday in the afternoon and now in the morning here?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Didn't really feel that much of a difference.  It wasn't that windy.  There were a bit of gusts.  But for the most part I did pay attention to my distance, especially in the morning just try to make sure I have my numbers right.
Those are some common mistakes that I usually tend to come across.  But, yeah, I tried to be a little bit more aware throughout my warmup and just look at my surroundings.
Q. I know you say you still didn't hit a lot of nice shots, but you ended with a 5-under round.  You vaulted up the leaderboard today.  How comfortable are you in your game at the moment?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   I don't know.  I feel really relaxed out there.  I'm really enjoying this whole environment, and with the course being by the lake it's really beautiful.  I mean, I just take everything shot by shot.  I missed a green, but my mindset was just like, You know you can still save par.
I guess it was more just having the positive mindset throughout the round and knowing I can bounce back from not-so-great-shots.
Q. You and Matilda Castren in your group, she's coming off a win on Symetra Tour, but you guys seemed to be trading birdies back and forth.  What's that like when someone in your group is feeling the momentum and feeling that groove?  Does that help you?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Yeah, it does.  I'm good friends with Matilda so I get to see her quite often.  Yeah, like you said, it's really nice to have someone who's like probably on the same momentum.  You get to ride that wave.  I don't know, just really depends on how you take it and handle it.
For the most part, it's really nice to be on that same level.
Q. You were able to take advantage of some of the par-5s today, especially that No. 18, that birdie there.  Take us through that hole in particular, especially as one of your closing holes today.  What is it about these par-5s here?  Do you think they're reachable for the distance that you do get?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   I'd say they are pretty reachable.  If anything, there is one par-5 I really can't get on in two.
On 18 I did hit a really solid drive, but when it landed it kicked right.  I was looking at my caddie, I was just like, I hope it didn't kick back in the rough.  I hope it took a pretty good bounce.
While we were walking up to it I was lucky it bounced out of the rough.  Had a great lie on the fairway.  I had 165 yards.  It was downwind, but we were kind of debating between an 8 or a 9, but just to play it safe we clubbed up and hit a nice punch shot.  I hit the shot that I wanted.  Got it to around I think 30 feet maybe.
Then I just didn't try to be too greedy.  If I made it, good; if I stuck it close, that's fine, too.
Q. One more from me before we head over to Ophelia.  What are some things you'll work on today or even into Saturday to keep yourself up at the top of the leaderboard?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Maybe practice a little bit more putting and then maybe a little of my woods.  I don't know, some of my tee shots.  Try to get a little bit more confident, so maybe head to the range and try to work on those.
Q. At the moment, too, before the afternoon wave closes in, right now you're one of the top three people on the leaderboard, which could potentially mean a final grouping tomorrow.  Do you ever think about things like that?  I know you were really close at KPMG as well.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   I guess sometimes I do.  It's really nice to put myself in contention.  Like, yes, it can be nerve wracking, but at the same time you really have to experience that and know what it's like to be in a good position in order to play well in future events.
Yeah, of course like it crossed my mind, especially when I was playing well today.  I was just like, Maybe you can put yourself in a good spot for the next two days.
Q. Ophelia?
OPHELIA BUNUEL:   Hi, Bianca.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Hi, Ophelia.
OPHELIA BUNUEL:   Have you ever played in a tournament and the location was so beautiful that you decided to come back for a vacation?  Is Lake Oconee going to be one of your new vacation spots?
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Definitely.  I played a practice round, and the first practice round I played I was -- I think I was playing the back nine and the sun was setting and it was beautiful.  I kid you not, I was stopping on every green taking any picture I could, and I really enjoyed everything.
I'm really hoping we can come back here next year.  It's really beautiful.
OPHELIA BUNUEL:   Absolutely.  Thank you.
Q. Thank you, Bianca.  That was perfect.
BIANCA PAGDANGANAN:   Thanks for watching, guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT