AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 2, 2000
Jerry Manuel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  What went into your decision to leave Eldred off the roster and set up the rotation the way you've done?

JERRY MANUEL:  Well, he was still feeling some discomfort, and we didn't want to take a chance in him not feeling good or hoping that he would feel good at some point during the playoff series.  So we made the decision that it would be best that we hold off on Cal Eldred since it was such a tough surgery to begin with. 


Q.  I don't know if you already made it public from Seattle, I didn't hear it, what do we have following Parque as far as your rotation?

JERRY MANUEL: Baldwin and Lowe. 


Q.  Where's Sirotka?

JERRY MANUEL: Tomorrow  -- I mean second game. 


Q.  Parque, Sirotka, Baldwin, Lowe?

JERRY MANUEL: Parque, Sirotka, Baldwin, Lowe.  I thought you said "after Sirotka." 


Q.  I'm sorry. 

JERRY MANUEL: That fourth game, I'm just putting out things out there.  (Laughing.) You got to be careful with me. 


Q.  With Baldwin, what was the thought behind Baldwin? Was it because of what you saw yesterday, even though the stats weren't in his favor but you said that you saw something in him? What went into him?

JERRY MANUEL: He matches up pretty well against this particular club, he's had some success against this club, and also he feels real good, and this period that he'll have in between will give him a chance to get on the mound, which is something that he hasn't been able to do on a regular basis since the, you know, the shoulder flared up on him.  So this will give him a chance to have a side day in between the start, and it will put him right on schedule. 


Q.  Could you talk a little bit about Seattle, take Griffey Junior out of that line-up from what you saw the first two years you managed, and here they are in the playoffs.  How do you see them doing that and how big an accomplishment is it? One follow-up with Eldred, would he be done from the playoffs or would you consider him later if you had a later?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, first of all, Eldred, yeah, we'd possibly, you know, depending on how he feels, yeah, he would definitely be a possible candidate later. The answer to the first part of the question is that, you know, I think Lou has done a good job with that particular club.  I think a lot of times when you lose a superstar, a lot of other people start to emerge and evolve and, you know, start to take on bigger roles and I think that's what has happened with that team.  I think they put some good men together when you had Olerud, McLemore, even, you know, Mike Cameron.  Cameron's not only a good player, but he's a good man.  So I think that lends to, you know, somewhat to chemistry of a clubhouse, and not that Griffey took anything away from it, but it's sometimes difficult for a team when one guy's getting all the attention and nobody else is.  I mean that's just my opinion.  I really wouldn't know, you know, Lou would probably be better to answer that than myself. 


Q.  We've been asking you about post-season for a long time, probably all the way back to June.  Are you anxious now to finally get it going?

JERRY MANUEL: (Laughing.) Yeah, they have, since June.  We're very excited about this opportunity for this particular group of players.  We feel that we have a very special group of young men who have from spring training bought into the philosophy of team rather than individuals, and, you know, have  -- we've fought together, we've lost together, we've won together, we've put together streaks.  We've had a good year.  We've had a real good year.  We've had some bumps in the roads, but we've been able to, you know, overcome a lot of things.  So I'm very excited about this opportunity for this group of men.  This is probably as close a group of men that I've been around in, you know, in all my years of being in professional baseball.  I think regardless of what happens, they'll remember this year as a special year for a long time. 


Q.  So Eldred's out, does that mean you have ten pitchers? Are you replacing him with someone?

JERRY MANUEL: No, we're gonna go with eleven pitchers, and Chad Bradford will be the guy that replaces Eldred on the roster. 


Q.  Why is that?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, I think he matches up pretty good from all the right-handers that they have, A-Rod and Camerons and Hendersons, so on and so on. 


Q.  What about the position players, have you figured that out?

JERRY MANUEL: That will probably be a last-minute decision, we'll probably determine whether we take an extra infielder or outfielder.


Q.  Is Herbert okay?

JERRY MANUEL: Herbert's okay, we just want to be sure. 


Q.  When Thomas was in here, he said that he made a large change in himself and that that affected the team coming together.  Is that what you had in mind when you affirmed your authority twice?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, I think in Frank's situation, I think the biggest thing that changed Frank was the fact that Frank decided to make some adjustments.  I thought over the years just by seeing him from a distance, you know, his  -- I thought his stubbornness was probably his best weapon and his discipline also was his best weapon, but I think the league made an adjustment to Frank and it took the league a while to adjust to him.  And Frank, in turn, made the adjustment back.  And I think that's the biggest thing that I see in Frank, is that Frank is willing to make an adjustment not only during the course of the game but during the course of an at-bat.  A lot probably has been made of our confrontation in spring training, but most of that was really miscommunication and most of that miscommunication was all my part. 


Q.  How disconcerting is it to go into the final days of the season with three key pitchers facing a health concern and to go into the post-season with two key pitchers in your rotation?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, I think the thing is that in order to get to post-season, obviously you are gonna have some casualties.  Unfortunately for us, they lie in the area of starting pitching.  And what we have to do is to be able to overcome those things, and I think we have enough men that we could do that.  And I'm just looking forward to it and excited for our opportunity.  I mean we might be sending out a Gideon's Army, but I'll take that Army any time. 


Q.  You've watched Sirotka.  Can you give us an update on what you've seen in the bullpen?

JERRY MANUEL: Sirotka threw a little bit on the side today, had some  -- threw some breaking balls that he felt very comfortable with, and we could have probably started him tomorrow but we think the extra day will do him a world of good.  So we feel pretty comfortable with him going the second day. 


Q.  Basically coming down to Wilson and Joe Crede and McKay Christensen?

JERRY MANUEL: Yeah, that could be accurate.  That scenario. 


Q.  You want to see how Herbert responds?

JERRY MANUEL: Basically  -- Herbert's fine, we just want to look at everything possible a little bit later this evening, and then, you know, make that final decision before the morning.  But Herbert's fine. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT