AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 6, 2000
Jerry Manuel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. When is the last time you felt peer pressure like you did last night? You shaved.
 
 JERRY MANUEL: No, I felt that it would take the pressure off the team, with the beard.  
 
Q. Jerry, is anything up with Howry? It seems the first game -- the first game he came
out quick. And the second game it seemed like there was a spot you could use him, and you
didn't?
 
 JERRY MANUEL: He has had a little discomfort in his back, and we're just trying to hold
him off a little bit. But he's had a little discomfort. Right now he's probably back to a
hundred percent. If you -- you kind of watch the first time that he came out of the job,
his velocity was uncharacteristically down for him, having the rest that he had had going
into that particular outing, so we knew that there was something wrong at that point. 
 
Q. Just comment on the mood of your team this morning.
 
 JERRY MANUEL: They feel like they got a new manager. I'm shaved and ready to go, Spring
Training. They're pretty satisfied. Pretty happy. Everybody feels pretty good. We feel
like if we could just win a game, that the momentum could easily shift; and how long that
will last, no one knows. 
 
Q. Can you talk about the line-up changes you've made for today? Maybe you want to give
the line-up.
 
 JERRY MANUEL: Okay. You want me to give the line-up? Ray Durham will be playing second
base. Jose Valentin is short stop. Frank Thomas at first, Ordonez, right field. Harold
Baines is the DH. The reason, Harold has had some success against Aaron Sele, another
reason is that Harold gives us another -- gives us kind of a veteran presence in the
middle of the line-up. I think we've been kind of missing that. Behind Harold will hit
Charles Johnson. Charles Johnson also is an experienced player, that is also having a good
series. So it gives us a chance to really bunch some experience together and hopefully get
some good veteran at-bats. After that is Herbert Perry, who's played well. Carlos Lee will
be down in the 8th spot. Maybe that will alleviate some of the pressure that he's been
feeling in the 5th spot. And Chris Singleton will be in center field. That will give us
obviously another speed guy in center. And the only reason probably for Singleton not
being in the 9th spot all along is because when you bring in a lefty, you can take him all
the way through Valentin, if you understand that strategy. So if you had him 8th, you
could -- you still have to go through Charles Johnson, a right-handed batter. If Rhodes
came in and he would eventually go through Singleton then through a righty in Charles, and
then obviously the two switch hitters; but obviously, Jose is a better lefty than righty.
That's been pretty much the reason that Chris has not been 9th in this particular order. 
 
Q. Jerry, would you hesitate to use Sean Lowe in long relief if need be?
 
 JERRY MANUEL: No, I wouldn't hesitate. I think the situation would have to be one where
obviously we have used the other options that we do have. We do have Barcelo, and Buehrle
that have been accustomed to pitching long, a long -- long stints, rather. So we do have
some people that are available for long relief. But if we got into an emergency situation
late in the ballgame and Sean Lowe was available, then we could possibly use him there. If
we had to go extra innings, we use everything that we had to obviously to try to win the
ballgame. 
 
Q. Jerry, was the beard thing a superstition?
 
 JERRY MANUEL: Not for me. I'm not a -- I believe in other things. That's not one of
them. 
 
Q. Could you tell us who got you to shave it off?
 
 JERRY MANUEL: Frank Thomas's father said we hadn't been hitting since I had the beard
is the word that I got from Frank (laughter.) I figured I'd do something for Frank. 
 
Q. What did he say today when he saw you?
 
 JERRY MANUEL: Actually, Frank was so focused, I don't know if he even noticed. But I'll
make sure that he sees. I'll walk by him a couple of times: Hey, how are you doing, Frank?
He's pretty focused right now. 
 
Q. What do you expect from Baldwin today?
 
 JERRY MANUEL: I would hope that we could get close to 80 or 90 pitches and have him
somewhere in the 5th or 6th inning. That would be a good situation, a good scenario for
us. He has been pitching in some discomfort, so he could possibly be something that could
happen very early that we would have to obviously make changes. 
 
Q. What would be the tolerance level with him? As quick as it's been all year with
anyone? You really can't let this thing get out of hand. As soon as he struggles, if he
hits a guy or walks, do you have in mind where the limit ends?
 
 JERRY MANUEL: No, I think you'd have to kind of feel out the situation, how -- I'll
probably ask how he was in the bullpen. I normally don't ask, but I'll probably ask. And
was he locating, and how does he feel, that type of thing. And if not, then obviously that
might go into a decision, if we have to make one early. 
 
Q. Sometimes we don't always know who's available to you in your bullpen before a game.
Is everybody available today?
 
 JERRY MANUEL: Yes, everybody is available.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT