AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 4, 2000
Jerry Manuel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is it better off to start real early and just get a tough loss like yesterday's out
of your system?

JERRY MANUEL: Probably so. It doesn't give you much time to think about what happened
yesterday or even last night to be honest with you. So it's good to know that there's
another game today. We're looking forward to it. 

Q. If you could second-guess yourself, is there anything you would have done
differently yesterday?

JERRY MANUEL: Knowing me, I do that all the time so there would be too many things to
list, but I don't know, I would probably hesitate to get into that because I probably
would manage it a little different, you know, about feeling. If that's how I feel at that
time, then that's how I feel. 

Q. Can you gauge the mood of your team today? Do you sense that all the jitters, all
the nervousness is gone now?

JERRY MANUEL: Yeah, I feel pretty good about our team. I think a lot of them,
especially from the offensive part of it, felt a little overanxious and what have you. I
think all the things that Von has talked to them about, about this particular time of the
year, a lot of those things happened yesterday. They didn't get good pitches to hit, they
weren't patient in key situations, and it cost them. But it's a great experience for them.
I'm really glad that we went through the experience. For the most part, I think it was an
entertaining baseball game yesterday, it's just unfortunate that we didn't win. 

Q. Two things. How did you think Herbert was health-wise yesterday, and what do you
make of Bradford's outing?

JERRY MANUEL: Health-wise, Herbert was fine. I thought we bunted him over, I think in
that one inning, he got to second pretty good. I think what happened on the ball that
Charles hit to centerfield, he hesitated and started back toward the bag because it was a
line drive. And even if he is at full speed, I don't know if we're going to get 3.4 out of
Herbert Perry anyway. I think Herbert Perry is 4.9 at best any way and right now he's
probably 4.91. So there's not a big discrepancy as far as his speed goes. He's obviously a
below-average runner and other than that, I don't know if you can go any lower than that,
below below-average runner. I don't think he's in that category. As far as Chad, I thought
he had a good chance to put Cam away. He left the ball out over the plate, obviously
didn't execute the pitch that was called and then he was just trying to throw a strike, I
think, to A-Rod. I thought he handled Edgar pretty good in keeping the ball in on him. He
showed him something a little different. 

Q. Obviously it's just one game, but did you say anything to Frank about not hitting?
Also, can you win without him in this series?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, I think after Frank's first at-bat, basically, as a staff we would
tell him to calm down a little bit. I thought he was a little bit anxious in his approach.
I think he really wants to do a lot at this particular time. I mean, this is a good stage
for him. I think a lot of things have happened to him this year, and obviously he wants to
prove to the nation that he's back and doing well. But I thought Frank kind of got caught
up in the emotion of the game and trying to do a little too much. There were times where
there were hits that we could have got that Frank was not at the plate that could have
broken the game open. So to answer your second question, I think that we can. 

Q. What can you do other than pitch around him when Edgar comes up with men on base?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, you have to be real careful. I think they have a good situation
when he's right after Rodriguez and right behind him is Olerud, a left-handed hitter. The
only thing that you can do is be careful and if it's late in the ball game, you know you
have a chance with -- your situation is better with Wunsch and Olerud probably than with
Edgar than anybody else because of the fact of his experience and he's such a great
hitter, such a great clutch hitter. 

Q. When Lou came out yesterday, everyone was kind of surprised when he talked to
Cameron. Is that gamesmanship or have you done that? Have you ever seen that before?

JERRY MANUEL: No, I give my signs to the coaches. If I go any place, it's to the mound.
I wouldn't go to a baserunner and tell him -- I mean, he obviously -- Lou had something
that he wanted him to do or whatever, and Lou does a few things every now and then. That's
no problem; he's a good manager. 

Q. Sirotka, is he on a pitch count today? What do you expect from him given he's been
out for a little bit?

JERRY MANUEL: Actually, I expect him to be a lot stronger today. So he will not be on a
pitch count unless he starts to feel some discomfort in the elbow. As soon as that
happens, then obviously he'll be out of the game. But as far as a pitch count for him, he
could probably go maybe into 115s, 120s. It depends on how he's pitching obviously at that
time. But if I had to put a limit on it, it would probably be in that area and depending
on how many times he's gone through the line-up and what they've done with him at the
times that he's gone through it. 

Q. Herbert Perry said that his hamstring is really tight today. Is there a point where
you feel like he might become a liability?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, we don't feel so. Again, I reiterate the fact that we're not asking
Herbert -- Herbert's not in there for his speed. He's basically in there for his clutch
hitting. We don't feel, with the range of motion that he's shown Herm and the strength
that he's shown Herm, that he might be half a step slower, but that doesn't make a whole
lot of difference in Herbert as far as his speed goes. He's been in a unique situation
where this is the first time that he's played third base in his career for this many
games. He hasn't basically shown great range to start with, and what he has done was he's
made the routine play for us and that's all we ask of him at this time. 

Q. The guys have been very good on the road this season. Is today a must-win situation?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, it's a chance where we need to win a ball game; that's for sure. I
mean, our backs are pretty much against the wall in this situation. I think if we can come
out of here with a win, we've played very well at Safeco Field, and we feel somewhat
comfortable on the road. The road doesn't necessarily intimidate us or affect us. We've
played good baseball on the road all year. So this is a good chance to see how we can play
in this type of atmosphere with this type of intensity. 

Q. Are you worried about the team being -- perhaps playing a little bit too cautious?
At the same time, you want them to be aggressive because this is such a big game. 

JERRY MANUEL: We've never -- especially offensively -- exercised caution at any time.
We have a game plan; we have a strategy. The guys know what they're going to be asked to
do, and if given the opportunity, we're going to do it. So we're going to play pretty much
our wide-open type of baseball that we played the entire year. 

Q. What's the condition of your bullpen, and is there anybody who won't be available
today?

JERRY MANUEL: No, we should be in pretty good shape down there today. I think even
though Keith threw - I think - 35 pitches, he should be able to give us an inning.
Everybody should be in pretty good shape. So we feel pretty good about that situation. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT