AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 3, 2000
Jerry Manuel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The obvious question is -- your decision in choosing not to have Mark Johnson on the
roster, was it tough having had him all year?

JERRY MANUEL: It was a very difficult decision for us to make, but the reasons that we
decided to go with Josh Paul was simply versatility. We only took one backup infielder;
Josh Paul plays some third base. At some point he has played some leftfield. He's probably
one of our better base-runners that we have in the organization, so we felt with, you
know, the status of Herbert that if we did not take the extra infielder then we were
almost in a position where we had to take someone else that was versatile. He fit that
bill pretty good for us. I mean that was -- it was a difficult thing in bringing in a guy
that had been with you all year and had performed well all year, and I think, too, Josh
Paul, when he was sent out, if you recollect, was probably at that time performing better
than Mark Johnson. So people say the guy has been here all year, but not to think of the
fact that the other young man had to go down before that. That was also a difficult
decision, too. So hopefully we get to the next round and (inaudible).

Q. Following that camaraderie, chemistry thing, those things have been part of the
ballclub all year. Was that part of the problem you wrestled with?

JERRY MANUEL: Not at all. Both those young men grew up in the organization. They are
both very well liked in the clubhouse. They both bring a lot to the table. It just so
happened that the versatility of one at this time when you are limited is a little bit
more important than a guy that's just pretty much relegated to one position. 

Q. With the uncertainty you continue to discuss, are these games, the first couple of
games, games that you manage by having your bullpen ready from the start, and how much
patience do you exercise on a given day like this?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, it's not a situation where you are saving anything, if that's what
you mean. I think we're in a situation where we have a number of people in the pen, and if
the matchups appear favorably early and our starter's in trouble, then we have issued a
warning to the bullpen to be ready at any point, at any time. So it will all really be
decided dependent on how our starting pitching goes. If they begin to struggle, obviously,
with the pen that we do have, we'll go to that immediately just to control the damage. 

Q. Without giving Seattle your game plan, how would you expect to use Harold in this
short series? And the second question, in the end, on the post-season roster is it your
decision or Schue's decision?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, I think the decision is a combination of his and mine basically. We
put up a lot of different scenarios, hash them out and obviously they have to be somewhat
validated by how they're gonna be used and kind of what I'm thinking. So in the case of a
Harold Baines, when would you use a Harold Baines? You know, just like I've used him all
year, if I feel that a Chris Singleton is not swinging the bat well or even Charles
Johnson is not swinging the bat well, then he'll be a guy that I won't be afraid to put up
in there against a tough right-handed pitcher. 

Q. When you talked, did you call him? How did that go down? What was his reaction? He's
a pretty low-key guy. Was he understanding, was he disappointed?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, you know, any time a situation such as that, definitely, before
anyone knows you call him in and sit down and talk to him and explain to him the situation
that we're in and the reasons that we're going in the direction that we're going. He
seemed to understand it. Obviously, you know, he was somewhat disappointed because he'd
like to play. But in this short series that we're in, there would have been no other
catcher that we're gonna use. Charles Johnson's gonna catch every game for us, whether
it's a day game after a night game, what have you, Charles Johnson's gonna catch every
particular ball game. So possibly either one might not be used and just because of the
versatility of the other one, we just decided to be safe. And we feel comfortable with
both of the young catchers; there's no doubt about it. We've been working with them for
most of the year. 

Q. With so many young players who haven't been in the playoffs before, how do you
expect them to handle the attention, the pressure, the spotlight, because it's so new for
them?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, that's -- I'd like to be prophetic and say they're going to handle
it well. But that's really the uncertain factor that's really going into the playoffs for
us, is how will we respond first inning, the first game, the first out and so forth and so
forth. But I think and hope that once we begin a game that it's the game that's bringing
the attention versus all the peripheral things that are involved. So it's going to be
regardless, one way or the other, it's going to be a great experience for this team.
Hopefully we can continue to sustain a good level of play and continue to play well and
continue to play on and on and on. 

Q. Every team needs a catalyst. A lot of Sox fans and media, too, believe that. As Ray
Durham goes in the post-season, so will the Sox. Do you believe that or agree with it 100
percent?

JERRY MANUEL: There's no doubt that he is the catalyst for our team. He is a guy that
starts the engine up. When Ray goes, normally we go pretty good, pretty well. And that
could mean both offensively and defensively. He's making plays, he made a play here
opening night that might have been one of our best plays of the year, to rob a guy of a
hit. He's gotten big hits in the cross-town rival series with the Cubs. He's gotten big
hits against the Yankees. He's gotten big hits against the Seattle club. I think he hit a
home run our last time there to win a ball game. He is very, very important to this team
as far as being a catalyst. It's not to put pressure on him because we do have a good
offensive line-up, but he's definitely one that initiates the startup. 

Q. Did it come down to Cal Eldred just not being ready?

JERRY MANUEL: Yeah, basically that was the thing. He was still somewhat sore, and we
felt instead of continuing to wait it out to give him more time, which has been only fair
to him and to the team. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT