AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 3, 2000
Jerry Manuel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Obviously the last two days the talk had been both from you and Ron, that you wanted to get to your bullpen.  First part of the question, why pull Parque when he seemed to be cruising; and, second, how does the bullpen recover from this when you guys rely on it so much?

JERRY MANUEL: Okay, first, the first part of that question, Jim Parque had thrown approximately 97 pitches and really is coming off of three days' rest instead of the full normal time of his rotation.  And he has really never, for the most part, entered into that part of the game too often.  He's normally been a five-inning, maybe six at most for us.  But he had to start this particular ball game because we had to set him up in that particular fashion with the short three days' rest and three innings last time out.  As far as our bullpen, I think our bullpen will be fine.  What happened was we had some opportunities in the ball game to really put the ball game away and basically we just didn't get the job done.


Q.  Why did Howry come out for another right-hander? Is there something with the matchup?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, I think Cameron hit a home run off him.  We didn't quite see the velocity I wanted to see from him in that particular matchup and I thought Bradford would give him something completely different and unique.  I thought for a while there he had him, he got ahead of him, 1-2, what have you.  He left the ball over the plate and did a good job of putting it into play. 


Q.  Can you talk about those missed opportunities and how they came back to haunt you?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, I mean that's a part of baseball.  They made the key pitches at the right time.  I thought there for a while that we might have been a little impatient in those situations.  That's a part of the youth that we have.  That's a part of the first-game jitters that you go through.  But, you know, I think for the most part that we played a decent ball game for our first game being in an atmosphere such as this, and I think we'll be fine. 


Q.  Did you consider at all pinch running for Perry when he was on second and then third?

JERRY MANUEL: What inning?

JERRY MANUEL: No, no, not at all.  I didn't think that at that time it was necessary for him.  I thought he was moving okay, but wanted to really keep his bat in there. 


Q.  Any different mindset being down 1-0 as opposed to being up 1-0 going into tomorrow's game?

JERRY MANUEL: You know, I think the thing that I was most concerned with was how we would perform, and I thought we responded real well.  I thought we were just a little overanxious.  I really feel good that I think we can score runs.  I think we can put runs on the board.  It's just a matter of us, you know, holding their offense.  But I feel pretty good about our chances, even though we're down a run  -- I mean a game.  But I think we should be okay. 


Q.  Piniella came out to talk to Cameron, you guys called an immediate pitchout.  He went on the pitch after that.  Can you talk about that?

JERRY MANUEL: We, in Foulke's case, we're not afraid to pitch out at any time because of the fact that he has the ability to throw a strike at any time, even for the most part, when Keith is behind.  It's probably when he is at his best, and he's the most dangerous.  So what he said to him, we don't know.  But that was the plan anyway, was to throw him a couple times and try to at least let it be seen that we would pitch out in those situations.  Obviously it didn't work.  I think the next pitch was a changeup for a swing and a miss.  I think the next pitch was a changeup that he hit.  So he's a good hitter.  Sometimes you have to give him credit as well. 


Q.  If the same situation arose tomorrow, could Foulke be ready, and if not who would that fall to?

JERRY MANUEL: Well, I think he could be ready.  I think if the matchup, if the situation presents itself where we have a chance to give ourselves an opportunity to win, I'm sure that he'd be ready to go. 


Q.  Did Keith get out of focus, you think, with the success of Cameron stealing the base?

JERRY MANUEL: No, I don't think so.  He's been in that situation a number of times and he's come in at the end of ball games and has gotten the outs when we needed it.  It just so happened that it didn't happen tonight, but we have all the confidence in the world in Keith.  If we had to do it again, we'd do the same thing.  It just didn't work out. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT