NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
April 1, 2007
Sylvia Hatchell
Ivory Latta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   THE MODERATOR:  We'll start with a opening statement by Coach and then go to questions for the student-athletes. 
 COACH HATCHELL:  I'm extremely proud of my team.  I felt like we should have won the game.  We have never lost to a team when they shot 27 percent.  I feel like defensively we did the job when you hold a team to 27 percent. 
 I'm really disappointed.  And just really proud of my team.  So that's really about it. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Again, we'll take questions for our student-athletes first. 

 Q.  Ivory, what was it like to sit on the bench there in the first half for so long and just not be a able to be out on the court affecting the game there? 
 IVORY LATTA:  It was very -- I was just hurting because I couldn't be out there with my team and help them get through it.  But Alex did a great job of leading the way and it just hurts so bad right now. 

 Q.  Ivory, can you talk about the defense that Tennessee put on you guys in the last eight minutes? 
 IVORY LATTA:  I could just say they played aggressive defense.  We was trying to get the ball to Erlana in the post.  They was definitely fronting her and doubleteaming and they just played aggressive defense. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you very much for joining us.  You guys can head back to the locker room.  Take questions for Coach. 

 Q.  Was there anything that you saw that in the end of the game that reminded you at all of the final regular season game against Duke where you had the lead going into the last couple minutes and then couldn't score down the stretch? 
 COACH HATCHELL:  Were we at the same game?  No.  They put extreme pressure on us and we -- it's hard for us whenever Camille and LaToya are sitting on the bench with five fouls. 
 We got all of our subs in there because we don't have our regular players out there because they have all fouled out.  So it's hard to execute.  So we were trying to get the ball into Erlana and then we just started driving and I wish if I had it to do over we had just every time just drove straight to the basket and at least tried to get on the foul line a little bit.  Because they shot 26, we shot eight. 
 At least I would have at least tried to get us on the foul line a little bit and maybe that would have worked some. 
 But they, again, we were trying to get ball inside but it's hard for us to function whenever LaToya and Camille are sitting over there on the bench. 

 Q.  Can you talk a little bit LaToya and Camille, the job they did on Parker for most of the game. 
 COACH HATCHELL:  Yeah, I thought they did a great job.  The best offense she had was the foul line offense.  So I thought we did a great job on her defensively.  So I was real proud of the job they did. 

 Q.  You scored some -- to take that lead in the second half you scored some fastbreak points that seemed to help you get such a big lead.  Can you explain maybe did Tennessee maybe do something to take that away near the end of the game? 
 COACH HATCHELL:  We got some steals and we got some fastbreaks off the steals.  And we got the ball out.  We were running the floor pretty good, especially Rashanda McCants.  And then when Camille and -- I think that we were -- we might have -- we should have been more aggressive. 
 Like I said, if I had to do over we would have just taken the ball to the basket and not tried to get the ball inside.  We just brought it down the floor and then would have taken it until they -- if they picked us up defensively and tried to draw some fouls and then get some just some kickouts.  Because it was hard for us to run anything because they were denying everything, especially the passes into the post.  And we were dribbling the ball too much.  We weren't passing it, moving it around.  We were dribbling the ball too much.  But again, they had us a little bit out of synch and that's usually what we do to people.  But again, they shot 27 percent.  So I was really proud of our defense and the difference in the game was on the foul line.  Let's be honest. 

 Q.  I was just wondering if you were surprised when you looked at the stats being how physical the game was, that you only shot 8 free throws? 
 COACH HATCHELL:  Yes.  I was very disappointed more than anything else.  But, you know, it's just the way it is. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Coach, thank you very much. 
 COACH HATCHELL:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT