U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 17, 2009
John Klauk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK STEVENS: Like to welcome Jeff Klauk to the interview room. If you can start off giving some general comments about your round today. And we'll go over your scorecard after we take some questions.   
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, it was obviously a little cooler out there today, but you know, played all right. It wasn't like yesterday obviously. Didn't make as many birdies. But I was able to stay patient out there, and you know, have a decent round of golf.   
  
  Q. When you look at the leaderboard and see a lot of different types of players and all manner of ages and experience levels, and Jeff Sluman is up there and a couple of rookies, is this the kind of course that doesn't favor anybody, straight or putting; that anybody can play well here?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, I think so. You can't overpower this golf course; obviously the par 5s, to be on a couple of them to get it down there. You just have to get it in the fairway and the greens are starting to get firm with the low humidity.   
 So, yeah, anybody can play. I mean, it's just a good, old-style golf course.   
  
  Q. How have the conditions changed from yesterday afternoon into what you -- obviously temperature dropped. How has the course changed I guess?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Not too much except for the temperature. The wind is still blowing. It's probably less today than it was yesterday. The pins I think today are just a little bit more challenging to make putts and stuff like that. There's been some low scores I believe. I've just got to keep plugging along.   
  
  Q. I can't imagine you guys playing in conditions this cool usually. Can you remember playing in anything like this the last few years?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, the West Coast, Pebble Beach and L.A., you get some cool stuff. It's actually pleasant out there. It's not that bad. You know, if it was ten degrees colder, it would be a little different story.   
  
  Q. How many sweaters do you have packed?   
 JEFF KLAUK: Just one. Just one for this week and next week and maybe you might need it in Michigan, too. So that's it. Just wear it out.   
 MARK STEVENS: Let's have Jeff go through his birdies and we'll wrap it up.  
 JEFF KLAUK: Birdied 2, just a little pitching wedge in there and left it below the hole and made the birdie.   
 3 was a bomb I don't -- even know how far it was. Has to be right up there with one of the longest putts I've made all year.   
 No. 5, I hit a 7-iron in there about three or four feet and made the putt.   
 So not as many birdies today, but that's a good round.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT