THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2009
John Klauk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Good couple of holes to end. 
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, I played a lot better than 71, I thought. Silly mistake, I can't ever recall chunking a ball on No. 8 into the water. At least I got it up-and-down for bogey. And then 9, you can't try to steer a shot up there. You've got to miss it right there, and I bogeyed there. I bogeyed 11. 
 But ended up birdieing 16 and 17. 17 is playing tricky today and the wind is swirling around. It doesn't know if it wants to come out of the west or have the sea breeze. 17 is playing very different. 

 Q. Were you surprised you stayed on the ridge there? It kind of looked like it might come down. 
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, I didn't hit a full shot by any means, so I figured it was going to stay up there above the hole.

 Q. All the times you've played this course, have you ever had two shots like that on 9, where you were and then where you were in the two bunkers?
 JEFF KLAUK: Well, I've hit it in that bunker for sure. I was debating whether to just chip sideways into the fairway and have myself a wedge because that green is so firm. I'm very pleased with the round. The course is getting to where they want it. I think by tomorrow it'll be where they want it.

 Q. You were showing some emotion out there. 
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, it was an important round. After yesterday's back nine I wanted to finish strong today. You know, it's moving day, and I just want to play well at my home course, too. I know this thing almost too well. I'm having a blast out there. 

 Q. You have three rounds in. Sitting at 2-under, would you have been happy with that before the tournament started?
 JEFF KLAUK: Probably so. I figured if somebody said you could get 10-under before the week started I would have said you'd have had to play perfect. I still feel like I've got a round in the 60s in me out here tomorrow. You know, it's going to be challenging. They're not going to put any water on anything, so it'll be fun. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT