THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2009
John Klauk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Jeff, a tale of two sides, right?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, sure.   
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about when you're playing well on the front?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, I hit it really well on the front. I've been moving on my putts a lot for the last few weeks. And when I missed the cup, the short one, then I started noticing it even more, and kind of got timid over it. Something I need to correct and be ready to go tomorrow.   
  
  Q. The good stretch on the front, did you feel really in a good --  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, I just hit it really well. I hit it really close to the hole. And actually could have been a lot better, believe it or not. The back nine is my favorite one, and I played the front nine so well this week.  
 Overall I'm obviously disappointed with the way I finished. But I'll be here for two more days.  
  
  Q. The 4 on 18 might make sure you play?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, that pin is so receptive. It's a tricky one, you can hit it very close, but if you miss the green anywhere you're going to have a difficult chip. So you're going to see a lot of guys make birdie there today, but you're going to see some guys make bogey, too.  
  
  Q. Did you think about that cut line at all?  
 JEFF KLAUK: No, not really. Maybe a little bit. But it was more it just got so -- just timid out there, just tried to guide the putts in the hole, which you can't do. The minute you start trying to guide things you're done.  
  
  Q. You said you were in your own world this week, but you have to listen to things going on out there and see that?  
 JEFF KLAUK: No, it's been great. It's what every guy -- player wants to have is a lot of support around, and it's been a lot of fun. I hope the next two days are just as fun.  
  
  Q. Do you think the newness or the novelty of being a PLAYERS rookie and all the media attention and everything, do you it think maybe that will settle down a little bit and you kind of hope Saturday, Sunday feels more like any other tournament, where your concentration is up there?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, believe it or not, yeah, just doing more media stuff. But it's really felt -- I've really tried to make this like any other tournament. I honestly can say that's the way I felt out there, except for obviously the more support than normal. It's been great.   
  
  Q. Is this something that's going to feel or seem better on Monday or even a month down the road when you kind of look back on the four days or the whole week?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Probably so. You never want to shoot 40, that's for sure.  
  
  Q. I mean --  
 JEFF KLAUK: But, yeah, to go from not knowing you're in tournament, then to be in the tournament, to be out of the tournament by two, and then to be in, now to be playing the weekend is great.   
  
  Q. What's the biggest difference between 17, playing it the hundreds and hundreds of times that you have and then throwing the ropes up and playing it in competition?  
 JEFF KLAUK: You can't really land the ball up top. If you do, you've got to have a lot of spin on it. And when you're normally playing you can just hit it wherever and it's going to stay. That's the main thing. This week just try to land it into the hill.  
  
  Q. They claim to put more water on the upper shelf than the bottom?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah. I've played there enough, and seen enough balls to go over the green. The last place you want to do is one hop it over the green, there's so much green in front of you.  
  
  Q. Do you have a key to the storage shed, you can go out there and grab a hose and --  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, I know how to do all that quick coupler stuff, yeah.  
  
  Q. You might be the only one smiling at 40, is that because you're here on the weekend?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, I'm not real thrilled. But I've got to look at the big picture, too. It's the first time here, we're on my home course. Dad being the superintendent. I'll learn from it and just get better.  
  
  Q. Making the cut here means more money, more points than other tournaments.   
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, absolutely.  
  
  Q. Is it a figure bigger deal making the cut here than anywhere else?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Sure. I'm obviously going to have to play well the next two days to make that worth anything. Yeah, but this tournament is a very big tournament.  
  
  Q. How much of the putting well is the greens?  
 JEFF KLAUK: The Bermuda greens get so fast and they're so tricky. Bermuda when it gets really fast I think is very difficult, whereas bentgrass it rolls a little more true. Bermuda has the grain in it. You really -- you've just got to commit to your line and trust it, which I had trouble doing on the back nine.   
  
  Q. A lot of familiar faces today and yesterday?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah, absolutely. There was a lot today. It's awesome because some of these people I haven't seen in a long time, years. It's pretty neat.   
  
  Q. It will be tough that you can't really stop and talk?  
 JEFF KLAUK: Yeah. And I try to -- everybody yells stuff and I just try to -- I hear it and it's like -- I can't turn around, it will get me out of my whole concentration mode. I just notice people in the crowds and try to do my own thing.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
\  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT