U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 21, 2002
John Klauk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOHN KLAUK:  We did this before but this time it means a little bit more.  Each time we do this it means a little bit more.  Especially getting to match play.  Anything can happen out there.  You want to play decent in stroke play.  You just want to give yourself a chance to get into match play.  And then hopefully play really well in the match play and hopefully give yourself a chance to win.
CRAIG SMITH:   Are you feeling like some of the other people out there who might know who you are now.  Now they look around the scoreboard and see names like yours and say, "He's a great player."
JOHN KLAUK:  I think definitely The Western helped out with that.  But most of the other players, we see each other pretty much every other tournament.  And you got a lot of college players playing.  So we see pretty much the same people and you pretty much know most of them. 
CRAIG SMITH:   Your match here this morning sort of looked like you just hung around and then wore him out.
JOHN KLAUK:  I kind of struggled at the beginning.  3-putted one and then a really bad wedge on four.  I just had to pretty much -- after I hit that shot, I gave the hole to him.  I hit it long and left and had no chance, and then kind of hung around, made some pars, kind of started playing a little bit more steady, started playing steadier.  I was more comfortable over the ball.  I wasn't feeling that comfortable this morning.  And then finished off with two great birdies on 15 and 16.
CRAIG SMITH:   How far?
JOHN KLAUK:   I don't know.  15 was about eight feet.  16 was about 10 feet.  
CRAIG SMITH:   Questions.
Q.  Forgive me if you've been asked this question before, but how much more confident are you after the Western in terms of your game and your ability to win?
JOHN KLAUK:  I would say a little bit.  It didn't really change that much because I had played pretty well during the school year.  But any time that you win, obviously, you're going to be feeling really good about your game.  When you win, usually that will carry over for a little while.  Just hope you play as well the next few tournaments. 

Q.  How does this measure up in your mind as a match play course?
JOHN KLAUK:   I think it's a great match play course because you have a lot of chances.  For instance like on 15, in stroke play I wasn't going to hit a driver.  Just hit an iron off the tee, just stay short of the bunker.  But in match play, I said, "I'll hit driver there, I think, pretty much every time."  And then the par-5s, two generally is reachable just if you hit just a decent drive every time.  Not so much trouble there.  But then on -- what was that other one?  On 12, I think that's just a great match play par-5 just because have you a lot of choices there and, like today, I decided to go for it.  It kind of backfired on me because I didn't make it.  I ended up parring the hole but I hit a 3-wood thin and just went right into that tree.  Unless you hit it just on left side, on the left edge of the fairway, I mean you got those tree to worry about. 

Q.  How does it feel to have one match under your belt.  Does it make it a little bit easier and was it harder this morning than it will be tomorrow morning?
JOHN KLAUK:  I hope so.  Because I was making it rough on myself this morning.  And then finishing with two birdies, I think that will carry over to tomorrow.  That will help me out.  Just feel a little bit more confident.  A little bit more comfortable.  First match it always seems like it's one of the tougher ones to win.  Just because you are going from stroke play to playing a completely different game almost, match play.

Q.  Do you like match play?
JOHN KLAUK:  Yeah I do. I like it.  I had a lot of success in match play.  So hopefully it will carry over this week. 
CRAIG SMITH:   Were you ever down in your matches at the Western?
JOHN KLAUK:   I don't think I was ever down in any matches.  I was just playing really well at the Western.  Didn't really, wasn't really making too many bogeys.  For the four rounds of match playing I was 17-under.  Just making a lot of birdies. 

Q.  When you looked at the bracket were there any did you say, oh, D J, he's going to be tough?
JOHN KLAUK:  I haven't even looked at it.  I just knew I was playing who I was playing today. 

Q.  Oh really?  Okay. 
JOHN KLAUK:  Yeah. 
CRAIG SMITH:   Do you ever allow yourself to think ahead if you were to win this you would be playing in the U.S. Open with Tiger Woods, playing in the Masters with Tiger Woods, playing the British Open.
JOHN KLAUK:  A little bit.  Actually it would make it a little easier for me deciding if I would turn pro.  Everybody asks me.  Because I'm going go back to school and finish up.  But that would make it easier because I would just stay amateur through the summer and see what happens from there. 

Q.  So this is going to be your senior year then coming up, is that right?
JOHN KLAUK:  I'm done with eligibility.  It will be my fifth year.  Sp I'm just going back to finish up school.

Q.  You haven't decided though whether you might turn professional?
JOHN KLAUK:  No, I haven't decided yet.

Q.  How many rounds have you played on your dad's course?
JOHN KLAUK:  Oh, thousands probably.  Hundreds a lot.

Q.  A lot?
JOHN KLAUK:  A lot.  That's pretty much where I play most of the time.  Ever since I was about 15 probably. 

Q.  Not a bad place to practice.
JOHN KLAUK:  No, it's just a difficult course like this course.  You need to hit it long and straight.  And I think that's an -- I mean, growing up there I think that's helped in the long run for my game.  Especially playing USGA golf courses, places like this. 
CRAIG SMITH:   Anything else?  Thank you so much. 
JOHN KLAUK:  Thank you. 






End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT