NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: ROCKETS v WARRIORS
May 24, 2015
Terrence Jones
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  TERRENCE JONES:   I mean, we've been in tough situations before when everybody has counted us out and had our backs against the wall.   I think today was more about us, and just to stay focused and not to listen to anything negative about us, anything said about us being done, just to go out there and try to give it all 100 percent.   Absolutely, I feel like we lacked a little bit of effort last game, and didn't fight like we've been fighting, like we fought in the Clippers game when we was down 18, 16, have that same energy out there that we need that can change the game around and give us the win that we need out of nowhere.

Q.   Why do you think that is, in such a critical, pivotal game, to lack the effort that you need at the key times in the game?   Can you put your finger on it?
    TERRENCE JONES:   You know, I couldn't.   I mean, I don't know.   I'm not a guy that gives a lot of excuses or gives a lot of reasons why effort wasn't there.   I believe effort is something that you give at all times, and we just didn't last night.   Hopefully in Game 4 we go out there with that mindset that we need to win one game to give us life.   I've seen what one win in the Playoffs has done for this team, and if we do that, hopefully we'll believe and the team will go on advancing like we've been doing.

Q.   Dwight talked last night about how he didn't want to make excuses, wanted to keep this team together.   What was his message to you?   What did Dwight tell this team? 
    TERRENCE JONES:   You know, just to keep fighting.   Same thing I'm telling you guys right now, really, just to believe.   You know, it was more towards the team, and I respect big fella for expressing himself to the team and letting us know he really wants to win, and hopefully tomorrow we can go out there and give that effort.

Q.   Are you guys angry about how y'all performed last night, and if so, can you use that anger to help y'all in the next game?
    TERRENCE JONES:   I'm angry.   I mean, I'm definitely angry about losing like that at home.   I mean, I can't speak for everyone, but I know I'm angry.   I just want us to go out there and get a win.

Q.   Are you conscious of lack of effort during the game, or is that something‑‑ what's happening during the game that you see it? 
    TERRENCE JONES:   They're getting too much easy points, honestly.   I mean, put‑backs, open threes, stuff that we need to take care of, and that's us personally, that we've got to defend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT