NL DIVISION SERIES: ASTROS v BRAVES
October 5, 1999
Daryle Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Is it a bitter sweet feeling to hit the go-ahead home run and then come out for a
defense?

DARYLE WARD: For the home run, it feels good to hit it, especially off a pitcher like
Maddux who has been so tough throughout the years and as far as me coming out of the game,
I have no control over that, so there is no feeling in that. I trust my teammates to go
out there and do the job.

Q. Can you talk about the last couple of days yesterday, you were on an airport runway
not knowing which direction you were going; then you got a big win today on the road ....

DARYLE WARD: Yeah, that is kind of mind-boggling a little bit, you don't know whether
you are going to go to Arizona or to Atlanta, you know, you are watching the game and then
you are sitting in the airport wondering what the final of the game is going to be. But
8:30 came, I think I fell asleep so I just forgot all about it.

Q. Was there a lot of talk during the season about getting back at the Braves bench
factor for defeating you in three games last year?

DARYLE WARD: No, wasn't no talk about that. Only thing you could talk about is the goal
that you have in your head of what you want to do. That is what we did. We want to go out
and win ball games and tonight was a battle and we got some runs late in the game, but we
just want to go out there and play hard and stay relaxed, see what we can do.

Q. Describe the pitch from Maddux.

DARYLE WARD: I really don't know what the pitch was because he has been throwing so
well the whole game and just it was a pitch that was up - it might have been a sinker, or
changeup, I really don't know. But I just wanted to put some wood on it and get a base hit
and it got back spin and it went out of the ballpark. I was pretty excited about that.

Q. Because they have not done well in the Division Series is there a burden on you to
try and pick up the offense?

DARYLE WARD: No there is no burden on me. I don't think too many people are expecting
me to do too much. I just want to go out and play like a little kid just like when you
watch the Little League World Series earlier, you know, that is how you want to play the
game just have as much fun as possible and, you know, I am pretty sure that they are doing
the same thing and they are not worried about what they did in the last couple of years.

Q. Can you talk about your season? You were up and down a couple of times.

DARYLE WARD: I have had a great year. I have played well in Triple A and for the most
part, I was fortunate enough to be able to come up here and contribute a little bit and
actually get a chance to play and I just can't ask for anything more than that.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT