NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v SHARKS
May 19, 2010
Dave Bolland
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SCHUYLER BAEHMAN: Questions for Dave Bolland.

 Q. How is the hand? 
 DAVE BOLLAND: It's fine. Nothing wrong with that. 

 Q. What have you done specifically on your line to slow Thornton's line and get in his head?
 DAVE BOLLAND: I don't know. I think we've been great defensively, back-checking to get back in our own zone; I think throwing the body with Versteeg and Ladd. Been great in throwing the body around. Doing a great job at it. 

 Q. Can you sense things getting a little bit more physical? 
 DAVE BOLLAND: Yeah. Compared to the first game, the first game, was a lot harder, more finesse. Second game was chippier. This next one could come on as chippier. See how it goes.

 Q. Jonathan talked about how some guys are relished more within the locker room than outside. You're one of those guys. Does it matter to you how you're viewed or does your play speak for itself?
 DAVE BOLLAND: I think my play speaks for itself. For me, in the dressing room, whatever, but for me, the ice. Instead of talking in the room, normally show it on the ice instead of that. 
 For me, when I'm on that ice, always doing my best. Against Thornton's line, shutting them down, that's what I'm doing. That's my job. 

 Q. Dale Hunter in his career found he could beat a lot of different ways, by being passed and scoring. How much of his play is reflected in yours?
 DAVE BOLLAND: Him being my coach four years ago was great. Him and Mark (Hunter) taught me a lot, just little things to get to the NHL. Just from watching little videos of him, he used to be the same way. 
 It's a privilege playing against the top lines. So playing against Thornton, it's good, it's fun. We have a good time with it. 

 Q. Did you have that in your game before you got to London?
 DAVE BOLLAND: No, not really. When I came to the NHL, mostly last year, started putting me in those positions, I think I moved forward with it, that's what I was meant to do, I don't know. Compared from London to now, it's a different story. 
 As a role now, this is my role for right now in the playoffs. 

 Q. Do you get energized when you know you're in somebody's head? 
 DAVE BOLLAND: I don't know if it gives me more energy. It could. When I know I'm in someone's head, that's good. I don't know what I do to get in his head, but it's fun. It's good. There is a bit of an energy that comes to me when it does happen because it's a privilege, right, to be out there guys, play against Heatley, Thornton and Marleau. Probably the top players in the NHL and in the world, it is a privilege. 

 Q. You have gotten in the heads of Sedins and Luongo. 
 DAVE BOLLAND: I don't know what it is about myself. If it's just me back-checking. I don't know what it is. 

 Q. But other guys, too? Byfuglien is a big psych-out artist. 
 DAVE BOLLAND: It's true. Buff, when he's in front of that net, I don't think anybody can move that guy. See some guys on the Sharks were trying to get in there and Buff just stood his ground, just placed his feet there. 

 Q. Is it possible you might be a little fresher after having missed so much of the season and does that make you appreciate this a little bit more? 
 DAVE BOLLAND: Yeah, it was tough having back surgery, going through everything, missing most of the season. It was a tough decision. It wasn't something that I wanted to do. 
 To do that, it was good to get that all done with and be back during the playoffs. It's the time that counts right now. This is the main part that counts. 

 Q. When did you start to feel comfortable? 
 DAVE BOLLAND: It took a while. It took a while. I've never been off, in my whole career, for three months, three and a half months. To do that and to come back, just to find out my speed, get my strength back and everything, it was tough. 
 It's something, knock on wood, I don't want to do again. But it was tough for me to come back to get back into the swing of things. 

 Q. Is there a simple formula for replicating the success you had on the road? 
 DAVE BOLLAND: Yeah, we've been great on the road. Won seven or eight straight, whatever it is. Something we got to bring back home, the play we have all season. Our home record was great. I think if we bring it back, just like we played in the regular season, we'll do well. 

 Q. When Thornton slashed you right at the end, that little fisticuffs, was there any advanced verbal warning? 
 DAVE BOLLAND: Just out of nowhere. I think he was just kind of frustrated with us back-checking, just always being around him. I don't think he likes it. Just frustration might have taken out. He didn't like it. 

 Q. That's okay with you to accept a little pain in exchange for a penalty? 
 DAVE BOLLAND: Why not if it helps the team, right? 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT