WORLD CUP OF HOCKEY MEDIA CONFERENCE
March 2, 2016
Paul Holmgren
Dean Lombardi
John Tortorella
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  THE MODERATOR: U.S. roster just announced as I'm sure everyone is aware. Our call today, the format will be fairly simple. We have our general manager Dean Lombardi, and our head coach, John Tortorella with us. Paul Holmgren, assistant general manager and Jim Johansson, director of hockey operations, also on the call if there are any questions for them.   
Without any further ado, I would like to turn it over to our general manager, Dean Lombardi for some comments on the news today. Dean?   
DEAN LOMBARDI: Just a couple things. First off, as I said in August, this has been clearly one of the highest honors that I have been granted to be general manager of my country's team.   
As far as the process, I think this is the first time that I've ever been engaged as a leader of a group like this. I didn't realize how difficult it could be. But the difficulty comes from a good problem. We have a lot of talented, character players to choose from, and it's very difficult to even think of leaving certain players off.   
Secondly, I think it's difficult because given the graft of the obligation to our country, that it is imperative that we get this right; or, more importantly, that the process that we leave no stone unturned and that we clearly do the best that we can do.   
But up to this point, we are extremely proud of the players that we have selected, and we really look forward to the next couple months to rounding out this roster from a field that's going to make it even more difficult. But like I said, in a lot of ways, that's a good problem.   
THE MODERATOR: Now like to turn it over to our head coach, John Tortorella.   
JOHN TORTORELLA: Just coming in behind Dean, it's a tremendous honor to, first of all, be selected to get involved in this process. And to this date it's been probably one of the most stimulating things I've been involved with in dealing with Dean and the whole management group with JJ, and going through this process of trying to find the right players to make it the right team.   
So an absolute honor. I'm really looking forward to continue with the process coming up and bringing it right into September and just playing in such a great tournament. So it is a total honor and really excited about the opportunity of keep growing and see what this team is, and get playing in September.   
THE MODERATOR: Talk about the tough job it is, one number, to put things in perspective in '96, '97, the year the U.S. won the first World Cup, 146 Americans played at least one game in the NHL and last year that number was at 236, and obviously our objective at USA Hockey is to have that number continue to rise.   
   
 Q. Talk about having Abdelkader on the team and Kessel off for now?   
DEAN LOMBARDI: Only have so many slots. In terms of I think what Justin has done, safe to say that every player brings something to the table. A critical part of our team is going to be the mix. I think it's just an advocator (inaudible) that this is a kid that gets better, is very difficult to play against, and is only going to get better.   
As far as, like I say, you can say, well, why did you leave Bobby Ryan off, or why did you leave Justin Faulk off. Well, you've only got so many slots right now that we were prepared to go to, so it's not just Phil Kessel.  
On the positive side, we thought Abdelkader clearly should be in the first group.   
   
 Q. For Dean, what's the process and time line for naming a captain?   
DEAN LOMBARDI: You know what, to be honest with you I'm not as concerned with letters. I think Paul Holmgren, Burkey and JJ and I, we kind of started to micromanage this back in August and impress upon players that this leadership is not going to be defined by letters, per se.  
And I think you've heard me, I think you've heard me talk about this also a couple of times. When there's a transition to a degree in leadership, it's not that you're in any way faulting any leadership in the past. But I think there needs to be a transition and understanding of that given where some of these players are in their career. That was one of the things, we have met with a number of players, again, and started this in August.   
So quite frankly, I know it's a cliché, but it's true. We don't need just two or three leaders. We're expecting a boatload of guys to fulfill that role in terms of being leaders and being accountable to each other. I'm not too concerned about the time line of that. I'm more concerned about us getting the message to each player that started back in August and actually on a number of phone calls that I had today and I know what Paul Holmgren had with a number of players. That was the theme.   
So we have to continue that. So naming captains now or giving out letters is not what it's all about. Giving them every chance we get to in fact put them in put them in their hearts and not just on a letter.   
So it's not a hurry for me. I'm more concerned about these guys understanding the obligation they have in terms of embracing this role as a leader in getting this done.  
   
 Q. Obviously for the Olympic Team, Byfuglien got a lot of discussion and he didn't make that team. With the rank smaller for the World Cup, did his physical presence put him over the top and put him on this team? I thought he remember you wanted him to have a little bigger physical presence in the World Cup?  
DEAN LOMBARDI: Yeah, I think you hit it on the nail. This is probably a really good question for Paul Holmgren because Paul did a tremendous amount of work on this in terms of bus role on the team and fitting in. I think Homer, why don't you handle that question.   
PAUL HOLMGREN: If you had a chance to watch Dustin at all this year, he's really taken his game to another level. He's clearly a better player leading up to the World Cup than he was going intothe picking of the Olympic Team back in 2014. He's clearly, clearly, and all of our guys that have been following him, about where he's at. He's trimmed down. He's made more of a commitment. He's become a better pro. Everybody that you talk to that deals with him on a daily basis says the same thing.   
This is for me a real positive addition to our team, not only because of his size and his physical attributes, but also because of the way he can play the game. And honestly, the fact that he can play defense and forward.   
   
 Q. Is there a way to describe how you hope this team will play given the first 16 that you've named? What kind of team is this going to be? What kind of style do you think they'll play?  
DEAN LOMBARDI: When we met in John and decided we were going down that route, we talked about that to a degree, but I think, you know, John is a smart guy in terms of John has an M.O. but he's also smart enough to adjust to his personnel.   
But that that being said, this all ties in with the idea that‑‑ the style has to reflect what's most important; that players accept their identity, play their role and have that competitive edge that comes from playing with your country.   
We get that in place, John can play a one‑four, two‑two, two‑two on I don't know whatever you want to call it. But we have to focus on those intangibles and then let John do what he does best.   
And I have idea what John is thinking, but I don't think Alexander the Great gave away his plans when he was at Gaugamela, so we are not going to do that right now (laughter).   
   
 Q. If you can talk about the philosophy of naming all three goalies in the first go‑around, for what your team and what you needed to accomplish, what was the thought process behind putting all three goalies out there in the first round.   
DEAN LOMBARDI: Probably in all honesty, it goes back to, I guess I said in my opening statement, we felt pretty secure on who our three goalies were. This just gave us‑‑ we think it's excellent, make no mistake.   
But there wasn't as much gray as to who those positions were going to be filled by. I think this allowed to us take the time necessary to ensure we get the mix right by having that other slot open.   
I really feel, and we talked about this: I think we are going to have to do more work leading up to this next group than we ever did up to this point.   
And the other thing, too, is I think we are going to have more of an opportunity to really dissect this in terms of the timing, other people's responsibilities and where the players are.   
So it's basically a way of being secure on who those three players were in making sure we, like I said, look under every nook and cranny and try and get this right.   
   
 Q. From a USA Hockey perspective, how have you seen Zach Parise and Ryan Suter's role, and what do you expect from them come September?   
DEAN LOMBARDI: Well, seeing how this is Minnesota and they are Minnesota boys and Homer is here, Homer, why don't you get that one.   
PAUL HOLMGREN: You know, Zach and Ryan have evolved with the national team, the Olympic teams, over the course of their careers, and they have always brought the competitiveness to the game and their skill level to the name.   
Now they have evolved. They are sort of elder statesmen if you will in our program, the USA Hockey program. You know what, you don't get many opportunities, and this is an opportunity to win the World Cup of hockey.   
You know, given their age, not that they are old, but it doesn't last forever, and this is a great opportunity for both Ryan and Zach to step up to the plate and lead their country to a Gold Medal here.   
   
 Q. You were there in Vancouver when it was close. Do you see the need‑‑ and I think need is the key word here, for this generation of U.S. player to have a signature win, the way the last generation did in '96, the way the generation did before that. Does this generation need that signature win?   
JOHN TORTORELLA: Well, that's all you think about. That's all I have thought about in the interview process with Homer and Dean and Burkey with this opportunity. That's what you're thinking about is to be the best. And I'm not sure if it's a need, or the word you used, signature; I think that's the way you have to think all the time in this type of situation.   
This is going to be the best players in the world, and we have 16 of them now named to the U.S. team. That's their thought right now; that they are going to be part of it. The only thing you are thinking about is how you get it done.   
And that's the mind‑set that I'm sure when this season is over and we have our team picked completely, that's going to be the mind‑set that we work on as we build towards September.   
That's the only way you can think about it is winning.   
   
 Q. Dean, you mentioned Alexander the Great, he knew his enemy. The debate with USA Hockey over the years is do we build a team to beat Canada, or do we build a team that has the balance to be competitive and beat all the teams in the tournament. I know it sounds dumb, but I know that's been the case. What's your thought on that?   
DEAN LOMBARDI: It's not dumb. I mean, it's almost like the logic of it defines itself. Let's get real here. Canada's always been the mark. History speaks for itself.   
You look at the National Hockey League, and you know, so much is defined by Canada. So I think it's safe to say that they are clearly favorites, and they always are, as they should be. So if we are in it to win this thing, it's not illogical to say, you'd better be prepared to beat them.   
So I don't know if your question is, well, do you balance it out to beat the European team or whatever, but I think it's like anything else. They are clearly the best, and so you'd better be prepared to beat them. No, I don't think you're wrong at all. It's not illogical.   
   
 Q. Max Pacioretty is already one of the forwards named today on the team. He has been part of Montréal Canadiens team that might be a bit disappointed this year given the expectations of them. How much did you have to look past that not‑too‑good collective season from Montréal, and that Max Pacioretty might not be producing to the level that some people were expecting?   
DEAN LOMBARDI: Whenever you ‑‑ and this is why I hired these people. Homer, certainly, I have answer for that, but the guy who did most of the micro on Max was Homer, so why don't you handle that one, Homer.   
PAUL HOLMGREN: Max, his season‑‑ a little bit disappointed with their season, too, but probably more disappointed in his team right now than his individual stats. Montréal, they started off so good and then the goalie goes down and then they have a hard time lately and they have fallen in the standings.  
Max is a guy who we continue to watch. He's one of the better left wingers in our game. He brings size, he brings speed, he brings skill and he can score. A lot of times you don't just put it on the current season. You go by the body of work, and Max has been a good player for USA Hockey in past events, and we know he will be again this year for us in the World Cup.   
   
 Q. How big of an influence or influence at all do you think it would have been if you could have had some of the North American guys available, a guy like Johnny Gaudreau, having a fantastic year, I assume he probably would have been in the mix for a full national team spot. And then John, maybe if I can get a comment from you, too, because you've got three of the guys in Columbus that are on that Young Stars team in Seth Jones and Bryan Murray and Brandon Saad.   
DEAN LOMBARDI: Well, I mean, no sense really thinking about it because it's beyond your control. Really, once you get the rules, what good does it do to fret about it. It is what it is.   
That said, you know, like I said, going forward here, we have got some tough choices to make. So we have our hands full with the talent we have and I think on the other side of the coin, you look at that group, and that looks like it could end up being a pretty imposing generation.   
So it's actually good in the sense because it highlights I think a segment or a generational facet that's coming forward that looks pretty potent. I think to put in the other context, I'd like to be GM of this team in four years when those kids come through, so how about that.   
JOHN TORTORELLA: Yeah, I mean, you just look at the National Hockey League, just the young kids that have come into this league and how exciting it is for the future. But as Dean said, you can't even go there. There's no sense of trying to whet your appetite with that because it's a rule.   
There's been a lot of good players that Homer, Burkey, Dean and the whole staff there that still have to look at to fill out our team. The young group there, I think that's going to be a dangerous team, and then moving forward, what are they in another four years. It's scary. But that's good for hockey in general.   
But right now, we are focused on our group and our age group and what's going to be here and getting ourselves ready to play in September.   
THE MODERATOR: With that, like to give a big thanks to our management group and head coach for joining us today     
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT