NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: LOUISVILLE
March 16, 2018
Shauna Green
Jayla Scaife
Lauren Cannatelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Marquette - 84, Dayton - 65
THE MODERATOR: We'll begin with an opening statement from Coach Green.
SHAUNA GREEN: First off, I think Marquette, give them credit, they played well.  Their pace got to us a little bit.  I thought we came out great.  Our start was exactly what we wanted to do.  We executed really perfectly in terms of our press break, our half-court offense.  We were controlling the tempo.  When Jenna got that second foul, it was big.  I thought we took the momentum change when that happened, and they went on that run.
And then I thought we really came out the second half, and we beat them the third -- or lost by one the third quarter.  I thought we played well during that.  But we just didn't make plays when we had to and turned the ball over way, way too many times against a team like this.
Q. For either of the players, how difficult was their pressure?  Were you surprised by how tough it was to get the ball up the court?
LAUREN CANNATELLI: I don't think we were too surprised.  I think Coach Green and the coaches did a good job of preparing us, practicing on our press break and being mentally prepared for the pressure they were going to bring.  I don't think we executed very well most of our press breaks.  So I think that was a major contributing factor.
JAYLA SCAIFE: Basically what Lauren said.  We prepared pretty well for their pressure.  We knew they were going to do that.  When Jenna went out, just kind of took us out of it a little bit with us being comfortable with her bringing the ball up.  That was really good.
Q. How tough was their leading scorer Hiedeman?  She came out on fire and even finished strong.  What did you guys try to do to try to defend her?
JAYLA SCAIFE: We were just trying to contest all her shots, not let her get any open shots.  Just stay in front of her was our biggest thing with her.  Just not letting her get any open shots was basically our game plan for her.
LAUREN CANNATELLI: I think a player like her, she's going to get her points.  We just had to make sure we boxed out and got the rebound.  They got a lot of offensive rebounds.  I think that's something we could have done better.  We probably could have done better just playing more of a team defense and getting in our gaps and higher up in the gaps and help side, and our rotations were a little slow as well.
Q. I know it's tough to look ahead right now, but you're both coming back next season.  What do you gain from experiences this season, and how are your hopes for next year?
LAUREN CANNATELLI: I think we have really high expectations for next year.  Obviously, I want to get back here.  I want to win a game.  I want to make a run in the NCAA Tournament.  It's always a goal of ours.  So we're going to get back to it and hit it hard this summer and just get back to work.
JAYLA SCAIFE: Coach Green always talks about one day at a time, one step at a time.  So I feel like our first goal is really just to get through the A-10.  That's always just our focus.  And in the long run, to get back here and make our run.  But we have a lot of pieces.  The seniors left a great legacy for us to just follow in and just continue to go up in.
Q. This is for the players.  Just talk about you got off to that great start, and then Hiedeman ended up with 32.  She really got them going.  Kind of talk about that.  I know I've seen players do that before, but she really got hot, and you basically couldn't stop her.
LAUREN CANNATELLI: I think we started the game off with a pretty good run, and then when Jenna got her two fouls, we just kind of went into a lull, and I had a couple of turnovers.  I think that's just how the flow of the game goes.  Each team is going to make runs, and we just didn't really have an answer for it.
I think we came back in the third quarter and did better in that respect, but we just didn't really have a response.
JAYLA SCAIFE: It's like just she's a really good player.  With players like that, you can't let them get hot because every shot they're going to put up is more than likely going to go in.  They definitely got the momentum the second quarter when Jenna went out, and she just kind of went off.  Honestly, all we can do is just learn from it and not let that happen again and just continue to grow.
Q. It seems like when you guys needed a spark, it was JaVonna who was really providing it.  Can you talk about her leadership, especially playing in her hometown?
JAYLA SCAIFE: Jay does a lot for the team on and off the court.  She's a great energy player, not just with the rebounds, but telling people just to keep their heads up, just encouraging us always.  Definitely, when she brings that energy, it definitely carries over into the team.  I know that, when I first got here last year, she was the one that kind of took me under her wing.  So I really appreciate everything she's done.
LAUREN CANNATELLI: Yeah, I agree.  Whenever she gets a big rebound, like offensive rebound, it's always a big spark for us.  So I think her contributing that way was really big for us today.
Q. What was most impressive about what they did?  You kind of battled back in the third quarter and would get it down a little bit, and then they'd come right back.
LAUREN CANNATELLI: I think they just had like a lot of different scores.  Number 5, obviously, 32 points.  11, 12.  I think we just didn't really do a good job of our rotations, as I mentioned earlier, as well as just offensively just staying poised and limiting turnovers.  We were prepared for their pressure, but we just didn't execute very well today.
JAYLA SCAIFE: Yeah, basically what Lauren said.  Just our rotations kind of really, it took a lot out of us.  I feel like our initial keeping the ball in front was good, and then after a while, we just kind of got lax in the defensive possession.  Just something we definitely have to work on and get better from.
Q. Kind of the same thing that I asked the players about.  Once she got hot, they were only 7 for 21, I believe, in the first quarter or the first half -- excuse me.  In the first quarter.  Just talk about what she got going.  Did you try to change defenses?  Did you do anything to limit her?  Or just her play was so good today?  Just talk about that.
SHAUNA GREEN: We ran every defense that we possibly could run today.  We haven't been -- we haven't zoned.  We zoned.  We haven't pressed.  We pressed.  We tried -- everything that we have in our arsenal, we threw out there.  That's why a team like Marquette, that's why they're so dangerous because they're so -- every single -- all five of their starters could go off like that.  They're all capable of putting up 20-some points.  They do it in multiple ways.
You worry about Blockton, and then you have Hiedeman coming out, and you worry about one and then the next one.  I give them credit because teams have been daring them to shoot threes, and then you have Hiedeman that comes out and is 8 for 12.
And we weren't going to dare them, we respect them.  Our game plan was to have a hot hand.  I mean, we were switching a lot of stuff.  So there's really no excuse that she should have got eight threes that are open.  We didn't execute our game plan.  We didn't execute coming out and switching aggressively and getting hot hands.
And no matter what game plan you have or what scout, when a player starts hitting two or three threes, that's just -- you've got to do something, and you've got to get up in them.  Give them credit.  They made plays, and every time we made a run, they came back, and they got a stop, or they made a play.
Q. Always tough saying good-bye to the seniors, and a couple of these players were on the great team in 2015.  Did you have any final words after the game for them in the locker room?  What can you say to wrap up their careers?
SHAUNA GREEN: I mean, there's nothing you could say right now that's going to make them feel better.  I mean, they wanted to win.  I told them -- I thanked them, obviously.  They've given so much.  And I think you could see it out there.  They just, they wore down.  I mean, they wore down.  Jenna, what she's done -- I mean, she played another 40 minutes.  I think you said it.  She's played -- her and Lauren played like the last how many games, 40 minutes.
At the end of the day, you look at them.  I told her, I ask so much of you.  Just wore down.  Her shots didn't shore.  They've been huge for this program.  They've set the tone of how you go about your business, how you work.  I wanted this game so much for them to go out and get another win here, but we just didn't have it.  We didn't have it.
The last couple games, like I said, I don't know if it's fatigue or what, we just didn't have that spark to us that you saw for 17 games.  Maybe it is just they're tired, you know.  So they're upset, obviously.  They're hurt.  But they need to be proud, and they need to walk out of here, and I told them, with their head high in what they've done for Dayton basketball.  The mark they've made has just been huge.
Q. You mentioned them playing that many minutes.  Are you looking forward to having a deeper bench next year?  We know you had injuries and players sitting out this year.
SHAUNA GREEN: And you saw our limit of our players today hurt us.  We got in foul trouble, and there's -- you know, Jenna goes out, and I put her back in, but I -- we don't have Lauren.  I mean, I give her so much credit.  She's not a point guard, and she's played point guard for Jenna the last two years as her backup.  Our injuries, they obviously presented some problems that you don't have a backup point guard.  I couldn't even get Jenna a minute here or there the last couple weeks in games just because of that.
So I thought you saw today, when you get in foul trouble -- I mean, three of our players were in foul trouble and couldn't play really the first half.  And then I put Jenna back in.  I think you saw that our depth today was just it came in to be a major, major factor.
So, yes, to answer your question, I'm excited about next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT