NHL ENTRY DRAFT
July 8, 1995
Dmitri Nabokov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
I have to talk fast.  I just wanted to be drafted and I wanted to get chosen and I will think about it. 
 
That great, you know, they have a great team.  They have a great coach.  They have great people there.  So I'm really happy to go to New Jersey. 
 
Oh I don't know maybe it was my shoulder but you know it is very hard to draft someone -- some player with shoulder.  And you don't know if he can play next year.  So I'm really happy to be drafted by New Jersey. 
 
No.  When they said I just stand up and I say yeah, that's me.  
 
Yeah I think it's a good experience before to try to make NHL for one year to play pro hockey my experience was really good.  I really liked it there.  Too bad I couldn't play the last four months but I think I showed what I can do. 
 
Now my shoulder is really good it's like my left one.  I have no problem with my shoulder now. 
 
Yeah, I did some special physical with the New Jersey Devils, but I didn't think about whether I was going to New Jersey. 
 
Yeah, I think it's going to be really hard to make team in New Jersey but I think if I will work hard like I am now, I think I have a chance to make the team and if I'm not making the team, I go to farm team and I will keep working hard and try to make New Jersey Devils team. 
 
Yeah like if don't make NHL team, I go to farm team. 
 
Yeah, I know that it is easy but I don't if BOBBY HALICK. 
 
Yeah.  Good some player for Chez is there because he can help me now I don't know him but I think he is good.  We'll be just good friends.  
 
No I never played for HOLLIE staff. 
 
He is my really good friend.  So I'm glad I can stay in his house.  And I stayed there the last three or four months.  I really like it there. 
 
Yeah, he's going to Chez with -- probably it's just for one month.  I guess and I think it is a good experience for him to try a different style than an American style.  I think he's coming back and he'll play next year for Madison High again. 
 
It was pretty  big job from Chez to NHL and I had to learn a lot.  So I had time to play with guys stronger and tougher so and I think I didn't play like the third guy back.  So I had to learn in Detroit how to play defense.  So I think now I can play defense good. 
 
I don't know, no. 
 
Yeah, I live in New Jersey. 
 
He really teach me how to play defense because if I want to play for RAY DODLEY. I have to play defense.  So I had to learn how to play defense. 
 
No I go like top 15 top 20.  So it's not a surprise to go 18. 
 
Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT