UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 22, 2007
James Aldridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q.  James, the mixed emotions of playing well individually, but still a fourth loss to start the season, how do you feel about the game, can you talk about that?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  Well, it's always good to have a good game but it's not good enough.  We have to get back and practice tomorrow, keep trying to see what we can do.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel better about yourselves than walking off the field in Ann Arbor?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  We tried to work on the running game and the play of the line and we are kind of getting some things together now and things came together -- I mean, we've got some things to work on.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about getting in a rhythm, being over 100 yards, had to feel good to get the carries and then get the yards?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  Yeah, it felt good, but it's not good enough.  We've got to do more.  So we're going to go back to practice tomorrow and hopefully get better, plugging away.   
  
  Q.  You guys have had so many hits against you; it has to be nice to have positive yardage.   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  Yeah, the offensive line has been working at it, and it's always good to have some positive yardage.  All credit goes to the offensive line this time.   
  
  Q.  What was it like being a running back this week with all of the extra tackling and physicality in practice?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  That's what we lift weights for, so we can do it ourselves, for that type of punishment we get, and we don't want to sustain any injuries really.   
 I'm feeling all right, and I'm guessing all the other running backs feel good.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone).   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  I guess feeling after a loss -- we did some good things with you we feel we didn't come out with a W.  We have some more things to work on.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone).   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  We're taking small steps, we're taking steps in a better direction.  Hopefully we can take more steps and things will come together.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone).   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  That's what we're here for, I go to school to play football, plain and simple.  Whatever Coach says, goes.  That's all you've got to do.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel like you were finally able to get a rhythm today, and how important is that to you to get some carries back-to-back?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  Well, like I always say, Coach calls on my number, that's when I go in.  And I got my numbered called today and I did my best to take advantage of it.   
  
  Q.  Did you know going into the week that you were going to be more or less the guy?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  From the reps in practice -- (inaudible) -- I tried my best to respond to the situation.   
  
  Q.  Coach said he wanted five or ten more carries -- but it didn't work out.  You both kind of bring that strong -- (inaudible) to the offense to counteract -- how do you feel about that?  Could you have carried the ball ten more times?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  If he called my ten more times -- whatever Coach said, goes.   
  
  Q.  Did you feel strong there to the end?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  Yeah, I feel fine, yeah.   
  
  Q.  Is there a weight off your back being able to finally run the ball, and as a team you were able to the first three games?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  No, I mean, it's always room for improvement and it's not good enough where we can go get a victory.   
  
  Q.  Is there a silver lining?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  A couple.  We lost, so we have to keep working.  No matter how many people, how many yards, this, that, we lost.  So we've got to keep working.   
  
  Q.  Are you starting to think about next week, and that you've got to something to build on here?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  Yeah, we've got Purdue.  We're going to practice to beat Purdue.  Short-term memory, that's what we're going to work on.   
  
  Q.  You and Robert, can you talk about that?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  I think it naturally picked up.  He kind of had him by himself and I think Jeff's probably -- I'm guessing.  You know we're just going to work on things that we developed naturally.   
  
  Q.  On that 43-yard run, did you get caught by the lineback?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  I don't know.  I did, too.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk about that run?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  The hole opened up where I tried to kick it outside.   
 We ended up getting it off to the end, so that's always a about thing.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel right now personally?   
 JAMES ALDRIDGE:  I'm down.  I mean, you know, can't really worry about the 0-4 start because it's week-by-week.  People are going to look at the record but we are working each day to get better.  So, I mean, just really got to have a short-term memory and keep working.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT