CITI OPEN
August 1, 2019
Caty McNally
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
C. McNALLY/C. McHale   
6-3, 1-6, 6-3   
 Q.  Caty, considering that you were dealing with congestion today and just how you were fighting, and I guess Christina being the tough veteran that she is and all of those conditions that you dealt with, do you feel like this is now your best win to date considering all the great wins that you've had, that you not only had to face a tough opponent but your own body, as well?  
CATY McNALLY: Yeah, today was definitely really tough.  That's one thing I really admire that Christina does is she's just very feisty, she never gives up, and she competes really well.  Yeah, I wasn't feeling 100 percent, so I'm super happy that I was able to fight, push through, and just mentally get over that hump and not think about my body and just play my game.   
 Q.  What were you feeling physically, and when did you start feeling it?  
CATY McNALLY: I just had some chest congestion, wasn't feeling very well, just kind of felt like -- I don't know, like I drank too much maybe.  But I got some stuff from the trainer that helped me, and I think I started to feel better towards like the third set.  I was just taking more time, like working on my breathing routines, and that helped me.   
 Q.  How challenging has it been for you this week where you're making your way through the singles draw, you're still alive in doubles with Coco; do you think this is a good prep for you as you develop as a professional player?  
CATY McNALLY: Yeah, definitely.  I haven't gone to bed -- the past few nights I got to bed at like 1:00 a.m. because of doubles.   
So for me I think it just is a reality of what the tour is like.  It's not going to be easy, but whoever can handle all these situations and take all the positives and just bring the right energy, I think that's who's going to succeed.   
 Q.  Speaking of doubles, you and Coco have obviously played a lot together, but how do you guys push each other not just when you're playing on court here, but in the kind of years that you've known her, is there healthy competition?  Are you kind of doing any of that stuff?  
CATY McNALLY: I think -- well, Coco and I have only played one other tournament besides here, and that was Junior US Open, and we won it, yeah.  But we get along really well on and off the court, and I think our games mesh together, and that's why we play so well.  And just all the success that all the Americans are having, I think that just drives every single person and shows them that they can do the same thing.   
 Q.  You touched on it a tiny bit there at the end of the last question, but how closely did you watch Coco at Wimbledon?  Did that kind of light a fire in you that you can do it on the WTA level, as well?  
CATY McNALLY: Yeah, I watched all of her matches.  I was super proud of her, and I thought she did a great job handling the moment, all the pressure that was on her playing on the big stage.  But yeah, I think it just shows me because I've played really close with her and I've had chances to win that I'm right there, too, and I can do the same thing.   
 Q.  You play Su-Wei Hsieh next possibly if she wins today.  She's one of the most sort of unique players on tour.  I don't know what you've seen of her or what that challenge will be like because she's definitely a different sort of obstacles than most players you're going to face on tour.  
CATY McNALLY: Yeah, I watch her a lot.  I love the way she plays.  I think it's just so fun and unique, and I think it's just a great opportunity.  Yeah, I hope I can play her, yeah.   
 Q.  Speaking of fun styles, your fun all-court style really helped you today against someone like Christina who can be such a wall and such a backboard.  You were volleying today against a tough passer.  How do you feel and assess your whole craft at the front of the court today?  
CATY McNALLY: Yeah, I think I did a really good job.  I got a stat from one of my friends that I think I came in maybe like 31 times, and I won 24 of the points.  So yeah, she's definitely really good from the back, and I think just like that percentage shows, that's how I won a lot of my points, and that's how I try to play my game.   
 Q.  Just had a factual question here; do you train in Orlando, as well, with Hailey and Coco or no?  
CATY McNALLY: No, I don't.  I train in Cincinnati, Ohio.   
 Q.  The two of them train together at the USTA, right?  
CATY McNALLY: No, Coco trains out of Miami, where she lives, and Hailey is in Orlando.   
 Q.  You touched on it a little bit before, but now you're getting a real sense of what it's like to be on tour full-time and having that stress on your body.  What have you been learning so far, and what has been the toughest adjustment coming to the professional tour at such a young age?  
CATY McNALLY: Yeah, I think it's really important, and I have amazing people in my corner that have been supporting me and guiding me.  But I think most importantly, you just have to listen to yourself, listen to your body, how you feel, and just enjoy it.  I mean, it's not easy.  I'm competing against older people, but you can't worry about that.  You just have to go out there.  Everything is the same.  You can't worry about the opponent, and you just have to enjoy it.   
 Q.  I think I saw today you were afforded a wild card into Cincinnati; is that right?  Have you gotten one there before, played there before?  
CATY McNALLY: Yeah, I just -- that actually came public today, but yeah, I got the main draw wild card in Cincinnati, so I'm super excited.  I played qualifying there -- no, sorry, doubles there two years ago, maybe three years ago with Alexa Glatch, who's trying to make it back on the main tour.  But that was an amazing experience, and I'm super happy to go back.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT