NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WOLRD SERIES
June 3, 2017
Sahvanna Jaquish
Bailey Landry
Constance Quinn
Beth Torina
Allie Walljasper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Oregon - 4, LSU - 1
BETH TORINA: Well, just a big thank you to Oklahoma City.  It's an honor to be here.  It's a huge honor to have been here for the past three years in a row, and just everything that this city pours into this event and the NCAA and all the people that make it happen, just a huge honor to be a part of it.
I think the biggest message I have today is just a thank-you to my seniors, three of the four sitting here today.  Layna Savoie isn't here but she's a huge part of this, too.  But these guys have just raised the bar.  They have set the bar.  They have made the expectations for this program very difficult for me as a coach moving forward.  We have a lot to live up to.  The records they've set, the things they've done, and it's more than just about softball, it's about the people that they are.  We just have a huge appreciation for these guys and what they've done for LSU softball, and we'll just work hard to live up to these expectations they've set for us and try to keep moving forward and finishing even better next season.
Q. Beth, was it a little bit like last night when you couldn't string anything together early, had chances?
BETH TORINA: Yeah, we did.  We had runners on base.  We had some at-bats we'd like to have over.  We had some moments where we weren't very productive with our at-bats.  I think every out needs to be a productive out, and we didn't do a very good job of putting our runners in scoring position, moving them up, and having productive at-bats with runners on base.
Q. Allie, how is your hand?
ALLIE WALLJASPER: It's okay.
Q. And did you have Carley warming up before the game or did she come in cold?
BETH TORINA: Oh, she was warm.  If she wasn't, she could have taken as many pitches as she wanted due to injury, so she was warm.
Q. Is there any way to find out about Carley's knee now?
BETH TORINA: I don't know what there is to talk about.  You saw her pitch pretty successfully here.  I don't know what else there is to talk about with her.
Q. You got the home run from (Shemiah) Sanchez early, big shot, cut the lead in half; what did you think right then that you had a very good chance of getting back in it?
BETH TORINA: Yeah, that was a proud moment.  I think that was a huge moment for us, and she's worked so hard for that, and it's so cool to see that kid succeed because she's just an example for all of us about what work and grit and effort is.  She's a huge example for all of us, so it was great to see that, and felt like we were within striking distance, just kept letting things slip away, had some sloppy defensive moments, had some pitches we'd like to get back, some at-bats we'd like to get back.  You know, just let things slip away from us until we created a gap that was a little bigger than what we'd like it to be there at the end.
Q. Constance and Savannah, if you will talk about what you will take from this season.
CONSTANCE QUINN: I mean, I'm proud of this team.  I'm proud to be an LSU Tiger.  I don't care that we came up short.  We did something that hasn't been done here before in LSU history, and that's to make it back here three times in a row.  We didn't get the gold, but in my heart I felt like we did what we needed to do to prove that LSU is a name that will be remembered forever and will gain the respect that it deserves.
SAHVANNA JAQUISH: I don't know how to follow up with that.  That was pretty good.  I feel like even if I won or we won the national championship, I'd still be up here crying because I can't wear this jersey anymore, and I think that means a lot to me.  These colors mean a lot to me, the city of Baton Rouge, and my teammates, and that's it.
Q. Bailey, talk about the single-season hits record, what that means.
BAILEY LANDRY: I mean, setting the record didn't really cross my mind.  I was just worried about being out there with an LSU jersey on.  It's just fun.  Every day is fun, and it's going to be the biggest thing that I miss is just being able to represent LSU every day.  But it's been a heck of a ride, and I got to do it with some pretty tremendous people.  There's a lot to be said about there's so much more to be proud of, to be happy with.  You know, it's a part of life.  But it's one that I'll never forget.  It's one that shaped me to adulthood, I guess, now.  I guess I'll find out what that's like.  But yeah, I wouldn't trade it for the world.
Q. This week we've seen a lot of plays at home, and I know you guys were involved in some early on, but what are your thoughts going forward if maybe replay should be involved on plays at the plate at this stage?
BETH TORINA: I mean, I think that's definitely something we need to investigate.  I know they're using it in baseball and I think having some success.  I worry a little bit about what it does with the length of the game when we've made all these new rules, sacrifices and things to try to keep our game at the right length.  That would be my only concern.  But I don't see the harm in it.
Q. Coach, if you could just put into perspective what this team has done.  I know this is three teams in a row that's been to the World Series, but do you pick up something with each trip, do you learn, and what will you remember this specific LSU team for?
BETH TORINA: Yeah, I think I'm growing as a coach all the time.  I think I still have some years left and I'm growing as a coach and learning all the time, and I think every time we come here we try to get a little better.  It's a tough tournament, it really is a tough tournament.  We try to get a little better.  I don't know if we're close or if we're far to winning a national championship because I've never won one, but hopefully we're chipping away at it, and I think these guys will tell you we talk all the time that it's not necessarily -- we want to win the national championship, don't get me wrong.  That's the program's goal.  That's something that I will die trying to accomplish, but our main focus is the journey and who these young women become.  You know, and living every day at the end of it, they're not going to remember who got hit or what the score was or any of that stuff.  They're going to remember how they felt about each other and how they acted as a team.  I think that's what these guys did such a great job of is reminding us that every day we're growing as people, we're growing as teammates and friends, and I think it's really about what we learned on the journey and not just about this one moment.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT