MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 15, 2020
Bernard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BERNHARD LANGER: I felt right in the middle of it, in the thick of it. I got to experience the longest guys in the world right now, and it's quite amazing. Different game.   
   
 Q. Is it hard to just go out and keep playing your game, or do you just disregard what they do and just‑‑   
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, you know, normally I play my own game. I don't even worry about who I'm with and all that, but I was a little bit spectating here and there. I was in awe and just watching how they swing and how hard they hit it, and every once in a while I had to tell myself, go on, stop watching and play your game and focus on what you want to do. But it is fun to watch and fascinating how they do it.   
   
 Q. If you keep hitting your woods and wedges like you did this week, do you think you have a few more weekends at the Masters?   
BERNHARD LANGER: I think I might have another, yeah, few more in there. You never know. I know how to play this golf course and just have to play my angles and rely on my short game. With me it's really all the putter. If I can make a few putts, I know I can shoot somewhere around par or even under, and that's usually good enough to hang in there. If my putter goes bad, then I'm struggling because I'm not going to hit the ball very close.   
Today I probably hit‑‑ I don't know, I'd have to count, but I think six hybrids and two 3‑woods into par‑4s. That's just not a lot of fun, but it is what it is.   
   
 Q. And that's before this wind picked up.   
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, I don't know, sometimes it's downwind, sometimes it's into the wind, so it evens out.   
   
 Q. I understand on 3 Bryson drove the green, you laid up and you beat him on the hole?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, I was fortunate to hit three really good shots, made a great putt, and he drove the green, but it wasn't easy. It was on the front right and the pin was front left. Usually that putt is lightning fast. I thought he hit a good putt, but it was 15, 18 feet short, so it was strange. Anyway, so he three‑putted, yeah.   
   
 Q. The fact that you only have five months before the next Masters, that's a new thing‑‑   
BERNHARD LANGER: It's a new thing, yeah. That's for sure. But it's good news. We look forward to it. It was a long‑‑ we had to wait for this one a long time, and yeah, I'm excited to come back here in April, and hopefully we'll find a little firmer conditions. That would be fun.   
   
 Q. What did you think about playing with an amateur?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, John is a very nice guy, has a lot of game. I think he has a bright future if he keeps his head on his shoulders and works at it. He's got a very good technique and plenty of length. Yeah, he was unlucky to make a double bogey here and a double bogey there on the 1st and 18th, I think, but otherwise in between he played very solid. I think he will find his place on the Tour in the near future. Said he'll turn pro tomorrow or something like that, so he should be doing well.   
   
 Q. How satisfying was this weekend and this week in general for you? Did you get out of it what you wanted this weekend?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Yes, definitely, because this place has never played as long as it had this year. I've never seen it as wet. I mean, even today I hit a 3‑wood on the 2nd hole, downwind. Went about this high, and it plugged. It actually come back. I saw my pitch mark, it had mud on it, and that usually doesn't happen to that extent. But they're working on it.   
Yeah, as I said, hopefully‑‑ I like the challenge of it being firm and fast. I think it's a harder course when it plays that way. It may play shorter, but I think it's harder. We'll see what next spring brings.   
   
 Q. This week, the time of the year, how would you summarize this experience compared to every other Masters?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it was a very unusual experience not having any patrons here or very few, and you didn't hear any big roars. I might have gotten one of the bigger roars yesterday when I made that 63‑foot putt. There were about 12 people watching, so I got something out of them. It's sad to see, but this is what we've been doing all year. Just got to be careful about COVID and make the best of it. Hopefully by April things will look a little different, but it is what it is, and we're just glad that we could be here.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT