MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 13, 2020
Bernard Langer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BERNHARD LANGER: I got off to a great start. I think 4‑under was one of my better rounds in the last 10 years or so around here, especially as long as it plays. I made a lot of hybrids and 3‑woods into these par‑4s. They're not designed for that, but I managed to get around. My putter worked pretty good, and short game was in general good the first round, and then second round could have been slightly better. Drove the ball well and putted fairly well, and that kept me in there even though I'm hitting very long clubs.   
   
 Q. How is the first cut playing compared to years past?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, it's about twice as long as it normally is, so you want to stay out of that, that's for sure, especially with the clubs I'm hitting. If you're hitting a wedge out of there it's not an issue, but you don't want to go in there with a 4‑iron or something like that.   
   
 Q. How much moisture is there and how is that affecting how the ball comes outs?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, it's not just the moisture. I played a practice round on Monday and I noticed it was long then, and they haven't cut it since, so it's grown every day with this heat and this moisture in the air and all the rain we had. Yeah, it's a lot more punishing than normal.   
But there's plenty of fairway out there, you've just got to hit it straight.   
   
 Q. Did you feel like in what ways did the conditions of the course change over the eight hours you were out there today?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Not much at all. I think still, the grounds are soft from all the rain, so I didn't see a noticeable difference, maybe slight drying out. Might have had few mud balls off the tee and maybe a little bit of run here and there off the tee ball, but in general, it hasn't changed dramatically; let's put it that way.   
   
 Q. It looks like you play pretty well here every year. Does this course make you feel younger?   
BERNHARD LANGER: No, it actually makes me feel older when I play with these young guys and I see how far they hit it and how short I hit it. It makes me feel older, not younger.   
I like this golf course. I think I know how to get around it, even though I hit very long clubs. But it's certainly not easy. It's a lot hitter's place. Always has been. I mean, why has Jack won six times and Tiger five times? Because they were the longest players in their era. That's what this place has always catered to; let's put it that way.   
   
 Q. For anyone who's curious about how you're able to do this at your age, how would you describe your fitness and stretching routine that you're able to maintain?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, my knees are shot right now. My wife just said, you're not going to hit balls, are you? I said, no, no chance. I'm done. I played 27 today or 26, and this is one of the hilliest courses we play, and when it's wet, it's even a harder walk.   
Yeah, I do stretching and I do workouts, but again, it's a young man's course in many ways. It's a hard walk around here on any day because you're not just walking down and up, there's a lot of side hill, as well, which a lot of people have shin splint problems and their feet are hurting, their knees, even their hips and their backs sometimes going out. So it's not an easy place to walk, but it's a wonderful place to walk.   
   
 Q. Were you an admirer of Gary Player or do you look at him and marvel the way we do?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Oh, yeah, I always have. Actually Gary was my golfing idol. You look at this guy, and what's he, 85 now? It's just amazing the shape he's still in. About five years ago he was still making a full shoulder turn. When he was turning he was still getting almost 90 degrees, when most guys at that age, they need a stick to walk or whatever. They can't do a whole lot. It's pretty impressive.   
It pays off. He's worked on his fitness and flexibility all his life, and I think it pays off even more as you get older than when you're younger.   
   
 Q. Can an older golfer win here? I ask because Phil said if he played better‑‑ do you think because of the knowledge?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Yeah, Phil has the knowledge and Phil has the length still definitely to compete and probably to win, so it's just a matter of can he do it four days in a row and find his best game.   
   
 Q. It's Friday the 13th; do you follow any golf superstitions or have any golf rituals out there?   
BERNHARD LANGER: My parents got married Friday the 13th. It's a wonderful day for me. I wouldn't be here otherwise. I have no superstitions whatsoever. I love the 13th, and no issues here.   
   
 Q. Your birdie on 2 to start the day, can you talk about that?   
BERNHARD LANGER: My birdie on 2? Yeah, that was a very good drive and perfect 3‑wood, dead straight, just a couple yards short of the green, and then I decided to take the putter and rolled it up there about six feet, made a good six‑footer for birdie. Basically four good shots.   
   
 Q. You're the oldest player to make the cut‑‑   
BERNHARD LANGER: How about that? I'll drink to that.   
   
 Q. What are you drinking?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Shandy.   
   
 Q. What does that achievement mean to you?   
BERNHARD LANGER: Well, it's not easy to do it. There have been so many great players here before me, including the ones we just talked about, from Jack Nicklaus to Gary Player to all the greats that have competed here, and to be the oldest to make the cut, it's certainly an achievement. Hopefully I get to play a few more years and enjoy this place.   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT