CANADIAN OPEN
September 10, 2006
Richard Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Talk about your round out there.  Obviously it seems like you struggled at times.
RICHARD SCOTT:  I did struggle.  I didn't hit it as good and putt as good as I did the first three rounds, so that's going to add up to a higher score.  Of course it's a lot harder when you're hitting out of the rough out there.  It's getting pretty tough.  It's definitely growing.  I didn't get in it too much the first three rounds I was hitting it so good off the tee, but yeah, I didn't hit it as well off the tee and I didn't make many putts, so that results in a 75.
Q.  Was it a tougher today because of the wind?
RICHARD SCOTT:  I think it was, yes.  It was playing a little tougher, but that's no excuse.  If I would have hit it the same, I still would have scored well, but just didn't hit it well enough.
Q.  What do you take out of it?  This is your first PGA TOUR event that you've played on the weekend.  Score aside, finish aside, what are you going to take home?
RICHARD SCOTT:  I think it was a great experience, just being in the whole environment out here.  It's definitely different than amateur golf for sure, and it's a lot of fun.  Playing with Aaron, Aaron is a great guy, and we had a lot of fun out there.  He's got a great short game and a great putting stroke, and I tried to keep an eye on his putting stroke today and maybe learn some things.  We had a lot of fun out there, and that was pretty cool to watch his game and see how mine compared.
Q.  You led the field in greens in regulation the first two days.  That's got to tell you you can play with these guys?
RICHARD SCOTT:  Yeah, I mean, like I said earlier this week, I was hitting it great.  I hit it good yesterday, too, and just wasn't quite there today.  Maybe caught up with me a little bit, the putting.  You kind of force some things    if you know you can't make some 20 footers, you're trying to hit them a little too close and pulling them here and there.  I was hitting it as good as I can hit it the first two rounds, or close to it, and I've always been a pretty good ball striker, so I've known that part of my game has always been good, it's just the other part I need to work on a little bit.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT