CANADIAN OPEN
September 9, 2006
Richard Scott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
RICHARD SCOTT:  Yeah, it's good, definitely.  Victor is a great player.  I'm sure he played solid today.  Yeah, it was great out there.  I just had a lot of fun.  It's good for the tournament, definitely, to have some amateurs out there, some new talent, stuff like that from Canada.  It's good to see.  Like I said, I had a lot of fun.  It was a pretty neat experience.
Q.  How was your game today?
RICHARD SCOTT:  It was solid tee to green.  Just didn't make the putts I needed to here and there.  Had a lot of good opportunities.  Just, you know, didn't roll a few in.  We had the reads right most of the time today, me and Andrew, but just couldn't get them online a few times.
Q.  How are the greens with the weather?
RICHARD SCOTT:  They're still rolling really good.  Yeah, you know, with wear and tear throughout the day, I'm sure they were better this morning than they will be this afternoon.  No, they're still rolling really good.  Still got good speed in them.

Just didn't roll it as good today as I wanted to, I guess.
Q.  Playing like a different course as opposed to yesterday?
RICHARD SCOTT:  A little bit.  It's been soft all week, though.  Got kind of a chance to firm up yesterday afternoon I'm sure with the wind.  If it hadn't have rained today, it would have been a lot firmer.

Yeah, it was a little softer, especially after that pouring down rain we had when we were at 7.  It softened it up a lot.  You're probably going to see a few low scores today I'm sure.
Q.  You didn't happen to see Victor's pants, did you?
RICHARD SCOTT:  I did.
Q.  What do you think?
RICHARD SCOTT:  Hey, I like them.  I'm supporting the OCGA, so I'm wearing adidas, which is nice clothing as well.  I can't go to those pants.  I don't know if I could pull them off.  I'm more kind of a classic kind of dresser.
Q.  He says he has something with a Christmas theme in mind tomorrow.  Do you know anything about that?
RICHARD SCOTT:  I don't know.  We'll see.  I'll be more traditional I'm sure again.
Q.  You had a good amateur career.  I know you're thinking about turning pro in the future.  When you play with these guys, do you see aspects of your game you have to work on before you turn pro?
RICHARD SCOTT:  Well, yeah.  I mean, definitely.  I need to make some more putts, for sure.  Each round this week I've hit it solid enough to shoot 3 under, 4 under.  Even today I had a chance to shoot even lower than that probably.  Just not making 'em.

Yeah, if I had a really good putting week this week, combined it with this good ball striking, I'd be right up there probably.

That's good to know.  I do need to improve my putting, but it's good to know if I could, if I get better, it's on, I can compete.
Q.  You feel like your ball striking is up at a TOUR level?
RICHARD SCOTT:  I don't know if I could say it's at a TOUR level.  I definitely hit it right this week.  I've hit a lot of fairways, I believe, quite a few greens.  That bodes well.
Q.  Holding your own out there?
RICHARD SCOTT:  I think so.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT