THE 50TH BOB HOPE CLASSIC HOSTED BY ARNOLD PALMER
January 22, 2009
David Berganio, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: I wasn't sure if he was going to pull away on the down swing or anything. And it went in the water. So it was just a bogey. A tough bogey. And it is what it is. But still 17-under.

 Q. I was going to say, let's talk about that 17. You know what it's like to go low here. You know what it's like to get to 30. Pat said yesterday, somebody's going to have to get to 30 and he got to 20 and you got to 17. The courses can be had and you got to go get em, don't you.
 DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: Well, no wind, perfect conditions, very loose out there with all the amateur guys. I played with three great guys yesterday, three great guys today. And it's like playing at the club for me, you know what I mean. 

 Q. You look like you're the kind of a guy who sold insurance in the morning and then went and changed clothes and lit up a little cigar with the boys and go out and play 18 and have a nice little afternoon. You looked really relaxed out there. 
 DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: Well after being away from the game for five and a half years, you know, as much as I enjoyed it then, being away from it, not on my own terms, has really made me appreciate what I have now. 
 And no one gave it to me, I went out and shot 21-under at TOUR school and shot the 64 to get to the finals on the number at second stage. So I'm really enjoying myself.

 Q. How is the back, how are you feeling?
 DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: The last eight months it's really felt a lot better and I'm just, it's something that it's part of my life now that I have to take care of.

 Q. Is it one of those situations where it's good days, bad days or you get good long stretches of good feelings?
 DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: The last probably three months I haven't had a bad day. 
 So I'm very thankful for that. And like I said, I'm just enjoying myself right now and I'm enjoying playing golf again.

 Q. SilverRock and Bermuda Dunes favorites of yours? SilverRock's new in the rotation since you've been playing a lot. 
 DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: Well, I went around a couple weeks ago and played a practice round. I'm glad I came out and saw it. And I'm going to go out and play like I played the last two days.

 Q. And you'll meet three great guys and you'll have a lot of fun. 
 DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: That's it. 

 Q. Keep up the good work. 
 DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT