WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2007
David Berganio, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  I don't want to be the one to ask the usual, but just nice to be out playing golf and playing good golf? 
 DAVID BERGANIO, JR.:  You know, I -- 

 Q.  It's a nice combination. 
 DAVID BERGANIO, JR.:  I played nicely today.  I don't feel very good, but -- I don't know what happened.  Sunday I went for a hike.  It wasn't like mountain climbing, it was just a family hike into the canyons where I live.  45 minutes of walking uphill I locked up and it's still locked up, and stretched, got up early this morning, stretched for a half hour. 
 But I played good today.  I played smart.  You know, when the golf course is as hard as it is and you don't feel so great, you've got to think your way around, you know what I mean?  It's not like line it up and hit it perfect and not thinking about it.  I thought about every shot today. 
 I'm pretty mentally tired right now.  I'm going to go have lunch, get adjusted, and I'm happy the way I played and it's a great golf course here and the people are great.  I'm just happy to be here and come out and shoot 69, you know? 

 Q.  You've had some injury issues over the last couple of years.  Do you feel like you've exhausted almost every avenue as far as getting you back to close to 100 percent? 
 DAVID BERGANIO, JR.:  You know, I've turned over every rock.  You know, it's a mental thing now.  You know, physically I feel pretty close and then I have a day like what happened Sunday, that I was ready to go and came out to Athens, Georgia, to play the Nationwide and warm up for this. 
 I never fell asleep Wednesday night, went to bed at 10:00 for a 5:45 wake-up call and was still awake at 8:00 o'clock in the morning.  I've got anxiety.  If it ain't one thing it's another.  I've got strained hamstrings, and I stretch, I work out, I spin, I do -- I get on the bike and ride.  I don't know. 

 Q.  What went particularly well for you as far as -- you said your fought your way around the course pretty well, obviously hitting some good shots? 
 DAVID BERGANIO, JR.:  I hit a lot of good shots, I holed some putts.  I felt like the old me.  When I looked up the ball was going toward the hole at the right speed.  I got myself around the golf course really well today, and I put myself in good position to make putts. 
 So, you know, I started off well, two birdies in the first three holes and bogeyed 8 and 9 and fought back the last few holes.  I played nice. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT