JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 25, 2002
David Berganio, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 TODD BUDNICK:   66, David Berganio, Jr.  Let's go ahead through the birdies and bogeys.  Starting with 11.
DAVID BERGANIO, JR: 3-wood and 7-iron to about twelve feet.  Little left-to-right downhill, made it.
17, drove it right in the bushes and had taken an unplayable, had to lay-up.  Actually had about an 8-footer for par, hit it side of the hole.
2, drove it over the bunker, layed up with an 8-iron and L-wedge eight feet.
Eagle on 5.  3-wood, 140 yard 9-iron.
6, hit 5 with an L-wedge about a foot.
7, 233 yards, 3-iron about twelve feet.  Made it.
TODD BUDNICK:  Tell us a little bit about your round today.
DAVID BERGANIO, JR: I didn't drive it particularly well.  I missed the fairway on 13 with a driver and then missed the fairway on 17.  Missed the fairway on 18.  Missed the fairway on 2.  (Laughs).  Missed the fairway on 9 when I hit drivers.  I missed it where I knew I could miss it.  I was missing just a little right.  Hit a lot of greens  -- the rough isn't real high and hit the greens from usually from where I was. 
I almost holed down the next one,  an L-wedge behind the hole and it went just behind the backside of the hole, almost went in.  Ended up about a foot.

Q.   The eagle you said, straight in the hole --
DAVID BERGANIO, JR: Landed about a foot, about three feet short, rolled up, little downhill.  Downwind wasn't going to spin too much. 

Q.   Is that hole playing easier than it normally would because of the wind?
DAVID BERGANIO JR:  It's going to be a driver and a 9-iron or 3-wood and the iron.  It just takes a driver out of your hand when sit down wind.  Opposite wind today like, you know, 15 and 2 were into the wind.  1 was into the wind.  No. 4 was into the wind.  Those are  all pretty good holes which I think were designed to play downwind.  But that hole was  3-wood and 9-iron or a driver and 9-iron.  It's either.

Q.   Is the wind making the course -- making it a different course than what you were expecting?
DAVID BERGANIO, JR: 15 usually I hit like 3-wood and 7 or 6 iron.  Today I hit 3-wood and 4-iron, could hit 3-iron but it took it back out of play and you know, 30 feet, but I mean, 3-wood, 4-iron.  17 was real reachable today this morning.  Carl knocked it on pretty easy.  I could have knocked it on, but I drove it right.  Then 18 I hit a hard drive down the right, still hit like 8-iron in there.   That's like a 3-wood and a 9-iron, 8-iron. 

Q.   Is Doc caddying for you?
DAVID BERGANIO, JR: No, I have my regular caddy for me this week.  Doc has got a bad back. 

Q.   He would have caddied for you?
DAVID BERGANIO, JR: I don't know.  He's saying his caddying days are over, he has got two surgeries or something. 

Q.   Talk about generally shooting a round like this this year, I mean, have you been working on some things?  Did you see a round like this coming or did this -- was this just kind of out of the blue?
DAVID BERGANIO, JR: I have been playing well, and I missed a bunch of cuts in a row by one shot and then Milwaukee, you know, today I didn't hit it as well as I have in the past; finally got something out of my game.  Like Milwaukee I made like an 8-footer on the last hole to make the cut on the number and then I knew I was playing well but I was missing all these cuts by a stroke.  So I couldn't show myself or prove to myself that I am really playing well just not scoring.  And then on the weekend after I made the putt on the last hole to make the cut at 3-under, I shoot 9-under on the weekend, and it is kind of where I felt my game has been, but I haven't been able to show it being -- having the weekend off.  I missed -- I think I went on a stretch of 4 out of 5 or 5 out of 6 cuts I missed by a shot. 

Q.   Does that kind of put you then in a comfort zone?
DAVID BERGANIO JR:  No, you never  -- I don't worry -- I am not just out here to make cuts.  I tee it up to win, and I am going to go out and play like it is a new day tomorrow, just add it up after 36 and add it up after 54 and after 72.  That's the way I look at things.  
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT