BOB HOPE CHRYSLER CLASSIC
January 20, 2002
David Berganio, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  David, thank you for joining us.  It was a long week 
out there, five rounds, you battled hard.  Battled hard today.  Why don't 
you share with us your emotions. 


DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: I wasn't getting emotional until you told me you were 
proud of me still. 
But it's been a long week.  I was close.  And a long week, four days with 
amateurs, four different courses.  You don't ever feel like you're prepared. 
I hadn't seen Indian Wells and Bermuda Dunes since '97.  And it's been a 
long week. 
I'm proud of myself and I'm proud of the way I handled myself.  I've just 
got to keep trying, keep being persistent.  I'm going to win, and I know it, 
and that's all that matters. 

Q.  (Inaudible.) 
DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: I knew I was going to birdie 18.  I hit a great putt 
on 17, and it didn't fall and I just told myself, "You've got to go, you've 
got to do it." 
I hit the 5-wood long, and I just had a 2-putt and I did  -- and gave 
myself a chance and that's all I can ask for. 

Q.  (Inaudible.) 
DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: I saw Duffy's role down the hill and maybe it's a 
little faster than I thought it was, and I hit mine, and it came up eight 
feet short or nine feet short, and made the putt for birdie. 

Q.  The second shot on the playoff  --? 
DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: I was a little pumped up, and I was afraid of getting 
on that downslope, and I did and I just chunked it a little bit trying to 
get it up in the air and that was that. 

Q.  You're still in pretty good shape? 
DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: When he asked me to mark my ball, I said, "He's going 
to use that backstop and he did."  And you can't count Phil out because of 
his short game, and he knew exactly what he was doing and he did it.  I tip 
my hat to Phil.  He's a great player, obviously, and he showed it right 
there. 

Q.  David, what club did you use on the second shot? 
DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: 4 -iron, and I was 206.  I was trying to hit a hard 
cut on the right portion of the green.  And I just chunked it. 

Q.  With that club in your hand is that normally -- that's a long yardage, 
obviously, but is that a pretty comfortable club for you? 
DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: Very comfortable club.  With the new ball and shafts, 
my 4-iron goes like 210. 

Q.  What was your yardage to the hole the first time you played it? 
DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: 217 and I just hit a 5-wood up in the air, didn't even 
mess with the front. 

Q.  Were you being more aggressive the second time? 
DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: No, I was playing -- I knew I had to get it over the 
front and I knew it was going to be long.  The 3-iron went to the back of 
the green.  And the first day we played here I was 217 and I hit a 4-iron 
and it went to the back of the green, about 240, 250, after it released. 

Q.  Do you have anymore admiration for Phil being able to take five months 
off and be able to come in and play five rounds and win a tournament? 
DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: He broke his leg a few years back and came back and 
almost won in Dallas.  We've been doing it forever.  It's not like we're 
going to lose it, you know what I mean? 

Q.  Talk about how this sets the year up for you? 
DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: I just want to win.  And I've given myself plenty of 
opportunities, four or five last year.  I'll keep doing what I'm doing.  I'm 
doing good stuff.  And it gets me in all the invitationals now. 
I missed the top 70s by a couple of shots.  I know I'm at Bay Hill and it 
sets my schedule around it.  So it does set my year off to a good start. 
What's second place pay? 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  420 
Q.  Are you beyond the point, though, you talk about wanting to win, you're 
beyond the point of just wanting to compete out here? 
DAVID BERGANIO, JR.: I just don't want to be a 125 player, you know, and -- 
I'm ready to win.  I've won at every level.  I've won three times, Nike 
BUY.COM and won amateur and college stuff.  Seems like every time I get a 
chance to win  -- in '97 I'm playing Tiger, Mickelson in Hartford last year, 
Mickelson again.  When I look back I want to say, "You know, I got beat by 
the best." 
I didn't play in Asia and Australia and beat a bunch of guys nobody knows. 
It would be like knocking out Tyson.  I want to beat the best.  I want to 
move up in the world rankings and have goals.  I'm not afraid.  And Phil 
doesn't scare me.  I respect him.  He's a great player.  He's a very nice 
guy.  But I'm ready to play.  30-under, that's pretty damn good. 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT