GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 28, 2001
David Berganio, Jr.
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID BERGANIO:  Thank you.  Yeah, I played pretty well, the last -- probably last four, five holes on the front and the back nine I played really solid, so just trying give myself a chance at birdies and I did. 

DAVID BERGANIO:  Driver, sand wedge to around, I don't know, 18 feet, made it.  Hit another driver and sand wedge to No. 11 about four feet.  Hit L-wedge from about 90 yards on 13 to about six feet.  And then I hit L-wedge on 16 to about two feet. 


Q.  Why do you think the leaderboard has been so crowded?

DAVID BERGANIO:  I think the golf course is -- you know, the pins are -- to me they have been pretty tough, but everyone is saying that the pins are easy.  But I think the greens are firming up.  There is a couple of low rounds from the guys early when the greens were a little softer like when I went off in the morning yesterday and shot 66.  But the afternoon guys they are 5-under, whatever, I don't see anyone really shooting 63 tomorrow in the leader groups.  They could, but the golf course is there, there is no wind but the greens are firming up, and you have got to hit the fairway.  Rough is not that high, but still you are not going to be able to stop it out of that short rough.

Q.  Do you think possibly someone from the back of the pack can shoot a score tomorrow that later you guys will have to look at it?

DAVID BERGANIO:  I think so.  Just like today there's a couple of 65s or something in there, and you know they were out before I was done, before I started, so I think someone early is going to get out and shoot a low one. 

Q.  How did you putt today?

DAVID BERGANIO:  I putted pretty well.  I made all the ones I had to make and I really didn't  -- on 17 I think it was the only par-putt that was outside of, you know, a foot, foot and a half, or that was the one that I needed to make, but everything else pretty solid, speed was good. 

Q.  Ready to win out here?

DAVID BERGANIO:  I think so.  I had a chance to win in 1997.  I was paired against Tiger, but...

Q.  So what?

DAVID BERGANIO:  Yeah, would have been nice, but we will see tomorrow.  I am just going to get out here and try to play good golf tomorrow, hit the fairways and hit some greens and give myself a chance to win and, you know, that is what we are all out here for.  I am not afraid to win.  I have won at every level.  I have won three times on the BUY.COM, Nike, and, you know, I am not afraid, I know that.

Q.  What tournaments?

DAVID BERGANIO:  Omaha last year.

Q.  No, the one with Tiger?

DAVID BERGANIO:  Byron Nelson in 1997.

Q.  You have been really, really working hard and you had sort of a great round building up inside of you.  Has that been like what has kept you so consistent this week you got a lot of confidence in yourself?

DAVID BERGANIO:  I don't think there is any of us lacking confidence out here, but you know, going into the week I wasn't hitting the ball that great and started Friday, Thursday afternoon and Friday afternoon I started hitting the ball really well, and today I hit it pretty solid.  Obviously I am one shot off and I have got a little confidence going. 

Q.  Do you sense that some people are afraid to win?

DAVID BERGANIO:  I can't speak for other people, but I guess there are players out here that the media has marked them that way, you know, this is it.  I mean this, is the PGA TOUR.  It's the hardest place to play, I don't want to look back when I am 50 and say:  God, I made 10 million playing in Asia, you know, I'd like to make a lot of money and like to be here.  I mean, the money is here to be made and it is the toughest time to play the Tour but it also the best time to play the Tour.  I want to beat the best.  I don't want to  -- I played everywhere and this is where I want to play.  This is where I want to win. 

Q.  Was there a time when you were afraid to win?

DAVID BERGANIO:  No.  Never been afraid.  Nothing.  (Laughs).

Q.  Not that day with Tiger?

DAVID BERGANIO:  Nope.  I shot 72.  I didn't go out and shoot 80.  I didn't make any putts.  He made the putts. This is when Tiger just came on, we had 50,000, you had to go two or three a holes just to wait for us to come.  He was  -- it was fun, I mean, I enjoyed it.  I am not afraid.  If I don't enjoy what I do then I am not going to do it, whatever it is.  If I don't enjoy this, I mean how can you not enjoy 85 degrees, perfect blue skies, and perfect greens, and you know, nice crowds, I am out here having fun.  Win, lose, or draw tomorrow I am going to look back Monday and say:  You know what, I had fun, and that is all I can ask. 

Q.  Are you going to miss this course?  JAYCEES are moving this tournament in three years.  Are you going to miss the course?

DAVID BERGANIO:  This is a good golf course.  I don't know where they are going but I hope it is as good or better if they are going to move it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT