HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2007
Seon Hwa Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN:  Congratulations on winning your match this afternoon, 3 & 2.  Can you just talk about how you played today?   
 SEON HWA LEE:  Actually I have a great start because I made bogey on No. 2 and another bogey on No. 4.   
 But then I just kept concentrating on my game, every single hole, especially because this is match play.  So I just kept playing to make birdies, and then I played really well on the back nine.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Is there any hole where you felt like you took the momentum from her and you started to pull away?   
 SEON HWA LEE:  I think No. 9 I made birdie.  I think that was my first birdie on No. 9, that was a really good start and then another birdie on No. 11.  I think that's really what started it.   
  
  Q.  After four of these match-play matches, do you feel like you're getting into a groove where it almost becomes easier as you go out match after match?  Have you sensed any kind of improvement in your play over the three days?   
 SEON HWA LEE:  I think match play is different than stroke play because in match play -- I try to make a lot of birdies every single hole, so you can be a bit more aggressive.  I can be more aggressive and I think that's really important in match play, I think, yeah.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Do you feel like each match you play it gets easier and you know mentally what you need to do?   
 SEON HWA LEE:  Yeah, mentally it's hard because you have to really concentrate on every single shot.  I think that's what makes it harder than stroke play.   
  
  Q.  Have you faced either of your two possible opponents in the semis ever in match play?   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Do you know who you're playing tomorrow?   
 SEON HWA LEE:  This is only my second year in the match play.  I didn't play last time on the weekend.  This is my first time.   
 I'm just going to be aggressive tomorrow and have fun.   
  
  Q.  Can you just describe how your game has been this week?  What have you been doing very well?   
 SEON HWA LEE:  I think my putting has been really well this week.  I missed a couple of greens but got up-and-down and made a lot of birdies.  My putter has worked really well this week.   
  
  Q.  Could you talk about playing twice in one day, how did you get through that and anything you learned today that you are going to take into tomorrow in terms of possibly playing two matches in one day?   
 SEON HWA LEE:  I think it's really helped a lot because I really played well today.  I think the match will be really hard tomorrow because my body will be really tired and I have to work on that tomorrow, too, so I think mentally it will be really hard tomorrow.   
 MIKE SCANLAN:  Seon Hwa, thank you and good luck tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT