KIA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY J GOLF
March 26, 2010
Seon Hwa Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: Seon Hwa Lee, you're standing at 5-under, tied for the lead. Can you talk about your round today? 
 SEON HWA LEE: I hit really good today. I play really solid today. I didn't miss -- I just missed the last hole, the fairway, and I hit a lot of green and made a couple of putts. 
 Just played same, like yesterday, just hit the fairway, the greens are small there so hit it -- really try to hit the green and make putt, so I played solid today. 

 Q. You're a consistent ball striker, I feel, so how do you feel that this course suits your game? 
 SEON HWA LEE: This golf course kind of really -- couple holes really long. I can hit it like 3 hybrid, 4 hybrid so I hit a lot of rescue out there, but the fairways small, couple holes, and the greens small at every hole, so just try to really hit it fairway and green.
 I don't want to miss the green because the rough is tough, too, at this golf course so just really tried to hit the green. 

 Q. You have four wins on Tour, but you haven't won since 2008. How do you feel going into the weekend tied for the lead? 
 SEON HWA LEE: It's exciting and I'm looking forward to this weekend. I had the good last two weeks off and I work hard with my coach, Mike Bender, and work on the golf a lot, practicing the short game, so look forward to this weekend. 

 Q. Are you working on anything in particular in your swing? 
 SEON HWA LEE: Same kind of drill and work on the impact, my golf swing, everything is pretty good but just work it, impact position, right positions, so that's about it. 

 Q. You had a couple of good years in a row and then fell off a little bit last year. What happened last year? 
 SEON HWA LEE: I think I had a lot of pressure last year because I had good years last three years, I won every year, but I think I put more pressure on myself, and I think that does not work, last year. 
 But work pretty much the same past couple of years, but I think my golf game didn't come out. 

 Q. How did you like teeing off early? Did that make much of a difference to you today? 
 SEON HWA LEE: Today is a lot more comfortable. I hit a lot of fairways, so I feel comfortable, and my short game is really good this week. 

 Q. Did you feel that the golf course played easier in the morning versus yesterday afternoon? 
 SEON HWA LEE: When I played yesterday it was windy, so it's a little bit hard to play, but today when I play this morning the wind is calm so it's not as hard as yesterday. 

 Q. How long have you worked with Mike Bender and how did you get hooked up with him? 
 SEON HWA LEE: This is my fifth year with Mike Bender, almost six years. My friend was playing the LPGA Tour also, and she introduced me to Mike, and I thought he was really nice teacher so I came to Florida from San Diego. 
 HEATHER DALY-DONOFRIO: Thank you, Seon Hwa. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT