P&G BEAUTY NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
September 9, 2009
Seon Hwa Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Seon Hwa, thanks for coming in here. You're the defending champion of this event, winning it last year, so if you could talk about how it feels to come back since you won last year. 
 SEON HWA LEE: I had really fun last year, and this tournament sponsor, P&G beauty is such a good company, and people of Arkansas so wonderful. So I have been looking forward to coming back to here to play for one year.
 JASON TAYLOR: Great. Questions? 

 Q. Seon Hwa, what are your biggest memories from winning this last year? What do you remember most about the tournament last year?
 SEON HWA LEE: When I won this tournament last year, that was my second winning that year, so that was my first time the second win in one year. So that was memorable, and a lot of crowds here. 

 Q. How do you feel like your golf game is this year? And I know you haven't won yet this year, but do you feel like you're kind of on track to maybe do that?
 SEON HWA LEE: I'm not sure. I mean, I'm working really hard off the golf course, with strength and my fitness, and I'm practicing hard and working with my coach, and TaylorMade, my sponsor, TaylorMade, they have been great. Best equipment I can get. 
 But I finished the Top 5 the last six tournaments. I think my game is coming together. 

 Q. When you win twice in one year, does that increase people's recognition of you? Do you get more recognition when you go to these tournaments after winning twice in one year like you did last year?
 JASON TAYLOR: Since you won twice last year, do people recognize you more now? 
 SEON HWA LEE: Yes. I mean, the last three years, I won every year, and then I won twice last year, so a lot of people recognize me. And you know, I did a lot of autographs on the golf course, and when I'm in Korea, especially.

 Q. It rains here every year, it seems like. Is that frustrating when like rain is a factor at these tournaments constantly like that for you guys?
 SEON HWA LEE: Yeah. The last two years has been a lot of rain, and I know first year it was canceled, but I think hopefully this year it's a lot better weather, but today it's the rain again. But it is frustrating, but it's a great tournament, so I think the weather better this year, I hope. 

 Q. You said you worked a lot on your fitness this year. What kind of things have you been doing?
 SEON HWA LEE: I did like five times a week, and I did like a couple -- one day is upper body. The other day is lower body, and next day it's cardio. And then once a week I did kickboxing kind of thing. My trainer made it, the program. So I did a lot of the cardio, including kickboxing, and that was fun. 

 Q. Was it fun or was it kind of like --
 SEON HWA LEE: It does make it fun, but if you do like five times a week, just do like weights and stuff, I mean your body is going to be really tired and not fun. So my trainer make a different program last year, so we do a lot of cardio thing and jump around and kickboxing, so that was fun. 

 Q. Have you been able to play the golf course since the remodel, and what do you think about the changes that they've made out here?
 SEON HWA LEE: Yeah. The golf course almost every hole is very different than last year. It won't be easier since they changed it so much, but I think I do have a good feeling in Arkansas and this golf course, so it's good for me. 
 JASON TAYLOR: All right? Thank you. 
 SEON HWA LEE: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT