LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 22, 2009
Seon Hwa Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MIKE SCANLAN: All right, Seon Hwa, two tough bogeys at the end, but you had a really good day overall and now you're 10-under par. If you would, just talk about your day. 
 SEON HWA LEE: I played very solid until last two holes actually. I mean I really played solid. I mean I was 6-under after six. That was the first time I played like that. So it was really solid.
 I had a lot of confidence after the front nine, and then I had still nine holes left, so I was really ready for the low score, but there was some trouble ahead of me. 
 The last two holes were just difficult for me. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Questions? 

 Q. What do you think led to it? Were you getting fatigued? Was the sun wearing you down a little bit or was it just a loss of concentration?
 SEON HWA LEE: Today? 

 Q. Yeah. On the last two holes. 
 SEON HWA LEE: Last two holes? I mean the 17th hole I hit driver, perfect fairway, middle of the fairway, and then a wedge to just pin high. 
 It wasn't that long of a putt, but I just maybe missed the break. I mean I thought it was a little downhill, but it was really fast. So I missed it like three foot, popped out. 
 So I was a little disappointed, and then the last hole, the tee shot was a little left, but I mean I was not doing great the last two holes.

 Q. Now, looking at the scoreboard, not a lot of ladies going really low today. Is that surprising? Did the conditions change between yesterday and today?
 SEON HWA LEE: I mean I think I'm surprised the scores aren't lower because the whole par-5, we can't even see the green. And the course is in really great shape, and it's like really easy. 
 And then the weather last two days, weather was perfect to play. So there were low scores. So I mean it was like 3-under to even par.

 Q. Are you happy where you are after two rounds?
 SEON HWA LEE: Yeah. 10-under is still I think a good score, and still two days left, so I'm just looking forward to the weekend. 

 Q. At this point do you think of a score, or do you set goals day by day or do you just go shot by shot?
 SEON HWA LEE: Just probably day by day. Like 3-under is best like even par, so I just want to hit as low as I can, to make as low as I can, the score.
 And today like I can shoot 8-under, but made two bogeys the last two holes, but that was disappointing, but I think yeah, 10-under is a good score and there's two days left, so I'm trying to think about this weekend. 
 MIKE SCANLAN: Seon Hwa, thank you so much for coming in. 
 SEON HWA LEE: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT