P&G BEAUTY NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
July 6, 2008
Seon Hwa Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ASHLEY CUSHMAN: Seon Hwa, thank you for coming in and joining us today. You previously won the Ginn Tribute Hosted by ANNIKA. It is a great year for you. What are you feeling right now?   
 SEON HWA LEE: I feel great. This is my second win this year. And it was a really tough day. The weather was really hard, and everything was really hard. But I really felt good about my game. And every single shot was I wanted today, and I feel really great. I feel really good now.   
  
  Q. Can you tell us about 18? Did you know that Meena had bogeyed 17 yet, and did you go into that hole knowing the birdie was needed for the win?   
 SEON HWA LEE: When I was on the green, I saw the scoreboard, she was 15 under and through 16th hole. I didn't know about she made birdie on 17. So, but, only on my third I made it, and I think about it. I think about the playoffs.   
  
  Q. So you were prepared to go into the playoffs?   
 SEON HWA LEE: Yes.   
  
  Q.  Were you watching Meena on 18?   
 SEON HWA LEE: I was watching the score. I didn't see her putt.   
  
  Q. There were as many as five girls in the lead at different points. And you were both tied at the lead for the same time. What did you do that made your play so consistent that you were able to outlast all of them?   
 SEON HWA LEE: I mean, I had played really great today. I made birds on the first hole and made eagle on 7. It was a really good start. But then I hit pretty close to pin, but I didn't make birdies.   
I had a lot of good chance, but my putt was not as well, not today's score. But I just keep trying to play. And like today. And I just did good posture and every single shot for the win.   
  
  Q. Did you feel like you had maybe missed some opportunities throughout the back 9 that might have put you ahead?   
 SEON HWA LEE: Yeah. I mean the number 17th hole -- no, 16 hole, I hit like really close to the pin. But I missed it only like five-foot putt. So that was difficult for me.   
  
  Q. What was going through your mind after you made the putt on 18? It was like you didn't really smile. You didn't look too happy. What was kind of going through your mind? Were you kind of like I guess there is going to be a playoff? What were you thinking?   
 SEON HWA LEE: Actually, I was so tired after yesterday. After the 18 hole, I was tired. And I just think about -- just I thought I would just keep playing nice, to sudden death with Meena Lee. I mean, I didn't know about the number 17 hole.   
  
  Q. As the day was going along, were you kind of surprised that you were still tied for the lead? I mean you made I think it was ten pars in a row. Did you kind of think that all these other players might keep making birdies and go further ahead of you?   
 SEON HWA LEE: I thought the score was more than 14 under, because the golf course is in really good shape. And the players like I said were 6 under today, but I think the weather's really hot the last few days. It's really tough to play like 8 under. And I mean --   
  
  Q. Was there anything in particular about how the golf course was playing? Or was it more that you guys were just tired?   
 SEON HWA LEE: The pins played more hard than yesterday. Definitely more hard than the last two days. The weather was more not good.   
  
  Q. How much does it help that you've won before? I mean, how much does it help when you're going to the last few holes and you know how to win? You've done it before?   
  
THE MODERATOR: Did having the experience of winning help you? Does it help to calm your nerves?   
 SEON HWA LEE: Yes. I mean, this year when I won the Ginn Tribute Open, I was 9 shots behind the leader. But I shot 5 under, and today it was 4 or 5 under, so I just tried to shoot like 4 or 5 under. And so I did. So a lot of the winning is lot of experience to me.   
  
  Q. Can we talk a little about your eagle on 7? Did you see it on 7? Can you talk about that and how important that was?   
 SEON HWA LEE: Yeah, it was 45 to the pin, and the grain's really down slow, so I tried to shoot a 30-yard shot. And when I hit it, I thought it was perfect and the ball landed just perfect. And the ball just keep rolls. And my caddie's crazy I thought. So it was great moment today.   
 THE MODERATOR: He saw it go in?   
 SEON HWA LEE: Yeah, but I couldn't see it.   
  
  Q. What did you think about the crowd?   
 SEON HWA LEE: The crowd was really, really good. Lot of the crowd was really good, so it was just really good.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT