MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 4, 2008
Seon Hwa Lee
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MIKE SCANLAN: Congratulations on your win last week, if you would talk just a little bit about what it's like being here trying to win a major.   
 SEON HWA LEE: Actually, I didn't expect to win last week but I had a lot of luck and I tried my best last week.   
 I won last week and I've got a lot of confidence now, and am little bit tired, but I'm just excited, second major tournament, McDonald's, and it's exciting now.  
  
  Q. How do you feel about your chances this week at Bulle Rock?  
 SEON HWA LEE: No, but I'm trying to -- (laughter) -- I'm trying my best, like last week, so we'll see.   
  
  Q. Why don't you think you can win?   
 SEON HWA LEE: I'm really tired now, but the golf course is really long now, because yesterday, there was lots of rain and the fairways are really wet now.   
 So I'm not alone here. But just hit it straight and make a lot of putts. So I if I think play like that, I'll be all right.   
  
  Q. You're supposed to play with Annika first and second round; how do you feel about that?   
 SEON HWA LEE: I feel good playing with Annika, I played with her the last few years. She gave me the trophy last week, so tomorrow will be really exciting and the next two days.   
  
  Q. You were the first Korean to win on Tour this year; how did that make you feel?  
 SEON HWA LEE: Pretty great. I mean, last year I was the last Korean and this year I'm the first Korean to win, and I think it's really great and a lot of Korean players get a chance to win the rest of the year.   
  
  Q. I know you get asked this a lot but what is it about the South Korean girls? What makes you play so well?  
 SEON HWA LEE: I think just Korean players really work hard and practice really hard and they just try to win I think every week.   
 I mean, they just work so hard and practice so hard, and that's why they are really good. They have a lot of success.   
  
  Q. Not only did you win last week, but you came back from nine shots, a really big comeback, what does that do for your game or for your mental game; the fact that you were nine shots back and I think at one time, ten shots back, and you still won?   
 SEON HWA LEE: That was my first experience, the win last week, so I mean, the last round, I just tried my best. I just tried to have the best finish, so I just really, really focused on every single shot and I got a really good chance to win the back nine, and I won last week, so I think that's really, really a good experience and never give up.   
 MIKE SCANLAN: Thanks so much for coming in, and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT