EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 15, 2016
Lee Westwood
Chris Wood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Very nice performance.
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, we dovetailed well.  Made quite a few birdies, no bogeys, didn't give any holes away.  Woody played well, especially around the back nine there and made some lovely putts when he needed to.  Yeah, they were always going to be a tough combination to beat.  They are both good players and they hit a lot of fairways.  So we have got to be on our game.
Q. Moving ahead relatively early on, staying ahead, that helps.
CHRIS WOOD: Yeah, we were always in control, really, of the game.  I wasn't anywhere near my best, really, the first sort of ten, 15 holes.  That's one of the many advantages of playing with someone like Lee; he is always going to keep you in the hole.  When the time came to knock a couple of putts in, I was there.  Like he said, we dovetailed really nicely.
Q. It's nice when a new partnership comes together right from out of the blocks, isn't it?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it's good.  It's not always easy to do.  But we've known each other for a long time now, and Chris is a good player, I know that, and it's just a matter of getting used to team golf in this kind of format.  Just feeling comfortable.  You can see as the round went on that he got more comfortable with it and got into doing what he needed to do.
Q. You said when the pairing was announced that you were looking forward to learning.  Do you learn on the job?  You're a hugely talented player, anyway.
CHRIS WOOD: I learned I need to hit a few more fairways to help him.  Just to play with Lee, nine Ryder Cups, it was a privilege for me to be playing with him and to learn as much as I can as I go along.  But most important thing is we won a point, so it's a good start for our European Team.
Q. Nice sea of blue after day one.
LEE WESTWOOD: I think you take a score line like that, it's quite a big win, and even down to that match being halved rather than a loss, that can mean a lot.  At one point out there, I think we were up in all six.
So credit to the Asian lads for fighting back and getting 1 1/2 points.  We know we have got a strong team and we know they have got a strong team.  We know we have to perform well.  There won't be any complacency on our side.  We'll just try to come out fast and fresh again tomorrow and try to win that session, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT