U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2016
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Weather delays over the years.  Obviously, you've played golf for so many years.  What do you do on a day like this?  How do you stay patient and complete a solid round?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Drink a lot of coffee (indiscernible).  We've got the Euros to watch in the weather delays (inaudible).   
 Q.  You're a creature of habit.  A certain amount of time, you're a golfer, you get finished, you just want to hit some balls and get out of here.  This obviously disrupts that.  Have you learned over the years to just be patient?  This is just part of what you do?  
LEE WESTWOOD: You can't really control the weather.  You can't let it (inaudible).  The U.S. Open is a test of patience.  This just adds to it.  So try and get your head around it and make the best of it.   
 Q.  And you've played solid golf so far, 1 under par, couple of shots back.  You've played Oakmont before.  It's completely different today.  What do you expect the rest of the week to be like?  
LEE WESTWOOD: (Inaudible) obviously, it slows the golf course down a lot.  (Inaudible) it was playing really tough.  Obviously, they'll slow down a little bit, but it still doesn't (inaudible).  The sand traps are a bit heavier.  It's all about adapting to the conditions.   
 Q.  It rained last night.  We got a lot of rain today.  Did you know today was the day to go get it?  You knew you had to come in and play a round under par after seeing what some of the other guys do?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Not really.  It was soft conditions.  So you just go out there and try to play and get off to a steady start (inaudible).   
 Q.  How important is it (inaudible), as the lightning continues to disrupt the interview.  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I think all the guys there, they get (inaudible).  I like to get into contention and give myself a chance.  That's what I did at the Masters, and hopefully I'll do it here.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) at Torrey Pines.  Is there anything you feel like you have right now in your game to just get you over that step or just a shot or two better than where you are?  
 Because you've been so close so many times and played great golf (inaudible).   
LEE WESTWOOD: I'm playing as well as I can tee to green.  I think the short game is (inaudible).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT