BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2016
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Birdie, birdie finish to get in the clubhouse with a 68, how were you able to put it together today?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Not too many mistakes.  No bogeys.  Short game was pretty sharp.  A couple of mental errors but other than that, played really solidly all day.  Didn't really make a long putt but felt like I rolled it on line a lot of the time.   
 Q.  Did you have a number in mind to start the day when you saw there were three guys at 10-under par as far as where you were trying to get to to set yourself up for Sunday?  
LEE WESTWOOD: 64.  As low as possible, really.  Try and make up as much ground.  You don't know what the fellas are going to do in front.  I think Wentworth is a difficult course to lead on, protect the lead.  Lots of things can get out of control out there, because the course is getting tougher as the week goes on.   
 Q.  How is your ankle?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Just strained a ligament on my left foot running on Tuesday morning.  43 years of age, going to have to give up running.  But yeah, I'm taking painkillers and anti-inflammatories and it's strapped up.  Maybe it's stopping me getting on my left side quite so quick; maybe that's why I'm playing so well.   
 Q.  A 23rd straight appearance in this championship, I know you're very proud of that, but what does a bogey-free 68 do for your chances tomorrow?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Gives me a better chance that I had this morning.  I closed the gap a little bit.  It's not playing quite so easy today.  I was pleased that I didn't make any bogeys, make any mistakes.  I didn't really hole a putt over sort of four feet, so to shoot 68 shows the quality of my tee-to-green.   
 Q.  It looks, it feels like, you're on the verge of something special again, I don't know how you feel about that, but after that performance at the Masters, tied second, how special was that to you in the context of it being a difficult few months in your career?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, did a lot for my confidence.  I haven't played very well for quite some time.  I played okay end of the year last year in Thailand which got me into the Masters and The Open Championship.  But to play well at Augusta with the world's best players, and that's a golf course I've played well on in the past, it really sort of gave me a bit of confirmation that I've still got the game to compete.   
 Q.  You're back working with Pete Cowen and you're seeing Bob Rotella on the greens, and so I know you're working very hard.  How optimistic do you feel about the summer?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Very optimistic.  I haven't played a lot at the start of the year, so I'm pretty fresh coming into this part of the season.  Normally I would have played sort of 15 events, and I've only played six.  I'm looking forward to a run of golf now.  My schedule is pretty good from until after all the majors are finished and The Ryder Cup, and hope to get some momentum really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT