MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2016
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. (No Microphone.)  
LEE WESTWOOD: It's tough when the wind is up. There's so many hard holes and not that many birdie chances, only really two, I suppose, for me, because I can't get to 8. And you just got to hang in there.   
You know it's possible around here to shoot 4‑ or 5‑under on the back nine, so it's a case of not losing your patience and not being too aggressive when you don't need to be and then just taking the chances when they present themselves on the back nine.   
   
 Q. Well, you had a great back nine with four birdies. Take us through each birdie.   
LEE WESTWOOD: I hit a 9‑iron to about four feet at 12. It was a good shot.   
Driver, 3‑wood‑‑ 13 was playing long. I got that to about 25 feet. 2‑putted.   
9‑iron to three feet nearly went in on 14 and made that putt.   
And then 18 I hit drive and a 6‑iron and I guess to about 30 feet and rolled it in. It was nice to finish with a birdie.   
   
 Q. You can't do any more work today, but there's a bunch of guys out there still playing, conditions are tough. You're tied 11th at 1‑over. How do you feel about your position?  
LEE WESTWOOD: I'm pleased. Anywhere around even par today is a good score. It's certainly the hardest day of the three, I would say, certainly when we played the wind was really up, I think it's maybe dropped slightly over the last three or four holes that we played, but it's still very, very tough and the greens are getting glassy out there.  
   
 Q. Any other thoughts about your tournament so far or this round in particular?  
LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really. I just played solidly. It's not been easy, scoring conditions and stuff. Billy and I were talking coming up 18, we think it's the three hardest days either of us have ever had at Augusta. So, to be at 1‑over par and have a chance going into Sunday's great.   
   
 Q. How does that rank in your Augusta performances?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, that was right up there. It was tough out there. The golf course is not getting any easier. It was really blowing when we teed off. It may have dropped just slightly now, but it's still tough out there.   
The greens are like glass. I had two of the fastest putts I've ever had on Augusta on 7 and 15. Just when you hit a couple of good shots like I did on 7 to 15 feet and you're just trying to 2‑putt it, lag it down there, you know they're getting shiny.   
   
 Q. Shiny performance for you.   
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, you know, I hung in there around the front nine, I always think the front nine plays tough when it's hard conditions, there aren't that many birdie chances and there's a lot of bogey chances. And then around the back nine you know you can make a few birdies. You can be a bit more aggressive. I took advantage of those holes.   
   
 Q. There are eight Englishmen in the field and seven of them made the cut.  
LEE WESTWOOD: Who let us down?   
   
 Q. Sullivan.   
LEE WESTWOOD: Kids now days.   
   
 Q. Talk about that record performance.   
LEE WESTWOOD: It's great. English golf is very strong. I don't know that it gets the credit it deserves. I suppose if a few more of us start winning Major Championships and World Golf Championships, probably it would. But there's a lot of good players now that are good young players and the veterans are hanging in there, too.   
   
 Q. Your progression of getting here, going playing in Match Play, playing in Houston, not really having played a lot competitively before Match Play, did you feel when you came here that you did the things you needed to do to play well here?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I played some golf, that's all I need to do, really. I didn't play hardly at all in the six weeks that I had off, so conditions and just the way I was feeling didn't dictate that I really wanted to play that much. So, it was nice to get to Austin and hit balls every day and then do the same in Houston and then it's showing it here, I'm becoming more competitive as time goes on.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT