WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 7, 2015
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Yesterday a 68.LEE WESTWOOD: It was a little bit trickier today, I thought.  I played pretty similar.  Close round, I made two birdies.  Putted quite nicely, 26 putts.  Hitting it in the fairways. The best birdie chance on the golf course was on 6.  Really a shame.  I bogeyed 18.  I thought it did a little bit better today.Q. One of those putts came on the final hole for a par.LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I hit a good drive.  The fairway kicked right (inaudible).Q. Yesterday (inaudible) you can almost play from memory.LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I probably wouldn't have to read them.  There's very few putts I have no idea how to (inaudible).  You do it because you go through a routine.Q. How do you spend your afternoon?  Nice weather and relax or get some practice in?LEE WESTWOOD: I'm going to watch some Sky.  That should be it.  And then I'll probably hit a few balls.Q. Very solid round of golf today.  How tough is it out there with this course firming up?  And is it firming up by the hole?  Did it feel like that almost?LEE WESTWOOD: The front nine, the greens are a little bit more receptive just because we were out earlier.  By the time we got to this sort of 2nd and 3rd holes, the greens were starting to firm up, and you weren't getting off the green.  So it's imperative to hit fairways really.Q. These targets look very small.  Is confidence getting up and down going to be a big factor?LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah.  Your short game is going to have to be good because you're not going to hit all the fairways.  These fairways are fast running, and there's a lot of undulations on them.  You land in the right side of some of the fairways, and it goes into the rough.  That's going to be tough over the next couple of days.  You have to accept that.  You're going to miss a few greens, a few fairways, and your short game has to be strong.Q. The way you describe Firestone Country Club South, it sounds to me like you're describing a Lee Westwood type of golf course.  Do you feel comfortable and confident around here?LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I've always felt good on this golf course, especially when it plays hard and firm.  I seem to play better under these conditions.  Gets a bit soft in the fairways, gets a bit wider, and it becomes more of a bomber's golf course.  The targets get a little bigger, so I like this course.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT