ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2015
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SARAH GWYNN:   Lee, welcome back to the Alstom Open de France.   First time playing here for a few years.
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah I think 2012 was the last time I was here so I ’m very happy to be back. It ’s a fantastic course.
SARAH GWYNN: You ’ve had some great results here so what ’s the key to playing well on this course?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah I ’ve come close here in the past. I lost in a play-off to Martin Kaymer in 2009 and I ’ve had a couple of other top tens over the years. It's been given The Ryder Cup in a few years' time, as well, so that shows how strong a golf course it is.   You have to hit a lot of good shots.   You have to keep the ball in play, very straight.   It's all about hitting fairways and hitting greens around this golf course. 

Q.   Just sum up your preparations so far this week?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I hit a few balls yesterday afternoon.   Last time I played was the U.S. Open, which was pretty firm conditions.   But conditions similar to what I'm expecting here.   I don't think there's been a lot of rain so it's going to be pretty firm out there.   You'll have to have your best game with you I think.   It's obviously really hot.   So keeping hydrated is going to be important.

Q.   You've had some really good results here.   What's the key to playing this course well? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Hitting it straight, keeping it in play.   There's a lot of trouble out there.   You've got to drive the ball well, so you give yourself chances to attack the pins and have good distance control on your iron shots from the fairway, because it's tough to play this golf course out of the rough.   You tend to get a lot of flyers and it's difficult to control the ball, especially when it's firm. 

Q.   And how are you feeling with your game at the moment?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Good.   I'm hitting the ball well.   I've done some work with PING over the last couple of weeks and got some new equipment in, so looking forward to trying that out. 

Q.   What's the new equipment? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's a secret at the moment (laughter).   New set of irons.   New putter, really.   New driver. 

Q.   Why did you decide to come back this year?   After two years you were not here; what is the reason? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Just that I miss playing in the tournament, really.   It's a prestigious tournament and the golf course suits me.   I wanted to have a week off the week before The Open Championship this year, as well, so it's perfect for my preparation for that. 
SARAH GWYNN:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT