EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 16, 2016
Lee Westwood
Matthew Fitzpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Would you please tell us the story of a nice, handsome victory out there?  
LEE WESTWOOD: We played well.  We bogeyed the first and that was the only time we gave them a chance, really, and made six birdies after that.  Any time you're 5-under in foursomes, you can take some beating, we just kept the pressure on them all day.   
 Q.  Presumably after the start, you felt comfortable, at ease and the momentum was very much with you?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: Yeah, it wasn't a great first shot of the day for me personally, but after that, we were just very steady, fairways and greens, and that was the plan all along.  Stick to that and obviously come out on top.   
 Q.  There was a sea of red for awhile but looking very handsome for your team at the moment, isn't it?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, we turned it around well.  We expected the Asian team to come out strong today after losing 4 1/2 - 1 1/2 yesterday.  That's what they did and they got red back on the board but we managed to battle back and now there's more blue than red.  I think we have to try to win every day, rather than look at the thing as a whole.  If we can come out of every session winning, then we are obviously going to win the whole thing.   
 Q.  You don't play foursomes all that often.  How do you find the discipline working alongside Mr. Westwood here?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: It was brilliant.  For me, growing up watching him on TV; so to be able to play foursomes with him is unbelievable, and he was a great partner today.  Didn't really miss a shot.  To have that support is pretty impressive.   
 Q.  Do you still feel free to play your own game, even though you're looking at the man alongside you?  
MATT FITZPATRICK: Definitely.  He puts me in positions off the tee and on the green to play my own game and give it a go.  It was a good result in the end.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT