WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
May 1, 2015
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LEE WESTWOOD:   I'm pleased with the way I played and I got through.

Q.   Tell us about that one at 16.   You were making a mess of that hole.   All of a sudden you get out of that?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I was making a mess of the hole.   I thought I hit a good tee shot and it rolled around on the back of the bunker, and there was no sand in there, either.   And I tried to get it out quick and I just drove my hands in it a bit and got too much ball and not enough sand.

Q.   Earlier we talked about on the 10th hole your tee shot took a hop off the cart path and got me.   And like a good fan, okay, I said I want a signed glove.   I got a ball instead.   But I'll cherish this forever.   It says:   To Roger, hugs and kisses, Lee Westwood. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   There was a lot to hit, Roger.

Q.   Oh, you had to go there?   You going to play the fat card on me, now?   Nice going, good luck.
LEE WESTWOOD:   Sorry about that. 

Q.   Lee, there were so many turning points in that match.   I don't know whether to go to your birdie at the 15th or go to the chip in at 16 or just so many turning points.   The beautiful 2 on the card at 17.   Just a really fun match for me to watch. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, it was a fun match to play.   It could have gone either way.   There was more than one ending. 
Jordan played nicely.   Played as good as I expected him to play.   I upped my game.   I played nicely, as well. 
Then down the stretch there I had a good up and down on 13.   Jordan had a couple good up‑and‑downs on 13 and 14.   And it kicked in on 15, obviously, and I went on top of him for birdie.   I chipped in on 16 for par and then made a good birdie at 17.   It's about just making those putts from 12 feet at the right time and playing the holes well.

Q.   If anyone needed a lesson on the emotional swing possible in match play, just look at your and Jordan's play on that 16th hole.   It looked like you had the advantage, Jordan had the advantage, you don't give up and you chip in.   Crazy.
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, Jordan said on the 17th tee, if you'd have given me a choice of both drives in the air he would have taken my ball.   And it turns out he's got a 16, 17 footer for a win on the hole after I've chipped in, as well.   It unravels very quickly in match play, and you've got to strike when you've got the momentum. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT