TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
October 29, 2015
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A question I thought I would never ask, but tell us more about your hips that you were saying about the old disco hips.  Is that what you've been working on?  
LEE WESTWOOD: It's been sloppy winding up into the right side, really, not getting enough weight shift behind the ball so I can deliver the power at the right time.  I've been hitting the ball with no right side.  So I haven't been able to turn through it and stabilise the club head.  I'm trying to do the opposite of that.   
 Q.  You said something clicked.  Some good practise last week?  
LEE WESTWOOD: I just had a fun round of golf with Sam.  I did some work with Mike on Friday before I came out here and again on Tuesday, a little bit yesterday.  And in the gym, as well.  I've got an idea of how it's supposed to feel, so I can work on that.   
 Q.  You said the last month and a half, it's been going well.  Before that, your game, is it something that you and Mike found that you started working on or was it just --  
LEE WESTWOOD: I've had a feeling or an idea for what's been wrong for awhile.  But you know, sometimes finding something that you can relate to on the range, working on that and being able to take it on to the golf course; I felt like I found that a little bit.   
 Q.  You said it will be six weeks --  
LEE WESTWOOD: Six out of the next seven weeks.   
 Q.  Important to stay in the Top-50, isn't it?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I think so.  Everybody wants to be in the Top-50 to play in the big events.  You've seen how much it meant to Ian last week to go and play in Hong Kong at the last minute.  I was talking to G-Mac about it today.  Luke Donald, we were discussing that at Woburn.  Everybody wants to be in the Top-50 and qualify for the majors and the World Golf Championships.   
 Q.  Have you looked at the Ryder Cup yet -- is it all part of that Top-50?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Not really.   
 Q.  Do you not bother to check?  
LEE WESTWOOD: No.   
 Q.  Have you seen the rookies on the list at the moment -- what do you think about it?  
LEE WESTWOOD: People that check on that this time of year are the ones that don't make it.   
 Q.  Interestingly enough, you and Rory come in here with one win since May.  Yours was in April and his was in May.  He came in saying, I just want to put rounds together and I want to see some things happen, and I'd like to get out of these four weeks in a win.  Are you any different?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I mean, as a golfer, you'd like to win any week.  I know what he means.  He wants to try and build momentum.  That comes with shooting a low round and then putting another low round on the back of that and getting into contention and giving yourself a chance.  Hopefully finishing it off, but if you finish top three, then that gives you confidence for the following week and try and feed off that.   
 Q.  How important is this stretch of six for you to build on for next year?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, very important, obviously.  I said I want to play well and solidify my spot in the Top-50 in the world.  A good finish to the year will certainly give me confidence.  I haven't played very well this year at all, but it's not been a completely disastrous year by any means.  But I want next year to obviously be better.   
 Q.  Is today the best you've felt in a while sort of control-wise, ball-striking-wise?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it felt good.  Aimed at the flag a lot and could have holed two or three shots out there with my irons.   
 Q.  Taking the swing changes into account, not really a fresh start --  
LEE WESTWOOD: It's stuff I've worked on before.  But you know, just kind of a slightly different idea to give myself the same feeling as I got when I was playing well.   
 Q.  Best round of the year?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Probably lowest round of the year I would say, if you look at the score.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT