OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2015
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You must be very happy with your first week of the season.   Normally what you've done so far would put you in a real winning position.   Do you still think you're there?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, there's a possibility that I could be in the last group, so any time you're in the last group in a tournament, you feel you've got a chance to win.   You never know what's going to happen. 
I was pleased with the way I played today, arguably as good as I played on the first day.   Played really solid, one or two poor shots got very penalised, especially 9, I took a six there.   But all in all, first week of the year, I'm pleased with where all aspects of my game are at.

Q.   What's pleased you most?
LEE WESTWOOD:   The fact I've been competitive first week out after six weeks off.   Sometimes you can come out and feel like you're hitting the ball well and the scoring is not there.   It's like a footballer turning out after an injury and the commentators say he's not match fit.   That can happen in golf, as well.   You're just not kind of scoring fit and ready to get up‑and‑down when you need to and make that 5‑, 6‑footer when you need to.   I'm pleased with that.

Q.   Is what happened to Martin Kaymer in Abu Dhabi two weeks ago going to hang over every final round throughout the year?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I wasn't in Abu Dhabi and I didn't watch it.   I know he had a ten‑shot lead at some stage, but I've been ten behind somebody with nine holes to play and they have made a good putt on 17 to stay one in front.   Golf's a funny game and anything can happen out there. 

Q.   Low scores again tomorrow? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Golf course is getting harder.   The greens are getting firmer.   They are getting a little bit shiny.   There's a bit more breeze today than there was yesterday and the first day.   I believe there's going to be similar sort of conditions tomorrow.   There's still a 65 or a 64 out there but you've got to play well. 

Q.   I know this is an exaggeration but a word I feel I must use:   Is that a back nine that was life‑saving? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   It was nice, after making double at 9, it was nice to come around the back nine and make a few birdies and finish off strong with two birdies. 

Q.   Harder work out there, I take it. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Golf course played a lot harder today.   Conditions were a little bit more testing.   They let the greens firm up and get a bit shiny around some of the holes.   Flag positions were a little bit tougher. 
I thought the greens were slightly more difficult to read today.   The grain was less predictable because of the green conditions being so firm. 

Q.   The breeze is lovely as an observer but I take it that made a bit of a difference. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Probably seven‑ or eight‑, ten‑mile‑an‑hour wind out there.   That made it a little bit tricky.   I was a victim of that on the second shot on 9, I was in the semi rough and turned it over too much and the wind got it and took it into the water.   There are tricky shots out there, but certainly the wind made it no easier.

Q.   Not bad, is it, to be up in this position in the first event of the season?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I'm pleased.   I'm normally a slow start to the year.   I've had six weeks off, so wasn't sure whether my scoring would be there and I would be sort of match fit but all aspects of my game have pleased me this week so far.

Q.   You've seen so much happen in this game; what are your thoughts into the Sunday? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I haven't even looked at the scoreboard.   I don't even know how many I am behind.   I just looked and saw I might be in the last group, and you don't know what Rory is going to finish on. 

Q.   He was at 19. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, just come out tomorrow and just try and carry on with what I'm doing, sharpen all parts of my game, get a brew fakes here and there, roll in a few putts here and there, who knows what can happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT