OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 30, 2015
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   11‑under, sum it up, if you would?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, I haven't made a bogey yet.   That shows how solidly I'm playing.   Played the par 5s a lot better today, which I wanted to do after yesterday.   Played them in 4‑under which is fortunate.   Didn't birdie any other holes.   But hit it well.   Hit it close a few times. 
Just didn't really‑‑ I struggled on the greens a little bit with the speed of them.   I know they were talking about they were going to get quicker but I felt like they got slower.   I felt as the grass grew during the day, I found myself with a lot of into the grain putts which I struggled to get rolling into the hole. 

Q.   Today you played so well, and it was like the ball was afraid of the dark today.   I don't think you putted badly.   They just didn't want to go in. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, you get days like that.   The nice thing was I hit a lot of good putts, and just some days they don't go in; you misread the grain, doesn't take a lot to miss a putt.   It was nice to make the one on 15 for a par save, a nice 10‑, 12‑footer down the hill and that keeps your momentum going.   I was able to finish 1‑under for the last three holes.

Q.   We have this new fella on the block, Rory McIlroy; how do you beat this kid? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   You have to play very well for starters.   This golf course really sets up well for long hitters, which Rory is one of those.   But everybody's beatable.   At some point you're going to hit a bad shot and we all are, but I know I'm quite capable of shooting a lot under at the weekend, and I like my chances. 

Q.   Your thoughts on a second round 68 that keeps you bogey‑free over two days? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, you've pointed it out there.   Bogey‑free so far, so I'm playing solidly.   I've hit a lot of good shots, hit it close a lot.   Played the par 5s a lot better today.   Played them in 4‑under.   Short game's pretty sharp when I needed it to be, and I'm pleased with the way I played the first couple of days.   It's a good way to start the year.

Q.   Makes it solid, given it is the first tournament of the year?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, first time up, you don't know what to expect.   You don't know how you're going to come out of the winner break but I've come out of it pretty sharp and hitting the ball well.   I'm pleased with my total over the first two days and looking forward to a good weekend and getting into contention and hopefully winning. 

Q.   15th, important? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I hit a good tee shot.   I was trying to hold it up and I just held it up a little too much.   It was probably three yards left of where I wanted to land it and kicked down into the trap‑‑ or it's not a trap; it's a waste area and didn't have a particularly good lie, but played a good bunker shot about ten feet past the hole and then rolled it in.   Got a good read off my playing partner, Gary, and managed to roll it right in the center, so that was a nice momentum builder.

Q.   We suggested yesterday how good the greens are and how good the course is in in terms of conditions?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Certainly the course is in fantastic condition. There's not too many excuses for missing on these greens.   I think in the afternoon, they have obviously had all day to grow and the grain gets a little stronger so it's a little harder to read and it's maybe harder to get the ball running up the hole into the grain. 
But no, they are a beautiful surface to putt on and if you start it on the line you've picked out generally it's going to go in.

Q.   Did you get the memo about Pink Friday?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I did.   Is this not pink?   I thought it was off‑pink.   This is as close as I could get, sorry. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT