TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 15, 2014
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   An excellent round of 67, the highlight of which was holing your second shot at 7.   Tell us about that one. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I didn't hit a particularly good drive.   I carved it out to the right where the crowd walked, but then drew it around the trees that are on that hole and landed it on the slope just right of the hole.   Called for it to get in actually and rolled down the hill and went in.   So it's a good call, good shot.

Q.   Tell us what's pleased your most about your game over these three days. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I've been hitting the ball pretty solidly for a few weeks now.   Just getting the odd break, holing the odd putt to keep the momentum going.   I haven't really played the par 5s well enough the first couple of days.   Today I played them a bit better. 
All in all, I'm pleased with where my game's at.   It's coming along nice.

Q.   Give us your thoughts on tomorrow.   You're obviously right in the mix and looks like you'll be in the final group probably. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Obviously that was a nice putt to hole at the last to get in the final group, and then you can see what's going on in front of you.   That was an important one to make, and you know, I'll just go out there and enjoy it.   It's been a while since I've been in contention, but generally when I get in contention, I know what to do. 

Q.   What has been working so well this entire week?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Everything's been pretty good.   I've rolled a few more putts in.   Although I hit a couple of 3‑putts on the front nine today, the putter has been behaving nice and been getting the ball started on line; hence, making a few more.

Q.   How dangerous is the rough out here? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, the last couple of weeks it's been really thick.   Actually the last three week, CIMB, the HSBC last week and this week, been very penal and that's how it should be.   You should get penalised for hitting it off‑line and rewarded for hitting it straight. 
I'm driving the ball well.   My iron shots I've been hitting close and obviously the odd putt has been going in.   I holed a 9‑iron today, which sort of represents the way I've been hitting my iron shots.   Nice when they go in. 

Q.   Tomorrow, congested leaderboard with some very big names on the front, yours being one of them.   What is the mentality you have to take into tomorrow?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I'm just going to be enjoying being in contention really.   It's been a while since I've been up there, and I know what to do.   Just enjoy it and enjoy playing well again.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT