CIMB CLASSIC
October 31, 2014
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Not a bad day at all?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Good day.   Yeah, I played nicely, got off to a good start, birdied the first couple of holes, kept it going.   Obviously hit a great shot at 11, the rescue; that was the highlight of the round, went in the hole. 
You know, you need a bit of luck, but at the same time you gotta hit well and straight, so it happens now and again.   And went back out after the rain delay and birdied two of the last three and had a really good chance at 17 as well to about eight feet, so pleased with the way I finished, and 65 has got me right into the tournament.

Q.   This sounds like a dumb question, but were you trying to get it that close to the stick?   Were you aiming for there?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I was aiming towards 20 feet left of the hole and trying to hit a bit of a high cut because it was just too much club.   It just came out perfect.   It just shot out about 20 feet left and high fade and landed nicely on the ridge, and then it kicked a bit left and ran up there and went straight in the middle.   Just sometimes that happens.

Q.   Good vibes at this place, huh?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah.   I like the golf course.   You know, when I came here in April, I looked at it, played the pro am and thought, yeah, it sets up well for me, suits me.   It's always nice when you come back somewhere to have some confidence, and you know, off a win. 
Q.That 11th hole has tripped a lot of people up.   You have to be pretty bold, I guess, or is it just kind of short?
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's 226 yards today and into the wind, so you know, it's going to be one of the hardest holes on the golf course.

Q.   The level of belief that you have must be high after a round like that.   When you started slowly yesterday, you came right into a good round today?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah.   I got off to a slow start yesterday, 3‑over after five holes, and just had to be patient and try and resurrect the round and the day, and did that getting it level, hit it close a lot, left a lot of putts short.   Today I got the putts to the hole.

Q.   I believe that's your 15th professional hole in one?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I actually don't know exactly.   Someone asked me walking to the green how many I thought I'd had.   I think somewhere around 14, I think.   I'm not sure. 
You remember the ones that you won something for.   I had a hole of one in Germany once and won a bar of gold, and that's the only time I've ever won anything.   Occasionally there's been a bottle of champagne for a hole‑in‑one, but I remember pretty much where all of them are, but I'm sure I've forgotten one or two.

Q.   Possibility of being paired with Sergio tomorrow.   You had some good vibes going today. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah.   We enjoy playing together, so it will be nice to play with him again tomorrow.

Q.   And especially when two people are playing well. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, you bring each other on.   Yeah, you can feed off each other, yeah.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT