WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 30, 2015
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How would you explain how difficult it is to close out a match?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's never easy.   The pin position on the last quite severe.   It's the end of the day, the greens have been growing all day, very grainy, quite slow.   I didn't make a great stroke, but it's a tricky putt.   
   
 Q.   Friday is going to be really exciting with this new format.   You will play Jordan Spieth, kind of the old guy and the kid going at it.   And one of you is going to win and advance to the round of 16.   What are your thoughts on that match?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Jordan is playing really well at the moment.   Match play is a funny thing, especially over 18 holes.   It can be anybody's.   I played really good today.   I was 5, 6‑under par, and it was a good quality match.   I just ground away.  
   
 Q.   Convince me that your heart didn't skip a couple of beats a moment ago on the 18th.   Looked like we were heading to the 19th hole?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I thought we were going into extra holes, which is never a good thing.   It's a tricky pin position there on the last, and we both hit a short one.   I was fortunate to get through that one.  
   
 Q.   I'm really looking forward to this match coming up on Friday.   You're an experienced, world class player against Jordan who I think is playing as well as anybody in the world right now?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, it will be one of the matches of the day.   I think that's what everybody wants.   I'm looking forward to it.   Jordan is playing really well.   I played pretty good myself today.   So hopefully we can make a few birdies.  
   
 Q.   No need to look behind you at what everybody else is doing.   The winner of that match is into the round of 16.   That's the way you like it, isn't it?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   That's right.   You win or go home type of thing.   So we'll come out tomorrow and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Very tight match.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   It was pretty good.   After seven holes I was getting whomped, really.   I was still 3‑down through nine.   I made a few birdies on the back nine, though.   I was fortunate on the last.   That pin‑‑ I don't know if you have seen it there this week.   The ball was moving sideways at the end of the day.     
   
 Q.   With your experience, how do you react to that?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   What can you do?   He was playing well.   He wasn't missing anything.   Just try and put some pressure on him.   
   
 Q.   Jordan Spieth tomorrow.   14 birdies in two days.   He's on fire, how do you deal with that?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   I think I made 13, or maybe 14, myself.   So I feel like I can make a few birdies tomorrow.   He's obviously playing well.   He's obviously the hottest in the world at the moment.   But when you're favored, the pressure is all on you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT