WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 29, 2015
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We are with Lee Westwood, who was joking at the break that he hit three fairways, and did not play very well.   So how were you able to overcome it and get the victory today?  
    LEE WESTWOOD:   I played quite nicely.   It was a real struggle out there.   I scrambled well.   We both did.   It was the highest credit to golf ever.   We didn't see a lot of each other on the front nine.   It's probably a game that Matt thinks he should have won.   I feel very fortunate to win.  
   
 Q.   You got the win in Indonesia and then make the long trip over to the West Coast of the United States.   Perhaps a little bit tired or anything else you could probably contribute to the poor play?  
    LEE WESTWOOD:   A little bit tired, yeah.   About 3:00 every afternoon, I feel like falling asleep, so that's not the ideal conditions to play golf in.   The longer we go in the tournament, the better the jet lag will get.   We'll see.   I don't think a lot of people are going to play that well on this golf course.   It's really tough.   It's tough to hit fairways.   If you can scramble well, you can maybe get a run.   
   
 Q.   We all know that that wasn't your best stuff out there, but it was certainly effective?  
    LEE WESTWOOD:   It was.   Neither of us played particularly well, but we scrambled a lot and ground it out.   Sometimes to win a match play match you have to do that.   I guess I birdied three of the last four holes.   
    17 was playing tough and I missed from about six feet.   Matt hit a great shot in there, but I still won the hole.   I managed to scramble, so I'm fortunate to have won that game.   
   
 Q.   I think you give good fortune the chance to happen.   I looked at your round on 18 here.   I didn't know if you could reach the green.   You did receive a true bounce in the fairway, but you let the opportunity happen?  
    LEE WESTWOOD:   I was on the downslope.   It wasn't too bad a lie.   It looked like it might come out with a little hotness to it and run up there.   So the first bounce was great.   I was just trying to get it somewhere on the front of the green.   
   
 Q.   Well done.   You're an international golfer, and I always admire that you can travel and still not be jet lagged.   You win in Indonesia, you fly over here, and you win your first round?  
    LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, battling the 14, 15‑hour time change or something like that at the moment.   There's no substitute for caffeine in situations like that.   You've just got to get through it.   And I do feel a little bit tired towards the end of the afternoon, sort of nighttime kicking in in Asia.   
   
 Q.   Mikko next game?  
    LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, it will be a tough game.   He's a good player, obviously, he won the Portland match play last year at the London Club, I think it was.   So he's got a match play pedigree.   
    Every match out here will be tough to win.   There's 64 of the best players in the world playing here, and everyone is capable of playing well.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT