OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 29, 2015
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Very little sign of any rust out there today.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, there wasn't any.   That's one of the joys of living in Florida.   You get to play a lot of winter golf and remain sharp and I just tried to keep myself at the level I was when I finished up in Thailand at the end of last year and obviously working on a few things as well.   
After Thailand, I didn't pick a club up for ten, 12 days, to regain a bit of freshness, mental freshness more than anything.   Nice to come out this year with a nice balance of freshness, a bit of sharpness, as well.  
   
 Q.   That was a very important win in Thailand, wasn't it?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   It was.   It was the first time I had come out of a pack within one or two of the lead and shot a good score.   67 was a good round that last round and it was nice to win and give myself some confidence to take into Christmas and the new year, and then come out this year with that confidence but some freshness, as well.  
   
 Q.   To back it up as you did today, what were the keys today, would you say?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, I played well.   I hit a lot of good shots.   My iron shots were pretty sharp.   Putted nicely.   If I was being critical, I didn't make enough of the par 5s.   Birdied the 10th which was my first hole of the day.   
Feel like I'm swinging like I used to, more sort of late nine tees, 2000s, where I struggled to shape it right‑to‑left, and on a couple of the tee shots out there, 13 and 18, it required a pretty big hook and I struggled with that a little bit.   
So I'll probably go on the range this afternoon and try and factor that in a little bit when I need it.   But you know, I was pleased out there with the way I drove the ball.   I was able to aim down the left side and hit a power fade and my iron shots were sharp and I was hitting the ball a long way but at the same time, I had good chance control.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe your mental approach for the coming season?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Pretty relaxed, really.   I'm in a good frame of mind, very happy and pleased with where my game is at and the direction it's going in.   Delighted with the play I played today and my form on the greens.   I feel really solid, like I'm starting the ball online and rolling the ball at the hole in a good place, so all very good.  
   
 Q.   And pleased to be a page 3 fella?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, fortunately, I think I had my clothes on.   
   
 Q.   Not in the copy I saw.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Good that I lost a bit of weight over Christmas then (laughs).   
   
 Q.   What about all the hullabaloo surrounding your lifesaving skills?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, unlike the press to blow up anything out of proportion or sensationalise anything.   It wasn't quite as dramatic as the papers would have you believe.   I wasn't swimming through shark‑infested waters or killer jellyfish or anything like that, climbing over razor‑sharp coral.   I was laying on the sun bed nursing a hangover and I heard a gentleman sort of yelp out for help.   
Athletically, obviously, got up off the sun bed and pounced down the beach towards the sea and lifted him up over my head and carried him out of the water and brought him back to the water.  
   
 Q.   And then fed the sharks afterwards?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   I kicked their arses with my spare hand.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT