ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL
March 4, 2021
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you assess your round?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   It was good.  I didn't make a bogey, played really solidly.  Didn't, wasn't ever in too much trouble.  I missed a few chances, which you're going to do, if you give yourself a lot of chances, and generally it was a nice solid start to the week, just what you would want, really.
 Q. You played last week at the Concession, getting in your groove over here in America, kind of feel like the game's peaking now as we continue to go in this big stretch of golf?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, last week was a bit of an eye opener.  I haven't played on a golf course with that kind of severity of greens for quite some time.  And I struggled a little bit, I struggled mentally, really, to come to terms with some good shots finishing some 30 yards from the green.  And I let it get the better of me.
 But this week, a little bit more orthodox golf course and one that I played on in the past and I've got a pretty good idea and game plan of getting around it and that showed today.
 Q. Is that tough when you're playing, when you know you're playing all right last week, but some of those good shots don't end up where you wanted it?  You said it was kind of tough mentally.  How hard is that to just put that away and say, that's last week and just move along?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   You sit down and analyze it and that's the conclusion I came up with.  My scrambling wasn't very good either, I was 70th in scrambling, which I think was pretty much last.  So I worked quite a bit around the chipping green.  And it's a different kind of short game test around here.  You get some out of the rough and then you're not really playing up too many sharp banks if you don't miss it in the wrong areas.
 I chipped one in today from the back of the 10th and generally my short game is pretty good when I miss greens.  But I didn't miss too many.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT