THE RYDER CUP
September 27, 2014
Jamie Donaldson
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Tell us why this partnership has gelled so well.  What's been good about it?  JAMIE DONALDSON: I mean, foursomes golf, we just gelled really good.  We brought the best out of each other in foursomes which is the harder format.  We didn't quite gel as well in the four-ball, which is bizarre, really, because that's the easier format.  In foursomes, one bad shot and it's difficult to make pars. But we played really well together.  Hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, and made a few putts.  So overall, it was a really solid day.   Q.  5-under par through 17 holes, very good going.  Your 23rd point and inching ever closer to the all-time record of 25.  You must take a huge amount of pride in that personally.  LEE WESTWOOD: Obviously I'm pleased I've put so many European points on the board over the years but more proud that I've been on six winning Ryder Cup sides.  Somebody's just told me I've gone past Seve's total, so that means a lot.   Q.  Why have Europe had the better in this format the last couple days?  What's your theory?  JAMIE DONALDSON: I just think the team getting on so well together.  Everybody just seems to work harder for each other maybe.  Everybody seems to play really well in foursomes and the boards are showing it.   LEE WESTWOOD: It's never is easy to win a point in The Ryder Cup.  Saturday afternoon is a big time and we want to go out there and try to put as much blue as we can on the board and managed to do that.   Q.  You've got Lee Westwood on your shoulder, he has showed in previous Ryder Cups with the likes of Colsaerts and Kaymer, he takes rookies under his wing and he's a good man to have on board.  JAMIE DONALDSON: You could say that.  We gelled really well in the foursomes matches we played.  We played pretty decent this morning but not quite well enough.  But in foursomes we seem to bring out the best in each other.  We played really solid yesterday and today.  Very happy.   Q.  I know you're playing for Europe and it's a team game but to get 23 Ryder Cup points, overtaking Seve, that must mean something.  LEE WESTWOOD: It does, obviously, quite emotional, he was special to everybody and to go past his total means a lot.   Q.  Talk about going out first for Europe in the foursomes and you put that all-important point on the board straightaway.  JAMIE DONALDSON: We played nicely, got off to a decent start.  We seem to bring out the best in each other in the foursomes.  We played lovely yesterday and great today, so, yeah, very happy with the way we played.   Q.  Quite a bit of up in there, some tricky up-and-downs for both of you.  LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, you have to do that in foursomes golf.  You're not going to hit every green, and you have to scrap every now and again, and we're good at that; we're a pair of scrappers.   Q.  How is Europe looking at the moment?  JAMIE DONALDSON: I think we're looking pretty good up there.  A lot of blue and one all-square.  The team is playing nicely.   Q.  Talk about the atmosphere here.  LEE WESTWOOD: The reception we got on some greens was incredible.  The British crowds are always fantastic, and you know, when it's the Ryder Cup, they really get behind us and it's like having a 13th man.   Q.  And after your defeat this morning, were you fired up to come out and put a point on the board?  LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, every credit to Paul for having the confidence to send us out again.  It was a ballsy move, and he knew we played foursomes well yesterday afternoon and we've done it again today  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT