DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Your best finish since The Open Championship, how nice to finish the season on a high.
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, it was good to finish the season properly.   I played nicely again today.   It was a good weekends, 64, 68. 
Just really looking at it simply, you can't have three‑‑ well, one average putting round, two poor ones and still plan on winning tournaments out here.   I've only had one good putting day this week.   So going to have to work on that through the winter and hopefully come out quick next year.

Q.   How do you feel about the way you're swinging it?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, it's all right.   Bad shots are not that bad so that's normally a good representation of how I'm swinging it.

Q.   Continue to work with Sean Foley? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I think so.   It feels pretty comfortable.   Out there it wasn't so easy today, even though the scoring is quite low.   Coming in it was quite windy.   17 is no pushover today with a 4‑iron.   There were some tricky shots. 

Q.   How are you feeling about your round today? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I played well.   68 I thought was a decent score out there today without really making too many putts.   I hit the ball nice and gave myself lots of chances. 

Q.   And your best of the four rounds over this week? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Was yesterday.   Shot 65 yesterday.   So you know, it was a good weekend.   The time to score low was over the first two days I thought. 

Q.   For you what's been the most memorable part of the season this year?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Coming close at The Open Championship I think was the most memorable part.

Q.   Plans and goals for next year?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Hopefully to keep improving.   That's what you've got to plan on doing, keep doing and hopefully win a few more tournaments next year.

Q.   And what do you plan on working on the most in your game?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, I think you've got to work on all of it.   So I'll be working on all my game over the winter.

Q.   What's your verdict?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I played quite nicely, my best finish since The Open Championship, so not too bad at all.   15‑under par is a decent total.   I didn't putt well enough on three of the days.   I putted okay yesterday.   But I've struggled and gave up a lot of birdie chances.

Q.   Certainly had your opportunities coming into the final day. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, sort of, but Henrik is playing that well.   You never expected him to shoot much more than sort of 68.   It was a tricky day out there, and getting to 20‑, 21‑under par was always going to be difficult.

Q.   You mentioned the man who is going to wrap up the title as Europe's No. 1.   Give us an appreciation of how well he's played?
LEE WESTWOOD:   He's played incredible, especially the second half of the suspect.   He's been there or thereabouts every week, and in the biggest tournaments.   Yeah, that's how golf is when you get on a run. 

Q.   Clearly he's a guy that's got the right application and the right ability, not only technically but up here, as well, when he's playing his game?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, well, he's come back from adversity, hasn't he.   You've got to think that he has it pretty solid between the years.

Q.   You can speak from experience.   You did that. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, it's never easy.   You have your doubts, so you do have to be mentally very strong.

Q.   What's next for you?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Tiger's tournament at Sherwood, and then the Shark Shootout in Naples and then Christmas off and then start up again at the farmer's in San Diego next year.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT