DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   7‑under par through 11 holes, then three missed putts in a row, and 1‑under for the last four with a good par at the last.   How would you sum the day up? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I mean, I got in my own way a little bit around the back nine there.   65 obviously puts me in with a better chance than I had going off this morning.   Yeah, it's a decent round.

Q.   Five Top 10s in a row sort of April, May time, third at The Open and quiet since, what's been going on? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Just not been playing well, not been hitting it close and not been making anything.   And haven't played much. 

Q.   Any particular reason why you're not playing well?   Do you feel your swing isn't in sync? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Hasn't been in sync all year, really.   Sort of been fumbling my way around the golf course, and it's something I'm going to work on over the winter.

Q.   You've won a Race to Dubai and an Order of Merit.   How do the pressures compare to trying to win those to pressures that compare to trying to win a tournament?
LEE WESTWOOD:   You shouldn't really think about the long term of winning the Money List.   You should be thinking about winning the tournament and that takes care of itself.   So just really, the pressures of trying to win a big tournament that means a lot. 

Q.   What's your verdict on a 65 today?
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's a good 65 but 7‑under through 11, looking for a few less than that, but you know, it's a good round of golf around this golf course.   It's never easy.

Q.   And 7‑under through 11, are you thinking, bigger things? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, I mean, there's a par 5 there that is a driver and a 4‑, 5‑iron and a drivable par 4, and I hit it close on the‑‑ I didn't mind too much bogeying the 12th.   That's a difficult hole. 
But I hit it close on the next hole, 13, and I hit it close on 16 and missed both of those, and I had a chance on 17. 
18 is a bit of a tricky drive.   You know, sort of my jury is out on whether‑‑ it's not a great hole off the back and it's not a great hole off the front tee.   You know once you've got sort of to the second shot or third shot, then it becomes a good hole.   But 65 was a nice, steady round of golf.   I hit it close a lot.

Q.   I'm sure you stay in the present, but did thoughts go back to when you tamed the course on victory here? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Not really, no.   I sort of got in a bit of groove and started hitting it close.   I could easily have holed my second shot at 11.   I don't know how that missed.   Have to see that on TV.   Must have lipped‑out one side or the other.   No, I played well and I gave myself a lot of chances.

Q.   Clearly the leaders still have a lot of time out on the course, but what are your thoughts on your position into the Sunday?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, I'll be off a lot later tomorrow, so I can keep an eye on the leaders.   But, you know, I would expect if the guys are playing well, to make plenty of birdies on the back nine.   There are lots of chances out there. 

Q.   Put this down as a decent day's work, I'm sure. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, very good.   65 is a good score around this golf course.

Q.   And what were the keys was that‑‑ obviously you got off to a flying start there. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I made a good par at the first and rattled off a few birdies in a row hitting it close, rolling a few putts in in that five‑ to ten‑foot range that I've been missing the first two days, and that got me some momentum. 

Q.   As well as you've played in a while, would you say?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I played all right.   I wouldn't say I felt like I had total control but my iron shots were certainly close to the flag plenty of times out there.

Q.   So that means things are moving in the right direction, which is a nice feeling, isn't it, when you wanted to sign off the year on a high? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I can build on the momentum that this week has given me.

Q.   How are you looking forward to tomorrow now that you have the opportunity potentially of getting into the mix? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, I could have a chance but the leaders have got nine holes to play.   So, you know, depending on what they finish on will determine how good a chance or how bad a chance.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT