ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2020
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your second Rolex Series victory, tell us how you're feeling.
LEE WESTWOOD: Fantastic, really. Ecstatic, elated, a bit emotional. Just great to keep playing well, really, and you know, still good enough.
Q. Tommy Fleetwood was climbing through the field, really trying to celebrate his birthday today. How much were you trying to keep him in check?
LEE WESTWOOD: I was trying not to look at leaderboards. I peaked at a few on the way around the back nine and I could see that Victor shot 9-under and Tommy had not 9-under and finished 17. Fitz didn't look like any better than 17.
Just tried to par in when I was 19-under, so I just tried to do that. Bogeyed 16, but it was a nice, solid birdie at the last and hit two good shots on 17, as well. Some quality golf.
Q. This marks your 23rd European Tour win and you join a very elite group of players who have won over four decades. Quite an accomplishment?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it is. It's a long time when you say it. I won my first tournament in 1996 in Sweden. I won that tournament, Scandinavian Masters in three different decades, and now won here this week. 20s could be the ones for me.
Q. You had a good break in Thailand, but you've been working hard at the driver and putting. Which area of the game are you happiest with this week?
LEE WESTWOOD: I was happy with all of it. I've been working hard in the gym. I've had some good time off. I've relaxed, settled my mind and rested, rested that space between the ears.
Been driving the ball well. PING set me up a new driver in Dubai the end of last year and got used to that and I've driven the ball fantastically well. Everything was good. Iron shots were good. The putting was very good this week, so long may this continue, because I think when I start rolling a few putts in, I'm competitive most weeks.
Q. Will you get a chance to celebrate later?
LEE WESTWOOD: Dry January. I promised myself when I came back from Thailand, I wouldn't have a drink until after Saudi, so be on the sparkling water.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT