PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round today and how the conditions may have changed versus yesterday. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, it's a lot dryer today obviously.   The course dried out quite considerably to when we played it yesterday morning.   Obviously there's a bit more wind, which makes this golf course a lot trickier. 
You won't see the low scores today.   It's a good test out there.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, hopefully, you know, you don't know where the leaders are going to be at the end of the day. 
I played with Jonas Blixt and he is 6‑under.   He could quite conceivably be leading at the end of the day.   That would only be three off the lead.   You don't know what's going to happen in the last round of a major.
Even if it's more than that, you saw what happened when I had the lead in the last major and Phil was four, five behind.   So anything is possible on the Sunday of a major.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I can't say I wasn't delighted to see a bit of a breeze blowing this morning.   I didn't want to go out throwing darts out there again.   I wanted it to have some teeth to it really.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Not in somebody's back pocket on the fly.   I mean, I put (indiscernible).   These trousers are a bit tight.   I couldn't get a card and a pencil in my back pocket, never mind a golf ball.   So he's doing well to catch that on the fly in his back pocket, that gentlemen.   I think the Yankees ought to sign him up.

Q.   Did you have a number in mind? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Not really.   Just as low as possible.   I figured with the conditions if I shot somewhere around 67, you know, it might give me a chance going into tomorrow.   It didn't feel very easy out there, felt tricky.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Game has been great all week other than a poor finish yesterday, which you can't really afford to do in major championships, give shots away like that. 
My game is a strong game, getting better every day.   I'm pleased with the work I'm doing with Sean and feel like I'm getting more control on the golf ball.   And the work I'm doing on the greens as well, I feel like I'm putting a good roll on it.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I'm definitely hitting the ball better than I was at Murfield.   Obviously I didn't putt as well as I did at Murfield this week, but another Sunday and another chance. 

Q.   I know Jonas is not a member of the European Tour yet? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   No.   He is.   He's joined.   We were talking about that coming down 18.   He was asking me what I was playing towards the end of the season.   He was asking what the qualifications are for being a European Tour member.   I said you want to join anyway, because if you don't then you can't ben on the Ryder Cup team.   The way he's played today, he would be a valuable member. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT