THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  LEE WESTWOOD:  I think, yeah, it feels like 1-over par is
a decent score.  It was tricky out there this afternoon.  It got
interesting on the greens.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:  Quite lovely, yeah.  Put quite a few in,
so hopefully I can keep that going.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:  I made it from 15 feet, that was easy.  18
was tricky.  14 was really tricky.  I think in the afternoon they
just got a bit shiny over the holes, with the walking and baking
out with the wind and the sun.  It's not easy to get it in there.
You've made 40 and 50-footers all day trying to roll it up dead
and they're crusty around the holes.  I thought I left it 10 feet
short on 13, and it went 16 feet past, so I was 26 feet out on
feel.  So that tells you when the greens are getting tricky.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:  It was fine and fair.  If you play well,
there's a good score out there for you.  A Major championship you
don't have to be aggressive the first couple of days you play your
way in and make sure you're in on the weekend and see what
happens.  Last time people scored well on Saturday morning and put
themselves right in it.
Championship golf is like that, sometimes it's not fair
to everybody.  It's very difficult to make a golf course like
that.  I thought it was still scorable out there.  I would say
that 1-under par is a great score out there this afternoon, and if
if I'd have played well, I could have shot 1-under quite easily.
Q.  Sergio made the point that (inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:  I don't think they'll pay too much
attention to what Phil says, The R&A.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:  They'll make it hopefully the same for
them in the afternoon, as we had it today in the afternoon.  It
will be a bit more receptive in the morning and toughen up as the
day goes on.  Generally that's how all our tournaments go.  And
Open Championship golf is no different.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:  I didn't hit the ball very well.  I didn't
drive it very well, which accounted for most of my bogeys.  Putted
fantastic, rolled some really nice ones in.  No complaints.  No
complaints.  It could have been a lot worse than 72.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:  I just wear what I'm told.  In a fashion
sense you should be very, very quiet.









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT