BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It's a day that started absolutely brilliantly; what happened? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, you know, I said yesterday and the day before, I'm struggling in my swing a little bit at the moment.   You know, when you're in the last round, it just gets found out.   I don't feel like I've got much room and it feels very trappy and handsy, and I'm having to find it a lot.   The main problem is, I haven't got a safe shot, so I can't aim up one side and turn out on to it and see it fade.   Tried do that on 11 and 12 and went straight left on me twice.   It's just something I'm keep working on.
Short game was good, gave myself a few birdie chances and eagle chance at the last.   Struggled a little bit on the greens.   Started jumping around a bit.

Q.   If there was a turning point, it seemed like it might have been the sixth tee shot; something spooked you there, a camera clicked?
LEE WESTWOOD:   A camera went off but that wasn't it.   It was more the second shot, how far the 8‑iron went but you know when it's like when you're trapping and you have got to flick your hands at it, and sometimes you shut loft down on it and it goes a bit further, and is that there was a case of it doing that, and it carried ten yards further than it should have done. 

Q.   And the short game, that helped all the week, just let you down on a couple of occasions, but seemed like the 6th and the 7th was the turning point and then you hit back straightaway at the 8th. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   It didn't really let me down.   I played some good chips down there and some good pitches.   It was a tough chip on 6 because I had that spike to come over.   3‑putted 7.   It was a nice chip; pitch at 11, and then I missed from three feet.   Nice bunker shot at 12 and I missed from four feet.   So wasn't really the short game.   The short game was sound.

Q.   And the driver, what happened with the driver?   You said it got trappy and you tried to save it. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   It was like that all the way through my golf swing.   It can be a bit deceptive sometimes making three birdies in the first four holes, but still didn't feel quite right, the ball wasn't going as far as I wanted it to.   My distance control was poor.   But I've been around long enough that I can fiddle it and work it like that.   But when you want to play flat out and just trust your swing, it's just not there at the moment. 

Q.   Doing 80 per cent practise on the short, is that the problem?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Not really.   I feel like I've been swinging it very good for a while, and having not worked on my long game and kept the timing in with that, then it's obviously gone off a little bit more.   So it's just a case of finding a few keys to get a bit of width back and penetration with the iron shots.   Just a bit frustrating because the rest of my game is pretty good.

Q.   Given that, were you pleased you're in contention at all this week, given what you said coming in?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I was pleased I was in contention.   I had a sniff at winning.   I got to 11‑under and 10‑under is playing off.   So it's not all bad.   But, you know, it's the sort of thing where, you know, I feel like if I was hitting it well, I should be winning a few tournaments, really. 

Q.   After 5, did you sense‑‑ were you confident, or did you think, something at the back of your mind, telling you, this could go wrong?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, no, not really.   I have to play a cautious game when I haven't got much control.   So aim away from flags and pressure does that when you're under pressure, then your timing, you have to rely on good technique and my technique's not sound at the moment.   It's very handsy like I said and a bit flicky, and I'm just having to find it a lot.

Q.   How much time do you think you need to find it again? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I don't know.   Might come back like that.   It's swing mechanics more than anything.   So I just have to slow it down.   I haven't really had a chance to look at it recently.   Might go home and do that properly.

Q.   Is that something you'll do on your own? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I don't know, that's what I'm contemplating, whether to go and see somebody again.   I haven't seen somebody for a while now and maybe I just need a professional opinion on it, another set of eyes looking at it, but I'll decide that.

Q.   What's next, tournament‑wise?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Memorial next week.

Q.   Play Memorial?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, looking forward to it.   Haven't been back there for a long time.

Q.   Just put this out of your mind and crack on again?
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's not really in my mind.   It's not like I've 3‑putted the last or something like that.   I know the swing faults are there.   It's just what happens, isn't it.   If you're under pressure and you want to fall back on good technique and you haven't got it, you pay the price.   It's not like I'm upset or anything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT