THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How important was it to get off to a great start like you did?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, well, I got off to a‑‑ well, a slowish start yesterday.   I felt like I could have been 2‑under after 2.   But then I had a lot of patience and then birdied three of the last four holes last night, and then wanted to come out today and get off to a quick start and build on last night's finish.   Unfortunately I missed from about four feet at the 10th hole, my first, but then fortunately I went eagle‑birdie‑birdie and got right into the round and the tournament.   I was pleased with the way I played.   I'm pleased with the way I played over the first couple of days, no bogeys, really solid stuff, hit a lot of fairways and hit a lot of greens, and when I've needed to I got up‑and‑down.

Q.   How did the course play this morning as opposed to yesterday afternoon?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, in the morning there's a little less breeze, although it wasn't flat calm this morning.   It's a little bit more scorable.   Obviously the greens are a little bit softer early on, but it's starting to firm up out there, and I would imagine it would be very tricky at the weekend. 

Q.   You're right on the top of the leaderboard.   What do you do between tonight and tomorrow's round? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I'll go on the range and just hit a few balls and try and keep my swing in sync and do a bit of putting and a bit of chipping but not more than that.   It's a bit warm and it's a long week, this, so you just try and conserve energy.

Q.   Over two days is this the easiest this course has ever played?
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, I don't think so.   I've played here before I think I was 10‑under after two rounds.   When there's no breeze around here and it's soft, then you can score, but I wouldn't say it was by any means easy out there.   You have to play well and hit a lot of fairways so you can attack the flags. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT