THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MIKE WOODCOCK:  We have the third-round leader with us,
Lee Westwood.
Lee, that was a fantastic 1-under par round today.  That
gives you a two-shot lead going into the final round The Open
Championship.  Can you give us your thoughts on your round today,
please.
LEE WESTWOOD:  I played nicely.  I didn't hit too many
bad shots.  I controlled well once I hit it well.  I made some
good saves.  Short game was sharp.  Made some nice putts.
MIKE WOODCOCK:  That sounds very simple.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Try to keep it as simple as possible.
Q.  Great day's work today, Lee.  You were in a high-pressure
situation, until you get going again tomorrow.  May I ask what you
might do tonight to take your mind off things?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, actually I'm not in a high-pressure
situation, because I'm going to go have dinner, and I'm so good
with a knife and fork now that I don't feel any pressure at all.
(Laughter).
I'll think about winning The Open Championship tonight at
some stage, I'm sure.  I don't see anything wrong with that,
picture yourself holding the Claret Jug at the final tee and
seeing your name at the top of the leaderboard.  When it comes to
tee off around threeish, I should be in the same frame of mind as
I was today.  I didn't feel any pressure today and felt nice and
calm out there and in control of what I was doing.
Q.  You were interacting a lot with the crowd, particularly
around 13.  How important will the fans be for you tomorrow, the
crowd?
LEE WESTWOOD:  I was interacting with them all day.
Obviously trying to give them as much to cheer for as possible.
They were giving me good feedback.  It's obviously great to play
in an Open Championship in front of the crowds that they get here
and I always get a good reception.  It's nice to play well and
hear those roars.
Q.  I'm wondering how bad your lie was on 16 after the first
shot, and if it was a big boost to get out of there with only a
bogey?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, that was probably the biggest
momentum thing I did all day, probably, walk off there with a
bogey.  It was probably one of the few bad shots I hit all day.  I
was trying to hit a hard fade in there and just pulled it, and it
found the worst lie I've found all week.  There's so many bad
things that could have happened from there, if you would have said
you can have a 4, I would have taken it.  Looking at the lie, it
had gone down right down to the bottom in a bit of the hole.  And
there weren't many options -- well, not good options, anyway.  I
was pleased to make 4.  But that's what's been missing, making
those putts.
And backing it up with a birdie at the next, those are
the sorts of things you need to do.
Q.  You've had your handful of close calls and chances in
Majors and been there.  I wonder what you will draw from those
tomorrow?  And how much better equipped do you think you are from
having gone through those times?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, I've had lots of chances, sometimes
I've played well, other times I've played not to well.  Although I
can't remember playing that poorly.  Obviously I had a chance at
Turnberry in 2009.  I missed up a bit.  That can fall back on, you
know, just getting out of the zone, worrying about what other
people were doing and not focusing on my own game.
But you know, I have had lots of chances.  I felt like I
played well when I had a chance at the Masters, and felt like I
had a great round.  Hit good shots, probably one of the shots of
the year out of the trees there.
So I know what it takes.  Even though I haven't won a
Major, I know what it takes to win one.  It's just a case of going
out there tomorrow and having the confidence in my game, which
I've got.  And putting it to the test.
Q.  Have you ever putted as well as this over a period of
three or four days, three days?  And what will you be having for
dinner tonight?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Normally pass dinner -- just to recharge,
but I might go the Andy Murray route and have 50 pieces of sushi
or something like that.
I've won 40 times, you don't not putt well winning that
many.  I putted nicely this week.  I've got a key that I'm
thinking about and I'm rolling the ball well.  It's starting on
the line that I pick, which is nice to see.
Q.  You mentioned on TV that something that players don't
like to say, but try and treat tomorrow as it is just another 18
holes.  Can you expand on that, how you try to treat the process.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, like I said earlier, you try and
picture yourself winning The Open Championship tonight, but forget
about it tomorrow and go and tee off down the first, and focus on
it in the middle of the fairways with the first tee shot and then
go from there.  The way this golf course is set up, it is a very
strategic golf course.  You have to plot your way around it.  Most
Major championships are like that.  They grind you into the
ground, even your game plan, and the way you attack the golf
course.  It tests that to the limit, as well, not just the way
you're playing.  Mentally and physically it's draining, and you
just have to focus on the job at hand, and pile the pars up and
try to make birdies wherever you can.
Q.  That fantastic putt at the 5th, that rattled in, did you
intend it to go that pace?
LEE WESTWOOD:  I intended it to go in (laughter).  I was
aiming for the hole.
Q.  I understand that, yeah.
LEE WESTWOOD:  But, no, I hit two good drivers to get to
there.  I don't know how many people have knocked it on the green
on two.  I left it in a good spot.  It was one of those putts with
it being so obvious, I faded it up the hill and it would come
down, and it would probably finish somewhere near.  It's nice to
see.  It's a bonus when those go in.  You get it on line and get
it the right speed, every now and again they do go in.
Q.  How does that round compare with your all-time best
putts?
LEE WESTWOOD:  It was nice to hole, after bogeying the
third and making a good par on 4, it was good to get some momentum
going.
Q.  Obviously this Scottish weather is identical to Florida
when you lived over there.  How significant do you think that move
to the States was?  And are you now reaping the benefits of it?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Little did I know when I moved to Florida
that I was acclimatizing for The Open in Scotland (laughter).  I'm
just too smart for myself.
Obviously it would be daft to move the whole family to
Florida for four tournaments; I wouldn't do that.  But we decided
for other reasons just to change, to go and live in Florida.  But
I'd hoped that living in that kind of climate and having access to
great golf courses and faster greens and stuff like that and
practice facilities, that it was going to help my game.  And so
far this year I've contended -- you pick out the big tournaments,
which so far for me this year, the Masters, The Players, the U.S.
Open and the PGA Championship at Wentworth, I've contended in all
of them.  And now The Open Championship.  So you'd have to say
it's worked to a certain extent in a positive way for my game.
Q.  You mentioned Andy Murray there, inadvertently, are you
aware of the expectation, that it's been another Great British
sport that the nation is now looking to tomorrow as another
highlight?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Hopefully I can give it.  But the pressure
comes from the expectation I put on myself, not -- I was trying to
explain earlier on to somebody, that I don't really live my life
outside in.  I don't live it and run it according to what other
people think.  I live it the other way around.
So I have my own ideas and my own dreams and my own
plans.
Q.  Of the three men under par, I believe all three of you
have relationships with Sean Foley.  How does he get split up on
the practice tee tomorrow?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, he's taken the chickens out and gone
back to Florida, I believe, this morning.  So you won't see him on
the range tomorrow.
Q.  You said you weren't fazed at all today and you felt
completely calm.  It was a high-pressure situation, whatever you
say.
LEE WESTWOOD:  I didn't feel any pressure out there.
Q.  Have you felt that comfortable before, when it's been a
situation like this?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Probably not, no.  But I guess it's
hitting 40 and being on that decline, and just enjoying being in
that situation, you know.  You stand on the range and work hard to
try to get into position to win Major championships.  So when
you're in there with a chance and contend, you might as well enjoy
it while you're there, or the hard work is not worth it.
Q.  The fact that you were able to outscore Tiger by two
shots, that must give you a lot of confidence?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, I figured if I was going to win this
tournament, I was going to have to beat Tiger.  It generally works
like that, whatever tournament you're playing in that he's playing
in.  That wasn't my primary goal for going out.  It was to try to
make as many birdies as possible and get as far in front.  But I
have a good relationship with Tiger and I enjoy playing with him.
And I tend to feed off how good a player he is.  I think my recent
record with playing him in Major championships is very good.
Q.  After Justin Rose won the U.S. Open, he said that Adam
Scott had told him that this is our time to start winning these
tournaments.  Have you drawn any inspiration that those two
players broke through this year to win their first Major?  And has
anyone suggested to you that this is your time?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Not really.  Apart shouts from the crowd,
"This one is yours."  No, I think there's been a lot of first-time
winners.  I think that shows the strength and depth of golf at the
moment.
I've contended for a lot of Major championships.  If I'd
have done the right things at the right times and just a couple of
things had gone my way, this wouldn't be my first Major
Championship win, if I do that tomorrow.  I've had lots of
chances.  I could have won four with just the right things going
my way.
So those are the things you feed off.  And you try and
put -- you try and learn from the things you did wrong and change
them, and obviously do them right and put that into practice
tomorrow.
Q.  You mentioned winning 40 times around the world.  As the
Majors have gone past and chances have slipped by, have you ever
allowed yourself to think, maybe it won't happen for me?
LEE WESTWOOD:  It's not the end of the world if it
doesn't.
Q.  We've talked a bit about all the near misses, does this
one feel differently in any way?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Not really, no.  I'm playing well again in
a Major championship, testing myself.  And I'm giving myself a
chance to win one.  It feels the same as it did in 2008 playing at
Torrey Pines.  It feels the same as Turnberry, feels the same as
the Masters.  It's enjoyable, it's where you want to be.
Q.  No feeling that it might turn out differently?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, I'm hoping so.  I'm hoping it's
going to turn out differently because I haven't won one yet and
I'd like to win one.  But what can you do?  You can only do what
you think is right and put all that practice and hard work you've
done tomorrow, try not to get in your own way mentally and just
focus on the job at hand and believe you're good enough.
Q.  Were there any issues, firstly with the slow play this
afternoon?  And secondly, do you think young Sam behind me is
going to be a good omen?  I believe he was in Scandinavia last
year when you won.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, we got put on the clock.  I'm not
really sure why.  It's just one of those things.  There's a lot
going on out there.  There's a lot of people inside the ropes.
You have to back off it now and again.  And I think we slipped
four minutes out of position.  We were both chuckling about it,
about like two old ladies, we had to wait.  And it's part of this
thing, they're enforcing faster play.  That was just one of them
things.
Hopefully Sam is a good omen, yeah.  He's been to one
tournament, this is his second one, walking around.  I won that
one by five or six -- five.  He'll probably send me an invoice, if
I win tomorrow, won't he?  Pay him a commission.  (Laughter).
MIKE WOODCOCK:  Thanks very much.  Best of luck tomorrow.
Well played.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Thank you.


  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT