WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Are you ailing? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, I've got a bit of a chest infection, so I'm battling against that.

Q.   Is that like a cold essentially, when you say chest infection? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I've just got a chest infection.

Q.   Phlegm, kind of‑‑
LEE WESTWOOD:   I'm not a doctor.   Well, I am a doctor actually, but not a medical.

Q.   Does life really begin at 40?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I hope so.   I'll tell you in a few years.

Q.   How was that birthday celebration? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   It was good.   We had a good party from what I can remember and people keep telling me.

Q.   Do you feel any different now? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Nope, no different.

Q.   Can you talk about your round and how you feel your confidence level is going into the weekend? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I played solidly.   Got off to a good start on the 10th, my first.   Three‑putt from about 15 feet on 12 which was a bit unfortunate.   I had a couple of different grasses to come over, but then just played really nicely for the rest of the round. 
Hit it in the water twice at 7 and made a good 6, but other than that, it was solid all day.

Q.   Solid on the greens and good putting today? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I gave myself a lot of chances.   I normally do, and I made a few, so it's a good way to play around this golf course.

Q.   What is it about this layout that seems to suit your eye?   You've posted two very good rounds out here. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I don't know.   I've always played well here.   I played nicely last year and finished fifth.   I guess you get rewarded for hitting it straight and penalized for missing it off line.   Normally the greens are very firm.   You have to think your way around and position the ball.   This week you can be a little more aggressive because it is softer.

Q.   Do you guys feed off each other a little bit out there with Lucas and Zach also playing well and getting low numbers out there? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Certainly helps when everybody in the group is playing well.   You're seeing good shots all the time, and you get the feeling that the course is giving up birdies and isn't playing quite as hard as it might be.

Q.   Did you consider withdrawing at all earlier this week based on the green conditions? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, no.   I mean, I like this golf course way too much.   It's a lot of money that we're playing for and a title at the end of the day.   Somebody's going to say a speech and thank everybody and thank the greens keeper and Wells Fargo for putting up the cash at the end of the week, and somebody's going to be happy with the way the course is set up.

Q.   How bad are you feeling right now?   If you weren't playing, would you be home in bed?   Is it that bad? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, not too bad.   I just won't do too much practice this afternoon.   I'll just go back to the room and lie down, really.

Q.   The greens rolling better today than they were yesterday? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   The greens were strange.   They got slower as the day went on, I thought.   First thing this morning they sort of took me by surprise how quick they were.   Normally the greens get fast as the day goes on.   Today they got slower.   It was quite a shock from playing yesterday afternoon to coming out this morning and seeing the ball roll a little bit quicker.

Q.   This is where Billy got hurt last year.   Have you been able to maintain a friendship with him? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I've spoken to him a few times.   He's still trying to get fully fit, I think.

Q.   Is he not caddying yet? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, if he was fully fit, I think he'd be out here caddying, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT