MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your day. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Solid day.   I did what I needed to do with the conditions, in the conditions.   I played solidly.   I hit it in the right places a lot of the time.   Didn't hit it in the wrong places very often.   Just once on the 5th in the trap. 
And I was plodding my way around the golf course like you have to when it gets tricky around here.

Q.   Considering the start you had are you surprised to be this close to the lead or was it that tricky a day where it all was going to come back?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Just feels like that kind of day and that kind of week where nobody's going to run away.   It's a difficult golf course to shoot really low on and if you can just keep plodding away and picking up the odd birdie now and again, not making too many mistakes, obviously double bogeys are a killer and I had one on the first hole yesterday, but I didn't have one today. 
Then the other thing today I didn't play the par‑5s quite as well.   I hit in the middle of the fairway on 2, didn't make birdie.   Hit it in the wrong spot there. 
13 and 15 I felt like I should have birdied.   But you're going to feel like that on this golf course.   It's a difficult golf course and it was a difficult day. 

Q.   Do you like these conditions to sort of continue?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, they're fairly stressful, but I guess I play well in these kind of conditions, so.   Yeah, I love stress.   Yeah. 

Q.   Some players were saying that pin placements were more like a Sunday.   Some of them were very tough.   How you putted, given how the weather and that, comment on that?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I putted and played nicely.   I can see where there were a few tricky pin placements out there. 

Q.   Even 1 was tough. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, you walk off 1 with a four and you're delighted. 
8 was a Sunday flag, I thought. 
5's just a cruel flag.   Putting it on the front there on that mound. 
16 was actually further back than the Sunday flag. 
So there were a few tricky ones, but then there were ones that gave you a chance, it gathered around towards it.   18's obviously a birdie pin.   But there were a few more. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I suppose so, but it's so often around this golf course where a great shot, though you weren't aiming at the flag, you know, I could tell you three or four times today where I hit it exactly where I was aiming, within a yard, and it was 20 feet.   But it's difficult to put it down as a great shot.   So I hit a lot of good shots today.   I think any round under par today is a good round. 

Q.   What pleased you most about this past two days?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Just the patience, I've shown, really.   Not becoming overly aggressive after making double bogey on the first yesterday.   Easing my way back into it.

Q.   What's your reaction to the one shot penalty for the 14 year old Chinese lad?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I don't know.   You just told me.   Well he won't do it again, will he?   He'll learn from his mistake. 

Q.   Is it a bit harsh that, obviously, he's 14, desperately trying to make the cut, there are obviously a lot worse offenders out there who seem to get away with it?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I watched him on TV yesterday, he didn't look to be noticeably slow.   And he's a youngster just learning the game and it's his first professional tournament, it seems a little bit harsh to me, yeah.   He probably learned to play slowly after watching us professional golfers on TV, so why should we be surprised? 
(Laughter.) 

Q.   On 18 green, did you give some like, I don't know, like the fans, did they ask you, or it looked like you did some ‑‑
LEE WESTWOOD:   Oh, no, I was pulling on the rope.   He was good enough to put my divot back.   I had to send my caddie back to put it back.

Q.   It looked like you were doing your Incredible Hulk impression. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, no. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, I felt good the last few years.   I had chances, haven't I. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   Aside from getting up‑and‑down on the 1st.   I suppose that would be it. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's very difficult to remember.   I'm 40 in two weeks time.   I can't remember everything.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT