MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the start. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, it was a good start ‑‑ well, not literally, but it's nice, a good first round.   So, yeah, it wasn't the ideal start, but I did manage a double bogey before in the U.S. Open last year, that sprang to mind, and I fought my way back to have a chance. 
So there was no panic, really.   It was nice to make birdie at the second and get one back there early. 
I played solidly.   I played the par‑5s well, which around this golf course, any time anybody's done well here they have played the par‑5s well. 

Q.   How about the 2‑putt at 13. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, the longer I looked at that putt the worse it got, really.   When I hit it off, I knew it was going to be a tricky one and I got up there and I could see putting it off the back, I could see putting it in Rae's Creek, I mean all sorts of things. 
I ended up leaving it about 16, 17 feet short, but making that one.   So I putted nicely today and I made a few nice ones. 

Q.   What happened at 1?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I hit it left, clipped a tree coming out, finished 50 yards short of the green, pitched it up there, the wrong side of the slope, rolled off the green, chipped it 15 feet by, I missed that. 

Q.   What happens then?   Do you think, well, no need to panic, there's 71 holes left to play?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, it probably will happen, but you could stand on the second tee and say, well everybody in the field is going to make a double bogey, I just got mine out of the way early. 

Q.   You have to be pleased with the up‑and‑down at the last. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, that was great.   That was a great.

Q.   You couldn't see the flag, could you, from down there?
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, I obviously knew where it was with the camera tower, I picked a spot out, the distance rather than the line was a bit of an issue, yeah.   It was 45 yard bunker shot, I guess, it's very awkward. 

Q.   Two good saves on 3 and 4. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, two nice saves there.   A bit unlucky at 4.   I landed it right on the sprinkler that I was aiming at, that's how accurate I am, really, I was aiming at that.   But I made a nice putt.

Q.   On 15 you went with the putter instead of the wedge there.   You guys had a little quick conversation. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, it was very quick down the hill there and the swale was there, and whenever you can get a putter on it around here I think you have to go with it.

Q.   Did you find something between Bay Hill and Houston?   You played very well, was there something between those two?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I hit a lot of good shots at Bay Hill, but just made three triple bogeys, one each day on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, which obviously you can't afford to do.   So that was more unfortunate.   I feel comfortable around this golf course, so I can plot my way around it.

Q.   Have you switched the putter?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah.

Q.   We were talking to your dad and he said that you were going to switch. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I, I used the longer one, but it was a bit heavy and it was, it's a bit‑‑ when you got to just breathe on a putt around here, it's easier to do it with a putter that's heavier, so I went back to one that I used for most of the year.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT