SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 30, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Lee, 5-under par, 67.   Got to be pretty happy about that.   Little bug in the ear told me you were out late last night hitting a few balls.
LEE WESTWOOD:   I hit a few balls around last night.   It paid off today.   Today, it was good.   Made a few more putts.

Q.   When you make a few putts, I see a smile on your face.   It's always a good thing.
LEE WESTWOOD:   Golfers are never satisfied, are we?   We roll a few in and think we can roll a few more in.   Just a vicious circle.   I like the way I putted it today and the greens were a little bit slower, that's what I found tricky about it.   Left a lot of putts short.

Q.   I got to ask you about the putter.   Got the long putter.   Is it adjustable where you can move it around and make it a different length and not have to cut it off?   Is that the deal?
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's into the belly putter.   Swings freely.   When I hold it, it's about 4 inches sticking out the top.   It helps me swing it a little bit easier.

Q.   That little attachment, too, may be a little more back weight up top and not much weight down at the head.
LEE WESTWOOD:   The weight feels more through.   It feels nice as well.   As soon as I picked it up, I liked it.

Q.   Your thoughts going into the weekend and looking forward to Augusta, I'm sure you'd like to play well here and carry that over.
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I played okay this season without playing great, and I wanted to play well this week and get a confidence.   Play well today and have a chance to win in this tournament.   I let myself down a little bit yesterday with 72.   I feel like I got back into the race today a little bit.

Q.   We'll have to wait and see and see if it's as good a finish with the young guys out there?
LEE WESTWOOD:   There isn't a lot of experience at the top of the leaderboard.   There are some tough shots out there.   18 is no easy cake.   Few birdie chances if you're hitting it well.   Wherever I am, I'll be pleased and be in good shape in two weeks' time.

Q.   Lee, that was just the round that you wanted, wasn't it, today?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah.   I mean, built up a little bit more confidence and I hit the ball really nice today.   It's longer, so I'm sure I'll start to swing at it better and made a few putts as well.

Q.   Is it a feeling that something has clicked as the week has gone on or in particular for today?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah.   I mean, at the start of the year, there's been a lot going on just recently.   Just recently it's starting to calm down and focus more on golf.   I'm not 22, 23 years old again where golf is the only thing in my life.   When you're 40, you have a lot of things to do.   Sometimes it gets in the way of golf.

Q.   In terms of this week, after a frustrating round yesterday after a good start, you must have almost had a feeling of wanting to regroup and go again this morning.
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah.   I felt like the course was there for scoring.   Those that went out early with no breeze shot well and moved right up.   We had a little bit of breeze at the start but nothing like the first two days.   I felt like there was a low one.

Q.   There was a spell you had there through the back-9.
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah.   I played well on the front-9, just didn't make any putts.   Got close at 10, missed it, close at 11, 12, 13, 15, 16.   3-putt on 17.   Tough one down the ridge.   I thought they putted quite slowly.   I don't know whether they're expecting winds.   They seemed slower.

Q.   Potentially how valuable can tomorrow be now that you've given yourself an opportunity be in the mix and feel good in the heat of competition?
LEE WESTWOOD:   The start of the year has been fairly slow.   I felt like I've been playing well.   It's been trying to convert from the range and the shots, turn them into some low scores this week, started to do it a little bit more for Augusta.

Q.   Given what you were saying before the tournament, there was, what, 3 bogies in the last 36 holes.   There are problems to be had out there.   That must be a satisfying a stat as any of the others?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Much more solid today.   I played the par 5s in 3-under par.   The first day I was 1-over.   You can't afford to do that.   Today, it was obviously a lot better.   I'll shoot lower scores if I start playing the par 5s better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT