SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 28, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round, few details about it.
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, came out pretty quick.   Birdied the 2nd, birdied the 3rd.

Q.   Lee, sort of talk about your round, a few details about it.
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, came out pretty quick, 15 feet from the 1st and birdied the 2nd, birdied the 3rd.   Bogied the 4th.   Didn't get up and down.   Birdied 5 and missed a good chance on 7. 
Hit it in the water twice on 8 off the tee, and then I got up and down.   Missed a good chance at 9, good chance at 10, 11.   Birdied 12, 13, 14.   Tried to make 6 on 15 again.   Hard to make. 
Good shot at 16.   18 feet behind the hole and made that.   Two good shots at 17, got around to the chip.   Had a good chip back and missed from there, 6, 7 feet. 
Then it's in the trap off the last, which I'm sure I won't be the first or last to do today.   Hit a 6-iron, good shot, 20 feet short left on the fringe there.   A solid round of golf.

Q.   Was the wind involved on 8?
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, not at all.

Q.   Operator error?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Operator error, yeah.

Q.   What's happening on the par-5s this year?   Is that that concentration you're talking about?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, probably is.   I don't know whether I'm trying to be too aggressive or what, but I just -- I suppose it goes in spells like that.   It's not like they were two bad shots on the par 5s, really. 
So, my short game and pitching are really good, so there's no reason why the par 5 scoring shouldn't sharpen up when you play like that and shoot 68, you make two 6s on a par 5 instead of making 4.

Q.   Good 6 wasn't it on 8th?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Actually, I find it hard to say there's any such thing as a good 6.   Was a good up and down.   Good demonstration of the short game improved.   Bad to hit it like that.

Q.   Is there anything?
AProbably good 8 there.

Q.   Was it overall --
LEE WESTWOOD:   Net 6.

Q.   Was it your short game overall, or was it one more than the other chipping versus putting, or what was it that you've been working on?
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, I've been working on my whole game.   My short game from 80 yards in has improved.   Bunker play is really -- I played a little chip at 17, that was to get it close and then spun it and probably to about 7 feet.

Q.   (Indiscernible)?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Swinging it a little easier.   I had some nice putts.   I holed it from 18 feet on 2, ten feet on 3, 20 feet on 5, 20 feet on 14, probably 18 feet on 6.   So that's it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT