THE RYDER CUP
September 28, 2012
Nicolas Colsaerts
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Incredible drama and an absolute privilege to watch, Nicolas.   Did you ever believe you would have played like that in your Ryder Cup debut?   That is the best round for a Ryder Cup rookie ever. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, I mean, I dreamt about it, yeah.   It's difficult to imagine you're going to do so well, but this is what match play is.   You have to hole it because you know the other guy is going to get it on top of you.   So yeah, your focus gets very intense, and I'm proud that I played the best way I could.

Q.   It's hard to pick out a particular one, but on the 17th in particular, Tiger Woods had hit it to four feet and you rolled in an incredible one there. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, absolutely.   I kept giving myself very good looks all day, so I thought I could do the same thing on 17.   Sometimes they work out pretty good. 

Q.   And Lee, what was that like to be involved in it? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   It was a pleasure to watch.   I didn't play my best, but Nicolas thankfully played fantastic.   It was unbelievable to watch that.   I tried to stay in holes and play along, but it was one of those amazing days.   He'll look back on that and smile. 

Q.   Nicolas, sum this up in terms of atmosphere, in terms of the golf you played today.   Is it possible to sum up?
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   It was just fantastic. 

Q.   Nicolas, a Ryder Cup debut that surely you've only dreamt about. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   Yeah, it was fantastic.   Going out with somebody like Lee, you know you're in very good company.   We played very well, obviously.   I felt very comfortable going out with somebody of his caliber.

Q.   Lee, describe what it was like to watch that. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   It was incredible.   I had the best seat in the house for the whole thing.   I don't know what he did this morning that set him off, but I've got to find it tomorrow. 

Q.   The reaction on 17 when you made that birdie putt was fantastic.   Talk about that. 
NICOLAS COLSAERTS:   You just can't predict those things.   I told Lee when we got to the 18th tee that it was my first uncontrolled reaction, which I guess everybody witnessed.   But yeah, this is what this tournament is about, when you make stuff like I did on 17.   Everything comes out of your veins and eyes, and it's pretty special. 

Q.   Lee, in the context of this match, how important was that point? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, it's a massive point.   If we would have lost the day three and a half to a half, it would have been difficult to come back.   We've still got our backs against the wall, but two down after the first day, it could have been worse. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT