NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 14, 2013
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   If you can talk about your round and what worked well for you today?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Played well.   I think it helps that I enjoy playing this golf course.   I've worked quite hard on my game and in the gym on Monday and Tuesday and yesterday.   I feel like I'm hitting the ball a lot better than the way I was hitting it two weeks ago in Dubai.   
I didn't feel like I did great last week.   I played really nice today.   Hit a lot of good shots, hit a lot of good shots, hit a lot of good iron shots.   Hit the flag ones and holed a couple other iron shots, it was good.   The only mistake I made was 17, I missed the green right with my second shot in the trap and finished on the downslope and had no bunker shot and thinned it and didn't get it up‑and‑down.   
But all in all, it was a really solid round.   I don't think it could have been much more than 68 really.  
   
 Q.   What's your opinion of the 10th hole?   Do you love playing that hole?   Is it treacherous enough?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I think it's probably one of the best short par 4s in the world.   
   
 Q.   How do you play it?   What's your strategy?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   I'm not sure.   As the mood takes me at the particular time.   I think if you lay up down the left, it's a tough shot in.   There's a lot of slope on the green.   They have changed it since I played it, six or seven years ago.   There's like a run‑off area down the left if you hit driver, so it runs too far and then you've got to come around the bunker to a back right flag.   
So it's really difficult to play it now, and there's no fringe around the green, around the bunkers.   So anything, it's a very severe green, it's very quick and anything that spins off goes in the trap.   It's significantly harder than the last time I played it.   I probably still haven't quite figured out how you play it but I think most of the people will be in the same position to be honest.   
   
 Q.   What did you hit at 10?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   I just hit driver and went too far and I chipped 20 feet right of the hole.  
   
 Q.   What did you feel like the turning point was?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, I think the first two holes I played were birdie chances, 10 and 11, I didn't birdie those but I hit two great shots at the next to about 15 feet and made that for birdie.   Then I hit two great shots at the next to about 18 feet and made that for birdie.   I think that's probably, picked up a bit of momentum for the day.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT