THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2012
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well, what do you think?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I played a lot better today.   I hit the ball well, gave myself a lot of good chances.   Hit a lot of good putts, just nothing seemed to want to go in for me. 

Q.   Happier today? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Much happier, yeah.   Yeah, I hit the ball a lot better today, so very positive.   I hit a lot of fairways.   I'm pleased.

Q.   Considering the conditions, how do you assess what happened today for you versus what the leaders are doing?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, it's there for the taking, really.   But, I mean, 9‑ and 10‑under are very good scores.   When you think what's third, it was 4 when I finished, I think it's 5 now.   So it shows you what is capable.   You have to play really well to shoot 9‑ and 10‑under, which the two lads must have done.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   No.

Q.   You get a chance to carry on tomorrow.   How do you think you'll do? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I don't know, I haven't got a crystal ball.   Hopefully I will.

Q.   If so, is your game going in the right direction?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I played a lot better today than I did yesterday, so you'd have to say it moved in the right direction, yeah. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   No.   7, yeah.   Like I said I hit the ball well.   10 I wedged straight over the flag.   It was pretty good all day. 

Q.   Is there anything specific that stands out for you that you take really positive out of today?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Just that I played a lot better.   I went on the range yesterday and seemed to sort it out a little bit.   Just needs a little bit of work, and should be all right in a couple weeks' time.

Q.   Is this your best chance? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Best chance of what? 

Q.   Of winning this, what you've got left in your career. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Who let him in?   (Laughter.)   Well, I'm a contender to win most majors.   I play nicely most weeks.   And over the last 12 or 13 major championships I've given myself lots of good chances.   So I'm going to have another chance in two weeks' time, aren't I, or three weeks' time.   It's just one of those things, you turn up, you try and play your best.   Sometimes it works, sometimes it doesn't. 
This time last year I was in the same situation, I think I missed the cut by a shot last year in the Open.

Q.   If you make the cut, do you have a shot at winning? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I would say it's remote with the weather forecast.   Because I think from the cut line you'd need it to blow pretty strongly both days, and I think tomorrow is forecast to be pretty calm again.   So I wouldn't see the lads coming back when everybody else is going forward.

Q.   If you do make it, what would be the goal for tomorrow? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I would just go out and play the same way I've played over the first two days.   I don't think you can change your game plan too much around this golf course.   I think if you start to get too aggressive, it will penalise you, as most major championship courses will do.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   A lot better from yesterday.   Going on the range last night I clicked on a couple of things.   And hopefully I can keep working on those and get my swing back.   It worked wonders today.   It was night and day hitting the ball from yesterday.   I'm in a way pleased it was calm, because if it had been windy, my ball‑striking yesterday would have been found out even more.

Q.   Are you amazed at times‑‑ it's like you're 55 years old or something.   Does it almost amaze you?   You're playing great, overall?
LEE WESTWOOD:   People have opinions, don't they, and they're like certain parts of the body, aren't they; everybody's got one.   You know, what can you do?   You don't listen to them.   They have their own agendas.

Q.   Can you remember the club you used for your second shot (inaudible) at Olympic? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   5‑iron.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   Where? 

Q.   17th?
LEE WESTWOOD:   That was the 17th, 5‑iron to about that far.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, you've lost me.   You said what did you hit on the 17th, second shot.

Q.   What did you hit for your second shot in the last round? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   9‑iron.   What a memory. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, it was about five feet on two.   Five feet six inches (laughter).

Q.   If you're not here this weekend‑‑
LEE WESTWOOD:   Not really, no, you get what you deserve.   The only regret I have is hitting driver off 16.   That was the only bad play I made.   That was born out of frustration, really.   I should have just hit 9, and I said that in the practice rounds and tried to hit a wedge closer having gone for the green.   But you do these things.

Q.   If you were assessing the situation now obviously how far back in your own mind, how far back do you think you could be and still have a chance to win? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I would say anybody level par or better has got a sniff.   Shoot 65 tomorrow and level par and the two lads shoot level themselves, you're four and five down, with a windy day coming up. 

Q.   Especially with the forecast of possibly 30‑mile‑an‑hour winds on Sunday?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, that's what links golf is like.   You could be out early in the morning, like you saw at Muirfield a few years ago when Ernie won on the Saturday there.   Guys went out and shot 65s and 64's early, and then in the afternoon it played like par 78.   That's the interesting thing about links golf. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, not really.   It's nice to have that support.   You get cheered along.   Me and Bubba were having a chuckle at it on the way around.   He says they shout, go Lee, and come on, Lee.   Where do they want you to go?   Where do they want you to come to?   (Laughter.)







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT