ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 7, 2012
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What happened? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I slipped walking to the first tee.   I was talking to Richard Sterne's caddie and not looking where I was going and stepped‑‑ I was walking to the first tee and my left foot went forward about two feet and my right foot stayed‑‑ I felt like I strained something in my groin in the right leg and just tweaked my light knee, as well.   Didn't really have a lot of confidence in it. 
Then as the round went on, I just kept stretching and it seems to have eased up a little bit.   Still a little bit worried.   I thought that if I stopped, that it would make it worse and it was better to keep it moving.   You know, didn't try to overdo it on the first few holes and I lost everything down the right.   As I said, as the round went on, felt like it eased up a little bit more and started to get a little more confident in it and putt a little more weight on it. 
I don't know what happened to it‑‑ hope it's not anymore serious than that.   In the back of your mind, you don't have the confidence to load up on the right side like I want to in the golf swing, and then the weight is too far forward and blocking it straight right. 
So it's difficult.   It was just something that I felt like, best thing to do was to stay out there and keep it loose, keep stretching it. 

Q.   So how do you assess what to do now? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, I'll ring Steve at home and see what he says.   Treatments, rest overnight and see if it seizes up.

Q.   At a crucial time in the season, May, and now this, been a heck of a year?
LEE WESTWOOD:   This tournament has been a curse for me last few times I've played it.   I lost in a playoff and then two years ago, I turned up much like this week here and then had seven weeks off after The Open Championship and this week I've slipped on the thing and strained my groin.   Well, you see me at the French open next year‑‑ it will be better, won't it. 

Q.   The way you finished   ‑‑ 
LEE WESTWOOD:   I hit a lot of good shots coming in.   I felt like on the right, I tried not to go at it too hard on my legs.   I hit a lot of good shots coming in, had a lot more birdie chances. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT