WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2012
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   When you start off like that do you start thinking a crazy low number?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, yeah, you can do, yeah.   It was a great front nine, wasn't it, put me in with a chance of winning the tournament.   There's some brutal flags out there on that back nine, and it's been tough.   Wind is swirling a little bit, and the greens are just getting faster.   Yeah, you'd like to attack around this golf course, but it just won't allow it sometimes.

Q.   How much of a break on 12 did you get?
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, I was lucky.   I played a good shot, and it needs a little kick right, that second shot, and it runs up there off the back of the green probably, and it just finished in an awful spot.   I'll tell you what, I thought it was a good chip, I was trying to play the dogleg.   There's so many evils that come into play there.   And then a nice putt that I left hanging on the edge.   Gave up a good one on the next for birdie that I just missed.
The flag at 14 is brutal.   I'll tell you what, I thought it was a great chip that came four feet short, and my playing partner just chipped it in the water, and I couldn't be aggressive with the putt.
15, probably hit the wrong club second shot, hit 5‑wood, went long.   Probably should have hit 3‑iron out to the right which would have left me an easy shot.
16, made a good par, 17 was a good two‑putt, and then 18 a lovely second shot, and it's just wickedly fast around that hole, four‑foot of break on a 15‑footer. 
Yeah, 11‑under is a good score which I probably would have taken going out there today.   I feel like if I would have made two or three more birdies and finished 14‑under, that might have had a sniff.

Q.   Did you wake up this morning thinking you had‑‑
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, not really, too many people between me and the lead, and I've not really putted very well this week.   Around the front nine today I made a nice couple of 15‑footers, but I think 15 feet is the longest putt I made all week.   So I'll just keep working on that.
But 11‑under is a great score.   I played solid. 

Q.   Talk about having a different caddie. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, my caddie is getting to know me and getting used to my game a little bit, as well, which is nice.   It was important to birdie one of the last three on Friday to make the cut and give my caddie a couple more days to get used to my game.   Obviously next week is a big week, and clubbing around there doesn't get any easier, so it's good we have the next two days.

Q.   How do you feel going into next week?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I'm playing solidly, aren't I, won last week and third in the Masters before that.   I played well this week aside from some putts, and next week is a golf course I love playing.   It suits my game.   I've been in with a chance two or three times around there, so yeah, I'm looking forward to next week.

Q.   What is it about this course that seems that the leaderboard is always filled with stars?   Is there something about the golf course? 
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's tough.   You've got to be precise.   There's no‑‑ there's hardly been any wind this week, really, save Friday afternoon, and today there's a bit of breeze.   But you're only looking at 13‑under, 14‑under leading.   You've got to hit fairways because the greens are firm, and making putts, there's some harsh flags out there where you have to be very defensive, like a major championship, which is why they've got the PGA Championship in a few years.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT