NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 12, 2019
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Back to an event as defending champion for the first time in a while. How does it feel?
LEE WESTWOOD: It's great. I always look forward to coming back to Sun City. It's a brilliant resort and great golf course. Always done well around here, and brings back good feelings.
Nice to be back defending a tournament. Tough to win these Rolex Series Events, and managed to win this one last year. Yeah, I'm excited about playing well again. I played well in Turkey last week, and excited to get back on the golf course this week.
Q. We spoke earlier in the year about your win here at length, but that 64 on the final day, how special was that?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I mean, when you're in contention or leading a tournament, to shoot a low round, the final round and winning is always great.
I hit a lot of good shots that day. Hit it close a lot and made some nice putts. Rolled a nice one in on 16 and obviously hit two great shots to 17 and made a nice putt two, solid shots into the last. I played some good golf under pressure. It's the sort of round and shots that you can feed off and build some confidence up.
Q. What are the positives that you take from last week that had been missing in previous events?
LEE WESTWOOD: I started working with Robert Rock a few weeks ago, the week at Wentworth, I wasn't hitting it very well and gradually over the last few weeks I've started to hit it better and better, and my ball flight's come back and distance control has come back.
I've been working with Phil Kenyon, as well, on the greens, and gone with the Claw grip and rolled a few in last week. Just a combination of everything. I've sharpened everything up. I had a chance with five holes left last week. Hit a couple of poor shots coming in.
I'm making these slight changes, so it's harder to do it on the golf course, especially when you're trying to win a tournament. Got a little too aggressive on a couple of holes but was 18-under with five to play and had a sniff because 20-under was in a playoff obviously. Was pleased with last week's performance after a slow first round 71. Feed off that and gain some confidence on it.
Q. You've had great success on this golf course numerous times. Do you think the changes you're making and your familiarity around here, obviously it will help your game step up?
LEE WESTWOOD: I've won four times around here, three Nedbanks and a Dimension Data. I know the course well. I know where they put the flags. I read these greens pretty well, as well.
So yeah, distance control with the elevation changes and the extremes in temperature all come into that. I have a pretty good game plan for the course and I know how to handle the variations in conditions.
Q. Which particular stretch on this course do you think is key for those low numbers?
LEE WESTWOOD: 1 to 18, really. There's spells where you feel like you can shoot some birdies and then there's other holes where you are just happy to walk off with par. It's a good golf course for course management and knowing when to be aggressive and knowing just when to back off a little bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT