MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Congratulations, 67, that's as good a round as you've ever shot here. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, ties my low round around this golf course.   I played well.   There was no weakness out there today in my game.   I hit it close, hit a lot of fairways and rolled in some nice putts. 

Q.   Did you feel like you really had the game to come out and compete?
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I've been playing well all year.   I've played well in the bigger tournaments and around the tougher golf courses like the Honda.   So I was pretty confident.   But trying not to let myself get carried away or anything.   I just wanted to come out today and start steady and strong and play my way into the tournament, which I've done. 

Q.   Some guys have said that conditions are there for scoring. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, when this golf course is soft, it obviously gives you a bit more of a chance.   There was not a lot of wind most of the day, then the last two or three holes it picked up.   17, it blew a bit and 18 was blowing quite strong with the storm coming around.   But I think they were slightly worried about the scoring getting out of control, so they tucked a lot of the flags away.   I thought there were some tough flags out there.   And obviously if it's soft, then it plays a bit longer tee to green.   So there were a few longer irons to be hit in there. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, you can play your way out of a tournament in the first round, and I haven't done that, so I'm right where I want to be and looking forward to the next three days, and hopefully I can stay in the position that I'm in. 

Q.   You tried to remind everybody on Tuesday this wasn't a two‑horse race.   How does it feel to put up a number?
LEE WESTWOOD:   I didn't really try and remind everybody.   I just trying to be a voice of common sense.   (Laughter.)

Q.   There's still a long way to go. 
LEE WESTWOOD:   Absolutely.   There's still a lot of world‑class players there and a lot of them playing well, and majors are hard to win as it is.   I'm going to have to play as good if not better than I did today to carry on in the position I'm in and keep playing like I'm playing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT