BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2012
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What was the particularly good bit about today?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   I hit quite a few good shots.   Just kind of destructive‑‑ getting in a bit of trouble.  
   
 Q.   Same one still?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's been left mainly, a bit of a pull‑‑ comes every now and again, one of them things.   Basically, over the week, just hit that a couple of times too often and missed a few too many short putts.   I missed three times inside five feet today on 8, 10 and 12.   
   
 Q.   Was it just the weather orthe greens   ‑‑  
LEE WESTWOOD:   I think you'd like a bit more of a growing season to be fair but you know, we've got all onto get this course ready for May.   I know it's lovely at the moment, but it hasn't been, has it.   You're fighting it a bit, aren't you.   
   
 Q.   13?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   13 I hit it in the fairway trap and then tried to take too much, plugged it in the face.   Dropped it in the bunker, it plugged, got it out, hit 7‑iron to 30 feet and holed it.   
Then hit 5‑iron on the next, lipped out for 1, for the car.   
   
 Q.   It was a lip‑out?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   It went up, didn't it.   It was this far behind the hole.   Left‑hand edge.   
The BMW, I liked it, as well, just my color, steering wheel on the right side, everything.   Nice white leather.  
   
 Q.   You've obviously been paying a lot of attention.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   I looked at it yesterday.   I had a feeling good things were going to happen.   So all in all, when it landed, ended up a bit right, and then it went up like that.   
But I made a lot of birdies.   I don't know how many birdies I made today.   
   
 Q.   You've made a few all week.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   I made six yesterday and felt 3‑over.   Like I said, I'm just hitting a bit of a pull‑up now and again which is destroying me.   
   
 Q.   How often does that pull‑up come back?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's my bad shot when I'm not swinging very well and I'm not swinging very well at the moment.   Just a case of doing a bit of practise.   I'm a bit tired.   I've played a lot this year already and a lot of backwards and forwards.   
   
 Q.   Looking forward to Sweden?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, looking forward to Sweden.  
   
 Q.   Only one before San Francisco?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   Yet another different way to prepare for a major.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, I haven't found right way yet so I might as well keep trying different ones.   The ones I have tried, seven top threes in the last, whatever it is, I've gone into a lot of them differently.   
It's difficult to prepare for a West Coast major, because nowhere is near.   If you play Memphis, it's still a four‑hour, five‑hour flight to California, and a three‑hour time change, four‑hour time change.   
So it's a tussle whether you play Memphis in all that heat or you go to Sweden where there will be steady conditions.   And, it finishes on the Saturday.   So I'm going to Sweden, because haven't played there for a long time, I've won there twice, and it will be nice to go back.   
   
 Q.   Not the wind they had last year‑‑  
LEE WESTWOOD:   That wasn't normal, though, was it.   You can't allow for stuff like that.   We had it in Scotland last year.   If you want good conditions, you can't play the week before.   
It's a great golf course; long, good test.   I remember I didn't watch any of it last year but I saw the scoring that Alex did, and he was quite a lot under after three rounds.   And then it showed its teeth on the Sunday.   It wasn't windy until Sunday, was it.   
   
 Q.   That's why it's finishing Saturday.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, because it's always windy on Sundays in Sweden.   
   
 Q.   What do you remember about Olympic Club?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   I remember being shocked how hard it was.   I thought in '98, slightly unfair.   The greens got a little bit daft.   That was proved when Payne putted it up and it rolled 20 feet back to his feet on the green.   
Mike, I spoke to on Wednesday, he was playing in the Pro‑Am and he says it's in great condition.   They changed a few things to make it play more naturally.   They changed the grass on the greens.   They got rid of a lot of the rough; that's part of the problem, you land in the fairway, and it would just roll down into the semi and they had one cut of semi, and it would roll up against the six‑inch‑high thick stuff, which I remember being a bit of a problem.   You know, sometimes you would try to land it in the rough on the high side and hope for a big kick‑out.  
He said that they put in an extra cut of semi, and the rough is not as thick.   So if you hit it off‑line, it will go into the trees, which will make it more interesting.   It will play more like it should play.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT