BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2012
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A couple of new changes obviously at the 18th, a place you remember well from 18, what do you think of the changes and what do you think of the start?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   I think it's about the best start I've ever had in this tournament.   I'm quite shocked really because I didn't really hit the ball well.   I started a bit poorly and did a bit of scrambling and finally caught up with me on the third when I made double.   
But the changes are good.   18 is now a really good hole.   You hit a good tee shot, it sets you up with a good birdie chance with a green that is able to accept a nicely stroked medium iron, 4‑, 5‑, 6‑iron.   If you take it on off the tee, it rewards you.  
   
 Q.   Is there a feeling, having come so close last year, and we remember the playoff, that there's unfinished business on the West Course this year?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Not really.   I played well last year and gave myself a really good chance.   I didn't play the last three holes well as I've said before.   Got what I deserved in the playoff really because the pitch shot wasn't good enough.   Had too much draw on it and too much spin.   I should have controlled it better than that.   
Probably one of the best starts I've ever had in this tournament, so fairly pleased.   I didn't have my AGame by anywhere near where you could say‑‑ well, not even my B Game really.   I felt like I struggled a bit out there and it's probably one of the best 70s I've ever shot, especially around here.  
   
 Q.   Nice way to finish as well, I guess.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   I had a bit of a hook off 11, which I made bogey, which I suppose you're looking for birdie at 11.   But then 12, 13, 14, I played well, hit some good shots and made three in a row which got me under par.   15, I hit one left again.   And then the last two holes I played nicely.   So yeah, all in all, I was very, very pleased with a 70, considering.   
   
 Q.   On that basis, happy with the changes, opening up with your best opening start for some time?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I think the changes to the golf course, Ernie was told to make it a tough test and he's now made it a tough test.   You have to play well‑‑ if you play well you can shoot a low score.   You can shoot a score in the mid 60s but if you don't play well, then it's going to penalise you.   That's all you can ask from the golf course.   
I made a few points of criticism a couple of years back and they have addressed that, and they have grown the rough on 17 down in the hollow, which makes it fairer and better I think and they have obviously changed the 18th quite a lot.   That now is a great par 5 finishing hole.   
   
 Q.   On that basis you're saying that you were not at your best‑‑  
LEE WESTWOOD:   On the basis, I am saying that I was right two years ago   (laughter) on the basis of today's play, a 70 was a great score, because it wasn't easy out there, and I had to fiddle it around a bit.   
   
 Q.   How would you judge that 70 today?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   A great 70.   I didn't have a lot of game with me today and I struggled a bit out there.   I think you witnessed a couple of the shots and made some nice up‑and‑downs when I needed to.   
Hit a couple of good shots ask then capitalised on those and made birdies.   Played the par 5s well, which you need to do around Wentworth.  
   
 Q.   When you know it's not going well, what adjustments do you make in the middle of a round?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   It just becomes damage limitation, a bit of a grinding exercise and just trying to fiddle it around and get it around, keep it in position where if you do hit a bad shot, you've got a chance of getting it up‑and‑down.   I didn't a couple of times, but most of the day, I gave myself a chance to keep my scoring going and keep some momentum.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT