WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2012
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT CROCKETT:   Well done today.   A lot has been made in your TV interviews about being through to Friday for the first time.   Perhaps we should concentrate on your form.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I played great over the first couple of days.   Solid, come out quick, made a lot of birdies early on.   And not really give each of the opponents too much of a chance.   
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Particularly pleasing today your iron day perhaps.  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I drove the ball really well.   I missed two fairways.   And my iron play was good.   I rolled a couple of nice putts in.   So I'm pleased with the way things are going.   
   
 Q.   What's the difference this year?   Just happen to be playing well right now?   Anything you did differently this year?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   I guess over the first two days I've started strongly, which is something that I've not done consistently over the last 12 or 11 years or whatever it's been (laughter).   And once you get on top, you get a bit of momentum and you can carry that through.   And I've not really given my opponent too much of a chance to get it back in it.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, I don't think about it, the fact that‑‑ I don't think about it, it's‑‑ each tournament is a fresh week.   It's a golf course I've always enjoyed coming and playing.   There's a couple of greens that are really severe.   But more than that, if you hit a lot of good shots then you're going to get a lot of good shots and rewarded for playing well.   And believe it or not, it's a tournament I enjoy playing in.   I like playing match play.   And it's a World Golf Championship, and the best 64 players in the world or thereabouts, and it's good fun to‑‑ well, it's bad fun to play.   I'm normally watching it at home on TV.   It's good to watch, but I'm hoping it's better to play.  
   
 Q.   What were you watching on your phone on the driving range today?   Was it a horse race?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I had a horse running in Dubai about an hour before I teed off, so I wanted to watch it.  
   
 Q.   How did it do?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Second.   
   
 Q.   The name?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Rerouted.   It's a good horse, just doesn't win (laughter) at least it came in second, which I can sympathize with to a certain extent.  
   
 Q.   This is a tournament so much about confidence and carrying over from one day to the next.   I know obviously how you play today can't really effect what you do tomorrow, but getting to this point how does it set you up for the rest of the week?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   The further you get and the more you play, the more confident you become, and more you get used to playing the golf course, the shots around the greens and the speed of the greens.   It's unchartered territory for me tomorrow.   But it's something I'm looking forward.   I'm a pretty good match play as the record suggests in other match play events.   I feel the way I'm playing I'll be tough to beat.   
SCOTT CROCKETT:   Well done today.   Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT