WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You played solidly.   What pleased you most about your play today?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   All of it, really.   I played really well.   I didn't give a hole away, didn't make a bogey.   I made six birdies.   We had a good match.   It was a good, honest, solid match.   We both played well.  
   
 Q.   It's different in this event where it's win or go home?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Not really.   No, you have still got to play well.   You are just playing one guy instead of the whole field.   You can't cruise your way into the tournament.   You can't wedge your way in there, as I do in a lot of tournaments.   You have got to come out quick and try to make as many birdies as possible as fast as possible.   
   
 Q.   You were disappointed on your final day in Dubai with your putting.   You said you had given Billy permission to slap you in you left the ball short of the hole.   Did you get any slaps?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, no.   I left it short once on 16, but he said he would let me off because it was into the grain and uphill and slow.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on tomorrow?   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Another tough match.   Let's face it, there are no easy ones there.   You have just got to keep playing well and hope your opponent doesn't play better.   
   
 Q.   You passed through to the second round?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, it was tidy.   It was some good golf out there.   I didn't make any mistakes.   I didn't give any holes away to him.   I made him win everything and he made me win everything.   It was a really good well fought match, a proper match play game that if you were watching it, you would have enjoyed it.  
   
 Q.   Probably satisfying, I would imagine, because you are walking that tightrope from the word go here?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, yeah.   It's like a sprint.   You have got to come out fast and try to make as many birdies as possible to get up as quick as possible so you have got momentum.   
   
 Q.   And the other area of satisfaction must be that the game is in good shape.   It looked like every department when you needed to chip well, you chipped well.   When you needed putts, you got them.   And obviously the long game was immaculate.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   I was just saying that to Billy coming back here from the 17th green there.   Every chip I was asked to play today, I played a good one.   There were some tricky chips around here because there are a lot of different sections on the green.   I was really pleased with that and I had worked on that a little bit last week.   I made a few putts, a couple of 15‑footers when I needed to.   So it was tidy.  
   
 Q.   I understand that calls for a double celebration for the Westwood family today.   I understand that the present for your dad had a success?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, he's really pleased with his Christmas present.  
   
 Q.   You better explain what it is?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's a horse called Belly Out that I bought just before Christmas.   It won a Point to Point in Ireland before I bought it, and then in it's two performances here, it's won two bumpers.   It was a little tougher for it today, but it got to know what other horses were like because you couldn't have got within 15 links of it in the previous two races.   
   
 Q.   How did you keep in touch with it?   You seem like you are very, very well aware of what happened?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   It's the magic of technology and a Sling Box.   I watched it on the computer in the room.   That's the reason I was only here an hour and a quarter before my tee off.   
   
 Q.   It put you in a perfect mood for this.   Karlsson coming up next.   He was in fine form today as well.   That's going to be a real toughy.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I have played a lot with Robert.   You know, he's got a good game.   He flights the ball high, which is perfect for altitude golf.   He seems like he's good in the desert, so it will be a tough match, as they all are going to be this week.   There is no easy games.   
I played, in theory, what should be my easiest game today against one of the lower ranked players and I had to shoot 6‑under par to win.   
   
 Q.   Just because it seems appropriate given what we were talking about, the second round hurdle for you, it's not been a great one in the past?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, I'm not too worried about that.   I have had had my best ever performance in this tournament today, so that's all positive.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT