THE 148TH OPEN
July 20, 2019
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LEE WESTWOOD: I hit a lot of good shots, I just didn't capitalize.  Hit a poor shot off 10.  I should have backed off the tee shot.  I should have used my experience.  I think Shane went close on 9 and the crowd put me off a bit.
But other than that played nicely.  Hit a lot of fairways, a lot of good putts that could have gone in.  And it was a good day.
Q. What happened on 10 for your tee shot?  It went in a rabbit hole?
LEE WESTWOOD: No, it just embedded in the ground.  I couldn't have played the shot even if it was setting on the tee.  I just accepted the penalty and took it back and dropped it.  If it hadn't been plugged and been in the same place I couldn't have, in my own conscience, played a shot.  I just took a penalty.
Q. (Inaudible.)
LEE WESTWOOD: It's against the spirit of the game.  I'm not interested in gaining an advantage in a situation like that.  I actually said to the rules official, There's no relief for embedded balls in The Open, is there?  She said, actually we've changed the rules.  So I was just going to go and drop it anyway, but she said, Hang on, and they brought another rules official and he explained the rule and I said, No, I wouldn't have been able to hit it really.  I could have faked it and said, I hit left-handed over me shoulder.  You just let your conscience be your guide in situations like that.
Q. How was your internal attitude after that?
LEE WESTWOOD: No, it was good.  I hit a lot of good shots after that.  Hit it close on 11.  Close at 12.  3-putted 12, unfortunately.  Close at 13.  Chance at 13.  Just shaved the hole.  Unfortunately got between clubs on 15 and didn't clarify in my mind and caught my 9-iron a bit chunky.  16 is just a hard hole.  I made 3.  17 I had a birdie chance.  And 18 I hit two good shots.
Q. You talked about you chatted with your girlfriend yesterday about sort of little stuff.  What was it like today, same kind of chat?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, when you get to the weekend of a major championship it goes so quickly.  The rounds go so fast, playing two balls instead of at least.  It doesn't feel like you've got much time.  We were chatting going around, but nothing ground breaking.  Nothing earth-shattering.  Just chitchat.
Q. How do you see tomorrow shaping up?
LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I mean, the weather is predicted to be bad, isn't it?  So Shane's in the lead.  He's got a big lead.  But no lead is big enough when the weather gets bad on a links course.  He's going to have an awful lot of pressure on him from the crowd.  He'll be nervous.  It'll be tough, long day for him.  Last day is always long, but it's going to be a hundred times worse for him.
Q. And your situation, just play --
LEE WESTWOOD: Just go out and try and play well.  You can still shoot a low score around this golf course.  It's such a good design that even in a really strong wind if you hit good shots and you've got control of the golf ball you can still make birdies and hit proper shots out there and get rewarded.
So, yeah, obviously I'd like to be a bit closer, but still in there with a chance, I think.  And I played with Tommy.  Tommy is playing very well.  He's got his ball in control.  If he had made a few putts today he'd have made a really low score.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT