COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 4, 2012
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Comments on the way you played for two rounds over three days?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, I was a bit sloppy over the first day in five holes.   A bit more like it today, came out quick, birdied the first hole I played, and then birdied 18, eagled 1 and birdied 9, played the par 5s well, hit some good shots.   I got up‑and‑downs when I needed to.  
3‑under par is about the score I was looking for coming back to the golf course today.   Hopefully it's not too far down and hopefully the breeze gets up this afternoon and sort of equalizes the draw.  
   
 Q.   Can you give any indication of how tricky it is out there in the wind today compared to the previous days you've played?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, not in the same tracks.   It's a lot more scorable today.   Yesterday was fairly unpleasant out there most of the morning, obviously very windy, cold, sand baked.   They didn't cut the greens because they couldn't because the ball would blow around, so it was tough to get any putts in the hole, so it was a bad break being on that side of the draw, but tried to make the best of it this morning going out, and hopefully the golfing good look down on us and the wind blows this afternoon and equalizes it and I'm not too far off the lead so I've got a chance tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I know it's history now, but how do you feel about the nature of the suspension yesterday and now being a 54‑holer?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   I mean the European tour are in a tough position.   Looking at it now today, I think they probably made the right decision.   You can never please anybody in that situation, and pretty much looking back in hindsight I think they got it right.  
   
 Q.   Just talk a little bit about the round.   The eagle, I didn't see it, so maybe talk about that.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   Well, the start on 16 chipped it back there to about five feet and made that, thankful made a good 3‑wood into 18, second shot to about 50 feet down and then hit driver 3‑wood into 1 to about 15 feet, made that.   
Missed a few good chances.   Bogeyed 6 because I hit a bad tee shot and had to take the drop, and then hit two good shots at 9.   
   
 Q.   You had two birdies closing out on the last two holes; right?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   No.   No.   I only birdied 9, parred 7, parred 8.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT