ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 27, 2012
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You were clearly battling a fairly painful injury out there.   Tell us what you felt and when.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   I've had it for about a month now but the last three days is the first time I've played sort of three rounds of golf in a row since Thailand the end of last year.   So I felt it a little bit yesterday more than I felt it Wednesday in the Pro‑Am, and then today I felt it quite a lot.   
It's just the neck is locked up a little bit, sometime over Christmas, and the pain refers down into my shoulder there, and then into my elbow which feels like somebody is sort of driving a needle in there.   
So I struggled to support the club on the backswing and didn't feel like I could deliver the right amount of power on the pitching.   That's why I kept coming up short and didn't have the commitment coming through the ball.   
So I'll just get it worked on later on this afternoon, or now, and just try and free it up a little bit.   Should be all right for tomorrow hopefully.  
   
 Q.   Any concern that you could do yourself further damage by continuing to play?  
LEE WESTWOOD:   No, because we know where it is and the pain is referred from the neck down my arm, so won't do anymore damage going out there and stretching it off.   
It makes it better, but still have the confidence to go through it when I'm out on the course.   It's a matter of getting it back into it I think and loosening it up.   I'm not as young as I used to be, too.   
   
 Q.   Did it ever cross your mind to come out of the tournament; you battled back so bravely.   
LEE WESTWOOD:   I think if I had started hitting it regularly in that long rough in the back nine I would have struggled but fortunately I didn't.   I just hit it off‑line a couple of times but it went into the sand and it wasn't quite so bad.   
But if I had hit it into the long rough, I might have had a think about it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT