PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts on a final round of 68 and another near miss. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I played lovely again today. Just one of those things. I felt like I stroked it a little bit better. 
 Having said that, I missed twice inside six feet in the first five holes when you're looking to get off to a quick start is not ideal; and it's in the water at 6, I made a nice 10-footer there for par. 
 Didn't really hole that much, apart from ten feet on 10. Great eagle putt on 12 that I'm not sure how I missed. And 18 I bogeyed, hit it in the water second shot, going for the green out there out of one of the traps. It runs in these traps and it tends to sit down, so you get sort of three quarters of the ball to aim at, and if you don't catch it exactly perfect, then it didn't quite go as far as it normally does, and it was swimming.

 Q. Talked about the final four holes this morning and how difficult they play. It's very tight up there. How difficult would it be in your opinion to make four pars to win this thing?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Very difficult, 15, even starting at 14 is a tough drive, and a quick green if you get past the hole. 
 And then 15 was a good 3-iron for me. 257 and the wind is out of the right, it's playing a little bit tricky and a lot of action in the left-hand trap there. 
 16 is playing hard. I hit a big drive up there and hit 7-iron. 
 17 I was surprised. I don't think they moved the tee too far forward. It was only 8-iron. I would liked to have seen the leaders hitting 6-iron or 5-iron in there, that would have made it exciting.
 And 18 is obvious. It's just a difficult drive and made even harder today with the wind into out of the left, and it's a difficult second shot with a tight flag on the front.

 Q. Chubby tells me you are going on holiday tomorrow. Enjoy. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Thank you. 

 Q. You had a decent run at it for a while there, what was your verdict there in the final round?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I played lovely again. Didn't miss many greens in regulation, which was tough today. And played very solidly. Missed a couple of short ones early on. 
 I guess everybody is missing on these greens. They are very difficult to read. But hit a lot of good putts out there that didn't go in. 

 Q. Hitting good putts, something to take on to the next few weeks and next year and beyond?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I've got a couple of weeks off now, and then play again in Switzerland and then Holland, the Dutch Open. Looking forward to those two weeks and getting back to Europe and some big tournaments still left this year.

 Q. Not a win but ultimately do you feel good about the way you've played this week?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I have enjoyed playing great for a long time now, but unfortunately when I turn up to majors, when I don't win one, be then it's a disappointing week for everybody it seems; obviously for me, but that's the sort of level of golf I'm playing at. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT