PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. That looked horribly frustrating?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I've had one bad shot all day, off the 14th tee, not that bad a shot really, but in the trap ask got an awful lie and got a bit unlucky on the second shot and it rolled back 60 yards and ended up making double anyway. But you know, just hit it great all day and close and made nothing. 

 Q. What's the problem on the greens, misreading them, stroking them? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Misread a couple. Mis-struck a few. And when I hit good ones, they did completely the opposite of what I expected them to do or somehow managed to miss. 
 You know it's just disappointing because I'm playing such good golf and I have done for the first three days but nothing's gone in and just under pressure all the time, so keep playing quality golf and hitting quality shots which you need to make your fair share of 15-footers.

 Q. A lot of guys have not experienced the pressure of a major on Sunday, what will they feel different tomorrow than a regular event?
 LEE WESTWOOD: A major championship will be a lot more pressure but I think 1-under is by no means out of it. 8-under is leading and he's got four-odd holes to play so the end of the day, as daft as it sounds, 5-under could be leading and I could be four behind. But you never know, he might play them great and I might be nine behind.

 Q. Is there anything you can do, get to the putting green and find something? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: What do you think I've been doing for the last year (chuckles). Try and figure something out. 

 Q. The putter again on the back nine?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, it was the putting all the way around really. I've made two birdies, and they were 5-foot putts and I've missed four or five inside ten feet so you can't do that on these greens and everybody else is making them, that's the problem.

 Q. Like to say you're working away at it, is there anything different you can try? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't know. Different religion maybe? I have no idea. I've tried everything else it seems. Just need a bit of inspiration from somewhere and a bit of luck.

 Q. Too far back at the moment?
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, not at all. I mean, you don't know what's going to be leading at the end of the day. I don't know what the leading score in the clubhouse is. But on the course, those fellows have got some hard holes to play, so not wishing ill on them but you can still make a mess of the last three or four.

 Q. So if the putts do drop, you fancy you can shoot a 63, 64, 65?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'd like to think they are going to drop tomorrow but they haven't dropped all year, so why should they change tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT