U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It was really Rory's tournament from the start almost, wasn't it?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I mean, you shoot 75 the first day it's going to be tough to get into it from there, especially when you shoot 65 and set some records. 
 Yeah, I played nicely yesterday. I didn't play great today. I hit the ball okay but was just out of control, a bit like the first couple of days.

 Q. What about this course, this U.S. Open course? A lot of people say it wasn't up to U.S. Open standards. How did you feel about it?
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's been a great U.S. Open. I don't know how you couldn't like this one.

 Q. Only because they didn't punish the players this time. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: They punished you if you played poorly.

 Q. Well, for some of the reaction coming in, it wasn't so high. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, but if you play well, and obviously Rory has, then you deserve to make birdies and shoot a good score. If you play poorly, then you got punished out there. It was a good, fair, honest test. I thought it was great. 

 Q. How do you feel about going over for the British now? Do you feel like you're in good shape and how much are you going to play between now and then?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, listen, I hit it great this week, and I finished tied third in a major, so that shows the level at which my game is at.

 Q. How do you feel about the whole thing? It seemed like a foregone conclusion today. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, once he started, we were all playing for second. 2-under through 4 was the perfect start. If anything was going to go wrong, it was going to be at the 1st and the 2nd and the 3rd and the 4th. But he got through them in 2-under and just carried on playing the way he did all week. Well done to him. It's tough to win a major, and it's probably even tougher to win it like that.

 Q. You knew about him, but for the world this was his coming-out party, I guess?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not really, not if you've watched him play. He shot 62 around Quail Hollow, which is a U.S. Open type golf course to win last year. He's been knocking on the door. It's amazing he's only ever won three tournaments the amount of time he gets into contention. Maybe this will give him that impetus to go forward and win more often.

 Q. How much do you think about No. 1, right on the precipice? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not really. I've been world No. 1 before, and obviously it would be nice to get back there, but it would be nice to win a major. I'll be looking forward to the Open Championship now. Finally got my game in good shape. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT