VIVENDI SEVE TROPHY
September 14, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What's it like being back at the Vivendi Seve Trophy?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's nice. It's eight years since I played the Seve Trophy. Vivendi have obviously come on board just recently and it's gaining in prestigiousness every year.   
 Obviously there's a tinge of sadness this year with Seve passing away early in the year but it's nice that it's a good lineup this week, and I'm sure in the true Seve tradition, it will be as competitive as ever.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts and deliberations on actually playing? You didn't have to.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, and I've played a lot just recently, but it's a chance to represent Great Britain and Ireland against Continental Europe. It's a chance to honour Seve to a certain degree, as well.   
 It is in a long run of tournaments for me but it just about fits in, this one. And I suppose with The Ryder Cup coming next year, it gives José Maria Olazábal an idea of possible pairings of guys that get on the team and it's another chance to come back to Saint-Nom-la-Bretèche. I think it must be ten years, 11 years since I've been here, and you forget how beautiful a place it is. It's an incredible place to come and play golf.  
  
  Q. It is glorious, you look around and it's chalk and cheese compared to Holland land week.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's spectacular. You wouldn't believe we are in the same continent, would you, when you see the weather in Holland last week and when you see the weather now. Hopefully start out like this the rest of the week and have some good golf.  
  
  Q. Tell me about this course and how it shapes for a team event.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I think certainly testify ten years ago, it played harder than it will do now. With the advances in technology it will play on the short-side this week, especially that the fairways are nice and running a bit. I think you're going to see a lot of birdies. I think the course is in excellent conditions, greens are good and you'll see a lot of putts made and I think you'll have to be well under par to win matches.  
  
  Q. And you'll get great support being in this location, as well.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I think so. I think we'll get good galleries, and obviously the weather will make a massive difference if it's nice all week. The French crowds come out in the thousands like they do for the French Open just down the road at Paris National. Hopefully they will be supportive but it will be hard for Great Britain and Ireland with the European Team having all that home support. We'll have to play extra well I think.  
  
  Q. And yet Great Britain and Ireland are on a winning streak, looking invincible at the moment.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I don't know whether it's invincible. I think on paper the European side have got players higher in the World Rankings.   
 But you know, golf is not played on paper; it's played on grass, and I suppose with that they are slight favourites, but I think a lot of the British players have played a lot of match-play golf over the years and might have a few tricks up their sleeves.  
  
  Q. GB&I do boast the highest ranked players and successful captain, as well.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Paul has done it before and been successful. There's a good few experienced players on the GB&I side that can lead the rookies along as well. It's a nice balance. I think if we play to our best then we'll have a chance.   
  
  Q. How are you playing? Because the last couple of results looked good, on paper but you haven't entirely been happy with your form.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I had a couple of weeks off after the PGA Championship and went away on holiday and just laid on the beach and did a bit of waterskiing and relaxed. I didn't play any golf so my swing felt a little bit out of sync and a bit rusty and I've managed to finish sixth and fifth in my last two events. To say I haven't played my best, those level of results show the level of golf I'm playing now and my average is not that average.  
  
  Q. What is Paul McGinley like as a captain?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: He's very good. When he talks he sounds like he has a lot of confidence in himself and a lot of confidence in the team and seems to have a plan. All of the boxes ticked for eventualities out there, and he has the experience of playing in a Ryder Cup Team and things like that so he's seen different captaincies, and when he talks, you listen.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT