OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 21, 2020
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRIONY CARLYON: We welcome our latest winner from The European Tour, Lee Westwood, to the OMEGA Dubai Desert Classic.   
It's great to have you here this week, but question on everyone's mind is how you celebrated on Sunday night.   
LEE WESTWOOD: I think because I had not had a drink for nearly two weeks, it affected many he really quickly. So I was a really cheap date for somebody, after about four beers, I felt I was flying. I just went to the sports bar and watched Liverpool beat Man-United with Thomas Björn, so he was pleased. A few beers, a few pints of Guinness. Went back around 3.00 for a chicken shawarma some chips, watching the 49ers. It was a perfect day, really, round of golf and watching the 49ers get into the Super Bowl.   
BRIONY CARLYON: We spoke a few days ago, 25 wins on The European Tour, and obviously how much that meant to you, but have you had time to process its in past 24 hours or so?   
LEE WESTWOOD: I think the more you win, the more you get used to getting back to being on an even keel, really. A lot of people, if they are won early in their career, they struggle to bring themselves back again, but I've won a lot of tournaments and I've won weeks back-to-back.   
Obviously over the years, I've had to really kind of evaluate everything, take it all in, process it, if you call it that -- I hate that term -- and then get ready for the following week.   
Yesterday I came up, hit a few balls, but being here, letting people congratulate me, kind of being around, being present and getting that out of the way, let's me focus on this week's tournament quicker.   
 Q.  I would imagine you'd been inundated with people congratulating. Any in particular?  
LEE WESTWOOD: All of them, really. Anybody who's texted me, they are all my friends and they obviously are all very special. Everybody from Gary Player and Greg Norman to Ronan Keating and Robbie Williams. It's a fairly broad spectrum of friends I've got. You know, got like 150 WhatsApps to reply to, 70 text messages and 30 e-mails. I love all the congratulations, but by the end, I was sending the thumbs-up back (laughing).   
No, it's great. I've got a lot of good friends, friends from years ago when I was at school sending me e-mails, and that's really nice.   
 Q.  Not just from golf, larger than sport --  
LEE WESTWOOD: It's nice, kind of -- I don't know how to put it, like you say it wasn't just golf. People, you know, nearly 47 and he's hanging in there and still got the drive, four different decades.   
Yeah, it's obviously a big achievement because nobody's ever done it before. I'm proud of that, and you know, come back down for this week and get focussed on trying to play well again. I might play great and not win this week. But obviously playing great is a priority.   
 Q.  I think I'm right in saying that you've been fairly focused in terms of not suffering from various ailments and injuries.  
LEE WESTWOOD: I really have.   
 Q.  How have you addressed that? Is it exercise or what you eat or whatever it is?  
LEE WESTWOOD: I tell you, what I just spoke to Helen, my fiancée, she'd tell that you my diet could be better, and there's times when I drink a little bit too much.   
But over the years, I've worked out a lot and I'm very fortunate to play practice rounds with people like Greg Norman and Nick Price, Nick Faldo in the early years and Gary Player and just obviously impressed upon me working out. I don't so much need to be skinny, but I've always concentrated on maintaining the areas of my body that take a battering, knees, back, shoulders, I've done a lot of exercise over the years on them to try and prevent injury, really, rather than getting an injury and then having to fix it. I've only really been out once and that was when I tore a calf muscle, basically.   
 Q.  You see various injuries nowadays, ailments.  
LEE WESTWOOD: I think also the way I swing it -- well, without knowing, I was fortunate when I was a kid that I played lots of different sports. I didn't start playing golf at five years of age, so I played lots of different sports, rugby, football, cricket. I was a good runner. And all those kind of give me a base, a physical base to work from.   
I was just a strong lad growing up and pretty fit. Then I started playing golf at 14. I do sometimes worry about these kids who start playing golf at the age of five now, because golf, you're bending over, you curve your spine that way, you rotate, as well. It's not the ideal movement for a six- or seven-year-old kid. You're just going to end up.   
 Q.  Do you think five is too young?  
LEE WESTWOOD: I think, yeah, it probably is. Mentally, you're not ready for golf at that kind of age. It's a pretty draining sport mentally, and certainly look at my son, if he'd taken it up at a young age, he wouldn't have enjoyed the game as much as he's enjoying it now. He just started at 13, 14 years of age, which I did.   
Yeah, I've been lucky with injuries, but I've also done the work when it's needed, going to the gym in my late 20s. I probably should have gotten there earlier, but just didn't switch on quick enough. So I got in the gym around my 30s which coincided with getting to No. 1 in the world and I did a lot of hard work with Steve McGregor kind of from 2006-ish to 2012, which is going to be a good foundation. I'm back working with him again.   
So you know, doing a lot of leg strength and flexibility, and a lot of work on my back to try and pull my posture into line. In golf, you're always like this (hunched over) you need to open them up.   
 Q.  From a 23-year-old who won in 1996, there was so much show of emotion, you running after the ball when you made that long putt at the Scandinavian Masters to the celebrations now, just tell me, how much has the celebrations changed, and also, how much has the week after winning, say, your first tournament, if you just look back at it, and now after winning the 25th tournament, the week after, players go through a lot of highs, highs almost, not any lows. But what have been your experience?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Well, that putt -- I don't have quite that energy anymore.   
But yeah, you're right, the following weeks used to be difficult. I took the week off, actually, after winning Scandinavia and I came back and missed the cut. It was difficult. Your first win, you're obviously in a dream world and it's very difficult. You've not had that experience before, so you don't know how to handle it. It just comes with experience and winning more tournaments. Now, you know, it takes me -- it took me, you know, a day. My drinks are a bit more grown up and my celebrations, as well (chuckling). No more shots.   
 Q.  And nobody has done the UAE quadruple, when I asked you in Abu Dhabi, as well. Is that something that's a thought as you go into this week?  
LEE WESTWOOD: No, I didn't even realize it happened to be honest until people started talking about it. It's not something that even registered with me. But obviously it's nice to do it, and I think as a golfer, you just -- you should just focus on the bare facts, break it down trying to play well that week. If you're good enough and you play your best game, then you'll have a chance of winning out here.   
 Q.  When did you hook up again with Steve?  
LEE WESTWOOD: About March last year. I had a sit-down with him. Didn't really fully commit to it and didn't get into it, but he's always trying to get me back into the gym and doing stuff like that. If somebody pushes me to something, I just kind of shut off, and I think now he's kind of learning to just tease me in there. I went on holidays, Thailand over Christmas and the new year, and went in every day. Maintenance stuff, exercise work, shoulder blades, more flexibility in my shoulder. It's all based around just trying to swing the golf club and injury prevention, really, and he obviously said gaining a bit of weight, it's easy to turn fast, when you don't have to shift all this fat around.   
 Q.  So team Westy would be Steve, Ben, Phil, Rocky, Helen?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Helen, who was caddying for me that week, yeah. I try to bring them all together, and so we're all singing off the same hymn sheet.   
 Q.  You obviously talked about the Ryder Cup on Sunday, but have your other goals changed for this year as a result of how well you played last week and the win, obviously being in the majors, in particular?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I didn't really have any goals. My goal is simply, you know, this is the work with Ben, the goal is to work on the mental side of the game because I feel like that's where -- that part of the game, if anything, has been lacking and that's going to enable me to play my best more often.   
So I've been working on that part of the game, and it is basically just go out, try my best, have fun, and just control what I control. You know, the movements in my golf swing and stuff like that. I know if I get it in the right positions on the golf plane, I hit the ball straight, and you know what, shock; if I hit the ball straight and starts holing a few putts, I'm talented enough to win tournaments, and if I win tournaments, I move up with the World Ranking points and move up the Money List and start qualifying for World Golf Championships and majors and possibly at the end of the year, The Ryder Cup Team, who knows.   
 Q.  In Abu Dhabi, if we really look at the entire tournament, first round was not your best round?  
LEE WESTWOOD: I played well the first round.   
 Q.  Just looking at the scores. But what I wanted to ask you is that I saw you on a few holes with Eddie and Poulter and you were really having a blast and you were really enjoying the round, even though those two or in the really playing as well?  
LEE WESTWOOD: They struggled a bit. But to answer Martin's question, my goal is to just go out there and have fun and if I'm playing with two lads that are friends of mine and that I get on with, and I love Eddie's sense of humour; and I've always gotten on with Poults and you know what Poults is like, he's like a peacock out there, bouncing around, chest out, and he just makes me chuckle and he gets me in a good mood.   
You know, first two rounds of the year, nobody we're just out there really breaking ourselves in for a year. I played solid over the first two days, and then obviously played better over the last two days, you know, started holing a few more putts. My stats were pretty good over the first two days. I hit a lot of fairways. After three rounds, I hit as many fairways as anybody, so it wasn't like the first two rounds was a bit scrappy or anything.   
 Q.  Get a text from Pádraig?  
LEE WESTWOOD: I haven't, no. He's probably trying to not put too much pressure on me, not that he could.   
 Q.  When you have played as much as you have, and when you have won as much as you have, is there anything else that you look forward to in your career, and what's kind of the legacy that you'd like to have?  
LEE WESTWOOD: My legacy, I don't want -- when I die, I don't want people to sit down and golf be the first thing they mention about me. I want them to focus on other things. You know, he was a nice lad or you know good fella and you could always go towards him. He was never nasty to people. He always tried to do the right thing, and then he won a few golf tournaments.   
 Q.  49ers is your team?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Since the late 80s, Jerry Rice -- they only showed one game a week in England. Channel 4.   
 Q.  Can I ask you one last question? Of all the 18 holes over there at Majelis, which one is your favorite and why?  
LEE WESTWOOD: There's a lot of good holes on this golf course. I think 6 is probably the toughest hole. You know, you've got to hit the fairway, narrow green -- well, it certainly helps if you hit the fairway. But I think 18 is a cracking finishing hole. Always provides excitement.   
But I think as far as looking at a hole, the 8th is one of the most spectacular holes, and also with the new tee on 9, 9 is going to be one of the sneaky hard holes again this week. Got to hit the fairway. I mean, I haven't been out there yet but I like the way everybody is talking about it. They have added a little bit of length. It's just a golf course that I've always enjoyed playing. Whenever I've come out here on holiday, I've come here and I've always enjoyed playing this golf course. Obviously you look the results, you'd say it suits me.   
BRIONY CARLYON: All the best this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT