BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. It was one hell of a scrap all day between the best two in the world, wasn't it.
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I can't talk for Luke, I wasn't watching how he played but I played lovely all day. The finish was a bit iffy I suppose, the 3-putt on 16 and I had chances to birdie the last two and didn't take them. So that's the reason I finished second; not because I lost the playoff, but because I didn't take my chances on 17 and 18. 
 I was in position well before that, I was hitting middle of all of the fairways, hitting it right where I wanted to. 

 Q. Did you sense that it might come down to a battle between the two of you, just based on your experience more than anything?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, that's how it should have played out and I suppose it did. 

 Q. And the putt on the last there, how far was that? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was about seven feet I guess, six or seven feet. Just miss-read it. 

 Q. And it's a shame for you the way it finished in the playoff, but irrespective of that it's been another very good week?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Where did the ball pitch? It's amazing it went in the water. When Luke's was in the air, I thought it might have gone in the back bunker. 
 But it shouldn't have gone into a playoff. I had a good chance at 17 going into with a 3-iron. 

 Q. So it will be one that got away, is that how you feel at this minute?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it is a bit like that, but if you're going to miss your chances, you go into a playoff, and they are volatile, aren't they? 

 Q. There seems nothing wrong with your game coming into the real strong part of the season now with three Majors in the next couple of months?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I'm playing very solid, pleased with the way I'm starting to putt. I made a couple of nice putts today. The one on 12 was a nice one. But I hit it close, other than that really and made a great birdie on 15. Missed chances on 2 from about five feet, and 5 from about eight feet, nine feet straight downhill I guess. 

 Q. That's why people have come here in these numbers, knowing that they have got the best two in the world, irrespective of how it might have finished?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, the crowds have been great today and it shows the importance of the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT