U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 17, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Very nice afternoon of golf for you. Are you happy with the round?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I played well. I didn't hit that many bad shots, hit a lot of good ones. A bit disappointed on the 8th, hit it down the middle of the fairway and chunked it in the trap and made bogey and didn't birdie.   
 16 from the middle of the fairway with a 3-iron, but other than that it was a good, solid day.  
  
  Q. Looking at what Rory did this morning, how marvelous was that?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, brilliant. It's great golf. How many is he leading by?   
  
  Q. Six.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: You have to play fairly well in a major to lead it by six at any stage.  
  
  Q. When you look at that score, do you shake your head?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I did say when we finished our round yesterday if you read the transcript that nobody had shot 5- or 6-under in the morning taking advantage of the golf course because it was there for the scoring. I thought they made it very fair, and if you hit fairways and you drive the ball well, you're going in with a few short irons and you can attack the flags.   
  
  Q. Are the greens any softer after the rain delay?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I thought they were responsive all day without there being a rain delay. The ball was stopping, spinning back, which you don't normally see at a U.S. Open. And they're putting pretty well. So there's no reason not to score well out there. There wasn't a desperate amount of wind, and like I say, the golf course has been set up perfectly and is in good condition.  
  
  Q. When you go out on a weekend and there's that kind of a gap, does it change the approach that you have when you go out like you have to go out and make another number?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'm more looking at Y.E. Yang, now who's in second spot, trying to catch him, because if I'm going to win the tournament, then I'm going to need Rory to play poorly over the weekend. I might play great and shoot 11-under par and get to 10, but he's still got to shoot -- if he shoots level at the weekend then he wins. But when you've got a six-shot lead, as I know, because I've had a few six-shot leads, everybody gives you the tournament almost, so in everybody's mind he's probably already won it. They're probably debating whether he's already won it on TV.   
  
  Q. Is it comparable to Pebble Beach in 2000 when people thought they were playing for second place?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I think that's the attitude I'm going to go with over the next couple of days to try and get past whoever is in the second spot, and we'll see what Rory does. He's had leads before.   
  
  Q. What advice would you give to Rory going in with two rounds to go?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'm supposed to beat him over the next two days. I'm hardly going to give him advice, am I?   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT