MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What were your thoughts on today and the week in general. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Today was typical of the way I played all week, really. I played brilliant, just haven't made any. I hit a lot of great shots. 
 Didn't hit that bad a shot on 12, just took it a bit too much at the flag and the wind swirled around and it hit the bank and came back in the water. I could have made 2. 
 Then hit two good shots in 13, got it stuffed. Didn't make birdie. 
 Birdied 14. 
 Hit two brilliant shots into 15. Got a bit stuffed. 4-iron went and carried too far. 
 Hit it to four feet on 16. Missed it. 
 So just today I should be standing here 10-under. And that's without the carnage of the first three days on the greens here.

 Q. You can tell it must be frustrating is the best word, isn't it?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, to come so close last year and got myself in good shape this year and then, but on the greens, it just makes me feel like pulling my hair out. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, hopefully, yeah. I felt a little bit more comfortable today with the belly putter. At least I made one 15-footer today.

 Q. Do you think you're going to carry on with that?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I don't see any future in the short one for the near future for awhile, so I think I'll carry on with the belly putter. Maybe find one that fits a little bit better. This one isn't quite long enough and it's a bit flat. But I was battling with that today.

 Q. Obviously concentrating now on your game, are you aware of the fun and games going on behind you?
 LEE WESTWOOD: With Phil? 

 Q. No, way back. With Rory and everybody. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: No. No. No idea. 

 Q. You were talking about the putting, obviously people think that you got to hit greens in regulation here, what's the value of hitting greens in regulation?
 LEE WESTWOOD: You got to hit greens in regulation to have chances around here. But you got to finish it off when you hit it as close as I did this week. 
 You know, I should be standing here, I shouldn't actually be standing here, I should be out on the course. With the way I played the first three days, 3-under was abysmal scoring. It should have been probably 12 or 13. And then today I played lovely again. So just one of those things. It's a frustrating day, isn't it. 

 Q. I hate to ask you this, but obviously as we're talking Rory tripled 10. And I'm just wondering, the way the situation is out there and the way the hole locations are that you played, and knowing Rory as you do, is it a monumental task now to get yourself back into it? He's two back. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah. It's tough to turn it around when you've had a four shot lead overnight and now two behind and hitting few ropey shots. 
 I mean, I saw him when I was coming up the left, I have played with Rory a lot, when he gets under a bit of pressure he's got a pull hook in his bag and he hit it on 10. 
 So that's something he'll learn to cope with experience, but that's why they go on so much about experience at the Masters. The value of it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT