MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. A lot of people making a move out there today. What was it like to be one of them?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, it was good. You know, I sort of decided at the start of the day instead of Saturday being my moving day, I'd better make it Friday and try and get into contention. As well as Rory's has played, you don't want to get too far behind, but -- five is not that much, but I know better than anybody with a five-shot lead how quickly a five-shot lead can evaporate out there after Saturday last year going down 11 with a five-shot lead and about 45 minutes later being a shot behind. 
 It was nice to play as well as I did, and 67 is always a good round around here. 

 Q. Could you already tell there was a lot going on with you guys and around you? Did you hear it all around the back nine today?
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really. I was concentrating on what I was doing, just trying to hit solid shots, get as close as I could and make as many birdies and eagles as possible.

 Q. Do you have any different approach, how you're going to handle the weekend?
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, no, I'm just going to keep playing the way I'm playing, hopefully. I've played very solidly tee to green over the last couple days, and I guess 5-under is probably the worst score I could be on.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LEE WESTWOOD: I made more of the par-5s today. I was 5-under for the par-5s, which is going to stand you in good stead around here. I didn't make too many mistakes. Hit a poor shot on 6, missed the green back left. That was the only real mistake I made all day.

 Q. A lot of young kids up there at the top. How much is experience worth on the weekend? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: You were counting me in that, weren't you? I look younger than I am actually. 
 Well, experience counts for a lot around here. This is my 12th Masters, and only just I suppose over the last three or four years have I started to get the hang of it and sort of feel my way around. But yeah, there's a lot of young players up there but that's just golf at the moment. There's a lot of good young players in the world. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT