VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE TODD: Many thanks for joining us again, and with an impressive victory out there, eight birdies through 13, was it.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I birdied the first and the third. He gave me from eight feet on 4, birdied 5, 3-putt 6, birdied 8, birdied 9, birdied 10, missed four feet on 11 for birdie. He birdied 12. I birdied 13. He birdied 14, and then we halved 15 with pars. 8-under through 13 with a bogey.   
 It was a good match. I'm sure if you ask Aaron, he'd say it wasn't that good of a match but it was decent enough golf, and you know, somebody shoots 8-under for 13 holes, not a lot you can do really.   
 STEVE TODD: Overall, first two days, you must be very pleased with how you're playing.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I'm carrying on from the way I played in Indonesia and Korea and want to keep that going. Match play is different, obviously, because you can play well and lose, but you know, I've played well the first couple of days and not really given my opponents much of a sniff.  
 STEVE TODD: Looks like you'll play Ian tomorrow and next round, another tough match, but they are all tough.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: They are all tough. I was looking -- I knew permutations on the way around. You know, being last match out, I suppose you could sort of play it and pick the opponent you want but there's no point in doing that because everybody in the tournament is quite capable of playing great golf and shooting good scores, so you just go out there and try to play as low as you can, which I did and win every match that comes your way.  
 And tomorrow, Ian's won The World Match Play Championship last year in Tucson, so he's a good match-play player. And he's one of those players that, you know, he has a great short game, gets up-and-down a lot and makes quite a few putts. So that can irritate you after a while, so you just have to be patient and play your own game.   
  
  Q. We had five of the eight groups this afternoon where we knew the two players who were going through, the format --  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Just the way it is. You're still playing for the seeds. I'm sure if you ask all of the players, they still went out there trying 110 per cent. All that was on was who was on top of the group, and I think I shot 8-under for 15 holes and Aaron shot 4-under; it's not really golf where you are kind of giving up and you're not really bothered, is it.   
 So that's just the way it is. It's also a good format because it's throwing up things like the three-man playoff. It's not perfect, but you know, no format is. I think it throws up more interesting things.   
  
  Q. Have you ever played Poults before in anything?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Only for a hundred dollars here or there in a practise round.   
  
  Q. Who won that?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I won it at Augusta last time I played. You remember all of the money you take off Ian, because it's hard to get money out of him (laughing).  
  
  Q. You two enjoy winding each other up, I would imagine this would be a match you would particularly like to win?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: You would like to win every match you play, Derek, but I don't think there will be too much winding up that goes on out there. We will both be trying to treat it professionally out there.  
  
  Q. Lots of winding up whoever wins?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I guess so. But that's not something I particularly think about. I'm here doing my job this week, and winding up people is the last thing in my mind. I'm trying to play well and progress through the tournament by beating whoever is in front of me.  
  
  Q. So no Tweets tonight?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, I don't think so. Twitter's getting a bit -- it's losing it's meaning into the sort of stuff that's gone on just recently. It's social media, not social slagging; it seems to have turned into that for some people, having a go at people on Twitter, which is a bit unfortunate.  
  
  Q. Do you think it will ruin it?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, listen, we all get that from the odd idiot here and there. It's just pathetic. I suppose it's there to interact with people and give them an idea of stuff they might not ordinarily be able to engage with, but you know people always take it too far, spoil it.   
  
  Q. Not going to shut down?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not going to shut down, who?   
  
  Q. Your account, Twitter?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't know. I've been thinking about it seriously.   
 STEVE TODD: Thanks for joining us, Lee.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT