OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 11, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How much does the bogey at the last change how you feel about your day?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not at all really. 

 Q. Yesterday you said it was coming --
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not very good. The first couple of days, all right, we're 5-under. I'm striding it very good. Distance control is out and accuracy, as well. I'm not really hitting it close but giving myself chances.

 Q. How much does this course examine the different aspects of the game?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it tests you. It gives you a chance if you hit it well, and the par 5s are pretty much all reachable. So you just need to be on your game.

 Q. A round of 70 today, what was the story? A bit better? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not really. I didn't hit it so good. I didn't give myself enough chances. Just a boring day. 

 Q. And in terms of the actual golf, what was the difference between today and yesterday?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yesterday and today were pretty similar. I'm not hitting it as far as I normally would. Distance control on my irons was poor and I'm not striking it very well. I'm just playing to the fat of the greens really, and trying to make a few long ones, which I haven't, so that's the reason I'm only 5-under.

 Q. Considering that, not bad shape to be in going into the weekend? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, obviously still in there with a chance. Having said that, yesterday, 69; I thought 67 would have been fair, and this morning it was a piece of cake really. You're never going to get it much easier than we had it this morning.

 Q. In terms of the last couple of days, the experience of playing with the top three players in the world, good fun?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, great fun. (Laughter).

 Q. How did it feel today? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'm tired of answering that question (laughing). 

 Q. How about the putting today? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I found them slow at times. Even the downgrain once, I struggled to get to the hole. But that wasn't really the problem; I didn't hit it close enough. 

 Q. Seemed like we saw the old Tiger today?
 LEE WESTWOOD: You'll have to ask him (chuckling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT