ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First competitive round of 2011, give us your thoughts on your play today?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I was delighted. Played well out there. It's not a course I turn up to and immediately think, yeah, this one suits me. It's a course I battle with and struggle with and doesn't really suit my eye. No, I was pleased with the way I went around here today. Hit the ball pretty good and burnt the hole a lot of times, had a lot of chances and nice to make that one on the last. Felt like I deserved to break 70.

 Q. They have added some length and a few bunkers to the course; does that make much difference in the way it plays? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's certainly playing harder. They have narrowed up the fairways which is the biggest difference this year. Fairways are a lot tighter and rough is a lot more severe. Greens are firmer. 
 So I expect 6-under to be leading ends of the day or maybe 13, 14, 15 winning up end of the week.

 Q. You have not taken up your membership with the PGA Tour this year and that limits the number of invites you're allowed to have, and that's causing a problem with the way you'd like to prepare for THE PLAYERS Championship. Tell us a bit about that. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, there will be no preparation for THE PLAYERS Championship because I'm not playing. There's a five-week gap between the Masters and the Match Play in Spain, and I want to play a couple of events in there. And I've said I would support The European Tour this year, so I'm going to Asia and support the tournaments there. 
 If I played the TPC, then I would have no events to play leading up to that, because I can't have an invite for Quail Hollow because I've used up my three with Honda, being in the World Golf Championships, Houston the week before the Masters, and when I'm defending in Memphis. That's just the way it is. You have to adhere to the rules.

 Q. You're world No. 1 and would strengthen the field at THE PLAYERS Championship; are you surprised they aren't able to accommodate you more? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Something I can't control. Like I said at the start of the year, the reason for joining the PGA Tour would be to play in the FedExCup, and that's right in the middle of the summer holidays at home. Right after the PGA Championship, World Golf Championship I want to wind down after those and get ready for the end of the season and obviously try to win the Money List and play well in those events after that. So, you know, just doesn't quite fit in my schedule to be a member over there and over here. You just have to make your own choices. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT