OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 10, 2011
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Bogey at the last but overall how do you feel about your day?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I played all right. I hit a couple of poor shots. Wasn't too easy out there, but 69 is a good score.   
  
  Q. Look like you've been working really hard on your fitness coming into this season and Chubby was saying to me that this week was the first week you felt really sharp on your long game; is that the case?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's not sharp but it's getting better. This is the first week I've concentrated on my long game. Preseason, wanted to get in shape and needed to work hard.  
  
  Q. Top three in the world playing together today; is that something you would like to see more often, playing together?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I like playing with good players. You can read your game off them and I think it's good for The European Tour. It's what everybody is talking about a lot this week. Lots of chat. I've been playing tournaments with Tiger since 1997, so we know each other fairly well.   
  
  Q. What was your impression of his play today?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, you know, it isn't fair to comment on his game because he's trying to change a lot of things. But one of the things you always get from Tiger is he'll grind his back side out there. He made eagle at the last to shoot 1-under.  
  
  Q. Early tee time tomorrow, fresh greens; excited about what's possible?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yes, and obviously you accept in Dubai the wind gets up in the afternoon, and the good scores are going to come from the morning.   
 Yeah, the morning is when you try and make a good score, if I can go out and shoot 5- or 6-under tomorrow, I'll be in good position.   
 I played well. Hit a lot of good shots out there. Made a couple of nice putts, one for par on 15 and a nice one on 16. Kept it under control pretty much all day.  
  
  Q. Looked like lovely control and blemish-free until the end.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I just let my concentration slip at the end on 18. Got disrupted first time I stepped over it and didn't really regain concentration and composure. One of those things.  
  
  Q. Disrupted by, just the noise of the crowd?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: There was a lot going on out there. I won't say any more than that.  
  
  Q. I imagine it was busy all day?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: You just accept that when you play with Tiger. It's going to create a lot of interest. Some people have been on the golf course before. Some people isn't.  
  
  Q. Do you enjoy that experience, though?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it's great, playing with Tiger and Martin. I played with Martin in The Ryder Cup and I've been playing with Tiger for many years. It was fun out there.  
  
  Q. Has not happened with the 1, 2, 3 in the world playing on The European Tour; so you realise you're part of the history and experience.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was good. What can I say? It's the kind of groupings you want to be in. You want to play with good players all the time.  
  
  Q. Do you have an appraisal of how they played?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not really, no.   
  
  Q. Took no notice?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: You have to ask them. My opinion doesn't really matter, how Martin and Tiger played. Both are very good players and both shot nice rounds this afternoon, because it was tricky out there.  
  
  Q. Four shots off, McIlroy played very well, but I imagine you're happy with that overall?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I'm quietly pleased. I would have liked to finish 1-over on the last two holes instead of 1-over and shot 5-under, but I think what you have to understand around here is in Dubai the wind gets up in the afternoon. The greens are not as good in the afternoon; although they were still very good. And the scoring is tougher. You make a score in the morning over the first two days.   
  
  Q. Which means 8:00 start tomorrow, and a chance to do what Rory did?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, all you can hope for is you get a fair break in the weather and it's calm for 13, 14, 15 holes when we play tomorrow, and we can make a few birdies in the morning and move up the leaderboard.  
  
  Q. Overall, the work you've been doing last week and this week, feeling like it's getting there?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, physically feel very strong. And this week is the first week I really have had a chance to work at playing golf, instead of gym work and stuff like that. I'm not completely happy with the way I'm swinging it but certainly moving in the light direction.  
  
  Q. I know all of the talk this week has been about the big three, but Rory is a big threat, always played well here.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, he seems to like this place and he likes playing in the desert, and I would expect Rory to be up there.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT