ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How was it today? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Cold. Windy. Wet. 

 Q. Nice for the strained muscles and the like?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, lovely for them, yeah. 

 Q. What's the fitness report then?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Pretty much the same as it was yesterday. Just struggling with it and probably just going to get through this week and make a decision. 
 Don't like pulling out of tournaments, so I can just keep treating it after play and taking the swelling down.

 Q. Do you have any idea what the decision-making process is going to involve?
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really. Not until Sunday night. Then I'll decide. 

 Q. Does it hurt or when you walk or when you swing or what's worse for it?
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, it's when I walk, going up and down little sharp hills is not particularly nice. Downhill more than uphill really. And then swinging, I'm just consciously thinking about it.

 Q. Do you get any sort of sharp twinges?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah.

 Q. Is there any particular movement --
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, swinging, normally.

 Q. Your gut instinct after this week, you were saying yesterday, you can't do yourself justice; so your gut instinct surely you would want to get it better?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I would say so. And I had a chat, I've got a few mates, Michael Vaughn I was talking to last night about it, he said when you get something like that, you just need to take the time off and make sure it's a 110 per cent when you come back. Obviously I wanted to play last week, so I haven't had a chance to do. And like I said yesterday, it's a case of coming back and doing a lot straightaway and not really easing into it. So you wouldn't really expect much different. 

 Q. Did you speak to Freddie, as well? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: No. Not here. 

 Q. So might be a while before we see you again after Sunday? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Could be, yeah. 

 Q. Was there a close call whether you would play today? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really, because I went and had some treatment on it last night in the physio unit. They are very good in there. And I iced it and the swelling all goes away, and I obviously sleep at night, go to bed with the leg up and it has a nice chance to relax. 
 But then obviously it will be back in the same state now as it was this time yesterday.

 Q. Did you practise before the round?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I hit balls on the range. 

 Q. Is there any worry you could be setting yourself back?
 LEE WESTWOOD: No. It's just a case of I've got it back to about eight per cent and the injury is healed, and there's the scar tissue in there you get, but I need to get it back the 20 percent. Coming back and playing rigours of The Ryder Cup and this week, we have the longer rounds and it's so close to being straight after, it's a lot to ask straightaway.

 Q. Were there any moments today like yesterday coming up the 5th? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, the longer the day, the worse it gets which is fairly obvious. Would you expect that to happen.

 Q. You said you'd gone on the wagon before The Ryder Cup to help recover, are you back on the booze now? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Just celebrated with the team that one night. I wasn't banging in alcohol like I was before, as much as you'd like to portray me as well, the next George Best. But it doesn't do it any good. I was talking to Michael last night, and he had nine months without a drink to get his knee back to where it was. 
 So, you know, it just something you have to do. And I haven't been injured before, so I don't know the process to go through, so I'm learning quickly. 

 Q. So you won't have a drink for a while? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Doesn't look like. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT