ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 7, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Is there a problem with your leg? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I just think I've been doing too much on it basically. Last week was very hard and right on the limit of getting it right. And I think two weeks in a row is probably just too much. In hindsight now, you know, probably should have just played The Ryder Cup and gone back to rehabbing it. 

 Q. Is there a possibility you won't play tomorrow? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't know. I'm going to go and get some treatment on it again and ice it and see how it is. But I don't want to get back to where it was. It's improved a lot, but it's still not right. 
 So just have to play it by ear I guess.

 Q. Bearing that in mind, how do you feel about your day's play?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I can't hold my weight on the right side. I just want to get off it as fast as possible, so it's unfair to try and give an appraisal. Every time I got up into the wind, I got too steep on it because I just wanted to get off my right side as fast as I could.

 Q. Is Steve MacGregor here with you?
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, he's not. He can't be here this week. So the staff in the physio unit, they are very good, and I have my compression and ice machine. So we'll see how things go overnight. 

 Q. Reflecting on last week's Ryder Cup for a moment, fifth time you've been on a winning team, are they all special in different ways? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, even the ones -- the losing teams I've been on have been very special. The Ryder Cup is a special week. It's an honour to play but it makes it even more special obviously if you win. 

 Q. Did one shot set it off again?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I felt it coming on walking off the 7th tee, a really steep downslope off the 7th tee, and just -- that's what I can only put it down to. 

 Q. Would you equate it to how it was at St. Andrews? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, it's really aching. Like I'm doing too-much-too-soon type of thing. 

 Q. So it's not like another tear, just warning you, basically? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah. We'll see how things go. 

 Q. Obviously you must feeling very, very frustrated at this point. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it's frustrating. Playing great up until the injury. And haven't had any chance to practise since then, and that's frustrating in itself, to play to the best of your ability, you need to work hard, and I'm just not able to do that at the moment with my leg as it is.

 Q. Did adrenaline get you through last week, do you think? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I think so. And I was warned by Steve and Chubby and a few others not to flog myself and to -- don't be a martyr and try to play five matches. I didn't play five matches but I still played four days and it was a hilly golf course. And this is a hilly golf course and this is probably the hilliest golf course out of the three of these, which is obviously tough. I didn't hit any balls on Tuesday and I didn't do anything on Wednesday, I just hit a few balls in the afternoon. 
 So that tells you that I'm trying to take it easy on it a little bit. 

 Q. What does he say long-term?
 LEE WESTWOOD: He says it won't be right for six months.

 Q. Is it the sort of thing that you can have surgery on? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: No. I think surgery will probably make it worse, start cutting things up, and you get even more problems. It's just a case of rehabbing it and resting again. That's all I can imagine I think.

 Q. The fact that you made a decent start, looking back on the decision you made --
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't want to be stupid. That's the problem. You know, I made a mistake two months ago going and playing in the Bridgestone when it wasn't right. I should have stopped after the Open. The Open was the biggest tournament of the year. And I didn't rest it and rehab it after the Open when I should have done. 
 It's difficult, because I've never been injured before, so I don't know how to approach anything, you know, how careful I've got to be, so I'm just taking everybody's advice.

 Q. So Steve says you can play a normal tournament schedule but it won't be right for six months? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I think so. I think he would probably like me to take a rest and not play at all. And it be perfectly honest, if I keep coming back and it's not right and when I'm away from the golf course, all I'm able to do is rehab and not practise as I'd wish, I'm not able to play to the best of my ability. And I don't think that's -- I don't think I'm being fair on myself to be perfectly honest. 

 Q. Essentially, you're compromised by your condition.
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, you're compromised with any injury. The problem is it's down my right leg and my right leg is quite key into swinging the golf club. 

 Q. No reason why you couldn't take Christmas off. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, all of the big tournaments are gone now. I've missed the fourth biggest tournament of the year, in my calendar, the PGA and I got myself back to The Ryder Cup and didn't let anybody down. So there is no reason why I couldn't. 

 Q. But given your priorities, the last thing you want is to get to March next year and you still --?
 LEE WESTWOOD: The most important thing for me right now is being in good physical condition with my game right where I want it for the Masters next year like I did this year. 

 Q. If it had finished on Sunday night, if you had gone out, done it yesterday, would you have pulled out --
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I probably would have done. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT