DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 28, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Fourth Round 68. 13-Under. 275 Total.  
   
  Q. When you birdied 14, 15, and 16, got yourself right into position, what were you thinking? What were you feeling?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I thought I got a chance. I didn't really deserve to have a chance, the amount of shots I've squandered all week. It's just not been like me at all. I've been very sloppy out there, especially on the greens. And you know, that is just how the week went.   
 Rallied and made three great birdies, and a good up-and-down at 17 and good position at 18, just turned it over too much, tried to hold it against a left-to-right wind. Just one of them things. First week back after two weeks off again, so you know, can't be too disappointed I suppose.  
  
  Q. Being that you've played so little competitive golf, was it nice to feel the buzz again?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: But to be honest, that's been happening every time have played and come out, I've had a chance to win the tournament. So probably going to come up one or two short again but to say I'm very undercooked, it's pretty good stuff.  
  
  Q. How encouraged are you by the fact you've shown this sort of form with lack of competitive sharpness, how good are you going to be when you get competitively sharp?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Hopefully very good. My game is rusty. I hit shots that I wouldn't normally hit, so hopefully when I do have a chance to practise properly and sharpen up, there will be improvements.   
  
  Q. Are you disappointed?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: A little bit disappointed but still a pretty good defense. I haven't maximised my chances this week, so you know, if you don't do that, you're not going to win golf tournaments.  
  
  Q. How pleased are you with your season, 2010, forced to take a break but you've got The Ryder Cup, World Ranking No. 1 how do you see that?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Satisfied and disappointed at the same time. I was on a real roll in June, and I played great for the start of the season and I got injured and it set me back a lot. Fortunately, when I've come back, I've been competitive again.  
  
  Q. And one last question about Martin, he has had a fantastic year this year, Europe's No. 1, what can you say about his performance this year?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: He's had a great year. He's achieved I think all he wanted to achieve. As he said, he wanted to win a Major Championship and he wanted to win the Money List. He's done both of those so he has every right to -- I'd be cracking over the champagne if I were him.  
  
  Q. You've had injuries, but also world No. 1; you must take some pride in that?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Whenever you get to world No. 1, you can't be too disappointed. But the way I was going at the start of the season, really excited and looking forward to the rest of the year and that's one of those things that happens in professional sport now and again. You just have to ride those breaks and try to come out the other side as best you can.  
  
  Q. How much have your injuries been troubling you the last few weeks?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not so much the last few weeks. Having said that, it was aching a little bit today. I don't think the heat does it too much good. But I will take the precautions and I'm able to play with it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT