WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 7, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Fourth Round 67 (-18) 270 Total.  
   
  Q. In the end, you just came up a fraction short.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I'm not sure how to think about that. I hit a lot of good shots today. A couple of poor ones. I had a bit of bad luck. One of those things. I mean, 18-under par and nine shots clear of third is never too bad.   
 It was a little disappointing hitting 5-iron to the last, I can't believe it got up that slope from where it landed. I expected it to be running down like three or four feet. Just needed the breaks to win and didn't happen.   
  
  Q. There's so many positives to take from this, but just being straight back on to the horse, if you like, and into the thick of the action, that's huge.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I felt rusty the first couple of days. I made two bogeys during the week and none on the weekend. That's pretty good after three weeks off hardly hitting the ball.  
  
  Q. I have to ask you about the shot into 16, the wedge there. It was a delicate, awkward one, wasn't it.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I couldn't have left it in a worse spot. I got a bit unlucky with a 3-wood, it hit the back of the trap and it had gone 290 yards; I don't hit 3-wood that far. It hit the back of the trap and shot forward and left me in the worst spot. Stopped where it landed, and I've got a pretty easy chip at the green. Just one of those breaks I didn't get.   
  
  Q. You began the week wondering if you would hang onto this world No. 1 spot, simply because of the nature of the rankings at the moment and the fact that three of your rivals were here, to have done that and given yourself a bit more distance, as well?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, it wasn't really about the rankings. It was about trying to win this week. The rankings come as a consequence of playing well, and I'm playing well and I know I am. Today is just very typical of how I've played for the last two years.   
  
  Q. I know you're sick of talking about the ankle, but how did it stand up?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Got better as the week went on. Feels great. I'm having a couple of weeks off to now just to keep working at it and edge my way back into it, because I don't want to go to Singapore and do too much on it next week. And I'll be back, going to Dubai, hopefully playing as well as I played here.   
  
  Q. With a loss of positives?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, no negatives in a performance like that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT