THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Give us an overall view of your day. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, my day would suggest that I played very solidly. I didn't make a bogey out there. I made 17 pars and one birdie. I just didn't get as much out of my round as I should have done, as yesterday was the case, too. I shot 67 yesterday and should have really been a 64, and shot 71 today and should have really been a 66. But that's the way it goes occasionally. It felt like I hit quite a lot of good putts that didn't go in. And I'm in a good position for the weekend, I think.

 Q. How did the weather affect today?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, it's pretty easy for the first six or seven holes. There wasn't too much wind out there. It was very scorable. If you got off to quick start you could make a score. Miguel, who I was playing with, birdied the first three holes and missed on the last for 66, so it was still very scorable. 
 But obviously the wind picked up a little bit on the back nine, and then it's tricky on that crosswind to get it close to the hole. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, that sort of thing tests your patience, as it was out there. 

 Q. Did 18 test your patience?
 LEE WESTWOOD: About as much as 18 tested my patience yesterday when I three-putted it. You learn to get used to those things as a golfer. It happens quite a lot. 

 Q. Isn't that part of what the majors are all about is testing your patience every round?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it can be, yeah. It's a mental battle as well as a physical battle. That's what major championships are. 

 Q. How's your ankle today? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'm going to give you the same answers I give you every day. It's exactly the same as it was yesterday. Just as the day goes on, I've walked six or seven miles today, my ankle swells up and just gradually gets a bit sore as the day goes on. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really. It was 7:00 at night and I iced it for 45 minutes, and I went to dinner and I didn't want to have dinner at quarter to 10:00 at night when I had to be up at quarter to 6:00. It was either you or the ice machine, and I'm afraid you lost. I'll tell you what, I'll put the ice machine on and you'll see how painful it is. It will not make you feel very good.

 Q. If the wind continues today some of the afternoon scores are going to come down, wouldn't you think?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I would be surprised if Louis stays leading at the end of the day. All you really ask for of a golfer playing in the Open is a bit of parity, really. I don't know how much harder the afternoon was yesterday than the morning, somewhere probably between two or three shots. If the afternoon today plays two or three shots harder than the morning, that's all you can ask for.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, that was Billy's idea, yeah. I probably would have chipped it in, yeah.

 Q. In this condition with the wind picking up, is there going to be a worse half of the draw?
 LEE WESTWOOD: We'll know more in six or seven hours' time.

 Q. That's a big part of this championship, though, you can get the bad side?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, you can break it down and the draw does play a big part in the Open Championship. You just hope it's not too drastic a change, which this may not be. 

 Q. Are you pleased with where you are or ahead of where you thought you might be at this stage?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'm behind where I ought to be. I should really be 10-under at worst. But I didn't play last week. I didn't really hit any balls, either. But I knew I was hitting the ball well, so there was not really any need to do too much practising. I'm just a bit rusty on the greens, which I might expect. We can sharpen it over the weekend, and no matter what the conditions are, I've still got a couple good scores in me.

 Q. Do you think you'll be able to forget all this and say, I'm still in a pretty good spot?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'm probably the world's best sleeper.

 Q. Does that help in this situation?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't know. Depends what kind of lie-in I've got in the morning. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LEE WESTWOOD: Were the rounds close together? Yeah, probably early-late would have been better. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I've got a bit more time this afternoon to get treatment on it and ice it. I'll be able to ice it two or three times for the rest of today probably. It should be all right for tomorrow. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I mean, you have to be wary of it. There's certain points out there where -- there's short, steep slopes where my foot gets into that position, it stretches it out more. That's when I get a twinge up in my calf. I don't know what it's doing, but it doesn't feel very comfortable. I'm a bit wary and cautious about it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT