ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How would you assess your play today?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Pretty good for a practise round. I haven't played so you do forget how the course is going to play. I didn't really get the pace of the greens very well, which is down to lack of playing it, really. 
 Played okay. 

 Q. How do you feel the course was set up? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Good. There's penalties if you hit it off-line and you get rewarded for hitting it straight. If you hit good shots, you can get it close. Never too disappointed with shooting 2-under par on this course.

 Q. Can you just explain how it was out there, no problem at all? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was a bit sore, a bit stiff but other than that, nothing life-threatening. 

 Q. Golf course is said to be firming up; is that a good thing in terms of preparation with the British Open coming up, because obviously similar types of conditions?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, certainly if it firms up, it will be good preparation for The Open Championship. 

 Q. I understand you are not going to play next week, Loch Lomond, how are you going to spend that time?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Getting ready for The Open Championship at St. Andrews. I've got the two-day Pro-Am on Monday and Tuesday, and then spend the rest of the week gearing up for St. Andrews. Go up and play a practise round some day during the week next week, get a feel for it, try to work my way into it easy and get ready to go Thursday. 

 Q. So how are you feeling?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Ankle is swelling up. Just one of them things I think. 

 Q. You were concerned. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: You just want it clearing up, don't you.

 Q. What do you think caused it? The heat doesn't make legs swell up. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't think that's it. I think I have an injury in there somewhere, either my or Achilles. Age, probably -- you must have plenty (laughing). 

 Q. If we weren't on the countdown to St. Andrews, The Open, would you have missed this? Would it have been a different scenario?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not really. Depends on what the doctor suspected. I was always going to play. It just gets sore as the day goes on. I don't think it affects the way I swing it. It's sorest when I'm walking. 

 Q. Will you have it looked at when you get back home?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I've had it looked at before. I think all it needs is rest probably. 

 Q. Which you're not going to be able to give it at the moment?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not until after The Open. I have a couple of weeks off after that and put my feet up. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT