WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 5, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. So much of the game is momentum and right off the bat both you and Tiger struggled early and never seemed to really get it going.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I birdied one after two holes but then hit a couple really poor shots. I didn't get to do much practicing after the Open Championship. I've not done a lot in the two weeks due to my leg and ankle. It wasn't too much of a surprise not to get it going around here. If you don't play well around this golf course, you get what you deserve.  
  
  Q. It's a difficult golf course especially with the cross winds like today. Will you hit some balls afterwards to try to work on the game or is the ankle still a little sore?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I'm going to hit a couple but I'm going to try to go get some treatment. It swells up as the day goes on and gets a bit sore as the round progresses.  
  
  Q. Not the easiest walk on TOUR, but hopefully you'll get a little bit better and tomorrow is a whole new day, weather is supposed to be perfect the next three days.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I was a little bit rusty today and hopefully I'm just going to shake it off as the week goes along and hopefully improve. 71 is by no means out of it. Tomorrow is the morning round, so there will be better conditions tomorrow, greens will be smooth, and just got to take advantage of that.   
 Today I made probably three bogeys I shouldn't have made and I'm looking at 68 if I make pars there. All in all, not too disappointed. I didn't really expect to get too much out of today. Like I said, I haven't put enough work in.  
  
  Q. How is the ankle?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's not great. I'm kind of struggling a long with it a little bit. But it's all right at the start of the day and it gets worse as the day goes on, and unfortunately when I'm not playing tournaments I'm not able to put the hard work in, and golf is a game where you only get out what you put in.  
  
  Q. Is it just a question of resting it?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: It is, yeah. I might have the opportunity after these two weeks to give it some proper rest, but we'll see.  
  
  Q. Not the kind of round we'd expect from Tiger around here, was it?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, we both struggled a little bit to get anything going. If you don't play well on this golf course, you're going to find it tough.  
  
  Q. That didn't have any bearing on your round?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I mean, you know, you get days like that. We were both pretty much in the same boat. The last two weeks we've been off, and for varying reasons we've not been able to do the hard work that we would have liked to have done. I heard Tiger say that yesterday, and certainly that's the case for me. It's a difficult golf course if you're not on your game.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT