THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LEE WESTWOOD: Played pretty average, didn't strike the ball so well. You know, obviously it gets harder, and then not making birdie at 16 was obviously pivotal. And then the flag on 17, it was always going to be a big pitching wedge. 

 Q. Talk about how conditions changed. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: The course was a little bit easier over the first couple days, and the way I was striking it, I just couldn't get away with it. As it got harder over the last couple of days, you really needed to be on your game.

 Q. Tim Clark obviously got it going around the middle of his round. Did you believe what you were seeing? It was so difficult out there and he made five birdies. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really. The flags were definitely accessible today. They tucked a couple away. But like 10 you could hold in there and 11 was a birdie chance, 12 was a birdie chance, so there were chances out there, you just had to play well.

 Q. Despite not coming out on top this time around, what positives do you take out of the week?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Just I didn't really feel like I played that great all week and was quite proud to be in the lead going into the last day. I'll keep working on the things I've been working on, just trying to get a bit better for next time. 

 Q. I know it's not the way you were hoping it was going to turn out, but still a pretty good week overall. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I didn't play very good over the weekend. I played pretty good the first two days, but as the course toughened up, I wasn't striking the ball solidly enough and didn't really get many chances.

 Q. Tell me how difficult the conditions were when you teed off this afternoon as far as wind and green speeds. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it was really tough out there. They got the greens really firm and crusty and exceptionally fast. When you start lagging it from eight and nine feet, you know the greens are fast.

 Q. The part of your game that you were happiest with this week and the part of your game that you're going to go away and work on a little bit more. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, not completely happy with any part of my game. I played okay, but it all needs fine-tuning. 
 I felt like I struggled over the weekend. I felt like when the course was soft over the first couple of days, I wasn't in control the first couple of days, but I could just about get away with it. I was surprised to be 12-under par actually. As the course toughened up, you needed to hit more fairways, have more control of the golf ball, and I just didn't have that today.

 Q. You were saying the first couple of days you weren't as sharp as you were at the Masters. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, probably not. 

 Q. How difficult is this golf course when you get out of position? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, it becomes very difficult. It's a positional golf course, so you need to be in the fairways and plot from there. Depending on the flag positions, then you go for it or you play away from the flags.

 Q. You still had a chance coming to 16. You had to think that putt was in. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I mean, it was just another rubbish iron shot with 5-iron in there. I mean, I should have able to hit that and it just drifted in there on the wind and it was a low cut really that didn't even carry the trap which was only about 198 yards to carry. It wasn't the hook that was to blame, it was the poor iron shot.

 Q. And 17, what happened there?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, that was tricky with yardage, and I was caught right between a little 9-iron and forcing a wedge, and I just hit a wedge and it climbed up into the wind, and on that line it was never going to carry.

 Q. How disappointing is it knowing you had this one in your sights?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Disappointed, but not something I'm going to pull my hair out over. If you don't play well, you don't deserve to win, and I just didn't play well over the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT