MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Lee Westwood, runner-up in the 2010 Masters Tournament with 13-under par, 275, just a splendid competitor. Lee, maybe if you can give us a few comments about the round after which we will take just a few questions.
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I didn't get off to a fast start like I would have wished today really, being one shot in the lead, I got 2- or 3-under through seven or eight holes, and maybe it would have been a different result. But didn't quite drive the ball as well over the first few holes. And obviously bogeyed 1 and 4, and 3-putted 9, which was a bit of a disappointment because I hit a couple of good shots there. 
 Played well on the back nine, it's not easy when you're under pressure, shot 34. Had some good chances coming in. Wanted to put Phil under some pressure. The only disappointing thing on the back nine was not birdieing 15 after two good shots there. I got a real hard bounce with a 6-iron that was coming almost out of the clouds, and it still released through the back. And thought I hit a good chip but just checked up on me a bit and hit a little spike mark on my line and hit it and the putt went straight left. That was the only disappointing thing on the back nine. 
 Hit a nice 7-iron into 16; two good shots into 17 close; two real good shots into the last, so I tried to put a bit of pressure on Phil. But he played well on the back nine and took his chances when he had a bit of luck and hit some great shots when he needed to. 

 Q. You're obviously disappointed, but was this one perhaps Phil won it rather than you losing it?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I think so. I shot 71, at the end of the day, which is not a terrible score around Augusta when you're in the lead. Phil shot 67, which generally wins major championships when people are there or thereabouts going into the last round. He hit good shots when he needed to around the back nine. He could quite easily have eagled 13. 
 So, yeah, I think Phil won that one fair and square. 

 Q. Third, second, and second in your last three majors, the door has to open soon. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I would hope. So Phil was just saying in the scoring hut after we had finished that he'd been that man kept knocking on the door, finishing seconds and thirds and wonder if it ever does and suddenly it does and winning majors becomes easier in your own mind. He says, "I've been playing some of the best golf out of anybody recently," and just to keep plugging away and eventually it will happen.

 Q. Did you have a look at the shot Phil faced on 13? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I was right behind him, but behind a different tree. (Laughter).
 Yeah, I mean, it's one of the few shots, really, that only Phil could pull off. I think most people would have just chipped that one out. But, you know, that's what great players do, like I said yesterday, pull off great shots at the right time. 

 Q. Think of a better one you've seen?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not around here, no. It was something special. To not finish off with an eagle is quite surprising. You don't see that normally.

 Q. Were you as nervous here today, more, less?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I wasn't nervous at all. It was amazing out there. Before the round, I was excitedly nervous but once we got out there and got going, I felt really calm and just enjoyed the experience. You know, the crowd were obviously on Phil's side more than nine but they were very respectful and they clapped both of us on to the greens and clapped us when we hit good shots. You know, it was a good day on the golf course out there. 

 Q. Phil --
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'm Lee. Phil is coming in in a minute. He'll be wearing a green jacket. (Laughter). Sorry, John, it's age. 

 Q. I knew that was coming, too. I've retired; go on, rub it in. How does this 13-under here compare with 24-under in December and November, and could you have done as well here as you have done if you had not played as well in it Dubai? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I think it certainly helped. Any time you play well under pressure like that with so much riding on it, it stands you in good stead for the next time you're under a similar amount of pressure. I've never come close to getting to 13-under around here. I think previous best had been about 4. I would like to think I'm getting the hang of the golf course. 
 I think coming last week before Houston obviously helped. I think having Billy on the bag helped. I'm gradually -- it's a bit like St. Andrews, really. I'm gradually appreciating the course and -- well, not appreciating, but appreciating where to hit it and get away with it and being able to get up-and-down from. 

 Q. As you get closer, does your desire, is it getting greater all the time to win this first major?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, very much so, increases, the closer I get to winning these major championships, the more I want the next one to come around, Pebble Beach. 
 No, it's obviously, when you've come close, there's a tinge of disappointment straight off. I was disappointed walking up to the last green, obviously. But once that's passed, I didn't do too much wrong today. I can walk away with a lot of positive thoughts and memories from this Masters. 

 Q. I was just going to ask your thoughts on Pebble Beach and St. Andrews which are the next two?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'm looking forward it. If you sat me down at the start of the year and asked me to rate which ones suit me, I would probably put the Masters last and say it was the one that suited me the least. So to finish second is obviously a massive boost for the rest of the year. 
 I've just got to keep doing the things I'm doing. I think my short game can still improve, even though it's a lot lot better, it was a master class from Phil out there around the greens. That's the sort of standard you've got to be up to. 

 Q. Is there anything left to learn, or have you learned it and it's now just a matter of getting a break?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't think you ever stop learning. Although I wouldn't have done anything differently today, really. 
 But you know, technically, I think I can still get better in all aspects of the game, and just fine tune everything. It's a very fine line between finishing second and winning. 
 So you know, it's just haven't got to get lured into the thought that you have to do something drastic. I think I just have to keep working on what I'm working on with Pete and going to the gym and getting stronger. Law of averages says the door is going to open one day. 

 Q. Just Pebble, have you played there a lot?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I've played there a little bit. Last time the U.S. Open was there, I finished fifth, so I'll be looking forward to that. I've always played well on the West Coast in the U.S. Open. 
 THE MODERATOR: Congratulations on a great tournament. 






3




1



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT