BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. First of all, the first, what was wrong with the bunker? Was it the sand underneath it?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: What's right with any of them? They are very difficult for the caddies to rake because they are so severe. The edges around them are severe, and then in the bottoms, there's tons of sand. They have a real tough job raking them. I feel sorry for them this week.  
  
  Q. You knew that the moment you got there, didn't you.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was shocking, yeah. You're like fourth, fifth out, and obviously there's been a couple of people in there before you, and you just accept that they are hard to rake.   
  
  Q. Well, is that just the steepness of the slopes?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, and the amount of sand that's in them, yeah. That's what happens with new bunkers.  
  
  Q. Was that the problem with 15, as well?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, they are very inconsistent. You are not sure how much sand is in them. You felt like there was a ton in there, which there actually was when I sort of where wriggled in to get a stance. I then just tried -- because it was a long bunker shot, I was trying to take it a bit clean and just got it a bit too clean.   
  
  Q. Wait to see now?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'm not too bothered really. I wasn't swinging very well at start of the week, and I haven't hit the ball very well these two days.   
 So, you know, considering that the last two years I've just gone back, packed my suitcase and headed off; having to hang around is a real accomplishment.  
  
  Q. When you said the changes have helped --  
 LEE WESTWOOD: And they did. I've gone from two 77s to two 72s. It's a positive move in the right direction.   
  
  Q. What do you think of the greens setup today?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I thought it was all right. Why, what's wrong with them?   
  
  Q. Six pretty tough ones.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: That's what they should be, six hard, six easy, six average.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT