BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How would you assess your play today?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I think I can get around this golf course now in under par, not too disappointed. I didn't hit it great today. Made a couple of errors, and I thought, you know, certainly a stiffer test than it used to be.  
  
  Q. 18th hole you drove it in the bunker, which presumably made your decision for you, but what was the plan?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: To try and drive into the bunker and have the decision taken out of my hands.   
  
  Q. You weren't trying to drive it in the sand.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, I hit the tee shot better than I expected to, and if it was in the fairway, I was going to lay it up and pitch it on.   
  
  Q. Does your game plan for this course evolve as you get more rounds and more experience?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, you certainly form different opinions on the golf course and adapt as the week goes on, I'm sure, yeah.   
  
  Q. You were presented with the players' award the other night; how much did that mean to you?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: That meant an awful lot. I think any time you get voted to win something by your fellow professionals, the people that you work with week-in and week-out and do understand the game more than most, that's obviously very special.   
  
  Q. Looking forward to getting out tomorrow with some fresh greens and some chances?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it's a decent start to get off to. It's well in there, and you know, I would imagine it plays slightly easier in the morning.   
  
  Q. 70 today, your impressions of the way you first tackled the new West Course?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I did not hit it as well as I would have liked to have done. The swing has felt a bit off since coming back from the Masters, and you need to be on your game now, because this is certainly a stiffer test than it used to be.  
  
  Q. What is proving most taxing about the new layout when you find yourself in the heat of championship competition?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I think for everybody, first and foremost, it's been dropped from 72 to 71 with the 12th playing as a par 4. So every score is one worse under par than it used to be.   
 The greens are trickier. Some greens are easier. I think of 3, 7, 14, the ones with the big tiers. But there are a lot harder -- the finish is a lot tougher than it used to be. There are not such obvious chances for birdie and an occasional chance for eagle on the last two holes now. And there's more trouble around the golf course I think.   
  
  Q. In general terms, when you're out there, as well, No. 3, highest-ranked player in the field here obviously, are you reminded of this on a constant basis out there and does it cross your mind now?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, not at all. That's something that comes as a consequence of playing well, winning tournaments and performing well in these big events so you don't go out with World Rankings in mind. You go out there with each shot in mind, each hole in mind, each round in mind and obviously at the end of the week, you hope you play well enough to hold up the trophy.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT