THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You actually said after the Masters that that would make you stronger yet again. It looks like you're proving it.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I keep coming back, don't I? Don't keep knocking me. I'm not going to go away, I'm just going to keep trying until one of them goes my way.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible.)  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I think it was a matter of short game from 100 yards in. He'll be watching that in 50 years' time marveling what a great shot it was. But the up-and-downs on 9, 10 and 5 are things that win you major championships.   
 The putts that I made today -- I only really holed two putts. I missed a couple. But they're the kind of momentum things that (indiscernible.)  
  
  Q. Talk about playing with the young guys today.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was quite funny listening to them talk because they talked about things I talked about 16, 17 years ago. You've just got to beat whoever is there in front of you, so it doesn't matter how old they are, whether it's Kenny Perry, Vijay Singh, Tom Watson at 60 in the Open Championship, these guys at 21, 22, it makes no difference, really.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible.)  
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, I think it means a lot. There's a lot of things that I'm working on, but the nice thing about the things that I'm working on on the range is I can take them onto the golf course quite easily. If I don't hit it quite so well like I did last week, I can go out on the range for a couple of hours there and get at least a little bit better where I feel like I can score from.  
  
  Q. Does it surprise you that this is Molinari's first time on this golf course --  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not at all, no.  
  
  Q. 35 out of 36 greens in regulation, quite astounding.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: That's the strength of his game. I think he would have found it harder playing for the first time here in March. You can find yourself in trouble a lot easier in March than short-siding yourself in certain places where you can't get up-and-down.   
  
  Q. Have you played with him before?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I've played a lot with him, yeah. He's a nice player.   
  
  Q. Can you remember, is this the lowest under par you've been for one round in America? You shot 65 at the WGC in '08, I think, but that was only 5-under.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I shot 63 there, as well, at the Bridgestone, and I shot 65 there before.   
  
  Q. You've talked about being a better player. Does fourth in the world mean more to you today than it did back then? Do you have better appreciation of what it's about?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really. I'm happy with it.  
  
  Q. I just thought it was a deeper appreciation.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not really, no. I work hard, so...  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT