WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 17, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How do you feel about the way you played?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I played steady. I wouldn't say I played great. I used the experience in a couple of places. Chris gave me a couple of holes that he shouldn't have done. I kind of feel like I skated on a couple of holes. It was one of those match play games where I was always in front.

 Q. Coming into this championship in great form, which you haven't previously done, and your record hasn't been great in this championship, do you feel different coming in this year?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not really. I played today like I played in the previous years. I can't figure out why I've not done that well because I've never played that great. 
 Hopefully as the week goes on I'll improve, and set a record and go further and get in the third round.

 Q. Give us a sense on how that golf course has been playing today. Players have been telling us flags are tucked away, other players have been shooting incredible numbers. How is the golf course today? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it's one of those kind of golf courses that lulls you a false sense of security. You look at it and say I'm going to have to shoot 3-under to take it through 18. You take the flags away and you really don't need to. If you get out of position, this becomes a tricky golf course.

 Q. Steve McGregor, your fitness man, was out with you in the Middle East. Pushing you hard. Any butter, any booze? Do you remember the last time you had butter or booze?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not in quite some time. He allowed me to drink Sunday night after the Dubai, not sure if it is because he felt I needed it or I deserved it. But that's it. So I'm feeling good. I've lost a bit of weight. And getting a lot stronger over time. And this is the ideal week to test it all out, because these can be long days. And hopefully I'll be able to test it out by getting into the weekend.

 Q. You've been in fabulous form. Can you wait for The Masters to come, do you wish it was right now? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: This is a massive tournament, so I'd like to concentrate on what I'm doing this week. The Masters is a couple of months away, and admittedly my schedule up to The Masters I'm going to rest a bit. The tournaments I am playing with massive, heavy World Ranking points and tournaments I'd love to win. I've never won once in the States, and I'd like to make that sooner or later. 

 Q. How would you assess your match today?
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was a bit scrappy, but after the first five holes I felt like I took control of it. I got through it through nine. Chris came back and made a couple of birdies on 10 and 11. And I missed one on 11 from about four feet to halve. Really just cat and mouse, just good enough to win the match. Which sometimes what you have to do in match play. 

 Q. You're going to halve a couple if you want to get into the weekend. Has your form from what you've had so far this year, carried over to here?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'd like to think so. I've done well in stroke play events really by just eating away at them. I'm that kind of player, I don't really sort of explode in three or four rounds. I have a little bit of problem in the match play events because they're all 18-holes, just a short period of time and you really have to be fast off the mark. That's sometimes a problem for me. You've got to understand in your own mind you're going to have close matches. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT