OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 6, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Lee, thanks for coming in, 68 today, satisfied with that. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Satisfied with that. Yeah, I think after being 1-over through six, 68 is a decent score. I didn't get off to too fast a start, which I would have liked to have done. Had a couple of chances early on, hit a sloppy 3-iron into 3. But all in all, 68 is about fair. That's about how I played. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: And at the top of the leaderboard, again, in Dubai. Looking forward to tomorrow, I would imagine in.
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, any time I'm in contention, that gets me buzzing and excited. That's why you practise, like I said before, you put the hard work to try to get into contention and win tournaments and prove yourself under pressure. 

 Q. Second week running, you're in contention, feeling better this time than last time? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, my equipment is more in order. This time last week, I was just off the lead but with no driver. So I'm feeling a lot better, yeah. (Smiling).

 Q. So confident of finishing the job?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, confident that if I keep playing the way I am and get off to a quick start tomorrow, I'm going to have a chance coming down last nine holes. You never know what's going to happen. 
 There's lots of good players up there. Alvaro is up there, all of the guys are up there. There's so many people within I think three or four shots of the lead. I've even come from six, seven, eight back, so I know what's possible. 
 It will be a little bit of a birdie-fest, if it stays like this tomorrow. Hopefully there will be a little bit of wind, but like I said on TV just now, I'm going to try and do what I did at Dubai World Championship, go out and shoot the lowest score of the day. 
 It looks like I'm in the last group tomorrow tied for the lead; if I shoot the lowest round of the day, I win. Simple as that. 

 Q. Will you take the same attitude that you took in the Dubai World Championship, not looking at the leaderboard, just concentrate on yourself? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't look at leaderboards but every now and again I will. But I won't be looking at what anybody else is doing. I'm just be looking at the position I'm in. If it says "Westwood" at the top, I'll be happy. I won't look any further down. 

 Q. Would you set out to play aggressively or defensively?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'll play aggressively. I think with so many people -- conservatively aggressively. I think I won't do anything stupid, but I'll shoot at the flags that need to be shot at, and play to the centre of the greens on ones that are sucker flags. 

 Q. When you compare the two Dubai events after the three rounds, would you say you're playing better this week?
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, I flushed it in Dubai. This week I've just played okay. First round, didn't hit it that great. I was in much more control at the Dubai World Championship. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT