MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Yesterday you told me the reason you felt you could compete here and contend here for the title, you knew when to attack and when not to attack and play more conservative. Do you feel you played your round that way today?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I stuck to the same game plan again. Messed up once on 14 but paid the consequences there with a double, but other than that I was happy with the way the day went.  
  
  Q. You've never led a major, and you're the co-leader right now. Do you like that pressure? Do you like that position or would you rather be coming from a shot or two behind?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I've led a few majors.  
  
  Q. At the end of a round?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, I don't know about that, but I've led a few majors.  
  
  Q. What I meant was at the end of a round you've never led a major. You're the co-leader at the halfway point. Do you like that position?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it's the best position to be in, so that's what I set out for at the start of the week, to get up there by the lead. If you're going to win the tournament, you've got to be in the lead at some stage.  
  
  Q. If the scores hold the way they are, there's the probability you and Ian will play together tomorrow. I know you're good friends. What will that be like? Will that help you or hurt you, or will it be a non-factor?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't see it hurting in any way. I don't think it'll be a factor at all. If anything it'll help, but as golfers we go out there and concentrate on our own ball and not what the other guys do.  
  
  Q. So there wouldn't be any additional kibitzing or talking or communicating while you're playing?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't think so.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts about your first 36 holes?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I played well, hit the ball great, only a couple of poor shots, which you're going to do around here. It tests you to the limit. You know, I'm delighted with the position I'm in and looking forward to the weekend.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT