SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 1, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Lee, you hit 14 greens. Really not a whole lot of trouble for you?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I was in trouble once, really.  
  
  Q. 13, you made one putt.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I pulled my tee shot. Stuff, the wind was hard off the right. I didn't want to leak it out to the right into the trap and just turned it a bit too much.   
 But other than that, played really solid. I had one nice putt on 9 from about 50 feet. But other than that, I guess I missed more than I made.  
  
  Q. You made a bunch of them. Did you lay back with that 3-wood at 18 to lay back?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I didn't really mean to leave it that far back. Toe skyed it, left me with a lot, probably of the best shot of the day, 6-iron from 213 yards. I played solid all day. I hit 14 greens, and the other ones I missed were just on the edge.  
  
  Q. This is really a good set-up for next week because it gives you those shots from off the edge that you're going to see next week.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yes. You don't really want to be playing shots from around the edge on this golf course. You want to hit as many greens as possible. That's great to have a chance to win the tournament, which is my priority for this week.   
 The Shell Houston Open is a big title to win. Lot of things for the tournament. Good champions. I've never won it. Twelve years since I've won in the States.   
 My main priority this week is to do well in this tournament, but at the same time a good warm-up for the next week. The speed of the greens are similar. Gives you a test with some shots we might have next week.  
  
  Q. You've won all over the world. Has it bugged you it's been 12 years since you've won here? You come over here quite a bit now.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I only play eight, nine events here every year. I feel like I would have won more recently. I've had my chances. I've spent a couple of years in Europe without winning. It's very fickle. All you can do is keep putting yourself in position and get a chance.  
  
  Q. You feel good about your game?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Very solidly. The results haven't reflected the way I've played. I'm happy with the way I'm hitting it. Hopefully, if I can keep playing like that, I'll have a chance the next couple of weeks.  
  
  Q. Lee, you must be delighted with all this stuff.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was good stuff today. I think this is a golf course you have to play patiently, you know, position yourself around. There's danger out there. I managed to avoid most of it. Certain holes, certainly. Quite a few flags today. Thought it was tricky that you really couldn't attack in terms of the standard.  
  
  Q. In terms of the standard of golf that you played today, how has it measured up?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's as well as I've done anything so far like Dubai. Very pleased with the way I hit a lot of shots out there. I controlled the flight, which you always have to do when the wind is up like this. If I would have made a few more putts, it would have been nice.  
  
  Q. This time of year to start showing the form you were showing in Dubai the end of last year.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: After the PGA, I couldn't wait for the Masters to come on. My main focus was going to be Augusta, to be playing well at the time when I wanted to. And I said I was going to start playing well again, then that's what you should do.  
  
  Q. In terms of the course, I know you were expecting it to sort of be a real help in terms of preparing for Augusta because you expected it to provide the sort of demands that you would get there. Did it pan out that way?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yes. The greens are very quick out there. They're drying out all the time in the wind, and, you know, I was in a couple of shots today where I needed a lot of imagination with the greens.  
  
  Q. You posted a bogey-free, 3-under, 69.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I think in the afternoons the wind picks up and the greens get harder and dries out. I'm delighted to have gotten around like that.  
  
  Q. You haven't played a lot of golf here in the States this year. You've been playing well on the European Tour. How important is this week to get ready for next week at Augusta?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's very important. This is a big deal. This is a prestigious tournament, rich history, and a lot of great winners. It would be fantastic to have my name associated with it. Twelve years to the week that I've won in the States. It's a bit overdue. It's fantastic preparation for next week. I always like to play the week before a Major.  
  
  Q. You were that close a couple times. Do you feel you're getting to the stage where you are ready to win a Major?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: It feels good. You know, I think playing at Augusta last week is going to be a big advantage. Incidentally, coming to Augusta from here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT