OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 7, 2010
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Give us your assessment?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I started off quick today like I wanted to, and made a poor 6 at 5. I went for a flag that I shouldn't have, and played okay, and just missed the fairway. Made bogey at 9.   
 Didn't really make that much on the greens all day. Thought I hit it good in the playoff. When somebody clubs it on the front bunker their first time in and holds an 18-footer the second time, it's kind of like, the writing is on the wall.   
  
  Q. Heck of a putty you made from 90-odd feet.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, but I hit good shots all the way in and didn't capitalise on it.   
  
  Q. Playing with Alvaro this afternoon, did you feel that your experience was the difference for you?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Some days you don't play great and you just have to hang in there. And what, did he 3-putt three greens in a row? You can't do that coming down the stretch. You have to keep making the 4-, 5-, 6-footers, even shorter than that.  
  
  Q. Very close the first putt on the second playoff hole.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: You know, the writing was on the wall. Miguel plugs it in the front trap, 99 times out of a 100, that goes back in the water, and he's one of best bunker players on Tour. Plays one of his poor bunker shots, but holes from 18 feet to stay in it. That's just one of them things. Playoffs can be like that.   
  
  Q. Overall, hugely disappointing, but really a very good finish to the three weeks.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, like I said at the start of the week, I'm in preseason training. So the results, although I would like to have won this week, they don't really concern me too much.   
 I keep accumulating World Ranking points. I've done a lot of fitness work over the last three weeks. I feel pretty strong. Game still feels a little bit rusty, mentally not quite sharp enough, but hitting a lot of good shots, and hit a good 3-wood into the 18th green under pressure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT