HONDA CLASSIC
March 19, 2021
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Did you run out of gas?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah.  About four days ago.  Yeah, no, I think we both know that this was probably a tournament too far for me, after the run I've had the last two weeks.  But I felt like I should play here this week.  But in an ideal world this would have been a week off after finishing second the last two weeks.  What can you do?  Just felt like one I had to play.  Kind of glazed over out there I was so tired.
 Q. Now you have a quick turnaround and you're playing Wednesday?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   I got a weekend off, so I'll just take it easy over the weekend, do a lot of stretching and mobility work and try and sleep past half past five like it was this morning.
 Q. This is on a day that, not for you, but it seemed like the course is not playing as hard as normal.
 LEE WESTWOOD:   It's not playing as hard as it was yesterday afternoon, for sure.  But it's by no means easy.  I think this is a tough wind to play this golf course in.  Got it off the left on 6 -- yeah, it's not easy.  It's probably, yeah, it's probably a well it was a 61 yesterday wasn't it?
 Q. 63 today.
 LEE WESTWOOD:   Is there?  Yeah, I mean, if you play well there's a score out there for you.  But if you haven't got control of your game, this is a difficult golf course.
 Q. This is a week you easily could have said you need the week off but you played because you feel a connection even though you don't live here any longer, and to Ken.  Does it disappoint you that there are a lot of guys who live in this area who a lot of them don't play here?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   No, it doesn't disappoint me.  We're all, we have all got to do our own thing, whatever suits us.  So, like I said, in an ideal world, after finishing second the last two weeks, this would have been a week, this should have been a week off.  But it's just not right to withdraw at such a late date for like to have to go through that.
 Q. Along those lines, do you think your body was telling you, it's time for a little break is that kind of the silver lining?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   My body was telling me last Sunday.  It was.  I didn't swing it as well Sunday last week.  I was starting to get tired.  Three weeks in a row with not really a day off.  So, yeah.  I am 48 in a month and I can't keep doing it like the 20-year-olds do it.
 Q. In light of that, how good was yesterday's round?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   Yesterday's was really good.  I really ground it out and it took me two birdies to make it a pretty respectable score.  So, yeah, yesterday was good.  I hit some good shots today, but the body was just telling me that there was no fuel left in the tank.
 Q. Despite what happened today, how much confidence do you have, especially rolling into Augusta coming up?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   Yeah, a lot of confidence.  I've had a look at Augusta already, so, yeah, I'm looking forward to all the tournaments coming up, but I'm looking forward to the rest the most this week.
 Q. Playing next week and then after the Masters what?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   Hilton Head and then probably three weeks off.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT