WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 7, 2009
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A blistering start?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it was a good start. I played well all day really. The conditions got a little bit tougher as the round went on. Some difficult flags out there but I got off to a flyer, 5-under through seven. I holed a nice one at the first from about 25 feet; got on to the second in two; pretty much stiffed it on 3. Holed it from 15 feet on 5. Stiffed it again on 7. Hit a great putt on 6, could have made birdie there. Great putt on 8. 
 So I could have been out in 7-under, but five obviously was really good. Made a couple of good saves around the back nine. 
 Bogeyed 15, which was playing tough today. Great bunker shot on 16 from the left-hand trap from about 40 yards to five feet, which is what I've been working on a lot recently. And then good birdie at the last. Hit a great drive and got a little bit lucky with the second shot, like a half-shank with a 6-iron, and just carried on the front there. 
 And then a nice 2-putt, so it was good to finish with two birdies in the last three holes because I wanted to get to double figures for tomorrow.

 Q. Is there a marked improvement on the two previous days? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not really. Just made a couple more putts today. I felt like I was lacking a bit of rhythm in my stroke the first couple of days, and Billy said it looked a bit like putting by numbers. Tried to free it up today and a bit more rhythm and let the putter flow and rolled a few in. Made a few nice 3-, 4-, 5-footers when I needed to to make some momentum going.

 Q. Did you think you still had a chance if you got a low one?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I was 12 behind with ten to go two years ago and got in a playoff. So I figure that seven behind with two rounds to go, I ought to have a bit better chance. 

 Q. Do you tell yourself that going into it? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I know what's capable around this golf course. I know if I play well, it's the type of golf course that I can shoot a low score around it. It suits my eye, suits my game, and I also know that if I start missing fairways and missing greens, you can shoot 73, 74, 75. So you know, this is a golf course that you can make up a lot of shots over a round.

 Q. What is it about the course that suits your eye? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't know what it is really. I like the tee shots. If there's a tee shot I don't like, there's a really simple way of playing the hole. I like the greens. I seem to be able to read the greens pretty well. And I like the speed of the greens that they get them to. This is a nice pace. 

 Q. You said all year about the benefit of having Billy Foster of on your bag, caddie of the year I understand after last night?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, got the Caddie of the Year Award last night, presented by me ironically. With a caddie like him on the bag, you wouldn't expect anything like a 65, would you, and he had a lot to live up to today.

 Q. Tell me what makes him a good caddie. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: We get on really well. He's caddied for a lot of good players, so he's got a lot of experience. He's been in the heat of the battle a lot. And even though he's not caddied for me, before this partnership started, he's watched my game a lot over the years having caddied for Darren, and it was almost like going to a caddie that already knew my game. So that's been an easy transition.

 Q. As Caddie of the Year, he's done some good charity work this year, hasn't he?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I think it's been well-documented the charity work he's done this year, raising 65,000 for his walk between Loch Lomond and Turnberry. It's a difficult walk at the best of the times, but to stick a golf bag on your back doesn't make it any easier, does it. He's a nice guy and that's just the sort of thing he does.

 Q. He's not persuaded you to do the same next year?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I think I do enough walking. I do little bits for charity here and there, the Children's Hospital of Sheffield and various other charities. There's a time when I do that. But I can't see me doing any long walks in the near future. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT