VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 30, 2009
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Lee, a poor day yesterday, round of 76 and well beaten, what was the difference today? You started off like a train. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I got into it a bit more. Ross birdied the first, and I thought I was in for another singing but managed to rattle off four straight birdies after that and get a foot in the door; a bit late back into the match with a couple of poor pitch shots on 8 and 9, and just played solidly on the back nine without really doing too much. So I was quite pleased. 

 Q. How important is experience in these situations? Obviously you don't panic, you have enough experience in match play that you know you've just got to do your job. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's quite important in any form of golf you play, obviously, but we are all a bit new to it this week with the new format. It didn't quite feel right when you've won a match and you have to carry on playing. 
 So we are all a bit sort of new when it comes to trying to finish off the matches. I just let my concentration slip at the end.

 Q. How is the golf course working out as a venue for this sort of format?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Very well. It's a good risk/reward golf course. The par 5s are reachable. There's a couple of par 4s that you can get near. There are a few demanding par 4s out there. The par 3s are great. They have some good length and you have to play proper shots on those. I think you are seeing pars win a lot of holes out there as well as birdies.

 Q. It looks like your whole group now is going to have a 1-1 match and got two points, it could come to holes up and down, how do you approach this afternoon's match when you're trying to make up a deficit?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, well, I put myself down the 8-ball really yesterday with a heavy loss to Jeev. No excuses. Just played poorly, and general generally when you play poorly, nothing goes your way and the other guy gets a few breaks, or so it seems to be in your own mind. I was the cause of that really. 
 I can't remember the last time I went around a golf course and didn't make a birdie and that happened yesterday and that's pathetic really when there's five par 5s that you can reach and three par 4s that you can get nearly on the green in one. 
 So yesterday wasn't good enough but I redeemed myself today and gave myself a little bit of a chance this afternoon. Match play, who knows, especially with this format, I may beat Camilo this afternoon and the other two halve and I go through. So you've just got to keep grinding away out there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT