PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 17, 2009
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 66 today, how good of a round was that?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I played well again. Got it around the front nine which was probably the harder nine in 4-under par which is a good score and just came a little bit -- well, I don't want to say stuck, but didn't continue making birdies around the stretch around the back nine. Missed a good chance at 11 and hit it in the water at 12 and made par. Got fooled by the green, thought it was a bit quicker on 13, 3-putted that, missed a great chance at 14 and missed a 3-footer on 15 for birdie.   
 66, to birdie the last two holes and be a 66; 68 would have felt a poor score but 66 feels pretty good.  
  
  Q. They put a trap flag at the last; death if you miss it, and you went straight for the hole.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I had a good yardage. Well, I thought I had a good yardage. Really thought it was a little 9-iron and I had confidence with a hard wedge from 140. The wind wasn't up that much and felt I could lean on it and carry it across the flag. That it is the only way to get it close to that flag; it's a sucker flag and I went for it.   
  
  Q. Did you have an idea as you were going around what sort of might be the lead, because others were playing well, as well?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really. I do watch the leaderboards but wanted to try to get to 20-under par, and 17 should be there or thereabouts and should have a chance to attack tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Game plan?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Go and watch the second half of Nottingham Forest and Newcastle now.   
  
  Q. You want to be top of the Order of Merit, but with Rory not in contention or anywhere close, a chance to make a big move?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, but not even thinking about that really. I'm just here trying to win the Portuguese Masters, and that's hard enough with things as they are, everybody making birdies.   
  
  Q. So long without a win even when playing really well.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, but I keep giving myself chances and I'm in contention all the time. It's not like I'm not used to being in the cut and thrust of it all. I've just got to get a few breaks and shoot a good round at the right time.   
 If I had not birdied the last two holes, you know, people behind have obviously got holes in hand. 18 is no pushover, you can drop shots easily there. But already a lot of birdie chances and when people are playing well they do just keep tending to making birdies.   
 To finish 4, 3, was the least required really.   
  
  Q. Second tomorrow and go top of the Order of Merit, no cause for celebration; win tomorrow, big celebration.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, second, no good. That's what Seve used to say, too. "Second is no good." So now Billy is saying that to me.   
  
  Q. Did you see Seve might be at the Match Play?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, hopefully it would be nice to see him. He had interview he did the other day taped and looking forward to seeing that, but even better to see the great man himself.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT