PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2009
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Was it a grind 66 or a strong 66?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was a strong 66 really. Didn't make any putts at all. Unless you're counting 7-footers. So it could have been a lot better but I've been starting very slowly just recently so to start from 6-under is a positive and only been improving as the last few weeks so that's good.   
  
  Q. How high is your expectation level?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: My expectation level is very high. Turning up to these tournaments trying to come here and win and so it can't get much higher than that.  
  
  Q. Your form going into tomorrow, an important day, you must be looking forward to it.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Form has been good. I've been playing very good recently and not turning it into results and that's what I need to do. It's been a consistent this year, but if I don't win this year, it will be disappointing, and if I don't win the Order of Merit, too. It's about time to start winning.  
  
  Q. Nice cherry this week to get in front of Rory, perhaps?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not really too worried about getting in front. It's just playing well on the individual weeks. It's all about wins. Second, no good.   
  
  Q. Very determined.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: That's the way you've got to be.   
  
  Q. What hole were you on when it got you?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: 17th.   
  
  Q. Didn't call a referee because of that, though.  
 LEE WESTWOOD: No. Finishing some stuff that ought to have been called ground under repair, and I got a drop and it got marked ground under repair. I was right, I knew I was.   
  
  Q. Pain's gone?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I'm lucky I'm not allergic to them or anything like that. I'm a big, strong lad, so I can brush it away quite easily.   
  
  Q. Was it on it when you looked?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Quite clinging on by the sting which was nice. I didn't even have the satisfaction of standing on it after I got the sting out of my leg.  
  
  Q. Good start, 32 out, could have been better; did you think about it?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it can always be better can't it. I didn't make any putts really over -- what's the longest putt I holed? Seven feet on 6.  
 I'd like there to be a bit more wind, put a premium on tee-to-green and controlling your ball flight and striking the ball, because this course can get chopped up a bit when the wind is not blowing, and you know, there's a lot of birdie chances out there when it's pretty calm. Obviously you know, the harder it gets tee-to-green, the more chance it has of less becoming a putting tournament. So you know, the more focus on that. I would like to see more wind like there was yesterday maybe.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT