PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2009
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. As the leaders made the turn, you birdied 14 to get within three shots. What were you thinking and feeling at that stage?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Thought I needed to make a couple of birdies to get to 5. I think 5 might have a real chance. It's playing pretty tough coming in, 16, 17, 18 and no easy feat. I think they probably have 12 and 13 to play, as well. It's not easy out there.   
  
  Q. 3-under is leading the total in the clubhouse; you don't fancy your chances?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I think 95 percent of me says no, but there's that five percent that stranger things have happened in the closing holes of majors and there's a lot of water on 16.   
  
  Q. How difficult is it to par those last three holes then if the two leaders are still going at it?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, very difficult. It's difficult to par any hole out there. Once you start missing fairways, 15 is no cinch today; if you miss the fairway, you could be going in with 5-iron, 4-iron for your third shot.   
 There's birdie chances out there if you play well, but there's stumbling blocks if you don't in the last few holes of a major championship.   
  
  Q. You've obviously come close three times; positive going forward?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Oh, I'm delighted. I've come back from what could have been a slight disappointment at the Open, not winning there, and here looks like I'm finishing Top-5 at least. It's just forward progress all the time and can't wait for next April.   
  
  Q. I don't know if it's enough, but you're the clubhouse leader.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yes, well, I can claim that honor for a while. I played very well today, very solidly as I have done all week. Made a few too many mistakes on the greens, but I'm sure everybody can say that. It was a good bounce-back after a bit of a disappointment at the Open, not winning there.   
  
  Q. Were you leaderboard-watching at all? Did you see what was going on on the other side of the golf course?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I watched the leaderboard from the first thing Thursday morning. I've never had a problem with that. I like to know what I have to do. I like to know what everybody else is doing.  
  
  Q. Do you think there is a chance they could come back even further?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: 95 percent of me says no but there's always that five percent. There's a lot of water on that 16th hole.   
  
  Q. You came so close in a major and you almost broke through at the Open a year ago and here is another opportunity to break through. It seems to be knocking on the door for you?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's all positives and I've been playing well for some time now. Obviously if I can keep giving myself chances in majors, it shows my game is improving to a high enough standard.  
  
  Q. I saw a smile on your face walking off the 18th green?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, that 5-, 6-footer was a nice one to hole.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT