SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2009
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 3-under par, 69 today first round, tell me about it.
 LEE WESTWOOD: You know, I didn't really come out where I left off yesterday. You know, no good for me to stop, really, to tell you the truth yesterday. The course is playing tough and I was hitting it well when I came out this morning; a bit cold and felt a bit out of sync in my swing but it got it back over the last few holes, got it back. 
 Over the last few holes, hit good shots. I played the par-5s better. 69 is going to be an average score. Some guys -- it's one of those times we've got to do well. 69 is probably going to be just an average score.

 Q. Talk about the conditions, especially the green speed.
 LEE WESTWOOD: The greens are quick, very true. You can't complain. The wind gets to 45 miles an hour. They're in immaculate condition. I was out at 7:50 in the morning. It's not the ideal to warm up with. Getting up at 5:00 everyday, just don't get over jet lag. Three-hour time change. One of those things. You try to prepare properly, and you get shafted sometimes.

 Q. How did you handle the wind yesterday? Everybody else had all kind of problems. You seemed to be the one that fought through it successfully.
 LEE WESTWOOD: I hit a lot of good shots. Didn't miss a green. I had some nice putts.

 Q. How about finishing on time? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: As long as we finish Sunday night. 

 Q. (Inaudible).
 LEE WESTWOOD: I hit an okay drive and a 5-wood in the hazard and had an iffy lie, bit firm underneath it. It went in the trap. Hit a nice trap shot, about 5 feet and missed it. Just one of those things.

 Q. That pitch on 16, how about that?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I've got to work on that. That's from being rusty and not playing hardly -- I hardly feel like I've played this year. Lot of traveling but no playing.

 Q. Don't stop very often for wind. Were you worried they were going to stop yesterday, or were you surprised?
 LEE WESTWOOD: They had to stop. The ball was oscillating as we were playing. It wasn't going down and only going to get stronger. I figured the greens will be quicker and hit shots in there.

 Q. How frustrating is that when you get it going well?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Very frustrating because my group were finding it playable. It's just the odd one, two, you get on a slope, one of the more exposed greens it moves it. Nothing wrong with playing in strong wind, but when the ball starts to move, it's hard.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT