SOUTH AFRICAN OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
December 17, 2008
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thought on the week to start us off and how is your form coming in.
 LEE WESTWOOD: Form is good, four weeks out after having the tonsils out, but yeah, I'm looking forward to this week. Very prestigious tournament to win, and with The Race to Dubai, quite a lot of money on The European Tour, I think this is probably the best field they have ever had here.

 Q. Inaudible?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, tee-to-green, after that, carry on and start making a few more putts and not made too much the last couple of weeks and that's really I didn't haven't got close. My preparation has been good, and play well this week and finish the rest of the year strong. Played well all year but not managed to win and this would be a good time to start winning. 

 Q. Inaudible?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Taking the right shot at the wrong time -- time for a good performance, you just have to keep plugging away, and keep trying to improve. Hopefully all of the improvements come together as one and start winning. 

 Q. You have great record here?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I've always enjoyed coming down here. I played in '95, and I've always got on great with the people down here and love the golf courses and the wine, unfortunately. And the food. Every time I have called home in the last three weeks it's been raining and cold so it's been great to come down here in this weather and play these great courses. 

 Q. Ernie was saying that the South Africans don't like foreigners coming down and winning here......
 LEE WESTWOOD: Oh did he.....he's not having the best week is he - he didn't even offer to pick up the tab last night when I went to his restaurant and now he is saying that!. He did say there might have been a bottle of wine but there was nothing now he's talking about us winning the tournament -- that's not very good public relations for him or his restaurant is it! 
 I would love to win the tournament this week so that I can take the trophy to his charity event next week! 


 Q. (How challenging will it be to play in the wind this week)?
 LEE WESTWOOD: The great thing about that is it generally sets the men out from the boys. I like it when the wind blows. It's quite a difficult golf course. There's not a huge amount of wind out there today but it can definitely get up around here. The fairways are quite tight and you need to be a good driver of the golf ball to do well here. 

 Q. Inaudible?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, we are going through it. The calendar year -- I had a break just before and four or five weeks after this, back doing gym work and I'm going to Dubai and practice, Qatar, and then just week-to-week then. 

 Q. So you're playing Qatar and Dubai?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Qatar and Dubai. 

 Q. You're playing Abu Dhabi? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: No. Then play a bit in Asia and then get back to the Masters, and a couple World Golf Championships. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT