VOLVO MASTERS
October 29, 2008
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Lee, thanks, as always, for joining us. Maybe just thought us off with your thoughts on the week ahead. Big week ahead with Order of Merit and up for grabs. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it's pretty simple really. Need to win the tournament, basically, first and foremost, and then hopefully sit down on Sunday night with the Volvo Masters trophy and think about what everybody else has done. If Robert finishes in the top three or Padraig finishes -- I'm not sure if I win whether Padraig had have an effect, but I know if Robert finishes top three then it he wins the Order of Merit. But I think there's still all of that to play for. 
 Then, you know, Valderrama on a windy, wet week can be unpredictable and anything can happen. 

 Q. How big a thing is it, the Order of Merit now? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Why do you look at him when you ask me that? 

 Q. That's the only question I had. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, it's obviously a very big thing. It shows consistency over the year. It's nice to be able to sit down at the end of the year and say, you know, you're the Order of Merit winner and get the trophy. It's great obviously. And I've given myself a chance going into the last event, which I suppose at the start of the year I would take. 

 Q. Does it matter that it's the last one; does that make any difference? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Last Volvo Masters? 

 Q. Last Order of Merit. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Not really, no. Even though it's going to be The Race to Dubai next year, it's going to be over the whole season, so similar sort of format but with a big finale. But the Volvo Masters, you could argue, is a big finale, as well. 

 Q. In 2000 when you won the Order of Merit, towards the end of that time, you were not playing at your best, were you, and then you went into a bit of a slump. What would you do to prevent that this time and to hang onto your good form?
 LEE WESTWOOD: That's an interesting question, Lewine. 

 Q. Thank you. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: I would like to think -- well I know I'm a little bit older but I'm a little bit wiser, as well. There would not be quite as much panic on my part, but I don't think I would fall into that situation because I have more knowledge about my golf swing, and things that make me play well and how to correct these things. 

 Q. Is it a bit daft that Padraig can win two majors and not have the Order of Merit wrapped up by the season finale?
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, because the Order of Merit is not about majors. Padraig has had a fantastic year, and any time you win two majors is obviously a great year. Over the whole year, if he had been consistently more up there, I don't know how many Top-10s he's had, he would have won the Order of Merit already without playing this week. 
 But, you know, there are a lot of big tournaments on The European Tour now, and Robert happens to have won one of those recently, the Dunhill, which was obviously a lot of money, nearly as much money as the major championships. The majors have the ultimate prestige, but not a dramatic difference in money to the other events. 
 So, no, if you asked me if he was the Player of the Year, then I would have to say, yeah. Any player that wins two majors in a year has to be classed as the best of the years.

 Q. Can you say something about Robert Karlsson and how his game has developed this year?
 LEE WESTWOOD: His whole game and stature in the game has changed in the last 18 months to two years I think. I think he is more widely regarded as a contender in the major championships and when he turns up at events now, we all knew that Robert was a good player before, and one, maybe two weeks a year he was going to have his week, and win or have a chance at winning, but now he's one of those people that you look at and you figure at the end of the week he's going to be there or thereabouts.

 Q. What's the difference, have you seen any?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Technically I think it's been good and he's had a fantastic putting year and there don't look to be any flaws in his game or recognisable weaknesses. His short game looks very solid, and one of the greatest pitchers of the ball in the world at the moment. That's what impresses me most, from 100 yards and in. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Lee, thanks for coming in and good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT