COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
January 24, 2009
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Your thoughts on the day?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was quite good. I hit a lot of good shots. Wasn't playing particularly easy out there. There were a few tricky holes. I felt like I could have shot a lot better. Could have shot 64; that would probably have felt about right.   
  
  Q. An improvement on day two when there are few trials and tribulations in the early stages.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I was a bit out of sort yesterday on the front nine and didn't play very well and hot 4-over, which is easy to do around here.   
  
  Q. First tournament of the year to be up there in this kind of position and chance on the final day, has to be good?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I've been playing very solidly lately and giving myself a chance nearly every week. Sooner or later, I'm hoping to take one of these chances.  
  
  Q. How was the Christmas period for you? I know you had the tonsillitis operation and all?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, that was after the Volvo Masters and was quite a while ago now and I've almost forgot about it. Christmas was very relaxed and had a lot of family around and then concentrate on my gym work between just after Christmas and the start of this week.   
 So it's been good. I haven't played a lot of golf but don't feel too rusty.  
  
  Q. Any changes or resolutions?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, this week, a new driver, a new 5-wood, a new set of irons and new wedges and new putter.   
  
  Q. And they are working well?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I'm gradually getting used to them and I like them.  
  
  Q. What's your verdict on Forest 1-1 against Derby?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I only watched the first half and Derby had a lot of chances.   
But apparently we came strong in the second half, and it will be a different story back at the City ground hopefully.  
  
  Q. Will you be around for that replay?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I think so. I think it's the week after Dubai, which I have off, so should be down there.   
  
  Q. Just your thoughts on tomorrow, as well, not going to be too far off are you?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Hopefully not but you don't know what people are going to do around the back nine. You know, it can be tricky out there when the wind blows. I was just thankful I had a tuna sandwich to keep me going around the back nine today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT