SOUTH AFRICAN OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
December 18, 2008
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Lee, maybe if you could start us off with an assessment of your round today, and we'll take some questions.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, played really solidly. All good pretty much. Drove the ball lovely. Missed one fairway, the second, by about four feet but wasn't far and it was a good line into the flag. It was down the side and hanging up.   
 Was aggressive with the golf course, hit a lot of drivers and irons and rescues. I like the golf course. I've always liked playing Jack's golf courses. You can play them conservatively but you are obviously going to have the opportunities to attack the flag. So if you have a good, straight yard, then you can hit driver and get an advantage. I did that today, putted quite nicely, got it on-line well and made the ones that mattered.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yes, we are. Thank you. That's the way golf is nowadays. It's very hard -- especially myself.   
  
  Q. How are you doing in the heat?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: It's all right. I've been here the last two weeks, I'm used to it. Seems cooler down here than Sun City and Leopard Creek. So don't get too frustrated out there and make it worse. It's manageable. I'd rather play in this than freezing at home.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, in a different direction. Yesterday I hit 8-iron and today I hit driver, 4-iron and a full wedge. So, yeah, it's a little bit like playing in Scotland I suppose with the wind of varying strength.   
 Over the first couple of days, you can see that it's a good test no matter what. Obviously it plays easier, as the scores would suggest today, and if the wind blows, you'll all get your scores straight out a little bit more I think.   
 The course will play hard and firm, and whoever hits it best and has the best overall game has the best chance.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Thank you for joining us.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT