QUINN INSURANCE BRITISH MASTERS
September 25, 2008
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LEE WESTWOOD: I started to feel a bit of jet-lag out there with about four holes to go but that's something I expected. Still played them in 1-under. I got a bit raggedy, I suppose.   
 I didn't hit the drive on 15 very well and I didn't hit the drive on 16 in the fairway and 17 wasn't much good. 18 I got a bit lucky. All day I've hit a lot of good shots, putted nicely again. Tried to really keep the mentality from last week and take the positives out of last week, how positive and aggressive on the greens I was, looking at 30-footers and thinking about holing them rather than thinking about getting them dead. I ran a lot of putts up to the hole today. Some went in. Some shaved the hole. That was obviously a big thing from last week, the way I putted; it was good. So I just tried to carry that on to the greens today.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Today? No, I didn't. Well, unfortunately, but there was about a 20-footer on 4. But you know, I made nice putts on 1. A nice 8-footer on 1 just to get me going. Grazed the hole on 3 for eagle. Grazed the hole on 5 for birdie. Just hit a lot of good putts.   
 10, hit a great 3-wood in there to about 20 feet.   
  
  Q. How far?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: 266 to the front.   
 I thought did I play well. I was pleased with my game. Hit a lot of good shots. I was 4-under when I lost on Sunday. You know, that's obviously pretty good in Ryder Cup because there's a lot of pressure on. Sometimes you can't do anything if the other guy plays better. He played really well, as did the whole team. I didn't think the Europeans played particularly poorly. It was just that we got out-played.   
  
  Q. How do you deal with that side, knowing you played well, and the team has lost --  
 LEE WESTWOOD: You just put last week in the box and file it away. Last week is last week. This is a new week. You can't carry mental scars or emotional baggage into this week, because last week was match play and team golf this week and stroke play and individual again.   
 You focus on the positive things last week and then try and carry them through into this week.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I think so. That's why I've won back-to-back tournaments in the past. Always been able to get back to my nice playing level or get a sense of reality again for the following week and perspective.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it is, it's very different. The crowds are obviously a lot louder and there are a lot more of them. You know, on one side or the other. You come out here, less crowds obviously and they are quieter and they have got all their own little favourites, but clapping at all the great shots in general.   
 Both weeks are completely different and you have to get back to the -- well, this week, today, get back to the day job, really.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I think that has a lot to do with it. Even though my legs went a bit over the last 12 hours of jet-lag, if I'm not as fit and as strong as this in the past, I might have gone with eight holes to go and that might have had an effect.   
 So, yeah, I put -- certainly no negatives to being fitter and stronger. It's difficult to quantify it.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, at one stage out there -- the course is very demanding, and the rough is thick. Once you start missing a few fairways, it can just get away from you. It's very difficult to see your way around then.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: The shoulder. I didn't realize he had a bad shoulder -- well, when you have an injury, it's always in the back of your mind.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, Michael Campbell -- I played mine and it rolled up to Michael's ball. We determined that his ball had not moved but my ball was touching his ball. So I wondered whether when I marked mine, it might cause Michael's to roll or whether we should mark them together and pick them up simultaneously and I didn't know whether his ball was officially at rest and what was the process, if we should just go for it.   
 So it's best to call a rules official if you're in any doubt. Never happened to me on the golf course before.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't know, I never got around to that because the rules official said that I just had to Mark mine and we get on with it, and he marked his at the same time. Could have gone closer.   
  
  Q. Inaudible?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Could I or did I? They are slightly different. It's a bit quieter.   
 I don't know, the crowds are bigger today and obviously I think we carried the biggest gallery around there. I don't know.  
  
  Q. Any chants today?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, no chants, no songs today.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Lee, thank you, well done. Thank you for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT