BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 10, 2008
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tidy round of golf today, how do you rate it out of ten? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Out of ten? I don't know. I haven't really thought about it. But I played all right, pretty solidly. Hit some good shots. Could have had two more birdies out of the last three holes but all in all I was pretty pleased. I thought the course held up fairly well. The fairways were a bit wet, so controlling all of the spin on the wedges, spinning 8-irons out there, so that was the trickiest part of the day. 

 Q. It's a really intense period coming up now over the next sort of five weeks and there's a major tournament happening next week at Birkdale but you've won here; are you happy with your firm form this season and in particular at the moment?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, very pleased. My form over the course of the year has been very consistent and pretty good. A bit disappointed I haven't won yet but obviously I've had lots of chances, most notably at the U.S. Open I finished third. 
 But I'm playing well at a time of year where it's very good to play well. There are some big events to play. Obviously next week is the Open Championship, and two and three weeks after that is a World Golf Championships and the PGA. 
 But this week is a very big tournament in its own right, so I'm trying to concentrate on this and put in a good performance to build up some confidence for next week. 

 Q. You mentioned great form this year, hardly outside of the Top-10, just haven't quite got over the line yet?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I've been playing well, hitting the ball well. Played all right today, felt a little under the well so didn't feel myself. My legs didn't feel very strong which is what I've been working on, so hopefully get a good night's sleep tonight and feel a bit better tomorrow and come out and shoot well. 

 Q. When is the last time you remember you played so well so consistently? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, when I won the Order of Merit in 2000, that was the sort of consistency I showed, but I won seven events that year, six on the tour. But I'm not far, I haven't been far off winning four or five events this year. It's a fine line between finishing third like I've done and winning in 2000 like I did. 
 But the most pleasing thing is I've played well in the majors,11th at the Masters and could not really have putted worse over four days and really should have won the U.S. Open but for a couple of shots here and there. 

 Q. Going into next week, when is the last time you went into an Open with so much confidence? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I had a lot of confidence in 2004 when I played well at Troon. But you know, nothing breeds confidence like good results, and obviously the shots are going in as I pictured them, and if I miss the green, I'm getting up-and-down quite -- I wouldn't say easily, but comfortably. I'm not leaving myself too much work to do. I'm starting to feel good on the greens.

 Q. Have you ever looked forward to an Open more than this one, given what happened at the U.S. Open, that being the last major?
 LEE WESTWOOD: No, I don't think so. I've never been, as confident going into an Open as I am at the moment as far as majors going. Obviously I've been confident going into some because I've won the event the week before. But I feel like I've got enough game and no weaknesses in my game where I should be contending.

 Q. It's almost as though you're at another level now. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: There is no other level. I made that mistake back in 2000 where I looked for another level and it cost me three years of a career really. 
 So, you know, the another level is a fallacy. 

 Q. The golf course was obviously quite soft; that presumably meant it was easier to pick spots where you wanted to hit it or was it much longer or what was the downside?
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, it wasn't really raining yesterday. It was playing about a couple of feet longer because it was bouncing, but the hardest part about it was the softness of the fairways. The greens held up pretty well but the fairways were pretty soggy. You were bringing up water when you were standing over it and you would be dropping all day if you took casual. I just found control of a lot of my irons, I was spinning back 8-irons and that was the hardest part about the day.

 Q. So the score you shot you would have settled for when you started this morning?
 LEE WESTWOOD: I would have settled for getting around without getting wet, which I think has been a miracle. I think it says a lot for the course actually to be able to get a round of golf in with only an hour and a half delay, having seen the rain that's fallen. I know you don't get out of bed early in the morning, but I can tell you it was lashing down at 6 o'clock this morning.

 Q. What time did you actually get up? 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Half past five. That's a lot of lie-in. 

 Q. You seem relaxed, not putting much pressure on yourself. 
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, that's the secret I think, to go out with no expectations.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT