JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 30, 2008
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. The eagle at 14, tell us about that one.   
 LEE WESTWOOD: It was playing a little bit downwind today and 298 yards to carry the trap on the front edge, and I cleared it, just about all I got, felt a bit tired after that, went to four feet and casually rolled it in from four feet for eagle. That was great. There was a few people there and they seemed fairly impressed.  
  
  Q. All of that working out is paying off. 298 over the trap?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I'm carrying it quite a long way now. I think it's partly to do with the working out, a good part, and I think the working out helps me to swing technically better and get in more powerful positions.  
  
  Q. Five behind at the start, what was your mind-set going out?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: To hit it closer than I had the first two days. The greens are not great. A lot of people have said that, including myself. I tried to turn that around by saying to myself that I wasn't hitting it close enough, so I tried to hit closer.  
  
  Q. Is it nice to be in an event where you are not the centre of media attention?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, The Ryder Cup dominates this week with it being the last qualifying event, and I've had a fairly laid back week. But I wish I had a pound for every time I was asked who do you think Nick Faldo will pick.  
  
  Q. What about your spell yesterday in the commentary box, fairly laid back?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, those guys have got it easy, just say it as it is, might be a future career, don't know.   
  
  Q. Who do you think Nick will pick?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: That's another ten quid.   
  
  Q. Are you enjoying your working out?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: I'm enjoying it now. I'm not a big fan of sitting on a bike or cross-trainer or treadmill, but I do like doing the weights. I did the weights Thursday afternoon this week and I had a big session on Monday. I don't mind that. I don't mind doing the lifting. But the sitting around is boring.   
  
  Q. Is your capacity for what you're lifting, is it pretty impressive now?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: Well, it's going up all the time. I am improving in that, which is good. That is one thing that you can actually monitor. You've got the numbers on the weights to tell you how you're doing.   
 So I'm going to continue doing that and hopefully, you know, keep improving and hitting it further.   
  
  Q. How much do you think you've added?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: I don't know. I know a year I wouldn't have dreamed of carrying it -- I think it was 303 yards to carry it over the traps on 8; I did that, and 300 yards to the front edge, basically, on 14. And it helps on the par 5s, as well. I'm hitting more of the par 5s in two. Went in with 5-iron on 9 today which is quite a good drive down.   
  
  Q. What's your philosophy on the greens the last two days after Thursday?   
 LEE WESTWOOD: Hit it closer.   
 You know, some people misinterpret; when I get asked a question, I give my honest opinion, and some people misinterpret that and think I'm whinging about the greens when I wasn't whinging about the greens. It was light-hearted and I was trying to be positive and so they can move on.  
 But I understand that I'm the highest world-ranked golfer and everything I say is going to be blown up a little bit and the headline writers are going to have a field day with it.   
 The only thing I regret is that the press release that was put out by the Tour and Gleneagles after I said it sort of insinuated that I had a go at the greens staff, which in no way I had. They have done a fantastic job with the golf course this week. There's been nothing but praise from all the players. If the greens are, you know, constructed like this, in a wet place, that's all they have got to deal with, and they have got them as good as they can get them. So that's the only thing I regret about commenting on the greens.  
  
  Q. Are the two they have redone okay?  
 LEE WESTWOOD: They are a lot drier, and the surface is still not good, but they are the two driest on the golf course so there's no reason why they can't do it.  
 You know, you have a lot of wedges in and stuff like that if you drive the ball well around here and I've just tried to hit them as close as I can really. I've hit a couple sort of stiff today and another couple inside four feet and I've done well on the par 5s apart from the last.   
 So, you know, that's really where I've got to make my score around here, because there are going to be a few people rolling the odd one in, but you can't really rely on that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT