ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 13, 2008
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Good start? 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  It was good, I played solidly, got off to a nice start.  I've always felt comfortable coming here and playing this course.  It feels like it suits my game.  It's a good driver's course.  If you drive the ball well, you can score.  Keep it in the fairway, and obviously long, big advantage. 
 I hit a bad drive off the fourth, made a good five in the end and a good 3-putt the next.  The green just kidded me a bit.  They are not best this week and I thought it was going to be really quick downgrain and it just didn't go.  As the grass grew during the day, it made putting quite tricky. 

 Q.  We've heard a lot about the greens this week.  Tiger is saying he thinks they are terrible, but you still managed to shoot a pretty good score.  What do you think about the greens? 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Like I said, they are not best I've ever seen.  They are not the best they have ever been.  But I rolled a few in, so it is possible to make putts.  It will benefit anyone who plays well tee-to-green hits and it closer.  So same as every week, really. 

 Q.  You said about three weeks ago that you felt like you were going to win again in this stretch; do you feel still that? 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I feel close.  My game feels a bit under cut coming in here.  I've really only played two competitive rounds since Dubai.  I missed the cut in L.A., wrong side of the draw there, and then left second round in Tucson.  I've not played a lot of golf recently and feeling a bit sort of rusty coming into it. 
 I think my preparation going up to the Masters is nearly perfect.  I do feel rust when I come back from two weeks off, but it is nice having a break going into the Masters and freshen up for that week and being completely focused on that and focusing on the week going into it, or the week before. 
 So I'll get to the Masters Sunday early and just get ready. 

 Q.  Good chance at Masters? 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  It's the best I've played the first part of the year for sure for the last few years.  I'm certainly stronger in it, and bodes well for the Masters. 

 Q.  Do you feel like where you've improved your game suits you more for that tournament? 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, you need a good short game at Augusta.  You need to be able to control your spin well, and you need a greater variety of chip shots.  It's pretty good at the moment. 

 Q.  There were times in the past when you didn't seem as excited getting ready for Augusta. 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  No, I've never played that well early on in the year.  I felt like May onwards, I normally pick it up, but this year I've started playing well early on, so put that down to fitness and working out in the gym in the winter I think.  Coming out stronger, less lethargic. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT