DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 30, 2008
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Lee, welcome.  To start us off, maybe your thoughts on the week ahead, good form coming into, you must be looking forward to it. 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, obviously I've been playing pretty well, and Dubai is a place I like to play in.  I've always felt like the course suits me, and looking forward to playing this week.  A great field, should be a great tournament. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS:  It always adds something when Tiger is here, doesn't it. 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, Tiger is in; Ernie is playing and many others, so looking forward to it. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Perfect.  Questions? 

 Q.  Do I detect a bit of a throat in your voice? 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  No, I think it's the air. 

 Q.  One thing that intrigues us is how you and your fellow pros will feel about the so-called comments about Ian Poulter being the only other person who can compete with Tiger this week. 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah. 

 Q.  What do you think of that? 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  I haven't read the whole article, so it would be wrong for me to judge it just yet.  (Laughter). 

 Q.  Just wanted to know, you've been having a great start to the season, I'm sure you talked about it in the other press conferences, but we'd like to know what has really changed in these last six months for you? 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  I think it's a combination of a lot of things with the work I've done on my fitness, obviously the short game work I've done with Mark Roe has had big benefits and I can be a lot more aggressive on the golf course with flags.  It's easy for me to get up-and-down. 
 Putting with Paul Hurrion, you know, start to roll a few more in, your confidence increases. 
 And just the work I've done with my dad at home on the range.  I'm a lot more confident with my technique.  I've taken it more on my shoulders what I want to do with my golf swing, and I understand my golf swing a lot better now, what works for me. 

 Q.  Is it frustrating that you have three straight second-place finishes and not have a win in these three tournaments? 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  No, not really.  You know, I've shown good consistency.  Just haven't putted well enough over four rounds.  I haven't had more than one bad round each week, 73 in the second round in Abu Dhabi, and 73 last week in the third round. 
 Other than that, played well.  Started slowly in Shanghai, but no, I'm pleased with the way things are going.  You show that kind of consistency, it's very difficult to be critical of 11 Top-10s in 12 events. 

 Q.  You're one of the ones in favour of jazzing golf up and bringing in celebrities -- 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Not too many naked pictures. 

 Q.  Now why do you think that golf, your lot, need this kind of crutch? 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  I don't think we need it, but I think it adds to the tournament.  You know, you can see that this week has got a great atmosphere.  Everybody is really relaxed on the putting green over there and that maybe a lot to do with the guy up there singing.  It's an entertainment business at the end of the day.  People want to be entertained and that adds to the entertainment. 

 Q.  How far do you want it to go, do you want trumpets playing -- 
 LEE WESTWOOD:  I haven't really thought about it.  It's not something that is at the forefront of my mind.  I have enough to think about with all of the things that go on around golf.  I leave that up to the people organise other entertainment and see fit what should be going on at the golf tournament. 
 MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Lee, thanks very much for joining us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT