U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2008
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Full Audio Interview 
   
Q. I imagine you've heard already that Tiger birdied 17 and it's  
quite likely that the two of you will be out tomorrow. Can you  
talk about your thoughts on that round? 
   
LEE WESTWOOD: My round?  
   
   
Q. Just the fact that you're in the lead and you're going to be  
in a final pairing with Tiger.  
  LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I mean I hadn't really thought about it. I'll wait until he finishes. It's not any concern who I'm playing with in the last round, shooting 70 and being under par and sticking to my game plan all day. 17 has given me the most satisfaction I've had all day. 
   
   
Q. You said earlier in the week you enjoyed that other grouping  
because it was like being out on a Sunday. How was this Saturday  
compared to the first couple of rounds? 
  LEE WESTWOOD: It was good. The crowds are great. I obviously enjoy playing with Miguel, as well. We had a good time, it was very relaxed. 
   
Like I say, I played very solidly, hit the ball more or less well all  
day. It wasn't close all the time, but I was picking spots to  
play to as you've got to do at the U.S. Open. And I putted  
pretty well as well. 
   
   
Q. Scores have gravitated toward par, what have you done  
particularly well, including ball-striking? 
  LEE WESTWOOD: I've driven the ball pretty well. My distance control on irons has been pretty good. I've played away from the flags when I needed to. I'm thinking my way around the golf course. That's the best part of my game. 
   
   
Q. You've excel on big stages. What prepares you for  
tomorrow in your mind? 
  LEE WESTWOOD: Being in those positions before, I think. Five Ryder Cups and I've been in contention in Majors before, so if you let it get to you, then you have problems. 
   
But I'm a fairly calm person and fairly level headed, so I'll just  
stick to my own game plan and try to keep doing the things I'm doing. 
   
   
Q. To go out and play a remarkable round today, just how good do  
you feel about the way you're playing? 
  LEE WESTWOOD: I'm playing very well. I'm seeing the right shots at the right times and I feel in control of my golf swing and my putting is pleasing me. 
   
But my short game is making up for a lot. I've missed greens,  
I've got it up-and-down, which is just what you need to do at U.S.  
Opens. I'm pretty pleased where how everything is. 
   
   
Q. You were sick, how did that affect your preparation? 
  LEE WESTWOOD: I didn't hit too many balls coming into this week. I had a couple of weeks off, which I don't usually do in a Major championship, one week off, but not two. 
  I  
kept my expectations low, and it's sometimes easy to go out when you  
don't have any expectations, you just free wheel and play how you  
should play, one shot at a time. 
   
   
Q. You keep saying you were thinking your way around, a lot of  
guys come into an Open and over think and it's such a grind and do  
this and that, it sounds like, although you have a game plan, you  
didn't necessarily come in with one. Is that the case? 
  LEE WESTWOOD: I built the game plan up as I did play my practice rounds, obviously. And I tried to figure out a way of playing the golf course. I've done that pretty well. Imagined where the flags would be and then went to fire away. 
   
   
Q. You referenced Ryder Cups, you've obviously been in  
several. How does that experience help you tomorrow  
specifically, in your mind? 
  LEE WESTWOOD: Just the fact that you're under a lot of pressure. Obviously when we play across here in the States the crowds are mainly on the American side, which if I play with Tiger in the last group I would imagine they're on his side and not mine. 
   
But those sort of things have not bothered me too much. I'll go  
out in a good frame of mind and with what I want to achieve in my  
mind. 
   
   
Q. Why don't you care about that, about the pairing, about who  
you're playing with? 
  LEE WESTWOOD: Because you've got to play with somebody. (Laughter.) 
 Although I think I'd have a fairly good chance to  
win it if I had my own card. But you pretty much accept when you  
come to a Major championship and you're in the last group on the last  
day, nowadays you're probably going to be playing with Tiger  
Woods. If you're playing with Tiger Woods on Sunday in a Major,  
you've got to be pleased with what you're doing and where you were.  
  
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT