DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 2, 2008
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Your back nine of 33 has brought you right back into the event, how does that feel?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Even after the front nine, I played pretty well.  Just didn't make any putts, as I haven't really all week.  Not enough.  Then played great around the back nine, pretty close a lot.  Birdied the three par 5s, knocked it on those in two.   
 I'm very pleased with the way I'm playing and I'm in contention again.  So it's a nice time to play golf.   
  
  Q.  You've been in the Top-10, I think 11 out of your last 12 starts, you're enjoying the contention, is it frustrating not to have won?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, I have won in there.  I won the British Masters.  So there is a win already.  You know, lost in a playoff in Shanghai.  And really I didn't deserve to be or thereabouts, just played average the first couple of rounds.   
 All you can do is keep putting yourself in contention on Sunday and in the last couple of groups within striking distance and I've been doing that, so that's my main goal now.   
  
  Q.  How will you approach tomorrow's final round?  Quality leaderboard.   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, it will be exciting.  I'm looking forward to it.  A lot of good players up there.  I would have thought somebody would have got away more.  It didn't seem as difficult as yesterday today.  I did feel like there was a 65 out there.   
 It was a solid round, but didn't really make as many putts as I would have liked.  The longest one was about eight feet on the 14th, so hopefully tomorrow, saving them all up for them and I can get them all in in one round.   
  
  Q.  Are you being overly modest in using the word solid?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, I am modest.   
  
  Q.  Overly modest.   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  You know, you can only say it as you see it.  It was a really solid round of golf and the best I've played all week.   
 There's massive room for improvements on the green for sure.  Start making a few from 15, 20 feet and there's a real low one in there.  You know, I'll be looking for that tomorrow.   
 I've played well.  I've had quite a few Top 10's and always felt like it ought to be a golf course that suits me but never really played well at this time of year.  And this time I'm coming in here with some form and I've started the year off well, so again, I'm delighted.   
  
  Q.  We've gone through this over the last couple of weeks, but it's not overly frustrating because you're just holding it all together very nicely and the win will come.   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I've said all I can do is keep putting myself in position to win the golf tournament on Saturday night, Sunday morning and if things go my way on Sunday and the way I'm playing, I feel like I'll win, if I have the breaks and roll in a few putts.   
 And if I don't, so be it, but that's all I'm trying to do every week is get into contention.   
  
  Q.  Any fancy of what kind of score will win?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Not really.  A bit of surprise today that somebody didn't get further ahead.  Maybe they will.  Maybe they will have a big finish.  Doesn't look like it.  Looks like I'll be three behind.   
  
  Q.  An interesting mix, isn't it, a lot of good golfers.   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Golf is funny, wins by seven at his own tournament, eight last week, and you think leading by two after one day here, you'd think it's over and he's running away.  But golf has a funny way of reining you in and just when you think you've got it, it bites you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT