VOLVO MASTERS
October 27, 2006
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Pleased with the way things worked out in the end?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Played all right today.  Probably not as good as yesterday.  But the conditions sort of made you not play well.  It was tough out there.

When I needed to scramble, I scrambled and I hit enough good shots out there and played the last three holes great and I missed a good chance at 16 from about six feet and birdied the last two, so I was pleased with the way I finished.
Q.  Finishing in that fashion obviously does wonders for confidence and obviously has for score?
LEE WESTWOOD:  It's always nice to finish up a round here.  And especially here, the last few holes can be tough and there's a big difference between 1 under and 3 under.
Q.  Especially in those conditions, how tough was it for you out there?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, it was pretty tricky.  We got the wind and the monsoon that came through just at the wrong time as well, on the 17th green    sorry, on the 11th green.  That was tricky, and I dropped a shot in those conditions.  But you're going to get it at some point and just unlucky we got it when we were at the highest point in the course.
Q.  As for the man who is practising on the range next to you, don't know if you know about his finish, but five birdies in the last six, astonishing stuff in those conditions?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, you know, if you hit good shots, it's on.  The greens are good.  If you start it on line, they generally go in.  So somebody is going to play well.
Q.  Well, you are back on the range now, does that mean there's something about your game    probably always the case, but something always to work on?
LEE WESTWOOD:  You've hit the nail on the head.  There's always something to work on.  It's sort of a work in progress, the golf swing all the time, you're never quite happy.  Just fine-tuning a few things which I've done all year and hopefully it's going the right direction.  The way I've played the first two days it certainly feels like that.
Q.  You couldn't be in a better position for the weekend, barely?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Well it would be nice to be one in front of Henrik instead of one behind.

I'm happy to be there, it looks like I'll be in the last or second to last group.  So you know, it's another nice lie in.  That's the great thing about this tournament, great tee off times if you play well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT