PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 20, 2007
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Thoughts on that, a good day?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  I played solidly, pretty much like yesterday and the first day, only not a lot happened yesterday and not a lot happened today.  Haven't had many decent breaks the last two days and not really holing any putts.  So looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  15-under today --   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  It was always going to be like that.  The penalties are not severe enough for missing fairways and stuff like that.  If you're playing good, you shouldn't really make too many bogeys.   
  
  Q.  When you're playing as well as you are, do you almost want to come to a really tough test?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  I'd like the fairways to have been a lot tighter this week and the rough a lot thicker.  It's possible around here, you know.  The more times we play this venue, the more the Tour learn how to set it up, so it's, you know, demanding.    
  
  Q.  Another win in your last European Tour event of the season, that would be all right.   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  That would be great.  Came here obviously just wanting to play well, and really cement my place in the Top 15 of the Order of Merit so I'm exempt for everything next year.   
 Obviously I'd like to have more World Ranking points and build some confidence after missing the three-round cut at the Dunhill.   
  
  Q.  Considering back in April, you had not won in quite a length of time, it's what you want, isn't it.   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, the last few weeks I turned up to tournaments thinking that if I play well, I've got a really good chance of winning it.  I could have done a lot better at Gleneagles and a lot better at Germany and Switzerland and, you know, all came together at The Belfry.  And hopefully, you know, won't be too far behind tonight and come out quick tomorrow and try to make a few of those putts I've been missing and keep playing the way I'm playing, because it's all pretty solid at the moment.   
  
  Q.  Sam led you for a lot of the way today, he's come on as well, hasn't he?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Sam's turned into a good player.  It's amazing what confidence does in any sport, but probably more so at golf.  He's played lovely.  Holed a lot of good par putts when he needed to and some good birdie putts.  Yeah, he did well.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT