PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 18, 2007
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  7-under today, you're playing golf very well at the moment, your irons are good, putting nicely; how does it all feel?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  It feels good.  Everything is coming together nicely.  Like you said I've driven the ball really well today.  A couple of sloppy iron shots, but nothing really to worry about.  Bad bogey at four but just lost my concentration a bit.   
  
  Q.  You shoot 7-under par, 65, and you're four behind, what about that?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, it was like that about five weeks ago in germ my with me.  I shot 61 in the first round. So I know what he's going through and I know what he's going to go through tonight.  It's never easy to keep going like that when you've shot 61.   
  
  Q.  You don't really care about that sort of stuff tomorrow, you come out and do your own stuff, what's your plan, just pretty much do the same thing?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, pretty much like I played today.  I feel like I left a few out there today and I'm sure this is low scoring -- I shot 62 in the Pro-Am yesterday so I'm getting the hang of the golf course.   
  
  Q.  You've already won twice this season.   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I've got four tournaments left, all big tournaments, and like you say, I've won twice and two after that would be great, build up some World Ranking points and plummet up the World Ranking points and get some Ryder Cup points, as well.   
  
  Q.  65 out there today; did you expect to be four behind and shooting 65?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I knew that I would be behind if I only shot 65.  Shot 62 myself in the Pro-Am yesterday without really concentrating.  So I knew there's a low score out there and there's no wind to speak of today.  So we need a bit of wind for the next couple of days to obviously test everybody a bit.   
  
  Q.  The greens are perfect, and you seem to have found your putting touch a little bit.  You haven't had a great season on the greens so far this year, even though you have won twice.  Do greens like this help everything out?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, obviously, when they are true like this, you start it going on line, it helps a lot.  I've started putting well a few weeks back in Germany when I shot 61 the first round, and I've held that together ever since. I didn't putt great at Dunhill, but I found those greens a little tricky as you can do with the greens on St. Andrews and links greens in general.   
It's all put together nicely and I do feel like I have some really low scores in me at the moment.   
  
  Q.  What type of pace do you feel that you'll have to hold up for the whole week to win?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  I've set myself sort of between 20- and 23-under.  If I shoot that, then I won't be disappointed.   
  
  Q.  That's an amazing total to have to shoot for.  Do you think about it or just go out and play golf?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  You just play golf.  If I'm 20-under par after three days, I'll be thinking lower than that, and you have to sort of alter your strategy as the week goes by.   
 But the par 5s are reachable around here for the longer hitters, and there's a couple of par 4s where you can get it close to the green.  So it doesn't give you a lot of chances at pars, really.  FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT