THE QUINN DIRECT BRITISH MASTERS
September 22, 2007
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LEE WESTWOOD:  It was a test of my patience out there and very frustrating. I made two bad swings all day, or what I consider poor swings. That was my second into the ninth. I was trapped in between clubs. I didn't want to go long with a six iron and I knew seven iron would leave me 15 feet short, so I wiped the club face across it and cut it into the wind. It came up 10-15 yards shot than it normally would and I was in the water.   
 I did lose my concentration and got frustrated after the horseshoe out on 13. I said to Ali I got frustrated and made a bad swing. He said don't be frustrated, which is easy said I know, but I regrouped mentally and made a lot of good swings coming in.   
 It was a battle and I've played a lot better than 70 today, but how often do you say that coming off the golf course? It happens a lot. There was a chance of me letting it get to me at the 14th, and not doing and regrouping rewarded me. I got those 3 birdies in the last 4 holes.   
 It's going to be a fight tomorrow. Someone will come out and shoot 67 and that will do it. I'm playing well and my short game is good, but I just have to have the mental attitude and approach I had on the last four holes, and not the first 14. It's not good getting frustrated because the putts aren't going in, as it will cost you shots. It very nearly did today but I was just able to regroup.   
 I'm getting closer to the winning habit. I wouldn't have finished with three birdies in the last four holes three weeks ago. Today, I did that and did it at the right time, so I think I am getting the habit back.   
 "Am I the favourite? No. There are a lot of good players up there - Monty, Fasth, Poulter - all have proved they can win. Mark I've known all my life and what he's capable of, so it'll be an exciting day for everybody. If I was going to the bookmakers tomorrow morning, I'd be betting on one person - but then I'm biased!   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT