PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2007
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Lee, can you tell us what you hit in on your birdie holes on 4 and 13 and 14?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  I had a pitching wedge to about four feet on four.  A pitching wedge on 7 to about a foot.  On 13, I hit 6-iron about 18 feet behind the hole.  And 14, I hit a 4-iron about 12 feet behind the hole.   
  
  Q.  What do you think it is about your game that hits very well at Southern Hills that made you come out with 69 today?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  I've been place pretty well.  I've hit a lot of fairways today which is what I've been doing quite a lot recently.  My whole game feels very solid, so I'm looking forward to test.  It's a tough one.  It's going to examine you physically and mentally.   
  
  Q.  What happened on 8?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Just pushed my 2-iron a little bit.  I was guarding against missing the green left because I knew that wouldn't be great.  And then, you know, the bunkers are a little tricky.  It's kind of gritty sand and I was trying not to leave it to far short of the hole and caught it a bit clean and it went 40 feet past and then I 3-putted.   
 I'm not too worried about that.  I'll take anything under par for now.   
  
  Q.  Overall, impressions and the conditions?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  It's pretty hot, but if you don't let the conditions get to you and drink lots of water and stay in the shade whenever possible, it's playable out there.   
  
  Q.  Afternoon tee time going to be a disadvantage?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, we're all going to have one, so, you know, it's just one of those things.  It's just going to heat up and the greens will get a bit firmer.   
 You know, who knows what will happen.   
  
  Q.  How many fairways did you miss?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  I think I missed two.   
  
  Q.  And how did you find the rough when you were in it?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I mean, you can get 8-, or 9-iron in there.  Unfortunately the one I hit it where the crowd stood and then pitched out to 15 feet and left that hanging on the edge.  And I missed the 12th fairway on the right and I had 137 front and I hit a 9-iron and it came up, pitched it short of the green.   
 You know, you obviously want to be in the fairway but occasionally you do get a lie.   
  
  Q.  We had not seen a heck of a lot of you early in the year but you said that you'd been on an upward trend the last few weeks; what's been causing the resurgence in your game?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, I've been playing good since the start of the year.  I've played over in Asia on The European Tour.  I've played pretty steadily without, you know, doing too much.   
 I got myself into position and then not capitalized on being in position.   
  
  Q.  First day of a major, is today just sort of maintain and just try to shoot a round close to par and anything under par like yourself is kind of a bonus?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I think you obviously want to get off to a good start and 3-under would have been better than 1-under but certainly not going to do any damage with a round of 69 out there.   
  
  Q.  Do you think that somebody is going to be able to post a 65 this week?   
 LEE WESTWOOD:  I'm sure if you play well enough; I could have shot 65 today I think.  I gave myself a lot of chances.  17, 1, 3, I missed from between eight and ten feet.   
 So, you know, I had my chances, but just double-bogey at 8 cost me.  Turned a 67 into a 69.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT