BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
September 1, 2006
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Is the driver repairable?
LEE WESTWOOD:  I wouldn't think so.
Q.  How much did you practise?
LEE WESTWOOD:  About four or five shots.
Q.  In total, not just this week?
LEE WESTWOOD:  In total.  It's brand new.  It's a brand new one.  I've got another one that's the same, but I've got another one.  So I thought I might as well take that one.
Q.  How many times have you played with it?
LEE WESTWOOD:  A few times.  I felt fairly comfortable.  I was in the semi rough once with it, so it may stay in the bag for tomorrow.

I'll go on the range this afternoon, just hit a few balls, a couple of drivers.  I brought two drivers that, one and another one, and pick one and go with it tomorrow.
Q.  How long had you been using the one that broke?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Since L.A.  It happens regularly.  I did four in one year once.  I think they make them disposable now.
Q.  Pleased with your position in the tournament?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Not too bad.  Better than I expected on Tuesday night when I was thinking of not coming, that's for sure.
Q.  Talked to Woosie yet?
LEE WESTWOOD:  No.  Not seen him.  I was in bed early last night up and early this morning.
Q.  Have you chatted to Darren at all lately?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Spoke to Darren yesterday morning.  He's cleaning the garage out.
Q.  How's the frame of mind?
LEE WESTWOOD:  He sounded all right.  You know, only time will tell.  Got a lot to get over, so not to be rushing him.  You just have to leave him to it and let him do it himself.  He'll know when it's right.  And whatever he thinks is right is definitely right.
Q.  Did he ask for your input on whether he should play in Madrid or did you speak to him about that?
LEE WESTWOOD:  No.  I think it would be great if he played in Madrid, if he's considering, you know, if he were to get a pick, wants to be considered for a pick and he did get one, I think Madrid would be a great idea.  I know how I feel after a long break.
Q.  Are you still thinking you will probably be able to play Singapore?
LEE WESTWOOD:  I don't know yet.  I've not really made a decision.  See how the weekend goes.
Q.  Are you feeling any better today than you were yesterday?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I'm feeling a bit better.  The pills are certainly working.  Just you know, it's the after effects feel a bit lethargic and "uugghh" is the best way to describe it.
Q.  Do you know what your temperature got to?
LEE WESTWOOD:  It got to about 104 I think.
Q.  On Monday, is that when it was at its worst?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, 2 1/2 days, it just kept coming down and going up there.
Q.  Is that an achievement to come over when you're feeling this bad and to have form this well?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, it's good.  I don't think anybody's ever doubted I've got fire in me and guts, so I'm not surprised to come out and battle my way through.  It's not been the best golf.  It's been decent.  I don't think anybody from the outside would have spotted any weaknesses, but you know, I know I can hit it better than I've hit it, but I didn't expect to hit well, just wouldn't expect to do well.
Q.  Did you come here saying to yourself, well, there is a Ryder Cup place to be won or did that play a part in your thinking?
LEE WESTWOOD:  That's the only reason I'm here, really.
Q.  Do you think you've done enough now to say, mission accomplished?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Go and ask Woosie when he comes out.  (Laughing)
Q.  Do you feel you've accomplished it?
LEE WESTWOOD:  No, definitely not, no.  And now, you know, if I'm feeling any better over the weekend I'm going to be challenging for the tournament.
Q.  You're not feeling well; you're scoring probably as well as you have all year.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, yeah, I haven't made a bogey yet.  I made a nice double down 10, but yeah, it's been pretty good.  More than I expected, really, with the way I was feeling.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT