WGC NEC INVITATIONAL
August 20, 2005
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  What was the difference, they went in?
LEE WESTWOOD:  No, I played all right.  I was right on the edge of playing good the first two days.  This course is quite punishing.  If you just start missing fairways by a couple of yards.  I didn't do that today.  I hit a lot of good shots, hit it close a lot, hit it five feet at the 10th, seven feet at 11, made a good par save from about 12 feet at 12, which was the only time I ever really looked like dropping a shot.

Two good shots into the next to 15 feet, two good shots into the next to 15 feet, 6 iron to 15 feet on 15, made that.  Sand iron, third shot to about a foot on the next.

7 iron on the next to about 18 inches on 17.

Lob wedge after a good drive on 18 to about four feet.  Then I dropped chances all the way around the back nine.

Driver, 5 wood to 30 feet on 2 and two putted it.

I had a good chance at 5, straight up the hill.  Long range putting was a lot better today.  Obviously I didn't drop any shots like the last day.  Yesterday I three putted that, so it was good to get there.
Q.  Just getting into a rhythm?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, and the more I play over here, the more I feel like I do get into the rhythm of things and start to get the most out of my game.
Q.  Do you think you were playing smarter, playing more conservative?  Did less wind help you out?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Obviously the course is going to play a little easier when there's less wind, but you've still got to hit the fairways, which is not easy around here.  It wasn't a case of playing any smarter, it was just a case of maximizing the way I played today.
Q.  Did you like the early start?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Not particularly, but obviously now that the weather is coming in in about a half an hour's time, I obviously do like it.
Q.  Talk about that stretch from 15 to 18 where you really got rolling and got four straight birdies.  Talk about that.
LEE WESTWOOD:  I could have birdied 13 and 14, as well.  I missed good chances there.  I hit a 6 iron into 15 right under the hole and hit it stiff at 16 and 17 after a bad tee shot at 17 into the rough, got lucky, caught a good lie, hit it stone dead.

Then at 18, busted a drive down there and only had about 86 yards to the flag, so it was right down there, and I hit a lob wedge, which was about the right distance.
Q.  (Inaudible).
LEE WESTWOOD:  A few times.  I've played a lot better over here this year.  You know, I've shot a lot lower scores, I just haven't really managed to put four rounds together.  But I'm still only 32 years old and starting to feel more adjusted to over here.
Q.  On 16 when you drove your tee shot into the right rough, did you hit a 4 iron?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, a 4 iron and a sand iron from 112.
Q.  Are you good at leaving disappointments like last Sunday's behind you?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, no problem.  I've had lots of good days at golf and a few disappointments, so you never know what's around the corner.
Q.  Talk about playing today with the two former champions.  Did they give you any kind of advice during the round?
LEE WESTWOOD:  No, it's against the rules of golf to get advice (laughter).
Q.  Did you have a wager?
LEE WESTWOOD:  No, we didn't have a bet.  It was too early in the morning to strike up a bet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT