DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 28, 2006
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Lee, you are renowned for a calm, unflappable temperament.  That must have tested even you.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, it was quite frustrating out there.  I hit a lot of good shots.  It got the best of me on a couple of par 5s, missed a couple of putts.  It's something to learn by.  There's no point in dwelling on it as many good shots as I hit.  I just couldn't get the ball in the hole.  In the afternoon the greens aren't quite so good, either.
Q.  Did you feel you were making a good stroke?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I felt like I was hitting good putts.  One of them maybe on the par 3, 14th, was not a great stroke, but most of them felt like good putts.  They were just snaking off.  Yeah, I could be 17 , 18 under as easily as anything, so I'm pleased about that.
Q.  It's a positive thing to take into the weekend?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Oh, yeah.  I'm playing very solidly tee to green, hitting the ball straight and a long way, hit shots close, so you could see for yourself I had my chances today.  Some days they don't go in.  I'll try to keep a little bit of rhythm and let the steam out of the ears and come back tomorrow.
Q.  You had 61 in the third round here in '98 when you won.  Was there one of those out there today?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Oh, certainly.  I could have shot 61 today, but I missed    I was 4 under after 6 and I missed from seven feet on the 3rd for eagle.  It was certainly out there.
Q.  Do you put yourself as the favorite?  What are your thoughts on that?
LEE WESTWOOD:  I don't think I'm naive enough to think that Retief and Robert Karlsson, Woozy, aren't great players and lots of good young players like Charl Schwartzel to name but a few.  If they decide I'm favorite, so be it, but I don't pay much attention to that.  I'm just sticking to my plans for the weekend.
Q.  Well played, terrific start to the round and then just not able to capitalize on it.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I played very solidly.  Even in the start, 6 under after 6, missed it six, seven feet on 3 for eagle, and then it continued after the 6th, knocking it inside 15 feet and missing it.  It's the scoring range, but the greens aren't good enough.  They're getting a little bit bumpy and they snake around a bit.  Sometimes you hit good putts and they don't go in, and I hit a lot of them on the back nine.
Q.  Was it starting to get frustrating?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, on the par 3 I hit 4 iron in there to eight, nine feet, and I just lost my cool a little bit, tried to chill out a little bit on 15 and 17, and there was no need for it.  That's something to learn from today.
Q.  It's a little while since you've been up in this position.  Are you feeling comfortable there?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I was up in this position four weeks ago at the European Open.  I finished 4th but I was tied for the lead at one stage.  I know what to do when a situation arises like this.  I played poorly there for a couple of years.  When you don't win 26, 27 tournaments    (inaudible).
Q.  It's one of these courses where you're going to have to push on.  Any idea what the winning total is likely to be?
LEE WESTWOOD:  I have no idea.  Could be anything.  If it doesn't go right for you and you play very solidly, then it's 68, and if they do go in, then it's 61, 62.  You just have to stay patient and take your chances out there.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT