DEUTSCHE BANK PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP OF EUROPE
July 27, 2006
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Lee, thanks, as always, for coming in to join us.  Your form recently has suggested a return to the height that we know you can play, and today was an example of that.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I'm delighted.  I got back from Washington and a flight into Paris and played okay there the last round and carried it through the final week where I finished 4th and I had a decent chance, and then the next two weeks I played all right, as well.  Today it was just a case of building up my confidence all the time.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Just give us the details.  You started at 10, birdied 12.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Hit a driver and a wedge, lipped out, finished about 18 inches away.
SCOTT CROCKETT:  And 13 was?
LEE WESTWOOD:  3 iron, wedge to ten feet.

Four in a row, 15, 5 wood into the trap, out to about eight feet.

16, 7 iron about 20 feet.

17, driver, 5 iron to about 50 feet, two putts.

18, driver, wedge to about 15, 16 feet.

3, saved par, hit it in the water, dropped and hit it to about two feet.

Driver, 4 iron to about two feet.

6 was driver, 4 iron just off the front edge 40 feet, two putts.

7, driver, wedge to about 15 feet.
Q.  I think you've won twice here on this course, so it's clearly something that you like.  Is it playing easier than you ever remember it with the conditions?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, there's a lack of rough obviously with it being so hot.  It's been burnt away.  The fairways are running a little bit more than usual, but that can be an advantage or disadvantage.  It can run off the fairways into the rough.

It helps that the greens are quite soft.  I think they're putting water on because if they don't put it on they'll just die during the day because it's going to be in the mid 30s.

Yeah, it's a little bit easier, but when you do throw lots of water on the greens overnight, they tend to snake around a little bit, and fortunately I didn't have that problem today.
Q.  Winning here this week, obviously it would give you another win again, but the Ryder Cup, have you changed your stance on the Ryder Cup?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Two questions to get to a Ryder Cup question.  Brilliant.
Q.  The first one was important, to get your next win.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, that's all I'm concentrating on at the moment.  Obviously if I get a win under my belt, that would push me into the reckoning for a Ryder Cup spot.
Q.  How keen are you to play?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Oh, very keen to play.  I've played four now and played pretty well in all of them, so it's obviously great to represent your country and continent.  It's a week that you don't really want to miss out on.

My main objective at the moment is to just play well and try and play my way into the side of these next four tournaments that I've got left.  If I do that, that would be great, and if I don't, hopefully I'll play well enough and Woozy will look at me and think, "yeah, he's starting to play some good golf," hopefully looks at my record and thinks, "he won around that course a couple of times and could do it on the team."  I'm trying to push my case for a pick.  But I'm still not taking it; I'm actually trying to play my way in there rather than rely on somebody picking me.
Q.  You mentioned confidence there at the start and it was also a word you used at the Open last week.  What in specifics are you looking for?  Is it just on the greens or the European Tour?
LEE WESTWOOD:  In general really.  From tee to green my confidence is high.  I've got good control of the ball, lots of penetration on my iron shots if the wind does get up like it did today.  Obviously on the greens you need to roll a few in.  There's nothing like holing putts to give you self confidence on the greens, so it was nice to roll a few in today that I've been missing, and today I rolled a few in, so that was a step in the right direction.
Q.  You have a very good record here, and of course three years ago you won in Munich after a long run without wins.  Is there something about Germany that brings out the best in you?
LEE WESTWOOD:  I don't know what it is.  I guess the golf courses suit me.  I've always enjoyed coming to Germany.  I can't think what it might be.  I just feel comfortable here.

Unlike our football team.
Q.  You mentioned four more tournaments left.  Can you tell us which ones they are?
LEE WESTWOOD:  This one and then the PGA, Bridgestone and the BMW.
Q.  And there's no plans to add anything in?  If let's say you did win this week, I think you would go 11th or 12th on the Ryder Cup list.
LEE WESTWOOD:  No, I'm going on holiday next week.  I've played six in a row and starting to feel a bit weary.  It's been a long week and I've made every cut.  It hasn't been on the cold side should we say.  I'm feeling a bit drained, but I'll take on plenty of water this week and not feel stressful and hopefully finish one off with a nice win and then go on holiday and enjoy it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT