BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2005
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LEE WESTWOOD:  I didn't play particularly great.  Didn't have a great deal of luck and a good finish.
Q.  What was the bad luck, where was that?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Generally scattered among the first 15 holes    14 holes.
Q.  What happened on 7?
LEE WESTWOOD:  A good tee shot and a nice 8 iron which landed sort of 15 feet right of the side and kicked right.  That was very thick rough all around it, just short side, another chip.  Left it just on the edge of the green, but I 3 putted the previous hole after nearly driving the green, hitting it 20 yards short of the front edge, found a horrible lie, a good chip; and everything kicks around on that green, it kicked right and then 3 putted it to compound it; and took 6 at the next.

Then on 9, 3 iron out just off the edge of the green.  And then 10, I hit a lovely shot to land on the green and rolled right to the back and pitched it on the front fringe and it stopped dead, 15 feet short of the hole.  It just stops up, and it's bang on line; it would be stone dead.  Hit two good shots at the next, got a flyer on my second shot after my drive kicks right out of the fairway into the rough.  Got a flyer there through the back, just short of the flag but dead.

Hit it to 18 feet on the next, leave it two feet short, miss it.  3 wood, 9 iron, six feet at 15, knock it over.  The only putt I didn't hole was 16.  Hit a great putt there.  On the last, I hit what I thought was a lovely second shot.  Pitched on the front and it stopped dead and that just summed the day up.
Q.  Not bad.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Quite happy to get around in 72 because I didn't have much luck with the greens.
Q.  Does it play that much differently from October?
LEE WESTWOOD:  It's not as good a test this time of year as it is at the World Match Play in October.  It plays a lot    it plays a lot fairer and a lot more how it should.  Technology isn't so much an influence in October.  I mean, it's a great course and the greens, of course, aren't seeding because you're coming to the end of the season and they are just a bit truer.  It's just the nature of the grass and the type of course it is.  I suppose it's unnaturally hard at the moment, as well, which compounds it all because you get some weird kicks out there.
Q.  Just expand on that a bit, technology not being so much of an influence.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, the course just plays longer.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT