HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 17, 2004
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us your symptoms, you obviously were not very well when you finished?
LEE WESTWOOD: No I am not feeling well at all, I'm feeling awful and to be honest I have felt awful all day. The doctor has told me I have a chest infection and a virus so he has given me something to take tonight and tomorrow before I can get to see my own doctor. I slept terribly last night after not feeling fantastic yesterday. The main area where it affected me today was putting, bending over and trying to remain still over the ball, I kept feeling like I had no balance and I felt like I was moving all over the place, which is not the best thing to have when you are putting. It is in my ears as well.
Q. Not the ideal way you would have wanted to play such an important final?
LEE WESTWOOD: Obviously not, and I think Ernie will be the first one to admit that he hasn't played his best out there today and I think if I had been on form I would have had a really good chance, there were just too many three putts for me to have a chance. I three putted the first and three putted the 16th at the death there, didn't birdie the 12th, I just couldn't concentrate really, the main thing I was having to concentrate on was putting one foot in front of the other, never mind anything else.
Q. Are you okay to drive home?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yes I'll be fine. As well as that, I feel clammy all over but I think that the best thing I can do now is get into the car and get home to my bed as quickly as possible. As far as the final was concerned, you don't want to jack it in, you want to keep going as long as you can, but I just didn't hole any putts because I couldn't concentrate. It is just one of those things though, isn't it. It has been a long three weeks and we have played in some atrocious conditions, end of a long season, I feel quite run down to be honest and this today just sapped all my energy.
Q. Plans now?
LEE WESTWOOD: A week off and hopefully I will be fit for Valderrrama, that's the plan.
Q. If Valderrama had been next week, would you have played?
LEE WESTWOOD: No I think the way that I am feeling right now, that would be highly unlikely.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT