DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
March 5, 2005
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How do you feel about your performance today at 11-under par?
LEE WESTWOOD:  I played great today.  Should have been a lot better.  Missed from three feet on the first and three putted from about four feet on the 6. Don;t know what happened there. Missed a lot of other chances. Left it short on the hole a couple times on the back nine and a silly bogey on 16.  I just feel like I should have shot 62, which is great.

It's as good as I've played in a long, long time.  My swing feels as comfortable as it has in a long, long time today.  The short game is much better.  I played some great bunker shots and had some great chips. All looks good. Holed a couple of decent putts out there with a bit of break on them so the ball is generally going where I want it to.
Q.  All of the experts say the short game is what you've really worked on; that shot on 13 was part of it?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah that was a great bunker shot.  I had a great bunker shot on 10, as well. Lovely chip on the last. Don't know how that didn't go in. I was expecting it to break into the hole. But to be giving myself a chance and getting up-and-down is a massive bonus; It's just not been rolling, three shots into two and two shots into one.
Q.  Can you talk about your interest in horse racing?
LEE WESTWOOD:  We have a couple of great horses, bothvery good horses lining them up for the World Cup in a three weeks' time.  So looking forward tonight to see them do their stuff and getting a bit of an indication as to how good they are.

I'm not serious about it.  It's merely a hobby.  I don't throw too much money into it.  Most of the horses are syndicates as well, a leg here or there. The most I have in any horse is a half. It's a great interest away from golf.  You can't afford to go skiing or football, so horse racing is good.  You can't get injured with it. All the other sportsmen going golfing but that would be like a busman's holiday for us.
Q.  Inaudible?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Right Approach is a great horse. We bought it off Her Majesty the Queen, from Sir Michael Stout. He has turned out to be great buy and given us a lot of fun.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT