WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2005
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT CROCKETT:  Lee, thanks for coming in.  Good morning for you, comprehensive win over Steve Flesch.  Give us your thoughts on making it through round 1.
LEE WESTWOOD:  I played very solidly today.  I got off to a good start, got 3 up after five holes, and Steve played a bit scrappy at the start there, and I won three holes very quickly.  And then I didn't play badly then; I didn't give him any holes, didn't give him any birdies.  He got one back at the 14th, but I managed to halve the 15th and that was it.  So I played very solidly all day and didn't really make too many putts but a lot more good putts than I have been hitting recently.  And I managed to get
Q.  The one on 6 or 7 up the hill?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Missed that one, actually.  I hit it a bit too hard.  But he hit it in the creek there.  Chances were I was going to win that one.  But it was obviously nice to make a birdie.
Q.  Just address the playability out there, what it was like, and whether anything had been mowed.
LEE WESTWOOD:  Well, other than the 9th it was business as usual, really.  Obviously I knew it was going to be very wet.  But the greens are certainly dry enough and the tees, and there's only a couple of fairways where it's tricky to find somewhere.  Obviously the 9th has been shortened to a par 3, which sometimes you can't help.  But I've done that before, I've been doing it.  So I think for match play it was just about playable.

Stroke play, I would doubt we would be playing, but that's different.  We both play on the same hole at the same time, so it was all very fair.
Q.  Did you have any particular unusual drops because of today?
LEE WESTWOOD:  No, I didn't actually have to have a drop for casual water all day.  Placing was enough for me, really.
Q.  Did you knock it in the rough at all?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Yeah, I knocked it in the rough once on 17.
Q.  How was that?
LEE WESTWOOD:  It's like a solid bog down the side of it.
Q.  That's what I was waiting for right down there.
LEE WESTWOOD:  That's what you are were waiting for, okay, there you go.
Q.  Did you have to alter your game at all because of the course conditions?  Did you change shot placement?
LEE WESTWOOD:  No not really.  You obviously play a few more three quarter shots on the amount of spin, and with the wet fairways, you try to get the ball a little tighter and to put it back in your stance a bit, which can mean your iron shots go a bit shorter, because you don't quite get as much compression on it.  It was tricky out there; you have to use a bit more imagination with the iron shots.
Q.  Was the ball running out at all or was it stopping?
LEE WESTWOOD:  No, it's just stopping, just about as long until they shortened the 9th to par 3.  It's about as long as it's ever going to play.
Q.  So have you done any studying in your bracket to kind of look at what you might have ahead?
LEE WESTWOOD:  No, not really.  My goal was obviously today to beat Steve, and now I've got Davis tomorrow.  So just got to concentrate on that one, who I'm playing tomorrow.
Q.  Have you played him in match play before?
LEE WESTWOOD:  Not in this, I don't think.  In Ryder Cups but not in a singles.  I think fourball, maybe foursomes.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT