THE RYDER CUP MATCHES
September 16, 2004
Darren Clarke
Luke Donald
Sergio Garcia
Padraig Harrington
Miguel Angel Jimenez
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DARREN CLARKE:  Obviously, we are looking forward to the match and can't wait for it all to get started really. We have done all we can in practice and I think both Miguel and I are eager to get the match and the whole Ryder Cup started. We have played a couple of practice rounds together and he is playing fantastically well and I am looking forward to partnering him. We get on well together, he is a great guy and we have gelled really well on the course. Davis and Chad are two good guys and obviously great players so it should be great match. I'm really looking forward to it.

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Initial reaction?  Wow. It is going to be a very interesting match. We are both playing very well and I think all the pairings are very good, the way they are set up. We hope tomorrow to have some luck on the golf course.
Q.  How have you and Darren been gelling?

MIGUEL ANGEL JIMENEZ:  Very well. We enjoyed it very much. He is playing very well from tee to green and putting well. I am also playing very well, all departments of my game is very good also. The chances in the game are good. But we are not the only two who play. The other two also know how to play. It is going to be very nice.

They are both good players. It is going to be interesting. That is all I can say at the moment. We will see how things go tomorrow with the pressure and all the things around. It is not only about two players, it is about four players in the same match. Just play golf and enjoy ourselves. That is the main thing.
Q.  Back in partnership with Lee?

SERGIO GARCIA: Looking forward to it. We had some good vibrations at the Belfry and hopefully we can keep it going this week. All the pairings are very equal so it can definitely go either way but hopefully we can get off to a good start and put ourselves up there.
Q. How has it been playing with Lee?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Good, as always. We get along very nicely and that is very important when it comes to playing teams. We are really looking forward to it and hoping we can get some points on our side.
Q.  Against Toms and Furyk?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Very tough pairing. Both players are very consistent, very straight hitters, good putters. It is going to be tough so we have to go out there and play our game, play nice and aggressive and make a whole bunch of birdies. If we can manage to do that we can put some pressure on them.
Q.  Any surprises on the teams, Mickelson and Woods out first?

SERGIO GARCIA:  Nothing really. Whoever you put in both these teams are all strong. It's hard to leave anyone out.
Q.  Your Ryder Cup debut tomorrow?

LUKE DONALD:  Really looking forward to it. Bernhard obviously has some trust in my game and really looking forward to it. It has been a long few days and looking forward to it all starting off eventually.
Q.  How much have you played with Paul McGinley?

LUKE DONALD:  Only the once so not a lot, but I am happy to play with him. He is a great player, has been playing great the last couple of months and has some experience of the Ryder Cup so it will be nice to play with someone who has already been there. We actually played against Harrington and McGinley but we get on very well. Have similar games so hopefully we will gel well.
Q.  Were you expecting to be partnered with Paul Casey after practising with him?

LUKE DONALD:  It could have easily gone that but I am just happy to be playing. It is a good draw, playing against Chris Riley and Stewart Cink. They are a good pairing. I am good friends with Chris so we shoulod have some fun out there.
Q.  Back with Sergio again?

LEE WESTWOOD:  It's great. We have had three practice rounds together and from last time we had a good record together at the Belfry. I'm playing a bit better now so we should do well. We get on very well, that's the main explanation for it. We have a good time out there. A good laugh, don't take it too seriously and get on with the job. We play well together. Sergio is playing very well. He played nine holes out there the other day in six or seven under par. He is a class act. It's nice to have him as a partner.
Q.  Playing Furyk and Toms?

LEE WESTWOOD:  Both solid players, both good Ryder Cup players, Played well last time. Little surprised to see Mickelson and Toms split up but obviously he wants to come out with his two best players straugth away, numbers two and four and the world and that speaks for itself.

I expected to see maybe Mickelson Toms and Riley with Woods. All four are playing but with different players. Stewart Cink is playing very well at the moment, Davis is an old campaigner in the cup and has a rookie with him. No surprises there.
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  It is what we expected. It is exactly as we predicted. No surprise to us. That's the way we wanted it.
Q.  The big guns out first?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I don't know if we are the big guns going out against them but hopefully we will manage our games against them. Monty has the experience and I am usually pretty determined. They are the big stars. It will be an interesting match ahead of us. We thought they would be together so it isn't a surprise. Basically we chose to out that match out there.
Q.  Your relationship with Colin?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  We get on very well. Certainly I have a lot of respect for his game. He is someone I played with in the last Ryder Cup and I am looking forward to playing with him in this one.
Q.  All three Irish players in the first session as well?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  We have been showing some form. Paul played great coming into this. It doesn't really matter who plays to be honest or where they are from as long as we get the points.
Q.  What about the rest of the lineup?
PADRAIG HARRINGTON:  I haven't looked past my own game and that is it. I'm looking forward for it to start and I'm ready for it at this stage.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT