BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
September 28, 2017
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LEE WESTWOOD: Played nicely.  Obviously didn't make a bogey and really didn't stress myself too much.  Pretty good and rolled it all right on the greens.  So looking forward to tomorrow morning.
Q. What was the key for you today?
LEE WESTWOOD: Everything was good.  Hit my iron shots pretty good.  Just a solid performance.  I didn't really get myself into too much trouble.
Q. Course looked in great shape.  How is it playing?
LEE WESTWOOD: It was good.  Yeah, obviously there was a lot of rain overnight.  Seems a bit wetter than the practice rounds.  Greens in Britain this time of year, they get chewed up in the afternoon but you're still able to hole putts.  Obviously it was a really good scoring day with the sun being out and not much wind.  I thought the course has held up pretty well, so 7-under is leading.
Q. The crowds are amazing, lot of support for you today?
LEE WESTWOOD: They have been brilliant.  It's been well supported.  I think 18,500 today.  Just impressive, phenomenal, the way the locals and the people from the area, all over the country, really, are supporting the event.  It's great to see.
It was nice to get out there and get my spikes on and play golf.  I've had a lot on, a lot of media stuff obviously and a few functions and presentations and things like that, which I don't mind doing.  I think that's all part of being the host.  But the end of the day, I would like to play well this week, and it was nice to get my spikes on and try to make a few birdies.
Q. Ian said a few years ago, he was nervous on the first tee, more nervous than he thought he would be because he was the host?
LEE WESTWOOD: I was ex-slighted and slightly relieved to see so many people and so many people having a good time, everyone enjoying the golf course and enjoying the tournament.
Q. Where does it go going forward?  Does it go around after this?
LEE WESTWOOD: I really don't know.
Q. Would you like to do it again?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I'd love to do it again.  I've enjoyed the whole thing and learning how a tournament works and what's involved.  I'd love to do it again.
Q. Or even get some of the younger guys in, Matt Fitzpatrick, Andy Sullivan, that sort of thing?
LEE WESTWOOD: Eventually.  I think you strive to be an ambassador for a tournament.  You have to build up a career and a record.  I think when you do that, you know, it finally comes around to you.
Q. Did they use a par 5 to park the cars?
LEE WESTWOOD: No, they had to rent a field from the local farmer.  He had to move his cattle.
Q. Did you have to pay for that?
LEE WESTWOOD: Thankfully I'm not in charge of that.
Q. You must have enjoyed -- did you keep on looking over?
LEE WESTWOOD: I got stuck in the traffic coming in here, so I knew there were a lot here.
Q. What a joy, you must have felt delighted to get stuck in traffic to a certain extent?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, you're never quite sure, are you.  You sell all the tickets but are they going to come.  They turned out in the thousands.  Yeah, 18, 450 through the gate or something like that today.
Q. Just to see you.
LEE WESTWOOD: Phenomenal.  Most of them are family.
Looks incredible out there.  There were some amazing sites.  Obviously I'm out here a lot and played the golf course but it was incredible to see it with a lot of people around.  Phenomenal how they turn it from a golf club into a tournament venue.
With the likes of Sergio and Rory and Alex and Tyrrell playing behind us and Ian and Martin Kaymer and people like that, and Graeme McDowell, people want to watch world-class golf.  We don't get much chance to do it in Britain.  Just pleased I could have been part of it and give them an opportunity to come watch.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT