ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2018
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We had a chat halfway around, 4-under, what's the verdict at the end of the day?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Hit a lot golf shots.  Drove it well.  Hit it close a lot.  Really please the with the way I played.   
 Q.  About the time you teed off, obviously scores were out there and they were low, and you knew the course was there for the taking.  What was your mind-set?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Just to go out and work on what I've been working on.  Been hitting the ball really well on the range.  Started to hit it well last week, started to hit it better, and it's progressing and swing is improving all the time.  Just try to take it from the range to the golf course today.   
 Q.  Is there a sense that there's a really big performance coming up?  You've played some big rounds but not contended to win?  
LEE WESTWOOD: There's a sense that things are getting back to where I wanted to be.  I'm hitting the ball on flights I haven't seen for a while but I'm hitting a lot of good putts on the greens.  You know, just trying to make a good action, really, and work on my technique and I know if I get that, keep doing that, then I'm going to see better things and see improvement.   
 Q.  What do you think of the way the golf course has been set up this week?  Greens are fairly receptive.  Do you like that?  
LEE WESTWOOD: They are receptive if you're in the fairway.  It rewards you if you hit in the fairway.  But it gets fiery and starts to ask you mental question if you start missing fairways.   
 Q.  The game continues to go in the right direction.  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I've been playing consistently well and hit the ball solidly and gave myself a lot of chances.  Everything was good.   
 Q.  Is there anything you're doing differently over these three weeks?  Obviously The Open coming up, links golf.  Have you changed anything, anything different in the bag this week?  
LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really.  I'm carrying a really strong 2-iron, which I wouldn't normally.  I normally go 3-wood, hybrid, 4-iron, but I've changed the hybrid for a 2-iron just because of the running conditions and the wind, but other than that, everything is the same.   
 Q.  You can get off to a fast start here?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I mean, if you hit it well around this golf course, it gives you chances pretty much all day.  So you know, you have to be in the fairway to attack the flags.  Once you start missing in the rough, it's pretty fiery and the weather conditions we have, you don't have much control over your golf ball.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT