WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 10, 2000
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. A task today, but not easy. 

LEE WESTWOOD: No, it's tricky out there. The wind's obviously stronger today, which
makes a big difference on this course. It seems to be going pretty well, so there's
obviously opportunities out there. 

Q. Would you have taken 72 at the start of the day?

LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I think you'll always take level par around here. I wasn't
particularly fortunate today. I had a few hard breaks out there, and it could quite easily
have been 68. So Valderrama's like that. It's a very fine line between sometimes being on
the edge of the green and sometimes being in the green-side bunker down the tree. That's
just how it is.

Q. You said yesterday you were going to the range to look for a miracle. Did you find
it?

LEE WESTWOOD: No. I'll have to try something different today.

Q. So gear up for another one now?

LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, yeah, probably. 

Q. You'd have noticed, no doubt, Colin Montgomerie having a pretty hot run?

LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, he must have played well. I saw, I think he holed the second shot
there on the 2nd, and a hole-in-one to the 12th. So that can happen with these
hole-in-ones. Maybe we'll get a drink out of him this time, for last week's. 

Q. I get the impression almost that other people are more excited about the race for
No. 1 than you are. Is that fair?

LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah. It doesn't particularly turn me on too much. If I won it, then I'd
be delighted. But if I don't win it ... (Inaudible.) It wasn't a priority at the start of
the year. I have not changed my priorities throughout the year.

Q. Do you think you could still win this, the tournament?

LEE WESTWOOD: It just depends. You know, Nick's obviously playing very well, as are a
lot of other players in the field. But then again, this course can really get up and by
you. Although Nick's at 10-under now, Mark Calcavecchia is 6-under coming down the last.
As my caddie just said to me, he said, "That could quite well be leading at the end
of the day." And, again, if Nick carries on the way he's playing, then 14-, 15-under
could be leading it in the day. So there's a long way to go, and a lot of things could
change. 

Q. Could you rattle through just birdies, bogeys, saves, please. 

LEE WESTWOOD: I hit driver wedge to about 15 here at the 2nd, 3-putted. I hit driver
3-wood on to the 4th to about 35 feet; 3-putted. 

Q. What length was that 3-wood for your second shot?

LEE WESTWOOD: 264. I hit driver wedge, pitched on the edge of the green, knocked into
the green-side trap, behind the tree on the 5th. Obviously, knackered that. Made a good
turn at the next. Hit a 7-iron to about 8 feet; made that. Putt pin-high, two on the 7th.
Played a poorish bunker shot, a great lie, 2-putted from that for 8 feet. Should have
really birdied that. Missed from 8 feet on 8. Driver 5-iron to 3 feet on 9; made that.
Driver, driver, then pitched to about 8 feet on 11. Then 4-iron right of the green on 12.
I didn't get up-and-down. Missed from 3 feet on 14. 3-putted 15 from about 20 feet.
Driver, 6-iron just off the back edge, just through the back edge at 17. Chipped back to
about 10 feet; made that. 

Q. What do you think you need to shoot over the weekend?

LEE WESTWOOD: I have no idea. I've not really thought about it. 

Q. How do you think the end of the season Tour is shaping up? It's very exciting, isn't
it, for us golf viewers?

LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, riveting. There's still everything to play for, but it would have
been nice to have been a few shots better off. Obviously, Monty's played well today, and
played his way back into it a little bit. You can't really count anybody out. Michael
Campbell's played okay.

Q. Do you feel you, yourself, personally, how do you feel about your game at the
moment?

LEE WESTWOOD: (Inaudible.) I think level par is about as good as it's going to be.

Q. Can I ask you about the comments about Tiger this week. What do you think about him?
He said he felt his image was being exploited in marketing rights. Do you have an opinion
about that?

LEE WESTWOOD: No, I don't. 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT