WGC ANDERSEN CONSULTING MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 23, 2000
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah. I played very well today. Well, I didn't make any mistakes. I
birdied the first two holes, parred around to 12. Birdied 12. I missed a great chance at
14 from about 3 feet, had a 3-iron in there. Good chance at 15 from about 8 feet. Good
chance at 16 from about 10 feet. And then I was conceded about a 5-footer straight up the
hill on 17 for a birdie. 

LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I sort of carried on from the end of last year. Obviously I didn't
do very well last week, but apart from that, I finished the 10th in the South African
Open. I'm learning all the time. I have learned a little bit this winter to take time off
and come back and play well. 

Q. How is your health?

LEE WESTWOOD: I'm all right at the moment, thanks. I'm feeling a little bit weak, a
little bit drained. But I think that's to be expected. But I certainly have -- I've not
got a temperature anymore, and the tonsils are feeling a lot better. I can swallow now.
Yeah, I'm pretty much okay.

Q. You're on medication?

LEE WESTWOOD: No, I finished it this morning. So that was good. I felt a little bit
dizzy this morning. Hopefully that will go now that the medication has gone through my
system.

Q. What was the main affect, apart from the tonsils, but were you tiring easily?

LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I had a temperature, aching all over, just the usual sort of
things.

Q. Did you play 18 yesterday?

LEE WESTWOOD: No, I just played 9 holes Monday and 9 holes Tuesday. I tried not to
overdo it and tire myself out. And once you walk around this course once, there's not that
much to learn. It's all there in front of you, pretty straightforward. And the way it's
playing this week, with it being so wet in the fairways and it's wider, the balls are
really not going anywhere. It's just a case of pitching it to yardage.

Q. What did you learn in taking time off?

LEE WESTWOOD: I knew somebody was going to ask me that. I learned I needed time off at
the end of the year. Previous to this year, the years have all been blending into each
other, because you finish so late and start so early. This time I put the clubs away for
five weeks and didn't hit a ball. And I came out fresh and keen to play, really. I think
that's been the problem at the start of most years. I've not actually felt like I've had a
break, so I've almost been going through the motions until April time, when I've actually
had three weeks off and just not hit balls.

Q. There was a year when you took some time off and came in and didn't play well?

LEE WESTWOOD: I've taken time off --.

Q. But you've actually struggled, having taken quite a lot of time off?

LEE WESTWOOD: It's not so much taking the time off, it's occupying yourself and not
thinking about golf in that time off. And that's what I've learned to do. I've got other
things to occupy my time.

Q. Even though you have to start over again tomorrow even again, is there any sense of
relief, anything since you're past the first round?

LEE WESTWOOD: I've gone further than last year, so that's a relief. No, whether you
lose second round or third round, it's fairly irrelevant, really. Unless you get to
Saturday, you're not going to feel like you've done well this week, I don't think. It's
just that kind of week.

Q. Does it feel like a big week?

LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really. It's not got a big tournament feel to it. The weather has
not been great today, so the crowds haven't been ought, and they certainly weren't with my
match. There were 10 or 15 people walking around, it doesn't have that big tournament feel
that others did, for some reason. I think it's because it's being spread out all over the
golf course.

Q. No sense of excitement, waking up at a World Championship?

LEE WESTWOOD: There's a sense of excitement waking up this morning, because I was bored
to tears laying around and doing nothing. It was nice to get out and play some competitive
golf and feeling all right. Because even the first round last week in LA I had a
temperature, and the tonsillitis, so it was more or less a survival thing, than trying to
build the score last week. So it felt like three weeks since I'd played competitive golf
today.

Q. Did you ever feel so bad you actually considered maybe not playing this week,
sometime over the weekend?

LEE WESTWOOD: No, I felt bad last week, that's why I withdrew.

Q. I mean for this week?

LEE WESTWOOD: No, the antibiotic was clearly helping, and it was never really a
question.

Q. Didn't recommend having the tonsils out?

LEE WESTWOOD: Numerous times. They're there for a reason, I just don't know what it is.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT