U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 1999
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LEE WESTWOOD: Well, my game is not as good as it has been, but it's been improving
recently,. I think the injury has contributed to the way I've played. And it was just a
matter of time before my shoulder improved and got back to the way it was. As for the
course, the greens are excellent. It's a good test. There's a lot of long holes out there.
It's a shot-maker's course. It demands a lot of different shaped drives and second shots
to the greens. I'm disappointed with the amount of rough. I think it's a bit too short, a
little bit too easy, once you've knocked it up, to get it up on the green. That's about
it. 

LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really.

Q. Lee, how many different types of ways did you go at the flags from around the green
yesterday? What different types of shots? Do you use the putter, or do you have a personal
preference, or pull out five or six different ones?

LEE WESTWOOD: I think it depends on the shot, but I'm using a 3-wood or 5-wood, to run
it up the banks. And I don't think the lob shot is out the window this week, because
there's such tight lies around the greens. And all the grass is growing against you, and
you're chipping into the greens. I don't think the bump-and-run shot -- because that digs
in as well. You want it to be on the floor as much as possible.

Q. How much have you practiced chipping with the 3-wood, 5-wood? Is that something new
to you?

LEE WESTWOOD: I haven't practiced it that much, but a lot more just recently. Hopefully
after a couple more days, should have it down quite well.

Q. In view of this course, then, being relatively easy --

LEE WESTWOOD: I never said it was relatively easy --

Q. Does this represent your best chance to win a major, because it's not as tough as
you thought?

LEE WESTWOOD: I used to think so, when there was five inches of rough off the edges of
the fairways.

LEE WESTWOOD: Yes, because it puts a premium on accuracy off the tee. But now, I don't
think it does. Especially if the rain that's due comes down the next few days, it will
make the greens very soft, and you don't need to be in the fairway off the tee.

LEE WESTWOOD: No. I'll be rooting for it to be as dry as possible, to make the greens
as dry as possible, because I think it will be a sterner test with harder greens.

Q. Lee, your view that the rough is too short, is that shared by others you've spoken
to?

LEE WESTWOOD: It seems to be the opinion of most players. You'll have to ask them. I
can only speak for myself, but I was in the rough a couple of times yesterday and I had no
problem getting 6-iron, 5-irons on a couple of lies. On the 8th, down the left, there was
very little rough; down the left there.

Q. Lee, backing up to that 3-wood and 5-wood you were talking about, in theory, when
you're hitting that shot, what's it supposed to do? How is it supposed to behave: Get it
in the air; give it topspin? 

LEE WESTWOOD: It just runs a bit quicker, as opposed to getting it in the air at all.
The first -- it's not really getting it in the air; it's just easier when it's tight to
just use a 3 or the putter with extra loft to help you out.

Q. Lee, can you go over your injury, which shoulder was it, and how did you work
through it and what percent are you at?

LEE WESTWOOD: It's fine now. But it was my right shoulder, and it was just a matter of
time. There was no treatment for it.

Q. Lee, after last week, have you had more confidence recently?

LEE WESTWOOD: I don't think I was lacking in confidence. You just have to wait for the
shoulder to heal. And that's why I put my poor form down over the last 7 weeks to that.
When I've been fit, the rest of the year I've won: 6th in The Masters, 6th in the TPC, and
there's no point in me not being confident.

Q. Could you give me your two toughest holes and why, and how you'll play them?

LEE WESTWOOD: 15, par-3, because the green's very small. And I suppose it depends on
which way the wind is blowing. 8 is quite a difficult hole. There's a few difficult holes
out there. I'm not saying it's an easy course, by any means. I think it's very tough. I
still can't see a really low score on it.

Q. When was the last time you used a 3-wood or a 5-wood for chipping?

LEE WESTWOOD: At the Masters. The greens there are very similar to Augusta.

Q. Every time you've done that?

LEE WESTWOOD: I've used that chip shot when there's not a lot of rough around the
greens, and you've got big slopes or steep slopes to go up, and it's straight down and
left; it's the best shot to employ.

Q. When you're coming into a place you've never played before, and you're trying to get
the lay of the land, do you buy a yardage book, or do you personally go out with the range
finder and laser thing and check? The yardages, how much do you do? How much does your
caddy do? Are you stepping it off? How do you do it so when you tee off, you know what's
around the corner?

LEE WESTWOOD: My caddy does all of that. I go out and get a general impression of the
course. And really, most courses are the same, and this one you just need to practice
those shots up and around the greens. Really it's not even a case of getting a feel for
the speed of the greens yet, because on Monday, they always seem to be a yard, a yard and
a half slower than they are on Thursday when they're cut right down and they've firmed up
a little bit.

Q. Do you think that because the way the area is around the green -- there's talk that
it's similar to European courses; that that gives European players more of an advantage
than they normally would have coming into an Open?

LEE WESTWOOD: No. Like I said ten minutes ago, we have nothing like this in Europe. I
don't know why somebody has the impression it's going to suit the European player. That's
just a proviso in case one of us wins. But very rarely do we have to play shots that you
have to play around here. I'm not saying we can't, but it's a shot we don't have to play.

Q. You mentioned Augusta. Do you think you're prepared for a course like this?

LEE WESTWOOD: I think it's similar to The Masters course, yeah. The real focus on this
course is on and around the greens. You can hit a good shot to ten feet, and if you had
missed it five feet further right or left, you can finish 20 or 30 yards away from the
flag. There's a lot of patience required, as there is at the Masters. And it's the same
shot once your ball goes away, as well. There will be a lot of putting from off the
greens. You need a lot of imagination on and around the greens, I think.

Q. Lee, are you saying that the way the course is set up gives the opportunity for more
people to win, or that it's less suited to your game, and perhaps you have less of a
chance or a bit of both?

LEE WESTWOOD: I think your first statement was right. I think it gives more people an
opportunity to win. You don't have to be quite as straight. The tee shots aren't as
demanding, and it brings into play the short game more, this course, I think.

LEE WESTWOOD: I'd like it like concrete.

Q. Can you just run through, Lee, how many times now you've been paired with Tiger in
the last year or so?

LEE WESTWOOD: No, I can't count; I don't have enough fingers. I've played him a lot;
seemed to have played him a lot, recently. Just recently, I played with him. I played with
him the last round of the Masters. I played with him in the Million Dollar. I played him
in the World Matchplay; three rounds in this last year. I played with him quite a lot
lately. He's probably getting sick of me.

Q. How much is a source of pride for the European players to come here and play well
and maybe even win? Do you guys get together and talk about how important it would be to
win a U.S. Open, because it has been such a long time between a European player winning?

LEE WESTWOOD: No. We don't get together and discuss whether one of us should win. Golf
is an individual game, and I think you do what you want. There's no sort of team talks,
apart from the Ryder Cup. But it would be nice to see a European win it.

Q. Is it a problem for people playing with Tiger, particularly in America, perhaps, in
the sense that the crowd is scurrying away to the next vantage point or next tee, when you
maybe have a 3-footer? Have you experienced that in the past?

LEE WESTWOOD: Occasionally it does happen, but it's just one of those things you have
to put up with. Nobody can do anything about it. It tends to happen less when there's a
big crowd, like here, because people tend to hold their position. And it's -- there's
normally about, if one or two people are around the green, when one or two people rush
around the back of the green, you tend to not see it much. I've never really had much of a
problem. My caddy says, "Quiet, please," if anything does bother me. But you
should have the concentration to get through that sort of thing.

Q. Lee, about Tiger mania, when you're over here, is there Westwood mania? Is there a
different reaction from the crowds over here compared to what you get in Europe?

LEE WESTWOOD: No. The crowds are fine always towards me. I've never had a problem with
anybody. They've always been very good and supportive. When I won in New Orleans, the
crowds were fantastic. I think they like winners over here, which is the way it should be,
I think. They're always trying to build people up, and never trying to knock them down.

Q. Lee, why is it that you think a European hasn't won since 1970? Just course
familiarity?

LEE WESTWOOD: I don't know. There's certainly more Americans in the field, for
starters. But I think a couple of people have been unlucky just recently. I think Faldo
was unlucky. Monte has been unlucky. That's it, really.

Q. What's your previous experience here at Pinehurst, or had you ever played here
before?

LEE WESTWOOD: No. This is the first time.

Q. What had you heard about the course, then, from other people?

LEE WESTWOOD: I knew it was going to suit the Europeans, which was fairly off the mark.
I think it suits them, but the best player will still win on the week, let me put it that
way. You have to be very accurate with your iron shots; not quite as accurate as I'd like
with a driver. You have to have a good imagination around the greens, and a good feel.

Q. Lee, since Tiger won The Masters, there's -- can you recall in this run together,
what has your success ratio has been?

LEE WESTWOOD: No, can you tell me?

Q. I'm going to have to work it out when if you can't tell me.

LEE WESTWOOD: No. I know I beat him in The Masters, because I played with him in the
last round, but that's about as far back as I remember, in the Majors, anyway.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT