ITALIAN OPEN
June 3, 2018
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Six birdies and an eagle today, brilliant final round.  What was the secret to the performance?  
LEE WESTWOOD: I've just been working hard and you know, played solidly today.  Drove it well.  I've been hitting it well all week and got off to a better start today, 3-under through 7, and just built on that, and rolled a couple of nice putts in on 13 and 14, and just very solid, really.  Didn't give myself too many problems out there.   
 Q.  Based on where you were at the start of the day, did you have a mind-set about posting for a number, or were you playing for a position today?  
LEE WESTWOOD: No, just hitting one shot at a time.  Just working on the stuff that I've been working on because I know if I get that better, I'll just gradually keep on improving.  It was good and a bit of a surprise for it to all come so good so quick.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts about what's out there, the challenge for those guys and if what you've done could be enough?  
LEE WESTWOOD: No, I don't think so.  I think it will be a few short but you never know.  Game of golf is a strange thing, so I'll go and have shower and get ready to go to the airport but not leave.   
 Q.  A case of saving the best till last today?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I played pretty solidly all week to be honest.  Played well the first round and just kept that going.  Today, obviously played a little bit better.  Made a couple of putts when I needed to, and you know, there are low scores out there on this golf course.   
 Q.  What are you most pleased about today?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Just had good focus and good concentration out there all day, really.   
 Q.  Nice to keep the bogeys off the card, as well?  
LEE WESTWOOD: It's nice to go bogey-free.  There are some tricky holes out there and there are places where you can drop shots.  You don't have to be far off.  There's a little bit of rough in certain spots and I managed to find it on 18 down the right-hand side, the worst lie I could have found in that area, but managed to chop it forward and played a decent chip to about 12-foot and rolled it in nicely.  Tommy gave me a bit of a read with his before me but I knew there was a good bit of swing on it and managed to roll it in.   
 Q.  Ryder Cup vice captain, but you must feel that if your form keeps going like this, you'll be able to make the team and what would it mean to you to be on another Ryder Cup Team?  
LEE WESTWOOD: No, I'm not really thinking about it to be honest.  I'm concentrating on being Ryder Cup vice captain.  I'm a long way from being on the team now, so if that happens, I'll have had a phenomenal summer and I'll deserve to be in there.  But I think the great thing about The European Tour and team right now is so many strong players vying for so little spots, I think it's shaping up well and hopefully they won't need me.   
 Q.  Joint top at the leaderboard, might it be enough, do you think?  
LEE WESTWOOD: No, I don't think so.  I think somebody will finish better than 17-under.  There's a couple par 5s on the back nine and there's a few birdie chances.  The lads are playing well and I don't think 17 is good enough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT