ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2017
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How pleased are you with that?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it's really good.  I generally don't start off-seasons too quickly, so I'm right in contention first tournament of the year and not played a lot of golf; I'm delighted.
Q. So no expectations coming into this week?
LEE WESTWOOD: Not really, no.  I have finished second here.  It was a long time ago, and recent history, I've not done that great.  I won't know the weekend flags for tomorrow because I haven't played many weekends here.  You know, it's nice to hit a few proper shots and make some nice putts and have a late tee-off tomorrow and a bit of a lie in.
Q. So if you didn't expect much.  What surprised you about how you played for the first two days?  What's the bit you're really pleased with?
LEE WESTWOOD: Distance control has been really good.  I've been swinging it fairly well.  I've hit my fair share of fairways, as well, and on the greens, I've been pretty good.  Everything has been pretty sharp, which is staggering, really.
Q. Your buddies went skiing over the break, and I saw you involved with snow.  Were you actually hitting balls on social media?
LEE WESTWOOD: No, I had a go at skiing.  I had a go a long, long time ago, 17 years ago, and thought I would give it another try.  I picked it up fairly quickly.  But you know, watching Poults and Bernd Weisberger and people like that go skiing, just fancied a go at it.
Q. Did I see you swinging a golf club in snow somewhere?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, that was the range at Crans.  Thought I would have a go off the ice.  I don't recommend it.
Q. A low key start to the week but looking for a big finish at the end of the week?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, hopefully.  Just keep playing like this.  I'm managing my game well.  I'm pretty focused.  Yeah, I'm looking forward to the weekend and getting into contention.
Q. Are you happy with the start?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, really pleased.  In the off-season, I like to have a good break and recharge the batteries.  I think that's important.  You get to sort of my age, I'm 44 in a few weeks, and you just can't keep bashing your body and wearing it down.  I played a couple of times but not really any meaningful practice until I got here, and right back into it.  I'm not really a fast starter of the season.  Normally takes me awhile to get going.  But straight into it this week.
Q. What expectations do you have for this year?
LEE WESTWOOD: I played well last year in patches.  Masters obviously played nicely.  Obviously continuously working on my swing, trying to fine tune it, so the last day it holds up under pressure.  I'm working on all aspects of the game, short game, mental side of it, putting.  You know what golf's like; it's just fine tuning all the time and tinkering around with it and trying to find what works.
Q. How much work did you do this off-season?
LEE WESTWOOD: Virtually none.  I played a couple of times with my son more than anything.  He wanted to go out and play, so I went and played with him.  But other than that, I played two rounds of golf I think in seven weeks.
Q. Maybe you discovered something new here.
LEE WESTWOOD: I'm fresh.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT