BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
September 29, 2017
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you assess that?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Solid again.  I obviously made a couple more putts than yesterday, hence 5-under, as opposed to four yesterday.  Played solidly.  I didn't really make too many mistakes.  Just hit exactly where I wanted to most of the day.   
 Q.  Your par on 17, how key was to keep the momentum going?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I hit my drive, a pretty good drive, but I missed it right or in the trap and that just leaves an almost impossible bunker shot there.  I hit it in the next bunker, got up-and-down and hit it eight feet by.  Would have been the play to go left like Sergio and just leave the pitch up the green.  That was the intended shot.   
 Q.  How were the greens?  Were they as bad as they seemed?  
LEE WESTWOOD: No, they were pretty good this morning.  I rolled the ball all right.  Made some nice putts.  Obviously they are a little bit slower than normal because they have got quite a lot of undulations on them, so you can't get them ridiculously fast.  And also with the amount rain that they have had on them, they are going to be a little bit slower.   
But no, I thought they was rolling good this morning.  Better than they were yesterday afternoon, and it's just the way greens are in this country.  I made my fair share, so no complaints.   
 Q.  Three shots off the lead currently, so you must be pleased with your position going into the weekend?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I'm in a good position.  Obviously would have liked to have picked up a couple more shots coming in there but didn't birdie the par 5 up the hill and missed a couple of other chances.  Yeah, 9-under is a good spot and I'll have a lie-in tomorrow morning.   
 Q.  What's more satisfying to you, just sort of seeing what is clearly being a very, very successful week that you've been right at heart of or the way that you've been playing, as well?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Well, both, really.  It was nice to stand on that first tee yesterday and see so many people here and see the course in great condition, and you know, everybody looking forward to having a good day and supporting the tournament and obviously playing well.  I haven't made a bogey yet this week.  Made nine birdies, as well.  Played solidly.  Hit it pretty much where I wanted to all two days and you know, I like my position going into the weekend.  I guess it's nice for the host to be in contention.   
 Q.  How important has local knowledge been for you so far?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Not so much tee-to-green but certainly on the greens, it's always handy to know the breaks.  Although, I'm still asking Billy's opinion.  But yeah, it's always an advantage to have played the course more than a few times.   
 Q.  How different is the course when it's set up for a European Tour event compared with when you're going tout for, I don't know, a Saturday morning fourball?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Well, they use different flags obviously to what they would with the members day-in, day-out.  And then your attitude changes towards the golf course and your game plan and your strategy, you obviously play it a lot more conservatively, whereas teeing it up Saturday afternoon with the lads, the driver comes out a lot more than it has the few days here.  I've just been hitting 3-wood and rescue off tees to try to find position, and just plot my way around from there.   
 Q.  A thought on your ambassadorial role this week.  As one of the stalwarts of The European Tour, to be in this position at an event, what does that actually mean to you?  
LEE WESTWOOD: It's an honor, obviously.  I think it shows that I've had a good career, and I'm respected by the players.  Obviously to get a great field like we did was a bit of a pat on the back, as well, and I think it's a good initiative.  I like it when an established player hosts a tournament.  I think it brings a bit more to that tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT