THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 14, 2021
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. What do you take away from this week?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   Obviously, when you're in contention, you'd like to win every tournament you're playing in, but I didn't quite have my game today.  I don't know what it was.  Maybe I just haven't played a lot of golf.  I hate to say it, age is catching up with me.  Yesterday I felt like my legs were just starting to get a bit tired and weak, and today I just didn't feel like I had my legs under me.  I was hitting shots I don't normally hit.  The ones right off 2, 4, and 11 were poor shots.  Couldn't quite find the strike.
 It's just something to work on, but it was one of those days for battling.  I felt like I battled all day.  I made some great par saves and holed some nice putts, and I guess a bit of justice for battling all day on 18, making 3 there.  It was unfortunate to three-putt 17, but you can three-putt it from over the hill.  Such a fast, slippery putt down that hill.  Just one of those things.
 Slightly disappointed that I didn't win, but you can't be too wanting after a second place finish in the PLAYERS Championship.  It's something positive to take into next week to the Honda Championship, the Honda Classic.
 I've got a fun couple of days coming up.  I'm going to play Augusta with my son Sam.  Tomorrow's going to be a good Monday.
 Q. Is that the first time you've played there with him?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   It's the first time he's played there.  He's been there with me years ago, but he's caddying for me this year in the Masters itself, so I figure I'm taking him to play 36 holes Monday and Tuesday.  Be a good lads-and-dads trip.  Looking forward to it.
 Q. When you think back to Sunday here, is there one moment where you think, gosh, I wish I could have that over?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   No, not really.  I felt like I put maximum effort in today.  I was pleased with the way I ground it out.  Like I said, I didn't really have the strike.  I didn't really have much direction.  I was on the edge all the time, it felt like.  I wasn't as good as I played the first three days, but you have days like that, where you just have to grind it out.
 It's a battle sometimes.  That's championship golf.  If you don't like it, you're in the wrong job.
 Q. What does it say about the way that you're playing that there was so much expectation at the beginning of the week and especially going into Sunday that you were going to get a win here, an expectation that you'd get the "W"?  What does it say as you look ahead to Augusta National?
 LEE WESTWOOD:   I don't know really.  It just shows that I'm playing really well, doesn't it?  And my game's still good enough to win out here.  Just keep working on it.  I wasn't happy with the pace in the putts today.  I left a few short and dribbling in at the hole a little bit.  The one on the last the first one I actually got rolling to the hole, and it went in.
 Something to work on.  As I say, looking forward to next week, and hopefully reach out and keep this run going.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT