DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 18, 2016
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How would you assess your second day's play?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I played nicely again.  Hit the ball pretty solid.  Gave myself a lot of chances.  Thought scoring was a bit tricky today for some reason.  Some of the flags were tucked.  Some were easy and you could go at them, but it's a good score.
Q. Looked like one of those days where you had to be patient but you got rewarded on the back nine.
LEE WESTWOOD: I was extremely patient.  I was hitting it close but not close enough; I was hitting it to 20 feet a lot, and those are tough to make on these greens.  I think 70 is a more than good score.
Q. When your playing partner is not having the best of days, does that affect your rhythm or anything?
LEE WESTWOOD: No, not really.  Just put the individual scores down on the hole, but don't know what it came to.  Focus on my game.
Q. But sometimes you do feed off somebody when you're playing well?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, that certainly happens.
Q. What was your thoughts on, I could imagine, on the last hole, just didn't go your way.
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, somebody clicked a camera on the right-hand side; put me off.  It happens.  Just have to regroup.  The pitch shot in was poor, but it was a good 2-putt.
Q. And you take it on the chin, because you're in a fine position.
LEE WESTWOOD: What else are you going to do.
Q. Well, you can smile and know that you're into that position into the weekend.  So what are your thoughts into two more days?
LEE WESTWOOD: Well, one off the lead and got a good chance.  Happy with the way I'm playing and trying to finish off the season strongly.
Q. Absolutely.  Are you trying all the more to finish strongly, knowing that you've not got an event next week, as well.
LEE WESTWOOD: No, I'd be trying to finish strongly in this event anyway, try to move as far up the Money List as I can.
Q. And your thoughts on the chances of a low score over the weekend; is there one out there?
LEE WESTWOOD: There's always a low score around this golf course.  That's the great thing about it; if you play well it gives you a chance to score low, and if you don't, anybody can shoot 75 or 76.  It's very fair in that regard.  Just got to hit a lot of fairways, hit it close as often as you can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT