BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2017
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How much can you get by on mental toughness, savvy and guile today?  
LEE WESTWOOD: A hundred per cent, really, on the day you want to go out and hit as many solid shots and fairways and greens and possible, and I had one green in regulation.  I ended up 23 putts and 95 percent scrambling.  When things aren't going your way you have to find another way of getting it around the golf course and I did.  Probably one of the best-putt together rounds I've had in quite some time.   
 Q.  Talk about the quality of your scrambling.  You got up-and-down from a lot of tough spots today.  
LEE WESTWOOD: I did.  Yeah, my short game's been really sharp, and it needed to be today.  I hit a lot of good chips out there, and didn't give myself too much hard work.  And then when I hit fairways and greens on the last four holes, I was 3-under for them.   
So it was nice to finish with level par, and the way I hit it tee-to-green, it never deserved to be anything like that.  But the older you get and the more experience you get, you learn to grind out days like this.  I knew it was going to be a tough-scoring day going out, and to be 3-over par coming down 15 was a pretty good effort the way I hit it, and I know that around this golf course, you can make a couple birdies if you hit a couple good shots.  It gives you chances.   
 Q.  What will it take to get win number 24 on The European Tour?  
LEE WESTWOOD: It will take better tee-to-green playing than today, just to keep focusing and the mental strength that I had today, really, I was pleased with myself the way I kept digging in there and grinding away.  Myself and Billy were just laughing at it.  After about 13 or 14 holes, I got up-and-down again and I got up-and-down on the 14th green and we were just laughing at each other because it was so ridiculous.  I hit one green.   
 Q.  You've played a lot of golf and that was a very strange round, went 16 holes without a birdie and three came along together.  
LEE WESTWOOD: I was very patient out there today.  I didn't play my best golf, and I didn't hit it very well tee-to-green.  But I hit a few fairways and greens on the last few holes, and the way I was putting, my short game, it gave me three birdies.  So it was great to finish like that and get back to level par.  I'm 5-under the tournament, feels like it's right in there.   
 Q.  How difficult does it course become when it's blowing like it is today?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, not only is it quite strong today, the strongest we've had it all week, but it gets in there in the trees and it picks up and it drops and it changes direction.  So that's quite hard to contend with.  When there's a wind like this blowing, this is not the widest-open golf course in the world, so it's tough to hit fairways.   
 Q.  In terms of being quite aggressive, is it nice to finish with a couple of par 5s here?  
LEE WESTWOOD: You know it always gifts you a chance over of the last few holes.  16 has gone back to being a birdie chance.  I like that they have taken the traps away the left-hand side.  It gives you some fairway to hit into.  The 16th green has been remodeled and it's much fairer.  It gives you a chance to get it nearer to the hole, and took advantage of that.   
The last two holes, 17 was playing downwind and so that was more of a birdie chance than it has been the last couple of days.   
18, I pitched a good shot in there and rolled a nice 8- or 9-footer.   
 Q.  You're only three shots behind the lead now going into Sunday.  Is this the kind of course where you can chase that kind of a lead down?  
LEE WESTWOOD: I just have to play this golf course patiently.  Try to hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens and pick up shots when you can.  There are birdie chances out there but they tend to come in spells.  The start is tough, first three holes, but 4 gives you a chance.  6, 7, 8, you feel like they gave you a chance and 12 is a reachable par 5, and then there's tough holes.  13, 14, 15, they play hard.  You've just got to be patient and choose your opportunities to be aggressive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT