BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 16, 2016
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You finish off with a 67, how many positives do you take from the last four days?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, lots.  I played well this week.  I've hit the ball really well tee-to-green.  On the greens, I've been very solid.  Short game's good.  I felt pretty comfortable all week and it was nice to play well.
Q. A couple of highlights, on 13, what were you thinking?
LEE WESTWOOD: You're just trying to make as many birdies as you can at that stage.  You're chasing a bit.  I made a birdie there.  Unfortunately didn't follow it up with a couple of birdies.  Had a good chance there but 14, really good chance, 15 is always a good chance.  I didn't birdie that.  But that might have put a pressure on a couple of holes if I had.
It was a solid performance today.  I had it the ball pretty well.  Just one of those weeks where I feel like I didn't make enough putts from 15 to 25 feet.  I had a lot of chances.
Q. Just to finish in this way, you've talked about how great the crowd has been.  To finish like this with thousands watching, you've been really enthused by the support you've had.
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, they have been fantastic all week.  Thousands have turned out, and it's October in England, and the weather is not always predictable, although the sun has come out now, obviously.
They give fantastic support and they are a pleasure to play in front of.
Q. You talked about the resilience, that the couple weeks prior had not been what you wanted.  You turned it around in spectacular fashion this week.  Clearly you're playing well but your attitude has really stood out.
LEE WESTWOOD: Attitude is always pretty good.  Obviously I think everybody was disappointed with The Ryder Cup and the Dunhill last week was a bit of a relapse from that, really.  I struggled to really get my head around playing again and getting back into the groove.
Last week sort of felt more like, let's get back on to the golf course and start hitting a few shots and this week, everything was back together again.  So I'm looking forward to the end of the season and to some big events coming up.  The next one is the World Golf Championships and obviously Turkish Airlines tournament and the Dubai World Championship.
And I'm really looking forward to the World Cup at the end of the year with Danny because I've never played in it before and it's on one of the best golf courses in the world, Kingston Heath, and to represent England, it will be nice down there and hopefully we'll both play well.
Q. What are your thoughts on a successful week by and large?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it has been a successful week.  Obviously The Ryder Cup was disappointing for many reasons, for everybody, really.  And then last week I struggled to sort of get back into it and get my tournament head on.  This week, everything has been back together and played well.  Everything was good.  Nice performance.  Probably going to finish top three, so pleased with that.
Q. What made the difference this week?
LEE WESTWOOD: Just my attitude really.  Back to focusing properly and scoring all right.
Q. I take it the focus was there on the final day when you're in the thick of it?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, today's the day you have to focus even harder, really, otherwise you can get distracted.  It was pinpoint today.  Got off to a good start, birdied the first and went off from there.
Q. Did you fancy your chance from the get-go?
LEE WESTWOOD: I think Alex is playing very well at the moment and is a pretty good frontrunner, so it was always going to be difficult to catch him, especially on a day scoring was going to be difficult.  I wasn't expecting him to shoot sort of over par.  I would have had to shoot a 64 or 63, but I had my chances.
It was always on, and in the back of your mind, you're always hoping and wishing that it's on, but I'm pleased with the 67.  I played pretty solid today.
Q. Aside from personally, take it it's been a good, successful event, hasn't it?
LEE WESTWOOD: Been a great event.  I think everybody's enjoyed it.  It's a fantastic venue.  Love to use this venue year-in, year-out for some sort of tournament.  It's in fantastic condition.  The greens are as good as I've putted on in Britain in October for many a year.
Q. What's next for you, lots of big events coming up?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, got quite a few big events coming up.  World Golf Championships in China the next one, HSBC and another big tournament in Turkey, Turkish Airlines, and I'm having a week off.
And then I'm playing the Dubai World Championship and then my final one of the year is the week after that, the World Cup with Danny Willett.  That's the first time I've represented England in the World Cup and I'm really looking forward to that.  Excited about it, good golf course, Kingston Heath from what I've heard about it and it should be a great week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT