BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2017
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LEE WESTWOOD: Don't really know what to make of the scoring with the resign.  The greens, there's really not any excuse or issues on these greens.  They are really good surfaces.  But I guess nobody is used to the breaks that's on them, when you re-lay greens.   
I expected the scoring to be a bit lower, but they are firm, as well.  So it's tough to get it near the pin I guess.  If you start missing the greens in the wrong spots, it becomes tricky and if you start to hit it in the rough, I guess it's going to be a difficult golf course.  I think 70 is a pretty good start.   
 Q.  Tomorrow, numbers should drop again with weather like this, shouldn't it, people getting used to it?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Don't know.  The golf course might firm out.  It was pretty firm today.  If you hit in the rough, even the semi-rough, it's hard to stop the ball on the greens -- you don't usually have to stop the ball on the green from the fairway.  So I haven't really got any answers for you.   
 Q.  Do you feel as though you're playing a new golf course?  
LEE WESTWOOD: A little bit, yeah.  Certainly a new golf course compared to the one we've played for the last seven or eight years, and a better one than that.  Fairer.   
 Q.  What's the biggest sort of change?  Is it the depth of the bunkers are sort of leveled out?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, the greens are a much better surface.  There's no guessing on them.  And they have taken a few bunkers out in places, which was sensible.  It had got too bunkered.   
 Q.  Left of 16 being one?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I mean, 16 plays like it should do now, really, I think.  There's lots of places out there where there's a huge improvement.  There's no changes out there that I would think are for the worst.  Everything is for the better.   
 Q.  It's your 24th consecutive appearance in this event.  24th time lucky?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Is that the old saying?  Who knows.  I'm playing well.  I would like to think I'll be in contention at the end of the week.  We'll just see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT