BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 13, 2016
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Nice tidy start?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, played really well today.  Billy was saying it's the best he's seen me play in quite some time.  The driving's not been great but drove it really well today, didn't miss a my fairway and hit a lot of good iron shots, as well and gave myself a lot of chances for birdie.
Q. Is that attitude, the fact that you're playing the British Masters, as well as execution?
LEE WESTWOOD: I think the attitude was good today and I've been working a couple of things on my swing, trying to get a swing thought, looking back at old videos when I played well and got in good positions and what I was doing then and I managed to implement that today.
Q. Which videos, 2007 and the victory?
LEE WESTWOOD: No, I don't think I've got much video of that.  But I did play well that week obviously because I won.  That's what golfers do, they try to remember what they did when they played well, and if they have got any video on it, see little things and try to remember what you were working on sometimes can help.
Q. Do you laugh at yourself, giggle, as well, at some of the outfits and things and things that have changed down the years?  You've always been a stylish dresser.
LEE WESTWOOD: No, I've always been a style icon you know that.
Q. Is it nice when you get a run of birdies early on and get in the mix straightaway?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, this golf course can give you a few chances early on but there's a couple of tough holes, as well.  The second, the third and I think the fourth, with the par 3 over water, 13, but I managed to hit a great 6-iron to gimmie range.  I controlled the ball well but I had a chance because I hit a lot of fairways.  My iron shots were pretty adjacent most of the day.
Q. Made easier or made harder with the cold, the rain that's coming?  The wind is picking up now.
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, early on, it's scorable because it's less wind but it's cold because you've got to like adapt and judge how far the irons are going to go.  You can see on the range, the ball is not flying that far because it's heavy and wet and chilly in the morning.  You have to allow for that and as the day goes on, the ball starts to go further and you just sort of think back to that.
Q. Do you support the idea of free tickets?  You look around, there's thousands.
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, fabulous.  Really well supported.  It's great to see people turnout.  The British public are great at supporting events and this one is no different.  It's nice that they are giving the free tickets this week.  Everything they are doing this week is great.  It's furthering golf hopefully to get people involved.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT