U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2016
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was like you were riding the roller coaster of Blackpool today.  You had a birdie run.  You had a run of bogeys and finished off with a wonderful birdie at 18.
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I didn't hit the ball very well.  I struggled on the range this morning to find my swing and really couldn't find it all day today on the golf course until the last hole.  I feel like I got a little feeling there.  Maybe I'll find it for the third round.
Just delighted the way I played.  It was a professional round of 72.  The mistakes I made weren't killers, weren't disastrous.  They were only bogeys, and then I finished strongly with two birdies on the last three holes.
Q. I really like the way you put that, a professional round of golf.  Your experience played a huge role in maintaining your composure, staying in competition.  You could still win this.
LEE WESTWOOD: I didn't panic out there.  Just kept trying to grind it out.  Missed it in the right spots if I did miss it.  Just picked up the odd shot if I could.  That's about all you can really say about that round.
Q. Got enough in your legs for this afternoon?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah.
Q. Brilliant finish to what looked like a real grind on the round?
LEE WESTWOOD: It started off well even though I felt like I was struggling a bit with my swing.  And then put a run of bogeys together.  Bogeys aren't always disastrous in a U.S. Open.  Didn't play myself out of it.  Then finished off strongly with two birdies on the last three holes.
Q. How do you feel you're swinging the club today?
LEE WESTWOOD: Like I just said, struggling to find my swing on the range and on the golf course, so it was a professional 72 that I just had to grind out.
Q. A professional 72, and you're one of only ten players in the red numbers under par going into what is now really the weekend.  That must be very pleasing.
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah.  The way I played today, I could have blown myself out of the championship.  So it was good to grind it out, be under par, be in the red, and have a chance at the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT