BRITISH MASTERS SUPPORTED BY SKY SPORTS
October 14, 2016
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nice finish, birdieing 18.  How would you compare today to yesterday?  
LEE WESTWOOD: I played well again.  I just made one less birdie.  There's the difference.  Gave myself a lot of chances.  Hit a poor drive on 15.  Got away with it.  Made 5 in the end.   
 Q.  It was a great break that you needed in somebody's back garden?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, 3-putted the par 3, so I made bogey there.  Didn't even hit a good shot, a reasonably good shot going up -- bogeyed that one.  But played pretty good the rest of the day.  I hit it pretty close.   
 Q.  You mentioned yesterday, you drove the ball really well yesterday, didn't miss a fairway, brilliant performance.  If we just put this -- really like this technical analysis, you talked about a couple of the swing thoughts, so if I play this through in slow-mo, what are the swing thoughts in your mind at the minute?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Trying to set this right arm a little bit better.  Sit it down so the club doesn't get too far -- the arm doesn't get too far outside the body.  So my left arm, if the shoulder plane is there, my left arm is a bit higher than the shoulder plane, so then I can get the club coming out and in front of me more, so I can get it a bit square.   
The club is coming out in front of me there and I'm able to square it up better.  It starts left.  I think that's the second or third hole, I was trying to hit a hard cut, so that's why it started down the left-hand side.   
I'm swinging the club really well as the scoring suggests and as many birdie chances, and as the driving stats from yesterday suggest, as well.  I missed two today.  Hitting the ball quite a long way, as well.   
 Q.  You know what this tournament means, you're a former winner, you like this golf course, future host.  What's the excitement level now heading into the weekend because you're in a wonderful position with big crowds?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, the crowds are great.  You get a lot of cheers out there and there's a lot of people there, as well, for a Friday.  Some of the kids aren't going to school but we'll keep that quiet.   
The tournament's great.  It's very well supported and SKY and The European Tour have done a real professional job, and long may it continue.   
 Q.  What do you make of that round today?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Pretty good again.  Played nicely.  Gave myself a lot of birdie chances.  Hit a lot of fairways again.  So I'm happy with the way I played.   
 Q.  Only time will tell but how important was the birdie at the last?  
LEE WESTWOOD: It was a really good chip.  Thought I hit a good drive but a fraction too far left, and it was.  If it got -- probably could have got 20, 30 yards more out of it but just got snacked up in the left hand rough and I couldn't get a 3-wood on it.  I hit rescue, which came up 30 yards short.   
It was nice to birdie the last and get an extra half hour in bed in the morning.   
 Q.  A little bit closer to the leaders, in what I presume was slightly trickier afternoon conditions?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Well, the wind gets up a little bit but I think we had it easier than yesterday afternoon.  I think yesterday afternoon the wind got up more.  From the scoring, most of the leaders are on the other side of the draw but I thought we had the best side of the draw to be honest.  The greens held up well in the afternoon, so they are very firm, a good surface and scoring is still very gettable in the afternoon.   
 Q.  How was it playing with the defending champion and last week's winner, three Brits at the British Masters?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, can't talk with them too much, it's like playing with my kids.  Matt and I don't share too much in common with regards to, well, he's 22 and I'm 43.  Can't talk to him about music or football or anything like that (laughing).   
 Q.  And Tyrrell's 25th birthday today?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, both very good players in the future of British and English golf.  It's nice to play with them and watch the freshness and freedom they play with.   
I've played with Matt a lot but the thing I like about Matt is he's his own man and he makes his own decisions, which is important when you're a golfer, because it's selfish and you need to believe in the decisions you make going forward.   
 Q.  Do you get fired up playing with some of the youngsters?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I always get fired up when I knock it past them a couple of times.  No, to be honest, I don't really concentrate too much on what they are doing.  I'm too focused on what I'm doing out there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT