MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2016
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Well played. Solid round in these conditions. 
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, very good. It's tough out there. Very tricky. No real sort of gimmie holes. Flags were ‑‑ considering that there was going to be wind, they weren't by any means easy. So I'm delighted under par for the most part. 

Q. Which was the most challenging hole in the wind as the wind picked up?
LEE WESTWOOD: I think 12 was hard. It's always hard, but when the wind's swirling around and strong, that becomes a bit a beast. 
11 is difficult just because it's playing long.

Q. Were you glad to get No. 1 one over with before the wind picked up? It seems that it's becoming more difficult. 
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, it was a little bit chilly this morning, so the first was still playing long. I hit driver and a 5‑iron in there and that's as long as I've seen the first play in quite some time. I hit two good shots and missed the birdie putt. 
But I drove the ball well, I putted well, and when I needed to get up‑and‑down, I did. 

Q. How much do you use past knowledge on this course?
LEE WESTWOOD: I think it helps even more when the conditions are testy and you can start pitching it in the wrong place regularly and just not be able to keep the round going, keep any momentum going. So it's important to have course knowledge when it's as tough as it is today. 

Q. (Indiscernible)
LEE WESTWOOD: No, just need to start playing well again and working on the swing and working on everything, really. I had six weeks off before the Match Play and didn't do much work on my game as well. I have three weeks to hit balls now and it's starting to feel a few good feelings in it. 

Q. (Indiscernible.)
LEE WESTWOOD: We're trying hard. 

Q. (Indiscernible.)
LEE WESTWOOD: Good round, but with the wind up I think it's playing more difficult. 

Q. How did you name her Augusta Kate?
LEE WESTWOOD: It's a long story. 

Q. Does it have anything to do with Augusta National?
LEE WESTWOOD: Yes. 

Q. Okay. What do you anticipate tomorrow's going to be like?
LEE WESTWOOD: Well, today was a good day out there, I enjoyed playing with Tom. He's a legend, isn't he, in the game. He's won loads of Majors and he's still got a lot of game. He shot 2‑over, didn't he, and he was hitting woods in on holes like 18 and 8 and 9. So it was an excellent round of golf. 

Q. You had to fight to get into this field, what kind of mindset do you have going into a tournament based on that?
LEE WESTWOOD: Same as I would if I was world No. 1.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT