U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2016
Lee Westwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You described your round as a very professional round of golf.  What's your assessment after the 69 today?  
LEE WESTWOOD: It's a good round of golf.  There's not that many rounds under par on this golf course.  To be under par going into the final round, it's a good position to be in.  I have a chance to win.   
 Q.  How challenging has it been adapting to the changing conditions of the course?  Are you expecting it to be at its hardest this afternoon?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Well, I just think the golf course will get harder as the week goes on, which it will do.  It was obviously softer after all the rain the first couple of days, but not having plenty of water on it, it's just going to firm up.  The greens will get faster, and the pins will be tough this afternoon no doubt because they generally like around par winning.   
So we'll have to see what they throw up.   
 Q.  Is patience the key thing this afternoon?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, patience is always a key thing in any major championship.  It's an extreme test, and it's an extreme mental test.  U.S. Open is the toughest one of that.  You can't let things frustrate you too easily.   
 Q.  Just finally, how important will the role Billy plays this afternoon -- are you taking a lot of advice from him on course management and strategy this week?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, he always plays an important role.  He's the closest thing I've got to a team out there.  He's obviously on my side.  It's always good to have an experienced second opinion on some of these shots and some of these putts.   
 Q.  Lee, you wrapped up your third round now.  What are you going to do before your final round?  
LEE WESTWOOD: I believe go and try to sleep for a couple of hours.  Get some life back into these legs.   
Yesterday was a long day, 33 holes.  I think Billy and I both felt it mentally (inaudible).   
 Q.  Considering you'll be chasing the lead today, is par being aggressive here on this golf course?  
LEE WESTWOOD: No, I think the great thing about this golf course is it gives you the opportunities to be aggressive, and then you have to obviously back off in certain areas (inaudible).  You've really got to (inaudible).   
 Q.  How much does the experience of being in these situations before help you?  
LEE WESTWOOD: Yeah, I mean, I've been in contention a lot in major championships.  So it's helped me a lot, I would say.  It's just nice to be in contention in a major championship again, where everyone wants to be.  It's a fantastic atmosphere.   
 Q.  Finally, has your game plan since you arrived here Wednesday changed at all?  
LEE WESTWOOD: It changed a bit with the rain.  The very first day, the golf course played a lot differently than it did Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.  Sit down this afternoon with Billy, and we'll have pretty much the same game plan as we had the first three days, (inaudible) and don't miss too many spots or any spots at all (inaudible).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT