SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEDIA DAYS
July 15, 2015
Bret Bielema
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  KEVIN TRAINOR: We're now joined by Arkansas head coach Bret Bielema.COACH BIELEMA: Thank you.  I'd like to say thank you to the SEC and obviously my third journey here for the kickoff.  I'm very excited.  It's the time of year when we get the blood flowing, get everything going in the right direction.  We've got a couple days here with my staff.  We'll start up next Wednesday, and we'll bring our players on campus August 5th.  Then obviously have our opener in September, play three games before we have our first SEC game.  That will be in Dallas Cowboys Stadium against A&M.  We'll open up with them.  On the road at Tennessee and on the road with Alabama before we have a bye week and come back and play Auburn. We have a tremendous challenge up front, but one we're excited about.  Brought with me three players here today that I think the world of.  Some of you will probably ask the question if you look at details, I brought three offensive players, didn't bring any defensive players, and why I may or may not do that.  I'm a big believer in you earn everything in life. We go through the five edges of Arkansas daily in our program.  Our fifth edge is you earn everything.  I just believe this is an opportunity that's so rare and unique and so powerful that you reserve the right for your seniors. I've had a lot of juniors that enter the NFL draft that never get their chance, but that's just kind of the way I operate.  So I brought three seniors offensively.  Obviously, our quarterback Brandon Allen, who's persevered a lot.  He's already graduated, in grad school, and is in a position, I think, to have an outstanding year.  If not one of the best players, the best quarterback in the SEC hopefully at the end of the year and has given me every indication why that may happen. Keon Hatcher, a wide receiver, who played probably his best football the last half of our season a year ago.  He has two classes to finish this fall before he'll have that degree, but he'll walk out of here in December headed into January with a new life that will be very successful not only in football but whatever path he chooses. And then Jonathan Williams, a running back that has one of a pair of 1,000-yard rushers, one of only two in college football.  He is one class short of graduating that he will take care of this fall, and then be on a path for success. Those three guys were also never recruited by me.  They came to the University of Arkansas when they don't know who Bret Bielema was.  They bought into what we asked them to on a daily basis, have rewarded themselves as well as the players around them.  I think it's cool I brought a player from Texas, a player from Tulsa, Oklahoma, and a player from Fayetteville, Arkansas, because that's kind of what we're all about.  We're a small state that represents a lot of great things we have in the state and around us and the people we recruit there.  Those guys couldn't be better examples of what that is. Defensively, there are two seniors, two guys that were seniors by trade, but they've been a little bit on again/off again starters, so that's why I didn't bring them.  I am very excited about our defense.  I think they can be a very special group.  I've kind of been giving them the tag line, the Bad News Bears.  For those of you that have the vintage to remember that movie, they're a bunch of guys that nobody really had a strong game but played well together.  I think that's what our defense is.  We've got a bunch of no name guys that could be very successful together and excited to see them work. I think our biggest asset that we have going right now is we were a 3-19 and became a 7-6 team.  7-6 by no means is a landing point.  It's more of a launching point.  It shares the same record with the worst record I had at my previous institution.  After we went 7-6 on my last stop, we went on to win ten games every year, three straight championships, and had a lot of success. I see a lot of the same things coming for us here, but the bottom line is you've got to make them happen.  That's what we'll be able to start doing here in a couple of weeks. I do want to say welcome Greg Sankey as our new commissioner.  Obviously, this is his first reign over this whole event, but a guy I've gotten to know the last three years.  To hear him talk in his opening statements, especially when he kind of struck a soul with me when he talked about scholars, champions, and leaders.  I think that the role as a head football coach is a lot more than just winning games.  Sometimes that's all we're measured upon.  I understand it.  I get it.  I embrace it, I love it. But when you have kids go on to do some things in their life that no one else said they would do, when you see them have success 10 years, 15 years down the road, when you see them go past obstacles that lay in front of them that no one else thought they could achieve, it makes this job so much more rewarding.  To have a commish -- not that Mike didn't do that, I don't mean that in any way, I like the way that he set the tone for our conference on doing things the right way and the way that we'll do that to embrace scholars, to embrace champions, and into various leaders, I think will go a long way.  And it's a tremendous message for the entire world of college football to have.  Excited about that. In addition to that, I think the number one thing I love about these media days is a chance to get to know -- a know a lot of the Arkansas media.  You guys obviously know each other from being around different venues.  This is a way nationally to make a statement about what your program is and what you want it to be. The three kids we brought with us today represent a lot of great things, man.  So to see them here, to see them embrace it, if you get done interviewing them and you can't say those are three great kids, then we'll have a disagreement. To get here as a head coach, I wore a little bling on the shoes just to have a little fun.  I saw a coach walk in here yesterday with his Adidas on.  We're a Nike school.  First thing I said was, hell, let's start a little Nike-Adidas war.  That was why I did it.  I love Dan Mullen and everything he is, but we're a Nike school.  I didn't have that opportunity when I was at Wisconsin, we were an Adidas school.  What that means is you can recruit to Nike, you can recruit to a certain type of style and shoe and product that is second to none, and it's made a difference in recruiting. I thought this was a little way to have some fun with it and bring a little humor, but it's something I hold near and dear to my soul. Got a chance to mete Phil Mackey in the off-season.  An incredible man that built an company from nothing that stands for everything that's right, and I think it's cool to be a part of that.  A lot of different platforms.  It's fun to be here and talk about Arkansas. With that, I'll open it up for some really easy questions.Q. Two questions.  One, what was your reaction when you first saw that schedule?  And secondly, there's a lot of new defensive coordinators.  I think there's eight defensive coordinators in the league.  The challenge that that presents.COACH BIELEMA: First, the schedule coming in the SEC is going to be what it is.  The SEC West, what it has and what it will be in the future is never going to really change that much.  It's probably become tougher since our arrival, I think because of us and because of some other schools, the rise that they've had. But the schedule is kind of what it is.  I always tell our players don't take issue or complain about something you can't control.  Our schedule is what it is.  It's made by some computer somewhere.  I'd like to know where it's at because I'd like to see if it really exists.  But it's kind of made randomly and drawn up that way. The A&M game, I say it's an away game, but really that's our home game.  It's just at Cowboy Stadium, that's a choice that we made, which it's one that I love because we get to go to Dallas every year and play in front of a bunch of great fans and spread the Arkansas love in Texas. But I do know we're the only school in the league that has two different segments during the course of the year where you have two back-to-back road games.  And that's an advantage that we've got to take advantage of. I do know this, this is an amazing stat.  I've been preaching to our guys the importance of winning on the road.  We had two games last year we won, but we still haven't won a road game.  The last five years -- I love to say that the biggest indicator that something will happen in the future is because of what's happened in the past.  The last five SEC West champions are 18-2 on the road.  They have three of those teams went undefeated and two teams lost one game apiece.  So we have two of our three, but all three being on the road.  So if we lose more than one game on the road, history tells you you're not going to win in the SEC West.  That's something I've addressed to their players.  Will continue to address with them and make them understand that. The question about defensive coordinators, I was a defensive coordinator.  Offensive football is kind of cyclical.  I think you've got to find a philosophy that fits everything, and that's what I love about our defense. I made reference earlier how much respect I have for our defense.  Robb Smith and I grew up in the same ideologies and the same chemistry.  We're not a defense based on magic calls or tricks or stunts.  We're not a 40-call defense.  We'll go into a game plan with maybe five to ten calls max, and our kids know it.  It allows them to play with great pad level, great vision, great intensity, good tacklers, make plays on the ball, and we'll be efficient in the red zone and the goal line.Q. What kind of impact has Coach Enos made on Brandon Allen as a play maker and throwing the ball vertically and through the air?COACH BIELEMA: I think first and foremost, the thing that came out of our quarterbacks' mouths as I sat down and interviewed them as they had time to work with Dan, is they liked a guy that had played the position.  Dan was a champion quarterback that really made a name for himself at that position.  Then he became a great assistant coach, became a great coordinator, and became a head coach because he placed value on the quarterback position. And it's been apparent from day one they've grown every day.  I think B.A. was amazed how much he was able to affect his throwing game, just his accuracy of getting his feet settled, being able to do certain things before the ball snapped and after the snap.  And the effect it's kind of had on our second, third, and fourth string quarterbacks has been very contagious. Overall offensively, I think he's brought some things that we haven't really been able to expose in our offense that will fit very nicely.  We have some running back that's catch the ball well.  We've got some wide receivers that can do some things in the short passing game as well as the long vertical passing game.  So I'm excited to bring Dan in and let him kind of showcase what he'll do.Q. How's the preparation different for a game like Tennessee, a team that you're seeing for the first time?  How does that compare to maybe a team that you see every year?COACH BIELEMA: Well, the leads change a lot.  Take, for instance, in our division in the SEC West, even though we're going to play LSU, Ole Miss, Mississippi State, and Texas A&M again, the defensive coordinators have changed.  Even though you're playing the same team, there's a whole new thing that you've got to do all over again. So to play Tennessee, Butch has done a tremendous job, what we'll do is we'll obviously put in a lot of spring work on teams that were new.  So we're playing also two or three nonconference games that are new to our schedule.  So we kind of did the same type of prep there. But Tennessee is going to be a big game.  I like it.  I love -- Butch and I have known each other for a long time, and I knew he was going to get things rolling there.  They played my alma mater.  I'm a University of Iowa alum.  I was watching that game kind of with a general interest.  And then it will be unique.  But I'm not too worried about it because it's game five, and it's a long way from being where we need to be.Q. Coach, would you talk about the impact of your victory against LSU last year.  In retrospect, would you say you're still feeling that right now?COACH BIELEMA: LSU is a special one in my heart just because it was our first SEC victory.  I'd be a liar if I didn't say that won't mean a lot for me for the rest of my life.  I came to Arkansas and knew, obviously, very little about the histories and traditions, but one of the things I was able to do was indoctrinate some people on my staff and around me that kind of shared with me how important that game was, being at the end of the year, that the SEC had made a decision to change that so that LSU and us didn't play at the end of the year.  That frankly made some people mad that I'd listened to. To have that first game that wasn't played in that slot to go our way, to say the times may be achangin', I think, is nice.  I have a tremendous amount of respect for Les, but on the same account, he's a guy that's had a lot of success at LSU overall.  So if we're able to beat teams like that perennially, that will do us some good. The year before we lost one late in the fourth quarter the last one, and to see our jump our guys have made and it wasn't a surprise to us, I think speaks volumes of hopefully where we can be.Q. Coach, you had three great players on the defensive side of the football last year in Trey Flowers, Darius Philon, and Martell Spaight.  They're now in the National Football League. But you return Taiwan Johnson, the man in the middle, defensive tackle.  What about his impact in spring and going into the fall?COACH BIELEMA: Taiwan has been one of those guys from when we came weighing 230, 232 pounds, to now he's a 289-pound D-tackle that looks like he's supposed to look.  Plays extremely hard and an incredible competitor.  Now the biggest thing that's going to help Taiwan is the depth we have around him.  By far the biggest improvement on our roster is the depth at defensive line. I think Taiwan, Hodge, a guy by the name of Bijhon Jackson, a young freshman that came from Denver of all places that will have an impact on our defensive tackle immediately.  That's probably going to be the number one reason we have success.  It's not the play of guys individually.  It's the success of our depth overall.Q. Obviously, the SEC West is known for how stacked it is and was dominated by Alabama, Auburn, and LSU for several years.  The Mississippi teams kind of emerged last season, and you guys had some big wins and also some close losses.  With what you guys did last year, what you bring back, and that success, do you feel like your team is ready to be the next West team that takes that step?COACH BIELEMA: I understand the question, and I understand the thinking, and I understand the logic.  I kind of reference back to, as a head coach, we give this thing that we're going to get better every day, and you guys want to write it as, oh, it's such a coach speak.  Well, it's so true.  The only way that you can get to where you want to be is to improve on a daily basis, on a weekly basis. We're going to start off with A&M.  We're going to go to Tennessee.  We're going to go to Alabama.  We're going to play Auburn at home, and we're going to work through our schedule methodically and hopefully get better. I think the number one thing that our players have bought into is they realize what I'm saying is really going to get them where they want to be.  If they take an attitude I'm going to get better every day, I'm going to work to improve on a daily basis, they'll be rewarded. I go back all the time to history.  I remember my last year at Wisconsin, we lost to a Nebraska team early in the year by three points.  And at the end of the year in a championship game, I believe we beat them by over 50 points, and it was the same roster and the same people.  Just a different time of the year.  It showed me how much a team can improve in a season if they have the ability to be led that way. I know this.  At the end of the year last year, not a lot of people would have loved to play Arkansas, and that's just fine by me.  But bottom line, we're 7-6.  That's kind of like pop pop, fizz fizz.  It's not a real exciting thing.  It's just what it is.Q. I'm having trouble sorting out the SEC West, my predicted order of finish.  I'm wondering if you have tips that can help me with that.  Secondly, were there cartwheels in Fayetteville, as was mentioned here yesterday?COACH BIELEMA: First, if I can help your ballot in any way, I would put always as wherever you feel your heart should lead us, Tom.  By no means would I tell anybody in this room how to do their job. As far as cartwheels -- you know what, I will say this.  Kind of like when I took over the Wisconsin program, I remember some of the more mature coaches in our league being very, very good to me.  I remember Jim Tressel, Lloyd Carr, Joe Paterno, guys being awesome.  And from day one, Coach Spurrier has been awesome to my wife and I at every event we went to.  I think you guys tend to play things up that you want to make headlines. I will say this.  I'll respect my elders at all points.  I don't think that body is built, no matter how big the shoes, with rockets or not, I could do any cartwheels. I think our players -- I met with our players on Tuesday.  I always meet with our players the day before they come here, and I kind of expressed to them what I'm going to say in my opening statements as well as some things I'm going to correlate during the course of the year to have our branding get out there and have our messaging.  I just shared with them, I don't need to overstate to you guys I think it's ridiculous the amount of publicity and excitement that we're getting based off of 7-6.  I get it because we were 3-9, and before that we were 3-9.  This is a team that was supposed to be up for a National Championship.  So I understand the excitement.  Because of what they've done on the field and in the classroom, there's a lot of excitement and a lot of buzz. I don't want that to go away.  I mean, it's absolutely awesome.  But we're in the SEC West.  We're 7-6, team looking to improve.  So we'll just take every day for what it is and have fun with it.Q. The Missouri game last year, obviously, moved to Friday.  CBS chose to do that again this year.  Is that something you'd like to see continue, maybe make that a tradition the Friday after Thanksgiving?COACH BIELEMA: Absolutely, Todd.  Any time you can get a unique window.  There's certain teams in this world that you don't have to worry about exposure.  There's a couple of them in this league, and there's a couple of them in the Pac-10 and a couple in the Big Ten and a couple in the ACC, where you don't have to worry about the time slot you get because you're going to be given it.  You automatically, because you're a great team, are going to get the benefits of that in life.  That's great for the privileged, but I've never been a part of something like that. I really enjoy going to an arena that you need to work every day to get to where you want to be.  When that first came about, when Jeff called me two years ago and said, we're going to move that game, I said absolutely.  If LSU and us didn't want it together, I'd love to have it with someone else.  Hopefully, we can keep ending up -- I know Coach Pinkel would.  He's got an incredible program that's gone obviously to the championship game a couple of years in a row for a reason.  They're very, very well coached, they're very talented. Dave Steckel obviously moved on, one of my great friends.  I kind of found it was ironic, the last SEC game he was trying to beat me, and during the out of season I sent him three footballs and a helmet to help him raise money at his new place.  The coaching profession changes in a hurry. I hope we can stay in that spot.  I think it's enjoyable.  At some point when we're playing in Atlanta, it's going to give you an extra day of preparation over your opponent if you're able to beat the SEC West or the SEC East team, and I think that's definitely an advantage for you in the long run.Q. Just curious about the media guide.  You guys put your five offensive linemen on there.  Whose decision was that to do?  I know you love talking about the offensive line.  So just talk about building depth there also.COACH BIELEMA: Well, selfishly, it's because it's the only group that I feel good about taking a picture with.  That's why they got vaulted into one spot. I think the number one reason is I believe in a foundation.  I believe it's something that is not going to just be graduated or move in or move out overnight.  I think, when you have elite players at elite positions, it's hard to recruit guys behind them because you've got a quarterback that might start for three years or a tailback that starts for three years. You've got five offensive linemen every year that can become starters.  It's easy to build depth there, and it's easy to build a tradition, and it's easy to build value because running backs will tell you they love great linemen.  Quarterbacks will tell you they love great linemen.  Wide receivers will tell you they love great quarterbacks and great linemen. I think, if we can build offensive line depth there, like anybody else in our league, we can win a lot of games.  There's a reason I let Sebastian Tretola throw a pass.  I love touchdowns and everything else, but I knew it would create notoriety.  I knew I would get interviewed afterwards.  I knew I would say, be an offensive lineman, come to Arkansas and I'll make you famous.  Those things don't -- I'm not that start.  I have to be premeditated in my thinking. We were probably the only school in the country to do this maybe not only this year but ever.  I can show an offensive linemen when he comes in on an official visit and just went to LSU, Alabama, USC, Michigan and Ohio State, and there's a program cover sitting on my desk that I can tell that mom and dad why that happened, it goes a long way. They won't be on it again next year.  This group was an extremely handsome group that I thought deserved the headline.Q. Talking about the offensive line, obviously, that is where your priority is as a coach.  So when you're recruiting skill position guys in a college football land where it's all about speed and size, how do you convince them and what advantage do you say to them that they can give you if they decide to join the program?COACH BIELEMA: With all due respect, John, I think you have to recruit the player that fits your program.  So just in my recruiting history, I signed a young man named James White, who was out of a highly successful program in South Florida, St. Thomas Aquinas, he was the number two run running back in the program.  We didn't even offer the number one guy.  He came, he was the Big Ten Freshman Player of the Year, he was a third round draft pick to the Patriots and earned a Super Bowl as a rookie.  He wasn't a highly recruited kid.  He was recruited, but not highly.  But he fit our program. I'm not going to go after these guys -- I learned a long time ago.  Coach Fry used to say all the time, you recruit your own problems.  All he was saying to us as assistant coaches, if you want to recruit a young man who's going to cause to you have gray hairs or make you stay awake on Friday night or make you have an issue that you don't want to deal with, then you recruit him.  If you want to recruit somebody of high character and value, somebody you can trust to not only watch your house, but your children, someone you can count on to share carries of 1,000 yards each rather than trying to get 1,800 for one, now you're going to build something that matters. It's a bunch of we, not me, and I can't stress enough that, just because you're a great player in the United States of America doesn't mean Arkansas is going to recruit you.  We have a social media background screening that you've got to go through, and if you have a social media nickname or something on your Twitter account that makes me sick, I'm not going to recruit you.  I've turned down players based on their Twitter handles.  I've turned down players based on Twitter pictures.  It's just that's how I choose to run our program.  It's the things that Jeff Long and our fans hold me accountable to.  I'm never going to waiver in that.Q. How far ahead of your own timetable is this rebuild?  I mean, are you to the point where you hoped you would be after two years?COACH BIELEMA: I think coming into it, I knew I had a job on hand.  I would say the first six months you're kind of in discovery, where you're finding some things out that you really didn't know.  Only the people on the inside knew.  There's a certain amount of time and things that you've got to process and understand and go back and evaluate after you've gone through it once. So the first year, 3-9 aside, there's just a lot of things you need to find out.  I cannot tell you, if I was an AD out there right now, I would tell you the best thing you could do is to groom a coach in waiting.  When I was an assistant coach for Coach Alvarez at Wisconsin for two years, I learned the pitfalls and the rewards of what Wisconsin was.  I knew the great things about academics.  I knew the things that you need to be aware of.  I knew the things on campus.  I knew the things you needed to be aware of.  I knew the great things in our conference, and I knew the things you needed to be aware of.  I had a two-year learning curve before I was ever a head coach.  I obviously jumped into the first year 12-1, but as I saw things unfold, you knew how to fix them. There's a certain amount of truth, when you get into a new program, you've never known your roster.  You've never known the curriculum of your university, the administration, the fan base, the media base.  There's a learning curve there that's beyond football.  So we went 3-9, 7-6.  I don't plan on going backwards, only forwards. But on the same account, I'm not going to skip a step to get somewhere that I'm going to have to come back and fix.  I would much rather build it the right way the first time so once we're there maybe we can, like Coach Spurrier said, enjoy vacation four or five days before you all go home. It's one of those things where you get comfortable with your program and then you let it kind of run itself.Q. Coach, how has the cost of attendance offered by your school impacted recruiting in your program?COACH BIELEMA: Surprisingly, I have not had one -- I can honestly -- one of the great things I learned in life is you always tell the truth, you never have to remember what you said.  I have not had one recruiting conversation with a prospect, player or coach, about cost of attendance. Now, we're not the first in the SEC, but we're not the last.  So I don't know where that's going to wind up.  It's something I'm sure is going to be modified.  Everything that the NCAA does, it always sounds great up front and there's a few things they always come back and modify.  It seems there's probably some of those things out there. What I'm happy for is young men get to have a little money in their pocket to do some great things.  But I'm going to also share with this room, you give a young man 18, 19, 20, 21 with a little bit of pocket change, with a lot of money to make bad decisions, things can go sideways in a New York minute.  So you got a kid that's never had $1,000 in his pocket, and all of a sudden he's got $2,000, that's dangerous.  That leads to dumb decisions.  I think we have to monitor that as coaches and be aware of that. So as much as I love it, I flew in with J-Will and Keon.  J-Will is from Allen, Texas, and Keon is from Tulsa, Oklahoma.  I said, how many times do your parents come to the games?  Both of them said, when they started playing, their parents try to come to every game.  I said home game?  They said, Coach, home and away.  Well, I know how much that costs.  Now, kids start giving their money to their mom and dads who don't have that, that's awesome.  But sometimes these decisions we make maybe aren't the best thing in the long run. But I'm happy that our players are getting rewarded.  I'm happy that we didn't as coaches have to do it.  Coach Spurrier offered up $150,000 from each one of our contracts my first year, and I'm like, I'm sure you can sign that contract.  I've got to go ask my wife.  I can't sign that thing.  We hopefully have come about that in the right way and hopefully be paid all four.Q. Fourteen new coordinators in this league, pretty remarkable.  Last year you brought in Robb Smith and had stunning results.  You have a new offensive coordinator.  Can we expect to see the same kind of results from Dan Enos?COACH BIELEMA: I think obviously Robb kind of captured lightning in a bottle last year.  Take for instance our Auburn game.  We did some good things in the first half, but we wore down the second half and had mental breakdowns.  The games we lost were usually second half driven when we got a little tired, a little depth related, and we broke down mentally a little bit and physically. But at the end of the year, our kids understood you've got to be stronger in the fourth than you are in the first. Whatever lightning I captured in a bottle with Robb, my early indicators are that we can do that with Dan as well.  But to sit here and say we're going to win whatever -- I like the indicators.  I like the rapport he has with our players.  I love the way he simplified our offense.  I love the way he's brought in identity to what we have done in the past as well as some new things that he brought in.  So there's a lot of really good things going on.  He's just so humble. To be a head coach, I've always had that reservation, sometimes they don't want to -- he's one of our hardest workers.  He just truly -- and then for me as a head coach, to have another guy in the room that can say, hey, I've been there, I know this, to my assistant coaches.  I lost Randy a year ago, that was able to do that once in a while for us.  So to have that void filled is pretty cool.Q. You talked about the LSU win, but the game before that was Mississippi State with a couple of missed opportunities at the goal line late in the game.  How did that game affect the future of the rest of the season in 2014?COACH BIELEMA: That's a great question.  I think that I'm going to go that week and the week prior.  We played Alabama and Mississippi State, both heart breakers at the end.  Mississippi State was obviously ranked number one at the time, and we let it get away from us.  All the credit in the world to Dan, his staff, and his players to make that happen. I am a big believer in life in this fact.  Scars are a very beautiful thing.  I have scars on my knee from an ACL surgery.  I have scar on my ankle from ankle surgery. I have a scar on my left hand from hand surgery.  My mom has scars from 24 years of breast cancer survival.  My dad has scars from throat cancer and prostate cancer.  Scars remind you of difficult places in your life that you've championed. We've championed those moments.  We didn't win them, but they're not going to be a part of our history that's lost forever.  They'll be things we carry with us forever, and I'll remind our players how close we are. After those games, our players said, if we can do all this and lose by one or a score, why can't we do all this and win and reap the rewards of winning? That may have been -- everybody wants to point to Ole Miss and LSU, I think Mississippi State and Alabama may have been a defining moment of who we are and what we are.  I think that can probably help us more so in the future. With that, as a head coach, anything that I can ever do at Arkansas, I mean it.  Last thing I ever want to do is make a man's job or a woman's job harder than it is.  I think all the time, my dad raised us on a farm.  My brother works in an environment.  I went home during my break -- he's a welder.  One of the things that jumped out to me, when you're walking through his facility and he shows me his place of work, there's only one man that can do the job that he can do.  If he couldn't do it, they'd hire two or three guys to replace my brother. If I'm the head coach and walk across the street to get hit by a car, they're going to replace me tomorrow with one man. There's some people in this life, in this world, that the things you can do have an effect on so many different people on a daily basis, you have no idea the effect that it has.  So the effect you have by writing an article, creating with a pen, the ability to touch a life, reward it or maybe call it out, I hope you keep in mind these players are 18- to 22-year-old young men that make a choice to play college football, but it doesn't have to change the direction of their life.  If they screw up and make a bad decision, I understand that.  You can get after them as hard as anybody, but I'd always ask everybody give them the grace of God and a little blessing from your heart. Thank you very much.  Go Hawgs.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT