U.S. GIRLS' JUNIOR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Doey Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk a little bit about making it to the quarterfinals of the Girls' Junior.  
DOEY CHOI: I'm really excited.  I played quite solid today, which is nice.  Getting used to the conditions out there, so it was comfortable when I was playing today.  Yeah, I'm excited to come tomorrow and play.   
 Q.  Now, you got done yesterday, correct, your match?  
DOEY CHOI: Yeah.   
 Q.  So you really had a regular routine of two matches today, didn't really have to complete three like some of the players?  
DOEY CHOI: Yeah.   
 Q.  How much of a factor was that for you?  
DOEY CHOI: I think it's a huge advantage.  The girls that had to come earlier this morning, it must be so tiring for them, so I was really glad to finish my match yesterday and only have to do two today.  Yeah, it's great.   
 Q.  Now, I guess you birdied 15; was that kind of a key hole for you in the second match today?  
DOEY CHOI: Yeah, I did.  Yeah, I had a few birdies out there.  My putter was working today, so it felt good, and hopefully tomorrow a few more putts will drop.   
 Q.  Now, this is your first Girls' Junior, correct?  
DOEY CHOI: Yeah.   
 Q.  What made you decide to try it this year?  
DOEY CHOI: I was here in the U.S. for the summer anyways because back home it's winter, so I just thought, oh, I might as well try qualifying, and I made it.   
 Q.  Were you part of that camp, as well, camp of Houston?  
DOEY CHOI: Yeah, I was.   
 Q.  You've got a chance to be the second Aussie to win this behind Minjee, six years ago just up the road from here.  
DOEY CHOI: Yeah, it would be really cool.   
 Q.  How much of an inspiration has she been to you or to the rest of your contingent?  
DOEY CHOI: A lot.  I mean, she's succeeded so well, and I've known her for a while, so it's really good seeing her go so far, and hopefully I can follow in her footsteps one day.   
 Q.  Are you getting used to the golf course, these conditions?  I don't know if you play in that much fog and chilly temperatures back home.  
DOEY CHOI: Yeah, it's something different and something that I haven't played in before, but I'm really enjoying it, and I think that's why I'm playing pretty good, pretty much just soaking in every minute of it, which is nice.   
 Q.  Do you go home next week?  
DOEY CHOI: I'm going to Canada next week, and then I'll be going home after that.   
 Q.  Unless you get to the finals of this and then you'll get to play the Women's Am?  
DOEY CHOI: Yeah, that would be awesome.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT