GAINBRIDGE LPGA
February 26, 2021
Leona Maguire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. All right, Leona, here at your home course, being able to play the weekend, just your thoughts over the past two rounds?
 LEONA MAGUIRE:   Yeah, it's a fun place to start the year.  I think it was a little bit of a surprise for everybody, but a welcome one.  I mean, course is in fantastic shape and I think everybody is really enjoying to this week.
 Yeah, to get off to a nice start of the year is always good and first weekend of the year pretty stress-free, which is nice.
 Q. You joined this club you just said back in November.  What is it about Lake Nona that is bringing out a good part of your game, and is it any different playing a tournament compared to practicing day-to-day?
 LEONA MAGUIRE:   Yeah, I suppose the big thing for me is the weather.  It's a lot warmer here in January than it is back in Ireland.  So I went home for Christmas and then came back a few weeks ago.  The facilities are great here, so it's definitely an advantage to practice your game here.
 I was able to play some games with some of the other girl here as well to get ready, especially when we knew the event was going to be here.  There are a few of the tees that are maybe a little different than what we would normally play, kind of had to get used to that.
 Greens are probably running a little bit firmer and faster than they usually would be.  So it's a little different, but at the same time it's nice to have that of extra few practice rounds in than everybody else.
 Q. One of the big stories is of course Annika in the field.  I know you guys have a special relationship as well.  What's that like to be able to play against her, and now that you're a member here, have you played with her?
 LEONA MAGUIRE:   Yeah, it's really cool.  I think there has been a great buzz that she's back.  She was living on the 16 tee box.  It was a little bit of a no-brainer for her.
 Yeah, I was fortunate enough to play a few times with her leading up to the tournament and seeing her prepare and get ready again and how excited she was to play as well, which was great to see.
 Never thought I would have the opportunity to play in the same event as her.  Grew up obviously watching her, and her rookie year was the year I was born.  So, yeah, I mea, it's great to have her back.  Seemed like she played pretty well yesterday and be nice -- I don't know how she's playing today, but it would be nice to see her here for the weekend.
 Q. And then today re-announcing the Northern Ireland tournament with the LET, European Tour, and equal prize money between the ladies and men.  Just your thoughts.  I know Niall Horan is also a big contributor to that tournament as well, and just your thoughts on the announcement.
 LEONA MAGUIRE:   Yeah, it's fantastic, another event on home soil.  I suppose the equal prize money is big thing, similar to the Vic Open that we usually play at the start of the year, which is always one of my favorite events.  Home crowds, home sort of everything, which is nice.
 Yeah, it's good to be back there, and it's exciting that it's an LET and LPGA event.  I know Niall and all the team are really excited about it, and hopefully should be a great event in the summertime.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT