OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 17, 2016
Leona Maguire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LEONA MAGUIRE: I've not had too many expectations. Just trying to play as well as I can and see what happens. I would have liked to have played a bit better today. Just didn't hole enough putts. I had a lot of chances. I hit a lot of really good shots, exactly where I wanted to hit. I had a bad hole on 10, but apart from that, I played really solid all day. 

Q. Was it an enjoyable round? 
LEONA MAGUIRE: Yeah, it would have been a little bit more enjoyable if we hadn't been on the clock all day. So we were on the clock from the third hole. That wasn't ideal. 

Q. Got you out of focus?
LEONA MAGUIRE: Not really. It's easier when you're not on the clock. 
It was a good day. We enjoyed it out there. Hopefully go a bit better tomorrow.

Q. How did your caddie perform today?
LEONA MAGUIRE: She was good. She did everything she needed to do. She was under a lot of pressure especially to keep up when we were on the clock. 

Q. Whose idea was it to play golf? 
LEONA MAGUIRE: We started at the same time, as with most things we did. No, we started at the same time.

Q. And right now she said she could play you straight‑up. What do you think? 
LEONA MAGUIRE: Not really, no. 

Q. She said she's a better putter than you. 
LEONA MAGUIRE: She is a better putter, I'll give her that. I could have had her hit a few putts for me today. 

Q. It must be an interesting one for her. 
LEONA MAGUIRE: I've caddied for her before in different things. We've done it for each other before. Hopefully it wouldn't be that big and that heavy. 

Q. It's not a future for her, caddying for you, is it?
LEONA MAGUIRE: She wants to play out here herself, so hopefully she won't be caddying for me. 

Q. She said she wants to go to Tokyo; is that realistic? 
LEONA MAGUIRE: Absolutely.

Q. Do you feel any pressure to match the men's play last week?
LEONA MAGUIRE: No, I think for me, the best players in the world are here, that's their job. That's not my job this week. I'm just out there to have as much fun as I can and do as well as I can, and that's up to Lydia and Brooke and Ariya and those girls to show that they are the best players in the world. For me, it's just a bonus being here.

Q. Do you try to dress similarly?
LEONA MAGUIRE: This week we are in uniform, so we are going to be the same all week but in general we don't. 

Q. As the best amateur in the world, presumably you want to become Lydia Ko in a few years' time? 
LEONA MAGUIRE: Yeah, absolutely, I think you have to aim big. Sort of work my way up there and try and get up there the next few years and have a go at it. 

Q. You're well positioned. 
LEONA MAGUIRE: I have a few things to tidy up but I'm going to Q‑School later in the year, see how that goes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT