RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
July 30, 2016
Leona Maguire
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Give us your reaction to the 68; enjoy it?
LEONA MAGUIRE: Yeah, it was a great day out there today.  I enjoyed every minute of it.  Played some really nice golf out there.  Gave myself a lot of chances.
Q. Tell us how positive this situation is, because you've got the world No. 2, Bronte; yourself, world No. 3, and of course Maria Parra, No. 4 in the World Amateur Rankings all going for it this weekend.  We are seeing more and more amateurs right up at the top echelons of professional events.
LEONA MAGUIRE: Yeah, amateur golf is as strong now as it's ever been.  Bronte is obviously a good friend of mine in college in the States.  It's great to see all the amateurs doing so well this week.
We'll see how it goes tomorrow.  I'm going to try to make as many birdies as I can tomorrow, do what I did today and see what happens.
Q. Like you, with so many others going to Rio, you're one of the few amateurs in this Rio professional field, mostly.  Tell us about the prospects for that and what you're most looking forward to about that experience?
LEONA MAGUIRE: Yeah, I can't wait.  It's going to be a dream come true for me to go out there and represent Ireland on that stage.  I've watched the Olympics enough times.  Usually sit up in front of the TV watching it every four years, so it will be great to be a part of it this year.  We're staying in the village, get to soak up the whole atmosphere and cheer on the rest of the Irish athletes out there.
Q. What is it like competing out there against professionals in a major championship?
LEONA MAGUIRE: It's so much fun.  I've had a blast this week so far.  Really good day out there today.  I suppose it's just a bonus being here this kind of week being able to play against the best golfers in the world.  And to play alongside them is something that's special that I don't get to do often, but it gives me a taste of what I want to do.
Q. You're of course Irish but you've been playing a lot of golf over in America for university and your senior year coming up; a lot of conversation this week about it being an American-style golf course.  Do you feel pretty comfortable out there?
LEONA MAGUIRE: Yeah, it's a great golf course.  I mean, it's pretty tree-lined, so definitely hitting the ball straight off the tee is a premium.  It really rewards good golf.  You hit a lot of good irons and you have a lot of chances.  That's what I've been trying to do all week.
Q. Both you and your twin sister, Lisa, are fabulous golfers.  What kind of a caddie is she for you this week?
LEONA MAGUIRE: She's been great.  She's kept me calm.  She's kept me going all week.  She's been great on the bag.  She's doing everything that a top professional caddie does, so I couldn't ask any more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT