NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 4, 2006
Martin Brodeur
Ray Emery
Ryan Miller
Cam Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  Q.  Looking ahead to Ottawa, what is the most dangerous thing about Ottawa, or what is the biggest threat they offer for a goalie?   
 RYAN MILLER:  Well, they have a pretty balanced attack.  They obviously have a lot of guys who are known for their creativity.  I think as you get deeper into their forward lineup, they have guys that skate hard, get in the zone and try and work the puck around.  You have different elements from their forwards and their defense tends to get open for some good shots.  They have a lot of different ways to come at you, I think we do too.   
  Q.  You guys seem to be really enjoying this ride.  How do you look at this next series, Ottawa is obviously the top team in the East this season, but you're playing as good as anybody.   
 RYAN MILLER:  Yeah, we think we came on strong this year and we've been learning a lot.  This last series against Philadelphia was a lot of fun.  We were able to learn a lot about ourselves as a team and learn how to play in the playoffs.  I think moving forward, we're just going to enjoy it.    
 We're up against a really strong team in Ottawa, but we feel like we're capable of playing against anybody right now with our game plan and the way we play hockey.   
  Q.  Going back to Philadelphia, just talk about that Game 6 when you guys were just totally dominating, how much fun was that to be a part of, to shut them out like that?   
 RYAN MILLER:  It was fun for me to watch our boys gain confidence.  When they get rolling and when they get moving, it's a lot of fun to watch the creativity to come out and you can see that how it starts to change over the course of a game or a couple of games; when they move the puck around, they feel like they can get open and get shots.  Being the goaltender, being able to watch the plays unfold, it's a lot of fun.   
  Q.  Obviously you must have played against Ray Emery quite a bit in the American Hockey League.  As much as you guys probably don't look at it as a head-to-head against the other goalie, that's the way people are going to look at it, what do you know about Ray, and how do you distance yourself from this head-to-head thing between the goalies?   
 RYAN MILLER:  People try and make it about the goalies.  Just based on our position.  But, I mean, if I have any contact with Ray during the course of the series, I'll be very surprised.  It will probably be just a handshake.  I mean, the only thing we do is stare at each other from 200 feet away, really.   
 But goaltenders play a big part in the series and play a big part in hockey in general.  So I think that's why people tend to do it.  I don't think you can go into a series thinking, I'm matching up against Ray or I'm matching up against any other goalie.  That's not going be to be the way you have to go into a series.  I think you have to go in just play hockey.  It's Ottawa and Buffalo, and when it comes down to it, you're playing with a team.  And what the team does around you gets intertwined with your own team, so you can't worry about what somebody else is doing.   
  Q.  In speaking to Ray this morning, he just says he's enjoying this so much and says at times he just can't believe he's in the Stanley Cup Playoffs.  I wonder your opinions on that, a couple of young goalies that have enjoyed great success so far this season.   
 RYAN MILLER:  Yeah, for us it is pretty amazing.  It's something that, you know, obviously, you make it this far, you've been working on it a long time, and we basically came into the League, the NHL at the same time.  We've been working at our game trying to get it to a new level.  It's exciting for some of the young guys to have the opportunity.   
  Q.  As well as you played in the series against Philadelphia, I thought that your defensemen played very, very well in front of you in terms of blocking shooting lanes, blocking shots, can you talk a little bit about that aspect of the Buffalo defense?   
 RYAN MILLER:  Yeah, we've been great all season.  That's been a key to our success.  Both Marty Biron and myself, know that's just the way our forwards are going to commit to taking the point away.  And our defensemen can take away from other shot lanes and take away the risk shots.  And we can search for shooting options and passing options and know we don't have to play way out of the paint to make the saves.  We can play back and read.   
 Marty and I are working with our D and our D are working well with us.  It gives us a chance at the plays that you normally wouldn't get if you have to challenge every shot.   
  Q.  Jay McKee in one of those games I understand took a shot below the mouth that actually wound up cutting right through his lip.  When you see things like that happen and a guy leads the League blocking shots and takes that kind of pain, what kind of image do you take away from that?  What do you think of a guy like that?   
 RYAN MILLER:  Well, Jay is such a great defenseman, and his commitment to blocking shots just reflects his will to win.   
 I think the attitude on our team this year has been great.  He's one of the guys who has stepped up and provides that spark.  Guys really look towards that kind of play where you're going to sacrifice and you're going to do everything in your power to come out on the winning side.   
 I think some nights when we're going really good, Jay has actually stopped more shots than me.  (Laughing).  He's just doing a good job of getting into the shooting lane and letting me read everything around it.  We do talk obviously about certain situations and certain plays.  There's not too many times where he's like, yeah, I just got out of the way so you can see that one.  So it's fine, though, because I expect him to do it.  I can read off it and he's really good at it.  So anything that helps out with our team, he's willing to do it.   
  Q.  I know the town of Buffalo has come a long way, in the lockout obviously when the town was in financial strife; and you've had very little time between this victory and what's going to be your next game, have you had any feedback, and what do you think this means to the fans in Buffalo?   
 RYAN MILLER:  They are extremely excited.  I have had a chance to get out and been trying to get dinner with my family or just even Paul Gaustad and I were driving back from the airport from Philadelphia and we're stopped at a stop light.  And, it's a nice night, you've got the windows down and some college kids were walking to  have some fun at night.  They were letting us know how much they appreciated it, just "Go Buffalo."  People are really getting behind us.   
 It's exciting and we're having a lot of fun.  I think the fans recognize how much the guys in the locker room play for each other and go out to have fun and compete hard every night.  I think, really, that's what this town appreciates from everybody is that effort.  And now to get that success with it and have a playoff run kind of going, you know, people are getting excited, and we're having a lot of fun with the fans, as well.   
  
  Q.  First of all, talk about Buffalo is one of the top teams, top road teams during the regular season, so how important will it be for your club to maintain home ice advantage in this series?   
 RAY EMERY:  I mean it's always important to maintain that advantage and come out strong at home, especially in the first two games of the series where you want to make an impression and definitely don't want to let one slip at home because you realize their building is going to be a tough building to play in.   
 So, we take it one game at a time.  But definitely that first game, we're going in for the win and there's a lot of onus on that first game.   
  Q.  Through the season you had a first line of Dany Heatley and (Daniel) Alfredsson and (Jason) Spezza, in the playoffs they have broken up to have Alfredsson playing on other lines.  Tell me what's been lost and what's been gained by that move.   
 RAY EMERY:  I think a lot of times other teams have one main defensive line, maybe one line that they kind of dedicate to shutting the line down.  So if you have all of those guys on one line, sometimes the offense isn't as spread out as you would like, and that defensive line can get matched up against them and maybe have a good night against them.  And it takes those three guys, the scoring punch, if you split them up, those guys are still effective players.  We have guys that can fill in on their lines and do a good job complementing those guys, so I think that's why you see the offense spread out a bit.   
  Q.  One of the things I'm thinking about on your defense is how well Chris Phillips has played in the first rounds, a lot of focus goes on Chara and the great way that Redden plays, but Phillips has really looked terrific in this series.  And that goal he had, what a shot.    
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah, he had that snapper there, top shelf.  Yeah, we definitely realized maybe you take guys for granted and having Chris out for a game in the last round and missing him at the end of the year for a little while, you really see how much he contributes and just how important he is back there.  With the other guys out, too, you saw that with Redden and Zdeno out for a little while.  We're definitely a better team with them in there.   
  Q.  Can you talk a little about for years we've talked about how you wanted an experienced goaltender, but obviously this season, there's a lot of rookies and newcomers, guys without a lot of experience.  Was there a point in that first series when you felt this is sort of like the way that it was during the regular season; that you didn't feel the least bit nervous?   
 RAY EMERY:  Well, yeah, I think nerves are a good thing.  So I hope I continue to get nervous in there.   
 I mean, you've definitely got a bit more comfortable, but it's just the time of the year that it makes you see the games with that much more importance than maybe if some people kind of get nervous in that situation.  I kind of get a bit more energy and adrenaline going, I think.   
 So yeah, I've got a bit more comfortable but still get worked up and still realize how important the playoffs are.   
  Q.  Any theories on why we've got to the point where as in previous years, people would have made sure they had an experienced goalie, and it just seems like coaches and general managers seem less worrisome about that, and a lot of guys committed to newcomers early or were willing to enter the playoffs with a guy who didn't have experience.  Any theories on why all of a sudden general managers decided to go for young guys?   
 RAY EMERY:  As far as goalies go, there was a bit of a turnover with the lockout.  You're definitely seeing young guys get a chance to play in the playoffs a bit more.  It's more of a situation where some teams are going just with who is hot and trying one goalie out for a couple of games and having a backup that has been playing well, trying that guy out for a game and just playing whoever is going the best.   
 It's different.  It's a fickle spot.  You see it in Carolina, the guy plays all year, Gerber, and then two games in, they kind of flipped it up and Ward end up winning the series for them.  So it's just going with who's hot.   
  Q.  Do you think there is any major advantage to having experience when you go into the post-season?   
 RAY EMERY:  Yeah, definitely.  I think that if you've been there before, you're not going to get worked up, you're not going to get shaky as some guys do when they are nervous, and you know, being through different experiences is always a benefit.   
 On the flipside, I think young guys get that adrenaline going so much and that's why you see some of those performances from young guys just because -- just excited with the whole situation and so much adrenaline and so much going that you don't realize how important it is.  You're just kind of happy to be there and playing.  I think there's advantages to both experience and being kind of a fresh face.   
  Q.  There's a lot of pressure on you guys up in Ottawa, but was there a sense of relief when you took care of step one and wrapping things up in five games?   
 RAY EMERY:  We definitely are pleased and proud of the fact that we beat Tampa, and we had a lot of respect for Tampa because of the team they had and what they had done two years ago.  I guess it took some of the pressure off.   
 Still, I think our fans and even us, we expect to, if not win, come pretty close to winning here.  That's all we want.   
 So I don't think your year is any more of a success if you lose in the second round or you're supposed to lose in the first round or whatever.  We're not out of the clear or in the clear, so to speak yet.  It's one step, one step behind us.  And we kind of know how we're all going to react under those pressure situations now, too, I think, because of going through that experience and kind of getting the butterflies out that I think we had at the start of the first round.   
  
  Q.  We used to always talk about experience being absolutely crucial for goaltenders to go into playoffs, but you look around in your Eastern Conference, we have lots of rookies and you.  Why are coaches and general managers a little more willing to give up the younger guy or give the inexperienced guy a shot?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  Well, I mean, I think it's part of the new NHL a little bit.  I think it's two years' worth of guys getting older and younger guys getting some experience and playing in, I don't know, a different situation all year.  You see there's two playoff series that Anaheim went with two goalies; Carolina went with two goalies.  It's pretty rare; you never see that usually.   
 I think times are changing a little bit.  Especially in the first couple of rounds, I think experience is maybe overplayed a little bit.  I think you'll see the experience starting now and going forward in the playoffs.  I think the tougher it gets, I think the experience, it's something that gets a little more important.   
 I think this is the way it was this year with the teams.  Everybody had young goalies, not especially young, but goalies with not much NHL experience.   
  Q.  And to follow up, I have to ask you about the Devils hot streak, obviously getting Patrik (Elias) back certainly helped and (Brian) Gionta and (Scott) Gomez had great seasons, and you got hot certainly at the end, as well.  How do you explain just the team coming together and how much of a role did (Coach) Lou Lamoriello play in that?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  I think he played a major role.  He definitely put this team together.  He believed in it.  Definitely had to make a few tweaks during the middle of the season with sending guys in the minors and a couple guys retired, or I don't know what happened there.  There was a lot of stuff going on.  I think when he put the team that he wanted on the ice, it kind of happened.  And at the same time, Patrik came back healthy.   
 I think it was a combination of us believing that we're able to play a good, defensive hockey game in the new NHL.  We had our doubts, and I think for the most part of the first part of the season, we didn't believe we were able to do that.  I think when we started getting results, we went on a nine-game winning streak at one point when Lou took over early in January.  I think that made us believe that now we're able to do that.   
 I think the big dimension we have, we have small speed forwards that create a lot of stuff offensively.  So when our power plays started to work, we put everything together playing well defensively and playing well in the offensive zone, also.   
  Q.  You know, you've been part of very successful Devils teams.  Does this have a feel of one of those teams being like when you watch it, it's almost like there's not an air of invincibility, but an air of confidence; like you guys go in thinking you're just going to go in winning this game easily.  Same feeling when you had this success in the past?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  A little bit.  I think we have confidence in what we're able to accomplish out there.  That's similar to the clockwork games that we played over and over throughout my career that we knew we were going to go in and we knew that we were going to play well defensively.  We were just hoping for breaks, and most of the time, it happened.   
 You could see a lot of the same happening to us right now.  We don't shoot ourselves in the foot.  We don't kill tons of penalties and we're disciplined.  I think you have to give a lot of credit to the guys that played in New Jersey.  It's a huge commitment, and I think the commitment now is big, but I think it's rewarding because of the new rules.  Guys are able to go on the power play and they are able to commit themselves five-on-five.  But there's more power play opportunity because of the way we play the game and we turn the puck over.  So when you turn the puck over, you can't touch anybody anymore.  So when teams do that against us, we get on the power play and guys are having fun and working their magic off of that.   
 It's definitely a lot of similarities of some of the good teams that I played.  It's just that now we know exactly what to do.   
  Q.  First of all, talk about your thoughts on the importance of home-ice advantage, especially this stage of the playoffs, and looking back at the first round, your thoughts on why it played a major role in some series but not others?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  Well, I think home-ice advantage, it's only good if you're able to take advantage of it.  I think the first game is the most important.  If you're able to win, if you're at home you win your first game, it makes it tough on the other team knowing that if they don't get that game, the other team only has to win one game in your building.   
 Home-ice advantage, definitely the first game is huge.  If you lose that game, it becomes not even a factor anymore, because the team gets confidence playing on the road, and it's not a big deal.  When you have it, you've got to make the best out of it.  That's the only thing I can say about having home-ice advantage.   
 In regards to our first series, we knew it was going to be a tough opponent, and especially with the fans and everything.  So starting in our home building against a big rival was huge, and being able to get that decisive win early in the series put doubts in their goalie.  And after that we were able to take advantage of it and in the next game, also, so I think that was big for us.   
  Q.  I just saw that the final list came over for the awards and you're a finalist for the Vezina again this year, I know as recently a few weeks ago you didn't think you would have a shot, are you surprised by that or pleasantly surprised?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  No, pleasantly surprised.  I think a lot of goalies had great seasons and definitely with the rocky first half of the season for myself and for the team, I didn't expect to get in on the voting, especially in the top three.  But it's definitely nice that you get that kind of recognition.  We've definitely peaked at the right time and late in the season to get ourselves in a great position.  I guess that was enough for people to consider me as the top three.   
  Q.  You spoke about the impact of some of the rules changes on some of the players and I'm looking here at who gets the most ice time with your team.  Seven or eight years ago no one wanted Brian Rafalski, but now he's your leader, and the next is Paul Martin; does that reflect a lot on how the game has changed?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  Definitely, the guys that have the most ice time probably have the least hits you could have.  It changed a lot.  I think if you're able to be a good skater and be able to move the puck real well, you'll be a successful hockey player in this league.  Paul Martin and Brian Rafalski are guys that are doing it for our hockey club right now.   
  Q.  You made a couple of references to the "new NHL."  Is it a different game for goaltenders in the new NHL, and if so, how?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  It is to a certain extent because I think depending on who you play for, I think discipline becomes a big factor.  I know for me personally, we were pretty disciplined against the Rangers in our first series, but we still allowed five to six, seven power plays a game.  And it becomes a tiring factor because as a goalie, when you have to kill 12 minutes a game, and now the power plays are no longer just 50 seconds in your zone because of the bigger zone in the defensive part, the puck control is a lot greater than it used to be.  I think physically it's a lot more demanding to play the game than before for a goalie because I think your stamina has to be to a level that you didn't really need to have it before.   
  Q.  You weren't criticized because you had such a good first round, but a lot of goalies did receive a lot of criticism for their play in the playoffs.  It seems to me that fundamentally we've changed the game without changing the expectations on the goalies where everybody still wants a goal against average of 2.00 and a save percentage of .930, but goal scoring is up more than one and a quarter in the playoffs, and I just can't see how the two are going to happen.  So do we have to change the expectations of goalies, is it going to be like when grant if you are was playing, 3.5 wasn't bad as long as you made the big save in the key game?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  The way I approach the game, it's all about winning.  So definitely the stats will come with winning.  But I think everybody has to expect that, if everybody wants more goals, well somebody has to pay the price.  It will be the defensemen and the goalies to a certain extent.   
 You saw the big change in the goalies records or the statistics a little bit early in the season.  I think early in the playoffs, you see the same thing.  But I think more and more, the playoffs will go on, I think more and more the goalies' performance or numbers will stabilize.  I think now it's new and everybody has played four, five, six, games, but when you turn around and see a goalie who will advance will have the numbers they think they will (stabilize).   
 You look at the first round, you look at the history of NHL in the playoffs, the team that didn't win -- the goalies that lost usually don't have great stats.   
  Q.  Congratulations on breaking Patrick Roy's most recent record.  I was curious, in the Midwest we hear so much about his career, but your career has rivaled it, if not bettered it.  Do you feel you get enough credit in the media and with the fans?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  I don't have a problem with where I stand in hockey, that's for sure.  I think I've been really fortunate to play with a great team.  I get a lot of recognition throughout my career ... I played for Team Canada and played with the Devils and the Stanley Cup, winning awards and all.  I don't envy anybody else.  And myself, I feel I'm the most fortunate athlete there is because, when you have to live through all of these expectation, it goes both ways sometimes, and so for me, I think it's plenty what I get right now.   
  Q.  The goaltender you'll be playing against beginning Saturday, when was the first time you heard of Cam Ward?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  Well, I played against him early this season in New Jersey, and so that's how I know who he was.  I know he had a great run at one point early this season before Marty Gerber took over and played most of the season.  And I think also Jaromir Jagr made references to Cam Ward being in the top three players for Team Canada or something like that.  So his name got in my head because of that.  He seems to be having fun and a lot of success right now.   
  Q.  You guys left Raleigh on December 17 after a 4-1 loss and nobody thought would you have been back in the playoffs, and obviously that was Larry's last game.  What were you thinking that day and after such a bad loss, and what was the biggest reason for the turnaround since?   
 MARTIN BRODEUR:  Well, the turnaround came probably a couple weeks later.  Definitely it was tough times.  Seeing a guy of the stature of Larry Robinson, of what he accomplished as a coach in New Jersey and in L.A. and all that, tough to go through that.  He's not even getting fired; he decides for himself to leave.  You feel really responsible, especially when you're one of the oldest players and some of the leaders on our hockey club.  We feel like we let the guy down.  It was a big wake-up call to see him go like that.   
 From there, Lou took over the team and really put everybody accountable to what he wanted the team to accomplish, and we were able to turn it around.   
  
  Q.  I know that your sweater number is the same as that of Mr. Brodeur.  Could you explain that?   
 CAM WARD:  Yeah, I think it's just a coincidence that it happens to be the same number as Martin Brodeur.  You know, it's just a number that stuck with me at a young age and has carried over as my career has progressed.   
  Q.  You take a look at that turnaround in the first series that you played against Montreal, what happened inside and outside the locker room that helped to few he will that turnaround for the Hurricanes?   
 CAM WARD:  It was just a matter of regrouping as a team and getting back to playing the way that we played all season long.  We had to remind ourselves how we got to this point and we had all the confidence in the guys in the dressing room that we had the tools to get back into the series.  We just wanted to take it one game at a time and try to keep getting better each and every outing.  Fortunately, that's what happened.   
  Q.  Marty just spoke that experience would matter more and more for goaltenders as the playoffs get deeper.  Obviously you're going up against somebody who has an awful lot of it, any thoughts about how experience will play into this series?   
 CAM WARD:  Well, obviously I have a lot of respect for Martin Brodeur.  He's definitely someone that I grew up watching as a kid and idolized.  I think it's just going to be a thrill for myself to have an opportunity to play on the same ice as Brodeur.  I may not have a lot of NHL playoff experience, but I've got experience at the junior levels down in Red Deer and last year in the American Hockey League; I think that was beneficial to my development.  I'm trying to carry that over to the NHL level as tough as it may team.   
  Q.  Can you talk about how Brodeur came to be your idol, was he just the guy that really captured your attention or what about the way he played or the way he handled the puck or something like that?   
 CAM WARD:  Well, obviously, he's got a lot of skill in the position.  One thing that stands out definitely is his resume in the playoffs.  Just watching him perform and taking his game to another level in the playoffs, you have a lot of respect for.  He's got three Stanley Cups, so he's got quite the resume.   
 You know, growing up as a kid watching him, I guess you just try to take little things from his game and bring them into your own.   
  Q.  Could you elaborate when you're talking about being a boy regarding Mr. Brodeur, did you like play street hockey and pretend you were Marty ever, or maybe not?   
 CAM WARD:  I'm sure I have at one point.  Again, there's a lot of NHL goaltenders that I enjoyed watching and I guess pretended that I was at a young age.  And to finally be at this level and getting the opportunity to play against them is something that you dream about.   
  Q.  I was just wondering if you can explain how your experiences at Lowell last year helped you get to where you are right now?   
 CAM WARD:  I think it was definitely beneficial to my development playing my first pro season in the American Hockey League.  Just getting the experience of the grind of your first pro season.  Getting the opportunities to play against some NHL-caliber players; because of the lockout, there was a lot in the American Hockey League last year which was, once again, very beneficial to myself.  Getting that playoff experience, knowing what it's like to go through a grind in the playoffs is something that you learn from.   
  
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT