CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 18, 2020
Cydney Clanton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Here with Cydney Clanton, who just shot a 6-under, 66.  Quite a round out there.  Tell us about your day.  Looks like you started with a bogey on 4 but then kind of went on a birdie streak after that.
 CYDNEY CLANTON:   You know, it's funny.  I hit the ball really well, but I've been hitting the ball really well, and the putter was finally hot.  I finally made some putts.
 It's also nice to hit some really close and had a par-5 in two have a two-putt.  So it was really nice to see the ball starting to go in the hole.
 Q. Tell us about those birdies out there.  Any that really stood out to you, or were they literally just your putter getting hot?
 CYDNEY CLANTON:   No.  I hit a lot of really close shots.  About holed out on 12; about holed out on 13.  I'm talking about some pretty short putts that help with momentum, and then to make a couple long ones just really pushes it forward to allow me to go deeper.
 Q. An interesting week here so far.  Not a lot of practice with the smoke conditions.  How were you feeling coming into the first round?
 CYDNEY CLANTON:   To be honest with you, I was very tired yesterday.  And I'm not sure, I don't know if it was from sitting around, from the smoke.
 So it's funny, I was kind of thinking about it.  For this whole COVID, the best thing that I've done is just talk about it.  Any time it frustrates me I just talk about it out loud, and that's what I've had to do with my family and my friends.
 I'm thankful they were there to listen to me, because all I can did do is just talk about it.  I don't understand it.  I'm not sure anybody understands it.  So I just talk about it out loud, and that's really helped me.
 Q. It's amazing what we've learned coming out of this.  What have you learned about yourself as a person, as an athlete,  as we dealt with this for the last six months?
 CYDNEY CLANTON:   That I can stay patient and that I can stay in the moment and that I can -- just whatever comes, comes.  That's kind of how was it this week.  It was, should we be here, should we be here, are we going to play, is the weather going to come in, is the air going to get better.
 It's just a waiting game.  So the fact that I could sit and wait and them come out and play really good today is evidence that I can do it.
 Q. Still got the all in hat on.
 CYDNEY CLANTON:   Yeah.
 Q. You seem to be all in right now.
 CYDNEY CLANTON:   Yeah, I try to be.  That's all you can be.  One of my sports psych said, Be wherever your feet are, and so that's where I was today, I was wherever my feet were.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT