U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
May 31, 2018
Cydney Clanton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just talk about the start.  I know it wasn't the start that you were hoping for.
CYDNEY CLANTON: The whole morning was a little bit different than I had planned.  But it started out a little slow, hit one bad shot, went from there.  Never got more momentum after that.  Made a late birdie coming in, which will help the momentum for tomorrow.
Q. How do you take a day like today, make it a positive going into tomorrow?
CYDNEY CLANTON: There were good things today.  There weren't just bad things.  You look at the positives, look where I can make up for tomorrow.  There's good things out there, I just have to be patient and wait for those good things to happen.
Q. How often do you wear an Auburn hat?
CYDNEY CLANTON: Right now a lot.  Really often.  Since I got three new ones for the week, probably even more often.
Q. Does that have anything to do with who you are paired with the next two days?
CYDNEY CLANTON: No.  Even in other tournaments I have worn then.  Right now, since I don't have anybody that wants to put their logo on my hat, I get to wear whatever I want, like Dufner does.  I wear whatever I want and a lot of it is Auburn.
Q. What is your relationship like with the two players you are playing with?  Any smack talking beforehand?
CYDNEY CLANTON: Maybe Emma and I little bit beforehand.  I'm a little better older than the girls, so I don't them very well.  I didn't play with them.  But everybody was super cordial and it was fun and complimentary and so it was a good day.
Q. How were the fans following you guys today?
CYDNEY CLANTON: They were good.  I actually War Eagles than I did hear Roll Tide, so that was fun.  It was fun.  It was great to be here, great to be in Birmingham.
Q. How were the conditions out there?  How do you feel like you handled them?
CYDNEY CLANTON: The conditions are wet.  It's very muggy out.  Everybody needs to extremely stay hydrated and drink as much water as they can because it is muggy.
The conditions are what they are.  There's nothing we can do it about.  Nothing the USGA can do about it.  We couldn't help that there's a huge storm that came in.
Everybody is playing the same conditions.  They are a little bit wet.  You have to be creative, and the more creative you can be the better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT