BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2018
Cydney Clanton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under par today.  It's your best round in quite a while.  How was it out there?
CYDNEY CLANTON: You know, it was good.  It was unfortunate early on I had a ball move, which was my only bogey.  In my head I didn't actually make a bogey today.
Played really good and made some clutch putts coming in, made some good par putts coming in, which was nice.
Q. What was the highlight of the round?
CYDNEY CLANTON: Holed out on 13 today.  That was pretty special.  From what I am told, it never touched the hole.  It went straight in.
Q. Really?
CYDNEY CLANTON: Yep.
Q. From how far?
CYDNEY CLANTON: 72.
Q. So that was the highlight of the day?
CYDNEY CLANTON: I mean, it's pretty special to hole out.  Any time you don't have to putt it's nice.
Q. You're at the top of the leaderboard all by yourself.  How comfortable are you?
CYDNEY CLANTON: You know, I haven't been in this position in a long time.  I won back in 2013 and wasn't even in the lead at all that tournament.  Just came back and won.
So it's been a while since I've been in the lead, so tomorrow just going to take it one shot at a time, one hole at a time.
Q. Yeah.  How did you feel about your game?  Have you been feeling like you had a round like this in you?
CYDNEY CLANTON: You know, this golf course, there are just a lot of birdies out there.  You just have to go in attack mode, because everybody else is going to go in attack mode.
That was kind of the goal:  try to go out and birdie each hole, because it's possible.
Q. Conditions were much calmer today than yesterday.  Did that let you be more aggressive today?
CYDNEY CLANTON: I'm pretty comfortable hitting it into any pin.  Even when it's windy, I'm pretty comfortable and confident in my ability to do it.
So, yes, definitely the weather allowed for me to be more aggressive, but the greens are also receptive.  I can pretty much be as aggressive as I want.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT