JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2016
Cydney Clanton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So take us through the hole-in-one.  17, get a car.  Pretty exciting moment.  
CYDNEY CLANTON: You know, it's really funny, we're walking up to the green and one of the caddies, Lee, was like you know, I just had this feeling.  I had this feeling.  I was looking at the car.  I said, I thought someone might do it.  And I was like, you know, I kind of had the same feeling, but I was sitting there looking at the car, and I was like, if I win the car, I need to change the rims.  I'm not real keen on those.   
But that's a really nice car.  So just got a good number.  The girl in front of me that went said that they were playing a touch further, and so with that I just kind of had the confidence to hit the full 9-iron.  I hit the full 9-iron, looked really good.  It was falling just a little left right at the hole, and I guess it one-hopped in, but none of us saw it.   
 Q.  None of you were able to see it, but when you walk up, you see it's in the hole.  What was your reaction?  
CYDNEY CLANTON: I guess the reaction had already happened once we had walked up, because everybody else was cheering, so once we realized that it was in the hole, everyone gave me a high five and it was really cool.  But the thing about it is I was only halfway through my round, so at that point I was trying to like calm myself down and kind of get back into what I needed to do for the next hole.   
 Q.  And then you put together a really solid round.  Obviously the ace helps.  What about the rest of the day out there for you?  
CYDNEY CLANTON: You know, it was pretty laid back.  I hit some really good shots, and I hit a few miss-hits out there, but I gave myself a lot of opportunities for birdie, so I let a few drop and that's kind of how the day went.   
 Q.  What are the plans for the car, plans for the celebration?  
CYDNEY CLANTON: You know, I have no idea, honestly.  I really don't.  Like it's still kind of a shock that I get a car.  So I don't even know how the process is going to go, so I'm just going to take it as it comes to me.   
 Q.  What number hole-in-one is this for you?  
CYDNEY CLANTON: No. 3.   
 Q.  All in competition?  
CYDNEY CLANTON: I've had one other in competition in college and then I had an albatross at the North-South one year.  So I've had three in competition.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT