NORTH TEXAS LPGA SHOOTOUT PRESENTED BY JTBC
May 1, 2014
Cydney Clanton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I'm now joined by Cydney Clanton.   Just shot a 67 here at the North Texas LPGA shootout.   Cydney, clubhouse leader, tied for the lead right now.   Quick start for you, three birdies in your first five holes.   Talk about the quick start today.   
CYDNEY CLANTON:   You know, it was a good start.   It was a good start.   And I was in the bunker on the first hole and made up‑and‑down, made a long putt on the first hole, and that kind of was the momentum.   You know, to make a good putt on the first hole kind of gets you rolling.  
I then hit a really good shot, had a short putt on my next birdie and made it and just kind of went from there.   I was just feeling it.   As I said, it's always nice to have a long putt that you make on the first hole.   It just gives you some momentum going forward.  
   
 Q.   Sure.   Your first time here at this course at Las Colinas.   What are your thoughts and how is your game suiting up for this track?  
CYDNEY CLANTON:   It's a good golf course, and it sets up well for me.   I hit it pretty far, and so there's quite a few holes that are to my advantage.  
It wasn't as windy as it has been the last few days, but the wind played a factor coming in, and so that was definitely an advantage for me in that I didn't have (inaudible) as some of the other girls might have.  
   
 Q.   You made your first cut last week in San Francisco.   You said you had some struggles but things are starting to click.   Just talk about your game and where it's at right now.   
CYDNEY CLANTON:   You know, all year, I've been really close all year.   Things have been good, and other things have been bad.   It was just I needed everything to click together, and today it seemed to do it.   
You know, I made a few errors out there, but I bounced back with two birdies.   I made a lot of really good putts today and hit some really close shots today.   So today overall was a great day.  
   
 Q.   Second year on tour.   I know you had your rookie season.   You got a couple of events under your belt.   What were the goals coming into this year?   Did you have your eye set on certain events or what were you looking for during your second year?  
CYDNEY CLANTON:   You know, at the end of the year here on the LPGA we have an Asia run, and that's where you can play golf and just free ball it and make a lot of money out there.   And so that's kind of the goal to make it to Asia and play as good as you can out there.  
   
 Q.   Great.   Well, great job so far.   Best of luck the rest of the way.   
CYDNEY CLANTON:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT