NIT SEASON TIP-OFF
November 26, 2004
Skip Prosser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SKIP PROSSER:  This would be a great way to make a living if it wasn't for the games.  I'm really proud of our players.  Again, you don't have to be Pete Knoll or John Thompson or whoever to realize we didn't play our best ball.  I'll give the credit to Arizona for that.  We certainly have a lot of work to do, but this was a game I thought in the first half, we were on the precipice of getting knocked out and somehow, someway we survived to halftime to only be down four buckets.  I felt we had at least one run in us, but, you know, I was growing old waiting for that run.  We finally got it, we got the 8-point lead, and again, give Arizona credit.  They cut it to 1 and we survived somehow, two last-second shot opportunities, even the third maybe.  Again, I'm thrilled with the win, thrilled to come to New York, go home a champion.  Our schedule only gets more difficult.  I think we've played a tough one up to this point, and they say it's good when you play tough teams, they really expose your weaknesses.  But, it seems like our weakness is our legion.  Again, good win for our guys.  Happy to go home with a championship.

Q.  Did you feel like you were able to keep them from getting out on the break?

SKIP PROSSER:  We did a better job.  I think our transition defense, that was our No. 1 key going into the game.  Because I think they are really, really good obviously in transition.  A lot of that is a function of your offense.  If your offense is inefficient, missing shots, throwing the ball to them, usually leads to run-outs for them.  Our offense was far from efficient.  Again, somehow, some way we found the wherewithal, and holding them to 32 percent field goal percentage was probably the key to the game.  Again, 20-plus offensive rebounds; a whole lot we have to get better at.  But at least we did, our defensive field goal percentage was good.

Q.  Do you remember as good of defense since Josh Howard left? 

SKIP PROSSER:  Not really, not really.  I would agree with you on that one.  I guess the team is offensively talented.  Now, having said that, the ends of defense is wrapping up the defensive possession with defensive rebound.  I would make that qualifier.

Q.  He got two very big ones at the end of the game?

SKIP PROSSER:  He should.  As he said, he's big enough to go bear hunting with a broom handle.  He should grasp those basketballs.  At one time the kid took it right out of his hands.  We just have to keep trying to get better.  We survived and I'm happy about that, but the purist in me or the old knight coach in me recognizes there's still a lot to be done, but I'm happy for the players because they showed tremendous resolve.

Q.  What did you like about the matchup of Taron on Shakur?

SKIP PROSSER:  He's a pretty good on the ball defender.  We've had a lot of conversations the last few days.  I think Taron is less than pleased with his game.  I told him it was important he had a breakout game.  It doesn't necessarily have to be a breakout game in terms of scoring a whole lot of points but I don't think we win the game without Taron Downey.  I think that Taron is probably the most selfless person I've ever coached.  

Q.  You mentioned the schedule earlier, tough road trip coming up. 

SKIP PROSSER:  That's what I hear.

Q.  And you have a No. 1 bull's-eye on you. 

SKIP PROSSER:  I heard that, as well.

Q.  How do you pace the team so that they don't get worn down in the early part of the season?

SKIP PROSSER:  That's a concern.  I think that's a valid question.  I think that when you play a schedule like this, the reason is, is one reason, I think kids want to play this kind of schedule.  Coaches are not always overly ecstatic about it, but I think kids want to play this kind of schedule.  We're trying to be a bit of a national team, and so you have to sort of play a national schedule.  I don't know if I'll do that ad infinitum because it could because ad nauseum and I don't want that.   Our guys, we have a tremendous challenge, not just with Illinois, Richmond next week comes into our place and won at Seton Hall, beat Kansas at Kansas.  It doesn't end with Tuesday.  But I think that's what they want to play, and to this point in time, that's who I want to play, as well. 

Q.  For long stretches of the game it seemed like Jamaal was bringing the ball up; were they denying Chris?

SKIP PROSSER:  They did a little bit of that, yeah.  Again, Levy is 38 minute, 12 rebounds, perhaps the most essential piece, if you will, of the puzzle. He has the ability at times, I felt most comfortable with him guarding Channing Frye.  Even though he's at a size disadvantage, he's very bright defensively.  He's got, as you know, long arms and very good anticipatory skills.  But I would have felt good if we'd have had to put him on Stoudamire.  That's one thing he has not done, he has not guarded two guys.  But he'll guard a guy and a half pretty well.

Q.  With Chris Paul just getting four points, is it surprising that you're able to pull it out against the 18th team in the country?

SKIP PROSSER:  As I said two nights ago, that's why you have guys on scholarships.  They get a scholarship, they go to school, get a degree and hopefully they will play well in the games.  I think it would be foolhardy to expect the same kids to do it every game.  But I think, however, to use the football analogy, your quarterback almost always has to play well for you to be successful, and that's quite an onus on Chris when Taron is the one on those two guys' backs.  So, we came up here last year and beat Memphis up here.  Memphis is a good team.  I think Chris had like one bucket.  Fortunately I think we are blessed with some balance that we can win when he doesn't necessarily score a lot of baskets but I thought he made some really, really good assists, and he's as competitive as you can get.

Q.  Was that Shakur's size, did that neutralize Chris offensively some?

SKIP PROSSER:  That was part of it.   But I think Chris would be the first to he will you that he missed some shots he normally makes.

Q.  Nobody has asked you about Justin?

SKIP PROSSER:  That's a shock. 

Q.  As usual.  Talk about his toughness, he got laid out again tonight. 

SKIP PROSSER:  Well, you know, I don't get all wrapped up in MVPs and things like that, I'm happy for our team.  They won the Championship, that's why I try to get to the locker room as quickly as I can, it's their trophy.  But he does, you're right, he has a courage that's contagious.  Not unlike Josh Howard.  Again, sometimes it's misplaced. 

Q.  What do you mean by that?

SKIP PROSSER:  Well, he'll take some shots or make some decisions that you shake your head about, again, from a purist standpoint.  But you can't take the competitiveness out of him.  He plays like a lion.  And again, I think the whole game, he kept talking on the bench, you know, "We're going to win, coach, get me in there, we're going to win, we're going to win."   


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT