NIT SEASON TIP-OFF
November 23, 2001
Skip Prosser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH PROSSER:  To see Ron only had a ten-point level was obviously the telling point of the game.  We talked about taking care of the ball was the key to beating Syracuse.  I thought we did that in the first half with perhaps six turnovers.  I think then we had 13 in the second half and there was the difference in the game.  I thought we shot poorly.  And we had a couple of chances even after they made the run.  I thought, you know, regain control and we didn't hit a big shot or make a big play.  Syracuse did and that's the reason why they're champions and we're not.  

Q.  Can you talk about how you tried to attack the press?  

COACH PROSSER:  It happened so fast.  I mean, it wasn't -- I just don't think we were aggressive enough against it and we made some -- we didn't get the ball cross out of court.   Again, it happened quickly, you know.  We called our two timeouts.  We tried to adjust, but again -- I don't think it was cryptically in anything they were doing.  We just threw the ball to them. 

Q.  Was it anything you guys anticipated or you anticipated the two, three zone?  

COACH PROSSER:  They played a two-three zone about 37 minutes, wouldn't you say.  I don't think it was a problem.  We had prepared against Arkansas pressure, one day in between, we didn't spend a lot of time on press offense.  I think that was self-evident.  Usually you don't.  

Q.  Was part of it Hicks' foul?  You guys (inaudible). 

COACH PROSSER:  No, I wouldn't use that as a reason.  

Q.  What do you think about the NCAA trying to curb these tournaments and preseason and NIT and -- 

COACH PROSSER:  I would disagree with that.  It's the only way Ball State is going to get to play Kansas, I'm guessing, on a neutral force.  I would -- I think it was -- it was a double-edge sword for us.  In all honesty, the tournament -- we're a team with a new coaching staff that needs practice time.  When you're in a tournament like this, especially you play off four games -- four?  I think it's four that's necessarily then practice time we miss.  But having said that, you know, I think we played four straight NCAA tournament teams.  So that, obviously, exposed some things we need to work on.  

Q.  How much more difficult is it to step into a situation like this when you've got so many return players who have been playing one style of basketball for two or three years and try to install your own system?  

COACH PROSSER:  Our players are good kids and they're willing listeners.  They're trying to do the right thing.  As I said earlier, the only, you know, problems we just haven't had as much practice time the last couple of weeks.  We played five games in the last two weeks.  That's a bit of a problem when you have a new system, if you will, but the other part, it's not a big deal.  

Q.  Talk about the one-two punch, Shumpert and Williams; can you compare them to the other people you're going to face?  Obviously you haven't faced Duke at the school.  Compare them with a Dvhon or Dunlevy?  

COACH PROSSER:  To go against those guys to make those comparisons, that would be really invalid.  I never coached against those guys.  

Q.  Anybody in the A10 in the last couple of years?  

COACH PROSSER:  Nelson O'Connnor from St. Joe's.  I can't think of anybody else.  

Q.  Skip, since you work against your press in practice, were you disappointed you didn't handle theirs?  

COACH PROSSER:  Yes.  

Q.  Was there any particular things you saw that led to that?  

COACH PROSSER:  I think we panicked a little bit.  I think that -- I think it was a collective effort.  I don't think there was any one guy who made a flurry of turnovers.  I think we were very democratic in spreading our turnovers around.  I'd have to see the tape.  I think just about everybody on the floor tossed one away, even after we came back and took the lead, not come back and took the lead was tied up.  We still had several possessiones where we had open shots and missed them, or turned the ball over, and so we turned the ball over against the press.  I thought we turned the ball over against the zone in the last four minutes, which we hadn't done the whole game.  Again, I think that was a collective effort.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT