NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: HURRICANES v RED WINGS
June 4, 2002
Kris Draper
Aaron Ward
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  If anyone had told you before the series began that Game 1 would come down to the third period, what would you have said?
 
AARON WARD: I would have said in the locker room all 30 guys in there that we are all confident, we are going to make it a game and we   
 are going to give ourselves a chance.  Biggest key right now, we broke the Hasek jinx right now.  We are worried about trying to get the puck behind him.  The confidence is there.  We got two.  Hopefully we can build on it.     
 
Q.  On a team full of stars, how important is it that the grind-line contribute night after night?
 
KRIS DRAPER: I think we have to.  Those guys draw a lot of attention to themselves, and it's tough for them to get a lot of room out there. We just try and go chip-in with some goals.  I think if we can do that, it helps out this hockey club.  It takes a little pressure off guys that are expected to score goals.   
 
Q.  Even up on the score and shots and chances.  What is your estimation of the Hurricanes through two?
 
KRIS DRAPER: Well,  we've watched them a lot through the Playoffs, very disciplined hockey club and we got to stay patient.  We can't get frustrated.  We just have to go out there.  We have a game plan; we have to stick with it. 
 
Q.  What about in terms of rest, they had a little bit more than you did.  Any effect there on a team that's a little bit older like yours?
 
KRIS DRAPER: A little bit young at heart.  We got a lot of guys that take care of themselves.  Obviously we had a great series with Colorado but you get a couple of days off, we're playing a Stanley Cup Finals, no time to be tired.  We have got two weeks to play some more hockey.  It is the time of our lives, so being tired is not an excuse.  We're ready to go and we should be all right. 
 
Q.  On a team as talented as the Wings, what might we expect in this situation as you come out for the third?
 
KRIS DRAPER: Like I said no panic, we got a lot of experience in our dressing room.  We knew what this series was going to be like.  Like I said, we have to stay patient.  They have a system.  They stay with it, and we got to stay with our game plan as well. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT