WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2009
Prayad Marksaeng
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Thoughts on your finish?   
 PRAYAD MARKSAENG: I made a mistake on 18. I got bad luck, the ball was in the rough, and difficult rough. I got bad luck on 18. The third shot is in the rough on the right rough, and it's difficult to take it out, and then 3-putt.   
  
  Q. Are you going to have trouble sleeping tonight thinking about the one hole?   
 PRAYAD MARKSAENG: It's finished already. I'm thinking about tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Are you thinking about the Masters?   
 PRAYAD MARKSAENG: I have a chance this week and the next two weeks to get into the Masters. I will try my best to do that.  
 I think that if I can get into the Masters this year, I will play better than last year.   
  
  Q. How difficult is it to put No. 18 out of your mind?   
 PRAYAD MARKSAENG: I'm disappointed today because the third shot is good, the tee shot is good, but he makes another mistake, so if tomorrow I get in the fairway, maybe I will try again.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 PRAYAD MARKSAENG: I came from a poor family and so many members are in my family, so I had to work and make money for survival. I worked when I was young and worked many kind of work, like bicycle and like a taxi and selling food at a railway station. I was a caddie and a boxer, also.   
 So many things I have done because I need some money for survival and for my family, also.   
  
  Q. Would you ever imagined doing so well?   
 PRAYAD MARKSAENG: I never thought that I would come up here this day. I thought I would only be able to play the Asian Tour, but now I can come up at this stage. Golf changed my life.   
  
  Q. How did you do as a boxer?   
 PRAYAD MARKSAENG: I got in a competition two times but I lost. Very painful. I am the only one in the family with enough money to help my parents.   
 I was lucky that I lived around a golf course and I saw so many, many men play golf, and then they got money, thinking about maybe I can take that as a career. So I thought early about golf competition. I forgot about drugs and friends and society like that. I don't smoke and I don't drink. It's safer.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT