SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 26, 2013
Jay Delsing
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Could you go ahead and elaborate on your day?
JAY DELSING:   Yeah, I went along, I had about a five foot birdie putt on No. 12 to go 4‑under for the day that I hit nicely and it just lipped out. 
And then I went to No. 13 and made triple bogey.   I actually shanked two balls.   I don't think I've ever shanked a ball in competition in ‑‑ how long have I been doing this?   A long time.   29 years.   So pretty crazy.   I didn't really know what to expect. 
And then I made another birdie and then the round was over.   It was anti‑climactic, because I really played well today.

Q.   No. 6 I understand you got a birdie?
JAY DELSING:   I did.   That hole scares me.   It's a hell of a hole.   And I just hit it ‑‑ I hit a nice iron shot, just off to the left edge of the green and managed to get it in there somehow. 

Q.   All in all for the weekend you don't end up with the trophy in the end, but the experience of being here, getting back into competition means what?
JAY DELSING:   Yeah.   Right now I'm a little hot from what happened, but all in all to take away from the week in general it's been fantastic.   It's been great to be back, it's great to have the health to feel like I can play again, and then get to play in my hometown, it's fantastic.   St. Louis is great.   So that's what I'll take away from it. 
It's just hard to think about it right now, it's a little fresh in my mind, but that's what I'm taking away from it.

Q.   Do you feel like this could be a starting point again for you?   Healthy again, playing again?
JAY DELSING:   I hope so.   It's a hard game.   Today reminded me how hard it was, because I have no excuses at all about what I did, back‑wise.   But I hope it is.   You always want to be able to kind of control your terms and if you decide to stop playing, it's because you decide to stop playing, not because you were forced out, you were hurt or something.   So, yeah, hopefully that's it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT