SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2013
Jay Delsing
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
JAY DELSING:   It's fun.   It's like I was telling you yesterday, the golf right now is a bonus.   I had a great week, I'm able to play again, so it's a lot of fun.   And I really played well today, even though I didn't get the score, I hit a lot of real quality shots, not very many ‑‑ yesterday coming in my back nine was real stinky and I hit a lot of bad ones.   
Today I only hit maybe two.   I had a couple of wrong clubs, that didn't help, but it was, I was much more in control today.   But Bellerive's a tough course.   
   
 Q.   You say that, but then you have a guy like Roger Chapman go out today and throw nine birdies at this golf course.   How do you relate to that?  
JAY DELSING:   Exactly.   I'm still trying to process that.   I just saw on the score he had nine birdies and four bogeys, I guess, right?   
So there's some really good players in this field and Roger's absolutely one of them.   And I don't know how he birdied half the holes.   Pretty good stuff.   
   
 Q.   You still have one more day to play, but at this point in time, what do you take away about your game from this week?  
JAY DELSING:   I've done a lot of really good stuff, with the exception of about five swings.   I know that's ‑‑ which if you gave everybody that in the field that option, they would have a lot of change in their score.   
But for me, I really didn't know what to expect.   I was preparing to want to win the championship and if I was playing well, I was certainly going to do everything I could, but I really didn't know what to expect.   And for the most part, there's been a lot of good, way more good than bad.   Way more.   So I'm encouraged.  
   
 Q.   Physically you have held up well?  
JAY DELSING:   Yeah, so far.   I didn't sleep very well last night, but I got my daughter in town and we got a lot of commotion and fun stuff at the house, so I'm just, I'm glad.   Physically, I feel great.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT