SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2013
Jay Delsing
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
JAY DELSING:   It wasn't anything in particular, other than I hit a lousy iron off of No. 2 and I hit it in the lake.   Which is just one of those things.   I'm laying up, it's not like I'm trying to be aggressive or anything, I'm just trying to hit the ball in the fairway.   
And the way I describe it, I didn't really do anything that poorly, I just, it's almost like I never played before.   
   
 Q.   You haven't played in a long time.   
JAY DELSING:   Yeah, I haven't played in two and a half years, but I got, what really bugged me is I, about three times today around the greens I had these shots and there's no way to really practice them except by playing.   And everything I did, I was right in between.   
So if I was, I wanted to play a low shot, but I played it with the wrong club.   Just some stuff that I don't normally do.   So results weren't horrible, but they're not hard shots for me.   And then I look back on them and I'm like, gosh, why didn't I do this.   And it's just not playing.   And it's just sloppy.   
   
 Q.   Is it maybe after 27 holes of doing something you hadn't done in two and a half years, maybe from a mental standpoint it kind of catches up with you?  
JAY DELSING:   I don't know.   I felt really good, I didn't feel tired at all.   I felt like my concentration was good.   It's been great week for me though.   It's been a really positive week for me no matter what.   
I was trying to come in ‑‑ and I don't know if 4‑over is going to make the cut or not.   It probably will be really close.   But it's one of those things I was trying not to put a whole lot of pressure on myself by preparing to win, mentally.   But I just don't know what I'm going to have in between the lines.   And today I didn't have much in between ‑‑ golf's not trying to hit a 6‑iron 190 yards, which that's the easy part, it's how do you hit it 172 yards when you have wind and this and that.   And that's the stuff that I struggled with.   
   
 Q.   It's really hard to get back playing here than when you're playing at home?  
JAY DELSING:   You can't.   You have to play, play.   I told my buddy, these shots, those are shots I'm really good at, but I didn't quite get there today.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT