FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 28, 2006
Jay Delsing
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JAY DELSING:  It was a great week.  I played    I had a really good opportunity today to win this tournament.  I got off to a 3 under start after five holes, and, you know, I just didn't do the things you need to do to keep the score low and stay up there.  I didn't do well around the greens.  I missed a couple of putts that I shouldn't have missed, and I didn't hit the ball in the fairway as much as I'd like.

The golf course will eat you alive.
Q.  When you had it going and got it to 8, were you fighting it off a little bit or feeling good?
JAY DELSING:  I was feeling great.  This is what I've worked so hard for, so you try to take a deep breath and enjoy it.  So the one thing I can tell you, the bad shots I hit were not because I was trying to protect.  I just hit bad shots.  A lot of my tendencies in my swing will come out on a day like today when you have the most pressure on you.

So a lot of my swings were kind of new and old versions, and so they don't particularly work so well.

So, it's great to be in Memphis.  It's great to play this golf course and to be here.  I love it.  Like a home week with me, with friends and family.  People are great.  Phil and his staff, they couldn't do enough for us, you know.  So my family and I just love it here.
Q.  Were you thinking of scoring, particular a score that would win it?
JAY DELSING:  I was thinking 10, and so when I was at 8, I wasn't where    I really wasn't aware of what everybody else was doing.  Someone told me when I was at 8 I had the lead.  I didn't know that.  I was just trying to do my thing, you know.  I wasn't thinking that at all.
Q.  How about the 61?

A    Those days are gone.
Q.  Some of the greats in the game don't know if they want to play.  What about now?
JAY DELSING:  I hope to because this town deserves it.  FedEx is a great sponsor for us.  I've been a member of the Tour for 22 years.  They've been there every step of the way.  It's fantastic.  I think word of mouth will go around and people will start playing.

The place on the schedule is the biggest thing, the biggest thing to get the top players here, but gosh darn the guys deserve it.  I hope I'm here next year.  I hope I do a couple better than I did last year.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT