FEDEX ST. JUDE CLASSIC
May 27, 2006
Jay Delsing
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Jay, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the FedEx St. Jude Classic.  Nice round out there today.  Why don't you just talk a little bit about the conditions, and you played great there on the back 9.
JAY DELSING:  Thank you very much.  It seemed to be about 20 degrees warmer today.  Not as much wind blowing.  Excuse me.  Made it a little more humid.  The golf course is in fabulous shape.  The changes they made here are fantastic and coming from    seeing I really, really liked the old course.  It's one of my favorite tournaments.

The FedEx is just up the road.  My family comes down, and so it's a great, great tournament for me.  I know a lot of people, Phil and his whole staff do a great job.  It's a lot of fun.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Questions, please?
Q.  You had the record of 61 here.  The changes, how do you see the course change a lot?  Do you see it's gotten tougher in places?  Is it generally tougher all the way around?
JAY DELSING:  Generally tougher all the way around.  Jim Hardy is the guy that made some of the changes, and he's a good friend of mine.  He's been kind enough to coach me in my swing the last couple of years.  He just took away some of the little things that you may not notice that make the golf course play a little easier.  Took out a lot of the bunkers around the front edges of the green so that before, if you were a little short with an approach shot, you catch a bunker and not have a difficult up and down.  Now, you come up a little short, your ball goes back in the water.  It's the case on No. 3, the case on No. 12, and probably a couple more like that.

He also moved some tees around.  They've added some length to hole No. 13 and a couple others, and No. 7, I think.  And so he just made it tougher all the way around.  The biggest change probably is the bermuda on the greens.  The greens are fabulous, but they are really fast, and they're kind of sneaky fast because you don't really    they're so dark and plush and so much grass on them, you don't normally expect those to be that fast.  But they'll really get away from you if you don't know where the grain is and don't watch where the slopes are.
Q.  Jay, this is just your second PGA Tour event of the year.  Talk about your year at this point.
JAY DELSING:  You know what, I got with my wife and I kind of    not kind of.  I made a commitment to play mostly the Nationwide Tour.  Mentally it's a really hard thing to go play on it for me.  I played most of my career out here.  Feel like I'm still good enough to play out here and win out here.  And the problem that I kept having was that last year, I think I got into 11 to tour events.  Made 8 of the 11 cuts.  I had two Top 10 finishes.  I didn't improve my position at all.  My wife and I have have four children and a lot going on.  It's killing me to not have November and December off.

So basically what I've done is try to focus mostly on the Nationwide and try to get my card back through that, and so that's kind what I've been doing.
Q.  What's your status?
JAY DELSING:  I'm in the category called the past champion veteran member category.  That's how I got in roughly 11 events last year.  But the priority is so low, and you never know when you're going to get in.  You may be flying somewhere.

A couple times last year I flew, you know, I don't know where I was, but fly pretty much across the country to get in on Wednesday.  And fortunately for me when I did that, I know most of the courses we play, but just in terms of scheduling and some sort of peace of mind family wise, it doesn't make a lot of sense and, no one is really getting their card that way where they kind of hop around.  No one that I've known has done that.  So as much as I'd like to think I'd be the first one, I don't know if, you know, it's really sound thinking.
Q.  Get you to talk about that stretch on the back 9.
JAY DELSING:  Yeah.  I played No. 11 well so far this week.  I birdied it everyday.  I hit a nice 9 iron to about four, five feet, and then I made a nice    probably about a 15 or 20 footer on the next hole, No. 12.  And I birdied No. 14 as well.  Pretty accessible pin, put the tees up and the pin right on in the front edge.  That hole is all so visually intimidating.  If you're not trusting your swing, you can hit that thing anywhere.

I felt real fortunate there.  I hadn't hit the fairway on 15 all week.  I finally hit the fairway but didn't hit the right club off the tee, so I had to kind of hit a low hooking shot around the tree.  I hit it up a little too high and caught some limbs and went in the water.  That was my bogey.

I birded 16.  I hit a driver and 4 iron just short of the green.  Hit a really nice little bump and run, pitch a yard or two short of the green to a couple feet, and parred the last two holes.
JOAN vt ALEXANDER:  Everybody all set?  Thanks, Jay.
JAY DELSING:  Great.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT