MCI CLASSIC
April 16, 1999
Per-Ulrik Johansson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: Yeah, I mean, it was pretty much similar to yesterday, I thought, both the way I played and the way the conditions were.  It wasn't quite the same direction.  It was probably turned around about 45 degrees, the wind.  But it played pretty tough out there.  I played solid.  So I am very happy the position I am in.  Only mistake was on 17.  I hit a great shot there.  Only had 158 yards to the flag, straight into the wind.  Hit a punch 5-iron, just right of the green and didn't get it up-and-down. That was the only bogey in 36 holes, so I am pleased with that.

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: No. 2, driver, 3-iron to the front of green, chipped it up to about ten feet, holed it.  No. 6, driver, wedge, 30 feet.

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: Yeah, that was a fun one.  I got a little bit disturbed on the backswing there, hit it right in the trees only 145 yards left, sort of rolled the 4-iron on the ground, it hit the flag and just finished three feet from the flag, so...


Q.  What did you say happened in the backswing?

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: I got a bit disturbed.  Someone was -- it was like a house behind the tee box, and I think they were like doing the ice or something.  I don't know what they were doing.  I stood over the ball, they are not going to do it again, they just got me.  I was a bit upset there.  But it was a nice bonus on that hole.

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: A wedge to about 20 feet.


Q.  This may be out there already, you know, everybody has heard about it.  I would like to know, once again, how you qualified to be in this tournament.

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: Well, I think I asked for this invite because I played in The Masters last week and I got it last year and I got it again, and I really appreciate that.  I don't know why, but turned out good.  And it is just very appreciative to get that.  It is a nice tournament.  So I am going to try to mix it up a bit to play a few over here and a few in Europe.


Q.  How much is the European media following your progress here or your home country?

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: Well, yeah, I usually call a guy from one of the biggest papers and they will follow it.  They  followed Jesper Parnevik a lot and Gabriel Hjertstedt who has done pretty well.  It is followed pretty well. Probably make some calls later.


Q.  Does Jesper give you any advice?

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: No, I don't want to take advice from him.  Then I will be in trouble.  No, actually, I am staying with him.  His family's here this week over at the Marriott here, so it is nice.  We get a bit of home cooking from his wife, and it is fun.  Only thing you get is like 6 o'clock in the morning the kids are screaming.  But got to get used to that.  Maybe it is my turn in the next few years.


Q.  You mentioned the U.S. Open was one of those tournaments you wanted to play this year.  A strong showing here may get you there in terms of the money list.  Is that --

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: It could.  I am in good position now to sort of have -- I definitely got some ambition to play in the weekend now.  Whatever happens, somehow I will get in there, either qualify or do well here.  And obviously they are playing Pinehurst this year, which is the course I never played.  And I heard it is a great golf course, so I'd love to be there.


Q.  Payne Stewart was in here earlier with the lead, obviously, and he has played here, I think, 12 or 13 times; has won it twice.  And he talked a lot about local knowledge, how that helps.  You never played it before, yet you are performing pretty well -- not as many times, anyway.  Do you agree, though, that the more you play it, the better you get at this course?

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: Yeah, I think it is not that -- you don't have to know exactly everything about the golf course.  Look at Tiger, he won The Masters.  That is probably the course you probably have to know; the more you play it, better you do.  And he won it first time as a pro.  It helps, but it is not necessarily true all the time.  If you play well you have confidence, you know, I think that is enough to do well.


Q.  The better you do over here, does it give you more ambition to play over here more, in other words, start to get -- would you play here more if you got more victories or would you split it up?

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: I probably would not give up membership of the European Tour, but I would like to play more over here.  I would like to be able to play -- split it up a little bit.  It is possible now with the schedule being so strong over here early and I could play in Europe maybe in the middle of the summer and play here in the beginning of the year so...


Q.  For those of us that aren't out here with the Tour, can you sort of explain the hat thing?

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: The hat thing?  When Payne saw me wearing this the first time he said if I was younger I would wear it the same way, but he wears it this way.  Makes me 20 years younger wearing it this way.  The thing was I signed a new contract with Cobra; only  way I was going to sign it was to wear a hat.  I never liked wearing a normal baseball cap so looked around for a few different hats and Cobra thought this was a good idea, and it has got some  -- some people think it is a bit much, but most of it is pretty positive.  It definitely gets the recognition and people recognize me.  It is good for me; it is good for Cobra and I think it is fun for golf.  Everybody doesn't have to look the same and I think this maybe makes the young people look at you; maybe make them play more as well.  It is just one of those things.


Q.  Was it inspired at all by Jesper's --

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: No, not really.  Although his reason  -- you know what his reason was?


Q.  He turned it up for good luck?

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: To get the sun tan because he was playing in Florida and he never got a tan.  He turned it up to get a tan in his face.  That really wasn't my intention.  It is fun, though.


Q.  Do you wear other caps backwards when you wear them?

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: No.  Just this one.


Q.  You wear other caps at all?

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: I could wear a baseball cap; turn it around after skiing, when you are done skiing, go down have a beer that is when you turn the hat around.  That is the only time.  But I will just wear it like this.  Usually wear -- we have thicker hats in Sweden, you know, ski hats because it is so cold I use that when I run in the winter, but I don't really like wearing hats.


Q.  Where did you find one to start the idea?

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: Funny thing was a player in Sweden called Peter Hedblom, he plays on the European Tour.  His sister plays on the Women's Tour in Europe and she wears one of those.  I got one from her.  So I tried it on; looked in the mirror go, well, so, sort of ran around town asked friends, what do you think; what do you think.  Well, I don't know.  I called Cobra and said, listen, I want to do this, and they are okay.  It was cool.


Q.  Did they make that one up special with Cobra; what would be the back otherwise; is that the --

PER-ULRIK JOHANSSON: This is a Kangol hat.  I think it is made in Britain.  Now I got this little my trademark too:  "PU." It is a special hat now.  Maybe we will make a business out of it.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT