BIG TEN FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: PENN STATE VS WISCONSIN
December 3, 2016
Paul Chryst
Corey Clement
Vince Biegel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Penn State - 38, Wisconsin -31
THE MODERATOR: We'll ask Coach Chryst for an opening statement and then questions for the student-athletes.
COACH CHRYST: First of all, congratulate Penn State, and we didn't make enough plays to win the game.  But really, really proud of our players, and two great examples of it up here, Vince and Corey, two guys that I think are indicative of this team that put everything out there.  And it's hard -- it's hard to lose, but appreciative of what they did, all the players did to get us here.  And we've got one more game that we get to play together.  But it's tough, obviously.
THE MODERATOR: Questions.
Q. Paul, how easy is it to put a game like this behind you in your future and focus on the good things you've done this season?  How quickly are you able to do that, and how quickly do you think the team is able to do that?
COACH CHRYST: I think that's one of the things that our team's been able to do.  The timetable's different right now.  And these players put a ton into this season.
And we came down here confident that, you know, we would play well.  And we have to put it behind us.  And like I said, our timetable is different.  But we'll respond.  We'll come back.  And this team's got grit and it's got substance and it's got tremendous leadership, and we'll bounce back.
Q. Coach, it seemed like the defense didn't play as well as they often do, but the offense played a little bit better.  Was there anything that you saw that led to that sort of role reversal for the strengths of this team?
COACH CHRYST: I don't know if that's -- I didn't see it -- our team plays, and I thought that we had -- you know, there's a couple of pivotal moments in that game, and the end of the second quarter and we get a turnover by our defense, and we didn't do anything with the ball.
We punt.  And they came and end up scoring right before half, make it 28-14.  And the first drive I thought in the second half we had a chance to punch it in and get a touchdown, and we didn't.
And the one thing that's been constant with this team is it's been a team.  And our team didn't make enough plays tonight to beat Penn State.
Q. Vince, in the first half, the pass rush was having a lot of success.  What did Penn State do differently in the second half to neutralize the guys up front for the most part?
VINCE BIEGEL: We'll have to look at the film, but we had good pressure in the first half.  I think give credit to Penn State for being able to come out the second half, make those adjustments.
The pass rush wasn't as effective in the second half.  That goes down to players like myself and our pass rushers who need to get after it.  But also give credit to Penn State, their players on their team, for making those adjustments, and allowing those big plays to happen.
Q. T.J. got a lot of penetration of the opposing backfield early on tonight.  Looking ahead, could you see him like being one of the leaders and main guys for the next year's team to rally around?
COACH CHRYST: I think we're going to finish this out with this team, and we've got a lot of guys -- we've got a small senior class but a class that means a ton to this team, and one thing that I think that has always happened, and you don't take it for granted, but the seniors, they leave a legacy, and not just in what they do on the field but how to go about every day.
And we've got a lot of guys that will step up.  T.J. is certainly one of them, but we've got a lot of guys.  And just Vince and Corey have passed along just like they were taught and mentored, and I think that's one of the things that makes this, this program, special.
Q. Corey, obviously tough to end one yard short at the end of the game, but the rushing attack was successful.  What was working well for you guys consistently?  And if you could take us through the last play, what you saw and what ended up going on?
COREY CLEMENT: It starts up front.  Those guys did a heck of a job making adjustments every time they got a chance to snap the ball.  So my hat's off to the O line for doing their prep earlier in the week which allows my patience to connect with those guys.
It's all about being relaxed and patient with this O line, because they work in such a fantastic way that you have to allow them to set up the blocks the way they needed to.
As far as the last play goes, it's just all about who wanted it more.  And it's one yard.  Either got it or didn't.  But I'm pretty sure that everybody on the field laid it out on the line for that last play.
Q. Coach, coming into this game, whoever was going to win had a good argument to be a playoff team.  But at the same time there's still a lot of questions about whether or not the winner of this game will be a playoff team.  Is there any steps that you would like to see the NCAA possibly take maybe making a championship winner an automatic bid for a playoff team?
COACH CHRYST: No, I haven't spent any time.  We came here to win a Big Ten Championship.  And I don't have any comment about it.
Q. Corey, does this game feel at all like the Ohio State game having the lead at halftime and then not being able to close it out?
COREY CLEMENT: To be honest, the game felt like this game and only this game.  We didn't reflect back, have any flashbacks at all.  And when we focus on just being us, that's the only job at hand.  So as far as the Ohio State game goes, that's in the past.  This is a completely different team, different mindset, different guys, and along with a different coach.
So I think two years ago it doesn't reflect how we played today.  So it's all about owning our assignments.  And today, like I said, we didn't make the plays to beat Penn State, enough plays to do that.
VINCE BIEGEL: I'd also agree this is a different team, two different teams.  We're not focused on or do not go back to the 2014 Ohio State game.
We're focused on 2016, Wisconsin Badgers football team.  We were confident going into halftime.  But you also have to give credit to Penn State, they were able to make adjustments.  It was very important.  And they made more plays than we did.  That was the outcome of the game.
Q. Corey and Vince, what are you guys feeling right now?  Can you kind of explain, put into words, the feelings you're going through.  Is it shock, disappointment, combination of everything?
VINCE BIEGEL: You know, these are the games as a senior you dream about for coming back.  Myself and Corey, we came back for our senior seasons for games like this.
And these are the games you dream about, being in a Big Ten Championship game, represent the University of Wisconsin, represent Wisconsin.  I'm really proud of this team.  Obviously we didn't take care of our business today, but that doesn't take away from the great season we had, the type of journey, the ups and downs we've had, the players who stepped up.
This is a very, very tight team, and I'm proud of my team.  Obviously we're going to break down the film and learn from it.
But this one's going to sting for a while.  It's going to take a while to get the sour taste out of your mouth.  But it starts back to working back hard, and we'll figure out where we are in the bowl game.  And our preparation starts there, from getting that bad taste out of our mouth.
COREY CLEMENT: I mean, Vince said it.  Basically at the moment, the sadness is out of the way.  I'm extremely proud of the way these guys came out and battled.  And this season that we've been on, it wasn't an easy road.
So if I can look back, this season has been definitely a great season to come back for.  And as of right now, this team's definitely going to stick with me forever.
These are new brothers I bonded with and made new friendships, especially with the freshman class.  Those guys helped lead the way, too.  If I can look at it, I'm just extremely proud and the sadness is definitely out the window now.  All I can think about is the positives.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach.
Q. Coach, two things:  One, was there any thought in the second half about putting Hornibrook in?  Also, just what didn't go right for you guys overall in the second half?
COACH CHRYST: No, didn't think about that.  And, you know, I think defensively I thought we did -- Barkley hit a couple of runs, did a good job against the run, but they made some plays down the field.
We didn't do enough to make McSorley uncomfortable, and they made plays and offensively there were a couple of possessions where we didn't get points out of them.
And I guess third down, it's a stretch where we weren't great on third down, and fourth and one at the end of the game, we don't get that one.  And you've got to make plays to win a game.  And it came down to that.  They made key plays.  And we made plays but we just didn't make enough at the key points.
I thought, like I said earlier, we just missed Fum at the goal line, and they bring pressure and able to give them a chance to get the ball out.  And we missed on that, and that changes the game.  And we missed a field goal.
And it's football.  And you gotta make plays.  And we made some, but not enough.
Q. Coach, it was either after the Michigan game or the Ohio State game, Sojourn talked about his team through his time here came close but struggled to put themselves over the top.  I guess Nebraska you were able to do that, but obviously in this one falling a bit short.  What is the key to doing that, the coming up to that, taking it to the next level and being able to finish on top of these big games?
COACH CHRYST: We had a lot of big games.  We had 12 big games.  And we had a chance to play this game.  We won a lot of those.  And it wasn't easy.  First game of the season is a pretty big game, and they found a way to do that.
You're right, we didn't win in overtime against Ohio State.  And we lost by a touchdown to Michigan.
You gotta go play the game.  And this team plays it.  But I think that this team has won some big games.  And we haven't won them all.  And we're going to always work to get better.  But I'm proud of this group.
Q. Was Alec available if you guys did need to turn to him?
COACH CHRYST: He didn't play tonight.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT