NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 25, 2002
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Martina, please.  
 
 
Q.  Martina, she said, admitted she was tired, maybe because she played singles and doubles right away.  Is that a difference, maybe attain better fitness?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I mean, she's had some great matches this year so far.  So, you know, she's definitely an upcoming player this year.  She's had great results.  She beat Jennifer in Sydney.  So her game has been improving from last year.  And now it's, you know, to take another step.  If she's going to be able, I think, my game doesn't really suit her.  I make her play a lot and don't make many mistakes.  She just had to go for too much sometimes.  She doesn't get too many free points, as sometimes she does from the others.  I think that was the key today.  
 
Q.  Could you tell her, tell if she was tired out there? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I mean, it was hot.  I was getting tired.  I played singles and doubles yesterday as well.  So it's a busy schedule here.  You got to play later on and tomorrow again.  So you just have to accept this if you want to play both, and you know what to expect. 
 
Q.  Where do you feel your game is right now? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I've dropped four games in three matches so far, so I think it's pretty good. 
 
Q.  For the year, is this where you hope to be at this level? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, definitely.  Like I said, I played a lot of matches already this year.  My confidence is up there.  And we'll see what will happen in the next one.  Just take it one at a time.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like the preliminaries are over, now you got the heavy weights coming up like Serena? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, you don't want to think of Stevenson as a light-weight.  I mean, she's a heavy hitter.  And so...  It was great preparation, I'd say, to play her in the next round.  
 
Q.  I have a question along those lines.  She's a big girl, powerful strokes.  Everyone has been talking about how that's the future of women's tennis. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Who?  Alexandra?  
 
Q.  Well, the big girls with the powerful serves and powerful ground strokes.  Do you feel like this was another statement that, "Don't discount yourself," I mean, the way you were able to fairly easily handle that? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I mean, I just grew up with this.  So I've been always the youngest and, you know, not the kind of player who always worked with power.  So for me, it just comes naturally.  If you want to stay at the top, you got to face it.  That's what I'm trying to do. 
 
Q.  Does that bother you, how everyone keeps  --?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  No, it doesn't bother me.  I'm trying to be there and play them.  You have to play them.  I enjoy it. 
 
Q.  What about playing singles and doubles?  The men don't do it.  You seem to do it a lot.  Does it tire you out?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  This is only my third tournament I played this year in doubles.  So, it hasn't been that heavy schedule as in the previous years.  I'm getting older, too, so it's not like, you know, some of the younger players they play both every week.  If you make it into the semis or finals every single tournament, it becomes difficult.  So...  We'll see.  Just, you know, early in the season.  You're still up to it.  We'll see what the future will bring. 
 
Q.  That's what Stevenson was saying.  First time in her career she's making it to the 16s and quarters and she's playing doubles.  Maybe she's not ready for that.  Do you agree with that, maybe she should kind of tone it down a bit, get in better shape?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  That's very individual.  That's what she has to know.  Like you say, it's been the first time she's had success over a few weeks, a little period of time.  So, you know, it becomes harder, yeah, when you win a few matches in a row and you have to play singles and doubles.  It's not an easy task.  
 
Q.  Serena?  I mean, obviously I think you're 6-6 against you.  She's gotten you the last two times, I believe.  What do you have to do to change that up? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, it's, you know, it was close the last time we played and I just, you know, am looking forward every time.  Those players, they bring the best out of me and that's what you look forward to at an event like here.  You know, it's a great event.  You have to know that if you get into the quarters, you can't choose the opponent anymore.  They all got to play well.   
 
Q.  Do you feel to be No. 1 on the women's side you have to live, breathe, eat tennis?  Or is it possible to, obviously take the tennis very seriously, but have a life also, some semblance of a life? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  You got to set your priorities.  You know, if you do that well, if you balance your life, private life and tennis, still trying to balance everything.  You know, it's not the easiest thing to do in the world.  But I think, you know, a lot of the time you learn and you set your goals and try to work on them and it's not always going to work out.  You're always going to make mistakes.  But you got to learn from them and try not to do them again.  
 
Q.  Was Sergio here today watching?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I think he's home.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT