US OPEN
August 29, 2001
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Martina. 


Q.  In the current issue of Time Magazine, it talks about the back-biting in the WTA.  "The World Wrestling Federation has to script this kind of bad-mouthing.  On the women's tour, it's as common as a backhand down the line."  I wanted to give you a chance to respond. 

MARTINA HINGIS:  On what? 

Q.  Being a trash-talking queen.  And has the WTA become like the World Wrestling Federation, if that is what it takes to generate the interest?  Is that a fair assessment?

MARTINA HINGIS:  I think I'm here to play tennis, especially at this tournament.  I always had those intentions.  I think at the end of the day, we all are here to play this tournament.  It's a great event.  I always had great relationship.  I'm very professional with the sisters. 

Q.  Are you sick?

MARTINA HINGIS:  A little bit.  I got a cold.  Too much air-conditioning in this building.  That's why I tried to keep it a little shorter today on the court.  Still got doubles on.

Q.  How do you feel first round?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Played good tennis.  Didn't lose too many games.  Maybe I was a little nervous going into today's match against her.  But came out pretty good. 

Q.  What do you think about 32 seeds?

MARTINA HINGIS:  I think for me it really doesn't make a big difference.  You know, it's nice.  You get to play the top players in the fourth round.  Somebody like Lina Krasnoroutskaya, she can play really good tennis, be dangerous in the first or second round already. 

Q.  Has your mother worked with her?

MARTINA HINGIS:  No, she didn't.

Q.  What's going to be the single best thing of playing doubles with Jennifer?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I think we know each other's game really well.  Every time she played against me in the doubles, she played very good.  Since Anna told me last Monday she couldn't play here, so the first option was like, "Okay, I've got to get a doubles partner. " I didn't want to play just anybody.  The first pick was Jennifer, if she wasn't playing with anyone.  During the day she agreed to play.  I was very happy about it.  We were excited to play, go out there. 

Q.  Did she agree right away or did she hesitate?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, went through kind of a lot of people.  At the end of the day I called and left a message that I was excited after everything was done because I didn't have anybody's number.  She was in New Haven.  I couldn't call her.  I mean, she might have been on court.  It sometimes is easier, goes faster through agents.  We practiced the other day.  It was good.  Good atmosphere.

Q.  Are you fighting a fever at all or just a cold?

MARTINA HINGIS:  No fever, just cold, sore throat when I woke up.

Q.  Did you feel it on the court today or did you feel pretty good out there?

MARTINA HINGIS:  In the morning I felt a little weak, but that's it.  No excuse.  I still have to play the match and get the day over with.  I was very happy.  Just went boom, boom, boom today. 

Q.  Will you see a physician to get checked out?  Any antibiotics?

MARTINA HINGIS:  I don't like pills, to take anything.  Just like Tylenol, that's it.  Just lots of fluid, drink. 

Q.  Are you in general where you want to be at this early stage of the tournament?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Not like this (laughter). 

Q.  The way you're hitting the ball. 

MARTINA HINGIS:  No, in general I think there's still things you want to improve on.  I think I served a lot better.  Like I said the other day, I'm not going to hit a hole through anybody.  I think I had a very consistent serve today that was also very important because they always puts me in a great position.  Didn't make any errors basically.

Q.  When you're stuck in traffic, is it cool to go by a huge billboard and see yourself?

MARTINA HINGIS:  It's been like this the last three years.  It feels great.  I kind of like the picture, too, for the first time (laughter).  We shot those pictures in Zurich actually.  I had fun doing that.  It's something different, like holding the ball behind.  I liked them.

Q.  Do you have a Visa card?

MARTINA HINGIS:  I better be quiet (laughter). 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT