WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2001
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Martina Hingis.  
 
 
Q.  What went wrong?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, what went well?  Not much.  No, I wasn't really able to practise last week that much.  I had a little tendonitis in my back, in my lower back.  I was more or less only able to play from like standing.  In the match, you have to move around, and that's a little bit more difficult.  
 
Q.  You were injured then?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I still tried to hit.  I still played the movements I could do, yeah.  But I had a hard time.  I thought it's going to get better.  I had treatment.  I didn't want to miss Wimbledon.  Yeah, it's behind me.  
 
Q.  It seemed a little odd to see somebody wearing a long-sleeved shirt on such a warm day.  Was it a fashion statement or therapeutic advantage to wearing that today?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I think some of the people have seen me a couple days ago at adidas.  I did an appearance, an appearance at Roehampton.  It was a new shirt for Wimbledon.  Normally it's cooler here these days, but it was very warm today. 
 
Q.  How does this defeat compare to the one against Dokic two years ago?  Is it harder to take?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  These are different reasons why.  I wasn't really able to move.  Yesterday, I got a little better.  Today, I was just afraid of moving.  I didn't exactly now how far can I go.  Against any player these days you have to just be able to run.  She took advantage of it.  She played well. 
 
Q.  When did you first feel the injury?  Was it during the match?  Practise? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, it started like in the beginning last week.  I had acupuncture in my lower back.  It got better.  But still, it was too short a recovery time to really heal it.  Also practise, I mean, you have to practise before Wimbledon.  
 
Q.  Was there any time in the match, during the match, that you thought you don't have a chance today, it wasn't going to work out?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, once you lose the first set and you're losing 3-Love, I mean, that doesn't look very rosy out there anymore.  You know, you never know.  She could  -- I felt like I wasn't playing well, but she hit some great shots.  You know, she was just better today.  I mean, there's no excuse.  Whether you're injured or not, if you go out there, if you step out there, you just play. 
 
Q.  Did you actually think about two years ago when you were out there?  It's the same court. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, it seems like either I do really well here or I lose first round now.  No, I mean, it's just a different opponent.  Like I said, two, three days ago, I didn't know exactly if I was going to come here at all.  I tried.  I did everything I could.  It came out this way.  Once you're out there, you don't think about it.  I mean, it's a great court.  I had great experiences on that court.  
 
Q.  You also will lose your No.  1 ranking.  Does it feel like an era has ended or do you still feel capable of being part of the top?  Does it hurt not to be No.  1 anymore?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Where did that one come from?  
 
Q.  Does it hurt not to be No.  1 anymore after this tournament. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I don't think it will happen.  
 
Q.  Could be. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  But it's not there yet.  Venus still has to win this tournament, I think.  
 
Q.  Do you still feel No.  1 after this tournament, after this half year?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  You know, if she takes over, she deserves it.  She had a bad loss last week  -- well, at the French Open.  I mean, it showed my consistency that I always was at the top spot because there was always a different player who was No.  1 or who always played well at the big tournaments like the Grand Slams.  But it was always a different player who beat me in the semis or in the finals.  But I was always there with the top.  Maybe sometimes I always felt like maybe the second.  Because I was No.  1, I was always there.  That's why the ranking system is there.  That's what it's there for.  
 
Q.  Have you considered at all maybe taking six weeks off, eight weeks off?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Now I have five weeks off till the next one. 
 
Q.  I mean, to get healthy, maybe get a little bit of fire, passion back? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I think like always I had little ups and downs in my career.  Downs were like I dropped to No.  2.  Yeah, big deal.  Like right now I know sometime, you just need some time to recover, your body and soul.  Now I will have the time to do it.  We'll see where I go.  I go home to Switzerland and then prepare myself for the hard court season already.  I have definitely some time now.  
 
Q.  When you went into the match today, did you think you were likely to lose or did you think you had a reasonable chance of winning, despite the injury?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I knew I had a chance against Virginia.  I mean, if I had to play some other player, like I said, I wouldn't even have come here.  I just tried to do my best.  I thought maybe it will be good enough.  Once I get past the first round, I have a chance to go along, everything gets better, my mental situation, just the view of the court and everything.  But, you know, I played it, I tried.  Now it's behind me.  Next time I will be definitely better prepared.  If something like that happens, I just have to, you know, decide beforehand whether it's a good idea to come or not.  
 
Q.  You said your mental situation.  What would you say is your mental situation?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  It's frustrating.  If you want to go out there, practise, you know it's a Grand Slam coming up, and you can't run.  I mean, that's the only thing.  If I can't play one, two days, I want to do something.  I want to be able to move and run.  If something hurts, bothers you, even if it's a little thing, it's still disappointing. 
 
Q.  You feel like otherwise, except for the way you feel about your body, it's okay?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I mean, otherwise I'm fine, yeah.  I don't have a mental problem, no. 
 
Q.  Was your mother here today?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Didn't you see her?  
 
Q.  I didn't.  Have you spoken to her since?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yes. 
 
Q.  What did she say?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  The things I've said.  I mean, "You tried, you tried your best.  Now it's over.  You have to decide what you're doing next."  
 
Q.  It's been ten Grand Slams since you won in Australia.  How do you explain that failure when it comes to Grand Slams?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I don't think it's such a big failure.  Like I said before, there was always one player who was better than me at the end, whether it was Lindsay in '98, Serena for a while, Venus; French Open, Mary played a great tournament.  Now it's Jennifer.  It's always the one player who I have to be able to beat at the end.  Hopefully, you know, I'll be able to do it again.  
 
Q.  The longer that goes on, the more frustrating it must be for you. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Not at all.  I had a great beginning of the year.  I beat both sisters.  I know if I'm a hundred percent, I can go out there and beat anybody.  That's a great feeling to have.  Not many players have that.  You've seen other players having ups and downs.  I mean, that's a very natural, normal thing.  
 
Q.  Given the weather is so good here, are you going to be hanging around or will you be leaving straightaway?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I don't think so.  I don't want to be staying here, even the weather is great.  I think other parts of the world is going to be good, too.  
 
Q.  A lot of speculation about your relationship with your lawyer friend.  Was he here today to support you?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  No. 
 
Q.  Would you be very surprised if Jennifer won the first three Slams of the year? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, no.  She's playing very well.  She looks fitter than ever.  She's very hungry.  She's believing in herself.  I wouldn't be surprised, no.  
 
Q.  Would you call her the favourite here or do you think Venus is still right there with her?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  No, I think Jennifer right now is the favourite definitely, yeah.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT