ROGERS CUP
July 29, 2016
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An interview with:   
MARTINA HINGIS   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You've been on the circuit a long time.  You're still playing really good.  Where do you see yourself in the next five years?  People have gone on into their 40s.  Do you see yourself doing that?  
MARTINA HINGIS: Honestly, at this point, no, especially after a match like today.   
I mean, obviously the last three years, especially the last couple years, have been unbelievable, probably more than what I expected coming back, especially in the doubles.  Playing with Sania last year, 41 matches in a row, who could have thought that, winning three Grand Slams.   
Yeah, I mean, there's obviously also tough days.  Not every day is sunshine.  Although the sun was out there today, it was beautiful, but it didn't go our way.   
Where I see myself is trying to finish this season first and see where it takes me from there.   
 Q.  What happened today?  Just not a good day?  
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, they played pretty solid.  But I think also obviously for everybody it's difficult, after Wimbledon, the first half of the season, the three Grand Slams are over, you have the hard court season ahead of you.  I think you could see like some of the matches, everyone is struggling, like, with putting the ball in the court.  It seems like the balls are light, they're flying, this and that.  You still find usually your way to get over it and find a solution to win.   
But they play really solid.  They play good.  They play aggressive.  They definitely made less unforced errors than we did.   
 Q.  As preparation for Rio, how did you find this week?  Do you feel you're ready now?  
MARTINA HINGIS: I mean, under the circumstances I think that's all I can do, right?  At this point all these options, I mean, definitely going there to talk to Timea.  I know she's excited to play.  That was a positive yesterday.  Let's go from there.   
But, I mean, obviously it was a disappointing three, four days.  All I can do, we had a great match yesterday, winning 1-1, just put things into my own hands, take charge.  All I can do is be supportive.   
I never played with Timea before.  You never know, some things can happen sometimes.  I'll try my best.   
 Q.  Was that a distraction, the three or four days that you were asked questions about Rio?  
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, obviously we're six hours behind here, so when things were already out there, everybody was talking, obviously I knew what's going on.   
But, yeah, I was definitely looking forward going to the Olympics, playing with Roger, with Belinda.  It's not happening.  Of course, it's disappointing.  It doesn't help when you're at a tournament, trying to do your thing, prepare the best you can for the Olympics, hoping to get a good start, get a leadup for that.   
Like I said, I had a good clay court season.  We played quarters in Wimbledon.  I feel like I'm in a way where I want to be, the best I can be.  Unfortunately didn't happen today.   
Like I said, new chemistry will come along, right, hopefully.   
 Q.  Will you play mixed?  
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, like I said, the Olympics, I don't really want to talk about it that much because all of these things are in the process.   
We're in Montréal playing a tournament which we just lost, so...   
 Q.  Are you ever tempted to play singles again?  
MARTINA HINGIS: Yes, a long time ago.   
 Q.  You're not tempted to try it at some point?  
MARTINA HINGIS: No, I'm not.   
 Q.  A question about maybe the story of the week so far in the singles tournament.  This young girl from Slovakia, Kucova.  
MARTINA HINGIS: She's not so young anymore.  She's 26.  In tennis, it's not that young anymore.   
It's quite a story.  We watched actually the match last night.  Incredible how she was able to hang in there and turn it around.  But it felt like the whole time Genie had the match in her favor and she had the cards in her hands, but kind of let it slip away.   
I believe in the 3-All game she held serve, a six - or seven-minute game.  You were like, She got it, then things turned around.  I think it took a lot of energy out of her just to keep going.   
An unbelievable week from Kristina, from playing quallies to quarterfinals, the first time in her tennis career, it's amazing, yeah.   
 Q.  About Eugenie Bouchard, after a magnificent 2014 year, a little slump, but she seems to be coming back.  
MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, no, it's good to see her playing better again definitely.  She's still got a few steps to go to get where she was.  But it will definitely be nice to see her back in form.  I mean, she's a great player to watch.   
Yeah, she had her success.  I mean, I think she is getting better coping with the tensions and pressure.  I think everybody has to go through that stage.  I think she won't make the same mistakes again.   
 Q.  Olympics, but different, not tennis.  What are you looking forward to in the Olympics outside of tennis?  What are you looking to see in sports or in Rio itself?  
MARTINA HINGIS: Honestly, I don't know how far away things are from each other.  I haven't really looked up the different sports.  But one of the favorites to see is always the 100-meter run, that's athletics.  If I would be able to get to see that, yeah, that's one of the highlights of the Olympics.  So anything concerning athletics.   
I obviously love horses.  The show jumping event, I'm sure it's pretty exciting.  Steve Guerdat won last time, he got the gold medal.  As a Swiss, it's nice to see him compete and do well, the whole team.   
Yeah, so we'll see.  I think everything that you get to see at that level at the Olympics is already extraordinary.  Sometimes it's not so easy to get tickets.  For us as athletes, I think you have to, like, ask in advance.  I haven't been since '96 so I don't know how it works these days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT