TMS - ROME
May 18, 2001
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.


Q.  You seem to be a little tired.  You seemed not to move quickly as usual on the court.  This was my impression. 

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, well, it's difficult to come back from a night match and playing Mauresmo, but she also made me run a lot.  I mean, it was  -- mentally it was maybe more of a difficult match to only stay in it.  I had my chances, so I knew I sometimes didn't make them, especially in the beginning, first game already.  And, well, then it's hard to get into the game because you never know what's going to happen.  But, yeah, she really played well when she needed to. 


Q.  It's the first time that she beat you in two sets.  Do you think that she had another step since last week?

MARTINA HINGIS: I think I didn't play my best today.  I mean, last week I definitely was there from the beginning and then I let it go, and this time it was very even.  I just  -- mentally, I didn't, you know, have the energy to really go out there and fight.  It was difficult.  We played a lot of tennis, three tournaments, and we always play each other.  So it's, you know, the same players now over and over on clay and, you know, I'm looking forward to the French.  I'll have a week off and I played a lot of tennis.  So now it's good.  I'm ready for the French. 


Q.  Do you regard this as a setback for your preparations for the French, not getting to the final or winning here?

MARTINA HINGIS: No, not at all.  Definitely it's frustrating to lose, and twice against the same player, but I know she's tough to beat.  But against her you have to be 100 percent and I wasn't today.  And I know the reasons, and now I just have to work on those and, you know, next time, next chance. 


Q.  Which part of her game do you think she improved?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, maybe she didn't miss as many returns as she did the first time I played her and also last week.  But I think that's the confidence, that's the attitude you have if you keep winning.  It's just, you know, the confidence is there on your side, and you know you can step it up if you need to. 


Q.  And what about your confidence?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I felt at the end I was able to turn it around, especially after she had the matchpoint.  Then I just give away three easy points in the tiebreaker.  That was just because I was, yeah, tired.  She's physically  -- obviously, you know against her you have to play every point and she doesn't give you too much.  She has great shots, then she misses, but you have to take advantage.  She's always a little bit up and down, and so was I today.  And once I held the serve, 6-all, and the tiebreak was just I didn't play very well.  It was like always two points, three points her, it was back and forth.  It was just, yeah...


Q.  What about the fact that you had to play last night and come out today, is that something that detracted from your performance?

MARTINA HINGIS: No, I had enough time and I had a good night's sleep.  But still, like I said, mentally it's draining, you play a night match and I played very well.  So I had the confidence.  But going out there, I wasn't  -- it's like you shouldn't get distracted by anything, and that's the way the game is played.  And I definitely  -- that wasn't the reason.  I had my chances today, I just  -- sometimes it was just difficult, or she played very well when I was able to make them.  I just didn't do it. 


Q.  Why were you so tired?  Because of last week, because of the heat?

MARTINA HINGIS: No, just the whole two, three weeks and the preparation for the French.  You always have that in your mind, and it's just  -- to finish these tournaments and to play the matches, it definitely  builds you up physically and mentally.  But like I said, I didn't have it today.  But hopefully at the French Open.   The hardest part about it is just to keep going every match, every single time, to get out there and just be hungry to win.  That's like probably the biggest thing right now, I have to improve that.  Physically I'm out there and mentally. 


Q.  Do you think that Dokic has a game that could possibly test Amelie really hard in the final?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think it depends on how Amelie is going to play.  Definitely she had an easy match today, 6-3, 6-2, easy win.  It was still hard-fought, some of the games, I watched everything because I played after them.  But I think she has the attitude, she has the hunger to win and she could definitely give her a hard time.  I think definitely Amelie right now has the momentum going for her.  She's 33 matches to 2 this year, so I tell you, it's pretty much on her side.  But she could definitely give her a fight, yes. 


Q.  Is she one of the biggest hitters? Where does she rate among the big hitters in women's tennis right now at the moment?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, she has very fast wrist on the backhand.  She can definitely speed it up.  I wouldn't necessarily say she's the biggest hitter, but she can add that top spin on, and she uses the power of the other ones.  It's not that she does it herself, but if you hit it hard, she can even go faster and that's her, you know, biggest weapon, yeah. 


Q.  Your game or your results at the end, how much of that was influenced by problems you had in your service?  You were not serving every time as good as you usually do.

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, sometimes when I change the racquet I double-fault because I have no feel on the serve with the new racquet.  But otherwise I think my serve has improved overall in the last two months I'd say, and it's definitely a big part of the game, especially on clay.  But, I mean, you can't go for aces on clay, so I know I'm not gonna be hitting aces.  So I just have to, with my serve, get the advantage.  That's what I'm working on, get the advantage and get aggressive into the point.  But I know I'm not the most powerful server out there. 


Q.  Are you going to directly to Paris?

MARTINA HINGIS:  I'm going home first.  I go to Switzerland and train there and, yeah, train with my mom, and we'll see.  I go Thursday night already to Paris, and then David will be there again.   And, yeah, hopefully, you know, this time I had great matches, I made some experiences, and at the French Open I'll take it just step by step, match by match, yeah. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT