TMS - ROME
May 17, 2001
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Martina, please. 


Q.  Was it harder than you expected today, Martina?  

MARTINA HINGIS: Not really.  I expected her to do well, but I saw, you know, the first set was very physical.  Also she was like always having problems with her legs and everything.  So did I, but I think people could notice less that I had problems compared to her.  I was actually going out there playing her, I took her very serious, so it was.  And I'm happy to have, you know, the six straight games.  That was pretty good.  I wish it wasn't 3-0, yeah.


Q.  What problems, Martina? Were you cramping up a little bit? What were the problems with your legs?

MARTINA HINGIS: Getting a little bit tight, but not problems.  I mean, problem is like if you get, you know, tender or something.  I felt it, of course, they got a little heavier, especially the one leg where you always put a little more weight on which is the dominant.   But so could I see, you know, she was having the same problems.  We had long rallies back and forth, back and forth.  So like I said, it was quite physical, yep.   I'm gonna have a nice massage and go to bed early.  That's what I do tonight. 


Q.  You don't feel tempted to go out and see Rome?

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, we went yesterday, with Sanex.  We had the two hours of shopping.  I did, like, three, three and a half I think total.  I saw like two hours, two shops, not even.


Q.  Did you buy something nice?

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, you'll see in Paris.  (Laughing.) I had definitely got some things, and it's not that they made me buy, you know, the things, but I had great deals and they were very welcoming, so it was nice.  I would have gone anyway.  I mean in Rome is great shopping.  Also we went to the Coliseum because I saw the movie, and also David never has been in Rome before.  And I've seen it from outside like four or five years ago, but I could  -- you know, at that time I was 16, you have other interests.  But this time after watching the movie, it was very impressive to go inside and see.  Especially because I play in those arenas and you have the spectators.  And that was very motivating, that one sentence in the movie, that, "Get the crowd on your side." I kept thinking about it all the time.  It was very, very nice to be there, and you can imagine the crowd screaming.  And it must be amazing.  


Q.  But what about when you lost matches in the Coliseum?

MARTINA HINGIS: (Indicating slicing her neck.)


Q.  Did you think about that, too?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, in a way, yeah, every loss, it's a death fight.  But, no, it's not tragical anymore, yes.   But it's still, it's like I don't have to survive out there, but it's still some players definitely.  Today you fight for the money so you survive.  But, yeah, you survive lively, I mean to still be alive.  It's a lot different but still the same outcome. 


Q.  Does it get boring to play week after week with the same players?

MARTINA HINGIS: No.  As long as I win, no. 


Q.  What are your thoughts on playing Aranxta?

MARTINA HINGIS: I never played her before.  Don't know what to expect.  (Laughing.)  Yeah, obviously it's  -- she's a great clay court player, I mean very smart, very clever.  She uses 200 percent of what she can play.  And it's every time you go out there, you have to, you know, be ready and expect her at the best because every time she changes.  You can beat her 16 times or 14 times straight like I did, and you lose the 15th time.  So I definitely learned from that.  That reminds me of one sentence, like he said yesterday, because Borg kept beating Vytas Gerulaitis 17 straight times.  He was like, "No one beats Vytas Gerulaitis 17 straight times."  And he won the 18th time. But, yeah, he was not playing...  Aranxta is always the same, the same... Whatever.


Q.  Did that ever happen to you, losing a match or losing a point, where you're saying, "I'm losing $100,000 because of that"? It never crossed your mind?

MARTINA HINGIS: One time in Hopman Cup it did, yeah. 


Q.  Hopman Cup?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Yes.  "I'm losing the diamond ball for over 35,000, and $100,000," yes.  Actually, twice.  In an exhibition, too, it happened to me.   But not when I'm playing matches like this.  It's just you want to go out there and win, yes.  Four matchpoints.  Yeah...


Q.  Is it a special motivation to have a chance of revenge against Amelie in the semis maybe?

MARTINA HINGIS: Maybe, if we both get there, yes.  I mean, actually because last night I watched Jennifer and today Amelie also was, like, on and off, had some, you know, little bit  -- it's like you said, on and off playing the same players week in and week out, it's sometimes a little bit tiring.  But more mentally than physically sometimes because you have to play them over and over.  But definitely I'm looking for revenge if I get the chance, yes.  Especially I would love to win a tournament before going into the French Open.  So that would be nice. 


Q.  If you beat Aranxta, you're seeded to become the third highest prize money winner ever in women's tennis.  Does that still mean a lot to you?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, you always like breaking records.  I don't know about that one, but it sounds pretty good, yeah.  (Laughing.) It's all about the money. (Laughing.)  No, I mean, actually I would love to break the other one where I think I'm fourth behind Steffi, Martina and Chrissy, the other one on being the longest streak of No. 1.  That's the one I still would like to break, yes.  It's amazing, Aranxta is 14 years on the Tour and I'm only half of the years and have the same amount already.  It's  -- you can see how the business has grown and it's just... It's very intimidating, yes, but...


Q.  After Sanchez, you have Mauresmo.  What do you think about that?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, we just said that. 


Q.  Do you regard Jennifer now as one of your top rivals?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, you know, yesterday  -- like I said, it's very difficult, you know, to maintain the level you have.  I mean, you might play a great week and the next week  -- she played very well, though, this year so far.  But I think it's a little unfortunate loss against Kuti Kis last night.  Especially you could see, she came back, she fought back, then losing in the tiebreaker, it's not probably the greatest thing to have.  But it happens, and now I'm sure she's gonna focus on the French Open.  And, yeah, definitely she's the one, the sisters, you never know.  They haven't played on clay or not as much.  Especially Serena hasn't played at all, Venus a little bit.  So...


Q.  Do you think you have more time off now that your mother is not around, or you have less time off?

MARTINA HINGIS: Less time off.  (Laughing.) Because, yeah, she and Mario would take a lot of things away from me  - like make it easier for me.  You know, they did most of the business, Mario.  My mom did the stringing, she did the laundry, she did everything outside.  And I'm  -- sometimes I almost got bored.   So now it's more challenging.  I have to think about a lot of things, and it definitely keeps me occupied during the whole day, yes.


Q.  Is it more stressful?

MARTINA HINGIS: More stressful, but I enjoy the challenge.  It's like being responsible for myself, and I'm coming up with the results I had so far.  You know, every victory makes me happy.  And I'm definitely enjoying what I do, and it's more and more things.  And, you know, the way I look at a lot of things is definitely different.  You see the beauty in every little thing.  Yeah, like the hotel is so nice, when you see the whole city.  I wouldn't think like that before, definitely not. 


Q.  Do you still call her every night saying, "Today I won, today I lost"?

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah.


Q.  "What should I do tomorrow?"

MARTINA HINGIS: I'm not asking what I should do tomorrow, but we talk about the match.  I'm sure she has seen it.  But against Panova, she didn't even bother, she had confidence in me.  So, no...   But, yeah, so now we talk like mother and daughter and the coach.  I mean, she's always going to be the person I rely upon the most.  I mean, I have help from David and, you know, it's great having him around.  But still it's me making the decisions, and I would call her all the time, you know.  So, no, we have a very good relationship.  Maybe even better than we had, yes. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT