TMS - ROME
May 15, 2001
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Would you say that your life and career have changed directions now that you are not coached by your mum?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, it's old news now, old news by now.  I've played some tournaments already without her.  Like I said, I'm daily talking to her about different things, and, you know, also about my game definitely.  She's still the biggest help and, you know, she saw me play and we talk about it. 


Q.  Your serve seemed to be giving you a little bit of trouble.  She had break points quite often against it?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think I served quite okay besides the first game.  I still won that one, I was quite happy. Otherwise, I just went for it more compared to the other matches when I played in Berlin last week.  And also I feel more confident, and I just try a lot of different things.  I mean, I have to get myself, you know, together, and now is the chance to prepare myself, and definitely against players like her.  That's why sometimes I got like upset, because I didn't really 100 percent play my game, but I went to  -- I just stepped it up, was more aggressive, that's one of the things -- also my serve, tried to be more aggressive and still needs some improvement, you know...


Q.  So it was a day where you could afford to experiment then?

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, little bit I think.  I felt like every time I really needed it, I was able to step it up and it came out good at the end.  It was like the third game it took forever in the first set.  But after I won that, I think it gave me a little edge, you know, especially 4-1.  I was always up, so that felt pretty good. And in the second set, I could have been up 5-2 and I lost that game being up 40-love.  It was a little upsetting, but, hey, it happens, and I still won 6-3.  So it was, yeah, an experimental day a little bit.  (Laughing.)


Q.  Martina, what happened in Key Biscayne, did that leave any scars?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, as soon as, you know, I did that, it definitely wasn't a pleasant experience.  I wouldn't want to do ever something like that again.  If I have to, you know, I have to.  But it's not something I enjoyed doing, and I tried to forget about it as soon as I could.   It's now  -- now my focus is tennis, and that's the premiere thing and I'm trying to get ready for the French Open.  So, no, I don't think about that anymore, it's a closed case and I'm very happy that it's done and over with.


Q.  Pretty hard time for you, though, wasn't it?

MARTINA HINGIS: Because it was like you, the press, always came up with it so I was reminded of it every single time I did the press conference.  I still had to play my match, it was during the Indian Wells and Key Biscayne tournaments so it made it more difficult.  Hey, I still made both tournament semifinals, I didn't play the best tennis of my life.  But right now I feel I'm getting there again. 


Q.  How frustrating is it not to win a tournament since you had been so used to it, and how important will it be to win here before the French Open?

MARTINA HINGIS: It would be a great thing to win here.  I mean, I played -- since we started to play on clay, I played Amelia, made the finals in Charleston, was very close to win there sometimes against the top players, a few points aside.  In the Australian Open, I was able to do it like against Serena and Venus, lost in the finals, but still I felt very comfortable and confident going out there against the top players, and I still do.  Especially now that on clay I think I have a much better chance than I ever had to win the French Open.  So, you know, I just take it match by match and try to get myself in the best position I can, and try to work on my game on a daily basis.  Physical part is very important.  So I'm looking forward to it.  But going into the French Open with a victory will definitely help.  If it doesn't happen, I'm not gonna put myself under pressure.   Still, I think it's difficult because tournaments like Berlin or here, it takes  -- it drains you.  It's very draining because you have four matches in, you know, four days, which are very difficult, like one after the other.  And they're more and more difficult.  At the French Open, it's a good thing, you play every second day so it gives you more time to relax and restore your energy. 


Q.  While you were playing on Center Court, on Court 6 Navratilova was playing a doubles match with Sanchez.  Do you feel in any way that you have to kind of replace the image that Martina has in everyone's hearts? Do you feel any rivalry with her because of this?

MARTINA HINGIS: (Laughing.) No, I don't think so.  I don't have to replace anybody's, you know  -- she's had her career, I have mine.  I mean, it's  -- but the name not many things are similar.  She's a great legend.  Of course it's gonna be hard, you know, to make up for her name.  But, I mean... No.  I mean, it's great that she's still playing, you know.  If she has fun, then whatever.  But I have to focus on my career and not someone else's. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT