TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 29, 2001
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions please. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Didn't have that much media since I won a Grand Slam the last time. 
 
Q.  Looked like she served effectively and in the tiebreak she attacked your second serve.  What do you think the difference in the match was today?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, somehow I didn't really get the beginning.  That was like-- slow start and I had chances and she would always win the games at the end.  It was kind of weird, she didn't really give me too much timing.  It was like she hit a winner and she made stupid mistakes.  Then second, I slowly found myself in the game.  I think I played better definitely the best I can, but well, actually I see some kind of improvement through that match in the second set.  I broke her to be up serving for the set.  There she was going with the wind and she played well that game.  But, I had the set point that is maybe a little bit there I had a chance.  But she served well in that one, I think. 
 
Q.  You had some success coming into the net.  Do you look at it when you play better in the future, that you need to take more risk or  --
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, after which shot, you know, sometimes you have to-- like when do I attack her, especially off the second, maybe sometimes I should do more out of it or when I had the chance, but it was difficult.  Maybe she got a little bit more tired towards the end of the second and played a little slower.  So once we got into the rally I felt more comfortable, but getting into it was a problem sometimes.  
 
Q.  Was that one of her better serving matches she has played against you?   Looked like her first  --
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Like you say she didn't serve like that hard sometimes.  But very effective and in the wind, it is hard to return when the ball is going all over the place. 
 
Q.  Technique-wise, anything you can do to get the speed of your serve up?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I mean, against her it is like you have a lot of pressures, so I mean, it wouldn't be a problem to get the speed on the serve, but if it is going to be in, that is the second question.  I serve I think like 10-5. I could serve like that but not all the time.  In the wind, it was just more effective for me I thought to get the first serve in. 
 
Q.  Do you think you need more weapons to beat the power players?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, more weapons, I think there is not a shot I can't hit, but they don't allow me to hit them all the time.  So, that is like the problem I have to get them playing at first and then to make something of it.  But the first shot is always who gets the first opportunity.  That is the question. 
 
Q.  What were you thinking when the score got to 5-1 in the first set and the balls were rocketing for winners on the line?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, in a way, it is like I had chances.  I had breakpoints and I had game points on my serve.  She was like 40-15 and all of a sudden it was deuce.  It went back and forth that second game especially.  And I lost it.  It was like okay.  I felt a little bit lost; what do I do to exactly, make the points because I didn't feel like I was under control.  It was-- like a matter of fact-- like her doing the winners and mistakes.  
 
Q.  Do you remember being 5-3 up in the tiebreaker?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I played so many tiebreakers in my life.  I don't remember. 
 
Q.  Wondering what your tactical plan was in this tiebreaker at 5-3.
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Who was serving? 
 
Q.  You were serving.
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  No, I was serving at 5-4.  
 
Q.  Second serve?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, that was like so bad. She hit a winner.  Well, there, I should have hit-I was going for a safe serve and didn't hit it in.  Second was too easy and it was up 6-5 she served another good one so 6-All, then it was over. 
 
Q.  Does the fact she is really ripping the second serve returns make you take a little bit it off it?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Especially in the wind like today it is like I would serve maybe higher percentage of second serve like harder because she made me hit it harder and it was still, you know, I tried to go for more on her body so she don't have the angles, but she would always  -- especially in the second set she slowed down a little bit.  First was like more difficult, what am I doing, what do I do.  
 
Q.  Do you feel a little pressure that Venus is now pushing for that No. 1 ranking?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, not really because she has been pushing for a while.  But I think now I think she might get to the second place now probably. 
 
Q.  But I meant if she continues playing like this and defends her titles?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well she always comes up with some great tournaments so the other question - can she keep it up; can her body keep it up.  You see all the bandages like the wrist and legs and last week she retired, so you don't know.  I don't know.  It is about her.  But if she plays well, it is definitely going to be a race. 
 
Q.  Do you feel you have to improve your serve to keep with her or is it good enough as it is?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I mean, everything, it is like the whole game, you constantly have to improve with your game.  It is everything. 
 
Q.  If you would have won that second set would you fancy your chances in the third?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I definitely see my chances higher than hers in the third, but, you know, one point missing there and  -- yeah, so, next time.  We played like already 18 matches with each other it is like, wow, only in four years, five years, probably. 
 
Q.  With all the controversy surrounding the Williams family this week was that distracting to the other players?  Lindsay Davenport called it somewhat of a circus act.  Did you find it somewhat distracting?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, it was different definitely because you pick up the newspaper in the morning and  -- but in the other way it is like okay what is the next step; what do they talk about now and what is Richard's next comment.  
 
Q.  But Martina I know you had a rough day but you made a strong comment and said that there was not racism...
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Because I could say like yeah I am only surrounded by Americans up there, so what can I say, every time I go on the court, I could say it is racism against me because, you know, the public is out there, the crowds and the fans are usually for Americans, if I play here in this country so it is like you got the sisters, you got Lindsay, you got Monica, you got Jennifer and half of Mary is American too, so like I am standing alone up there  the only European. 
 
Q.  It certainly is a legitimate question to ask how tough it is for a non-American to play so many tournaments week after week in America.  But you did say that there was some racism and in particular you said it was an advantage to being black.  Could you take a moment and explain, Martina, what you meant by that?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I think because when they started, I mean, everyone was like okay, like when I started I was like who is she, what are they doing, what is so special about her, that she is so good.  It was the same thing with them.  It is the way they behave and everything, that is how the Tour and the girls take them -- the Tour takes them with them.  It is how people react to certain things, the manners, the behavior, that is I think, but well, because people are definitely afraid if they say something wrong what is going to come out in the press. 
 
Q.  But how is that an advantage to being African American on the Tour?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Because you are not allowed to say anything in a way.  
 
Q.  But people have been very critical of the Williams, the press has been very critical of them.
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, maybe because one match but not  -- when she won, you know, when she was playing well, winning the Grand Slams and the Olympics so it was a big hype around them.  It depends on the results, which is sports. 
 
Q.  Every tournament has distractions but this time one of your potential distractions sits in Miami Dade County Jail.  Do you think that affected you at all today?
 
THE MODERATOR:  Due to legal and security reasons Martina won't be commenting on that. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  This is like educating here.  It is like what is she going to say. 
 
Q.  Lindsay suggested that maybe Richard is a bit of a burden to Venus and Serena by the things that he says.  Do you agree with that?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Sorry, again.  
 
Q.  Lindsay kind of suggested that maybe Richard with some of the comments that he makes is kind of a burden to Venus and Serena because they have to deal with the consequences of what he says.  Do you agree with that?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I think it puts more pressure on them.  It is not themselves who would maybe always speak up.  But he was saying from the first moment on they started playing they are going to be No. 1 and 2 and they are going to win and they are the best players in the world out there.  It is about them.  I think like when I started it was like nobody  -- it was like my results which counted and people would react up and to the results but they haven't until last year haven't reached that much.  Every now and then they played great at the tournaments, I mean, they obviously have a great game to be up there.  But it is like bring the results. 
 
Q.  In all the years you are on the pro circuit did you ever have a match where a player hit 51 winners against you?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, if you look like Venus or Serena, it might happen.  If I be that tall and muscular so maybe I would have some more winners too.  But from my type of game it is more waiting 'til my chance comes.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT