TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 26, 2001
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question for Martina, please.


Q.  It was a good test out there, wasn't it?  Magui game you a lot of groundstroking.

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, that's for sure.  Even like after the match, I walked in, she walked out already.  She was like, "It was a lot of running."  That's for sure.  I mean, especially her game, she hits a lot of topspin from the one side.  Then this low slides, where you definitely have to bend your knees, you know, to get under and hit the shots.  Either have no pace basically or you have to produce everything yourself.  It's very tiring, especially in the heat today.  So...also, not the easiest part.


Q.  Did you think it was ever going to end when she saved about three match points?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I mean at the end I was like, "Okay, come on, I got to make this point otherwise I just, I don't know, shoot myself." No, then I really focus on that serve and it was a good one. 


Q.  What's your take on doubles? You think you'll come back to them?

MARTINA HINGIS: Me, doubles?


Q.  Yeah. 

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, not in the near future.  I don't see myself playing doubles.  I kind of like it not playing right now because I think  --.


Q.  Too tired?

MARTINA HINGIS: It takes a lot of energy, yeah.  Not only too tired, but the waiting around for doubles.  It's usually I go, if I have a match like this early, I would go out there and hit again.  But it's my timing, you know.  I tell the time, what time I want to go out there again and just hit or do whatever. But doubles, you just have to wait until --  it can get late all the time. 


Q.  With all the focus on the Williams girls and the Indian Wells episode, you kind of feel like you're slipping in here a little quietly this week? Do you like it?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I mean, I played yesterday on the Grandstand.  The fans were great.  I like Miami, I like playing here, and I have good memories of this tournament.  So I just take it easy, you know, and I mean it's been like that before, that they were, you know, it's  -- not even necessary then, but their father has been very outspoken.  It's just their mentality, it's just the way they function I guess. 


Q.  How's Anna Kournikova? I saw her walking with you somewhere over at the hotel.

MARTINA HINGIS: No. 


Q.  Do you know her? Of course you know her, don't you?

MARTINA HINGIS: I know her, but I didn't see her here, no.  It wasn't her. 


Q.  Does that bother you that the father did claim that there was a lot of racism directed to his family at Indian Wells?

MARTINA HINGIS: I wasn't there.  I didn't see the finals, just heard about it and it was on TV obviously.  But I definitely don't feel like it, that there is any racism on the Tour.  I mean it's a very international sport, and I even would say because, you know, they may be black they have a lot of other  - how do you say  - advantages to be, you know, where they are because they can always say it's racism or something like that, and it's not the case at all.  Not from my standpoint.  I don't care who, you know, who's on the other side, who I have to play, and I treat them with  -- definitely with respect.  It's a professional sport, and I mean they're good for the sport.  I like the girls.  Maybe, it's sometimes  -- he has said things which are not true, but I don't  -- I don't know about what the girls think about what he says, so it's hard to say.


Q.  Did you read the story that came out today?

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, I saw it.  I mean obviously it's part of my job to read things like that, and it's  -- because like today, I know I am going to be asked about it so I should know.  And, yeah, I think it's total nonsense to me. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT