AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2001
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Martina.  
 
 
Q.  You've beaten the girls for the first time in successive matches.  Must feel great. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I definitely do.  It's not over yet.  I mean, still, you know, we had to go out there and play the doubles, maybe one match too many today.  No, I came out there.  I mean, we both weren't for sure 100% after yesterday.  But I came out the better.  I'm very happy about the result.  I mean, you can't ask for more than beating Venus Williams 1-1.  Definitely a good score, yeah.  
 
Q.  Are you surprised it was that easy? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, from watching her the other matches, I knew she wasn't playing at her peak, that's for sure, but I didn't know how well could she go out there and play me.  Because, you know, the top players, they can always step it up generally.  I mean, I don't know what her strategy was exactly today.  Just probably, you know, break my rhythm, just try to attack.  But she was playing the balls when I made her play.  I just blocked it away very well and I passed her good.  That put pressure on her to take a high risk, then she started missing.  Plus the 78 percentage first serve, that helped definitely, too.  That was a lot better than yesterday in the second and third set.  
 
Q.  Did you go out and work on your serve after yesterday's match or go home and take a rest?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  No, I didn't serve as hard as yesterday.  I mean, sometimes I was up to over 160.  Today was all 130, 140, but all first serves.  She just couldn't attack me.  Yeah, that was the key, definitely, to always get in the play.  I knew that from the baseline I would, you know, out-rally her.  
 
Q.  Venus referred to your game as being sort of a counterpunching style. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  What she says about me?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I'm not going to overpower her, so I've got to have something.  You see Grosjean and Clement being in the semis at this tournament, so they're not the biggest hitters, biggest servers.  Yeah, definitely, I mean, what can I do against them?  So definitely I wait for my chance, yes.  
 
Q.  Are you surprised it's not Lindsay in the final again?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I think that was a big match for Jennifer beating Monica.  Definitely she got the confidence there.  Just had nothing to lose today.  Just had a day of rest.  And Lindsay, I don't think she was playing the best ever.  She showed, even last week in the finals against me, she didn't play that great.  I just let her basically come back into the match, which Jennifer didn't do.  You know, she just practiced a lot in December, as well.  I saw her every day at the courts.  You know, the hard work, we've been playing a lot in December, has paid off for both of us.  I mean just, you know, taking tennis as serious business.  Now we are both in the finals, so...  
 
Q.  Martina, these two girls have almost been laying ambush for you.  You've beaten them.  What have you done to make your level of fitness so good now?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  It's not only the fitness, it's the game has improved, especially from my part.  You know, they would sometimes overpower me, so I just couldn't keep the level throughout the whole match, which I showed, you know, definitely the determination at the end of yesterday's match was there, you know.  I still had give it a go.  Then I just pulled it out somehow.  With me it's never going to be the physical part because I'm not as tall or as big as them, which I never will be.  But, as I said, I have my own game plan, and that has really worked this time.  
 
Q.  You have a very good record against Jennifer Capriati, not just in Grand Slams, but all matches.  Do you think you're ready to step up for your sixth Grand Slam title against her?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I feel like I have the winning record.  But from the last two matches I've seen, you know, she's definitely in high form right now.  But, you know, hopefully, you know, the day of rest tomorrow will help me to really play well in the finals.  This is the fifth consecutive year here being in the finals and I think every time a different finalist.  No  -- yeah, I think so.  First year, Mary.  Second year, Mauresmo.  So, it's a challenge definitely which I don't want to lose.  I'm not going to underestimate her, that's for sure. 
 
Q.  I hear you get on quite well with Jennifer, spent time at her house and the like. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  We're in the same resort.  It's not that I spend some time in her house.  No, I see her basically every day when I'm there.  Then we both play the tournaments.  Not that much otherwise, no.  
 
Q.  Are you kind of glad that you don't have to play doubles anymore?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, you never like to lose.  In this case it was just, as I said, one match too many.  In a way I'm happy I don't have to play tomorrow, that's for sure.  But I still come out here and practice, you know, just loosen up, just take it easy tomorrow, yes.  
 
Q.  You probably lost the four last years at the French against opponents you were expected to beat.  Maybe you didn't take them quite as seriously, I don't know why.  Do you think a player like Jennifer fits into that category?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I played Mauresmo here the other year, and nobody expected her to be in the finals.  I beat her quite easily.  No, Jennifer, I always had so much respect for her.  Playing her is like watching a mirror.  That's what she said the first time we ever played.  As I said, I have a winning record against her, but she's one of these players I definitely have respect for.  When I was practicing with her in the past or so, you know, she knows every shot.  You just have to make her play.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like at Wimbledon last year when the Williams sisters sort of talked a lot about how maybe some of the players were intimidated by them, that they underestimated you a little bit?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  They underestimated me?  
 
Q.  They were saying  --?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Them, I don't think so.  Definitely not.  I mean, it's just they weren't that well-prepared for this tournament, especially Venus.  Serena still played Sydney or so, played a good match yesterday.  But Venus didn't play that well.  They're always saying, "Okay, we went to school."  Either you have to choose, go to school, play tennis.  You definitely can't do both.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like you've shown a little bit, even if you are the smaller player out there, that you can still outsmart somebody else?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I think I've shown that pretty much today, yes.  
 
Q.  Capriati feels as though she's stepped up her game, especially from last year where she lost to Lindsay in the semifinals.  Looking at her from the other side of the net, do you agree?  Do you feel she's fitter, faster, more confident?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  She always like these kinds of occasions.  She always played very well here in Australia, from what I remember.  It's just I think the court also suits her quite well.  It sets up nicely for her.  She has these big groundstrokes, especially the forehand.  Also today she served very well.  Every now and then she would double-fault, not get that many first serves in.  Today she had a very compact game, was there, ready, definitely.  I mean, if she's on a roll, she definitely can play very good tennis.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT