AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2001
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Martina, please.  
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Hi, I'm Martina Hingis.  I play for Switzerland.  
 
Q.  Martina, obviously that was the shortest win of any of the seeds so far.  How pleased were you with that?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think I played very well, very consistent.  You know, I came into this tournament with two victories, so I feel pretty confident.  And it was nice to be out there again and, well, I never played this girl before.  So I was kind of like,  "Okay, I have to check her out," in the beginning.  I didn't want to make any mistakes which were not necessary, and I served very well from the beginning on.  So that definitely helped me because I didn't feel that secure, you know, in the rallies because I don't know what was her better shot or anything.  So I'm very pleased with this win, definitely.  Yep.  
 
Q.  Did you watch any of the other matches today?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: I was at practice earlier.  I was out here at eleven and played for an hour, then I went back to the hotel and watched them on TV.  Then I was out here again for the night match.  So I watched the matches which were on TV.  I didn't see the rest, no.  Well, why? 
 
Q.  Did you see Venus' match?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, a little bit.  Yeah.  Those points which they showed.  Well, it's always tricky to play someone you don't know, especially for both of them.  They haven't played in a while.  Serena played last week.  So it's never an easy, you know, thing to go out there after a while and play somebody you don't know what to do and, you know, play a Grand Slam.  So I think she still, you know, pulled it out pretty easily at the end.  
 
Q.  Selena Roberts, New York.  Do you think you're a far different player than you were even this time last year? You go to the net more.  You seem to be trying different things.  Are you different?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I definitely worked on different parts of my game which would help me definitely to quicken up those points and do something different against the top players which are the Williamses or against Lindsay.  So that feels pretty good, you know, not only staying in the back but also every now and then come in.  It also, you have to get the confidence on getting up there.  So I was practicing it, and especially against those players which are lower ranked, you can try it out.  You feel safer with that.  
 
Q.  When you watched Venus today, did you notice she was having trouble with her dress?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I don't know if that's one of her creations, but... (Laughter.)  Well, she just got this deal, no, with Reebok, so they had to come up with something new.  I don't know if I would be able to wear something like that.  I'm very happy with my outfit.  So... 
 
Q.  Lisa Dillman, LA Times.  Have you ever wore something where it just did not feel right? Not like that, but it just didn't feel right, where after you said,  "Gee, I don't want to wear that again"?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: It happened a few times that I didn't feel comfortable with what I was wearing but not lately.  I mean, you learn what you have  -- what you can wear and what you can't and what feels more comfortable.  Especially the more you travel, the easier it gets because, you know, you just have black and white things which you can wash so they don't shrink.  It's like so many things which just  -- there are a few things you can actually travel with and wear occasionally.  Especially for tennis, I mean, you're out there sometimes for two, two and a half hours.  It could be so you definitely have to feel comfortable out there.  I'm definitely happy with adidas, with what they came up with so far.  I mean even like this time, you know, with the one sleeve, it covers the arm.  So if it's a little cooler out there, chilly.  So it's nice, comfortable.  
 
Q.  What about the tan lines?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, the sun wasn't out there, so not yet.  No.  (Laughing.) I'm trying to practice in just like the two sleeves, just regular shirts or something which  -- but I'm not a very tan person in general so... (Laughing.)  I'm just snow white from Switzerland.  
 
Q.  Jenny Magasi (phonetic) from The Australian. Do you have sympathy for people you beat, like the girl you beat today, do you have sympathy for that sort of player? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I see her every now and then at the Grand Slams so I knew who she was when I see her.  But I never played her before.  But I think this is business and this is not  you have to have sympathy for anybody.  You just go out there and do my job.  So I want to go out there and win.   Later that's a different story.  I mean off court is not the same thing as you're on court.  
 
Q.  Going back to your sleeves, would you have a preference over which sleeve is long and which sleeve is short?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I'm a righty so it's logical pretty much so I have the right sleeve for the serve and forehand.  Even sometimes my backhand down the line is not too bad.  But, no, it's  -- I don't know what they do with the lefties though, they have to make a special order I guess.  
 
Q.  Do you think it's possible to come back a little behind when the tennis was more creative? Because now everybody plays strong, strong, strong.  Do you think it's the material in the ball, it's a better material, if they do something and give to everybody more space for create creativity and not as strong?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Definitely it's part of the material, part of the balls, the surfaces.  But also just the human being gets stronger and taller and big are and in much better shape.  The girls and the guys are in much better shape than they used to be 10, 20 years ago.  So that's the main difference, I think.  Even Pete Sampras, when I played in the Arthur Ashe Day at the US Open, he had his wooden racquet.  He would still hit the serve 200 kilometers an hour with a wooden racquet which he used to play with when he was little.  So I think just everyone got so much stronger.  
 
Q.  It's the kind of play that the players waiting for the mistake of the other. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, not me.  I definitely don't have the patience for somebody else making the mistake, so... 
 
Q.  Hugo Ribeiro, Tenis Europeu.  With all the story around the Dokic story, I wonder you were also born in a different country than where you live now.  Was that question some time in your mind or did you discuss that with your family, playing for the country where you were born? Was that never a question?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: No, that was never a question.  I always said that I might have been born in Czechoslovakia but, you know, I always felt very good wherever I grew up in the country I played for, and there is no reason for me to even think about it, playing for a different country.  There are different reasons, I guess, why Jelena chose to go back there but in a way, it's the decision she made and I guess that's what she feels more comfortable with.  But it's not my case, no.  Well, with  -- just tennis is so international in general so I don't think at the end it matters really which country you play for or where you're from.  It's just, okay, you have to put something on the paper because you travel so much, you are in so many different countries, tennis is so popular.  So I think it's  -- I feel in a way also like I'm a world citizen, so I just have to feel fine in any country I play and just compete, always try to give the best. 
 
Q.  Martina, would you like perhaps a tougher opponent or tougher matches in the second or third round before you come up against the Williams sisters? Was it too easy today?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I played a lot of good matches last week and at Hopman Cup as well.  I think I had the right preparation to go into this tournament.  Actually, I'm pretty happy about my draw right now, just take it easy, you know, for a few days and hopefully I can continue the way  -- I just went so far and then we'll see how far I can go this time.  
 
Q.  How risky is it for Venus Williams to have only played a couple of doubles matches before a Grand Slam, in your view?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, that's the way they scheduled their season in the past.  I just think it becomes more and more difficult because all the girls in general get better.  So I mean even like today, the girl can hit the ball.  So I think sometimes it's unnecessary to have a fight like that, but that's why I just try  -- for me, it's a different situation.  Just the more I play, the better I am I think.  For me, it's very important to play a lot of tournaments.  I feel comfortable with that.  So it's no problem for me.  Everyone has its own way, so.  
 

FastScripts by ASAP Sports….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT