adidas International
January 11, 2001
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Martina, please.  
 

Q.  You must be very pleased with a win like that?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Definitely.  I mean, you know, I played her a few times, Serena, but overall we have a very, you know, clean record against each other.  I think it's 4-all.  You know, after everybody was telling anyway or saying that I didn't really beat her that tournament in Montreal before the Open, but this time definitely I did, and I feel very good about it.  I think it was a good match.  It wasn't perfect, definitely.  But, you know, there are still a few things you can improve on, and hopefully until the Open I'll be there.  
 

Q.  Bearing in mind that a lot of people consider the Williams sisters to be kind of your main opponents, would you say it's a really good confidence booster?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Oh, for the confidence it's great, you know, that I won today.  Even, you know, as I said, I wasn't at my best.  But also sometimes as much as the opponents lets you to do or dictate the points or just having the control of the game.  But I mean with them it's very difficult, you know.  They are on and off all the time.  So you don't  -- the more you play them, I think the less intimidated you get and the less, you know, problems I think you will have.  But that's their strategy, and that's the way they schedule their tournaments.  So I think, you know, every win against them is a good one to have in your pocket.  
 

Q.  When did the Williams sisters start losing their mystique for you?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Their what? 
 

Q.  Their mystique. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well  --. 
 

Q.  Or their mystery. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS: I mean, I was always better than both of them when we first started.  Venus is the same age and Serena is even a year younger.  I was never really scared of playing them.  Maybe I have more respect for Serena actually because I think Venus' game suits me a little bit more than Serena's.  She's got a big serve.  She can go out there, not play for I don't know how long, and just always, you know, focus on the serve and she's gonna get free points off her serve.  So that makes it very difficult, you know, to just make her play.  But Venus is the one, you know, who is more sometimes even shaky.  In the doubles you could see at certain times.  But they're still, even when they don't play, they're so good, you know, so it's so tough.  They're very aggressive.  And at any time, it's just very hard to play them.  But mystique, they always have for the media and the other people and a lot of girls are already intimidated only going on court.  But I'm the No. 1 player so I just have to defend my position so I shouldn't be that scared or anything.  I know I can play tennis.   
 

Q.  So what do you think you can do better than you did today?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Maybe making, you know, the points on her serve like when I had so many opportunities but it was always deuce and I would just  -- you know, reading her serve may be a little bit better.  Or just be more aggressive, just go for it.  Don't worry about losing the point.  One time it's going to happen, and I'm going to break her.  And also, I think I played a very smart game today.  I mean, I just didn't let down any time.  I always believed, and that's the most important.  You know, just fight for every point.  Don't let yourself down.  
 

Q.  Does she put pressure on your first serve because she really polishes the second one sometimes?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think the serve was never really my strongest method, so, you know, I was just trying to get the first serve safe in and it doesn't happen all the time.  Against other players, I'm not that pressured as from her.  But I think she could have done even more.  I mean, sometimes she would just play it back and not do as much as she would do at the US Open a year ago or even last year.  So I think, you know, I improved on my serve.  She's not getting that many free points any more. (Laughing.)  And also me, once we got into the rallies, I think I was always in advantage once we got into the game, into the point.  That I felt very, you know, comfortable with.  
 

Q.  The Williams sisters have hardly played much in the last couple of months.  Are you at all worried about playing too much?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: No.  That's my thing.  You know, the more I play, the better I am I think.  You know, sometimes you have your ups and downs during the tournament even, but that's the way of a good player - to even get out of trouble and still make it through the tough matches even though you're not 100 percent and not playing very well.  But here I am in the semis again and now I feel like I'm playing better.  
 

Q.  It would be absolutely enormous for you to have won all your matches in the Hopman Cup, then win here, then win at the Australian Open.  So does that worry you at all, the fact that  --?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Oh, not at all. 
 

Q.  -- Every match you win, your chances of winning the Open seem to get worse?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: The earlier, the better.  In '97 I won all of the tournaments but I didn't make it into Hopman Cup never.  So this is a good sign.  When I always played Hopman Cup, I started the season off very well.  Sydney was not really the happy tournament for me always, but it was in '97 when I won -- or '98 I think.  I'm not sure now.  But now I feel like I'm much more consistent, just since probably the French Open or a little bit before the US Open, and I haven't lost that many matches since.  Actually only one against Lindsay in Philly, but then I end up winning the Chase.  I just feel much more, you know, at my level, that I'm much more steady right now.  That it's enough.  Even if I'm not 100 percent, it's enough for a lot of players.  That's very good.  
 

Q.  Every Grand Slam win is a huge one.  If you were to win this next one, would that one, because you've gone a little while  without having --?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: I haven't won yet.  I didn't even win this tournament yet.  So it's too early to say. 
 

Q.  What would another one now mean to you because you haven't had one for a while? Not necessarily Australia, the next one.
 
MARTINA HINGIS: It would mean a lot because I won nine tournaments last year, and I made finals, semis and the quarters.  So it would definitely mean a lot to me to win a Grand Slam this year, yes.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT