AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 29, 2016
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HINGIS-MIRZA/Hlavackova-Hradecka   
7-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel to have won here again?  
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I feel lonely without my partner.   
 Q.  Where is she?  
MARTINA HINGIS: She's playing mixed doubles now.  She's busy, yeah.  She's got a job to do.   
Yeah, it's amazing.  Obviously, like I said, our fairytale continues.  It's amazing since winning Wimbledon.  After that we only lost two more matches.  It keeps going.   
Yeah, when I saw that ball like floating, going out, I was like very relieved.  We kind of feel like we can dig it out.  Even we don't always play the best tennis, we find a way, like especially in the tiebreaker.  That's when it really counted.   
Some games were going on, back and forth.  She had a down, I had a down.  But we're always there for each other.  We really trust each other's skills when it really counts.  I think that was really the difference today.   
 Q.  You've been successful here.  What does this place mean to you?  
MARTINA HINGIS: A lot.  Like I said, it's been always great to start the year here in Australia.  Like Sania said, this is a very player-friendly environment to come here to Australia.  They're very knowledgeable about tennis.  They love their players.  They support them.  It's great to come out here and have this mood, like this tennis mood, the environment gives you, and the setting.   
Also the court, they play really nice.  Whether it's Rod Laver Arena or Margaret Court it's just a cozy atmosphere, and it's so nice to play out there.   
 Q.  I heard you two say the other day you complement each other.  What are your strengths and her weaknesses and vice versa?  
MARTINA HINGIS: What do you think (laughter)?   
Like we say, that's why we found each other.  That also for us is the priority to play doubles only.  We're really focused.  That's our strength, that we can practice together and we make each other better, even from the start when we played our first tournament in Indian Wells and Miami.   
I think we still have room for improvement.  That's what we did.  Our relationship also got stronger.  But I think she definitely sets me up.  She's one of the hardest-hitting players out there.  Like her groundstrokes, her return is really amazing, and her forehand is, if not the best in the world -- okay, maybe Serena can hit it as hard.   
But, yeah, there's not that many people who can match her in the forehand rallies and me on the backhand side and at the net.   
I mean, whoever watched this match today, that's what we were doing.  That's what we try to do every match.   
 Q.  Any chance to come back in singles?  
MARTINA HINGIS: No.  I've had this question for the last year.  I always said no.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT