WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2000
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR: Ladies and Gentlemen, Martina Hingis.  
 
Q. Two wins today. How do you feel?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Pretty good. Tired, though. Didn't have that much time from singles
into the doubles. It was like two sets to one and 3-1 when I came back from my court. I'm
like, "Okay, I'm warm. I just want to keep going." I'm definitely tired now,
yes. I'm happy. It was a good day at the office.  
 
Q. Next match, you are going to play against Silvija Talaja. You played her before. She
said you might remember her from last match. 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I definitely do, yeah. She had a couple set points against me in Berlin
when we played. I think I play much better here now on grass. I really like it. The girl
today played very well. I mean, it was a good match, playing on Centre Court. Now I just
take it round by round. I guess she won easy, 6-2, 6-2. I only saw the match point,
result. Another match in two days.  
 
Q. Serena Williams said today a lighthearted comment that if you get involved in a
relationship with another player, your game tends to go down. Do you agree with that? 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I don't know if she had any experiences, so how can she talk about
that? I don't think my game went down so far, so I'm doing pretty good. I'm happy with my
relationship.  
 
Q. At what point in the tournament do you start sizing up some of your opponents that
you're likely to meet in following rounds?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, definitely Talaja is not one you should overlook. As you said, I
might remember her. I definitely do. She had some good wins over Top-10 players. Against
me also she had two set points. It was a close first set. Then maybe it was a little
easier. Definitely have to take her serious. Just anybody at a Grand Slam, even the girl
today, I never played her before. She was quite tough. She was lucky, too. I couldn't
count the let calls, how many she had today. They have nothing to lose basically, these
girls which play me. If they're good enough, they step it up and they play their best
match of their life.  
 
Q. Were you aware of the fact that Magnus Norman was having a difficult time today
while you were playing?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, but I didn't want to watch too much. I get too nervous. You don't
want to have that before you have to go on court yourself. Definitely I knew what was
happening. I knew that he won the fourth set before I had to go on to play my doubles
again. It was going to be quicker. Unfortunately, he lost. I had a good day at the office.
It's going to make it up.  
 
Q. What will you say to him after a match like that?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I didn't see everything, so I don't know. He had a great French Open,
obviously, two different surfaces. Usually those players who do well at the French Open,
they don't do as well here maybe at Wimbledon. Got more tournaments to come.  
 
Q. Do you feel under pressure at all?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I just put pressure on myself because I want to do well here. I love to
win a Grand Slam this year. I feel very good playing here on grass. I like this
tournament. I won it before. I'd like to do it again.  
 
Q. Chris Evert is your mentor, am I right?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: (Nodding head.) 
 
Q. She obviously was married to a tennis player at one point and talked often about how
difficult it was to balance it. Has she ever spoken to you about that?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Oh, yeah. Well, not specifically about Magnus right now. I mean, I had
relationships with tennis players before. I think you learn a lot from that. I think it's
just the most important thing is the respect, responsibility, trust, just understanding
for each other. Then I don't think it matters who it is. I think two players have pretty
much, you know, the same schedule. At least you can see each other sometimes. It's bad
timing always pretty much at Grand Slams when it's really important. I think we have so
much time in front of us, so it's nothing to hurry. I think you can tell more what you
want when you get older, when you made a few things through already.  
 
Q. I could see on your hand something red. Did you hurt yourself?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: It was from signing autographs.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT