TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
April 1, 2000
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WTA: Questions for Martina. 

Q. How good does it feel to win tonight?

MARTINA HINGIS: It feels great, finally winning a big tournament again, so many times
in the finals in the past. I was never able to win lately, only like Tokyo. But Lindsay
wasn't there. It's not the same when you're seeded No. 1. I had some great wins,
especially this tournament. It really feels great because here is the first time I became
No. 1. It's always a special feeling coming back here. Second title, it's very nice. 

Q. What did you think were the keys to the match?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think I like this weather, tough conditions, that players like
Lindsay or Monica or Mary or the Williams sisters can't just simply overpower me with, you
know, their serve or groundies. I have more chances because I'm more -- not such a
marathon runner, but it's more like my game that I run and get as many balls back as I
can, then try to do something. Here she just can't go for big shots because it's too
dangerous. 

Q. The wind?

MARTINA HINGIS: Wind, yeah. Wind, sun, you have to be in good shape, everything,
patience. 

Q. How important is it for you to win this against Lindsay after her recent string
against you?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, it's nice, you know, finally winning against her because, as
everybody knows, I've had five losses against her. Just kind of for the first time beating
her after a while again, it feels very good, especially in the finals. I was watching the
match against Sandrine - not really watching, but heard about it, because it was so late.
You know, I wanted Lindsay to win because I wanted to get another chance to play her,
especially here at this tournament. 

Q. You got a very bad call at set point in the first set. 

MARTINA HINGIS: Oh, well (laughter).

Q. How did you overcome that?

MARTINA HINGIS: I was still up 5-3, and my serve. I was up 40-Love in that game. But I
felt like I was on top of the game at that moment, especially because I was up 4-All, then
all of a sudden it was 4-3, then I broke her again. That was very important for my
confidence. Even I think if it would be only 5-4, I still think like I was going -- I had
a chance to break her again. But that call, I was already moving over to the chair. I'm
like, "No way." It was like a foot wide for sure. I don't know about the replay,
if you saw it. 

Q. It was out. 

MARTINA HINGIS: Bad, bad call. I mean, it happens in tennis. You saw it before; it's
going to happen again. It's just unfortunate situation when it's a set point. But, you
know, I won the set anyway, so.

Q. What did you say as you approached the chair umpire?

MARTINA HINGIS: I said like, "It was at least a foot wide." That's what I
thought it was. 

Q. And she said?

MARTINA HINGIS: Don't remember. Something, she couldn't see the call, whatever, I don't
know. I won that set, so I didn't even realize.

Q. Do you feel like Lindsay was just a little bit flat today, not really on top of her
game?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, it's not that easy to, you know, play five weeks in a row, three
straight tournaments. She came off of a tough win against Sandrine. It's just long, you
know. That's why we both I think can agree on that, it was a great move not to play
doubles here, it's too much. Always so many people, so many questions, so many things
going on. I mean, even things are going well, everything, you play great, it's still very
tiring, it takes a lot out of you. Every time you go out there, you have to motivate
yourself, push yourself one more day, one more time. It's just today was a great day. Now
I'm so happy everything being over for a while.

Q. How important is it for you to have this win over Lindsay going into the clay court
season, the French?

MARTINA HINGIS: Oh, it's just great. This streak of tournaments was just very nice.
Even the first tournament, we got rained out, then I lost in the finals two weeks ago. I
felt like I had a chance to beat her there; didn't make it. I'm very happy about here
finally doing it.

Q. On a day like this where it's not just windy, but it's swirling wind, you can't
predict the wind, what are the keys for your game to be able to hit the ball cleanly?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I don't hit it clean all the time. Sometimes I had a few
miss-hits there. I'm like, "What's going on?" It's just you have to be patient.
I think it's very important to believe in yourself that you can do that shot, in practice
do it over and over until it's almost like a hundred percent. It's not ever going to be a
hundred percent; you're always going to miss one out of ten. Get in as many as you can. If
you can rely on that shot, you're going to hit it always cross-court or always down the
line, if you miss one, doesn't matter, go for it again - but spin more, a lot of topspin
is very helpful.

Q. Do you find yourself making last adjustments on your feet because of the wind before
you hit the ball?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, sometimes it's like you're waiting for the balls. You always have
to move with the ball. Well, it's getting very much technical now. I would have to almost
show it to you, I don't know (laughter). Sometimes you're like waiting. The easy shots you
get, like on the service lines, you're not allowed to miss them, not against players like
Monica or Lindsay or somebody like that. Sometimes I feel with the players, because
they're nervous or something playing me, that they have to hit the lines or go for a big
shot, go for a winner because they're too intimidated. I was getting to a lot of balls
this time. They always think I pressured them. The pressure from the other opponent, like
when I played Amanda, the first three games it was so tough because I couldn't hit a
winner. You can't just go for too much. 

Q. Talking about technique, what do you work on these last few months to not be
overpowered?

MARTINA HINGIS: The Williamses are not playing. Venus is not playing at all. I didn't
play Serena. I beat Mary, though. I beat Monica two times. And Lindsay, we're even now.
This season so far, she's got a much better record than me. Hopefully I think I'm on the
right way back, playing well again. I'm thinking more on court, you know, taking making
the right decisions at the right time.

Q. When you got to 4-2, were you thinking at all about Indian Wells? 

MARTINA HINGIS: In the second set? 

Q. Yes. 

MARTINA HINGIS: I was thinking, but it felt different this time. I broke her many more
times. She was not serving that well. When we got into the rallies today, I just felt like
we were even. She didn't get that many free points off her serve. That was very important
today. She didn't serve that well. 

Q. Do you think Lindsay deserves to be No. 1, even though you beat her today?

MARTINA HINGIS: Oh, yeah. I said it on court, I can say it again. So far this season,
you know, she's played very well. But it's different being No. 1 and No. 2. It's different
pressure. Now I'm the hunter again (laughter). I don't know by how many points. Tomorrow
we'll know. 

Q. You're at this tournament, trying to play good tennis, trying to hopefully beat
Lindsay. Yesterday they arrest this guy. What kind of distraction is something like that?

MARTINA HINGIS: This guy is obviously a little strange. I saw him before. He was in
Zurich. He's maybe a little crazy, I don't know. He's like in love with me, I don't know.
Actually, in the beginning I tried to tell him, I've got a friend, I'm happy (laughter).
He just I guess likes the attention.

Q. Were you frightened by this incident at all, or you have guys like Pavel to protect
you?

MARTINA HINGIS: No. Well, not at a tournament, because they got a great security. I
mean, he was here. I said I don't feel great having him around me or too close, don't feel
that good. Also when I'm going to go back home, I feel like at first that was on my mind,
you know, he's going to be allowed to go there. But, no. As long as I got guys like Pavel,
as you say, around me. Anyway, I try not to go anywhere by myself. 

Q. Where do you play next?

MARTINA HINGIS: I haven't decided yet about the Fed Cup or whatever I'm going to do. We
still have to talk about it. But I'm going to play Hamburg, Berlin, Rome, Paris. 

Q. You say you're a very thoughtful tennis player. Was there a period when you stopped
thinking?

MARTINA HINGIS: Sometimes your body changes, you think you have so much power, so much
energy, you try to hit shots which are impossible for my stature. Now I'm using my body a
little bit better, my mind, of course, also a little more.

Q. Do you think there will ever be a time in your career when you come to the net more?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, if the game changes a little bit. You always got these players
like Lindsay and Monica, like hard to get in. Either they hit a winner or they miss it.
It's like you don't even get a chance to get in. But I was coming in a little bit more,
especially against Amanda, and also yesterday I was playing much better at the net. When I
got in, I had good wins.

Q. When are you going to start your preparation on clay?

MARTINA HINGIS: As soon as I get back home. We got also red clay in Tampa. Yeah, I'm
going to probably play on the green one. I don't know how well they look right now. Plus,
I don't want to be too lonely. They're in the back with the grass courts. But I take a few
days off. I don't want to take too long because I feel so good right now. I feel
physically very good. I think things are going very well right now.

Q. One of the best weeks of your career. 

MARTINA HINGIS: Like every tournament I got better, I think. Even I lost two weeks ago,
I think I played very good tennis. It just wasn't good enough there against Lindsay
because maybe believing in it, I wasn't as -- mentally, I wasn't there yet. But this time
I was. But tennis-wise, I think I was already playing very well. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT