CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE WTA TOUR
November 20, 1999
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Martina, were you surprised she came back from 3-1 after she obviously had problems
and she threatened a bit at the end? 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: She showed the problems and tried to hide them. I guess everybody at
the end of the year has little problems that, you know, you have to accept and you try to
get better for the next season, and try to just heal everything. But I guess nobody is
100% any more at the end of the year. 
 
Q. So were you surprised?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: That she came back? It was only a break, basically, and I had a few
chances to go up -- well, one break point, actually to go up 4-1, 4-2 also, and I messed
up a little bit there. Just had easy shots to just make it, but that's the game, that's
tennis. And I'm glad I didn't have to go three sets, because at the end, I'd be almost
like this, (sighing), after playing almost two hours, but pretty intense two hours. 
 
Q. Would you call your rivalry with Venus exciting?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, it's not only Venus, but it's also her little sister and Lindsay,
and I think there are quite a few players right now at the top which are just very
motivating and challenging to play against. But definitely, you know, against Venus, you
always try to give your best, yeah.  
 
Q. You do look like you're having fun out there?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, what else do you want to do? You know, if you're winning and
you're playing well, even if I lost today, I think it still had been a great match, and I
improved a lot; so did she, since US Open, I think we even played better, because it's
faster surface here at the Garden, and even more rallies, which went like so quickly, like
back and forth so long. Like, you would think on a surface like here, there's no way
you're going to have rallies like today, but everything is possible, I guess. 
 
Q. Did it feel like a slugfest for a while?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Slugfest? What is that? 
 
Q. Banging --?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, sometimes it did, but I can't put up against her. She's stronger,
but I tried it, yeah. I was just more patient, I guess, sometimes, and she would miss
because she got impatient. It's even like in practice, you don't play like we did today.
You try to, you know, make winners quicker and you don't focus. But today because, I think
right now, we're really like top of the game, so if you really need it, so we can really
play tennis, yeah.  
 
Q. So even though the surface was fast, you hardly came to the net. Was that your
strategy to work mostly from the baseline?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Would you tell me when should I go to the net? Give me advice how to
get there sometimes (Laughs). 
 
Q. You won 11 out of 14 approaches to the net?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: 11 out of 14? That's pretty good. I should probably consider that next
time when I'm playing Lindsay or Nathalie. But no, she would pass me sometimes, quite
well, too. So you had to approach well, but, you know, they count like everything. If
you're like standing in front of the surface line and you hit a winner under the forehand
or something, it's already like attack and I don't think that's like a volley winner,
whatever. 
 
Q. How did you save all those break points?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I don't know, I just went for it. You can't be -- like if you're in
danger in a match like this, it's just -- you can't like really think about it too much;
you're a break point down, you just have to go for it. You have to be aggressive, stay
aggressive. That's what I basically did. She probably put a little bit back, and I -- when
I had the chance, I did it again. I moved for it.  
 
Q. Did you outsmart her today?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, you tell me, I don't know. I tried to, but I had to do something
because, as I said, I can't overpower her; so I had to try to, you know, with patience,
and just wait for my moments. 
 
Q. Do you feel like if you get into a long rally with her that you have the advantage?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, yeah, because like today -- but you have to be in pretty damn
good shape. Like I tried to work on it since the US Open. I didn't probably after that --
I lost those last two matches against her because she was better than me, kind of
physically, and she overpowered me there. But I tried to work on it since then, when I had
like those two weeks back in Saddlebrook. I lost the finals in Philly, but it kind of gave
me confidence. Today, I played just almost perfect.  
 
Q. When you're training, do you have to think about ways specifically to beat Venus?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, it's not only beating Venus, but Serena or Lindsay, too. No, you
have to win those rallies. You can't just go out there and think you're going to have
winners out of every corner, because at first -- well, for me, it's like that. You have to
make them tired, and then just wait and try to make the point.  
 
Q. You've beaten Venus in all the Grand Slams and here, it seems like you can handle
better than her the bigger events?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I think I take them a little more serious sometimes than the other
tournaments. I think you really want to do well at the big events. That's basically what
you're doing it for. The other tournaments -- you don't want to lose. That's not what I'm
talking about, but that's kind of preparation for the big events, yeah. But it's been more
like I win here in the States and she beat me over in the Europe. That's been, like, the
case a little bit. 
 
Q. (Inaudible)?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, if you look at the match today, I'm happy about not having to
play like another four- or five-setter. You can look at it like you win in straight sets,
but everybody is so good, so you might lose one sometimes, and like -- because the game is
so improved. You don't have to look at -- you have more of the quality of the tennis and
not the length, I think. Today, we played two sets, but almost like two hours, so I think
that's pretty good, too.  
 
Q. But you put a lot into the tiebreaker so you would not have to go to a third set?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I really wanted to win the tiebreaker and just stay in the set because,
of course, nobody wants to play a third set, if you have to play like we did today.  
 
Q. You've talked about how you've gotten back into fitness since the US Open and over
the summer, can you explain specifically what you're doing to train?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I've been more lifting weights a little bit, and I also, I think I got
better technically in my ground strokes and my serve today. Probably don't hit it -- serve
like Venus, 113, 115, 120. But today, I would serve very consistent and just try to get
into the rally so that she wouldn't kill me right away. 
 
Q. Do you run, do you bike?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Oh, yeah, I still do like some rollerblade, like some running, too. I
start enjoying it, too, because I know if I'm really able to do something, I'm able to go
through a match today, like without pain or thinking about getting cramps again or
anything like that. So it feels much better. 
 
Q. Do you look at the shot clock on the serve, both yours and hers?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Oh, yeah, sometimes, if I return it back, I look at hers more. Mine, I
don't look at too much. Like if I hit a big serve, but hers would always be like 113; oh,
my God -- in a way, sometimes are easier you just block it away, you know, but then you
want to really take advantage of your second serve and -- yeah.  
 
Q. Do you look at it during the point or after the point's over?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: If she miss it -- well, once you go through the point, they just like
-- it's not there any more because they erase it, but sometimes if she misses the first
serve, you'll get it. You know, you get it back and it will look like 113; "Oh,
pretty good," you know.  
 
Q. Do you feel that she missed more easy shots than usual, especially in the
tiebreaker?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I don't think she missed too many easy shots from what I've seen in the
last two matches. Or when she played in Philly, she didn't play like half of what she
played today, I think. We both raised our level a lot because we both knew we had to,
playing each other.  
 
Q. Did you practice on your serve a lot when you were a kid or did you practice more on
rallying and trying to get it in?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: No, I didn't work too much on my serve, just like a little bit at the
end of the practice. That was always my mom's strategy, not to get a sore back while I was
still growing; so you don't want to serve too much. 
 
Q. Looking back on it, do you feel like that was smart?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Oh, yeah, serve is all just mental, basically. I don't think I would
serve too bad, but I didn't consider it as a weapon because it was enough, you know, just
get the serve in and then I rally everybody as I did today. Just, you can't allow the
other players to kill you, like right away.  
 
Q. Did you have any thoughts after the first game when she held -- that she
doublefaulted three times?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: That was like ace, doublefault, ace doublefault. It's kind of hard to
get a rhythm or just do anything because I wasn't like in the game yet. I couldn't read it
very well, but I got into it quite well, I think. But it kind of gives you also a chance
because, you know, she's like not very focused at that time. So even if she would like hit
aces and doublefault and win the game, still, and I won my service game kind of easily the
next one; so it gave me confidence, too.  
 
Q. You seem sharper at a tournament when you're playing doubles as well as singles;
does that help you relax?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, at this tournament, I think it's very difficult to play with
those night matches. Like one day I finished midnight, and like yesterday, also, 9
o'clock. But you kind of change your rhythm. You just sleep in a little bit longer. You
just have to adjust, and that's what I've been trying to do. But definitely, the last two
matches gave me a lot, you know, what I could learn from, because I haven't played for a
half year almost, since Filderstadt, it's like so different, playing only like the half
court, you've got to get it in there. It helped me, I think, a lot to play the way I did
play today in the singles. I returned much better, and just all over.  
 
Q. Even if you win the doubles, are you still going to change partners?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, it's been said. It's fun playing with her. We still have a great
time and we try to win this tournament, but after it's over, we'll see. Maybe in like a
half year, one year, things might change, who knows.  
 
Q. Did you find yourself taking advantage of going to Venus's backhand today?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Usually that's her stronger side, but as I said before, it's mine, too.
And I made more points off getting those cross-court rallies with the backhand because she
was cracking that forehand today, that cross-court, had some more length with my backhand.
 
 
Q. Can you comment and talk about the fact that you've reached another final over here
in a year; that so many more challenges or challengers have been thrown at you, there have
been so many more players that have really tested you this year, but to reach another
final with the season ending, what does that do for you?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: It's overwhelming in a way. I was like so happy after the match point,
and I was like thinking about when I was up like 3-1, 4-1 in the tiebreaker when I messed
up, and now, this is like a chance which won't be there right away. It's like another year
it will take to play a tournament like here. And I think for the players, it's just one of
the best tournaments ever, like a big one at the end of the season. And if you really can
come up and play well here at this tournament, it gives you so much confidence to go into
the next season.  
 
Q. And if you have to play Lindsay tomorrow, a repeat of last year's final, she beat
you last week in Philadelphia, what do you have to do now to turn the tables from last
week?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think I played much better, much smarter. I thought a lot about
what I was going to do today, in today's match, during the match, still. And against
Lindsay, I mean sometimes you see players, like Venus didn't play her best in the previous
two matches, but she still came out as a winner, and same with Lindsay. I'd kind of like
to see what she's going now out there. But because we all four, you know, well, Serena is
not here. The three of us have been playing so well over like -- very high standards
during the year; so that's why we came kind of through this tournament. And just give it a
shot tomorrow. Doesn't matter who is on the other side, and give it the best again.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT