US OPEN
September 5, 1999
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Is that the toughest she's played you? 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: In a while, yeah. In the beginning when we first played each other, it
was '96 already, and it was a three-setter, so basically I played her most of the Grand
Slam tournaments. So, but, you know, today was tough. Tough conditions, and also a long,
long day at the office today. A lot of waiting around, you know, at 6 o'clock they tell
you you're the night match. You know, so it was kind of -- but, you know, you go up there,
have dinner and then try to fold -- at least you get the time and go out there and play.
It's the same for both.  
 
Q. There was a little confusion. There was an announcement made after the womens' match
that your match was being put off to another session, meaning not today. 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Another session? The night session, yeah. (Laughing) . 
 
Q. Okay. What did they mean by that?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I guess, but everybody was, like, "You're playing today or what
are you doing?" You know, I'm playing the night match. We knew, the players knew
what's going on.  
 
Q. Part of being a pro, of course, is dealing with these delays, and, of course,
especially at Wimbledon.
Q. But what's the one key thing in handling having a match, a big match, being put off
for so long and just waiting and waiting?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I mean just you have to go with it, with that call. And it's like
at the end we both were happy we got to play. They said it might rain at 6:30, it might
rain at 7:00 we were able to play the match and finish it up. So, in a way, it's good for
me. I mean, it's like I don't have to play tomorrow. Another day waiting around, because
they expect some rain tomorrow, too. But what do you do? You just hang around, basically.
There's not much you can do because you don't want to get too tired. But you're kind of
always like -- because you don't know what Mary Joe is going to do, what's going to happen
to her, is she going to finish? Are you right away the next match? It's like, "All
right." You don't know what to expect.  
 
Q. Do you eat in small portions, or do you just --
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I had lunch, like at 6 o'clock when they told us you're the night
match, I went up there and had some pasta. But, of course you don't want to eat like a
huge American portion because then you just -- (laughter) . 
 
Q. A huge what portion?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: American-style, you know, you get a huge plate and a lot of pasta on
that plate.  
 
Q. Martina, did you learn anything from Mary Joe's fast start against Venus that you'll
use against her in the next round?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I mean, I haven't played that great, you know, at this tournament. Not
that great. I played some good matches, solid matches, but it's, I mean, you just always
play different against a player, you know what to do. And I'm sure Venus, you know, is
going to play different against me. But both sisters were struggling a little bit, you
know, but I have to take care of myself right now.  
 
Q. Their father said that they shouldn't play doubles; they should each focus just on
the singles. What's your philosophy about playing doubles, and why aren't you playing
doubles here?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I think I figured that thing out already, not playing the doubles. I
didn't play at the California tournaments, and I'm not playing now also. So... I'm a step
ahead, I guess. For once.  
 
Q. Can you describe why, though?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: It's just too much waiting around. I mean, you got better things to do
than waiting for your doubles match, I guess. If some players, you know, they fit -- it
fits their schedule, they want to play doubles. I used to be like that, too, I was like
gives me some more attention to do something, and I'd rather play doubles in practice too
much, but I think I change in that way a little bit. Practice is better. You get your
times and then you just leave the stadium; it's not like sitting around and waiting for a
doubles match.  
 
Q. Does the actual match, playing doubles, help your game in singles?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: It did for a while. But I gained confidence, and everybody knew I was
able to hit some volleys, too. But I would never really use them in my singles match, so I
just try to evolve that. And I think also the competition, you know, became so much effort
to play all the tournaments with the doubles; so it just makes no sense anymore. Not for
me right now. If you want to keep, you know, playing well at these tournaments, the little
ones, and then also the Grand Slam. Because you saw Venus finish her match and now she
also played the doubles. I mean, it's just sometimes, it's just too tough. Sometimes if
you wind up in a Grand Slam, you just lose energy and waste energy, too, with that.  
 
Q. Martina, the past couple months obviously have been a time for real growth, real
learning for you. If you could step back and say what the one thing you really learned
during this period was, what would that be? Could you reflect on that?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Which period?  
 
Q. Since Paris. 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Since Paris?  
 
Q. And London. 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Just basically knowing what I want more. Just focus on my tennis and
that's all I want to do right now. And that became, you know, better player since then. I
think more on the court, physically I got better, I can last longer in a match, in a
three-setter, and I still feel good. And not just, I guess, things happen or go a
different way, a wrong way, and then you can try to resolve everything. A lot of
conversation, I'd say, also with my mom and Mario. That's what you learn from. It's like
education. You know, you have to grow. One day. Mature.  
 
Q. Informal education?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Right. (Laughter). I still think it's true you have a better school in
here. Maybe not later on, but what I've learned.  
 
Q. Your mother obviously has been your coach throughout, and aside from her tremendous
familiarity with all aspects of you, as a tennis coach, what do you think her greatest
strength is?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: She's got so much willpower and a goal, and she's working on that. And
she's a perfectionist, I'd say, too. If there is a little thing, you know, goes wrong, she
always wants to get everything, you know, settled and perfect. And very disciplined, also.
Because I'm more of a like, laid-back person and she's there for me and pushes me;
otherwise, I would be like, "Yeah, whatever." But that's a great combination.  
 
Q. Martina, you always practice by using basketball. It sounds unique. Why?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I just like different things. It's just keeping me interested in doing
something. If I just be hitting the balls, the yellow little things, I would go crazy. But
it keeps me awake, keeps me busy.  
 
Q. Martina, do you think that having your parent as your coach is the best formula for
a tennis player?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I think for a tennis player, it's very important that you have somebody
on your side, along you that you can trust and is always there for you. It's on your side,
you know, because some other players, you feel like they always want to you use you or
want to get a piece of your cake, too, especially if you're good, at the top. So it's from
your parents; they're always there for you and they try to do the best for you.  
 
Q. Do you have a psychological advantage over Arantxa, do you think? You've won twelve
matches in a row. 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I think I also won a bit today because I beat her so far all the time,
or most of the times. Not only -- the first time I lost. But in big matches, like at the
Grand Slams, I always came out as a winner. That's why today, too, basically. Because she
was tough today. I mean, she wouldn't miss some shots she would miss two weeks ago. But I
knew she's -- couldn't be much worse than there. So I would figure it's going to be tough.
You cannot underestimate anybody, especially not right now. Not here.  
 
Q. Were you surprised the way she came back on you in the first set?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: No, no. I knew it was going to be a difficult match. Sometimes with the
wind, you don't know. It's against the wind; you feel like weight lifting, and with the
wind, you basically have to be on the service line and try not to miss and make a winner.  
 
Q. Is this the kind of match you needed to test you going into the later rounds?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I think, you know, you have to go through certain matches, certain
parts of, you know, during the whole tournament. It's two weeks, and you get to play so
many matches if everything goes well. There's always a different type of player. If you
want to come out as a champion, you have to beat everybody, the fast players, the slow
players, just anybody.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT