CHASE CHAMPIONSHIPS OF THE COREL WTA TOUR
November 21, 1998
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  How excited are you to be playing Lindsay in the Finals, 3 out of 5 sets tomorrow?

MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, to be honest, I am more happy about her playing in the Finals because she has got to play doubles now.  Playing Steffi I remember that match two years ago against Steffi like I am tired already right now.  But playing Lindsay, I played her at the U.S. Open -- it is going to be different story of course.  This is a Finals of the Championships here at the Garden, and it is the last tournament.  You just want to -- as you said yesterday, I am playing for my pride.


Q.  Did you have any concentration lapse in the second set at all, do you think or what happened?

MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I was very confident going out there, so all of a sudden, she didn't play that great in the first set.  Then I said at 5-1, you go for your shots and see what is going to happen.  I was able to pull it out.  Especially in the tie breaker when I was down 6-4, I was like no way -- went all the way back to keeping the set; I am going to lose this one, I was like, please - I was a little lucky also on some of the shots.


Q.  Some players when they are that far behind in the set think, let me just get to the next set, not tire myself out.  Did you ever think that?

MARTINA HINGIS:   I felt that way also.  Actually I won six games.  It would be probably the same as the third set.  But you just don't want to give the other players confidence to let them win the second set and just try to hang in there.


Q.  Speaking of giving other players confidence, you have a 6-6 record against Lindsay Davenport.  You play her again tomorrow.  Will that match have any effect on what happens between the two of you next year and beyond?

MARTINA HINGIS:   We always had great matches against each other.  I guess we never played like two sets or maybe and one two times out of 12 matches.  So definitely it is going to be an exciting match.  When I was younger, in the beginning, she used to beat me.  Then there was a time she beat me -- no, I beat her and now the last two times she beat me again.  It is just going always there and back.  So I hope I can be more successful tomorrow again.


Q.  Rome in May seems a long time ago.  Has it worried you at all that you have gone so long without winning a tournament?

MARTINA HINGIS:   I haven't won yet.  Definitely I will be thrilled to, as I open this year with the Australian Open victory, so I'd like to close it up the same way.


Q.  Even though she lost today, what message does it send to other players the way Steffi has played last couple of weeks?

MARTINA HINGIS:   She was very fresh like if you play 6, 7 tournaments in a year that is not much.  You can see now that  she played three tournaments in a row and wasn't in the greatest, best shape also anymore.  As I always said, it is hard to keep going like three tournaments in a row.  It is almost impossible in today's women's tennis.  The last two tournaments she did great. She beat like four of us like top 10 players and great results. But we were in our top level -- the feeling -- it was a great win for Lindsay today because they both didn't feel that great on the court and she has been more successful.


Q.  Looking back at your three matches here where do you feel your level of tennis is?

MARTINA HINGIS:   It is getting better every time I am out there.  I just gain confidence and, you know, feel better out there, that I have more control about what I am doing.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT