US OPEN
September 12, 1998
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How disappointing a loss is this?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, it's a little bit disappointing because I didn't really know what
to do out there. I didn't have like a big chance to come back. Well, you know, in the
second, I was down 4-2, 5-4, serving, she put out a great game there. I don't know. It was
-- but I still had a great tournament, only to get into the finals. I was pretty happy
about that. I had two great matches against Monica and Jana to come back. It's nice I've
been in the finals again.

Q. Did the Novotna match take that much out of you yesterday, having to go three sets?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, it did pretty much. But I was still, you know, in pretty good
shape this morning. And I felt not too sore. You know, I just had a great match against
Monica. I think after that, I was kind of, you know, satisfied with myself, that I was so
happy, I realized I still can play tennis. So I was like, you know, I went to play the
match against Jana, and I was quite confident. But it was harder than I expected. It took
a lot of energy out of me. Just today, Lindsay hits -- when you see the ball flying from
her side, you feel like, "Hey, this is not so fast." But it's so deep, with such
a good length. So you can't really do that much about it.

Q. When you were in the third set, you broke her, did you get the feeling that you
might have that match?

MARTINA HINGIS: In the second.

Q. Did you get the feeling that maybe --

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, I broke her actually two times, I think, no?

Q. Right.

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, it felt pretty good. I felt like it's going the same way pretty
much as against Novotna. I came back. I think if I would have won the second set, you
know, who knows. But I'd have definitely bigger chances to just go on in the third. But it
was a big game there, 5-4. I lost that one. After that, she was just, you know, served
very well. I didn't make one point in the next game. So I was like kind of disappointed,
you know. I had a chance, but I didn't take it. She just -- in the last game again, I had
some chances. I was like, you know, she was waiting for my mistakes, and I would do them.
But this is the Grand Slam final. So you definitely are always a little bit more nervous
than normally.

Q. What sort of respect is there for Lindsay Davenport as a player, both as a person
and as a player?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I used to say I'd never lose two times against the same player,
but it happened two times. I lost against Monica and now against Lindsay in a row. Lindsay
was just very solid, especially this summer, played so many tournaments, in California,
had a hat trick there. She hits the ball very hard. She's got a solid serve. She improved
her serve a lot. She has the feeling that she can't lose her serve if she's doing well.
That's probably the toughest about her. When you saw her before, she was kind of -- after
you break her, just make a good point, she would let herself go down. She would show it.
But that's the difference about Lindsay now and before.

Q. Does today's loss make you want to get more vengeance tomorrow in the doubles?

MARTINA HINGIS: The singles is always a little bit more important. But, you know, I
hope Lindsay is going to celebrate long, and we have an easy one tomorrow (laughter). It
still is a Grand Slam. It still is a big match for me, the finals of the four Grand Slams.
I definitely will be ready again.

Q. Were you a little surprised that she didn't panic at the end?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, she would, but I was even more, so. She made two big mistakes
there, you know, easy ones. But me, too. That backhand -- yeah, but it's over now.

Q. By most people's standards, Grand Slam season, one title, one final and two semis is
terrific. By your standards of last year, it's a letdown. Do you think you played worse
this season or everyone else has got better?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, both. I think I had an awesome year last year. It was just
unbelievable. Nobody would expect me to do that well. I was just, you know, going for it.
I had a great year. But still, I mean, in the last two tournaments, in the Grand Slams, I
made semis. Now it's a big improvement. I made it to the finals again. So I'm kind of
happy about that, that I'm, you know, taking a good way again. I hope, you know, there are
some more years to come for me.

Q. In the first set, you were behind serving at 2-4. You appeared to have won a point
when Lindsay's hat fell off as she was making an error on a volley. That point would have
given you an ad in the game.

MARTINA HINGIS: I know.

Q. The chair umpire ruled that you should play two. Did that surprise you that she made
that ruling?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I know the rules. I know the rules. It's true, you have to play a
lot. Just go over again. But I don't like this rule. It's not fair for the player, like
me, you know (laughter). Because I had that point won. I mean, it's her mistake if the hat
falls down, it's not my mistakes. But it's just kind of a stupid rule. But it's there and
you can't change it right now. I hope maybe one day they're going to change these
decisions because, you know, I had the chance to make that point. Who knows, if I would be
down 4-3, then I was playing with the (inaudible), but I was down 5-2 and I lost that set.
There are some other overrules or some -- I think not very good decisions. But, you know,
that's tennis, you can't change anything about that.

Q. Did you let those calls get to you more than you normally would?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I don't know how that can happen. I felt like -- I played Lindsay
in the US, this is the US Open, I was fine with that. But I think it was pretty ridiculous
that it was an American umpire, too. So if you have another like from Australia or from
Europe, you know, some other country, you don't let it that close. But she was from
America, so I think this is like that shouldn't happen again in the US Open finals or just
any finals, that it's the same countrywoman in the States. I think this is pretty, you
know, strange to me.

Q. Did you go into the match thinking that?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I didn't know. Actually, I saw her around, but I didn't know
where she was from. You know, when we had the warm-up, all of a sudden, USA, Texas, I was
like, "Huh, what's that?" It was like one step after the other. You know, I
don't want to take anything away from Lindsay. She had an awesome tournament. I mean, she
didn't lose one set. You know, she deserves it.

Q. Can you describe the way she rebounded from your taking the lead 5-4 in the second
set after that changeover? 

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, she had a great game there. I mean, I didn't serve that badly.
Well, I just tried to put the serve in. But she kind of killed me that game. I think I
didn't make one point in my service game. Actually, I think I lost like eight straight
points, I think, after that changeover. I was like, "Hey, what's going on?" I
mean, I just won three games. I broke her twice. I don't make one point anymore.

Q. Is she the hardest hitter in the game? Is that indicative of what maybe the weight
loss and maybe her being kind of underrated as an athlete, you can't run her around and
tire her out anymore?

MARTINA HINGIS: I think she has a very good anticipation that she would, you know,
sometimes just know where I was playing it. She was just always there. When I was having
an easy shot, I would always play it to her racquet. I was like, "Great." But
that's what I think makes a great player. Especially when, you know, she lost weight,
she's definitely moving around better. She's tall. She's got like all arms or legs. Not
like Venus, but she knows where -- that's about Lindsay, she knows more about the tennis
game, because she's more experienced. She just, you know, feels better how to play or what
to do at certain occasions. 

Q. Is she the hardest hitter?

MARTINA HINGIS: It's different. Like when you play Pierce or like -- I think Pierce is
the hardest hitter, but it's not as effective as Lindsay's because she's got very good
length. It's harder. I mean, it's like in baseball a little bit. Lindsay's ball flies to
you, and all of a sudden it makes a curve, and you feel like, "Hey, where is the ball
going at?" You know, when you play like Pierce, the ball is just hitting so fast and
so straight. Lindsay's is just very long, and you don't really know what to do about it.

Q. You said you were happy overall with your year this year. But if you could improve
on something for next year, what would it be?

MARTINA HINGIS: Just keep going and, you know, maybe win some more Grand Slams.

Q. You always seem gracious and cheerful, even in defeat. Were you always like that?
Most of the athletes I know in defeat are moody or glum. Is there a secret to keeping an
upbeat attitude?

MARTINA HINGIS: Not really. I had still a great tournament. I improved my game a lot
since I was here in the US six weeks. If I would play as I play the first week of the
tour, I started here, so I wouldn't get very far. Now, you know, I saw my improvement in
the game during this tournament. So I'm pretty happy about that. I just try to keep going
and beat Lindsay again. I don't want to lose my No. 1 spot.

Q. Looked like maybe in the first set especially you were starting to play a power game
like Lindsay. Would you say you were doing that?

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, I started seeing where she's playing to, especially that backhand
cross-court, you know, was very tough. Even sometimes you're moving there, but you're kind
of always a little bit late because it's pretty hard. I think that I was just trying to go
for it, and power it back. But at the end, it was a little bit too late actually. You
know, there are always next tournaments to come. That's the nice thing about tennis.

Q. Pete Sampras has traditionally said what tennis is all about for him is Grand Slam
titles, not necessarily being No. 1. Being No. 1 obviously is very important to you. Could
you explain its importance?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, it's both. I mean, you want -- Pete has been around for so long.
I mean, he can put up a new record or gets even with Emerson. For him it's not only being
No. 1, but if you win the Grand Slams, you will be No. 1. So there is the same thing. 

Q. Would you consider your year disappointing because you have not won the same amount
of Grand Slams?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I won the first one. You know, I made the finals now, semis at
the other two. So I think I've still been pretty solid, even if my game wasn't at the top.
It has improved again. You know, just try to keep that direction. Just who knows what's
going to happen next year. I just feel like I put too much pressure on myself sometimes at
the other tournaments, after the Australian Open. I just wanted to win the French, but it
was kind of different and difficult to me, too. So, no, just kind of take it easy. I know
my game is doing pretty well now. Just try to do better next year again.

Q. You've been on tour a short time, had a lot of success. Can you imagine what it
would be like to wait six years as a professional to win a Grand Slam? Do you think you
could be that patient if I took you that long to win again?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, Jana Novotna has been waiting either longer than Lindsay. Lindsay
had a good year when she won the Olympics there. But I don't know. I'm not in that
situation, so. I mean, for her, it must be great to win this tournament now, having
finally a Grand Slam victory, especially the US Open. She is an American. So it must feel
great. But, you know, I have my career still in front of me. I won this tournament
already, so I just want to have that feeling again to be the best.

Q. You said you put a little more pressure on yourself this year. Is that because there
are so many more younger players coming up, trying to get where you are?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I mean, as long as they keep losing against me, I'm fine
(laughter). As long as they only talk and don't do anything. It's like Lindsay said
yesterday, I felt that that's great, that was a great answer, you know. Venus said again
she's going to be No. 1. You know, she can talk, but I'm going to do it. You know, that's
nice.

Q. You said that you hoped Lindsay would go out and celebrate long and hard. Do you
have any suggestions for her?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I went to Nobo (phonetic) last year. I love Japanese food. I
don't know. I drank saki. But that's like in ten minutes you're under the table when you
come back.

Q. Was there any specific moment during the match today where you realized she was
playing better than you had expected her to play? 

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I played her in LA, in that final. So I knew she's a tough
opponent. She hasn't lost a set so far this tournament. And I said yesterday I'd rather
play Venus than actually Lindsay, because I think Lindsay's a smarter player, she's been
out there before. But, I don't know. She just -- it's hard to beat her right now. She's
got so much confidence.

Q. Has this year taught you anything on the court?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, that I have my kind of willpower back. Especially in yesterday's
match, that even I would be down 4-1, I didn't let it go, and I came back in that match.
When I played the other California tournaments, I was like, I didn't really believe in
myself, that I still could win the -- win the matches against tough players. You know,
after that win against Monica and Jana, I think I have the confidence back. You know, like
today, Lindsay was better than me. But I still kind of didn't let it go until the last
game, and last point.

Q. Even though you know that Lindsay's a much more fit player now, is there a tendency,
when you dropshot her on match point, this she's not going to get to that?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, maybe. But it would have to be a better dropshot than that what I
did today (laughter). I did some dropshots against Monica, too, but they were much better.
But I'm happy about my game now. You just sometimes play dropshots because you don't know
what else to do. You just kind of hope to make the point shorter and maybe you're the
lucky one.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT