US OPEN
September 3, 1998
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  When you are having a little trouble against Iva in a match like this, do you think back at all at Roland Garros? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I just played her three weeks ago in L.A. I beat her 3 and 3.  It was kind of much easier than today.  Actually, she made same amount of game as today, second set was much better.  I was kind of very nervous in the beginning.  I was up a break 4-1, still I didn't have my rhythm.  I didn't feel like I controlled the game.  But it was just kind of very strange coming from last night not having played and have to play next day.  I don't know.  I was just very nervous the first set.  I was still also in the second.  I kind of loosened up and everything started to go in, which I tried to do in the first set too. 
 

Q.  Last few times you played her you had an easy time.  She only won three games --
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yes, 3 and 3. 
 

Q.  Do you think to the last time when you did have difficulty against her when you are having trouble?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Actually, I only lost that match against her in the French Open finals, but I was so tired -- she won that match.  She is the champion at the French Open last year.  She deserves that title. She got it, but I wasn't like 100%.  I was like so happy I am in the Finals there after my surgery.  So I was very satisfied about already being there. 
 

Q.  I apologize if this was asked, but did you see her mentally collapse in the second set?   Could you sense that after the tiebreaker she was completely out of it?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, but I was strong.  I didn't let her back in the game so was focused from the first game on.  She would serve and -- she would still be 30-Love up in the first game, and I still kind of came back and won the game -- just try to go through and play my game. 
 

Q.  What are your thoughts on Mauresmo in the next round?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, gosh, don't want to remember.  I played her in Fed Cup.  I was like 7-6, 4-1 against her, but I still won that match.  But it is  different time, different occasion, this is Grand Slam. 
 

Q.  Will you make a concerted effort to make more control of this next match from the get go instead of having your opponent in control like she was -- what was happening today in the first set?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yes -- what? 
 

Q.  Are you going to try to take more control of your next match --
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I was always up, actually, in the match.  I was always ahead.  I just -- she kind of always moved from the back and made it to the tiebreaker, but I have a good score in the tiebreaker, so I am pretty much -- in the past, I won so many tiebreakers.  So I kind of feel confident when it even gets to the tiebreaker, so it is okay. 
 

Q.  Have you you looked at your draw?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, yes.  I mean, everybody does that.  I mean, you just want to go round by round, match by match, but you know who is in there.  And well, I saw, especially, second round Huber and Majoli, that is enough for me.  They both were in the Top-10 for a long time, and it is just very hard to play either of them.  Now I am over, and I hope in the next couple of rounds it is hopefully going to be easier. 
 

Q.  Have you been thinking a lot about Seles because she is in your quarter and you haven't had too much success against her in the last four months?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  We will see.  I had a good match against her in Montreal, I lost.  But that was kind of close again.  She is a very powerful player and I think I improved in the last, three, four tournaments, especially.  I got better and better each time.  I had a good time playing her, but she was just a little bit stronger.  She is just mentally stronger to hold her serve and go through the match, but this is a Grand Slam.  You just go for it. 
 

Q.  You were talking about nervousness today in the match.  Were you talking about sort of the pressure of a defending champion or just the way she was playing?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  No, no, just myself.  I want to do well out there and if something don't work what is going to happen -- especially when you play her, it is like second round, if you -- would it be in the quarters or semis already.  You know, she is a good player, but like second round have to play Majoli, and she is like 20 in the world, but I think everybody knows she could be a lot better player or she was.  You never know what is going to happen with these players, either they play well or they played bad, but you never know.  That is what is difficult about  it.  That makes you nervous because you don't know what to expect. 
 

Q.  You obviously are of the crop of so-called teenagers players.  You have Monica and Steffi cominging back strong and you have the veterans -- is this one of the strongest fields you have seen in a long time?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, it is very open, I'd say.  I was playing -- Williams, she had two easy wins so far.  Even Lindsay, she feels very good, I am sure. So far once you have been winning in the match everything was so easy; especially you don't have any upsets so far and just everybody seems to be in good shape. 
 

Q.  When you come in as defending champion do you approach your tournament different mentally?   How tough is it coming in?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I like playing here.  I am unbeaten so far in the stadium court here so I like this tournament.  It is always nice to come back at any of these Grand Slams and you know you are the past champion and you did well out there.  It is good. 
 

Q.  Who is the player you least like to play and why?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Lindsay and Monica right now, I'd say. 
 

Q.  Is it because of power?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, they are very powerful from the baseline and with those players or even like Mary or Venus because, you know, they are like stronger than me from the baseline.  I kind of always have to be -- or defend myself like in the commercial - oh, God, has anybody seen it yet? 
 

Q.  The Clairol one?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yes.  How did you like it? 
 

Q.  How did you like it?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I like it.  It is fun and some players came up to me and said it is good.  Nice seeing athletes doing something as you would see like basketball players making commercial for something and I think it is fun. 
 

Q.  You don't wear your hair like that much?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  No.  Should I? 
 

Q.  Clairol would like it, I am sure.
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  For the court it is very -- not very practical, I like the head band better. 
 

Q.  The pictures for Vogue Magazine, was that fun too?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, yes, I love them.  For GQ it was. 
 

Q.  I am sorry. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT