US OPEN
August 29, 1998
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







VERONIQUE MARCHAL: Questions for Martina, in English first, please. 

Q. How are you doing? How are you feeling? How is the format the moment? 

MARTINA HINGIS: I'm getting better and better. Well, I played three tournaments before
this, took a week off. Well, it seems like I always get to the semis and finals and can't
win the tournament, but this is a different one, the last Grand Slam of the year. I'll
save my energy and go round by round. 

Q. Have you gotten to the stage you think already in your career where the Grand Slams
become a major focus point of your career and you plan your build-ups to those
tournaments? 

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, pretty much it is. But Montreal, Wimbledon or the other
tournaments, those are also big tournaments and you want to do well. Every time you lose,
it's like you give the other ones the chance: Oh, maybe I can beat you too. So you don't
want to lose, but the major tournaments are definitely the biggest ones you have to do
better. 

Q. You're not suggesting you're teasing them a little bit, are you, by pretending that
they can beat you? 

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I made the semis the last two, so I hope I can defend the lead
this one. This is a tough draw. I mean if you see -- I don't even know who I played
because they didn't finish, but if you see the other first round, it's just amazing. The
winner, if I win, plays me. Then they're really happen -- that never really happened
before.

Q. Do you think you're in the toughest half as well in the draw?

MARTINA HINGIS: Once you get through that round, it should be easier, but then there's
Monica and Jana too. But, I mean right now we just go round by round because every match
is going to be tough. But I feel pretty confident right now. I hit the ball well in
practice, so I hope I can do it on the court too.

Q. Martina, a year ago everything was new and you were number one. Is it a lot harder
to go from tournament to tournament now than it was a year ago? 

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, sometimes you just go to the tournament and, you know, I won 12
out of 17 last year, and you just go: Oh, this is another one I have to defend -- oh,
there's another one. So it's kind of different position I'm in right now than I was in
last year. I was not the favorite -- later on in the year I was. But in the beginning,
nobody would really take me serious enough and they thought: Well, she has an opportunity
maybe or she has the talent to do it, but who knows what's going to happen. I did very
well. And, you know, this year the players became much stronger, like you have the younger
players which are more experienced. And the older ones, they start practicing again and
they want it back. They won the last two Grand Slams right now it's very big competition.

Q. Is it less fun for you this year?

MARTINA HINGIS: I was pretty happy those two Grand Slams were over in Paris, but after
that I just kind of had to -- took a week off and relaxed. And now I'm -- I just want to
keep winning again. You know, sometimes you get to the point you're sick of losing once
you're used to keep winning all the time. So I guess I can get back to that point right
now. Anybody can lose, okay, the other one is better. But it didn't feel like I'm 100
percent when I'm on the court sometimes.

Q. What kind of things have you been working on since Wimbledon? 

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, my serve. The women's game, I think I got much stronger
especially on hardcourts right now. Once you lose your serve, it's like in mens, you lose
a set. That's a different strategy, and you have to be very concentrated. It's a different
game and I wasn't quite used to it. I was working on it and we'll see. I hope it's going
to be working now. 

Q. I know you're very competitive, and you only play supports and games to win, but
have you found this year, when it has been difficult, particularly since the Australian,
where you have been unable to defend but get to the semis or whatever, have you been able
to rationalize it and say: Well, okay, I'm not going to win all the time, but I can stand
this as long as I'm doing my best? 

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, once you're not on the point you feel like I can't get any better
any more. So you should better stop. I didn't feel like that so far, so I always think you
can improve and work on yourself. You could see like Borg or Lendl, they never had all the
shots but they would be working on it, and Lendl never had a great backhand but at the end
of the Courier, he proved it a lot. And Borg also started coming to the net. When you talk
about coming to the net, he never came to the net, but at Wimbledon he would make some
shots there too. So you always can improve whatever you do. And just try to get better. 

Q. But you're able to say: Well, if I don't win this, it's not a disaster because, you
know, I'm still enjoying it --

MARTINA HINGIS: Sometimes you get to the point, you know, like I lost or so -- at that
point, you are pretty upset or you just say: Ah, what the hell. But then -- because I have
just this vague feeling and I had it. So you always want to have that back. So I have
motivation again, yes. 

Q. You changed your hair color? 

MARTINA HINGIS: No, it just lightened up. The color is washing up. 

Q. Last year it looked completely different. 

MARTINA HINGIS: That was Australia. I just put new color on there. But I had some
highlights done, in Wimbledon. Since then, I was four weeks here. 

Q. It was almost black, I thought. 

MARTINA HINGIS: I used to. But I wasn't at home for almost five weeks, so I don't have
anybody to do that. No, but, you know, I like changes and it's lighter again. But, who
knows what's going to happen next week. (Laughter) .

Q. You're still very, very young. You've got your whole career ahead of you and yet
you've achieved an awful lot already so far. You're not an old timer, but of the older
players, do you think Monica or Steffi is possibly the biggest threat and, if so, why? 

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think Monica especially is very dangerous. She knows what she
wants in life right now. Like last year or the year before, I don't think she -- she would
just play but just wasn't really like 100 percent for her. But right now she only focuses
on that. She got stronger. And also Lindsay is also very dangerous right now. She lost to
Steffi yesterday, it was, but I didn't see the match. I don't know what happened because I
can't imagine Lindsay losing to Steffi. She beat her like three times the last time they
played. So I don't know, but Steffi -- I mean she can play very well still, but I mean the
losses she had, she would never lose before against players like Sugiyama or Serena, but I
don't know, she seemed to be in a good way. It's her decision whatever she does. So, you
know we'll see at this Grand Slam.

Q. Do you think on this particular court that Monica with her persist tense and if she
gets the accuracy --

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, she's very aggressive. This court is pretty good for her. It's
not too fast, not too slow, and it's just perfect. She improved her serve and -- she lost
so much weight so she moves better. She hits the balls, she's got a great touch otherwise
she wouldn't be number two in the world. You can really see it, but she hit the ball so
hard from any angle. Sometimes it doesn't get there, sometimes she puts it over. But she
won the last three tournaments in California, so she's tough. 

Q. Martina, there's an article in one of this morning's newspapers in New York which
implied that your image over the last few months has been more important to you than your
tennis: Changes of hair, changes of clothes. Is that fair?

MARTINA HINGIS: This morning? 

Q. Yeah, yeah. 

MARTINA HINGIS: I had a great last year, so I mean, this attention was just put on me
because of last year, and I always saw -- like to do things with Clairol for shampoos or
just commercials. When I was younger, I always wanted to be a model. It was a great
experience to do and once you are number one in whatever you do, I guess you have to do a
lot more and nobody can really imagine -- before I hadn't done what it takes to be number
one so you can't really compare me to anybody else right now because it's been a very
different year from last year. 

Q. Did you meet the Backstreet Boys? 

MARTINA HINGIS: Not yet. I guess I'm going to see them later. I was supposed to be on
the Jay Leno show; they were supposed to be there, but I didn't go in yet. I'll probably
see them there. I have one CD, so -- Quit Playing Games With My Heart so. . . (Laughter)
And I saw them on Rosie when they were singing this song, they were like Rosie, Rosie. 

Q. Any last questions in English? Could we have questions in Swiss, German? If you just
stay, we actually have a little surprise for the journalists that stay. 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT