THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 24, 1998
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








VERONIQUE MARCHAL:  Questions for Martina in English first, please.


Q.  Why did you call for the trainer in the third set?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, in yesterday's match, I was already cramping a little bit at the end when I played Testud.  Today it started also a little bit, like the quad strain.  I thought, well, it's a tough match, a lot of running.  She put some cream on that.  I just, you know, on both sides.  I didn't want to get into cramping again.  I was a little bit actually on my serve.  It was hurting a little bit.  Like both legs are pretty heavy from yesterday's match.  Today was a lot of running.


Q.  Serena was in here earlier and she did not say you were faking injury, but she strongly suggested that you probably didn't need the trainer.

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I guess I needed the trainer because I had a good reason.  I mean, I told you why.  I  needed the trainer.  Probably should have done it before already like at 3-2 or 4-3.


Q.  Were you surprised that she was able to rally as well as she did?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I kind of -- you know, I was up a set, 1-0.  I broke her, then I lost like six games in a row.  I guess I had already different plans in my mind. I was just -- you know, there were some pretty close calls, like on my serve and everything.  Such a little miss.  Well, I'm playing in the US, so I guess if I'm going to play Williams or anybody else, it's going to be always like close calls.  We'll see.


Q.  Did the wind affect any of the play?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, definitely.  The wind was like in the beginning pretty heavy.  Well, it was just a tough match.  I'm happy to came back -- that I could come back from two match points.  Wasn't probably my best match.  I was pretty nervous.  I never played her before.  I only played like five times, her sister, already.  But she's going to be a tough opponent in the future.


Q.  Do you play anybody on this tour who is able to retrieve your wide shots as well as she does? 

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, Venus did it also.  But I kind of was in better shape at the other tournament.  Now it's the second tournament already.  I'm almost a month here.  Well, you just can feel it in your whole body. Something is a little hurting.  Actually, I had a week off. But I was in LA doing a commercial.  Everybody always goes like, "Do this," put me there.  It's a long week.


Q.  I probably didn't make my question clear.  What I was asking was, have you had an opponent like Serena?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I said, Lindsay or Venus, they can do it, too.  Today I wasn't just in best shape.  I couldn't hold it for the whole match.


Q.  When was the last time you win a match after two match points?

MARTINA HINGIS:  I don't know.


Q.  Hilton Head.

MARTINA HINGIS:  Yes, Hilton Head against Monica. Actually, you normally have a good memory.


Q.  Down 5-3.  Was your plan to become more aggressive or more conservative and hope she would make the mistakes?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I was aggressive.  But I just kind of couldn't put the ball away.  She always hit everything back.  The ball was always just on the let (indicating).  I was like, "No way."  She was also pretty aggressive.  She served very well.  I think she played a great match.  But I kind of came back from 5-3, down 40-15.  I didn't feel very well in my skin, though.


Q.  She served pretty well.  Did you feel you served poorly?

MARTINA HINGIS:  I served pretty well in the beginning, and also at the end.  But in the middle of the match, it was not the greatest.


Q.  Martina, was there a point where it crossed your mind, "I can lose this match"?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I wasn't thinking actually I could lose this match.  I was just pretty relaxed, probably too much after I won the first set and was up 1-0.  When she was up 4-1, kind of just let it go, I wanted to concentrate to the third set.  Just kind of was -- we kept kind of holding our serves.  It was a tough match.  She could break me.  I never really thought I could lose.  But I was down 5-3, 30-15.  It wasn't the best points to play.


Q.  How upset were you with yourself when you threw the racquet across the court?

MARTINA HINGIS:  I had so many chances there.  I mean, I was up 1-Love.  I lost two bad games.  Normally I win games like that.  If it's like 30-All or I had advantage  or just have games, I usually win.  But I lost two in a row.  I wasn't very happy with myself because I had the chances to make the points, and I didn't do them.


Q.  In your opinion, which of the Williams sisters has the greatest potential?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I think they both are pretty tough.  But for me, it's hard to say.  I wasn't playing my best match.  I played much better against Venus because I was in better shape.  They both have such a different game.  They both are pretty good and dangerous for everybody.  Venus has a better serve, hits the balls much harder.  Serena is more controlled, better mind, but Venus is very confident.


Q.  When your leg starts hurting, you decide to call for the trainer, does it also call for your mind, "Maybe it's also not a bad idea to let her sit and think about this for a while"?

MARTINA HINGIS:  I guess everybody could think that.


Q.  Did you think that?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, yeah, my legs were hurting. But you also think a little bit about that.  I guess it was a good decision.


Q.  After this incident with the trainer and the French  Open last year, are you concerned that other players might think that you're playing gamesmanship with your opponents too often?

MARTINA HINGIS:  Gamesmanship?  That I would call the trainer at 5-4?


Q.  The final, third set called for the trainer.

MARTINA HINGIS:  Me?

MARTINA HINGIS:  I lost 6-4, 6-2.  A couple players called the trainer, like Venus.  We were playing in Sydney and she called the trainer.  She was limping on the court, but she still could run pretty well.  I guess there are little games, everybody's playing games.

MARTINA HINGIS:  Either you play the games on the court, you play dropshot lob, or you play other games.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT