THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 20, 1998
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was it just too easy? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I felt pretty good out there, so sometimes you can -- if you wait for two hours to get on the court, so you are pretty excited to be out there, and then I was just really focused.  Because I only played her once, and that match I lost, so I was really into it.  And I played well. 
 

Q.  A year ago you were just about to become No. 1 and tennis was a whole lot of fun.  Is it still fun or has it become more business?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: No, it is even more fun.  I am up there for one year.  Now, probably after this tournament, going to celebrate it.  Yeah, it has been a great year.  And hopefully I can continue like this. 
 

Q.  How will you celebrate it?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well -- 
 

Q.  Big party?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Party.  But just with my own friends, you know, not with everybody.  Because it is just  kind of a little thing. 
 

Q.  You have been called the Teen Queen of Women's Tennis.  How do you live up to all the hype?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: I read about Venus.  She is queen of courts.  I said okay.  (Laughter)  Well, I like this, to be up there, and this is, I guess, everybody would love to be playing tennis No. 1 in the world. 
 

Q.  About tonight's match, was it too easy for you tonight?   How did you feel out there?   Do you feel great?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Oh, yes, of course.  I came from Indian Wells, I won the tournament.  I won a lot of self-confidence.  And especially on hard court, I like to play on that surface.  Was the defending champion.  You have to play well if you want to be the champion again. 
 

Q.  Have you cut down on any of your sort of non-tennis activity, like horse riding, after that mishap last year?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Not lately, no.  I have been more careful about that so far, and... 
 

Q.  Do you still bring your boots to tournaments ready to go riding?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Not in America.  Not this place. Because I know there are not that many places right here.  I went to watch it in Indian Wells.  They had Grand Prix, highest level, so couldn't compete there.  But maybe one day,  you know, who knows. 
 

Q.  You talk about confidence.  Is it important that you don't get too much confidence or that you don't get cocky?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I guess this is a tough question.  So far I haven't got there.  So I don't feel like I could become like that.  Because if you kind of win and you kind of smile on the court, so I don't think you get cocky out there.  I mean, if somebody is No. 1 and win so many tournaments, you could have some self-confidence out there. 
 

Q.  When you come back to London this summer, this Wimbledon, first time you are defending a Grand Slam.  Will you be quite nervous about that?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: I love the tournament.  I had so much fun as a Wimbledon champion.  You always like to come back to that tournament.  So I am looking forward to be there again. 
 

Q.  Will you be confident of retaining your title?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, grass, it is not kind of my favorite surface.  But I play one tournament on grass and I won it, so I can't say that I don't like it anymore. 
 

Q.  Do you give ideas to your sponsors, what you like to wear?  Do you care about fashion at all?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: I care a lot about fashion, but just normal, not really tenniswear.  But this time I really like what I have on, so finally.  
 

Q.  Not before?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Not very much. 
 

Q.  In Australia?
 
MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I guess that wasn't the best outfit they had, you know. I like what the other girls sometimes had on.  But this time I really like it, and -- yeah. You also like to play better.  You are kind of excited to go and show up in your nice clothes out there, so I care pretty much about what I have on. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT