STATE FARM EVERT CUP
March 11, 1998
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What happened to the skirt from two days ago? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  The skirt? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, the dress.  Oh, that was just for doubles.  It wasn't so hot.  I played two night matches.  I figured it's better play with it in the sun and not when it's cold out there.  But I also have a top to go with the skirt, no sleeves.  Maybe next time if I play an afternoon match again. 
 

Q.  Were you a little disturbed when she went ahead 1-5?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, she just started playing much better.  I mean, she didn't do the errors anymore.  She just hit every forehand down the line.  I was like, "Hey, what's going on there?"  Then I figured she couldn't do it all the time.  I  started pressuring her even more.  Kind of fight back that set. 
 

Q.  After she took the trainer time-out, you were moving her all over the court, side to side.  How come you never hit a dropshot?  She'd have to run more for that.
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I forgot about that (laughter). It's very difficult on the surface to hit a dropshot.  If it's not perfect, just behind the net, it's so easy to get there and to make a point.  I mean, you really have to hit it perfectly.  She's not such a bad runner for moving forward. That's why I kind of figure if I do let her run on the baseline. 
 

Q.  When she began the injury count on Conchita, it got down to 15 seconds before she returned to the court.  Did you ever have any question that she might not make it?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  That she would give up? 
 

Q.  No, 15 more seconds and she loses, right?  You only get three minutes.
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah.  I mean, she just had a blister.  I don't know what was there.  Just have to tighten her shoe, and that was it.  That was 15 to go.  You have another 20 after she says, "Time, warning," whatever. 
 

Q.  Down 1-5, Martina, do you start thinking of previous matches you've played against her, and the record  you've got against her?  Do you start getting a bit concerned or not?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, the record, it tells me I'm two up. 
 

Q.  I understand that.
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I lost the first two.  In the finals, she killed me there actually.  After that, I never lost to her again.  It's a different position now, I would say. 
 

Q.  What I was meaning is that, are you thinking of the good results, the wins that you've had against her, that you're not going to let that happen, she's not going to get carried away?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, somehow I was thinking all the time that she can't hold this pressure all the time. Even if I'm going to lose the second set, she can't hold it on such a high level all the time, all through the match.  I figure if I lose the second, I might have another chance in the third.  I still wasn't tired.  I still was like really in the match and pressuring her all the time.  I was letting her run.  I was making the game, not her. 
 

Q.  Have you managed to see any of Steffi play thus far?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  No, not yet.  She always played after me.  I was watching just a little bit.  But you don't  really see it on the TV.  I didn't really feel like after the match I want to go out there and watch it. 
 

Q.  What are your thoughts on having her on the other side of the bracket and a potential final against her?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  We'll see.  I've got a tough match to go against Venus.  I first want to take that.  After, we can think about who is going to be in the finals. 
 

Q.  Any thoughts in general about having her back and playing this well?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, good for her, it's good for tennis.  If she can do well and continue like she's done so well, it's good for her. 
 

Q.  What is your record against Steffi?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Don't ask that.  You can look at it somewhere else (laughter).  I'm down.  One more match. Many players don't even have one, so. 
 

Q.  Venus is next.  The last time you played was Sydney.  She beat you over there.
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Who, Venus? 
 

Q.  Venus.
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yes. 
 

Q.  How do you feel about this?  Looking for revenge?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  So far, I won when it was more important.  I won the U.S. Open final.  I think that's a little bigger effort than playing the first tournament in  the year.  She played well there.  She made the finals. We'll see what's going to happen now. 
 

Q.  Martina, she said that she changed her strategy against you in Sydney, that instead of trying to go for winners, she played steady and forced you to try to hit winners.  Are you going to change your strategy at all when you play her on Friday?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I'm going to be definitely more ready than I was in Sydney.  I kind -- that was the first tournament I played there.  Still had a big chance to beat her there.  I was up a set and 3-1.  After that, I just kind of let it go.  I'm ready for this time. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT