US OPEN
September 7, 1997
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Was it easier than you expected? 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I didn't think it was very easy. I just played, you know, very
good tennis out there, especially in the first set. You know, she had a great performance
in the matches before, especially that one against Irina, coming back from being two match
points down. That was a great effort from her. I thought, "Well, maybe she might be a
little bit tired." But she was still running very well at the baseline. Just played
outstanding tennis out there. 
 
Q. Martina, going in, what was your plan against her?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, you just kind of have to try to mix it up a lot. You can't allow
her to make her game. She has very powerful groundstrokes. If she's going to let you run
left-right all the time, especially her backhand is very dangerous. 
 
Q. Nobody handles her serve as well as you did in this tournament. What do you know
about her serve that helps you?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I'm pretty much known about having a great return. I'm pretty
much known that I'm having a good return. So my serve is not a big weapon I have in my
game. I have to have something else. That's my return. I also think mostly she's trying to
serve to my forehand. I just know the ball, if it's going to be important, she's going to
try to serve there. You know, she maybe didn't serve as hard as against the other players.
Just was trying to keep the ball in the game. You know, I always had the chance to play it
back. 
 
Q. Did you have any concern when she broke you in the second set?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, it was the only break -- the only time she broke me. I was like,
"Okay, that's the same thing as when I played Lindsay Davenport, having the set 6-2,
4-2, then loosening up a little bit." I was also maybe a little bit tired from, you
know, just everything what was around, being in the Finals against Venus Williams. I
thought, "Well, I've got it now." She started actually playing much better in
the end. 
 
Q. Martina, two weeks ago everybody would frankly have expected you to be in the final
but probably not Venus Williams. Was that tougher on you also because you probably didn't
expect her to be here either?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: No, I didn't expect to have this opponent in the Finals. I think many
people, just spectators, were following this match. I think it's great for women's tennis.
You always see new faces. There were always people talking about her, but she never
brought up the results. Now this time, making first time a performance at the US Open,
reaching the Finals, is not a bad effort at all. It's pretty good. 
 
Q. Martina, after such a wonderful year you've had this year, how do you look at next
year? Can you possibly top it? You've only had two losses the whole year.
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, you know, I'm very happy about my whole tennis game at all. I
just had a great year. You know, what can I improve? Sometimes I ask myself. It's a little
scary. I haven't won the French Open, so that's kind of my goal. That's the tournament I
want to win the most, and I haven't won that. I think I'm going to have many more years in
front of me to, you know, maybe win it one time. 
 
Q. Were you careful at the changeovers not to bump into her? 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I was watching (laughter). I was like, you know, either I was
faster than her. I was watching (laughter). But she, too, she was like not making the same
mistake. But it was funny. 
 
Q. Martina, after Wimbledon, Chris Evert said in a way the one sad thing about you
becoming No. 1 was that you inherited slightly by default because Steffi Graf was absent.
Were you disappointed that Steffi wasn't here for this tournament, and do you think it
would have been any different had she been here?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: You always kind of talking about Steffi Graf. It's not my mistake she's
not playing here. You know, whenever she's going to come back, maybe for the
Championships, she's for sure going to be always a dangerous player. You know her name,
she's got so many Grand Slam titles. She had such a big career. Whenever she's going to
come back, she's going to be a tough player to beat. But having Williams on the other side
is not, you know, the easiest thing in the world to do either. So I think you don't always
have to talk about the past, but about the future, new generation like Venus Williams,
Kournikova, and Lucic. Also Lindsay Davenport and Monica Seles are nothing to forget
about, too.  
 
Q. Martina, for the record, what's the name of the horse that perhaps kept you from
getting a Grand Slam Championship?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: It was just Tina. Tina was her name. It wasn't my horse. I'm not riding
her anymore. 
 
Q. Whose horse was it?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Just a friend's horse. 
 
Q. It was like many people were talking about the only thing that can keep you away
from winning are horses.
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: But actually before this tournament, I was testing a new one. I was
never jumping as high as before this tournament. I was coming into this tournament with
having a great fun out there. 
 
Q. You and Venus seem to get along okay. The other women have complained about her
attitude. Do you consider that she has a problem with attitude or is it just you that's a
nice person?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think it's always hard when you're the newcomer on The Tour. It
wasn't very easy for me, too. The other players just look at you. They don't know what to
expect from you because everything is -- or everyone is talking about you, the media pay
so much attention. If you don't bring the results, everyone is kind of not very happy
because you haven't shown anything to the other players. I think her first statements,
they weren't very nice against the other players. Because, you know, she said, "I'm
the best player in the world." But she has changed very much from the other
tournaments. When I saw the last two, three entries she made, she change a lot. She became
a much nicer person on The Tour. 
 
Q. Was that first set almost too easy?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I liked it the way it was (laughter). It's like, you know, the US
Open Finals. If you win the first set 6-Love, okay, I take it. But I still had to make my
game. 
 
Q. But I mean at one point at 5-Love, you swatted at a ball that was clearly long. You
were obviously having fun out there. Was it not enough of a challenge at the beginning?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: She made a lot of mistakes. I think she was pretty nervous, you know,
being in the Finals. So was I. I just was kind of trying to hit the ball back, let her
make something out there. I just played very good tennis. 
 
Q. Chris Evert has often talked about your incredible balance on the court, the way
you're always on balance, almost always when you hit the ball, the way you walk around the
court, the way you receive serve. Did your mother teach you how to balance on a court or
is it something that's just natural for Martina Hingis?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I think your charisma comes out on the court, the way you live your
life out of the court. Tennis is not the most important thing I want to do in my life.
It's still right now, you know, I couldn't be without it. But especially when I fell off
the horse, I kind of remember, "Well, I can't be without tennis anymore, I love this
game so much." Just the charisma, I think, it just comes out natural. 
 
Q. I didn't mean so much things, different things in your life, but the way you always
seem to be ready to hit the ball.
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: That's everything that comes up with your life. That's the way you show
everything on the court, how you're in person, you show your balance, just your game, your
charisma on the court. I think the way Williams is out of the court, the way she also is
on the court, she's always trying to do something, always having a lot of fun. Everyone is
the same on the court and off the court. 
 
Q. What is the most important thing you want to do in your life? You just said tennis
is not the most important thing you want to do in your life. What is the most important
thing? 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I said right now it is the biggest thing I always want to do.
Especially if you keep winning, there is no way, you have motivation, you always enjoy
that. Especially in this final, I had so much players, especially when you hit great shots
you want to hit. It's the greatest thing you can do. 
 
Q. You've had a fabulous year, Martina. Is there one moment or one match which you
think years from now will be your favorite memory, favorite recollection of this year?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, maybe that one when I beat Monica at the semifinals of the French
Open. I've never been as happy as after that match, reaching the Finals, that was kind of
like more than having a victory there. 
 
Q. How big of an advantage did you have that you played in more tournaments than Venus?
How much did that help you today?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think that helped me. 
 
Q. A lot, a little?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: A lot, of course. But I can't manage her life. If she doesn't want to
play anymore, she reached the Finals. She just has a different way to get to the top. I
don't care what the other ones are doing. 
 
Q. Martina, during the Grand Slam tennis championships, in the ladies events, prize
money is so high, do you feel it should be best of five sets? 
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Blah (laughter). I played only once in my life a five-setter against
Steffi Graf. I'm not really that much into it, having the same thing again, getting
cramps. I know maybe I should be in better shape. I'd rather win it in three straight
sets. 
 
Q. Are there other interests that you have outside of tennis, other than really loving
the horses?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I do a lot of sports. I do skiing, aerobics, boxing, so many other
sports, rollerblading, biking. 
 
Q. Martina, was it almost good for you that Venus took away a lot of attention during
the two weeks from you, you were able to go on with your business?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think there was a lot of attention on me, how I'm going to do
at the US Open after having two Grand Slam titles, especially in the beginning when
everything on the front page was only me. Then it was nice that she also kind of made
something out of that, that she reached the Finals, for sure. 
 
Q. If there was any crisis for you in this match, it was in the ninth game of the
second set. She had rallied back to 4-4 and was serving at 30-Love.
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah.  
 
Q. At that point, were you getting a little concerned about how the match was going? If
you were, how did you turn things around back in your favor?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I knew I was up 4-2. I just gave up one game. I thought,
"Well, she was serving very well there." I shouldn't give up that one maybe.
Then it would look different. I was playing against the wind. She wasn't missing at all,
especially the last two games. I was like I had to make the points myself. Hitting it as
hard as you can always against the wind, I also get tired sometimes. I was kind of just
waiting for a mistake, just hitting big shots. But I knew if I'm going to lose that game,
I'm going to serve with the wind and that's going to be easier. Even if it would be 5-4
for her, I thought I would make it to 5-All and then it would be a good game. 
 
Q. How did you feel about the racial issue? Were you excited that she made it to the
Finals?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: About the what? 
 
Q. The racial issues, that so few black women have made it to the Finals. Did that
affect you at all?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: (No response.) 
 
Q. Are you excited about it?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I mean, it's always good to have new faces out there. Especially in
women's tennis, there are so many coming up now. The thing is, very nice to watch a Finals
like Hingis/Williams than having someone else there. I don't care that much about who is
on the other side actually. I think it's very good if you have all the people, all the
races, all the world playing tennis. 
 
Q. You say you ski. John McEnroe told other juniors to avoid skiing. Your legs. Don't
you think skiing is rather risky?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I always do the risky things especially (laughter). 
 
Q. Are you looking forward to next year and possibly starting a rivalry with Steffi or
proving to her that you are No. 1?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, as I said before, with Steffi, you have to wait what she's going
to do in the next couple tournaments, when she's going to come back. I don't know what's
going to happen with her. 
 
Q. Would your father have been watching this match?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: My father? I'm sure he was watching, yes. 
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT