US OPEN
September 1, 1997
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Martina, you've won the last three matches against Arantxa. Can you talk about the
history you have against her and what your feeling will be going into that match?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, you know, it's obviously a little bit more difficult to play your
doubles partner. But once you face this person on the other side, you don't think about it
anymore, to have fun, because she's your friend. We play doubles together tonight. She's
just one of my good friends on The Tour. We have a lot of fun together on the courts and
off the court. But we played each other in the last Grand Slam, in the French Open. So it
was also the quarters, that we played doubles before and after together, so I don't think
it's a big problem. You always want to win.

Q. How about your match against her here last year? What do you remember about that?

MARTINA HINGIS: Oh, yeah, that was a hard one. It was like 6-4 in the third. That was
my first kind of big victory over a Top-10 Player in a Grand Slam. Later on, I beat Jana
Novotna. I made the semis. So it was one of my biggest matches.

Q. Can you describe the difference in your styles, yours and Arantxa's?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, she's a very good runner at the baseline, so, you know, but she
improved her service and volley game pretty much because she's playing so much doubles
also. She can come to the net if it's like really short. I think we are pretty similar. We
both don't have the best forehands on The Tour. So I'm sure we're not going to see too
many forehand cross-courts. But, you know, we're pretty similar, pretty much baseline, you
know, good running, good points.

Q. You've advanced through this tournament so far with great ease. Did you ever feel
the burden of being acknowledged as the best player in the world, the expectations that go
along with that?

MARTINA HINGIS: That's just pretty much usual for me now, because this is the third
time I'm seeded No. 1 in a Grand Slam. I always brought the results I had to bring when
you're No. 1 in the world. I always felt the responsibility to do well at all the big
tournaments, and I did so far. So you just always want to be in the best shape you can be
in at the moment, and you want to do well in the Grand Slam tournaments.

Q. Martina, yesterday Venus Williams said that she was going to stop trying to hit
every ball hard; she was going to try and start mixing up her shots. You can't really win
here by trying to hit every ball hard. Do you think that too many of the women are trying
to belt the ball too much? I mean, you mix your game up a lot.

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I think that's just the younger generation. They try to hit the
ball very hard. It's very fast. It's not very easy to get the ball back if it comes so
hard to you. But, you know, when they don't have enough experience so far. But when they
will be on The Tour for like two, three years, they have to learn that, and they will. So
maybe she knows if you hit a ball as hard as you can, it doesn't mean anything.

Q. Why are you so wise so young?

MARTINA HINGIS: Because I never tried to hit the ball as hard as I could. I was always
the younger one, the smallest one. Well, not the smallest one, but just I never had the
power of a Mary Pierce or Steffi Graf, so that was just very simple for me not to hit the
ball as hard as I could.

Q. Is there a temptation, though? 

MARTINA HINGIS: I'm trying to get it harder and harder, from the serve and the
baseline. If you lead, you try to hit the ball very hard. Just for fun more or less.

Q. Is there ever a temptation, though, to hit the ball harder than you should? Is that
something that's difficult to resist?

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, because it can only -- you want to hit something special, harder,
the crowd loves it. You know that.

Q. Do you think of some players as the younger generation, a younger generation than
your generation?

MARTINA HINGIS: I think that's me and like Venus, Anna, Lucic. She hits the ball very
hard, too. So I think it's just the game of the young players. They just try to play hard
and fast.

Q. Somebody was saying today, I don't know if it's true, but as a professional, you've
never won 6-Love, 6-Love?

MARTINA HINGIS: I did.

Q. As a professional?

MARTINA HINGIS: As a professional? I don't remember. I don't know. Did I?

MARTINA HINGIS: Not this year.

Q. It was 6-Love, 2-Love today. I was wondering, would you be uncomfortable winning
6-Love, 6-Love?

MARTINA HINGIS: I don't think it's bad if you give up two or one games either.

Q. Would you try, maybe, to lose a game? Would you feel uncomfortable winning 6-Love,
6-Love?

MARTINA HINGIS: No. But you just kind of always have one game you just automatically
loosen up because you feel like, "Nothing can go wrong anymore." You just kind
of concentrate on your serve, give up one game because you can't concentrate all the match
through.

Q. But would you do it on purpose to make the other player feel better?

MARTINA HINGIS: When I played against Tami, it was like she made one game. No, it's not
because of that. You kind of feel, "Okay, I'm going to loosen up a little bit."

Q. Has this tournament gone exactly as you would have expected, your matches so far?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, yeah. In three matches, yes. That one two days ago, not really,
because I was always ahead. Kind of want to have sometimes even easier. I was always kind
of leading 4-2, then I lost two easy games, which I thought I shouldn't lose. It could be
easier there in the first set already. So far I'm very happy with my game, yeah.

Q. Martina, your serve, you've said, is not the strongest part of your game, yet very
few players are able to capitalize on that relative weakness. Any reason?

MARTINA HINGIS: I don't think it's that bad anymore, so that could be the reason.

Q. Martina, the other day you mentioned you seemed surprised that you had made over $4
million in your career. Do you play still for fun or do you actually think about it at
all, do you pay attention to how much money you're winning, how many championships you've
gained, or do you play for fun mostly?

MARTINA HINGIS: You kind of play for both. It's even better if you have fun and make
the money (laughter). That's the best thing about it, you know. You can't go out there and
think, "This is my job, I have to do it every day, every tournament. I always have to
travel." That's not me. If you don't want to do it, don't do it. It's fun. If you
have matches as I had so far, there is no point in not being happy.

Q. Martina, did you know a few years ago that you would be the dominant player in the
game already at this stage? Are you far ahead of anything you imagined?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, it was just coming. I mean, I was never really thinking of what
time or when I'm going to be at the top. Just everyone around me was telling me,
"Well, you have the game; you can do it". It's like everyone, my mom, they
always think, "You can become the best player in the world." I won so many
junior competitions, I've been No. 1 as a junior. I thought, "Well, maybe I've got a
pretty big chance to do the same thing in the lady's tournaments."

Q. Is that realistic, if you're No. 1 or a high-ranking junior, to think you can go to
The Tour?

MARTINA HINGIS: That happens a lot, especially mentally. You can win a tournament, you
can do well as a junior. I was so much younger. I never had any doubts on not being on
top.

Q. Did you see the other day Lucic against Novotna?

MARTINA HINGIS: I saw some of it.

Q. What do you think Lucic should have done to win that match, because she was very
close?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, that's just unexperience (sic). The most important points, in the
third set, she lost them. It's also hard coming back from four down, you know, just win
the match. You have to do so much against Jana, because she was very focused, very
concentrated. She missed so much in the first set, you know, it's hard to just keep going
all the match through.

Q. She was 3-1 up in the third.

MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah. Well, it's never over until you play the last game or the last
point. 

Q. Martina, commentary today said that one way you get fit is kick boxing. I haven't
heard that before. Tell us about that.

MARTINA HINGIS: Just normal box training, not kick boxing. I'm not very good in
gymnastics. I can't put my legs behind my neck or something.

Q. So what do you like of the boxing?

MARTINA HINGIS: I haven't done it for a long time because I was injured and I couldn't
do it. I was also sometimes a little bit tired to go there. It helped me a lot before this
tournament last year. I got in much better shape. It's just like the fitness workout. I
didn't hit someone else. We were just training.

Q. Martina, is there one player out of all the women left in the draw that you worry
about at all in terms of being able to upset you, and if so who and why?

MARTINA HINGIS: Well, you just go round by round. Every player is a hard player. Maybe
not today, that one. I felt pretty confident. I beat her after Wimbledon, so I felt, I
almost can't lose this match when I go on the court and play my usual tennis. Against
Arantxa, she has an aim, she won this tournament. For sure, she's going to do her best out
there. Me, too, hopefully. But Lindsay Davenport and Novotna is not an easy pair either.
On the other side, I'm not so far yet, so I just go by next match.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT