U.S. OPEN
August 31, 1996
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Well, this looked like it was relatively easy today.  Was it?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  It wasn't very easy because I only play two Japanese players.  I feel very comfortable today. Had very good match.  I'm very happy about how I played.  It was always close in the first games, always 30-All or deuces.  I made the last two points. 
 

Q.  What is it about the Japanese players that gives you trouble?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  They move very well and they play very flat.  It's not very easy to make the point from the first ball.  You always have to make big points.  They play very smart. 
 

Q.  You're one of three people that have beaten Graf this year.  What do you have to do to beat Graf?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  It's a very difficult question because I think I'm not the only one that you should ask this question.  I think you just have to go on the court and  think positive.  It's the first thing you have to do.  You go on the court sometimes and you resign already because if you don't make the first two or three points, she just keeps going.  Even if you lose the first set, like I did in Rome, on claycourt I think it's easier to play against her than on grass court, because she had a very good forehand and slice backhand is not very easy to play.  I think you just have to hit the ball and make her run a little bit.  You have to be quicker than her from the first point because she gives you a lot of pressure from the forehand.  It's never easy. 
 

Q.  Are you anxious to beat Sanchez Vicario in the next round?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I beat her once in exhibition, it's not the same.  I lost in Hilton Head on claycourt in three sets.  I feel very comfortable now in my matches.  I play very good game in this match.  It's nothing what I have to lose against Sanchez.  Try to do my best. 
 

Q.  Martina, you playing your best tennis right now, do you think?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Some points I played really well this morning.  Probably I'm getting -- my movement is better, I'm stronger, my serve is better, I attack a little more from the first points.  Probably, yes.  We'll see in the next round if I'm playing better than last year. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT