U.S. OPEN
August 29, 1996
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. How do you feel about the way that you played today? Good match for you?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: In the beginning I played really well. After I started to play a little
unconcentrate. She hit some pretty good shots. I just couldn't put my serve anymore in. 
 
Q. Your mom is there for every match; she's your coach. Obviously you have a
relationship with her. How does that keep your life normal having her with you all the
time?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I mean, she started to play with me when I was two years old. I
couldn't play without her. She's my best friend and we always travel together from
tournament to tournament. She's my coach, my mother, my friend. 
 
Q. Do you guys do a lot of things together? What kind of things do you do to get away
from tennis?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: In New York, you can do a lot of things, always action, always busy. I
try to go to Broadway, some musicals. 
 
Q. Martina, what when you're not competing in tennis, are there other sports you enjoy
for fun?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah. I always do sports, horseback riding, soccer, basketball,
swimming, all sports. 
 
Q. Martina, what do you feel the keys to your game are as far as being able to advance
in this tournament?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Grand Slam, it's a hard time. You are here, you wait for three or four
hours sometimes, you never know when you're going to go on the court. You play every
second day. That's why I try to play doubles. It makes you keep going. I think I'm not
very good physically, older players. 
 
Q. You say you're not as strong physically as some of the older players?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I don't have the power. 
 
Q. You played other events. Do you think you play too much?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I could play only 15 tournaments, so I don't think it's too much. Every
tournament in the doubles, I got to the final. In Europe I play Fed Cup, three clay
tournaments. It was a little too much. Sometimes you have to do that. 
 
Q. Being younger than many of the women that you compete with, do you feel like there's
a difference? Are you into maybe different music than some of the older women on the Tour?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I don't think so. 
 
Q. You don't notice a difference?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I think mentally I'm pretty strong, especially on the court. I have a
lot of friends on the Tour, not big friends, but in the locker room the juniors that are
coming up, especially when I played the juniors, they play quallies, sometimes they get
through. I don't have problems. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT