XXVI OLYMPIC GAMES
July 25, 1996
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Why did it turnaround?

MARTINA HINGIS:   She played the first set, she played very good and very fast for me, and I had the first one very easily.  Now I play Sugiyama who is A completely different player.  After she won the first set, she thought, oh, now it is a little better for me.  After she came back, she played a very good game.


Q. How well were you expecting to do here?

MARTINA HINGIS:   Better than I did.


Q. Were you hoping for a medal?

MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, you never know.  But you are looking for every next match.  But I thought I could make something better, but third down -- I would have Novotna or Wiesner, all the players I would play I beat already, so I thought I would have a very good chance, yeah.


Q. Did she play in any unexpected ways, somehow, that you weren't prepared for?  You said she played very fast.  I mean, did she play --

MARTINA HINGIS:   She was always the right way to the ball and she could play very good balls, especially backhand down the line was unexpecting.  You never know whether she play  cross or along the line.  She played very concentrated and very good, yeah.  Well, I didn't watch her match yesterday, how she played.  My mom was there.  She told me she played very good. I was maybe a little tired.  I feel pretty good also in the first match, but she played a great game.


Q. Do you consider the Olympic experience as the same as Wimbledon, U.S. Open?

MARTINA HINGIS:   No.  It is completely different.  I mean, there are so many athletes here and you see so many new faces.  It is great to be here once and see all the other sports, but it is great.


Q. How about in terms of winning, is that as important to you as winning Wimbledon?

MARTINA HINGIS:   Not anymore.


Q. That is true.

MARTINA HINGIS:   Maybe if you play good tournaments so you like it, but now if I lost second round, so I don't like it anymore.


Q. Will you stay here now and go to other events or will you leave?

MARTINA HINGIS:   No, I go home.  We play the doubles today and let's see what happens there.  If we win, so we stay; but if we lose, I go home.


Q. Is there anything that you did here that was special for you and different from a usual tennis tournament in terms  of meet anybody special, any athlete?

MARTINA HINGIS:   Yeah, I met so many new athletes especially from the Swiss team because we have -- we live in two buildings and so we see each other and for the opening ceremony was something different that you don't have in the French Open or Wimbledon.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT