U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1995
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. If you remember the practice session yesterday in preparation for this match, who do
you hit with?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I had a couple of double games yesterday and I practiced with Catalina
Cristea and that was it. Played the doubles match, so -- 
 
Q. What was your feeling walking out to stadium court in New York before this huge
crowd on a Sunday afternoon at the age of 14?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: It is not the first time that I have played on a Center Court, but this
is, of course, a special tournament. It is a different tournament and every Grand Slam is
a big -- is a big deal. And of course, in a certain ways it is a little crazy to be out
there at 14 years old. It is a different feeling. 
 
Q. I saw you get a little frustrated a few times today, throw your racket or get a
little mad. Are you starting to get a little anxious about wanting to speed up your
improvement or how are you on that?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I am not the only one that does that. It is certainly worse with the
men and it is also not surprising that when I am feeling frustrated inside that I don't
express it in some way or I don't show it in some ways. It is normal. 
 
Q. Gabriela was in here before, she said if she had any advice to give you it would be
to continue to have other interests besides just focusing your entire life on tennis. Do
you have any other interests and other things you do focus on?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Of course, I have other interests. It is mostly sports. I ride, I ski,
I play soccer, basketball; of course I have other interests. 
 
Q. What about boys?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I am 14 years old and I am only just turning 15, I think I have a
little time. 
 
Q. Do you feel that your service at this point is the biggest obstacle to beat the top
players, the very top ones?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, first I am limited in the number of tournaments that I can play,
so my progress is going to be slower in general. And the other reality is that Graf and
Sabatini and the other great players don't lose in the first round, so it makes it more
difficult to get to a higher point in the tournaments. And the other players play one
tournament after the other, and because I play less tournaments there is a lot of time in
between, it is more difficult for me to catch up in terms of points with the other
players. 
 
Q. Yes, but my point was, is does your service right now makes you feel uncomfortable?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Of course my serve could be better, but the serve was played and I came
back with it and I don't think that that is the reason why I lost the game. She is a
better player and she played very well. 
 
Q. Sabatini hits with perhaps more exaggerated topspin than virtually any player on the
women's tour. Do you feel you were adequately prepared to deal with Sabatini's topspin
today; particularly on her backhand side.
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Of course, I knew that she plays a lot with her topspin, but it is one
thing to play against her, it is another thing to practice with that. I was surprised with
how often she used it and that every 10 or 20 times she would change it and she would keep
coming back with the slice and topspin. It was a surprise. 
 
Q. Are you saying that it was impossible or very difficult to prepare for it?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: When one has never played against this other it is difficult to really
know and prepare for how that person plays and it is difficult just to get the ball back
to her. 
 
Q. How confident are you in your game and do you have the belief now that you will be
playing on this court for a championship in the future?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: I feel my game has steadily improved, and of course I hope that that
happens one day. 
 
Q. Since you were named after Martina Navratilova, how did your parents know you were
going to be a tennis player and what would have happened in your family if you became a
golfer?
 
 MARTINA HINGIS: Well, my mother was a tennis player and started me early on. My mother
played tennis in Czechoslovakia and she lived from that and so it is not a surprise that I
have become a tennis player as it is in the family. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT