CHINA OPEN
September 28, 2014
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q.   Pretty short turnaround.   You won Wuhan yesterday.   How were you able to come out today and be so effective?
  MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I think when you have a victory in your pocket, it always feels better to go out there.   I think we had a good warmup earlier.   You know, you just keep going.   Your mindset is on a winning streak. 
  I think our level is really consistent now to play against the best out there.   Matches like today, we just solidly have to win.   That's what we did:   our job.
Q.   You broke your opponents six times.   How were you able to be so effective with that?
  MARTINA HINGIS:   I think this is pretty much our strength.   We do really play well on our returns.   I mean, that's pretty much our weapon.   Then, you know, Flavia's serve is really good that I can move. 
  But I think we both have really good returns.   That's why we're able to beat players who serve well, like Kops‑Jones and Spears last week.   That's the key. 
Q.   In the second set you lost three games in a row, threw your racquet to the ground a little bit.   After that you won four games in a row.   What changed at that moment when you were a little frustrated?
  MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I mean, it was just one break.   We got broken back.   We were still not a break down.   It was just more disappointing that we lost that break again. 
  You know, we said, We're the better team, we have to stay focused.   That's what we did.   I think from that point on, we didn't lose too many points anymore.   We just got our mindset again and go for the weapons in our game, get it together. 
  Sometimes you get tired obviously.   That's what happens when you win a tournament.   We won comfortably the first set, were winning, then all of a sudden you have this kind of slowdown.   We were like, Okay, let's go, focus again. 
Q.   How do you think your partner played, especially her serve?
  MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, we won 6‑1, 6‑3.   At the end of the day it's a very comfortable win.   Of course, there's always one or two things that we can work on. 
  But I think overall we're very happy with our match today because when we needed it, we were there, closed it out. 
Q.   Last time you played China Open was seven years ago.   It was in the south.   We didn't have the new stadium built at that time.   Coming back in your third career, what are the emotions?
  MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I went earlier to see the center court and it's a beautiful stadium.   I'm very happy to be here.   It's really comfortable.   The hotel is really close to the site.   Everything is very grand.   You have a lot of space. 
  It's very professional.   It's very well‑done.   The event, it's a great event.   You just have to go out there, practice, do your job, and it's really comfortable. 
  Also today the court is really nice.   They're really like well‑positioned.   It feels good.   The spectators are really close.   It's a nice atmosphere on the court. 
Q.   I don't think you realized you have a huge base of fans here in China. 
  MARTINA HINGIS:   Thank you.   Well, I do realize because they're all there with the flags, cheering us on.   That helps.   It's nice.
Q.   What do you want to say to the Chinese fans?   When we grew up, we watched you play tennis. 
  MARTINA HINGIS:   Yeah, it's been 20 years since you were watching (laughter)? 
  It's nice to be back for me, get the support I've been getting, whether it's last week in Wuhan or here in Beijing.   It really helps. 
Q.   Obviously Singapore is on the line for you and Flavia.   Do you feel it's something you're looking forward to do this week in Beijing, try to win and try to qualify for the WTA Finals?
  MARTINA HINGIS:   Of course.   It's still not out of the question.   I think there are three or four teams out there that have the chance to qualify, and we're one of them.   We'll try to do our best to get to Singapore. 
  But I think we just have to take it match by match.   We just had a solid win today.   Flavia is playing singles tomorrow.   Just one by one.   Hopefully eventually it will be a dream come true if we can make there.   Of course, just after five tournaments, to be able to have the chance to go to Singapore would be awesome. 
Q.   What is the role of doubles in the tennis world?   Is it less important than the singles?
  MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, of course, singles is the priority to all the players, like it was for me in the past.   I always enjoyed playing doubles.   It's really fun.   I really enjoy playing with Flavia.   We formed a very good team.   The chemistry works.   So it's not just like playing doubles, but it's also enjoying it. 
Q.   Last night you were in Wuhan and today you are in Beijing.   It's the same for Kvitova.   She says she's a little bit tired.   How do you keep up with the conditions?
  MARTINA HINGIS:   I don't think she had to play today, so it's a little different.   But, of course, I mean, I think the most important is we have plenty of experience, me and Flavia.   It's not like we're rookies on the tour.   This court and the event and everything makes it really easy. 
  If you're a good tennis player, I think that's what we are, then you adjust and you adapt.   Whoever adjusts faster at the end is able to be consecutively victorious, not one lucky win here or there.   We're such a good team that we can adjust to different surfaces, balls, conditions. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT