DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2014
Martina Hingis
Flavia Pennetta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 HINGIS‑PENNETTA/Black‑Garcia
  6‑4, 5‑7, 12‑10 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   First, congratulations.   When the score was even at 10‑10, what were you thinking about? MARTINA HINGIS:   What...  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   What did you think when it was 10‑10?   
MARTINA HINGIS:   I was happy the match wasn't already over, because they had match point already then too.   They were 10‑9.   I was like, okay, another life, another chance.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   You have won the first championship of Wuhan Open.   What do you think of the court and the audience?   How do you feel about winning the first title in Wuhan Open?  
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, for me, it's already what I said on the court in the ceremony.   It's been a great week, first time, you know, in 20 years that there is a tournament in Wuhan, and they did an exceptional job.  
I think you can say about the first tournament when they put it up there is no negativities, and I think next year will be even better with the new stadium.   
It's like I don't know how ‑‑ you know, tournaments even in the world can still, you know, see that in Wuhan can put up such a great event.   It's been a fantastic week, and winning it is even the cherry on top.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Would you please say something to the audience here in Wuhan, given that it is the first time for them to have the opportunity to watch an international‑level event?  
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I think they, in the past, they watch a lot of Na Li on TV, and for the first time in reality, I hope they really enjoy women's tennis.   
I think today was a real good doubles performance for the first event, and then, you know, you have the Wimbledon finals in singles.  
I think for the first time in Wuhan is some great tennis.   
   
 Q.   (Through translation.)   Will you come next year?  
FLAVIA PENNETTA:   We will see (smiling).   
MARTINA HINGIS:   I hope so, to defend the title.   It will be definitely something nice.   You have good memory to come to a place, so of course hopefully we stay healthy and can play next year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT