DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 24, 2014
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   As far as I know, you do not have a plan for retirement in 2015.   So how will you choose the matches that you are going to play?   Do you have any goals in singles?
MARTINA HINGIS:   No.   Well, I think now playing the doubles with Flavia Pennetta, we have done some really great results like the US Open finals.   So definitely we have some goals or plans into the near future next year but no plans in singles, no (smiling). 

Q.   (Through translation.)   Would you consider playing with Federer in Hopman Cup if you have got the chance?
MARTINA HINGIS:   No.   I think that's already all arranged, so no. 

Q.   (Through translation.)   Today among the audience I have seen many staunch fans of yours.   Some even come from Switzerland, and they have displayed exquisitely made albums of yours.   So is that an unexpected surprise for you?
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I didn't really see the Swiss fans, but I saw the Swiss flags.   So that's very exciting that, you know, people still remember me here and they come to watch, and I'm happy that we were able to win the first match.   So grateful for the support. 

Q.   Can you give Li Na advice on how to adjust herself the most after retirement, both mentally and physically?   And you are always very healthy and fit even though you didn't play for a long time. 
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I think the main thing ‑‑I cover it up very nicely, you know, and I don't play singles anymore (smiling). 
It's like, ah, okay, everything‑‑ my body is fine (smiling). 
But I think the most important thing is to really enjoy what you do.   She's got plans, it seems like, you know, with the tennis academy.   And the most important is to have the people who support her.   She's got a husband, and I'm sure she's planning, like she said, on a family. 
Already she has plans in the future.   That's important to have something to look forward to.   She also looks very well, very happy last night, you know.   I think although it's a sad day for Chinese tennis that she's retired, but I think there is a new chapter that she can bring to Chinese tennis in the future. 

Q.   Now you already come back to the tour as a doubles player.   What made you make that decision to come back?
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I was coaching a couple players on the tour with Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova and Sabine Lisicki.   And especially with Anastasia, we were practicing and we played some doubles together.   Even though it was a practice match I felt really good, like I could play along, and I felt like, oh, I want to give it a chance and see how it works out. 
Especially now also with Sabine, we won the title in Miami.   Now with Flavia we have chances, you know, to ‑‑we had chance to win Grand Slam, so as long as you have success, it's easier to do and to play. 

Q.   You had a wonderful performance today.   What's your plan after Wuhan Open?
MARTINA HINGIS:   I think first I'm like very happy to be here in Wuhan, because it's a really beautiful tournament.   The volunteers, the staff, the welcome, and the stadium is amazing.   The hotel we stay at, I think it's one of the top‑notch tournaments.   I think surprisingly it's very well‑organized. 
And the second, we still have the chance to qualify for Singapore, playing in Beijing next week, and we'll see how we finish here, the next tournament.   Then we will see.   We still have a chance. 
I mean, we almost have to win both tournaments to qualify and maybe Moscow.   But, yeah, it's still there, the chance is still there, and that's the next things to do. 

Q.   Tianjin Open?
MARTINA HINGIS:   Tianjin Open, yeah.   But I'm not sure.   Right now I'm just going to go visit and see. 

Q.   I want to know how many more years you will plan to continue to play tennis.   And second question is what is most important part you will enjoy in your tennis career in the next several years?
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I think I can't answer this question how long I will play because it's also partly if my body is going to stay healthy and I will be continuing to have some success.   I think that's really the key, and to be able to enjoy it. 

Q.   What is most important part you will enjoy in your tennis career?
MARTINA HINGIS:   Oh, well, it's being able to win matches like today or hopefully in the near future.   And what I enjoy, it's the competition, the challenge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT