ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 5, 2014
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions.   
   
 Q.   Why have you come back and what have you missed the most?  
MARTINA HINGIS:   For different reasons.   The main reason was when I was helping Anastasia last year, she ended up winning a singles tournament and ended up winning the Madrid tournaments in doubles.   
We also practice together.   We played a practice set against Vesnina/Makarova.   I thought maybe I still had some matches in me and maybe I should try that.   
Obviously it worked out great with Sabine in Miami.   That was my dream to come true that I was still hoping to be able to win big events as we did in Miami.   So that's why.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever think of coming back in singles as well or no?  
MARTINA HINGIS:   No, that's a whole different story.   Doubles you have a half court to cover.   That's enough already sometimes.   It's not only the pressure that you have, but it's the physical part.   
This is a lot easier just to play doubles, yes.   Sometimes like TeamTennis I play some singles, but it's only one set.   It's completely different format which suits me really well.   
But, yeah, no, you have to have a completely different attitude and dedication to play singles.  
   
 Q.   We're seeing players from the '90s.   What is it that's allowing players like yourself to keep playing like Kimiko Date?  
MARTINA HINGIS:   You can't compare Kimiko Date to normal people.   I think she's a real exception.   She really gets hot, is more into travel, is still able to produce amazing tennis.   
She was running marathons when she wasn't playing.   I wouldn't do that.   I admire people who are so into sports and great athletes like she is.   That's the only way you can survive.   
   
 Q.   Do you see yourself playing at this level?   
MARTINA HINGIS:   I don't want to play one or two matches.   I'm there to win the tournaments, not just to participate.   That was not me, whether I played in the past, when I had the comeback.   Already in my comeback, I was 10 years younger, like I won a couple tournaments.   I felt like I had a chance to win a Grand Slam.   But I wouldn't do it if I didn't feel like I had a chance to do that.   
   
 Q.   There's a big rising star in Canada that's coming up, Eugenie Bouchard.   What do you know of her?  
MARTINA HINGIS:   I liked her a lot since the first time I watched her and played her like in Liverpool exhibition like four years ago.   I said right away, This is somebody I would love to work with.   She is a great player, has a great attitude about the game, about the tennis, about her progress.   
I think she always had great potential.   Now she proved it.   She always peaks really at the Grand Slams, which shows that she can be a true champion.   
   
 Q.   Second tournament with Flavia.   Talk about your partnership.   
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I was lucky to get her for Wimbledon, then we realized it's a good chemistry, it's a good fit.   We complement each other.   
Today was not always the best tennis, not everything was perfect.   But a win is a win, so I'm happy.   
   
 Q.   What do you think is your heritage in singles tennis?  
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, you would be the ones.   You're the ones who are writing about it, so...   
   
 Q.   What are you most proud of?  
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I think not being super strong or athletic.   I don't know, I didn't have like a big, big weapon, but I had my all‑around game.   I was a very complete player.   I saw the game well.   That's what people always like remind me of.   They miss my game, the smartness, the cleverness.   I think that's a nice compliment to have.   
   
 Q.   Going back to Bouchard, you said you'd like to work with her.   
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, when I was in the French academy with Patrick, I was like, That would be a great girl to have in the group of young girls.   I think they even talked.   But she has her group and she's doing well, so she shouldn't change everything.   
She always had great coaching, whether it was Nathalie Tauziat before.   She always had great foundations.   
   
 Q.   You had success at a young age.   She's a bit older but still young.   What is difficult when you're that young having so much success?  
MARTINA HINGIS:   There's nothing difficult about it.   The only thing sometimes is the media.   When you're on the court you feel kind of like safe.   That's the ground you feel comfortable and safe because you know you've had some success.   That's one thing you can do well.   So I always felt good on the court.   
Outside the courts, of course, when you're young, you don't always make the right decisions.   You don't know everything about the world.   You don't know everything about everybody.   Also we're very protected.   
When you're older, you get more smarter and more educated about things like this.   This is much more help.   
   
 Q.   Coaching Eugenie Bouchard, what do you think you might be able to add to help her get to the final level of winning a Grand Slam?  
MARTINA HINGIS:   She made two semifinals and the finals, so I think sometimes there is a little bit already.   She's doing just fine and she's in a great direction.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT