WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 14, 2013
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Martina, please.

Q.   Martina, it looked like you were having a lot of fun out there today. 
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, after 4‑2, yes.   And then, obviously, when we start coming back, it was like an extra.   We had our chances definitely.   Well, next time, right?   Next week, next time.

Q.   The stands were packed on that court.   What's been the reaction of the fans to you?   I know that you've only had a couple tournaments, but what has been the reaction? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, you saw it, right?   It's been amazing how many people have come out and supported us.   And the feedback that I get, It's nice to have you back and all that, it's really nice to have that feedback. 
I mean, it's really obvious when the stands are packed for a doubles match, right?

Q.   Do you feel like you're in an underdog role? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, I was already back then.   When I came back for the singles in 2006 and '07, it was already a similar situation.   But obviously it's nice to see that people have missed my game. 
Sometimes I smile because I'm just happy to have made a nice rally or a nice point, a nice shot.   So definitely not going to cry about it.   (Laughter.) 
So I think I was able to prove that I can still play some good tennis, and that was nice, yeah.

Q.   So were Errani and Vinci doing anything in particular that you think helped them? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, it was just more consistent, more solid on the big points.   I think today that was the biggest difference.   That was the key.   You know, like the 3‑All pointers, I think that's the biggest change since I've come back anyway.   It's so big, those points.   It can go either way. 
They're the ones who have been around the last six years, and they've become a very solid team and win Grand Slams and No. 1 in the world.   Obviously they do something right.

Q.   Is it just a matter of their focus during that point? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   Well, it's like two days ago when we came back.   We won those points, right, like compared to today.   That was the difference.   For Pennetta and Medina, they gave us those opportunities and we were able to take them; today was the opposite. 
We started off well.   We had our opportunities, but those key points, that's whenVinci served well both times on me.   Like right in the corner to my forehand, skid off the line, and there is not much you can do.
Pennetta gave me a serve and I can do more, and I think that's the difference.   Serve is such a big key in today's game, yep, especially in the doubles where you have not much space.

Q.   Martina, the past couple of years you have been coaching some players, including Hantuchova.   Do you think that kind of experience helps you as a player? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   It was nice to be able to play with them, of course.   That kind of brought me back into tennis.   Because at first, when I retired, I didn't play much tennis in the first two years, and then I started playing more exhibitions and started working at the academy just outside Paris in Mouratoglou, right? 
So that kind of brought me back, and played a lot more exhibitions in the last two years.   You know, it was half‑half.   Some exhibitions, some coaching.   It was more of a consultant.   I wasn't like coaching.   There was a group of girls, young, upcoming girls that I was helping but not like coaching because they had their own coaches or their parents. 
With Anastasia, yeah, it was more one‑on‑one.   So that was a great experience to have been able to be so close to the top players and the top game of today.

Q.   How has your approach to the sport changed back from when you were 17, 18? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   I recovered much faster.

Q.   Don't we all? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   I could have played singles, doubles, and mixed the same day, and I came back the next day and I was all smiling and nothing was hurting. 
Today I play one match, and I'm like, Oh, my God.   I think the body is the most‑‑ she's like responding to me like, What are you doing to me?   But I think it takes time, and it will get better again, get used to it.   There's no choice.

Q.   But there are no plans for New Haven?   You'll go straight... 
MARTINA HINGIS:   No, no, there are.   I think right now it would be nice to get another match or two.   Hopefully.

Q.   How do you say about you partnership with Daniela?   Does it get better and better? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   We started off really well.   In Carlsbad, we played a great first match.   Second match, being up a set and 4‑2 against one of the top teams, Kops‑Jones and Spears, who won the two tournaments. 
We definitely had our opportunities today.   It feels the same.   We always get, I'm not going to say scared, but that we can play with them so well and actually having the chance of winning or at least getting a set or something, being ahead. 
So hopefully, that's going to cool down, and we know that we have the opportunities beating teams like that.   But we'll take those chances hopefully, yeah. 
That hopefully is going to happen soon.

Q.   When you see a player like Venus and she's still playing singles and obviously with what she's had to go through, did that motivate you that maybe I can still come back and play too? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   No, not really, because, when you lose as a player like her, it's not really encouraging because she plays well like first or second set and losing to players that she's not used to losing.   So, no, that's not encouraging at all. 
Serena, yeah, it's a different story.   She's got so much willpower, it's amazing.   I really admire how she can still get out there and motivate herself all the time over and over all these years. 
But they were always ‑‑ like they had many more breaks.   I mean, I had my break for three years, but, yeah, I was out there a lot younger.   And I don't have the same body as them too. 
So it's a little bit different when you can hit four aces in a game.   I mean, I don't have that weapon.

Q.   What kind of expectations do you have as a doubles team? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   I mean, obviously, we went into it with not having big expectations.   Just like touching the ground.   But I feel like right now we have the level of beating and playing with the best out there. 
Yeah, also sometimes it would be nice to beat one of those players.   You have to beat those teams to really have the total confidence, yeah, to be able to win tournaments.

Q.   Speaking of motivation and the breaks, do you think Kimiko got that break? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   It's unbelievable at her age.   I mean, yeah.   I mean, I've been saying that over and over.   Like she must really love tennis.   I mean, I do too, but sometimes, at some point, you kind of slow down.
But she's like a Duracell bunny, right?   She's unbelievable.   Keeps going and going and going.

Q.   Have you given any thought to when this thing might end, or you're just still so happy to be back in it? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   I just take it as it comes, one at a time.

Q.   Particularly, have you got a wild card for anything?   Have you asked for the US Open? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   US Open is pretty much confirmed already.

Q.   And in Switzerland, of course, we are very happy to have a junior champion at Wimbledon.   Is your name linked with her?   Have you trained with her?   Have you played with her? 
MARTINA HINGIS:   I watch all her matches, obviously, with my mom training her.   So I watched pretty much all the matches she played at the French and Wimbledon, except for the finals, because I played at the same time unfortunately. 
But like the minute I finished, I ran over and congratulated her.   So it was nice, yeah. 
You should know better than that.   You know it.

Q.   I want them to know. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT