WORLD TEAMTENNIS MEDIA CONFERENCE
June 15, 2010
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   ROSIE CREWS: Thanks for taking the time to join us for today's conference call with Martina Hingis, who is here to talk about her return to World TeamTennis this July.   
     I speak for all of us at World TeamTennis, how thrilled we are to have Martina back playing for the first time in World TeamTennis since 2006. She's going to play the entire 2010 season for the New York Buzz, which are based in Albany, New York. She starts on July 5th in Albany and during the course of the season will play some of the best names in the game right now with matches against Venus and Serena during the first week, and Kim Clijsters later on.   
     She will be playing six home matches in Albany and one in Glens Falls, New York; and road matches in Philadelphia, Boston, St. Louis, Springfield, Missouri, New York City and D.C.   
     Martina first played World TeamTennis in 2005 for half a season and only dropped one set the entire summer, and led her then team the New York Sportimes to the WTT title. So I don't know that opponents are going to be excited to have her back, but I know we are, fans are.   
     Actually this week on WTT.com we're counting down the top 35 impact players, in World TeamTennis to celebrate our 35th season. We're down to the final three. Fans are selecting that. The final three are somebody we all know named Billie Jean and two people named Martina. That's pretty good company.   
     Martina joins us from England today where she's playing in some exhibitions and will play in legends doubles at Wimbledon with another WTT player Anna Kournikova of the St. Louis Aces.   
     With that introduction, let's go to the first question for Martina.   
  
  Q. Martina, have you been to Albany at all? What are your plans for the summer? Have you seen Albany yet?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, I have been to Albany. I think I played in my 2005 season. That season was very good for me, so I think I had quite a successful match over there. You know, I really like playing there.   
     You know, I have good memories in general from the World TeamTennis. It's a great team I'm joining. They won in 2008. They won the title. I know they've been very solid over the last year. So I'm looking forward to be on the team.   
  
  Q. How fit are you? You haven't played in a while. How fit are you to take on some of the best players in the world this summer?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: I don't have that easy of a schedule, do I (laughter)? It's like the Eastern Conference, playing the Williams sisters, Kim Clijsters. I'm glad that I get a little bit of preparation playing over here in England some exhibition matches and playing Wimbledon with Anna Kournikova in the legends doubles.   
     As much as I can do. I haven't played in three years a player in the top five. That's the No. 1 and 2 in the world, so I just have to bring my best tennis, I guess.   
  
  Q. For those who aren't familiar with the WTT, how competitive of a match will the people of Glens Falls expect between you and Serena?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: Well ...they're going to be playing Wimbledon. I mean, of course for me, since I haven't been playing in the last three years, it will be quite interesting to be playing the No. 1 player in the world. We've played a lot of matches in the past, but I'm sure it's going to be different this time.   
     But, you know, I love the competition, I love the challenge. We'll see. I'll definitely have to come out with really good tennis if I want to do something.   
  
  Q. What kind of atmosphere do you expect to have at this event?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: I mean, it's always great atmosphere because you have the teammates rooting for you. It's totally different when you play tournaments, it's mostly quiet. Here you have the music playing, the team, everyone is rooting for you, you have the coach on the court. I really loved when I played the season 2005 and 2006.   
     So I'm returning back to TeamTennis because I loved it. I liked the team spirit, as well.   
  
  Q. You've been talking about it's been a few years you've been away from professional tennis. How have you been preparing for legends doubles and for World TeamTennis?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: Well, I'm playing now some exhibitions in England. I played last week at Nottingham. I'll be playing also in Liverpool and Manchester just before Wimbledon, before I'm going to play with Anna at the legends at Wimbledon. This is pretty much the preparation I've had. I've been hitting balls.   
     Obviously I played some matches against Savchukand Krajicek, who are ranked around 100 in the world. Definitely going to be different when I have to play the Williams sisters. I haven't been playing in the last three years that much. It will be definitely a great experience to have again, you know, playing the top in the world.   
  
  Q. What made you decide to have this comeback now? What made you decide to come back now?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: Because I love the game. That's like the first thing. And then I've had great memories when I played in 2005 and 2006. I played almost half of the season. We ended up winning for the Sportimes. It was a great time. I loved the team spirit. I liked just going out there and having a challenge, playing some tennis.   
  
  Q. Could you share with us some of your memories you've had specifically playing against the Williams sisters as well as Kim Clijsters when you were on tour.   
     MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, I was basically growing up with the Williams sisters when I was on tour. They came on tour in '94 and '95, just as I did. You know, overall we played like pretty much 20 matches, each of them, against each other.   
     I think we always brought out the best tennis in each other, kept us pushing. I have great memories. I think that was some of the best times in women's tennis. They brought the power game, which I tried to deal a little bit with the finesse. I think it was a great contrast every time we played each other.   
  
  Q. Were you committed to play WTT no matter who drafted you or were there only specific teams because of geography or schedule that you would have played for?  
     MARTINA HINGIS: No, I would have played for anybody. I really had great memories playing the season. I didn't care. I just wanted to play. I'm happy to be on a great team with some great teammates. So, you know, really looking forward to it.   
  
  Q. The last time you played World TeamTennis, you were like the (WTT Finals) MVP, had a great year, then you had a successful WTA comeback. If this goes well, would you consider playing on the WTA Tour at some point?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: I knew this question was gonna come up (laughter).   
     At this point I'm not considering a comeback. But, like I said, I love to play tennis. That was definitely a different time. It was five years ago when I decided to come back. I'm going to turn 30.   
     Like I said, it's a great experience to have. You know, just very much looking forward to it. Definitely see, you know, if I last the season. That's the bottom line. Since I only played half a season last time, I said, Okay, 14 matches in three weeks, that's going to be a lot of tennis, so...   
     Definitely working on it now, ready to be in good enough shape to survive it.   
  
  Q. What did you miss the most about playing? World TeamTennis has been innovative with coaching, the replays. The tours have picked up some of that. What other things would you like to see the tours adopt that World TeamTennis does?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: I don't know. It's like because when I'm growing up, I didn't really mind about having noise and this and that. I love the music part. I've always been a big fan of music. When you play the US Open, there's always noise. You have airplanes, other things, distractions. I wouldn't mind. I like to dance. That's probably one of the things at the Grand Slams that would kind of boost the people.   
     I mean, I don't know what else. The let calls slows down the game. In TeamTennis, you play the lets from the serve.   
     I don't know really. It didn't really seem that much different to me when I was playing the TeamTennis. I just like the team spirit. Tennis is individual, so it's hard to have somebody. You know, if you're not having a good day, somebody can take over. That's not happening in the real tennis world. So probably that's the biggest difference also.   
  
  Q. Martina, in the time that you've been away from the game, what is your frame of mind and attitude about tennis? Were there moments when you thought, Oh, the heck with this, I can move on, I don't need it anymore? If there were, how did you get from that point to maybe where you are now, wanting to come back?  
     MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, but I always loved tennis, so that never really stopped me from playing or anything. I always liked the challenge. I always liked the competition.   
     Playing TeamTennis, you know, like I did in 2005, like I said, I have great memories. To have a little bit of that competition, like the spirit back, that's what I'm looking for.   
  
  Q. When did the process start? Did somebody from World TeamTennis contact you or did you contact them about playing again?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: That's been like we never lost contact. I mean, ever since I played the season in 2005, and even before, you know, I was always seeing Billie Jean King at the tournaments. She's always been talking about World TeamTennis, if some year I wanted to play. Then 2005 was the season that I played.   
     It just happened naturally, I'd say. I always liked the team competition. Once you fall in love with it, you just always know, like, you have those memories and the excitement is different.   
  
  Q. When might you decide about a return to the WTA Tour and would it be just in doubles?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: I mean, we've had some talks. Not for the singles. I mean, I'm not considering a comeback. Like I said, I'm playing some exhibitions now. I'm playing the TeamTennis. I have no further plans at this point.   
     We've talked about doubles, yeah.   
  
  Q. There have been talks about doubles?  
     MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, with Lindsay in January I had some conversation. I'll see her at Wimbledon, see where we take it from there.   
  
  Q. You're playing with Anna Kournikova at Wimbledon. Is she a possibility for another doubles partner like you had in the past on the tour?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: We're going to play the legends. It's not the real...   
  
  Q. So Anna is not considering a comeback?  
     MARTINA HINGIS: We've been talking. We'll see how we do. We'll see how it goes.   
  
  Q. Will you have a better sense of your game after the 14 matches that you play for World TeamTennis, especially against the top players like Venus and Serena?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: Well, definitely. Playing now already some exhibitions over here in England, playing the TeamTennis, it always gives you an idea where you stand, where things are.   
  
  Q. I think I read somewhere that you said the women's game was kind of monotonous. Explain that. Who in today's game impresses you the most?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: Sorry?   
  
  Q. I believe I read somewhere that you said the women's game was a little monotonous. Can you explain that? And who in today's game impresses you the most?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: I don't see that I said anything like that.   
  
  Q. Whose game impresses you?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: Well, at this point I think I was watching some of the games at Roland Garros. What a great win for Francesca Schiavone, who played the tennis of her life in the finals. Sam Stosur, they both deserve getting there.   
     I always like to watch the Williams sisters because, even like now at Wimbledon, they're always favored for the Grand Slams.   
     There are young, upcoming players who you always root for now and then. In the last three years...I don't know if I would exactly pick somebody.   
  
  Q. How confident are you with your health? I know you've had injury concerns in the past. How has that been for you?   
     MARTINA HINGIS: I'm good. I'm good. I hope I can say the same thing when I'm finishing the TeamTennis (laughter).   
     ROSIE CREWS: We'll take care of you, I promise.   
  
  Q. You said you had some discussions with Lindsay about doubles. Lindsay Davenport?  
     MARTINA HINGIS: That's right.   
  
  Q. Seems like you were both at the top of your game at the same time. Do you want to rehash some memories? You had a rivalry going.   
     MARTINA HINGIS: Yeah, I think we've been around for a long time, pretty much the same time at the top. We've had, like I said, some great matches, semis, finals at the US Open. We only played once doubles together. That was one of the great experiences, as well.   
     I think she's even going to play mixed doubles now, is the latest I heard. She's excited about playing.   
     ROSIE CREWS: Lindsay will be playing World TeamTennis this summer for the St. Louis Aces, so we'll be seeing a lot of Lindsay.   
     Last question, please.   
  
  Q. Martina, it's a big deal that you're coming to little Springfield, Missouri. We have lots of kids here who are aspiring tennis players. Will you look forward to interacting with fans and will you make yourself available to talk to some of these aspiring players?  
     MARTINA HINGIS: Absolutely. That's one thing I can give back these days. I'm a little bit older, a bit more experienced. You don't always have the opportunities like I had playing tennis. I assume there are things like that with children. Definitely I'll make myself available. I'm sure it's going to be organized to hit with the kids at some point.   
     ROSIE CREWS: That concludes our call. Thanks again, Martina. We appreciate you calling in from England today. Good luck at Wimbledon with Anna. We'll look forward to seeing you in World TeamTennis this summer.   
     MARTINA HINGIS: I'm looking forward to it. Thank you.   
     ROSIE CREWS: Thanks for taking the time and have a great day.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT