U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2007
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Today was a very tough day for seeds in your half of the draw.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  By the time your match started, both Nadia Petrova and Maria Sharapova had left the drew with losses.  Did that play in your mind at all today?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, yeah.  I will obviously see that it's tough conditions ever comes today with the wind and this and that.  I knew who I had to face was.  She was No. 1 junior and played very decent in the first couple rounds.   
 I mean, she can play.  You could see today definitely it's like a tournament where the youngsters succeed.  You know there was like Radwanska who is 17 or 18.  So it is Paszek.  I guess probably even year younger just.  She won against Patty.  It was the third against Petrova/Szavay.   
 So you can see the new generation coming up.  They're very dangerous.  I knew it's not going to be easy.  My mom texted me.  She said, Watch out.  But I was.  I was awake.   
 First set was really good and I was able to change the momentum, but she never pulled back or anything.  She definitely stepped it up, you know.  No free points anymore.   
  
  Q.  You make an interesting point.  It seems that the media, myself included, seemed to not give enough credit to the more unknown younger players coming up.  Seems like there's two-tier system.  Hingis and Williams and now the Jankovic and Ivanovic and Henins, and then there's a bunch of other people that seem in the first early rounds they go.  Are we missing something completely?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I mean, thi is the first tournament that they every passed -- like for her, it's the first time she's in the fourth round of a Grand Slam.  So you cannot write a story about somebody who's never won anything.   
 It's just like first time I was 16 that I made the semifinal appearance here.  I had a name because I was a good junior and I was already No. 16 seed at that point.   
 But all these girls, you never know what to expect sometimes.  So far we've been able to hold them back, but seems like they've improved.  And this year especially there's a new group of youngsters coming up.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT