U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2007
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the excitement of playing in New York, the atmosphere at this tournament.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  It's great.  I mean, first when I walked out there, there was not as many people because Arthur Ashe Stadium is a lot of spots to be filled.   
 You know, towards the end of the first set and second set was great atmosphere because there was a lot of people.  It felt really like they were very into it.  I think towards the second set it was a very exciting match.  A lot of long rallies, good points in there, so it was good.   
 I'm happy it was in straight sets.   
  
  Q.  Good to see you coming into the net towards the end.  Really pushing yourself?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I'm trying.  Sometimes, you know, from the baseline, especially against the wind, it's very tiring, so you try to shorten up the points a little bit.   
 Like I did the dropshot the first point of the last game.  Just really tried to dictate and cut out the angles.   
 That's definitely the key to my game.  I know I can't overpower those girls, because she hit a very deep, good forehand, good serve.  Not as consistent but, I mean, yeah, you try to be faster than them because you get overpowered.   
 That's the bottom line in my game.  It's been like that for the last 12 years, so...   
  
  Q.  Can you compare how you feel about playing now as opposed to before?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I get this question all the time, for the past year or so.  It's my second year to be back, so nothing's really changed.   
 It's really just the appreciation.  It's there.  I'm very happy to be playing again.  I already did better than last year.  So, you know, I've feel like I've got nothing to lose out here this time.   
  
  Q.  Were you feeling hurt at all today or are you at a hundred percent health-wise?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I mean, it was a very intense last six days.  Always a lot of people.  Yesterday also with the doubles.  I mean, there was quite a wait.  You know, you get out here, it's 11:00, probably get out of here it's 7:00, 8:00.   
 So it's like long waiting working hours.  The intensity is short when you're out there, but it's a very long day so you try to keep it as short as possible.   
 Today hopefully I overcame kind of my little crisis.  I still played well.  But, definitely, the little spark which I had in the first match, I mean, yesterday I felt really good in doubles.  Sometimes the intensity, you have to watch out that you don't overdo it, but still do enough.   
 That's the key in Grand Slams.  That's why there is a champion at the end of the day holding up the trophy who lasts the longest.  You're not allowed to make any mistakes over two weeks.   
  
  Q.  Were you feeling tired today?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  No, I mean, a little bit when you're trying to be intense.  Like I said, there's so much going on, so much action all the time, and so many people you're looking at.   
 You know, first match you always try to focus.  I felt really good, and also yesterday.  But that's the reason why probably top players -- not probably, but for sure, you have to try to cut down the hours out here.   
 And then also it took us an hour to get out here this morning.  It's just all these little things which you have to try to put it all in one.   
  
  Q.  Do you ever get nervous anymore?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  When I don't feel a hundred percent, yeah, I get nervous because I know I'm not probably at my best at that point.  But I haven't felt really nervous -- I mean, it's good to be a little bit nervous, to have that tension to go out there.  You need that.   
 I feel like I've done everything in the last couple, three weeks or last month to give myself the best opportunity to do well.  You know, I mean, I'm in the third round now.  See how far it's going to take me.   
  
  Q.  You were sort of a dangerous floater for a while.  Can you remember a draw with so many of the serious contenders concentrated in one half of the draw?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  To be honest, I didn't really look at the draw that much.   
  
  Q.  Williams sisters are in the top half.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I know, pretty much it's very crowded up there.  It's not like -- right now in my position, I don't feel like I can underestimate anybody out there.  I mean, any opponent on a given day can come out and beat you.   
 I think I'm playing Azarenka next.  I don't think she's got such an easy draw next round.  I think she won, right?   
  
  Q.  Yes.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  She's a tough, up-and-coming player.  You never know what you're going to get.   
  
  Q.  Are you comfortable with what style you're playing now?  Do you know exactly what you have to do?  Does it depend on the opponent?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  No, I know my strength and weaknesses.  Today, yeah, probably -- I mean, my baseline game's always been out there.  It's whether I can put it all together.   
 I mean, served today not probably the best.  I mean, I came out when I needed it, especially at the end, you know, being down 5-4, Love-30.  That doesn't feel that great.   
 But then I served really well the next game, and still the last game was much better.  Sometimes that's when you have to come out and focus.  It was also a little hotter today, I felt, especially in the second set when you do a lot of running.   
 Although in Florida it's been very hot where I trained, still the intensity and the tension is a bit different when you really play seriously out there, you play a match.   
  
  Q.  Is the new racquet geared toward getting more pop into your serve?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, you know, you feel great, everything is going well, everything works.  Then, you know, sometimes -- I don't know.  You have to have the feeling that you try to have the best materials.  Sometimes it's definitely also in the head, you know, what works.   
  
  Q.  Is it geared towards getting a little bit more power in your game?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I mean, I've always been more a defense player and then try to get into an offensive position, so I feel like it's helping me in that way, I guess.   
  
  Q.  You used successfully a combination of dropshots and lobs out there today.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  You try to mix it up, to give the opponent a different look every time.  I think the crowd enjoyed it, too.   
  
  Q.  What's your strategy going into tiebreakers?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Try not to have one.  Try to win before (laughter).   
  
  Q.  But put in that position, what is your thinking going into them?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I think overall I've done pretty well in my career in the tiebreakers.  I think once you get into that stage, you're a good player and you're able to hold and last with the opponent.   
 I think it's the intensity which you have to really bring into a short amount of points.  I mean, it's pretty intense for like five minutes.  I mean, I've always trained to be focused and intense.  So you have to bring it on and bring the game.   
  
  Q.  A player like you who has accomplished so much, can you really go out there in a match when you're into a third or fourth round and really say, I have nothing to lose?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  No (smiling).  I do, I don't.  I mean, obviously, you know, like I said on the court in the interview, I feel very privileged to be able to play on Ashe Stadium.   
 Not everybody gets to play out there, especially not when you're seeded 16.  But it's nice that I'm given the chance and opportunity to play out there, show myself from a good side.  I mean, that's the occasion when you really have to step out there and do well.   
 I've always done that in the past.  I mean, obviously made some good experiences and some good matches out there, some memories.   
  
  Q.  But you wouldn't be in this tournament if you didn't think if you play at your level you can do some kind of damage?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yes.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT