WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2007
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Martina Hingis.   
  
  Q.  How much of that was down to Laura and how much to you?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  She started off well.  I think she served very well, made it hard for me to get into rallies, high percentage first serve.  Didn't have too many chances on her serve.   
 Second set definitely had chances, but she didn't really miss much.  She dictated well from the baseline.  It was like 30-All, 30-Love, deuces back and forth.  She ended up winning the games, which were important, yup.   
  
  Q.  What where you not possibly happy with today in your game?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, like returning.  I mean, every time I had like second-serve opportunities, I'd miss some easy ones.  Yeah, especially in the first set, everything was like I don't know how much it was, but it felt like everything I missed by a couple inches.  The confidence goes down when you want to be attacking.   
 Yeah, so, my serve probably wasn't the greatest either.  I don't know.  Just like here and there, a point here, a point there, felt like would maybe help me get out of things, but didn't.   
 So keep going.   
  
  Q.  Should you have been playing this tournament?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I think overall I shouldn't, shouldn't have.  So I see this definitely as a success, having won a couple rounds, come through the second after being down match points in the first match.   
 But definitely had chances to get over.  You know, the draw was quite open.  Wish I had done better.  At the end of the day, like I said, I'm happy that I'm getting healthier again.  That's the most important thing.   
  
  Q.  Could you describe your sort of state of health, how good or bad it is, how much it's getting better.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I don't know.  I can't really answer this question because I definitely still feel there is something going on, still some inflammation.   
 I mean, I haven't really been able to run that much.  Workouts are just the bike, things without pounding.  I used to run a couple hours a day.  When you can't do that, definitely there is some cardio work which needs to be done, but I haven't been able to do that yet.   
 We'll see.  When I get back home, do some couple more tests, MRI, see how it is.  Right now, during the tournament, I didn't want to know how bad I am (laughter).  You know, just I'm happy overall, so.   
  
  Q.  Are you confident it will get better?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah.  I mean, I tried everything possible.  I was doing like rehab and stuff four, five hours a day, lots of stretching, lots of relaxing the muscles.  So actually the bone has, you know, some space to breathe, can heal.   
 But, I mean, pounding and playing tennis and still working out doesn't help.   
  
  Q.  When you had the foot problem before you got to a point where you couldn't compete on the terms you wanted to compete at.  Do you think you'll be able to get to the point you can compete on the terms you're happy with?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I said after Berlin, I won't come back until I'm super percent healthy.  But then it gets kind of tiring when you just watch others.  That's why I didn't want to miss out.  I mean, I had to miss out on the French Open.  I just didn't want to miss Wimbledon.   
 I mean, probably at the end of the day, it wasn't like the smartest thing, but at least I gave myself a chance.  I'm getting into better condition instead of not doing anything.   
 Yeah, I mean, like this time around, the US Open is a long way ahead.  Hopefully until then I can definitely do whatever I need to do and have some good preparation now four or five weeks until the next tournament.   
  
  Q.  Anna-Lena Groenefeld complained about being harassed by her coach.  Your compatriot, Patty Schnyder, used to have problems when she was younger.  What can be done to help girls growing up, striving to be tennis professionals, to protect them?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I'm probably the wrong person to ask.  I don't know.  I've always had very healthy relationships.  I think it's important to have the parents around, especially on the women's tour, on the girl's side.   
 I don't know.  Me and my mother always had a great relationship in that case.  I didn't have those problems.  But I don't know.  I mean, it's a tough world out there.  I don't know.  It's not only about tennis players.   
 I think in general, you know, you have that happen all the time, which is sad.  I think people, it's individual, very individual.   
  
  Q.  You said I think after your first round match you never lost on Court 2.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah.  I was happy to go on Court 2 again.  Laura, I definitely have to give her credit.  She played well.  She took advantage of me having not always the best points played, maybe not the best day at the office.   
 But she didn't let me really come back.  I mean, I had my chances.  I didn't take 'em.  Especially in the second set, the 3-All game was pretty big when she walked away with that.  It was kind of difficult to keep going.   
  
  Q.  Nothing strange or difficult about that court?  It has the reputation as the graveyard.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Like I said, for me it's a success to have played here at all, to be on the way up, getting better and healthier.  Definitely wish I had done better, but next tournament's come along.   
  
  Q.  Are you at all surprised that Laura hasn't made more of an impact on the circuit?  She's ranked in the 70s.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I only played her the second time, I think.  I can't tell a hundred percent the reason why she hasn't.  But she definitely has a good game, all-around game, grass court game, serves well, comes in when she sees the chance.   
 I don't know.  I can't tell you.  She beat me today, so...   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT