WIMBLEDON
June 27, 2007
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Martina Hingis.   
  
  Q.  A little bit easier than the first round.  How pleased were you with your play?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, definitely I think, yeah, I could only be happy that I was still in the draw.  So try to make the best out of it.   
 I think today first game was pretty key, first couple games, because I held serve being down 40-15.  Then also she was -- she had game points on her own serve and didn't make it.  Then I just kind of swept through it, through the first set, broke her down a little bit mentally that she could not kind of finish the games.   
 I think the score was a lot more than what the match kind of showed because 6-1, 6-2, I beat her like that last time we played in Australia.  It was definitely much more difficult today, especially in the beginning.  I just tried to focus and keep the momentum.   
  
  Q.  You said the other day that given your injuries, how little preparation you had, you didn't really see yourself as a contender for the title, but you just wanted to compete here very badly.  Do you now, after a match like this, begin to see yourself as a contender for the title maybe?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I'm just really looking to the next step because, like I said, I'm building up.  I can only get better.  Every day I'm winning on condition and match practice, also confidence.   
 When you only hit for like two weeks and you go into a Grand Slam like that.  I've always been very realistic in my life.  That brought me also always very far.   
 I think every day is great for me.  That was the same when I made the finals at the French Open after coming back from surgery.  You know, I was 17 only then.  It's been 10 years.   
 But I'm in a different position now.  I really take every match as it comes, try to make the best of it.   
  
  Q.  Does it seem like a long time to you, 10 years, that you won here?  Does it seem like a whole lifetime ago for you?  When you look at pictures from yourself at that Wimbledon, what do you think?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  When you look back, wow, it's been 10 years, I had a wonderful career I can look back to.  You think like you're going to play forever at 17.  You're like, okay, I'm going to win this and that.  When it's happening, you're invincible.   
 Then you're like, wow, I'm just actually really happy to be playing still.  I can be only proud of what I've already achieved.   
  
  Q.  How are you different?  When you look at pictures of yourself 10 years ago and now, how are you a different person now?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I'd say I was a little bit more chubby back then.  No, I don't know.  I mean, it was enough to win I guess.  It was good enough.   
 I think as a teenager, you're just really growing into a phase that you gain weight.  I'm definitely not proud of the way I looked.  I think it was also in the papers back then.  It's always in the tabloids in England.   
 You know, when I was holding the trophy, it didn't matter.  It was just a great moment at that time.  I grew out of it.  You have to be in better shape today.   
  
  Q.  I'm asking as a person, how are you different today?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  The tennis world is very fast-moving.  You have to mature early, otherwise the media's going to eat you up alive.  Definitely come a long way and met some great people.  Made a lot of friends on the tour.   
 Tennis always gave me everything I wanted.  I'm very happy that I was allowed to have a way like that.   
  
  Q.  You looked a little unfamiliar with the surroundings today.  Have you played on that court before?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Never.  But it's a good court, I guess.  Lucky 13.  I don't mind.   
  
  Q.  You came on court, shrugged your shoulders.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I didn't know where the people are sitting.  I was asking her if she knew where the players' seats area was.  That was the only thing.   
 I was once before I think meant to play on Court 13, and they changed me to 18 in a rain delay or something.  That's the only time.   
 But the last time I played there was like this week, I hit there with Kuznetsova.  It wasn't a great memory.  I'm like, I got to do better today than what I did.  I was familiar with the court at least.  I got to hit on it.   
  
  Q.  In your years away from tennis, did you find anything that gave you a similar satisfaction and enjoyment that tennis had done?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I think family, private life, health, it's different.  You can't really compare those things.  Definitely the joy on court you have when you win is one thing.  You have the family.  That's a whole different story.   
 If you're happy in your relationship, I think there's not many greater things.  Being healthy.  Maybe also my horses, when I go out, be by myself and the horses.  You just gallop as fast as you want.  That's also some great moments.   
 I think I was very fortunate to have great moments.  I'm looking forward to many more to have.   
  
  Q.  You were world comeback of the year.  What do you do the year after the comeback year?  What did you hope to do?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I didn't put any sights on anything particular.  I just wanted to come back and play.  That's all.  I was hoping definitely to make the top 10, to make it back there, to participate, to be able to play with the best.   
  
  Q.  Some of the slams are creating these regional swings, like the US Open Series.  They're talking about it for other majors.  Do you think the US Open Series has had any impact?  If so, how?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  The tournaments prior to the US Open?   
  
  Q.  Correct, that packaging of tournaments.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I think every player, if you are No. 1 ranked in the US Open Series, you win the US Open, you double up your prize money.  That's one thing that you know.   
  
  Q.  From a broader perspective, do you think it has any impact with the public?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  It's hard to say.  I mean, you're at the tournaments.  I don't watch that much TV.  I know I had to do a couple commercials during the event in Indian Wells.  I think they're pretty well done, and the buses that drive from New York, I think they're pretty cool as well.   
  
  Q.  Do you have contact with fans?  Do they talk about it to you?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Not really.  I don't know.  You tell me.  I'm not that much outside.  You're pretty much inside the arena, inside the world of trying to promote it.  Actually, I never had really feedback from the fans, how they respond to it.   
 It's your job to find out, not to ask me.  I mean, I don't know.  You have to tell me how the fans react to that (laughter).   
  
  Q.  What is it you really love about the involvement with horses?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I think it's a great creature.  It's a beautiful animal.  So powerful, gives you so much energy.  When you're out on the trails, just really the force of the horse.  You're kind of in control sometimes.  It's just amazing.   
 I always loved things with speed.  That's why I love skiing.  I like cars.  Horses are a different way.  It's a little bit of a risk, too.  I know.  I try not to go to the limits, push it to the limits, always know where the area of limits are.   
 I mean, of course, you can't always tell.  I don't know.  You're never alone.   
  
  Q.  Did you know the Wimbledon champion Maureen Connolly had a serious horseback injury?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, it can happen any time.  Other people have car accidents.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT