AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2007
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Your thoughts on an unpredictable match?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Why unpredictable?   
  
  Q.  It had ebbs and flows.  Couldn't predict what was going to happen.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I definitely -- I had the best chances today to beat her from all the matches we've played in the past.  The last three I made it to the third set last year here.   
 Confidence-wise she definitely had the edge.  But this time I definitely stepped it up.  In the beginning we both were very nervous.   
 But, you know, I came out stronger and I had my chances today.  Well, uhm, you better make it next time against a player like her.  It was definitely disappointing.  I felt like I was winning the match and I had all the things in my hands.  But she's a great fighter.  It was a great match.   
  
  Q.  How much did confidence have to do with what happened at the end of the match?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I mean, I still had a serve to go up 3-2.  She played a good time to equalize.  After that I started being a little flat because it took a lot of energy out of me the second kind of come back, and I had the advantage, the breakpoint to go 5-All, as well.  I didn't make it.  There were a few games here and there, things can turn around, a few points.   
 But, uhm, I have to take the positive and the best out of it.   
  
  Q.  With all that said, that's a match maybe, in your dominant form, that you win.  Strategy was right.  You were executing right.  She was having a lot of unforced errors.  Slipped away, and you let her back in.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I mean, that game to go up 2-Love, that really cost me a lot of energy.  It was a long game, long points.  There I should have taken a little bit more time to not lose my service game the way I did.  It was just a disastrous game (laughter).   
 Yeah, especially serving with the wind, the sun, everything.  That should not happen.  I just wanted to have the momentum going.  That's why I was kind of rushing.  But no point to rush at that point because I think I had her broken.  I just let her get back into the game definitely.   
 You know, at 30-All, the return, I knew where it's going.  It was like mentality, it kind of changes.  So just practice.  You know where it's going.  I can only do the best not making the same errors.   
  
  Q.  Do you get any satisfaction out of the pleasure that you give people who watch you?  You give us more tennis.  They used to think a dropshot was against the law till you showed up here last year.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I mean, today I always tried to give her a different look at the ball 'cause I think that's why she made so many errors.  If you let her go right and left, which she loves to do, to give her the same shot, I mean, that's suicide.  That's what I think I did very well.  That's why she was spreading.   
 I got her a few times, anticipated well.  That's why, you know, she was missing, because somehow I was already waiting for her shots.   
 That's my game.  I mean, that's how I win my matches.  That's why I was up early in the second set, with a set behind my back.  Well, I don't know.  It was definitely the most disappointing loss against her I've had.   
  
  Q.  Do you feel you're still on your comeback, or do you feel the comeback was last year and this year it's about winning these tournaments?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Comeback is long over.  I think that was after here pretty much already, then Tokyo.  It was a comeback tour to every tournament I played in, participated.  I think for me it was after the Australia trip and Tokyo.  I knew what I was facing.  I knew what I was capable of.  I proceeded my way to do things.   
  
  Q.  Based on her game, are you surprised she hasn't won more slams?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  You know, sometimes I think she was injured when she played the best.  Definitely the US Open, when she had the chances to win, to do well, she got injured.  The one time she won.   
 Well, Justine was a lot of times in her way when she played the best, or somebody else.  I don't know.  She can play great tennis.  But also like today we saw she gets a little nervous, a little tight.  That's when you have to make her hit an extra shot, which I tried to do.   
 It worked pretty much like a set and a half.  There you have to just be able to just keep going because she's not going to hand it to you.   
 But definitely, I mean, she's a player that in a way should have won more.  I think sometimes I know there is always a break mentally that some players you like more or you dislike to play.   
  
  Q.  Does it give you confidence coming out of here that maybe you will be able to beat the top four soon or are you saying to yourself, Maybe my best isn't quite good enough to beat Kim or Justine or Amélie or Maria?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I think I can only take the positives.  I mean, the way I was down a set and almost a break against Na Li the other day, I think I played a heck of a game against Kim today.  There is always room to improve.   
 I think during this tournament I got better each match.  If I can continue this way, I mean, so many times I feel it's just like so physical that those matches like against her I can't let slip away and think I'm going to make it in three sets.  But I have to win in straight.   
  
  Q.  So physical in a fitness sense, or just physical that they're hitting through you?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  No, I mean, she wasn't like hitting through me.  I don't think so.  Yeah, we both got a little tired at the end.  That's when you just have to hold on and stick to the things that you're doing.  But maybe like having a final shot.  It's like finishing off points a different way, not waiting for her to miss.   
 I mean, she was missing in the beginning, but not at the end of the match.  There just too have an extra shot to do something extra, yeah.   
  
  Q.  10 years ago you walked away from here with your first Grand Slam title.  How would the Martina Hingis of '97 fare this year?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I don't really remember.  That's really a long time ago, it feels like.  10 years is 10 years.  You can't change it.  I mean, the game moves on.  I think I've gotten better over the years.  I have strengths and weaknesses.  Sports just moves on.   
 I don't know.  I mean, what do you want to hear from me?   
  
  Q.  Are you able to quantify how much better or more complete a player you are now compared to 10 years ago?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I definitely think I'm a better player.  I think today I moved well.  I played well.  Just sometimes I would have probably mentally broken other players earlier.  I kind of had her, but let her get back in the game.   
 Today, like I said, it's more physical.  Some players wouldn't have come back, but she did.  It's more or less just because of that reason.   
  
  Q.  The tour now generally is tougher, deeper, the competition?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, yeah.  Like I said, against Na Li, it took a lot of energy.  The first round, it's more mental.  Before I was more fearless.  When I was 17, 18, those shots I would just make at 30-All, not missing a return, just give the opponent a chance to miss.   
 Today I'm sort of too tentative instead of, Okay, go for it.  I'm too nice.  That's what they were saying.  Like I'm too nice (laughter).   
  
  Q.  If she comes back, fine, but if she doesn't win majors, she's not going to like this life any more.  What is it like now for you?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  It's great playing her and everything, but I don't want to see her in the quarterfinals ever again (laughter).  It's like every time I get to the quarters I have to face Kim.  In a way, I'll be happy.   
 No, but, I mean, I enjoy matches against her.  Uhm, no matter what, sooner or later I would have to face her anyway.  I prefer maybe semifinals next time.   
  
  Q.  At least a couple times in the match you stopped play in the middle of a point to question a call.  Does that reflect a growing comfort with the electronic line calling system?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, there, I mean, I think it just -- it relaxes your mind because you know it's in or out.  You've given it a shot.  You feel like, Okay, this has gone for me or against me.  I think most of the time we were right today.   
  
  Q.  Would you have been hesitant in the beginning to stop in the middle of a point and challenge a call as opposed to playing it out, or do you feel you're reflexively doing it in matches now?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Like against Na Li, you have to be aware of what you're doing, if you're a hundred percent.  Most of the time I played it out.  Even though I felt it was a close call against Na Li, I never questioned.   
 But today, yeah, it was like a millimeter or something.  I mean, I think I was right to question the call because, I mean, if it's on the line, I was short anyway.  She would just (indiscernible) the winner off it.   
 I felt like, yeah, I mean, no matter what's going to happen, I don't win that point, so I felt like it was long.  Yeah, it was really close.  And the other time I felt like I was right, and the ball was in or out.  I think it just eases your mind you know it's in or out.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT