AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2007
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 

 Q.  You hadn't played Li before.  Did it take you some time to work out her game today? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, it did take me a little bit of time.  But we practiced in the past a couple or three times.  I pretty much knew.  She's not that new on the tour.  I knew what to expect. 
 But I was really nervous in the beginning.  She played well.  You know, everyone else knows by now she serves almost a hundred percent first serves.  Didn't really give me too many chances to do something. 
 I was thinking, Okay, if she can continue to play like that, it's too good.  I just tried to hang in there.  That was the most important thing.  That was the key, to win the last point. 

 Q.  Were you more nervous today than what you've been for other matches similar to that? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I was nervous in the first match.  Pretty much every one.  Somehow it's a different opponent.  Even the first point of the match already, she got that ball pretty good, and I missed that first volley.  After that I felt a little more pressure. 
 I don't know.  She just played really well, very consistent, compared to the other players, where they made a lot more errors at crucial points, but here I had to earn it.  That was the difference.  That's why she made the fourth round.  That's why she had such a great win against Safina.  I had to earn it. 

 Q.  She ran you around a lot in the first set. 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  It's funny.  Some players were like, You did a lot of running today.  I was, Yep, but I tried to make sure she did some, too.  I think she was a little more tired at the end of the match because I was able to turn around the momentum.  She started missing some easier shots. 
 I mean, you could tell by her expression that, you know, she was also worn down a little bit. 

 Q.  It's a good test of your fitness today? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, for sure.  That's the first time I won a three-setter this year so far.  Definitely happy.  And against someone like Na Li, it's quite satisfying. 

 Q.  Maybe the key game was the fifth game of the second set. 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  It was very important.  I think that's what turned around the momentum.  Holding that serve against the wind, against the sun, was quite key because after that she would just not be under the pressure, same as she was afterwards, because the sun started coming out.  It was very difficult to serve against the sun. 
 After I held there, she missed a couple of returns, which I was like, Okay, thank you.  I should take advantage of that because she wasn't missing up until that point too many.  That definitely gave me a new whole kind of life into the second set, yup. 

 Q.  You're 4-All with Kim Clijsters.  Where do you think the differences are between the two of you? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I think that's pretty obvious.  The difference is I'm more of a counterpuncher.  She's the more offensive player.  In the last year we had a great match here.  I was able to fight back.  It was a quite slow start. 
 I know I have to come out a hundred percent and ready from the beginning, otherwise I'll be run over.  That's the key.  I have a day rest tomorrow.  Just practice, sleep well, give myself the best shot. 

 Q.  You lost the first set in the tournament.  Can you talk more about what part of your opponent's game made you most uncomfortable?  Do you think she's a typical Asian player or not? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I think she had a great season last year where she kind of made her breakthrough.  She played well in Berlin, also making the quarters at Wimbledon.  I think she is quite typical, but she's also stronger. 
 Also mentally I think she started believing after that a little bit more.  A lot of times it's confidence that you know you belong to the top group, to the elite, and you can make it in the crucial times. 
 I think that's another step which she made.  Pretty typical, the game, yes.  Very flat, very strong.  Yeah, I was happy that I was able to break her down at the end. 

 Q.  After those six glorious years here, is the feeling coming back now? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  It never ended.  I mean, even I was here as a commentator, it's still a great tournament to come back to.  I don't know.  For some reason, it's always been the place where I feel most comfortable.  I'm like, This can't be it.  No matter what, this is not my last appearance on center court today, not this year.  Somehow that's what kept me alive.  It was the mental state of mind. 
 But I think here it's even more special, having done so well in the past. 

 Q.  I was told someone is organizing a mixed double in Prague, Hingis/Stepanek, against Berdych/Safarova.  Who is going to win it? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Really?  I haven't heard of that.  I don't think I will participate (laughter). 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT