U.S. OPEN
September 9, 2017
Martina Hingis
Jamie Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HINGIS-MURRAY/Chan-Venus   
6-1, 4-6, 10-8   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations, both of you.  Successful collaboration in relatively short amount of time.  Two Grand Slam titles.  Talk about what you were able to accomplish here and the last fortnight and today.  
MARTINA HINGIS: I think this one has been a little bit more dramatic from start to the end.  I think throughout this tournament sometimes, you know, it happens that you are down match point and you end up winning.  That's what we did.   
I think that definitely that match was pretty much the key, the turnaround, when the guy is serving to me, I'm, like, Okay, it's in my hands.  I'd rather it be probably in Jamie's hands, in this case.  Nothing I can do.  Just make him play.  We were able to dig that one out.   
I think the super-tiebreakers, we know how to play them by this time, at this point.   
I definitely believed, when we were going into it, I felt like, you know, we had a great first set, second, we let go a little bit, but in the super-tiebreaker, I know we can still lift it up and play great tennis.   
 Q.  Jamie?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, everything she said (smiling).  We had a great run.  I mean, you know, this scoring format is a lot more random than at Wimbledon, obviously, because you have sudden death, deuce games.  It's easier to break serve, I think, than or easier to hold onto your serve at Wimbledon, because you can afford to maybe mess up points and stuff.  But here you can't.  Every game is first of four.   
Like we played a great tiebreak.  The crowd was really into it.  There was a lot of noise.  Some crazy rallies going on.   
For us, it's like so much fun to go there and play and play in a huge stadium, a lot of people coming out to watch.   
They are there four hours before the women's singles final, so they are there because they want to come and watch us play.  Yeah, makes us want to put on a good show.   
 Q.  Do you like this new format, or would you rather it was a traditional format?  
MARTINA HINGIS: I always enjoyed the super-tiebreaker.  I mean, winning or losing, I think it's for the spectators, it's fun, because it brings more drama to it.  I'm not always for the deciding points, because I think that brings the weaker teams closer to the good teams, especially in women's with the serve and the return, I mean, it's almost like the women return better than they serve most of the time.   
So I think it evens it out, because you can't afford to make those mistakes, like even like in today in the mixed is the same, because there is more pressure to the server.  I mean, obviously the returner can decide that the better team, like, decided -- you feel less comfortable.   
Yeah, so that's why I think even like the Grand Slams that you played out, the better teams really end up winning.   
I mean, I'm not going to complain because we won all the super-tiebreakers.  We won here today.  We won Wimbledon.  I think overall, I think you have to just be there, and this is how it's played now, for the TV.  It's all a show.  You've got to earn your victories.   
 Q.  We might have got hold of the wrong end of the stick, but some suggestion that you're not kind of committed to going forward together?  
MARTINA HINGIS: I mean, we will if -- like, if I play, then definitely we will.  That's what we said.   
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, yeah.   
MARTINA HINGIS: It's a long way to go till next year.   
 Q.  Jamie, do you think your success in mixed doubles might persuade Wimbledon -- there is a massive differential of the prize money between singles and doubles and then mixed doubles.  I think it sort of came to light that Wimbledon hadn't put up the mixed doubles prize money for 10 or 11 years.  
MARTINA HINGIS: That's what you said.  10 years.   
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah.   
 Q.  Particularly, someone who is a home player for Wimbledon, do you think it might persuade them to perhaps sort of up the financial incentives a bit?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Well, I don't think they're going to up the money just in the hope that I am the one to earn it (smiling).  I don't think that's the case.   
Look, I mean, obviously a lot of money has been pumped into the Grand Slams over the last few years, and people are making a lot more money than they used to, but, you know, a majority of that is going into the singles game.   
You know, people talk about wanting to make -- you know, have more players in tennis, making more money, not just the very top guys.   
I think, you know, doubles is a huge part of tennis.  It's a huge part of our sport.  I think that that should be supported, as well as on the singles front with some of these prize money increases.   
 Q.  Going back to the question about playing together again, I think a lot of fans see 10-0, two Grand Slams, and sign us up for the next one.  Is that just the nature of this?  You don't commit to anything?  How does this all work?  
MARTINA HINGIS: No, I mean, we waited a little bit after Wimbledon before we actually had a talk.  We are just going to do the same thing.   
No, this time around it will definitely be -- no, we said yes, if we go to Australia, everyone is healthy and playing, so that's -- that's not an issue this time, I believe.   
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah.   
 Q.  You obviously played doubles with a few people over the years.  How much fun is this collaboration?  
JAMIE MURRAY: It's been a lot of fun for me.  Like, a great opportunity for me to compete with Martina, like, she's such a great player, you know, a huge champion of the game.  It's been a lot of fun.   
Like, every time we are on court, we get a lot of people coming out to watch us, a lot of people supporting us.  It makes it fun to play.  Like I said before, that's what we enjoy most about playing tennis, playing in front of a lot of people.  You know, that's where the enjoyment is, trying to put on a good show and play good tennis.   
 Q.  Would you like to see more mixed doubles in tennis?  Four Grand Slams, but would you like to see it incorporated somehow in some other form of event?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Maybe.  I think it's a lot of fun.  I mean, some of the rallies that you see, like, you wouldn't see that in the men's doubles or on the singles court.  And the fans do get into it, because it is different.   
Obviously it's only at the Grand Slams.  Would it be successful if it was at other events?  Yeah, it probably would get people interested, because, you know, it's fun.  It's something different.  Like, it's exciting, yeah.   
MARTINA HINGIS: Definitely at the longer tournaments I think, somewhere like, Indian Wells, Miami, where it's a 10-day event, that you just -- the first two, three days obviously we play always one match less than the singles players, the ones who play only doubles.  I always thought that would be fun if we had more mixed doubles.   
Especially, like I said, 10, 12-day events, yeah, that would just -- sometimes you have, like, even here, like, two days off or three days off almost if there is weather, there is rain or an issue.  That would definitely break it up a little bit more.   
 Q.  Have you had any message from Andy?  He was definitely watching, put an message on Instagram?  
JAMIE MURRAY: He texted me and said Well done.   
 Q.  You were a bit disillusioned with the game a few years ago and even contemplated walking away from it.  Can you tell us about the journey you have had and the extraordinary success of five Slam titles now, what that's been like for you?  
JAMIE MURRAY: Yeah, I think, like -- yeah, 2013, like, yeah, that was a big year for me, that big turnaround in my career.  I started playing with John Peers, and we struck a very good partnership, at least had like some direction stuff, went back to working with Louis again.  Kind of committed to my game style, accepted that that could be successful, kind of in a game where, you know, everyone was just kind of like bashing balls around.   
You know, I kind of felt like I had to do that, and that wasn't really what I was good at on the court, and just tried to kind of use my skills to the best of my ability and trust that that would be enough to be successful.  Yeah, I think all those combinations helped me a lot and started to have a lot more success on the court.   
Obviously the last kind of 18 months, Bruno has been really good, as well.  I have been enjoying my time on the court and it's exciting to come to these events and feel like you always have a chance to win them.   
MARTINA HINGIS: Hey, it's not all bashing on the court, right?  Come on, bugger.  We'll figure it out, a strategy.   
 Q.  You played with Chan's sister.  Obviously you know them well because you played with Latisha.  How would you describe Angel's performance today overall?  
MARTINA HINGIS: No.  I think we played each other in this tournament already in the doubles, so I think we both know each other's game very well, I think, but also we expect from one another, we know what to do, but also on the other hand, you know what's coming at you.   
So I think it's either way, you know, you have to take advantage of the strengths and weaknesses of each player.  I think also Jamie used to play with Angel a few mixed doubles.   
You know, every time I know, you know, whether playing with her or against her, like, Angel is a great opponent, and she's a great big fighter.  I know I have to always be ready and 100% to play them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT