AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2007
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Your match looked routine.  Was it as routine as it looked?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I think there were a few important points and games in the beginning, as it usually is in today's women's tennis.   
 I think it was good that I went ahead quickly and then I just didn't have as much pressure on my shoulders.  Well, yeah, I mean, it's another match under the roof, and I knew that 11:00 o'clock we were going to get on.  I've never seen her before, so it took me a little time to adjust what she was playing like, most of the time crosscourt, so anticipation, I got it after a few games.   
  
  Q.  Must be delighted with the way the tournament is panning out at the moment?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, for sure.  There's always things you want to get better.  My first serve percentage today probably wasn't the greatest.  And the other thing I'm improving, trying to just stay in the court.  I watched a couple games, a couple few points now, and I'm like, "What am I doing?"   
 No, sometimes you have those -- it was already a set of 4-Love with a start showing when I came off the court, so I knew that was a loose game at 4-Love because it was quite intense to go up 4-Love, that game, with a huge advantage.  So the next game to keep the focus of the hard hitters like her, it's not always the easiest.   
  
  Q.  Serena Williams said the other day, she was up 4-Love and what upset her was the fact that she lost focus a few games.  Is that something similar to you?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Thank God I only slipped by one (laughing).  That's when you have to regain focus, especially when I was in serve, that was the weak game, instead of putting extra pressure on her to force her to do something.  I could serve and volley or something.  But sometimes I think the brain just has to -- yeah, relax.  It did, and it shouldn't, but it sometimes happens.  You have those up and downs, but thankfully not too many.   
  
  Q.  A year ago you were sort of the novelty act of the tournament.  Everybody wondered, well, can she really do it, and can she win a match here and there and that sort of thing.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Certainly different this time.   
  
  Q.  Yes, of course it is.  Is there or is there not the pressure on you now that there was a year ago?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yes and no.  It's both ways now.  Everybody expects me to get to the quallers, whereas last year every match was a big win, big victory.  I definitely expect that from myself, as well.  That's why it's a different kind of pressure.  But I know if I'm at the best I can do that and I can play well.   
 It's not an easy draw.  The next round might be Mirza, which I won and lost the last match, and Safina I've played recently, accordingly if it goes like that.  But I really try to look just next round.  That's why when people asked me at the press conference the first day, I didn't really know what was in the second round, how to pronounce her name.  Now I know.   
  
  Q.  Did you surprise yourself with what you've done over the year?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, it was a great year, a great season.  I'm definitely happy.  It could have been better, it could have been worse.  I'm looking forward to what this year is going to bring to me.   
  
  Q.  I would think coming into this year your expectations must change, though, after last year?  You set new goals?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I do, but they're no different pretty much from last year.  I mean, just try to get better, try to improve.  The young girls are pushing, and the ones up top, they want to stay there.  So it's pretty much the same situation, only that I'm more confident, I've played matches, I've played tournaments, and now I know where I stand compared to last year.  I didn't know how good am I.   
  
  Q.  Are you playing at 100 percent of your level or do you think you have maybe another 10, 20 percent left?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I think I can get better.  I mean, I wouldn't be out here if I didn't think so.   
  
  Q.  Can you feel it coming week to week?  Do you say to yourself, you know --   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Even from the first match to today's match I think some things I play better, some maybe not as aggressive, but it was a different opponent from the first day.  I think against Natalie, although she's higher ranked, mentally it was a different attitude, and today -- I mean, the young girls, they just really attack.  That's what you have to face today, and anybody can come out on a given day, and you have to just work against that and try to definitely stay at the baseline.   
 I saw those couple points, and I thought, okay, that's my only chance to survive.  I try to take risks more and just go for it, which is not my mentality.  But, I mean, you have to force yourself in today's game.   
  
  Q.  Do you find it a completely different world from the one you left?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  No, I mean, Serena, Venus, Monica, Jennifer, Lindsay, they all have been doing that already.  It's always been moving forward, but now you expect that from first round on.  Before it was probably quarterfinals, and now it's first round already.   
  
  Q.  Now that you've seen your draw, you're in Kim's quarter again, which is --   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  (Laughing) yep.   
  
  Q.  -- pretty difficult, huh?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Still a long way to go to get there.  People are like, you guys are racing, who's going to finish first (laughing).  I mean, even before the match we saw each other and we talked and we were just smiling because both times we played at the same time, and we have a great relationship.   
  
  Q.  Did getting engaged give you a special peace of mind?  Does it make you a little more easy-going?  Does it make it easier --   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, probably, it definitely is.  I know my private life is balanced and I'm happy the way things are going.  We both can focus on our games and not having to worry about anything else.  We support each other.   
 You live a life at the courts, as well, which sometimes was missing, and now we both know that, okay, we go do our jobs and then next year we can enjoy ourselves.   
  
  Q.  Have you spoken to Kim about what she might miss on the Tour when she retires?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, I don't talk to her about retirement, that's for sure not.  I think she knows the best herself what she might and what she not.  She's been talking about it for a while.  No, I'd just like to see her compete, and if we get to play each other it will be great.  I only know her as a player and competitor and great person.   
  
  Q.  Can you just quickly break down Mirza's game, Sania?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  She's got a huge forehand but she's improved her backhand, as well.  You just can't give her too much time.  You've got to get her sooner than she does you.  That's going to be pretty much the strategy I have to face.   
 But I played her in Calcutta, which was quite easy, I think.  It was difficult circumstances for her, for both of us in a way.  I knew the crowds were going to be crazy, and then the next week we played in Seoul, to go from indoors to outdoors.  She was really relaxed.  She was played Asian games already, so she basically never stopped, so she has that routine going.  I'm looking forward to it.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT