MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 8, 2007
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You get some pretty tough draws here, don't you? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I think pretty much everybody is here, so yeah, it's an amazing draw.  You know, with her winning last week, she got some confidence, so did I.  I had a good week at Gold Coast, but after the three-setter against Safina, coming out here, seeing the draw, I thought, yeah, it'll be a great match; no matter what happens, it will be good to have this one down.  And unfortunately I lost, but it could have been straight set. 
 I still came back and won the second, and for endurance-wise, it definitely was good to play three going into Melbourne.  I have a few days off now, just as last year, so probably there I'll be fresh instead of playing another match against Stosur and then Mauresmo, when you look at that draw, potentially I'm saying.  But yeah, I should be fresh and ready to go there.  Always take the positive off a loss, you know (laughing). 

 Q.  After you won the second set that it was very hard, it looked like you found a way to beat her, but what happened in the third? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I had a lot of chances which I didn't make.  Sometimes -- I guess early season for confidence, you have to make the break points.  Being up 40-Love and 40-15, break points, game points, I didn't make it.  So there today you just have to go for it. 
 You know, sometimes you just can't think of putting the ball in, but you have to take the risk, and this is not my type of game to do that; I've always been the more building up points.  But today, even if you miss sometimes, you have to go for it, which I have to change the mentality. 

 Q.  Did the longer break affect your concentration at all? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  No, I won the first game, so it gave me some time to break.  I had the momentum and I kept it with the first hold.  But yes, she recovered faster.  What is she, 20?  She's six years younger than me (laughter).  No, she's a great player.  She had some great wins, great second half of the year last year, making semis at the US Open.  Yeah, we'll probably see her soon in the top ten, yeah.  There's not much space in the top ten (laughter). 

 Q.  After such a good 2006, you didn't announce any targets for that year.  Are you going to do any for this year? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I don't do any this year, either.  I'm just happy to be at No. 7, and I intend to keep that ranking.  That's all, you know.  I have some points to defend now, which is not going to be so easy.  Yeah, this is a different kind of pressure which I didn't have last year, but if I play well and be confident, I'm going to be able to win matches like today, then hopefully things will come together. 

 Q.  There was some media reports today about your so-called nickname, the "Black Widow of Tennis."  I was just wondering, how do you feel about that? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I'm sorry, I don't know what you're saying. 

 Q.  There was media reports today that say your nickname is the "Black Widow of Tennis." 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I guess I have no comment on that (laughing). 

 Q.  Had you read that story? 
 MARTINA HINGIS:  No. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT