INTERNAZIONALI D'ITALIA
May 19, 2006
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised to win so easy?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  In the beginning stages it wasn't so easy, but I think she had a lot of tough matches in the previous round so maybe she was a little tired.  But playing a night match in front of the Romanian crowd, it was -- I don't want to give too many chances.   
 No, but I played her last week.   
  Q.  So maybe the court?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Is faster, so it's maybe better for me, too, yeah.   
  Q.  Tomorrow will be the real final for you?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  No, I don't think so.  It's Kuznetsova, Safina.  I think they're two great players.  Safina had a great win over Clijsters.  And today I didn't see it, but she must have played well, 6-1, 6-1, you know.  The score is pretty solid.  Kuznetsova, running away from death, from matchpoint.  So they're both very good and strong opponents.  So one or the other if they're going to be in the finals.   
 But definitely Venus, we had so many great matches over the years.  It will be good.  Hopefully, another one.   
  Q.  Maybe you know better Venus than the other two?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, yes.  Not only maybe.  For sure (smiling).   
  Q.  So not easier, but you know better how to play her.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, it's different.  I think the last time we played was five years ago, and then we played Warsaw two weeks ago.  It was a close match which I felt like I could have won, should have won.  Now, hopefully, I get my other chance, yeah.   
  Q.  What kind of information did you get from the last match you played against Venus?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  What information?  I don't think we both played very well.  I think it was just a match of getting used to the clay, and I think we both have improved since Warsaw.  Two weeks have gone.  I don't know what she was doing in the week between, but I played Berlin so I got some matches in.  And also here.   
 I think we both play a lot better.  So it should be a higher level of tennis this time.   
  Q.  You saw her playing a little bit here in Rome or not?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, yeah, I watched.  I mean, I was waiting for the match to finish, so I watched that.   
 Yeah, the night matches, you always kind of watch.  Last night against Patty, and the first night.  You're in the room already waiting, so there's not much you can do.  You put the TV on, it's a night match.  So you like to see the other ones running, you know (smiling).   
  Q.  When you see her in front of you, does it remind you of all the big fights you had four, five years ago?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, it's like reliving a little bit of the memories, you know, which we had.  I think we were totally -- I mean, not totally different, but it's definitely years have gone on.  And they've been doing well, and I had a lot of different interests and things.  I went a different way.   
 So it's just sometimes when you see each other in the locker rooms, you're like reunited, a reunion.   
  Q.  Both of you laugh about it now or what?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  No, I mean, she finished, and I just went on.  So I had to get ready.   
 JOHN DOLAN:  Just like old times.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, it's funny.   
  Q.  What do you think about Oprandi, the Swiss and Italian player?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I think she had a great tournament, had made some good experiences, and she can take a lot from it and, hopefully, you know, now it's kind of an opening for her.  It will be great to see her doing more like that.   
 But definitely she has to -- not only one tournament in the year where she gets a chance, but now it's only the start.  I told her that.  I'm like, "Okay, now you got to keep going and take the spirit with you."   
 She's like, "Oh, I have to play qualifying in Paris."  It's like (laughing)...   
 So just like keep positive, you know.  So, yeah.   
  Q.  Have you done something nice in Rome since now?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I had like one hour, one and a half hour we spent in Piazza di Spagna.  We walk around.  That was the only time because the rest, it's just hotel.   
  Q.  On foot or by car?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  From the hotel we took the taxi and then we walked around, yeah.  There's so many people everywhere, it's incredible.   
  Q.  Did anybody recognize you?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I think it's all foreigners.  It's not many Italians there.  So they don't expect -- I mean, I'm dressed --   
  Q.  You are famous all over the world.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, but I'm dressed in normal clothes.  So people, they just -- I think everyone's just watching the clothes and the jewelry and not for the people.   
 JOHN DOLAN:  They're more interested in the Steps than you.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah (laughing).  There's more interesting things there.  I felt good, it was nice.   
  Q.  You were lucky because you could --   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I can just like mix.   
 But that's really the only time, because other times people recognize me, especially when there is the tennis going on.   
  Q.  You came back for not that long.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, and also the tennis is in the city.  But Roma is crazy.   
  Q.  Maybe.  This is Italy.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, it's Italy.  It's free living, you know, free spirit.   
  Q.  There is something I forgot to ask you about Roland Garros.  I have been asking this to all the other players.  This year they will start the tournament on Sunday.  Do you think it's a good idea, and would you agree to play on Sunday if they ask you?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I probably wouldn't be happy, but I would have to.  I mean, it's not like I'm No. 1 seed and I have to say, "Oh, I want to play whatever day."   
 But I don't know.  It's strange.  It's like two weeks already and an extra day.  But I never even played the exhibition.  They usually have like the exhibition.   
 I don't know.  I only got to know it probably two weeks ago because I wasn't at the meeting in the beginning of the year because I wasn't a full member back then (laughing). (Inaudible) to tournaments, so I wasn't even a WTA Tour member.  So I could practice on center court instead, so that was good.   
 Yeah, no, I mean, I don't know.  Whatever happens, hopefully I don't have to play.  But if it happens, then I would have to.  I don't think it's at this point my decision.  But I don't think the players are very much welcoming it.  I don't know how many matches they play.  Six?   
 JOHN DOLAN:  Six on three courts.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Men's, women's?   
 JOHN DOLAN:  Six men's, six women's.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I wonder how they decide who's going to play.  That's my biggest question right now, is like who's gonna play, you know, six matches.  How do you gonna pick it?   
 JOHN DOLAN:  They're going to play the same half.  Then whichever half plays, it's going to be one half.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, but there is still two tournaments, Istanbul and Strasbourg.  If people are still playing there and you have to make them play on Sunday, I don't think it's fair.   
 But oh, well, we'll see.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT