INTERNAZIONALI D'ITALIA
May 16, 2006
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  Now you will have Schiavone.  What is the thing that is more danger for you, the people or Francesca?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I think both (smiling).  Because if you give her a little chance, you know, the last match we played was in Doha.  I didn't give her any rhythm, any chance to get into the match.  So I played very well, it was a very good strategy, and I won easily.  But it's going to be a different time around now.  I have to play as good as I can again, yep.   
 I'm sure it's a different story because now she's almost home and she's looking for the support from the crowd and everything.  So it won't be easy.   
  Q.  If you will win with Francesca, do you think you will be ready in a tournament --   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, that's too far.   
  Q.  Playing against players like, for example, Clijsters?  Do you think to be ready now?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I'm not there yet, so we talk again at the end of the tournament (smiling).   
  Q.  In your second career you have always something to remember about your first career.  What do you remember about Rome?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Rome, well, a lot of great memories here.  My second finals I played here against Martina.  Every time I played her, I got killed the first couple times, but then I was able to turn it around.   
 I played Steffi here.  I beat Steffi.  That was a great match, you know, my first victory over her, No. 1 player.   
 Yeah, so...   
  Q.  Venus.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  And then just the tradition which Rome has, just the history is amazing, you know.  I was at the Coliseum, the Piazza di Spagna, Villa Borghese.  All these historical things, the flair is unbelievable here.  So it's beautiful.   
  Q.  Do you believe inside yourself that clay is your best surface?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  You just have to face it, you know.  Every surface is a good surface.  You have to think positive.  I think definitely, you know, I play well in Australia, which that's probably one surface I really like the most.  I think it's very fair.   
 This one, you know, I can play with a lot of different things, you know.  It's kind of slow, you can come in, you can play from the baseline.  Everything.  You have to be clever, smart.   
  Q.  May I ask you if after this victory you will call your boyfriend and hear that it's Stepanek?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  (Laughing.)  Are you writing for Gazzetta dello Sport over here?   
  Q.  I hear it from internet.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, the Italian was the first one who asked that (laughing).   
 Why?  Why do you want to know?   
  Q.  Because I am curious.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I don't ask you about your private life, do I?  I don't think it's appropriate.   
  Q.  Perhaps the fan want to know.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Sorry?   
  Q.  Perhaps the fans want to know this.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  The fans?  I think it's only natural to call, you know, whatever.   
  Q.  You are No. 6 at the race today.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, wow.  I was 4 already.   
  Q.  Is it a big satisfaction for you?  Do you think you can do better?  What is your secret goal in the end of the season?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, it's nice, you know, but the year is not over.  I mean, we have three more Grand Slams coming up and some more big tournaments.  So it's not even close to be over.   
 Of course I am satisfied with that kind of ranking, but it really doesn't say much right now.  We'll have the end of the year at the end, but I would be happy.   
 You know, you always want more.  I think I was always very close to beat the top players and, you know, hopefully I can make another step.   
  Q.  If you could compare your comeback with other sports or sportsmen, you have something, someone to compare?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I don't understand the question.   
  Q.  Like Michael Jordan.   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I think he's in another class right now, but...   
  Q.  Can you compare with someone?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  I mean, I'm me.  I'm myself.  I don't think there is anybody you can really compare anything.  Tennis is a different sport.  It's individual.  It's not a team sport.  I've been away three years.  I don't know anybody who's been away for so long and came back.   
  Q.  Is more exciting for yourself, like a clever, smart person, the challenge you have with yourself, inside yourself, or with your opponent just to show to young people like Vaidisova and the others that you can play another sort of game, you can do different things?   
 MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I'm trying to survive, you know.  That's one thing.  Because I'm 25, you know.  Like I said, I didn't want to ask myself, Why didn't I play when I was 30?  You know, 25, I think still I have time.  I am happy that I was given another chance, and now I can -- I have to build on what my weapons.  I mean, doesn't matter who's on the other side.  If I can play my game and dictate, then it doesn't matter who's on the other side.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT