AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2006
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Martina.  
 
 
Q.  What was it like wandering into your old home? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Great.  It was beautiful to walk in there.  I mean, already the previous days I got to practice there.  Really a lot of players say it's kind of slow surface, this and that.  But any time I come back into these grounds, it just feels amazing.  Although it was still empty when I was practicing, you could feel the atmosphere already of a Grand Slam.  So many memories coming also back here, thinking about, you know, all the previous years. 
 
Q.  How excited does that win tonight make you for the rest of the tournament now? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, looking at the draw and seeing all these girls, I kind of prefer playing someone like tonight who I know -- who I'm facing on the other side into the next round.  I don't know that girl very well.  I know a little bit about her.  
 
Q.  But the form you're carrying must give you confidence. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, definitely.  Beating someone who has been top 10 in the last year, couple years ago, she must have played different tennis.  But I knew that I just got to stick to my game plan, and if I can come through like that, just hopefully it will help getting through the next rounds, yeah.  
 
Q.  Did you expect it to come together so easy for you?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I wouldn't necessarily not say that it was easy, I just played really well.  I don't know, I just didn't make many unforced errors, stick to my strategy, pretty much did what I was supposed to do out there.  
 
Q.  The form you showed tonight, is that like your target?  You seemed like you were fast, hitting the ball well.  Is that what you've been working for your time off, waiting to get to that point?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, this so far was the best match I've played since I came back.  Also maybe in the weather, in the condition, playing a night match wasn't as hot as playing Gold Coast.  But it was a great preparation to get some matches under my belt and just to be able to play tennis like that.  And I knew I had to come out like this.  Because I just so badly didn't want to lose first round here (laughter).  
 
Q.  How much was that playing on your mind?  We saw Jelena Dokic.  A lot of Australians were watching her come back here.  How much was that playing on your mind, thinking, "I don't want to be derailed at this stage"? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  It's not only her, but watching all the other girls struggling sometimes.  Or even some losses.  But you just always hope that it's not going to happen to you.  You just try even harder.  Last night Serena got through a really tough one.  You know, you just got to focus on yourself at the end of the day, just got to practice.  Since Sydney, I had a few days off to just really practice and focus what I have to do.  Also against my opponent tonight.  I don't know, it just was pretty much hundred percent.  
 
Q.  Does that fear of failure become more pronounced when you get older?  You talked about being a young teenager, having no fear when you came and won here.  Does that fear become more pronounced when you get older?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, it just happens, I don't know why or how.  I guess just maturing, thinking about it more, what could happen before and after win or lose.  But definitely feels a lot better walking off the court as a winner, especially here.  I just think I just really carry myself that way from the past years, just knew what I had to do, how to play well.  I was thinking, what did I used to do on this surface.  I mean, I practice on this every day in and out at home.  Though it's indoors, might be different.  Still, you know, I love the surface.  I love coming here, yeah.  
 
Q.  You were always telling us that Rod Laver Arena is the court where you really feel at home. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yes, I do.  
 
Q.  How did it feel after three years to come back on this very court?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  It seemed like it was long time ago, like a lot of things have happened to me since.  I've been living a different lifestyle, but never really walked away totally from tennis.  Two years ago, I did the commentary.  Even as a commentator, it felt like, you know, this is the place where I used to be, you know, successful, all these memories.  Even like tonight, it didn't seem like it was that long ago.  Because I knew I was well-prepared for the situation, for the occasion.  If I wasn't, maybe it's a different story.  But I knew, you know, tonight I felt close to being a hundred percent like physically, mentally, everything. 
 
Q.  Do you still feel that you know every angle of the court, that you still feel very well?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, let's say more than other surfaces, more than other places, yes.  Otherwise you don't make six consecutive finals in a place like here.  
 
Q.  Have you thought about possibly being able to win this tournament?  Is that just too far out of the question to think about at this stage?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I'm just really happy that I won tonight.  I don't know.  Just hopefully, you know, day by day I can even improve and get better, carry myself really with the occasion, step it up in the next matches.  But I know I'm facing a tough draw.  
 
Q.  Did it feel like it was your night when you came out there, trying to capture that moment when you walked on the court? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah.  I mean, I really felt well going on court today.  Being a night match, it's a little cooler, you don't have to really face the humidity and the heat.  It definitely helps when you know that you can last probably longer.  Because that was always my biggest fear, can I really last physically.  
 
Q.  Did you feel, as I felt watching you tonight, you're bringing back a different element to the women's game, you're showing us things we don't see any more:  volleys, dropshots?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Thank you.  That's the only way I can survive in this game today, so...  What was different?  
 
Q.  You were volleying.  We don't see women volley any more.  They don't know what it is.  You were dropshotting.  You were taking the ball very early.  It was very nice to see this again. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Thanks.  
 
Q.  Did your mom offer any specific words of advice in the lead-up?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah, I talked to her.  Didn't talk to her last night.  I just really wanted to just -- I mean, last minute you can't really help that much either.  You've done the work you're supposed to or you don't.  It's going to show in the match.  I think I showed today that what we've been working on over the six weeks when I was home, it really paid off.  I was pretty much able to convert it today, in today's match.  I called her just before.  She's like, you know, she was really proud of me that I played really well, strategically.  But she always has some comments.  "You could have done this, you could have done that."  I'm like, "Please, I'm just happy to be through this."  
 
Q.  What does she think you should have done?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I won't tell.  I'll try to do it in the next match (laughter).  She was really happy for me.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT