AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2006
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Martina, please.  
 
 
Q.  What is it like to walk back into a Grand Slam venue again?  How excited are you?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  How about in a media room first (smiling)?  It's just, you know, really nice to be back and playing.  You know, I played a couple of events now.  The atmosphere really catches you right away.  It's just the competitive spirit, you know.  Playing on center court, really is a beautiful arena.  I had great memories here.  I'll just try to catch on good old times.  
 
Q.  A few years ago here success for you would be getting to the finals weekend.  This year what constitutes success? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I just really enjoy every moment.  I mean, definitely it's different coming here in my situation this time around.  But just really trying to get ready for my first-round match.  I know it's not going to be easy, but really nothing impossible.  Just really try to play my good tennis, the best tennis I can, and prepare myself.  
 
Q.  Can you judge where your game is at now if you sort of had to give yourself a ranking?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Not really.  I don't have one yet, so I can't really give myself one.  But it just really takes time.  I just got to be patient.  I don't really want to make any judgments at the moment because just get in the routine and just really feeling the pace of the game takes a little longer than just a couple of events.  
 
Q.  Is it 50/50, or is it playing well or staying healthy that's more important to you? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, it's a combination, both.  If you can stay healthy, I think I can provide still some good tennis.  
 
Q.  You've been here before with great success.  Is there a small feeling of butterflies in the stomach, having to take a couple deep breaths when you walk through the hall again?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, still not right now.  But it feels different definitely coming here playing in '95 when I was 15, fearless, you know, rookie.  Like 10 years later, definitely you have some butterflies in your stomach.  Definitely by the time I walk outside in the arena, maybe hopefully some spectators watching.  It's definitely different coming into matches right now.  I mean, I felt it at Gold Coast already.  You have to try to throw your nerves behind yourself and just focus on strategy.  
 
Q.  Is it a good nervous energy, though?  Is it an excited nervous energy? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I don't know.  It probably takes more than a couple deep breaths (smiling).  
 
Q.  How do you rate your game at the moment compared to when you were playing at your best? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I think the game really has gotten more from beginning to end, it's just more relentless.  You can't ever give up any points.  You just have to really play one by one.  Just in my case, I know, and I've always been saying that, I never could do that, overpower other players, but still I hope I can find other winning strategies.  That's what I'm looking forward to find out, if I can still do so.  Just at the moment I prepared myself the best I could.  I had a short time only, so just see what happens.  
 
Q.  How close at the moment do you think your game is to the way you were playing years ago when you were world No. 1?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  It's different.  You have to be better definitely than when I didn't play any more.  I mean, three years back, I would probably right now win matches easier than what I do now definitely.  I mean, I felt it at the last couple of events.  I mean, you just have to go on with time.  
 
Q.  Is it possible to explain why you made the decision to come back?  Did something happen?  What was the mindset that made you think, I really want to give this another go, I've had enough of not playing, now I really want to play? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Just the easy lifestyle (smiling).  It's just really the competitive spirit in me, I've lived a life like that for 10 years.  The last three years, I tried to find out different things, you know, if other things would make me happy.  The main reason was also my health.  I mean, with my feet, I knew I couldn't be at the peak of the game I wanted to be.  Really, it's no fun going out there knowing beforehand that you can't be hundred percent, provide the best tennis you can.  Now I think I've got my problems a little bit under control.  I can't really tell you right now how far I'm at and how my body will last.  I can only find out with playing tournaments.  
 
Q.  Do you have to manage your training carefully because of your feet?  How serious a problem is it still? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, definitely the surface comes well for me because it's a soft underground.  It's sticky still, but it's different muscles you have to use.  It's just soft for my heels, yeah.  That's a good thing.  We have that at home, and I practice on that as well.  Indoors is different than outdoors, coming here to Australia.  I think you can't ever do the same in practice what you do in matches, so that will just show with time.  
 
Q.  Are you confident that the feet will stand up through this comeback, through the year?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I hope so.  I mean, you can't really tell more now.  I mean, definitely that's what you wish for.  
 
Q.  Having had time to reflect on the match with Justine, was there a part of you at all that thought that this is going to be a bit harder than you thought, or as expected?  Did it take you by surprise?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  She ended up winning the tournament, so I had to face the best player in the draw.  That's not the easiest task to do, especially coming after a long layover of three years.  I played in Gold Coast, and it took me longer than I wished for to recover.  I still felt like I couldn't give what I wish I could have given, maybe a bit better fight.  It was still really close in the games.  You know, I know how the top 10 players play now, where maybe she's one of the best.  Always when she comes back, she seems to be winning.  I don't know.  It showed me a little bit where I'm at.  I just really have to give myself some more time.  
 
Q.  Are you aware of the amount of goodwill that seems to have greeted your return?  Everyone seems to be welcoming the fact that you've come back.  I haven't seen anyone who said, "No, we wish she wasn't." 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, that's nice.  I'm very happy.  I think part of it's that also my comeback for the fans I have and the support, definitely also from the family, just really the support system has been very great to me.  I really am thankful for that.  I really enjoy every moment.  
 
Q.  A word about Vera.  What have you seen of her game in the last couple years?  Your thoughts on the match?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I never played her in the time where I was still around.  She was just coming up.  I heard a lot about her.  I mean, I watched her, especially also during my commentary year.  Yeah, she's had -- couple years ago she had a great season, making the top 10.  Last year was probably more of a bumpy ride.  It's like she's one of the Russian gang.  Definitely you have strength and weaknesses you know about the player.  I hope I can take advantage of that.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT