US OPEN
August 29, 2002
Martina Hingis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Martina.  
 
 
Q.  Did you play better than the first round match?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I think so, yeah. 
 
Q.  How did you feel?  Talk about the match. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, at first I didn't know the girl.  But I played her bigger sister in the quarterfinals of the Australian Open so I knew, you know, pretty much what I was going into.  I watched her play a little bit also like a few times in practice.  I knew she had a good backhand and a little weaker forehand.  Yeah, that kind of worked, just playing her forehand, just attack the serve.  
 
Q.  So physically you were talking about the other day you don't feel quite there.  Do you feel every day a little bit stronger or not? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yes, I do.  I mean, I think that match kind of helped me.  I knew I could survive a three-setter, one like that.  Today I definitely knew that I can, you know, play my game and go out there and not be afraid of rallies.  That was a positive thing today, that I won the long rallies, just kind of hang in there in the first set, then I could be more aggressive. 
 
Q.  Are you feeling the ball like you were, say, in January?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I think I'm playing game-wise -- technically , I think I improve on my forehand.  Especially today, I was rallying, some good forehands, attacking there, played well like the forehand rallies.  Other than that, I don't know.  Some things better, some worse.  But that's like all relying to the injury or whatever you have. 
 
Q.  Being away from the game for a while like you were, did you find it sort of rekindled your love of the game, the feelings you have toward the sport?  Some people would be away from the game and say they liked the normal life. 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I mean, you like it until a certain stage, a certain time.  But then you feel almost  -- I wasn't fulfilled with the way of living at that point.  You know, a couple months, just kind of traveling and doing other things which you're not used to do because you never had the time.  You've always got to practice and travel and play tournaments.  Just like no regime, no routine.  After a while you miss it.  You miss having the practice hours, the times, just the discipline.  That's been all my life like that.  You know, I start missing it.  
 
Q.  Is it too much to think you could have even a small impact on this tournament, and I don't mean winning it, but if you go up against a big player?  Are you capable of winning a set, maybe upsetting Venus, something like that?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Well, I'm not there yet, I mean, to play her.  Definitely I wouldn't have anything to lose.  I mean, I would love to get that far and play her, if we both get there.  I'm looking into the next round, I think Amanda Coetzer now.  I think I've got plenty to worry about. 
 
Q.  Did you miss winning while you were off the last few months?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I miss the challenge and the motivation.  I love playing tennis.  I did play just for fun a few times.  I loved being back on court.  I knew that first set back that I could still play, if my body would last.  Just the passion has always been there. 
 
Q.  And you probably weren't too surprised while you were off that Venus and Serena kind of dominated?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  They played great tennis out there in the Grand Slams.  Well-deserved.  The Wimbledon finals was one of the best matches ever. 
 
Q.  You saw it?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I watched it. 
 
Q.  You thought the level was high, about as high as women's tennis has ever gotten?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Sure.  I mean, there is nothing to criticize about that.  I mean, they played a great match. 
 
Q.  Did you say to yourself, "I wonder if I can play at that level now"? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  I watched a tape with my mom.  They not only have the game, but the technique, the way they move on court, so fast, hit the ball hard.  You know, we're like, "Okay, this is what you have in front of you."  That's how you want to play, try to get to that level.  
 
Q.  And that's challenging for you?
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  You're considered by a lot of people the smartest player out there.  Who's the smartest player that you've played and why? 
 
MARTINA HINGIS:  Oh, it's like all the top players, they work with their tools.  You know, whoever is at the top, you know, at that time, obviously that player is playing the best.  Right now it's Serena, could be Venus, and even Jennifer at her best, on court, she really knows how to play that game.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT