AL DIVISION SERIES: ROYALS v ANGELS
October 4, 2014
Collin Cowgill
C.J. Cron
Huston Street
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Collin, after the game last night, Sciosch said if the same play came up with the tag, he would hope you would do it again, but isn't it human nature to maybe be a little more hesitant next time in a similar situation?   
    COLLIN COWGILL:   I don't know, if the situation were to happen again tomorrow, I'm going.   I'm going 100 times out of 100.   Sciosch put me in there to run.   We've all said already our offense has been struggling a little bit, which is true.   It doesn't mean you've got to force the issue, but at the same time, if I am safe, we've got two chances with Calhoun, Mike Trout.   Anything can happen.   Like I said, I'm taking that chance 100 times out of 100.   I've been on Dyson's end, too.   I've come in to play defense quite a bit.   I know how hard that play is.   The guy made a great throw.   That's just how baseball is.   
   
 Q.   C.J., this postseason thing is actually pretty new to you, as well.   You seem to put together some pretty good swings in the first couple games.   How have you felt?   How were the nerves for you early and what has led to your good at‑bats?   
    C.J. CRON:   I feel comfortable up there.   It's really all about winning at this point.   Individual play does not matter at all.   I'm just trying to put together good at‑bats, get on base and help the team.   
   
 Q.   Huston, you guys obviously have to win three in a row but you can't think of it that way.   How do you approach going into a game like this?   
    HUSTON STREET:   You approach it the way you would in the first two.   You look at the first two games, it was two extra‑inning games.   We were right there, one swing of the bat both times.   I think you stick with your same processes you've had all season long.   That's what this game is.   It's 162‑game grind that leaves the postseason, but you only play one at a time, so you have to have a process that gets you through‑‑ gets you from 1 to 162 and that consistency, and I think for the most part no one has really changed, and like Sciosch said earlier, there's been a couple balls, a couple pitches that we could have squared up that we just didn't.   
    A lot of times I think people overreact because it is the postseason and the finality of it stares you right in the face, but how many times have you had two close games like that and you come out of them saying, man, we're playing well, we just need to score a couple more pitches.   That's how we think of it.   We've gone on three‑game winning streaks a lot this season.   Since I've come over here, they've done it, I think, eight or nine times.   If you look at the 10‑game winning streak as three separate three‑game winning streaks and a four‑game winning streak.   You just go play your game.   You win one game at a time.   They got here by winning one game at a time.   That's why they're up 2‑0.   You go play tomorrow.   That's all you can do.   
   
 Q.   Huston, it had been a while since you pinched two full innings out of the bullpen.   How did you feel coming out of it last night, and is that something you feel like you can do whenever called upon?   Huston?  
    HUSTON STREET:   I felt good coming out of it.   I had a pretty efficient inning the first time and the first inning was I think 20 pitches.   But this is the postseason.   You don't want to be sitting at home, and when they ask you to go two, you go two.   If they ask you to go three, you go three.   For those of us who have been to the postseason before, my last time was 2009.   I've been waiting however many years, five years, to get back.   You don't want to waste a moment.   When you feel like the ball is coming out of your hand well, too, it's the competitor in you, give me the ball, put that on my shoulders, give me a chance.   And I think we've got a lot of guys on the team that want the ball, and that's a good thing.   
    In those situations I'm going to take the ball whenever they need?  
   
 Q.   Along those lines, did Mike ask you to go an extra inning or did you say I want an extra inning, and will that affect you moving forward?   
    HUSTON STREET:   It's not going to affect me moving forward.   It was just something we talked about on the bench.   You pitch back‑to‑back days, throwing 20 pitches in the first inning, but we discussed it prior to going out, and it was something that they always do a good job of‑‑ they want to make sure they're still putting the player in a situation that they want to be in, and he wasn't‑‑ I don't think he was going to push the envelope if I said I'm down.   But there's no chance I was going to say that, so it was pretty easy at that moment.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT