WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2016
Jana Cepelova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. CEPELOVA/G. Muguruza
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

Q. Pretty good win out there. What is it about playing the big players on the big courts that seems to bring out the best in you?
JANA CEPELOVA: Yeah, I like to play on the big courts, and today and also last year my performance on big court was pretty good. I think I played today well.

Q. What were you thinking going up against Garbiñe, and how did you pull off this victory?
JANA CEPELOVA: It was tough because yesterday we didn't play. I waiting two days. But I had such a good performance because I passed qually, and I have four matches after me on grass. I'm used to it on this court.
I had good confidence. I tried to play my best game.

Q. To what degree are you surprised that you beat her?
JANA CEPELOVA: I am surprised, of course, but I step on the court that I would like to win.

Q. Did you feel like she was a little flat or tired? She talked about lack of energy. Could you feel that out there?
JANA CEPELOVA: I focus on myself. Yeah. 

Q. At which point in the match did you feel you had a good chance?
JANA CEPELOVA: From the beginning I feel really good on the court, because I had such good memories from the last year. I beat Halep there. And I step on the court really with the confidence. I just believe myself every point, every game. I tried to win. 

Q. Garbiñe said you play with no fear, that you were just going out to play all your shots. Did you feel like that yourself?
JANA CEPELOVA: I think I play well. She play a little bit sometimes a lot of mistakes. But, how I say, I focus on my game.

Q. How would you describe your style of play?
JANA CEPELOVA: I like play on grass. My style is I think that I change a lot, the shots. And sometimes I play flat; sometimes I play slices. I think I'm good with the changes.

Q. What do you think the difference is? Do you feel it when you play Serena in Charleston or you play Garby or Simona, these big courts against the big players? Do you feel different when you play those big players versus when you play the ITFs or you play smaller courts and maybe not as famous players?
JANA CEPELOVA: Of course. Yeah, it's a big difference but I like these courts. I like to play against biggest stars, of course, against the champions. And I try to keep winning against these champions player.

Q. What do these wins over the big players kind of teach you about yourself? You know, where your ranking is, maybe people didn't expect a result like this, but you are able to get these big wins consistently. 
JANA CEPELOVA: Yes. But last year I had not good year because of my injuries and stuff like this. But I am now to coming back. I hope I will soon be back in top 100 and of course more.

Q. What were those injuries? 
JANA CEPELOVA: I had pneumonia in Melbourne.

Q. This year?
JANA CEPELOVA: Last year. I cannot play the Grand Slam main draw. I was in hospital. Then I had problem with the back. 

Q. When were you in the hospital and how long?
JANA CEPELOVA: I was six days in hospital, but the recovery was around three or four months. 

Q. Do you feel like you're back to where you want to be? Do you still feel like there's more levels to improve? Where is your game right now?
JANA CEPELOVA: I think I play good. I think I play better like two or three years ago. But it's tough because if I'm in ranking around 120, you have small points and it's not easy to be back.

Q. What is possible now, do you think, for you? What do you want to do at Wimbledon this year?
JANA CEPELOVA: Of course I would like to keep winning. I have tomorrow match against Safarova. I didn't expect so much. She's lefty player. We have 1‑1 against her. 
I think if I will play my game I hope we will play good and I can keep winning.

Q. Do you have a coach here with you?
JANA CEPELOVA: Yeah. I have coach and physio.

Q. Same coach as for a while or a different coach?
JANA CEPELOVA: Yeah, same. 

Q. What's his name?
JANA CEPELOVA: Martin Zathurecky. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT