MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: AAA TEXAS 500
November 4, 2018
Ryan Blaney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We are joined by our second‑place finisher, Ryan Blaney, driver of the No.12 a Carlisle Ford, and our sixth‑place finisher and Playoff driver Chase Elliott, driver of the No.9 Kelley Blue Book Chevrolet. 
We'll open it up to questions. 

Q. On the last restart, once he took the top, did you feel like he was going to have the advantage?
RYAN BLANEY: Yeah, I figured he wouldn't make that move three times. We almost cleared him the first restart up top. Then I did the second one. I figured he'd take the top. 
The 42 gave me a heck of a push, but I didn't quite get far enough ahead of the 4 into one. If we would have went in there, he was kind of on my right rear, I would have been okay. But we went in side‑by‑side. If I sailed off in there as fast as he did, I would have got loose, wrecked us both. 
You kind of knew you were beat getting into one when you're there because you know the guy on the outside is going to pin you. I figured when he took the top, it was going to take a really good push and position into one to have a prayer at it. Just didn't happen. 

Q. (No microphone.)
RYAN BLANEY: Yeah, I mean, when someone beats you on there. The top actually wasn't bad in one or two on restarts. Felt like you could roll pretty decent, especially on the front row when you had no one in front of you. 
You get beat in one, you almost get beat the next one, you're going to take the top, not restart on the bottom. Honestly, it's a very vulnerable spot being on the bottom, someone can pin you. I figured he wasn't going to do that. 

Q. Chase, basically at this point you've got a situation where you pretty much have to win at Phoenix. Your last two starts there were second and third. Do you feel pretty confident going in there having that one goal in mind?
CHASE ELLIOTT: I mean, yeah, I feel better about Phoenix than I did about today, for sure. Yeah, we'll see. I mean, I don't know till we get there. Yeah, tough spot to be in. But ultimately you got to be in a must‑win situation at Homestead if you ever make it down there, so you might as well get used to it and like it. 

Q. Ryan, yesterday evening we had heavy rain. Did you feel any difference in the grip level?
RYAN BLANEY: Yeah, I thought so. I went down in one the first lap, I about did what the 20 did yesterday. I think the 14 and the 11 got into each other. It was pretty slippery, especially when you were in the first couple rows, sailing off into one. 
I thought the first little bit you could feel the track kind of a bit greasy, not a lot of rubber on it. It came in. Got pretty dark, but yeah, you could feel the heavy rains, what it did to it. 

Q. Chase, it looked like it was hard to pass out there for everybody. Was it as hard as it looked?
CHASE ELLIOTT: Yeah, I mean, absolutely. I don't know what genius decided to pave this place or take the banking out of one and two. Not a good move for the entertainment factor, in my opinion. 
THE MODERATOR: Gentlemen, thanks for joining us. Good luck next week in Phoenix. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT