NASCAR CUP SERIES: XFINITY 500
November 1, 2020
Ryan Blaney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We'll get right into questions for our second‑place finisher, Ryan Blaney.   
   
 Q. How are you?  
RYAN BLANEY: Could be better.   
   
 Q. Overall, go through your run. What was it like battling up front with your teammate for the lead?  
RYAN BLANEY: Yeah, pretty decent all day. We got progressively better. I sped on pit road before that first stage. That really set us back. Good thing we had a lot of time to get back up through the field after that.   
We got the lead there, which was good. We were riding around, biding our time. Caution came out, we lost a spot on pit road, lost the lead, lost control of the race. Started third or fourth on the restart. Got back to second.   
Trying to run the 19 down. Caution came out. Lost a couple more spots on pit road. Could never get back up there. By the time we got second, the 9 was completely gone.   
Overall not a bad night. It sucks to finish second here, though, both times this year.   
   
 Q. Was it the cautions that killed you?  
RYAN BLANEY: Cautions maybe. If we just maintain on pit road, I thought we'd have a good shot at it. We just didn't do that tonight.   
   
 Q. Your fourth consecutive top‑10 finish over this Playoff stretch. Do you think you and the No.12 team are building strong momentum towards 2021?  
RYAN BLANEY: Yeah, I mean, that's what it's all about, right? Our Playoffs ended pretty maturely there, being eliminated in the first round. Obviously bums out everybody.   
We wanted to show that we can run up front, contend for wins. Main goal when we got knocked out was to run as well as we can, try to win races, get ready for next year. That's the main thing.   
Yeah, proud of this 12 group. The past 10 full weeks we've been strong. Had a chance to win a couple races. Just need to put it all together. Yeah, definitely hoping we can have a good day at Phoenix, we can have a really good off‑season headed into next year.   
THE MODERATOR: Ryan, thanks for taking the time to join us. We'll see you next week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT