BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 6, 2009
Robby Albarado
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ERIC WING: We're happy to have Robby Albarado. Congratulations on Breeders' Cup win number two. The other win being at Monmouth in '07 with Curlin. It looked like a pretty straightforward ride for you. Stalking Rose Catherine all the way around. Just trying to then at the end see who was best. 
 ROBBY ALBARADO: Yeah, she had some speed, and Dale Romans the trainer wanted me to clear her out of the field, get some position without burying her the first turn. She did. She got away quick. In the late second, she was content with being second, she was kind. I did, and she fought to the wire. 

 Q. Robby, you were on her back the last three times before today. So I'll ask you the same question that somebody asked Dale Romans earlier. When was it that you realized that this was potentially a Breeders' Cup type two-year-old filly?
 ROBBY ALBARADO: I think when I rode on the grass at Saratoga that day. The PG Johnson Stakes. She came in on the lead that day, and she finished with a burst of speed late in the race. She finished that last quarter really quick. It was pretty impressive. 
 I rode her the next time at Belmont Park in a sticky racetrack, and she wasn't too fond of that. So coming back on the Santa Anita turf course, I thought she'd do well. She trained well early in the week. So we expected and anticipated a big race. 

 Q. The last time you were here, the last Breeders' Cup race we all know what happened with Curlin. From your point of view a year later, did the Pro-Ride get Curlin beat or not? 
 ROBBY ALBARADO: I don't know. It could have been a couple of things. It could have been the Pro-Ride. He had a long campaign all year long. Running against the best horses throughout the year. So it is the end of the year, so, you know, first horses came at him. I'm not going to blame it on the Pro-Ride, I'm not going to blame it on anything. It's unfortunate he went out in his last race not winning. 
 First thing I thought about when I came to the gates today though.

 Q. Really? 
 ROBBY ALBARADO: Yeah. 
 ERIC WING: Congratulations on the win. Good luck the rest of the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT