SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2017
Joni Taylor
Pachis Roberts
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








South Carolina - 72, Georgia -48
THE MODERATOR: I'd like to welcome Georgia.
Coach, an opening statement, please.
COACH TAYLOR: Let's give South Carolina a lot of credit.  They were better than we were today.  We knew we had a tall task in front of us.  They're the No. 1 seed for a reason.  They showed it today.
We didn't come out and do what we needed to do.  I think we missed some easy shots offensively that we normally make.  We let that affect how we played on the defensive end of the floor.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for Pachis.
Q. What did they do, especially in the first quarter, second quarter, to get you guys out of your rhythm?
PACHIS ROBERTS: They played man defense.  They kind of split us up, made us rush our shots.  That's pretty much what we do.  Being the No. 1 team in our conference, being a top team in the country, it was hard to get back from that.
THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions for coach.
Q. In the first game you played with them in Columbia, you were able to change the pace of the rhythm.  They were without A'ja in that game.  What prevented that from happening today?
COACH TAYLOR: Well, we made shots.  I think that's the difference.  I think that we have some players who can pull Alaina away from the basket, pull A'ja away from the basket.  In the first game we did that.  We made shots.  That's the difference.
Those two games prior and today, we didn't make those same shots.  We had some good looks.  They didn't go down.  Give South Carolina credit for that, as well.
The difference is us offensively.
Q. You're obviously in one of the toughest conferences in the country.  What do you think your post-season chances are now waiting?
COACH TAYLOR: Well, I mean, obviously after yesterday, you feel pretty good.  I think we should have had a better showing today.  I don't really worry about that.  We have to control what we can control.
We didn't give a good showing today like we should have.  They're on the committee for a good reason.  They make those decisions.  We try to control the things that we can control.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT