WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 31, 2019
Li Haotong
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Right now current leader, Li Haotong too honk is here, playing a round of 64, so let's talk about today's performance.   
LI HAOTONG: To sum up today's performance, I played pretty well even though I made a little bit of mistakes but overall I played pretty well.   
 Q.  Your performance today on the front nine and back nine, what do you feel was the difference?  
LI HAOTONG: I emphasised that before entering this year's WGC-HSBC Champions, I don't feel quite well with my status and my momentum because in the previous tournament, I wasn't really playing that well. But I never expected today that I had such a great round today in day one.   
Actually, from the start, in the first few holes, I already made some good putts which makes me feel more confident, and birdied 17 and 18, two in a row and know I gained momentum throughout today and to have a good finish.   
 Q.  Talk about the eagle on the second hole, very loud cheer. Just what club you hit.  
LI HAOTONG: 4 iron.   
 Q.  On the way from the clubhouse to the media center, there's quite a lot of Chinese fans cheering and supporting you. Reflecting from 2015, I had a pretty good chance of trying to win this WGC - HSBC Champions, Chinese player trying to win it all. Now after four years, you have gained more confidence and more experience. So would this year be a good time for you to win it all?  
LI HAOTONG: Today is a pretty good start and good beginning. Obviously it would be great joy for Chinese golfers and Chinese golf fans to have a Chinese player winning a WGC-HSBC Champions here in China, but for the next three days, anything could happen.   
So I don't want to think too much about it. I just want to focus and concentrate on the upcoming three days because anything can happen. I just wanted to do a good job to keep this momentum going for the next three days.   
 Q.  You weren't feeling too comfortable of your own status before entering the tournament, so can you be more specific, was it your swing or your putting?  
LI HAOTONG: Actually, I don't feel good with my new irons, and I actually had to change back to my old clubs this week to feel more comfortable in my own swing and putting.   
 Q.  What would you like better, to be in the leading group throughout the week or to be chasing from behind at the end?  
LI HAOTONG: It's always good to have a feeling that you know that you are leading, especially in the first two days. But what I only want right now is to be at the title shot, to have the title shot and the final nine holes on Sunday.   
 Q.  Could you explain the Chinese crowds who come to watch you in America? Do you get a lot of people coming? What kind of people turn up to watch you?  
LI HAOTONG: Usually my parents been traveling a lot and watch me all the time. That's the most -- most of the people been watching me.   
 Q.  But I've been over to America, not recently, but I've never seen so many Chinese restaurants and things. So they must surely come and follow you.  
LI HAOTONG: No, there's a lot -- plenty of Chinese restaurants, but they are all American Chinese. (Laughter).   
 Q.  Why did you change to new clubs, and what made you go back?  
LI HAOTONG: Actually I changed the grip with Rick. Totally changed my swing feeling. I switched back to the round grip and find the rhythm a lot.   
 Q.  Was it something visual or feel?  
LI HAOTONG: Yeah, the hand.   
 Q.  And secondly, when you play well, and especially here, do you find it to be more pressure or more motivation?  
LI HAOTONG: Actually -- actually compared to 2015, which is a lot better now, and I felt a lot (more) enjoyable to play the golf around here. I mean, every week in China.   
 Q.  How was it playing with Phil Mickelson?  
LI HAOTONG: He's great to play with always, and teach me special stuff and experience. It's always fun to play with him -- probably ten years ago, a lot handsome compared that time (laughter).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT