U.S. SENIOR OPEN
June 30, 2017
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good start, three birdies in the first six.  Probably thought something better was going to happen.  So tell us about that.
DAVID FROST: No, you know.  I always say, you know, you can't win it on the first two days, but you can lose it.  So guys that shot a really good score yesterday, they've kind of got to play almost defensive golf today.  It's just the nature of a Major Championship, I suppose.
So my goal was just to hit consistent shots, hopefully shoot a good under par round today.  I'm not out of it completely.  But just puts you in a good position to kind of check things out from the back there, from the last two rounds.
Q. Has your game been good coming in?
DAVID FROST: Yes, I kind of had a good finish to my tournament last week.  I shot 66 the last day and jumped from 41st to 13th.  So I worked on something small in my game two weeks ago when I was down in Florida.  So if only I can just keep things simple and stick to one or two swing putts and not try to get too technical out there.
Q. So at this point in your career, you still can always be searching, finding a little of this?
DAVID FROST: You know what, we play in so much weather conditions.  The last month, we played in a lot of heavy winds.  The PGA at the Trump D.C., the wind blew so hard there.  So, you know, some bad things sneak into your swing without you even realizing it.  And then you work on some simple things that you know you did a long time ago.
So there's always one or two little checkpoints that you miss, and putting is a key.  Keep making the putts, you can survive.
Q. On your birdies today, anything of length, or did you hit it pretty close?
DAVID FROST: I made a great birdie on No. 2, where I hit it about 12 feet.  So, yeah, everything was -- I never made -- I made a couple nice par saves, 10-footer on 17.  But, generally speaking, I didn't make anything over 10 feet today.
Q. Do players on this Tour, do you think, draw inspiration from what Bernhard Langer is doing at almost 60?
DAVID FROST: Yeah, sure.  Whether it's him or even guys winning on the regular Tour, I think we're always inspired watching guys play, and we always feel we can improve our game.
You get a Mercedes-Benz, a BMW, and then you get Bernhard Langer.  He's like a machine.  I mean, his routine is so good, and his reputation is so good, it's like nothing else enters his mind.  It's almost like watching Roger Federer.  When he gets beaten at a shot, he keeps going like it didn't happen.  Langer is just one good shot after another and just keeps things very simple and doesn't -- I mean, obviously, he tries to hit the driver as hard as he can when he plays and keeps it in play.  He's still up there, not with the long guys, but gets it out there.  He keeps things very simple.
His body, obviously, has aged very well, which also helps, not being injured, maintaining his body weight, so to speak.  A lot of guys, we get a little older and bigger and swing gets a little shorter.
But, yeah, he's an inspiration.  We all measure our games like, come on, let's beat Langer this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT