THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2013
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVID FROST:   Playing a golf course like this and with players like today that have played the game for so long and are well respected, especially Tom Watson, fortunate to have played a lot of golf with him in the last two or three years on the Champions Tour, and he's just a great inspiration to be around. 

Q.   There's no doubt you deserve to be here, and your form this season is pretty impressive, isn't it? 
DAVID FROST:   Yeah, I've had, since October last year, I've played some solid golf.   I can't really tell you specifically why.   Worked on my game quite hard over the last six or seven years and maybe everything's just come together at the right time.

Q.   It is what we expected when you were still playing on The European Tour; you were still challenging regularly. 
DAVID FROST:   Yeah, it's taken a good two years to sort of find your feet on the Champions Tour and to feel the confidence from week‑to‑week.   You come out here and think you're going to be the young guy, but the guys on this tour can all play.   They are all winners and the guys just don't choke. 
When they are in the lead, they can all win, so.   You know, it just takes you two or three years to sort of maybe gain your confidence and try to keep up with those guys that you're playing with. 

Q.   I'm sure there's no complacency, but does that mean that you have to reapply yourself? 
DAVID FROST:   You know, you've just got to not think too far ahead and not think on things that have happened in the past.   You know, pick your numbers and see your shot and then hopefully you just‑‑ the results have been there and you kind of ‑‑ you're in the position right now, so go with it. 

Q.   Your numbers today were nice, particularly 17.   Talk us through that one. 
DAVID FROST:   It was a bit of a risky shot.   I had 250 yards over the bunker and I didn't think I could carry it and was trying to hit the bunker right of the flag and fortunately it threaded the two bunkers.   I don't think it's a shot I would have tried to pull off on Sunday had I been in the lead or something.   Just a shot that worked out today.   You never know when things are going to work out. 
It was a tough day today.   It wasn't like the typical prevailing wind that we normally have out here, left to right and into you on 1.   We had to change the game plan a lot.   Wasn't really planning on hitting a lot of drivers, which you don't with the prevailing wind, and then today hit about six drivers out there. 
Just had to be confident with the club and focus on where you want to hit it rather than thinking, oh, I didn't normally hit driver here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT