THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2012
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DAVID FROST:   It wasn't that hard.   You just had to control your golf ball.   I mean, that's an amazing score that Hallberg shot.   But yeah, it's on the board. 

Q.   You are still there in the Top‑10 and nicely in touch with the leaders. 
DAVID FROST:   You know, two days gone, two days like this, if the weather and the conditions stay tough like this, I'm right in this tournament. 

Q.   You say it's not that hard but please give an indication of how windy this is and how tricky it is. 
DAVID FROST:   You know, it's more local knowledge.   It's more, you know, knowing the course, playing the course, feeling the bounces, things like that. 
When you play once a year, you just can't relate to it all the time; can the 6‑iron go 190 yards; can the 3‑wood go 300 yards.   Those are things you've just got to get used to, and just it's hard to believe it sometimes, but you've always got to putt the extreme in there, and you know, hopefully don't hit in these bunkers out here.

Q.   Was there a moment out there where you knew it was hard work today and you've got to knuckle down and keep it going? 
DAVID FROST:   The couple of shots that I missed was just a bit not being familiar with these conditions.   And again, then everybody is going to struggle like that. 
So the guys that can adapt to it the best and maybe relate to it, yeah, sometimes you've got 165 yards and you've got to hit a 5‑iron.   Your brain just can't get around those numbers. 
And you know, the guys that can adjust the best and just be happy with the fact that a 5‑iron can go 160 yards, they can do the best. 

Q.   You mentioned and looked up at Gary Hallberg's score.   What's your take on that today?
DAVID FROST:   Phenomenal.   Just a phenomenal round.   What else can you say?   He obviously putted well and hit the ball in the right places in the fairway.   That was an amazing round.   One of the best rounds of the year, I would say. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT