THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2012
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How was that? 
DAVID FROST:   It was very enjoyable.   You know, it was like a garden out there, a beautiful garden.   The golf course is in this condition, and it's nice and green and then the water was so calm.   It was like playing in Hawaii, really. 

Q.   The wind picked up a little for you in the afternoon. 
DAVID FROST:   A little bit but sometimes it helps to have a little wind so you can actually aim the ball in a certain direction and the wind will blow it back.   When there's no wind, you have to keep going for the middle of the fairways all the type. 
But generally, I'm happy with my round.   You know, it's good not to shoot yourself out of the tournament the first round.   Just put yourself in position to go with the flow for the first two or three rounds, and you know, again, the weather was so good today, you didn't really want to shoot even par when it was out there to break par today.

Q.   A nice position on the board behind Bernhard Langer who shot an exceptional round I guess?
DAVID FROST:   Yes, I had to face that number before I went out today thinking, is it easy out there or did he just play well.   But, there are a lot of good players up on the leaderboard, like there is every week, and you've just got to hope it's your week.

Q.   Started nicely, as well and you threw in that eagle. 
DAVID FROST:   As I say, I was quite happy in my round today and made some nice birdies.   Made a nice little eagle.   You're always going to have‑‑ on these links courses, there's always going to be one or two shots that get away just because the bump and the run of the ball out here, and you've just got to try and save your shots making a long putt or getting lucky on some holes like I did when I made the eagle. 

Q.   Anything special about that?   Because there haven't been many. 
DAVID FROST:   It's just such a difficult hole, No. 7, you hit your driver in position, you can go for the green.   And I got lucky, I pushed my second shot a little bit and caught the slope and rolled down about two feet.   As I said, you know, you need to get the bounces out here, too, when you play these links courses. 

Q.   How have you been getting on in the Senior Tour? 
DAVID FROST:   I haven't played that well this year.   And I had my instructor come out here from Germany last Thursday, Friday and gave me some silly things to work on that you think the game is really complicated, and, is that all I have to do?   So we tend to look for too much out there. 
As I say, I haven't played well this year.   I had a win under the belt with Michael Allen, we won the team event.   That   was really exciting.   Unfortunately I hurt myself a little bit at Pebble Beach three weeks ago and I had to withdraw from the U.S. Open.   I haven't played a round in three weeks now.   I pulled out of the Pro‑Am to give my SI joint another little rest and I think‑‑ unfortunately, I don't like pulling out of Pro‑Ams but I just gave myself another day's rest and played 18 yesterday for the first time in three weeks. 
So, I'm fresh.   I'm like 99.9.   I don't feel any handicap out there, which I'm really surprised at.   I worked with the guys in the physio truck.   Without them, you know, I don't think I would have been here, either.   Trevor Dodds' lady, she's a physio lady from South Africa, she's been here.   So I've had a lot of hands on me the last couple days.   

Q.   Also supporting the local economy with a nice Turnberry sweater. 
DAVID FROST:   Yeah, you've got to get with the feeling out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT