THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 23, 2011
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 66 and in contention, what aspects of your game were the key to that today?
 DAVID FROST: Putting. I made a lot of good putts, a lot of crucial putts. I hit it in two fairway bunkers, and just had to get it out and then made par from there. Both times I had a 9-iron in my hand. 
 The wind, it changed directions so much, but yeah, putting was my key and I drove the ball quite well apart from those two holes. 

 Q. Start of the day, six shots behind, what's mind-set when you go out in that situation? 
 DAVID FROST: You know, somehow minus eight crept into my head last night before I went to bed and I just saw this number in the sky all day long, and just missed it by one I guess.

 Q. You bumped your head earlier in the week; how is it now?
 DAVID FROST: It was funny, I didn't bump my head. I actually almost fainted. I got up from dinner one night and I just got light-headed. Stumbled across, sort of lost my balance, and almost my consciousness, stumbled into a wall, and there's a big Mark in the wall now. Glad it wasn't a cement wall. 

 Q. How do you fancy your chances tomorrow?
 DAVID FROST: I've got myself right in there now. Another round like this would be great. But you don't go out here and plan things like this. You just go out and try to play one shot at a time, and just try to commit yourself to every shot. If you get some birdie chances, try to roll it in. 

 Q. That was a fine round, 66, joint lowest of the week. 
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, it was a good putting round. Mark O'Meara may be a little upset with all of the putts I made; all of the putts he missed. 
 I had a good feeling for the speed and the reads today. Just one of those things. I enjoyed the round. You know, the weather, the wind is a little -- angles at times so it's hard to really find out where it's coming from. I think a lot of local knowledge would have helped.

 Q. You're right up there going into the final day. That's going to be exciting, isn't it. 
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, I think for me just to have come this far and now being in contention, my focus has definitely changed. But, that doesn't mean my game plan has got to change. 

 Q. It would be nice to win one of these things, wouldn't it. 
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, I thought -- I think this morning or yesterday, time's running out. So I might as well just go for broke. 

 Q. How far was that on the last? 
 DAVID FROST: It was about seven yards. Flag was seven on and I was just on the front edge. 

 Q. What was the longest you had out there today?
 DAVID FROST: That was about it. That was the longest. 

 Q. Nice way to finish. 
 DAVID FROST: There was a bunch of crucial ones but that was the longest. Yeah, a nice way to finish. Played steady on the way in. Got very, very lucky on 16. I pulled my tee shot and ended up getting an amazing lie and hit it on the green from there. But when you make putts and you play a good round, you get lucky.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT