THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 21, 2011
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It was a bit of a rainy day, but you got a nice run. Pretty impressive there.   
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, I struck the ball well off the tee. Put me in position to hit it on the greens. And I putted really well today. It was nice starting out, and, boy, those last five holes, it was like all of a sudden we were in a different continent there.   
 I mean, the temperatures dropped maybe almost 15 degrees. So, yeah, I was very happy with the start. It's nice to not have to dig yourself out of a hole after the first round. So puts me in a good position.  
  
  Q. Take us through the eagle on --  
 DAVID FROST: I hit a driver -- I pulled the driver a little bit. But I was just off the fairway. Hit it through about 20 odd feet and rolled it in the middle.  
  
  Q. Nice to see those go down.   
 DAVID FROST: Yes, the par 5s were there today to play under par for sure. And I capitalized on that. I made -- I played three par 5s 4-under, so that helps. It helps.   
  
  Q. I guess you played in a few, in the European Opens back in the day?  
 DAVID FROST: I never did. This is my first one here. I came around here two weeks ago. I came through on my way to Florence. I played Monday and Tuesday after our tournament in Montreal. And the golf course is way different than it is now. There's so much rain.  
  
  Q. Different challenge.   
 DAVID FROST: Yes.  
  
  Q. Did you like the course?   
 DAVID FROST: I love it. I think it's fantastic. It's a pity, because it's a bump-and-run golf course, and now we're playing it very wet. So it's a little trick standing on the tee and really being focused at the fairway is wide over the bunker, because the fairways are hidden, low bunker cutting in here and there.  
  
  Q. I take it you managed to keep it out of the heather there?  
 DAVID FROST: I hit it into the heather once today.  
  
  Q. Not too bad.   
 DAVID FROST: I made a par out of it. Played it safe.  
  
  Q. What about coming into here?  
 DAVID FROST: I mean, luckily we get a lot of opportunities to play tournaments, week in, week out, so you're always working on your game. You know, I played steady golf. Ready to break through any moment.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT