CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 2010
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH: David, a 65 today. That puts you in position for tomorrow. Just sort of talk about the round. You did finish with a bogey, but you had it going pretty good there.
 DAVID FROST: Thanks for reminding me of that. Appreciate it. (Laughs).
 You know, it's the kind of golf course it's hard to get the ball close to the flags out there. You know, and of course the ball doesn't travel so far. It's also hard to predict, you know, just the different clubs to pull. 
 So I was surprised at obviously Michael Allen shooting 61 out there. I thought I had it going pretty good. But you know, I played well. I made some putts. I missed a few out there today. I thought I could have made two or three putts out there. But then yeah, unfortunately -- I got a bit unlucky on 18 where I hit a good drive and it bounced in the rough and I had too good a lie out there and the ball flew a little bit out of the rough and ended up going over the back of the green. 
 But overall, I would have accepted a 65 as solid play.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Take us through your birdies, if you could.
 DAVID FROST: I birdied No. 2, I made about a 30-footer for birdie. 3, I had a chance from 15 feet I missed. 4 I had a chance from 10 feet I missed. 5, two-putted from 20 feet. 6, two-putted from 20 feet. 7, I birdied. 8, I made a good par putt.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: What did you do at 7? 
 DAVID FROST: 7, I made a birdie. I hit it about four feet.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: With just a wedge? 
 DAVID FROST: 100 yards, yeah. Sand wedge. And No. 8 I made about a 15-footer for par. 9, I missed an 8-footer for birdie. 10, I made a good birdie. I hit a little 58 to about three feet. 
 And then I went on a little run on the back nine. 12, I hit a really good second shot in there from about 205 yards, I hit a 4-iron and made a good 20-footer for birdie. And I think I hit my best drive of the day on No. 13. I hit a driver and a 9-iron on that hole, which was quite -- that's a long hole. 
 And made about a 10-footer for birdie there. Then up the hill on 14 I hit a 6-iron to about 15 feet and didn't make that. 15, I hit a good 7-iron to about 15 feet, made that. And 16, I hit a good driver and a sand wedge to about 10, 12 feet and made that. And 17 I hit about 25 feet and two-putted. And 18, I missed about a 15-footer for par. 
 So you know, I missed a couple that I could have made and rolled a few in. So I think it all evened out.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Can you talk about the situation with your irons? You're using some new irons this weekend. Obviously they're working pretty good.
 DAVID FROST: I got here on Monday, and the fairways were a little damp, a little hairy. They weren't quite firm like we find on inland courses. And I grew up on the coast, and it's just one of those things you do find that fairways aren't as firm and compact as they are on inland courses, or Bermuda for that matter. 
 And I was playing with Mizuno blades, and I just had a stupid thought to try something a little bigger to get a little under the ball rather than off the blades because I didn't think we were going to have lift and clean at the time. I was thinking it would dry out and it would be fine. 
 So I went to the local shop and picked up a set of Mizunos, and I had them reshafted and there they are in the bag.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: You had Micro to reshaft them? 
 DAVID FROST: Yeah. We had a truck here that can do those kind of things.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Okay. Go ahead with questions. 

 Q. Which model Mizunos did you get?
 DAVID FROST: The MP 58. It's kind of a muscleback rather than a blade. 

 Q. David, you've been working hard, I think. I've seen you after rounds; you're working on your swing, stopping on the sidewalk. Was there something you were looking for?
 DAVID FROST: You know, I don't know if it was maybe -- maybe I've had a hard time trying to get these irons that I've been using off the ground and been working too hard. And since you know, as the days have gone along, I've improved my iron play. Today was the best day I had ball striking wise. So you know, maybe it was maybe a switch of clubs. 
 You know, I wasn't quite happy with my iron play, and I worked hard every day this week, and something clicked last night and I started hitting the ball a lot cleaner. I didn't feel that I was hitting it clean enough off the fairway. I thought my divots were a bit fat and heavy. 
 You know, you try about 25 different swing ideas from Wednesday to Saturday, you know, something's gotta bite sooner or later. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: I think we're all done. Continued good luck tomorrow.
 DAVID FROST: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT