SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 29, 2010
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KELLY ELBIN: David Frost, ladies and gentlemen, in with the new competitive course record here at Colorado Golf Club, a 7-under par 65. Takes him to 2-under par for the 71st Senior PGA Championship currently five shots out of the lead. David, 12, 1-putt greens, 24 in all, must have been a pretty magical day out there. 
 DAVID FROST: I struck the ball very from the first tee onwards. The putts I made weren't very long putts. I hit it quite close to the flag on, what was it 2? I hit about a 6-footer for birdie. 
 3, about a 10-footer for birdie. 
 5, I made about a 20-footer for birdie. 
 6, 2-putt from a long way. 
 7, I chipped it to about two feet and made that for birdie. 
 10, I hit it about two feet, made that for birdie. 
 11, I made a 6-footer for par out of a bunker. 
 12? What is 12? Oh, 12 I hit a bad drive and I got very lucky, hit a tree for my second and the ball jumped out short of the green. And a long chip to about six, eight feet and made that for par. 
 13, regulation par. 
 14, I hit a 6-iron off the tee and a sand wedge to about 10 feet. Made that. 
 Then I missed about a 4-footer for birdie on 15. 
 2-putted for birdie on 16. 
 And 2-putted on 17. 
 And made about a 3-footer for par on 18. I made some, I made the putts that you got to make to shoot a good score and not miss any short ones. 
 Then I made just two, I wouldn't say long putts, just out of the out of the 15 foot range. And you're always going to do that if you're going to shoot a low round. 
 KELLY ELBIN: Open it up for questions. 

 Q. Did you see a 65 as a possibility after a 77 yesterday, but you've been shooting some low scores lately on the Champions Tour. 
 DAVID FROST: I've had a bit of inconsistency. I haven't played as well as what I would like to play. I haven't played as consistent as I would like to play. I haven't driven it all that well. 
 And then yesterday afternoon as I came off the, after I shot my 77, I walked on to the practice tee and Tom Watson was hitting balls there. And I just took 20 minutes and watched him warm-up and I picked up a little grip change that I thought I should do and that helped today. 
 So unbeknownst to him I did learn something from him. 
 (Laughter.)
 KELLY ELBIN: For the record, this is David's low individual round on the Champions Tour this year. 

 Q. You mentioned the putting and how that you putted so well. Had you been putting that well coming into this tournament or was it just something today that happened?
 DAVID FROST: Well putting has never been something that I have to worry about, fortunately. 
 I try and be as free as possible over the putter and it's something that's always helped me over the years is my putting. 
 If I shoot a -- if I have a good putting round I can shoot a low score and if I have a bad ball striking round I can save my round by getting it up-and-down when I need to. 
 So the putting has never really bothered me. What's bothered me lately is my hitting. I think I could have picked up something there from Tom. 

 Q. You're right now five shots out of the lead, what is that gap tomorrow which tells you I've got a chance?
 DAVID FROST: These things happen in Majors where somebody comes out of the pack early in the day and gets in contention. More than likely guys don't shoot two low rounds on the weekend after making a big comeback on Saturday, but who knows. 
 You just go out there and you have nothing to lose, just play my game. As I say, I haven't played as well as I would like to, maybe I turned the corner, maybe I found something today that I might look for next week. 
 So I feel happy with the way I struck the ball today and maybe I can have the same attitude tomorrow and the same feel tomorrow as what I had today who know, maybe post a score early on tomorrow, have the wind blow a little harder.
 (Laughter.)

 Q. With the big score on Friday you kind of knew what not to do, did you make any other changes besides the grip, but then your approach to the golf course with two days familiarity on it?
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, that is true. Also come the second round, okay, we don't play to make the cut on the Champions Tour anymore, but still a day like yesterday you want to go out a little bit, you don't want to go out there and freewheel too much. 
 And then going out today you have nothing to lose. You do know the golf course a little better, and so your attitude definitely changes a bit playing the third day versus always guarding a little bit on the second day. 

 Q. What was it about the grip that you changed that made the difference?
 DAVID FROST: I think my left hand was just been too weak on the club. I noticed his left hand is nice and strong on the golf club. I've been wanting to make -- I've been -- I feel there's been something missing and I fiddled with my left hand and fiddled with my right hand and fiddled with my right hand. So I made it a little stronger. 

 Q. Where does this round rank as far as your rounds both in Major Championships or in your career?
 DAVID FROST: Well, I think I played two rounds with Jesse James Thursday, Friday. Mark James. We know him as Jesse. 
 (Laughter.)
 And Ronnie Black too. And it was sort of a nice stroll out there today, two nice guys. We had a chat. That's actually what happens more on the Champions Tour than happens on the Regular Tour. You have a little more -- you have more loose moments on the golf course than on the Regular Tour. 
 Where you, it just happens. It's just the way it is. On the Regular Tour you don't open up as much. 
 But I must say, if I look back at all the Majors that I have played, I played some solid rounds at -- St. Andrews, maybe, ranks right up there with my course record during the 2005 Open at St. Andrews where I shot low round of the week of 65, after shooting 77 in the second round. 
 So I do have the modern day course record at St. Andrews. So it was, I would say it would rank right up there with that one. Even though no one spoke to me about it afterwards. I was way back in the pack. I finished 15th in the tournament, beat Tiger three out of four rounds, but my 77, that was a flat tire out there. 
 (Laughter.)
 KELLY ELBIN: David Frost, the new course record holder with a 65. 
 DAVID FROST: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT