MISSISSIPPI GULF RESORT CLASSIC
May 1, 2010
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH: Nice 6-under 66 today. Earlier in the day we had Gary Hallberg in, and he tied the course record and you did as well. 
 Very nice round. You're at 8-under par through two rounds. Couple general thoughts about your round, and then we'll go hole by hole and hit the highlights.
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, it was a round you sort of had to be -- you know, you can't be too careful in these conditions. You still got to have aggressive shots down the fairway to the right side, to the left side of the flag. 
 Yeah, the wind is tricky starting out. In the middle of the golf course it's helping a lot. And then at the end, the last three holes are tricky again. 
 So it's good that we had a break towards the -- with this kind of wind helping the golf course rather than hurting it.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Your overall impressions of Fallen Oak?
 DAVID FROST: I think it's fantastic. I just wish we caught it on a nice calm week where we can, you know, attack the pins and play aggressively. This is harder. We got to try and play and think about -- you know, you can't be hitting driver off every tee while the tees are up, especially because the wind is so unpredictable and it's the first time we've played here. 
 But it's fantastic. The greens are fantastic. Hospitality is great. You know, win, win, win. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: We'll just go through the highlights of your round, your birdies. 
 DAVID FROST: I birdied the 1st hole. I hit a good drive and a tee shot. Made about an 8-footer for birdie. 
 Then made a lot of good -- missed some birdie putts between there and when I eagled the 6th hole. I had a 7-iron about 12 feet. Big drive over the bunker, and then I had 185 yards to the hole and I hit a 7-iron. 190 yards and I hit a 7-iron, so that gives you an idea how strong the wind was.
 Then I had a nice birdie on 8. 7-iron to about three feet. 
 10, I hit 3-wood and a hundred-yard shot into about 12 feet and made a good downhill putt there.
 11, I made about an 18-footer. Wedged about 18 feet. 
 Then the par-5, I made about an 8-footer for birdie. I didn't hit a good drive. Had to lay it up kind of a short-of-the-green kind of a hole where -- you know, three is on the card there. Didn't hit a good drive, just it was one of those things. I managed to work hard for a birdie. 
 Then hit a lot of good shots coming in. Unfortunately made bogey on 17. But that's okay. I'll take one bogey a round for the rest of my life.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: What did you hit off 17? 
 DAVID FROST: I hit a 5-iron. You know, the wind kind of gusts. It blows and then it stops completely. You can catch it when it's really blowing, and then you've got to hit a club more, and you can get a break and you have no wind.
 PHIL STAMBAUGH: Questions. 

 Q. I noticed watching the TV deal on 17, I know people were talking about hitting it to the right. You actually went for it and ended up on the left side. 
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, I took one -- the other guys I played with hit a 4-iron and came up short. I was sort of trying to smother a 5-iron. So I just hung onto the club a little bit and pulled it. 
 So they were trying to cut a 4-iron and I was trying to knock down a 5-iron. Those are the two different shots. If tried to hit a 4-iron I would have had to try and cut it. I tried to play it the other way.

 Q. I gather you were part of the group that went for Habitat for Humanity the other day. Talk about that experience and what this tournament means this that involvement. 
 DAVID FROST: Well, you know, ever since I've been on the PGA since 1985, we've been in some shape or form at every tournament connected to a charity. You know, this tournament is linked to the Habitat for Humanity. It's just nice to sometimes get to see where the charity funds go to. 
 Yeah, it was nice just to plant a tree and be part of it. You know, as I say, we just -- we like to sort of help where we can. I think the tour does a good job to push us so we can see what we bring to the game. 
 You hear about it, but you never really see it. Sometimes it's very difficult during a tournament -- although on the Champions Tour, we get more time Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday than we did at regular tour. So we're able to do these things.
 Whereas at regular tour, you're busy when you get there and you leave Sunday. You don't have time to do or see anything.

 Q. Did you think the wind helps more on the golf course?
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, a lot holes it helped. Like 1, 2, 3, 4. You're playing hard, and then you have a lot of winds downwind. From 6 to 12 you're playing downwind.
 So a lot of -- but it's strong to play in a wind like this. It's not fun. It's okay if it blows and you've got maybe one club or a club and a half, but sometimes there are three clubs out there.

 Q. You mentioned the 7-iron from 185, 190. What would you normally hit there without any wind?
 DAVID FROST: I mean, yesterday I hit a driver and a 4-iron on that hole. Actually, 3-wood, 4-iron. But, yeah, first of all, you wouldn't hit a drive that far either. So I took it over the bunker there it was 280 yards to carry the bunker. Just flew it over the bunker at 280. Normally you would never attempt that. Normally you would hit about a 5-iron under those conditions, 285. 

 Q. Your group seemed to really be hot. Did you all feed off each other? 
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, I mean, everybody played well in a certain streak at 18 holes. I got off -- Tommy and I got off to a nice start. I had a good patch if the middle and Jay had a good patch in the end.

 Q. What are you expecting tomorrow? I mean, you see the wind today. 
 DAVID FROST: For me, try and be as patient as I can. I've been in a position like this for a long time, so obviously you're going to try and think of -- trying not to think too much ahead. It's just one of those things where you got to keep plugging and be patient. 
 Hopefully with a few holes to go, you got a three- or four-shot lead. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT