THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 4, 2009
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. No bogeys, five birdies; just how pleased are you with that one?
 DAVID FROST: I don't even want to think about it. 
 It was a very pleasant round today. I didn't expect it around here. The golf course isn't really built for my game; it's a little long. And going into the par 4s, is 3-, 4- and 5-irons, and a lot of guys are out there hitting 7-, 8- and 9-irons, as I say I'm very pleased with surprised.

 Q. You had success on the other golf course, but this is a big one for you. 
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, it's a tough course. But considering that we have some roll on the ball, that definitely helps a bit. You know, hopefully it can stay like that for the rest of the week but I doubt it.

 Q. You've not been in the greatest form recently for yourself, a high-quality player. What was the difference today?
 DAVID FROST: Just no mistakes today and yeah, I haven't played well lately. We have played a lot of bad weather, and I think it's just kind of got into my game a bit. Hard to really free it up and play relaxed golf when you've got 20-, 30-mile-an-hour winds blowing. 
 But today was a beautiful day out there. Again, I hope it can stay like that for the week.

 Q. You're renowned for your putting, and your caddie reckons you're the best putter week-in, week-out for the last 20 years that there's been; what do you make of that?
 DAVID FROST: It's one of the parts of the game I find easy to manage. I just try and stick to a good routine. I think a lot of guys get too hyped up with putting, trying to take too long to read a putt and taking too long to even stroke the ball, and I try to just stick to one or two putting thoughts by mainly sticking to my routine.

 Q. When you go to play The Seniors Tour, which you will later this year, where are you going to play?
 DAVID FROST: I'm going to start in the States in September. They have five tournaments left and I'm exempt, so that's where I'll be starting. 

 Q. Can you give us an idea of what your schedule will be like? You've played a few now in Europe, Italy and through since then. What's the plan, to get as competitive as you can before then? 
 DAVID FROST: I think just the playing that I've done this far is all I can do, rather than go and rest and wait for the Tour to come around. I think the best thing I can do is get the right -- there's equipment changes all the time, too, and stay sharp, make putts and hit fairways and put a number down on a scorecard. 
 Those are the things that at the end of the day really matter, is competing, staying competitive. Finishing Top-5, finishing Top-10 out here is a major feat for me right now. I think that's the only thing I can work on.

 Q. Are you finding it harder and harder? 
 DAVID FROST: For sure, it does help when you are hitting 8- and 9-irons into a green rather than a four and a 5-iron. 
 But I've played the game long enough; it's not something that really bothers me. 

 Q. Do you have a set date in mind to start on the Champions Tour? 
 DAVID FROST: I start on the 18th of September. 

 Q. And that's, what, how long after your birthday?
 DAVID FROST: It's a week after. My birthday is the 11th of September, and I start a week after that. 
 It's all a game. One good round today doesn't mean it's going to be four good rounds, but it's nice to get one under the belt. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT