THE EUROPEAN OPEN
July 5, 2008
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Disappointing to bogey the last. But how do you feel about 69 overall?   
 DAVID FROST: If you told me I was only going to have one bogey today, I would have taken that.   
 Yeah, it was unfortunate to not make a par, but again, I'm quite happy with the way I played, and got it up-and-down on 16 and 17. So, I can't be too disappointed.  
  
  Q. How important is experience in these conditions?   
 DAVID FROST: I mean, it is a lot, yeah. You just want to keep trying to hit the fairways, try to hit it on the correct side of the greens.   
 But a lot of times you get a little bit behind the field and you want to try and start firing at the pins. You've just got to work with your caddie and just play to the positions on the greens where you can make a putt from.   
 So, a lot of planning and a lot of patience.  
  
  Q. You made 13 consecutive cuts but haven't had a Top-10. Is this the week that you're going to really push on and maybe even win this thing?   
 DAVID FROST: Well, I've been playing quite well. I've been playing very steady. I just have to try and find a tournament where I was playing four good rounds rather than leaving one in the hotel somewhere.   
 But, you never know. I've always said, as long as you keep knocking on the door, sooner or later it's going to open. So if it's not tomorrow, make it's next week.  
  
  Q. You're not so far qualified for The Open, and there is one spot available for the non-exempt players; is that on your mind, as well?   
 DAVID FROST: Yes and no. I would like to play in the Open obviously. I tried on Monday and unfortunately didn't make it. But it's not something I will think about starting out. Just try and play a good, solid round of golf and the rest will take care of itself.  
  
  Q. Would you like to see it windy again, playing catch-up?   
 DAVID FROST: You know, the way I'm playing, I don't really mind. I'm striking the ball well so I feel I can almost be as aggressive with my game as what I am playing conservative to just hitting spots on the greens.   
 But the forecast, it's going to be windy again.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT