IRISH OPEN
May 17, 2008
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A little disappointed I'm sure to 3-putt the last, but overall how pleased are you with the round?
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, it was disappointing. Maybe the nerves got to me on the short putt there, but I had a good day. Very happy with the way I played. 
 First two days, I didn't drive the ball as well as I would have liked, and today I did. The greens are fantastic. The golf course is fantastic. The weather's been fantastic. So you've got to add a few good scores to all of the fantasticness out here.

 Q. Did you sense there was a good score early on in the round today?
 DAVID FROST: Well, I thought there should have been a lot of good scores over the first to days as well. I thought the golf course was there to shoot 66, 65 on both days. The greens are soft; the fairways are soft; there's no reason the golf course should be playing that difficult.

 Q. Interesting, because a lot of guys were quite difficult, Darren Clarke in particular, saying the greens were quite difficult on the first two days.
 DAVID FROST: Not at all.

 Q. Twenty tournament wins for you or in excess of 20 around the world; looking forward to the juices flowing again tomorrow?
 DAVID FROST: Yeah, I've had a couple of good rounds, or a few good rounds this year; a couple good rounds in Italy last week. Yesterday I played well. 
 So, you know, not to let your mind get too far ahead; I've just got to be careful and just try and stay in the present. 

 Q. South Africa and Ireland are both tied on four wins each at the top of the table; good to first to get them out? 
 DAVID FROST: Well, Ireland had their own going, hopefully I can carry on with it. 

 Q. Rushing off to watch rugby?
 DAVID FROST: Going to watch the Storm beat the Lions this afternoon.
 5, 10-footer and 8-iron there.
 Next hole I hit a 4-iron to 15 feet.
 2-putted 7. 
 10, I got a good up-and-down. I missed the fairway left. 
 11 I had a good up-and-down in the bunker right. 
 And then 13, I chipped in from just left from 20 feet.
 15, I made about a 15-footer with a wedge in there. 
 And then I was unlucky on -- I could have birdied 16. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT