BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 22, 2007
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tell us about today. 
 DAVID FROST:  You know, it was beautiful when we started the first ten holes and then the wind sort of picked up with about seven or eight holes to play and had a lot of great chances on the front nine and made nine pars in a row, missed a fair amount of putts but, you know, just hang in there, and you can't get too disappointed because I was hitting the ball well.  On the back nine I made a couple of long ones. 

 Q.  With those nine successive pars, I can imagine you thinking, come on, this has to quit and when it turns and you get three birdies and four holes -- 
 DAVID FROST:  The thing is I was telling my caddie, there's no point getting upset when you hit a lot of good putts and your ball just doesn't go in.  You want to just stay in the present and play one shot at a time and not think about something that was in the past that was good or bad. 

 Q.  Easier said than done, though. 
 DAVID FROST:  Yeah, but the guys do kind of practise that way of playing, they end up having the energy to go through the 72 holes for the week rather than trying to worry about what happened whether it was good or bad as I say. 

 Q.  You give the impression of staying pretty relaxed on the course, not too much worrying? 
 DAVID FROST:  Yeah, might look that way, but inside it's a little different. 

 Q.  Like the ducks on the water looking serene on top. 
 DAVID FROST:  Yeah, but those are the things that you have to do and the good players do it.  The more you can just try and stay in that frame of mind; I think that's what it takes. 

 Q.  Do you switch off on the course?  That's as important as staying focused and on your game? 
 DAVID FROST:  Again, I don't think you need to switch off.  I think there are times when you can just switch on rather than getting on the course and trying to switch off.  I think two or three minutes before you hit your shot, you can absorb what you have to do and play your practise round and those kind of things, you program in, doing your practise round. 
 But I don't think you need to switch off for somebody to need to be free -- you don't want to get all tight just because you're playing 18 holes of golf. 

 Q.  Take time to enjoy your company and a little bit of conversation out there? 
 DAVID FROST:  Yeah, you know I play with new guys every week that I don't really know, so you catch up. 

 Q.  Your timing is impeccable. 
 DAVID FROST:  Yeah, my timing was impeccable.  The horn went as I was on the first tee and today it went as I got off the 18th.  You know, I can relax for the rest of the day and tomorrow and tee it up tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT