JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
March 2, 2007
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  I'm sure you must be pleased with this?   
 DAVID FROST:  I had a good day. It was very hot out there. Got off to a good start and made some nice putts. The course played more difficult than yesterday, the wind was blowing from a totally different direction. The front nine which I think is the better nine of the two. You need to hit the ball on the fairway, not that you can spray it on the back nine. You have a few doglegs to hit on the back nine. You have 100 yards to hit it to unlike 25 yards down the middle of the fairway. Generally, it's quite hot. I didn't know what to expect. I haven't played in this heat for a while and I'm quite happy with the situation I'm in.   
  
  Q.  You had a good start with four straight birdies?   
 DAVID FROST:  I made long putts, it wasn't like I hit it three feet from the hole. There are many ways to play the golf course, many ways to play golf. You just have to take it as it comes.   
  
  Q.  When was the last time you played in the heat?   
 DAVID FROST:  Maybe like the South African Open in Durban two years ago. Maybe this hot. It's very humid. I've done it before. You just try to relate to the times that you've been through it then it's second nature almost.   
  
  Q.  Is it something that you just deal with?   
 DAVID FROST:  Yeah, you deal with it. You just got to keep thinking it's the same for everybody. It's not like they're feeling any better than you do. Those are the thoughts that you have to keep in your mind.   
  
  Q.  You're in a nice position?   
 DAVID FROST:  It's good to be in a position for the weekend. It's not like you've shot the lights out in the first two rounds and think what's left. You can just keep building on your first two rounds and aim for two rounds in the sub-70s and pick up a good cheque. Even if 10 under is leading by tonight, minus five is still in reach. Quite happy with that.   
  
  Q.  I take it you still have a great appetite for this game?   
 DAVID FROST:  I really enjoy playing. I'm not looking forward to the next two years but I am because I'm going through the transition gap between the regular tour and senior tour. I've got two years for that. I enjoy playing and will keep figuring out the game. Maybe one day I'll get it to the way I want it. I feel fortunate that I reached the heights that I managed to reach over the last 25 years and I still feel competitive.   
  
  Q.  Do you like teaching the youngster a thing or two?   
 DAVID FROST:  I don't like teaching them. Maybe they just pick up a few tips here and there. Maybe from demeanour versus technique. I think they have the technique, a lot different from when I grew up. They hit the ball harder and further. I played with a young guy from Australia (Andrew Tampion) and they can just learn how to manage their game as a youngster. I remember playing with Ray Floyd and Hale Irwin and I picked up things playing with them.   
  
  Q.  You might end up playing with a promising South African Anton Haig?   
 DAVID FROST:  I played with him with Goosen and Els in practice and they were hitting the ball 60 yards past me. I've been in Anton's company in the last two years playing on the South African Tour. He's a young guy and it's nice to have a career ahead of them.   
  
  Q.  When was the last time you played in Asia?   
 DAVID FROST:  It was probably in the Hong Kong Open back in 1996.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT