WORLDCOM CLASSIC--THE HERITAGE OF GOLF
April 18, 2002
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thanks for joining us.  Good day today out there?
DAVID FROST:   That's the nice thing about getting an early tee time.  At Hilton Head the conditions are always better in the morning than in the afternoon, just because you're at the coast, and the conditions -- not that they get bad, but it picks up a little bit in the afternoon.  And obviously the greens are more receptive to the shots in the morning than they are later in the day. 

Putting as well, the greens are smoother in the morning.  So you really want to try and capitalize on your early tee time by coming out and maybe shooting a good round as opposed to battle your way back tomorrow afternoon, because we play tomorrow afternoon. 

That's always been my -- it's just harder coming back and shooting a good round in the afternoon, after shooting just an even par or 1-under par in the morning.  I kind of found myself in that position two weeks ago where I shot 72 in the morning.  The conditions were easy.  And then the conditions were difficult and I shot 67, and that being the low round in the afternoon, the conditions were tough.  But you don't want to put yourself in that position all the time. 

Q.   When you know that you have that first round early tee time, does it put any pressure on you to get that good round, say I've got to do it now?
DAVID FROST:  No.  But I think it -- in your mind you feel good.  I have an early tee time early, I can post a low score, and then I can play golf on Friday afternoon as opposed to shooting a one-under, even, on Thursday morning, now your mind frame changes for Friday.  And irrespective of what I do tomorrow, it doesn't matter, I can go out and it's not like I have to perform now.

Q.   What is it about Harbour Town?  You seem to just -- is this one of your favorite places to play?
DAVID FROST:  Well, it's not a golf course where you want to go at the flags.  The other courses, the greens are big, they tuck the flags, you feel you have to go to the flag.  This is the kind of golf course ,no matter where you hit the ball on the green you're going to be 15 feet, 18 feet from the hole.  I've never been someone that sort of attacked the flag. 

I'm fairly committed when I'm on the golf course to play left and right of the pins, and my putting has been one of my strong parts of my game.  So I come here, I rely on my putting, and hopefully by the end of the week it's working.  But it's a fun golf course to play.  I was playing with Charles Howell and Brett Quigley today.  I think it's Charles's first time he's here, and Brett the second time.  They really enjoyed it, too.  I was much older, I felt like a granddaddy.

Q.   How did Charles play?
DAVID FROST:  He shot 3-under.  But I was saying to them, I know I've always been ten years older than -- he said he's 22.  But I guess it's nice to -- for me it's been nice to just be around the great players of the game and now again being around the younger superstars, and I'll be out of the game, and they'll be really in top form.  Just nice to have played with them and beat them as well.

Q.   You think -- do you feel like you can still beat them, you're not thinking Senior Tour already?
DAVID FROST:  No, no.  I feel my game is on the edge.  I've felt the last month that I'm close to doing what I did today and I just need to capitalize on this and try to make it roll over from one round to the next, maybe shoot three more rounds like this as opposed to just being happy with one.

Q.   When you're playing somebody like Howell, do you just feel that the age, the wisdom, the experience as much as anything is the edge?
DAVID FROST: No, I don't think anything.  I didn't think about this on the golf course, but I go back to myself, when I played the Tour in '85, '86, I remember specifically -- I remember specifically, I'm not trying to compare myself me to these guys either ,but I remember playing with Hale Irwin and Ray Floyd in one round at Coral Springs, the Honda there, and those -- I remember specifically playing with them.  And they don't impress you on the first five or six holes, but come at the end of the round they're three or four under par, and they hit it down the middle, hit it on the green, and at the end of the day they've shot a good score.  So it's just all memories that I have from playing with experienced players out there.

Q.   That's the way they're looking at you now?
DAVID FROST:  Well, maybe so. 

Q.   How did you play 16?
DAVID FROST:  I hit a 3-wood and pitching wedge to about eight feet and missed the putt.

Q.   Lots of them were missing it out there?
DAVID FROST:  Yeah, it's kind of in a tough spot.  The flag is back left and there's a slopey cup there.  But 16, you make par, you don't make that bad.  You make bogey, you feel like an idiot.  Because it's almost a 2-iron line on the hole.  And you make birdie, you feel like it's a bonus.  I was lucky to have birdied 17 and 18. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Go through your round. 
DAVID FROST:  On 11 I made a 20-foot putt for birdie, driver, 7-iron.

15 I just pushed my second a little bit, and I missed the green with my third, and I chipped up six feet and missed the putt.

And then on 17 I hit a 6-iron about 15 feet. 

And 18 I hit a driver and 9-iron about 20 feet and made that.

And on the front 9 I made No. 2, I pushed my driver a bit and laid it up with a 7-iron, hit a wedge for about 12 feet and made that for birdie.

Chipped up and putted for par on No. 3, missed the green left.

On No. 5, the par-5, I missed the green left, left of the bunker, I made a good up-and-down.  That's a tough green to chip to.  You're better off leaving yourself way back.  I chipped up about eight feet and made it for birdie.

No. 6 I missed the green just right.  And I chipped it in for birdie.

And then parred 8.

No. 9 I hit a bad shot, hit the tree, kicked it out, but I made it for birdie. 

Q.   You seem to have  -- when you come down here, your purpose is kind of twofold, you're playing golf and also kind of selling your wine; is that correct?
DAVID FROST:  Well, there's some good restaurants around here, and I guess the people around the restaurants feel the wine is okay and they don't mind selling it.  Yeah, I've done some good promotions here at Cafe Europa and CQ's.  The wine has been well received by the guys that own the place.  And I'm quite happy with the product so far.

Q.   Is that part of the reason that you come here?
DAVID FROST:  No.  It just coincides -- there's some places I don't promote the wine, some states are a little slower than other states.  But this is so convenient, where you've got all your restaurants.  A lot of people come and visit.  And I'm fortunate enough that I knew the owners of the restaurants before I had the wine business.  And being friends with them, they've helped me out in the wine business, too.  So it's obviously helping my business.

Q.   Do you sell more if you play well?
DAVID FROST:  Well, I know I will sell more if I play well. 

Q.   Do you ever come other times of the year down here?
DAVID FROST:  I was just saying that to Brett Quigley today, we were talking about a golf course somewhere.  And I just said, you know, I'd love to play some of the other courses.  I've never played Pine Valley, I've never played mayor an.  Your schedule is so tough from the beginning to the end that the time you have off the Tour, you prefer to be home and not play golf.  So I'm looking forward to my retirement some day, if I'm going to have one, where you can have fun and go play golf when I leave home, socially. 

JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us, we appreciate it. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT