GREATER GREENSBORO CHRYSLER CLASSIC
April 23, 1998
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DAVID FROST:  I'm, obviously overwhelmed with the result of my round.  I did hit a lot of good shots out there today and, as it turned out, I ended up shooting a round that was a good start to the tournament.  It was very, very wet out there.  I think the course will just get easier as the week goes along.  I don't think it will get more difficult.  But all and all, as I say, I am quite happy. 
 

Q.  How many fairways did you miss?  Did you get in any of that thick rough out there?
 
DAVID FROST:  Yeah, I missed a couple.  Missed about five fairways, but got it up-and-down.  The one time I did miss the fairway, big time, was 13.  What is the par 5, par 4? 
 

Q.  13.
 
DAVID FROST:  13 -- 14.  And I hit it left of the green, chipped it up about ten feet and made the putt for par.  You know, overall, I played well.  I hit the driver well.  Hit the irons really well.  I'll just go through my round.  No. 2, I missed the fairway left, hit a 7-iron out, hit a 9-iron about three feet, made that for birdie.  No. 4, I 3-putted for bogey; it is a par 3.  No. 6, hit driver 8-iron about two feet.  7, driver, 3-wood, 7-iron about 3 inches.  No. 8, I hit 3-iron three feet.  No. 9, I hit a pitching wedge about eight feet; made that for birdie.  No. 11, I hit a 9-iron about 3 inches from the hole.  Then 18, hit driver and 6-iron about 15 feet and Kenny Perry was on exactly the same lines that I was and gave me a read and he made his putt and I made mine, so that helped me out a little bit. 
 

Q.  What is the rough like?  Have you seen rough like this in a while?
 
DAVID FROST:  Yeah, well, I mean, I have seen worse.  You can get a wedge, you can hit it comfortably.  You can hit it 100, 120 yards out of there.  The only thing is, you try and get greedy, try and get too cute and you try and hit 7-iron out as opposed to a 9-iron or pitching wedge. Then you hit the next shot in the rough, then you have no control for your third shot to try and get it on the green. So, try and take your penalty and, you know, hit yourself in a position to be aggressive for your next shot.  It is always easy to say that when I am hitting here, and, you get out there and the temptation is bigger. 
 

Q.  Did you feel you had a 66 in you when you first started out this morning?
 
DAVID FROST:  No, I was very happy about the delay. And more so that, you know, we didn't have good weather to play in and the guy -- I was more concerned us going out in the rain and the weather was going to be from 10:00, 11:00 onwards.  As it turned out, we got a good break in the delay and it wasn't as cold as I expected either this morning.  So I was, you know, pleased the way it turned out.  To answer your question, no, I wouldn't say I felt like I had a 66 in me when I teed up this morning.  I was actually -- Sunday night after Hilton Head, I was going to drive up to Myrtle Beach because I had met a friend out in Hilton Head and he wanted to show me Myrtle Beach.  I had never been there.  I had never hadn't played well.  All of next week, my putting was great, but I hit the ball terrible.  I went down to see David Leadbetter for the day.  I drove down to Orlando, Florida, spent all day Monday there.  He went overseas Monday night.  As it turned out, it was worth the trip. 
 

Q.  Could your 66 even have been better?
 
DAVID FROST:  No.  Maybe the 3-putt I had, but, no, I will take that.  I will take 3 more, though. 
 

Q.  What were you working on with David?
 
DAVID FROST:  Actually, I didn't work on any mechanics.  My swing -- I have been working on a lot of my mechanics and he felt my swing was just too slow, so I just speed up the swing which made the swing a little longer by itself and got me turning a little better.  I have been working hard this year on some mechanics and, you know, as a result, it wasn't there - wasn't that much mechanics to work on, and just sped up the swing. 
 

Q.  How long have you worked with Leadbetter?
 
DAVID FROST:  Since 1984.  I came out to the Tour school in 1984 from -- for the Tour school in 1984 and, at that time, he was the Greneleve in Florida and spent, you know -- spent two weeks there before I had qualified in Titusville and, you know, I actually met him long before that, 1979.  I played the qualifier rounds of the South African Open with him.  It was in 1979, obviously, and I made it and he missed.  I remember the name, but never thought of what he would actually end up doing some day. 
 

Q.  Each time you played here in Greensboro, have you played this well, thinking back?
 
DAVID FROST:  No, but I have always felt that it is a golf course that does suit my game.  The greens are kind of, you know, even more so now where you have got to really -- where the pins are tucked away and you have got to  fire at the flags.  But as I said, I have always felt, as a golf course, it is one that I should do well on.  Generally speaking, the courses that I started out on in my career -- on the U.S. Tour, the courses that I thought I would do well and I have actually done well on them except this one.  I have finished -- I think I finished 8th here one year. 
 

Q.  Is this the time to do that?
 
DAVID FROST:  You never know. 
 

Q.  What are some of the other courses that you thought --
 
DAVID FROST:  Westchester, I thought, was a golf course that I should do well on.  I ended up winning there.  I loved Glen Abbey in Canada; ended up winning there.  I enjoyed Colonial.  I ended up winning there.  I actually enjoyed Muirfield.  I never won there, but I finished third and second and fourth.  I enjoy Hilton Head.  I have never won there, but I finished second.  I have the course record there; finished third and fourth, respectively.  So, you know, generally -- you know, it is almost pointless going to play golf courses that you don't like. All golf courses don't suit everybody on Tour and I think there are obviously courses that suit a long hitter and there are courses that suit a straight hitter.  So you have got to go out there and sort of pick your tournaments as well. 
 

Q.  Why do these courses you have listed suit your game?
 
DAVID FROST:  Well, I think it is a golf course that takes a bit of patience when it comes to hitting approach shots into the greens.  I think it takes a lot of planning off the tees.  Generally, you know, iron-play has always been my strong point when I am playing well.  And putting -- I think putting plays a big role, too. 
 

Q.  What do you think it is that has kept you from maybe winning here?
 
DAVID FROST:  I don't know.  I don't know.  Ask me that question on Monday.  No, I really don't know.  I don't know what it is. Maybe it is just the time of the year.  Maybe end of April is not a good time for my momentum.  I don't know. 
 

Q.  I notice in the Media Guide you own a vineyard in South Africa.  How is that enterprise going?
 
DAVID FROST:  It is very exciting.  I bought it in 1994 and my brother, he runs the vineyard.  We have 300 acres and we have 40 acres of table grapes, which is the first to produce, and then we have 40 acres in the wine grapes, cabernet and merlot.  I have got a quite a bit in the barrel right now which will be ready in January and I will bring it over here. 
 

Q.  How does playing here different than playing  somewhere else or playing in a major?
 
DAVID FROST:  Well, I think especially after Augusta, working our way through, you really gear yourself to play Augusta and then, obviously, the work that you have put in should carry on into Hilton Head.  I have been on a three-week trip where I have played Augusta, Hilton Head and here.  So, in a way, I am prepared to do well than -- Hopefully, if I do good in that position, it is what I have worked towards the last three weeks.  And, I think that is quite important, you know, the majors sort of put you in that frame of mind.  I'd say you are coming out being prepared to win a major more often than when you come out winning a regular tournament simply because I think because there are only four majors and there are 40 other golf tournaments you play.  So I think that adds a bit of an influence that there are only four and you come out with that frame of mind. 
 

Q.  Travel around some of the wine countries in Virginia or California?
 
DAVID FROST:  I haven't had a chance to get -- I did visit the Selenus Valley (ph) when I played Pebble Beach.  I spoke to somebody at Williamsburg about the area down there because I know they grow some there, but I don't want it to -- I don't want it to take too much of my time while I am still trying playing golf.  It does and I have got to be a little careful there because I am trying to make too many plans.  I am trying to get the TPC to stock the wine at all their clubs, so -- 
 
DAVID FROST:  Well, we have 2,000 cases of Merlot and 2,000 cases of cabernet that are in the barrel right now and it has been there for six months, so it will take another six months and my the 1998, see we pick in February whereas in California they pick in September, so, I will have 2,000 cases of cabernet from the '98 vintage it will be ready end of 1999.  So, I don't actually have it in the bottle yet.  I will give you a straw and you can taste it out of the barrel. 
 

Q.  Any other wine makers on Tour?
 
DAVID FROST:  Well, not wine makers, but wine connoisseurs.  And a lot of them.  Duffy is a big wine collector.  Jeff Sluman, he is quite into his wines, and Davis is, yeah, Davis does everything, wines, cigars, boats, deer, guns, so. 
 

Q.  Are you quite the connoisseur yourself?
 
DAVID FROST:  I am learning a lot as well.  It is funny, I always used to say - not that I have thought I would be in a business of this nature - but I always used to say if you can produce something that people consume, you will end  up -- you can end up making a lot of money some day, so hopefully I will end up making a lot of money some day. 
 

Q.  How is it going, you say you are trying to get the TPC to stock your wine?
 
DAVID FROST:  Well, first of all, I have got to bring it to them in the bottle.  I don't want to sell a wine just because of my name.  I want to make sure it is a good quality wine.  And when I do bring it out, I'd like to have the TPCs try it and put it on their wine list.  I did approach a wine maker from California this year to go out and give me some advice on what I need to do because as I say their season is opposite.  They pick in September and we pick in March.  And, they have a lot of dead time and he was happy to go out there.  So, hopefully we can strike up a relationship and he can be my wine maker over there and in California. 
 

Q.  What will the name of it be?
 
DAVID FROST:  I think it is going to be David Frost Vineyards.  So, if I win a tournament, I will end up getting you guys all drunk.  I will have to make some champagne.  All right.  Thanks. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT