THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 2, 1996
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID FROST:  Yeah, I did have a good start.  I birdied -- well, I wouldn't say the start.  Middle of the front 9, I made some nice birdies.  I birdie 4, 5, 6, missed a short one on 7 for birdie and birdied 8.  But it was a good day for me to play because the conditions weren't dry, which made the long hitters play the par fives easier.  I needed it to be wet, so they couldn't reach the par fives, because nobody was going to do that.  Yeah, it was a bit windy, but not as penalizing normally as it would have been if the winds had blown and the conditions were drier.  That helped us, the bit of the rain that there was.  But overall, I am quite happy with my play.  I played so badly the first three days.  I never want those three days over again, and last night I went across the street to Cregen Pappas who is the head pro at Muirfield, and he gave me a lesson; came out today and shot 67.  Apart from that --

DAVID FROST:  Birdied 4 from six feet.  Hit 4-iron.  5:  I hit a pitching wedge to six feet and birdied that.  6:  I hit a 6-iron about 18 feet, birdied that.   8:  I hit 5-iron 6 feet, birdied that.  13:  I hit a terrible drive; hit it trees left, actually got lucky, didn't go in the water, and made a bogey there.  14:  I 3-putted.  Hit a wedge to the green 40 feet, 3-putted.  And 15, I hit it next to the green in two; chipped it down twelve feet; made it for birdie.  16:  Hit a 5-iron three feet, made that for birdie.  17:  Hit a 9-iron trap on the left about twelve feet. That was it.  Could have been better, could have been worse.


Q.  What did Cragen do for you yesterday, David, or last night?

DAVID FROST:  I was opening the club way too fast going back, and he wanted me to make my left wrist, you know, close a little bit going back as opposed to opening.  And I am staying with some people, Tom Fries that I stay with every year, and he -- the only one golf tape he had was a Wild World of Sports, some ABC thing that Nicklaus did and I kept watching that all morning.  I saw, you know, how he made the left hand go under.  I watched it all night or last night for about an hour; this morning for about an hour.  It really stuck in my mind.  I just played the front 9 brilliantly today.  I hit a bad shot on 9, my second shot.  Apart from that, I really hit the ball well. 


Q.  Was it strange to be chasing Tom Watson after, you know, it has been awhile -- did it feel unusual to be seeing Watson's name on top of the board and be chaseing him?

DAVID FROST:  Watson's name is always on top of the board.  Always blows out in the last round, but as I just said outside, you know, his ball-striking has been as good as anybody else's up there the last few years, just a couple of putts that have gotten away from him.  Mentally, it is hard to stay with it when you keep missing putts; keep missing putts, to stay there, but his ball-striking overall has been great.

DAVID FROST:  Got to go to work again.


Q.  Nice finish.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT