THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 28, 2013
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DAVID FROST:   For me, I should be happy with the result.   I didn't play my best off the tee.   My iron game was good, but unfortunately I didn't bring my driving game here this week.   And, you know, if you want to win these tournaments, you have to have your whole package here.   
You know, I guess I can't be too disappointed, finishing third amongst such an elite group.   
   
 Q.   And points to how well you've done in and around the greens, doesn't it.   
DAVID FROST:   The greens, I liked them.   The speed was good.   I found it easy to read them.   Made some crucial putts for par saves.   Missed one or two for birdie.   Should have birdied 14, 15 out there today.   
But, you know, ready to try and fix what's a little bit broken right now.  
   
 Q.   I take it there was optimism still pretty late in the day here that something could happen.   
DAVID FROST:   Yeah, I was hoping that I would like gold after the rain delay.   Didn't happen.   
   
 Q.   A playoff to come; what's your take on what's just happened on the 18th with your playing partner?  
DAVID FROST:   Well, Bernhard is so strong, strong‑minded, he'll obviously make it like it didn't even happen.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised like everybody there?  
DAVID FROST:   You know, I wasn't even watching.   And I looked after he hit the shot, yeah, I was surprised, very surprised.   I don't know if he tried to take a chance and get it too close, but these bunkers are so tricky, and maybe he got a bit of a skid because the bunkers are a little wetter now rather than it the powdery sand like we had.   So the club could have skidded before it hit the ball rather than digging.  
   
 Q.   Tell me you're okay; that you got flights all in order and you're not missing things?  
DAVID FROST:   No, I've got a flight in the morning, so I'm okay.   
   
 Q.   And what's next for you?  
DAVID FROST:   We play in Minnesota, then a week off.   I'm in good position on the Charles Schwab back in the States, so you know, finish out the year and then I'll see you guys in Mauritius.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT