THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2013
David Frost
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Second consecutive round of 68, how about that one for you?   
DAVID FROST:   Well, today was a shaky round, if I can call it that.   Wasn't quite comfortable with a club in my hands.   But luckily the putter felt good in my hands today, and putted really well hit some wayward shots and managed to hit good iron shots into the greens, and the putter was, you know, my savior today.   
   
 Q.   How about some of those bunker shots, you were having to get your body in some very strange positions?  
DAVID FROST:   Yeah, I tell you, I have grass burns now.   Unfortunately what happens here, the ball kind of rolls back down and enters from the back of the bunker and sometimes it's on a downslope.   I was actually happy just to get the ball out, so I had a par putt from there.   Just, you know, links golf.   
   
 Q.   I understand you've been taken in by a local.   Tell me about that, staying with a local on the course here?  
DAVID FROST:   Yeah, we were a little disappointed with the hotel, and in search of a hotel on Monday morning.   One of the locals ran across to the tent with the courtesy cars and she said, you know, we live down the road here about 200 yards, you're welcome to come and stay.   I had to take up their offer for Mary Schofield and Graham for having us.  
   
 Q.   68, 68, if I were to compare the two 68s, I would say this one was a little more of a struggle?  
DAVID FROST:   Yeah, the club felt a little clumsy in my hand today.   Just wasn't feeling comfortable with the club, but luckily the timing with the putter was there.   
   
 Q.   The bunker shots on the two par 3s, 12 and 14, were pretty awkward, but the good thing is you didn't get grass on your pants?  
DAVID FROST:   That's why I pulled my pants up.   Actually the pants were slippery on the grass so I pulled my pants over the legs to give me more grip from my skin to the grass.   Luckily I didn't slip in my swing.   But that's just links golf and you've just got to eat it up.   
The thing is after two rounds, you want to be in contention and after three rounds you want to be in contention.   Just when that back nine comes around on Sunday when you're reaching the lead, you know, a lot of things can happen on links golf courses.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on being 4‑under par at this championship at the halfway stage?   
DAVID FROST:   Well, I feel a bit lucky today.   My swing wasn't quite in sync today.   Managed to scramble for a bunch of pars, made some good birdies, and you know, it's such a long tournament, and you just want to, you know, stay in reach and hope your swing comes together in the last two days.   
I hit some good shots towards the end there, which gives me a bit of hope again.   Just wasn't quite finding my arm and my body swing today, and luckily the putter saved me.  
   
 Q.   The nature of links golf, isn't it, you're bound to have some problems at some stage regardless of the weather?  
DAVID FROST:   You just have to play stupid and make like you never hit those bad shots.   That's the psyche of the game.  
   
 Q.   And you've been fighting a bit of a war health‑wise?   
DAVID FROST:   Just had a bit of a skin cancer scare here, which luckily they got it out.   You know, they say it's fine, the skin cancer, doesn't go any deeper, so the doctor have taken care of it.  
   
 Q.   Tell me about the luck you've enjoyed around this course, not in terms of play, but living here.   
DAVID FROST:   We were a little bit disappointed with the hotel and checked out on Monday morning.   And one of the locals ran across the parking lot after searching for a room in town, and Mary and Graham Schofield took us in, 200 yards down the road, and they have got a wine cellar in the garden.   That makes it all the better.   
   
 Q.   Ideal for this week.   
DAVID FROST:   Yeah, know, hopefully Sunday night we can break open a good bottle.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT