BREEDERS' CUP WORLD THOROUGHBRED CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 5, 2011
Robby Albarado
B. Wayne Hughes
Dale Romans
Ned Toffey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We'll now have the connections of Court Vision. We've got everybody in place, and we're joined by the connections of Court Vision, winner of the recently completed TVG Breeders' Cup Mile and Court Vision had a win mutual of $131.60, the second longest shot in the history of the Breeders' Cup behind the unforgettable Arcangues. We have trainer, Dale Romans; jockey Robby Albarado; B. Wayne Hughes of Spendthrift Farm; and Ned Toffey, racing manager, general manager at Spendthrift. Congratulations to all of you. 
 I guess first I'll ask Mr. Hughes, congratulations. You won back in action this day with one of the more unlikely Breeders' Cup winners forever, perhaps at least on paper in Court Vision. You purchased the horse earlier this year, I believe presumably as a stud prospect. He hadn't hit the board in his last six races. Here he is as the winner of the Breeders' Cup Mile. What gave you the confidence to even run the horse today? 
 B. WAYNE HUGHES: Well, I guess Dale Romans is the difference. It's crystal clear in my mind. We expected to run well. Robby had worked him and said he worked better than maybe for quite some time. But we didn't expect to win. I didn't expect to be sitting here. 
 And so probably I don't really have anything to contribute other than the fact that Dale took the horse at our request, and sometimes a good change is good for the horse. I think this is the case. 
 We had the best jockey in the world on him. So all we did was just buy him. Okay. So thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: Robby, Breeders' Cup win number three for you. Congratulations. Previously, Curlin and Tapitsfly, trained by Dale Romans. Dale's had him for two races, same with Mr. Hughes and Spendthrift. You've kind of been the constant in the Court Vision story. You were aboard him back when he was winning the Woodbine Miles, and you were also riding him during kind of the down period earlier this year. Can you trace for us the ups and downs of Court Vision that led us here today? 
 ROBBY ALBARADO: Sure. It's kind of like my own story. He stuck with me through the ups and downs. I can't thank him enough for being behind me throughout this year especially. 
 Court Vision, he has been up and down throughout his career. I've worked him quite a few times too. He's pretty -- you can evaluate him off his works. He'd been doing really good the beginning of Saratoga, and then he switched hands in the middle of summer, went to Dale, and he started training poorly. 
 Dale brought him to Canada, and he did get beat before that day. Got a little tired that day. Since then, every work was better and better and better. His last work last week, which you can watch on equiCam. When I worked him, it was pretty neat. 
 I told the guys, I said, this is the best he's done since I've been getting on him for two years now. I attribute that to Dale giving him that undivided attention and treating him like the great run horse he is. 
 THE MODERATOR: Dale, congratulations. What were your thoughts when you first got Court Vision? Obviously, his form wasn't glittering at that point. How important was what Robby was telling you in your own calculations and where to spot and where to run him. 
 DALE ROMANS: It was very important. I've been a fan of Court Vision from the time he was purchased at the 2-year-old sale. I liked him then and didn't have enough money to buy him myself. I followed him ever since because of that. 
 He's an unusual horse. He's 6 years old and still going at it and winning grade 1s. So I was really pleased when they called and told me I had a chance to train for the end of his career. 
 THE MODERATOR: Mr. Hughes and Ned, what's the immediate future hold for Court Vision? If you were thinking about standing him presumably, as it was, certainly nothing today would steer you off of that. What do the next six months hold for him? 
 NED TOFFEY: Well, we've already made plans for him to go to Canada, and that's what he'll do. He'll come to the farm. We'll let the breeders take a look at him during the November sale, and then he'll ship up to Canada and Park Stud. 
 THE MODERATOR: Before we throw it to the media, Mr. Hughes, if you would, as somebody who's been involved in this game for a long time and put your all into it, if you would comment on Goldikova and what she's meant to the event and how it feels, not that she was right behind you, but you were the one that won the Breeders' Cup Mile that she didn't. Could you comment on Goldikova? 
 B. WAYNE HUGHES: Well, I guess I'd have to say, my mind was like frozen. I didn't know where anyone finished other than ourselves, and I wasn't even sure of that. So I probably don't really have any comment that. I'm sorry she didn't win, but I'm glad we did. 
 THE MODERATOR: All right. Questions?

 Q. Mr. Romans, the tote board said 60-1. How would you have rated your chances? You read the form all the time. 
 DALE ROMANS: I thought he had a big chance today. For the last couple of weeks, he's just been topping himself. He only got beat three lengths in Canada, which was the first race off of a longer layoff. We had a little bet on him. 
 I don't think retirement's coming up. It's going to be a good dinner tonight.

 Q. Robby, how do you feel how the horse was traveling during the course of the run? Were you confident at all? 
 ROBBY ALBARADO: Sure, I was pleased pretty much. Not only was I on Court Vision, but I had a whole field vision. So I got to see everyone in the race and where they were. 
 Last year when I run against Goldikova, I tried to follow her around there and made the move a little earlier than I needed to with him, and I think that compromised him in the race. This year I tried to let him run his own race like he would. 
 Dale said just let him finish his way. So he was way out and running late, but he did. He was a little more out than I wanted him to be, but I didn't want to get him stopped and let him get the momentum worked out.

 Q. Mr. Toffey, can you talk about the parks that you mentioned in Canada instead of Kentucky, and just what you guys association is with the place in Canada? 
 NED TOFFEY: Well, Canada's obviously getting to be a really strong market. We've been looking for a horse to stand there. Court Vision is a horse that our team identified as a horse that might be a nice stallion prospect. We had a lot of internal debate about where we would stand him. We finally did settle on Canada. 
 Park Stud is owned by Michael Byrne. It's in Ontario. They do a wonderful job. We made that commitment, and that's where he'll be standing. 
 THE MODERATOR: Who else stands there? 
 NED TOFFEY: Mary Field, and I believe that's it. 
 THE MODERATOR: Is it spelled P-a-r-k? 
 NED TOFFEY: K-e, I believe.

 Q. Dale, could you tell us specifically how the horse was padding himself in the days leading up to the race? 
 DALE ROMANS: He was just moving so good over the racetrack. He's in the bottom of the tub. He's moving well over the racetrack. His coat was really good. 
 When you have a horse that's got that much back class and didn't get beaten by far by these horses already, even with Goldikova. You've got to think you have a chance even if we are 55-1.

 Q. By your estimation, how many high fives did you give out? 
 DALE ROMANS: My hands are pretty sore. It was a bunch of them. I've got a lot of family and friends here, and I think I got them all. 
 THE MODERATOR: That was Dale referring to Coors Light. 
 Dale, this wasn't your only success of the day. While we have you, could you comment on Shackleford who ran second behind Caleb's Posse in Dirt Mile? 
 DALE ROMANS: To run second is always bitter sweet in a race like this. Especially like a Derby. I know what it feels like to think you're going to win the Derby and also know what it feels like to think you're going to win a Breeders' Cup Mile with this horse. He gives his all every single time. Couldn't be prouder of his year. 
 Very few horses I've trained have missed a work, a gallop or anything he's been pointing towards. So now he's going to get some deserved race. 
 THE MODERATOR: Greatest day of your training career? 
 DALE ROMANS: It's pretty good. This day was great, I'll tell you what. This horse proved us right. I felt like he was doing so good he did deserve to be in this race, and he proved us all right.

 Q. The USC quarterback set a passing record the other night. You figured that's a good omen for you? 
 B. WAYNE HUGHES: Well, I stayed up all night to watch the game. I was a little pooped this morning. Yeah, that's a good omen. The whole thing is great. This is a great racetrack, great program, great Breeders' Cup. I'm just delighted to be here and thank you.

 Q. That was against my Colorado, by the way. 
 THE MODERATOR: All right. This has been a Breeders' Cup with all sorts of surprises, and this is certainly one of them. Happy surprise. Court Vision winning the TVG Breeders' Cup Mile. Congratulations to trainer Dale Romans, jockey Robby Albarado, Wayne Hughes of the Spendthrift Farm and Ned Toffey, general manager of Spendthrift. Thanks for getting another Breeders' Cup Mile. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT