BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 11, 2004
Jim Boeheim
Gerry McNamara
Hakim Warrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
COACH JIM BOEHEIM:  I thought they just killed us on the backboards in the second half.  Our defense was good.  We couldn't get the ball back off the boards.  They outrebounded us, I think, 15 in the second half.  That was the difference in the game.  We had some opportunities down the stretch, and we just didn't capitalize.  But they're a good team.  They played well at the end.  They made the plays at the end of the game, and we didn't.  
 
Q.  Tough to lose the game, but do you like the rest, to have some rest to get ready for the NCAAs at all? 
 
COACH JIM BOEHEIM:  Stupid question.  Next question.  Yeah, I like to lose.  Yeah, I like to lose.  Next question.  You haven't asked a question... Go back to Syracuse, will you, please.  
 
Q.  When you guys got outrebounded like you did tonight, what do you look at?  You guys got outworked underneath the basket?
 
COACH JIM BOEHEIM:  I don't know.  I don't know if we got outworked.  We did a good job initially.  We committed to stopping them.  Then I just don't think we reacted well to the ball and got the ball. But we've been very good in late-game situations.  Gerry thought we had something with a-minute-eleven to go.  Terrance probably had a good layup and cross underneath the basket, if he had gone up on the same side.  But a freshmen, made a freshman mistake there.  We had some opportunities late, that we got the ball in the right people's hands, and we just didn't convert.  But we needed to rebound better than we did.  
 
Q.  (Question regarding the tempo of the game)?
 
COACH JIM BOEHEIM:  We won our last five games holding people to 54 points a game.  It's our tempo.  We like that tempo, too.  
 
Q.  In defending Hakim, they're able to run three guys at him: Doornekamp, Smith and Agbai.  Can you talk about being able to put three different guys on him?
 
COACH JIM BOEHEIM:  None of those three guys can guard him.  
 
Q.  You've been playing great defense.  You did again today. 
 
COACH JIM BOEHEIM:  They did a good job on defense.  We got some opportunities, we didn't convert them.  That was really the game.  But, really , if we would have rebounded the ball on the defensive end at all, it wouldn't have been a close game, I don't think.  
 
Q.  Hakim, it seemed like you struggled a little bit out there.  Talk about what happened out there on the floor today. 
 
HAKIM WARRICK:  I think I just got shots that I'm capable of making, and I just didn't go out there and finish.  
 
Q.  Hakim, did you think at all you got fouled at the end with six seconds left? 
 
HAKIM WARRICK:  I don't know.  They didn't call it, so it really doesn't matter, I don't think.  
 
Q.  Gerry, what did you think of their defense?  What were they doing to make it difficult for you guys?  Did they make it difficult? 
 
GERRY MCNAMARA:  I just think we made it difficult on ourselves.  I think we had control of the game, you know, the whole game from pretty much start to finish.  As Coach said, we shot ourselves in the foot.  It's just we've been good in late-game situations.  We made some mistakes late.  They did a good job of making foul shots.  So we just have to do a better job of finishing up games.  
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT