MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2009
Keith Nichol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. You played in the Oklahoma-Texas game or at least saw it and were a part of that atmosphere. How do you think Saturday will compare when you actually get on the field in this rivalry?   
 KEITH NICHOL: I think the intensity will be very similar. Obviously this means a lot more to me since I'm a hometown guy. The green and white playing gold and blue is a big deal around here.   
 I'm really excited to be a part of it, be suited up for it this time. I couldn't travel last year, so I'm excited for this game. I've been waiting a long time to play these guys, and yeah, it's going to be an exciting moment.  
  
  Q. Given the opportunity that you're going to get some opportunity Saturday, what do you think you can bring to the rivalry, bring to this game that's been so defined over the years by single plays to decide a lot of these games?   
 KEITH NICHOL: Well, I think certainly part of my game is just providing a spark maybe when it's needed, and hopefully that's something I bring on Saturday. You know, there's going to be a lot of adversity faced in this one game. We're going to be up and down and certainly it's not going to be a game of just highs and just lows. Hopefully I can provide some energy, some excitement and some confidence to this team. I think if we have all those things, we'll be all right.  
  
  Q. Being an in-state guy yourself, how much influence do you think this has over some high school kids that aren't decided yet as far as recruiting goes? Is it a really big deal for them?  
 KEITH NICHOL: You know, I think a lot of that is just -- even when I was getting recruited, I don't think this game was something, hey, I'm going to go to Michigan State if they win or I'm going to go to Michigan if they win. It probably has more effect on out of state guys just because if you're in state you kind of have in your mind who you like better any ways. You're around the coaches a lot more and you understand programs a little more.   
 So in terms of in-state, probably not a big effect, but obviously a win boosts your confidence in terms of recruiting.   
 This is a big game for our program, and it's going to be an exciting game.   
  
  Q. How would you describe Dantonio's leadership style at a time like this when you're 1-and-3 facing a big game? And what was Sunday's practice like, and how unusual was that?  
 KEITH NICHOL: Well, he's a tremendous coach. He's a guy I'd follow through any battle. I'd jump off a bridge for him if he needed.   
 He's a guy that I trust and respect more than almost any coach I've ever played for. He's a guy I would follow through anything, like I said. What he says goes. He's a tremendous leader. I trust his ability as a coach. He's going to have this team ready, and as players we need to have our fellow teammates ready, too. It's not all just on him.  
  
  Q. People could argue this is a rivalry but a very lopsided one since this program hasn't beaten Michigan in back-to-back seasons in 42 years. You had a little taste of rivalries Oklahoma has. What would it mean to you to be a part of this one and get that monkey off your back if you can win Saturday?  
 KEITH NICHOL: Well, I think any big rivalry win is huge for a program. That's certainly something that would boost our confidence another level. That's just reality. I'm not going to hide around the fact that we're 1-and-3 right now. We need a boost.   
 We will be ready on Saturday. We'll be confident. We'll be prepared. And we'll be intense. I think this team is going to come out firing on all cylinders, and I think if we do that, we'll have a great chance to win. But of course that has to happen first. So we'll see how it goes.   
  
  Q. If we were to open up your closet when you were six or seven years old, would we see a Michigan sweatshirt or Michigan State hat? How did you grow up?  
 KEITH NICHOL: It was green and white all day. My mom graduated from here, so we have a Michigan State flag out in my front yard before I even thought about coming here. It's always been Michigan State. I've never even wavered to the Michigan side of the ball. It's always been green and white. To answer your question, it would be a green hat and a white sweatshirt probably.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible.)  
 KEITH NICHOL: No, I didn't. When I was in high school I always wanted to be like Drew Stanton, that style. But it was more basketball, like when you were playing out there you wanted to be like all those guys. But, no, there's not a quarterback specifically that I pretended to be.  
  
  Q. Along those lines, growing up in low we will, what other fun memories do you have about that rivalry?  
 KEITH NICHOL: Well, I remember, just like my teammates, it's 50/50. They're Michigan State guys and there were Michigan guys, and it was always just talking trash on the practice field or in class. I mean, that was probably the biggest thing I remember is just sitting with them watching games, and that was always fun.   
 And then obviously that carries on through the entire year because you have bragging rights for a whole year. So I think that's probably the biggest thing I remember.  
  
  Q. Do a lot of you in state guys talk to the out of state guys about your memories of the rivalry growing up and how it means a lot to people in this state?  
 KEITH NICHOL: I think even when I was down in Oklahoma, they'd be like what's the Michigan-Michigan State rivalry like. I'd be like, well, it's just like Oklahoma-Oklahoma State or Oklahoma-Texas. It means everything to people in this state.  
 When I talk to people in Ohio -- it's hard to explain, because it is either this side or this side. There's not many people that waver. You can't really -- it's huge. We're not far apart. The schools aren't too far apart. This is an exciting moment for this university and for theirs, also. It's something I think the whole state looks forward to.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT