NHL STANLEY CUP FINAL: SHARKS v PENGUINS
June 6, 2016
Eric Fehr
Tom Kuhnhackl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Tom and Eric.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
ERIC FEHR: Believe it or not, we are trying to score every time we're out there. We want to (indiscernible) and make sure we're having some strong offensive zone time. We want to take the puck to the net, or get it up to the point, try to get some net‑front presence.   
I think it's going to be important for everybody, not just our line, to make it a little bit more difficult for Jones to see the puck.   
   
 Q. Eric, with all the injuries you've dealt with earlier in your career, how important was that year you spent in Finland? Have you acquired enough Finnish to joke with Olli at all?  
ERIC FEHR: That was a huge year for me. I think the lockout probably helped me more than anything, just getting back to playing and feeling healthy again.   
As far as, my Finnish, I think I could count to about four. That was pretty much as far as I got when I was there.   
   
 Q. Eric, the Sharks seemed to be able to use their size in Game3. How do you make any adjustments, if you do?   
ERIC FEHR: I don't think we really need to make too many adjustments. We played against big teams, heavy checking teams in the past. We've found a way around it.   
I think we just need to be a little bit more prepared for it. It just comes down to dueling battles. A couple battles got away from us last game. We didn't make the plays we were capable of making. But I think we'll be fine.   
   
 Q. (No microphone.)  
TOM KUHNHACKL: Yeah, I think our job is (indiscernible) on defense on faceoff against the other team's top line. I think our responsibility is win that faceoff, get the pucks out, make (indiscernible) in the defensive zone and make them work in their own end.   
   
 Q. For either one of you. Maybe start with you, Eric. The fact there's not been a lot of penalties called, is that a good or bad thing?  
ERIC FEHR: For both of us, it's great. We don't want to have to go out there and kill penalties and we're not giving up the power play.   
I think five‑on‑five is fine with our team. We want to play a fast‑paced game, play five‑on‑five. At the same time it's nice to get a couple power plays and get some of our top guys out there, get them some opportunities.   
Whatever happens here at the game, we're fine with.   
   
 Q. For both of you. With Matt Murray, the way he's played so well every time he's been in the net, what have you observed about the way he's handled the few defeats you've had during the course of the playoffs?   
TOM KUHNHACKL: If you look at Matt Murray, every time he's in the net, he's been huge for us. We wouldn't be here if it wasn't for him. He's been huge for us. If we lose a game, we just got to be ready for the next game.   
We always start at zero again. We got to be 100% focused. I think we've done that pretty good so far.   
   
 Q. For either of you. When there aren't that many penalties, do you lose any rhythm?   
ERIC FEHR: To be honest, I think we're in a better rhythm when we're taking less penalties. I feel like we're a little bit more prepared. We have the energy to make sure we're at the right spots at the right times.   
When you take a couple penalties in a row, take a four‑minute or something like that where you really exhaust yourself every time you're on the ice, it makes it a little bit more difficult to make sure you're in the right spots at all times.   
   
 Q. Tom, your first run through something like this, what is your appreciation level for what a marathon it is to make it this far?  
TOM KUHNHACKL: For me, it's just great. I've had a great journey so far. If I look back five months ago when I started with the NHL, I never thought I would be here five months later playing in the Stanley Cup Final. For me it's been almost unbelievable journey. I'm taking it day by day. It's just great to be part of this (indiscernible).   
   
 Q. Tom, you're putting the rest of the rookies to shame with the facial hair.   
TOM KUHNHACKL: I mean, I just started a couple weeks earlier than the other guys. I can't keep up with older guys (indiscernible).   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks, guys.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT