NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: LIGHTNING v PENGUINS
May 23, 2016
Eric Fehr
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Eric, in a situation like this, you're facing an elimination game. Obviously, the younger players have stepped up all season long. How much does it fall on the veterans to really have an impact in an elimination game? 
ERIC FEHR: I think there's a lot of guys that have been here before. For our team, I think we can't change too much. We just have to play with a little more desperation. But you want to come and have a good game plan and just worry about playing hockey.

Q. Eric, how good has Vasilevskiy been in this series? Do you feel like you've had some good opportunities and he's stoned you? What can you do differently against him? 
ERIC FEHR: He's been great. There's four really good goalies in this series, and he's definitely been a difference maker for them. I think we've had a lot of opportunities, especially in the third. 
Last night we had a couple of chances to get a cushion, and he came up big for them. We just have to find a way to be a little bit more effective.

Q. Are you surprised by the number of goals that has been scored in this playoff series so far? 
ERIC FEHR: Yes and no. I think, if you look at the lineups, there's a lot of guys that can put the puck in the net. There's a lot of skill. But it's two teams that have played pretty structured defensively all year. I wasn't quite sure what to expect, but it's been some pretty good hockey.

Q. The word that floats around with this team since January is resilience. What is it about this team that's going to allow them to not only win tomorrow, but down the road to get this thing done? 
ERIC FEHR: I think it's a good group of guys that want to keep playing hockey. We know what we have to do to be better. We come up with a good game plan, and we just -- we do it together. We're a whole team. I think we like to roll four lines, like to use all six "D" and use both goalies. I think we've done a great job of getting everybody involved, and I think that makes our team a real tough team to play against.

Q. What's the process of moving on from a tough loss like that one was? 
ERIC FEHR: I think, win or lose, it's important to put the previous game behind you and to move forward. I think our team's done a great job of that all year. Kind of reenergize, regroup, and formulate a new game plan for the next game, and it's going to be no different for us tomorrow night.

Q. Patric last night basically said you guys are coming back here, and Geno just said the same thing. How confident are you guys that there will be a Game 7? 
ERIC FEHR: We're always confident in our group. We believe in ourselves. We know we have the players in the dressing room to do it. We just have to go out and play. I think one thing we've learned against Tampa Bay is you can't take a second or a minute off against these guys. They're a really quick strike. They capitalize, like a lot of teams haven't in the past. If we can just stay focused for a full 60 minutes, I like our chances.

Q. Eric, with Tampa scoring so much in transition, do you guys need to commit to maybe a slower download cycle game? 
ERIC FEHR: I think we just need to be careful with the puck. I think we still want to make plays. We still have a lot of good players that can create space and create a lot of good offensive opportunities. I think we need to pick our spots a little bit better and be more conscious of how we're handling the puck. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT