OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 25, 2019
Jawun Evans
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How have the past few weeks been?  
JAWUN EVANS: The past few weeks have been pretty good.  You know, just being around the team, being able to just watch them just be in the Playoffs, being able to learn.  It's been a good two weeks for me.   
 Q.  Now that you've had more time with some of the guys, is there anyone -- you said that Ray you expected to help out a lot.  Anyone else that has given you advice?  
JAWUN EVANS: You know, there's really been a lot going on, so I haven't really had the chance just to sit down.  But being here, the guys that took me under their wing, I feel like I knew them for a while now.  So just that alone and everything just made everything so easy.   
 Q.  Was it a fun experience at least suiting up for the team just a few miles away from where you used to play?  
JAWUN EVANS: Oh, yeah, just being back here feels like another home.  It made everything much easier.   
 Q.  Did you get to go up there at all and visit or anything while you've been here?  
JAWUN EVANS: No, I didn't get a chance to, but I'm pretty sure I'll probably stop by there, get down there.   
 Q.  What are your summer plans?  
JAWUN EVANS: Just to get to work, work on my game.  Looking forward just to be back and forth from here and Dallas, just to get better.   
 Q.  What's it like being part of game planning in the Playoffs and helping out, going through the scouts and all that kind of stuff?  Did that provide a little bit of a unique perspective after having gone through that?  
JAWUN EVANS: Oh, yeah, it was definitely good just to do that.  You know, you learn stuff from being involved in that from a defensive perspective and offense, and so it's just a learning experience, so I take it as that.   
 Q.  You spent a little bit of time with multiple teams this year.  Maybe you can point out something that stood out for you about the Thunder organization or something you saw different here in Oklahoma City versus other places you've been?  
JAWUN EVANS: You know, every team has their different ways, but like I said, probably just the way -- all the teams are like family oriented, so there really wasn't much different in that.  From every team, they welcomed me the same way.  That's all.   
 Q.  What are your goals going forward?  
JAWUN EVANS: My goals are just to get better on and off the court, just being more vocally running teams, shooting, things like that, and just doing everything my team needs me to do.  Everything I need.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT