MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ROYALS
October 28, 2014
Jeremy Guthrie
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I'm sure you've fulfilled a boyhood dream pitching in a World Series, but talk about a Game 7 World Series?   What do you remember about them as a kid?   What do you think about going in Game 7? 
JEREMY GUTHRIE:   Well, I think it's a tremendous opportunity for all of us, if we can force it tonight.   We've got obviously a tough task ahead of us with Peavy on the other side going tonight.   So anytime you can get to a Game 7, you realize anything can happen.   I think that's really certainly what we're looking for at this point down 3‑2, is to give ourselves a chance to get into that game that allows basically anything to happen. 
My memories of a Game 7 probably go back to Jack Morris, '91.   I remember that game.   I was 12 years old, so certainly could appreciate the effort that he gave and the magnitude of the game, to be able to pitch like he did and win the World Series.

Q.   You guys are down 3‑2, backs against the wall, but could you just talk about how much nicer it is to be at home being down 3‑2 rather than being on the road? 
JEREMY GUTHRIE:   Yeah, we obviously went to San Francisco and the atmosphere there was tremendous.   It was a great place to play a World Series game.   I think each one of us enjoyed it, and we would have enjoyed it more had we been able to win two or three of those games.   To be back home, though, is where we want to be.   You love to be here in front of your own fans, have their energy to buoy us up and put us over the top, hopefully. 
I think many of the fans have commented to me that they remember 1985 and the same opportunity to come back and have to win two games, so that's what we're faced with.   I think it gives us the opportunity to do something really special here.

Q.   Was there a moment either this year or last year when it hit you that this team, really it could work out here, for the team that it was built to go as far as it has? 
JEREMY GUTHRIE:   Yeah, I think we felt that way going into last season.   We had a really tough stretch in May.   It didn't erase our hopes of making the playoffs last year, but it certainly dampened them and made it very difficult for us.   We had a very strong second half, and I think that was the team that each one of us expected to have throughout the year, was a consistent team that could win ballgames. 
So we left 2013 with a lot of momentum and lot of confidence, and we were able to carry that over into this year and play more consistently.   I don't think we played much better, necessarily, but we just didn't have the big stretch for a long period of time that hurt us. 
So this is something each one of us has believed in for at least two seasons.

Q.   They've talked about potentially bringing Bumgarner back in relief for Game 7.   As a pitcher, to essentially throw in a game on your bullpen day, how difficult would that be?   What would the challenges be?   Do you think you could be the same guy in that situation as you would be starting a game on normal rest? 
JEREMY GUTHRIE:   I've never done it before, but I think the situation certainly puts it in a way that you can probably do stuff that you maybe have never thought about doing before or attempted to do.   So I know if I were in the same position and a team would want to call on me two days afterwards, I'd certainly be able to get up and throw a number of pitches to try to help the team win. 
So if the situation calls for that, I wouldn't expect to see a very different Bumgarner than what we've seen in the past.   I think he'll execute his pitches similarly.   I think he'll have the energy and adrenaline, if he has any lingering soreness or fatigue from two days ago.   Our goal, obviously, will be to put it in a position where they don't call upon him, if we're able to get in that Game 7.

Q.   On a similar note, Ned Yost was talking about how this time of year so many guys are nicked up and bruised and it's a long season.   You find out after some guys probably would have been on the DL had it been regular season.   What is it about this time of year that allows professional athletes to kind of go mind over matter when you're probably in a lot of pain and your body's really tired, but yet you're able to go out and do what you have to do? 
JEREMY GUTHRIE:   I think it's similar to everyday life.   When you see the finish line, competitors and people that have a desire to do well in whatever field they work in, give that little bit‑‑ that last bit of gas that's left in their tank.   So everyone knows here the maximum amount of games we're going to play is two.   With that being said, everyone is in high gear right now, powering through whatever ailments they may suffer from, whether it's fatigue or injury, and pushing towards that. 
You see it in a number of things.   Guys just sprint to the finish line, and I think that's kind of the mark of a competitor and an eventual champion.

Q.   Has there been any conversation about say whether you'd be the last pitcher that would possibly throw in this game or did they say "be ready for anything"?   Or is it possible you could pitch in this game except as the 20th inning? 
JEREMY GUTHRIE:   I haven't been told to be ready today.   I'm operating under the assumption that I'm not available today.   Obviously if you get into the 20th inning and I see the way things are happening, you know, just like one of their pitchers, I would be able to get up and rev the engine and do whatever is necessary.

Q.   Speaking of Bumgarner and you're thinking maybe he'd be able to pitch an inning or two or whatever tomorrow, what kind of urgency does that put on you, knowing the prospect that he could come in and do what he's done?   How does that impact your margin for error? 
JEREMY GUTHRIE:   My margin for error is going to be minimal either way.   My goal is always to put up as many zeros as I can.   That will be my goal again tomorrow. 
Hopefully we can get there.   It's still kind of awkward to talk about tomorrow knowing we have a difficult task today.   But I think our side respects and understands that every one of their pitchers is difficult.   Every one of their pitchers are competitors whether it's Tim Hudson, Bumgarner, the bullpen, Petit, all of these guys have pitched big innings.   They've had tremendous careers, some of them longer than others, and each one of them is going to go out there and be difficult for us to hit. 
So nothing on my end or any of our pitchers' end will change whether he is or is not available.

Q.   I realize you have to win tonight to get to Game 7, but just the fact that they trust you to put the ball in your hand for Game 7, what does that mean to you just in this situation? 
JEREMY GUTHRIE:   Well, I think each one of us would appreciate this opportunity.   I'm no different.   I'm excited for the way the series lines up.   It's not always necessarily who is your best pitcher or who you have the most confidence in, but I think you go with your top guns in games one and two, which is what happens, and then it just so happens the Game 3 starter has that chance or responsibility of pitching Game 7, if we get back around to it. 
I felt very comfortable all season long with the way I've been able to execute pitches.   Had good games, had bad games, but I feel, similar to what I saw in the paper from their pitcher, Madison Bumgarner, that I feel very good right now.   I feel like I'm in as good of shape and in as good position to pitch well, as I've been all season long.   And that's a good place to be, to not have to worry about being fatigued or not have to worry about any lingering soreness.   I feel that whatever I bring to Game 7 will be my best. 
Hopefully it's good enough, but if not, all the preparation, all the work has paid off thus far, and that's what I trust, and that's what each one of those guys in there trusts, what can we do?   What can we control?   Put yourself in a position to be successful and accept the results and be grateful for the opportunity. 
So that's the way it will be tomorrow, if we can force that Game 7.   It's kind of a culmination of preparation, hard work, and opportunity, and each one of us will try to take the best advantage of it as we can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT