CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA VS VIRGINIA
December 27, 2019
Charles Snowden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHARLES SNOWDEN: They do a good job of throwing a lot of things at you, and so I think that's one benefit of playing them in a bowl game is we have more time to kind of get ready for all of that rather than trying to get ready for it in four or five days in a regular week. So I think they do a lot of things really well. I'm excited.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
CHARLES SNOWDEN: Yeah, definitely. I mean, on paper it's always easier to say, yeah, kind of we know they're going to attack that one guy, stop that one guy. Yeah, exactly, that guy is the dude so it's kind of harder to stop them. But I always think it's kind of exciting facing someone like that, and two, it's kind of easier to game plan around that one person and then we know what they're going to do and we'll have to adjust once the game starts.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
CHARLES SNOWDEN: We're trying to just play Virginia football, so get after the quarterback. Everyone has got to do their 1/11th. Don't try to do too much. Just because it's a big stage, don't try to be the star. Just make plays within your job and execute to the best of your ability.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible)?  
CHARLES SNOWDEN: Yeah, our defensive line coach, Coach So'oto, that's kind of one thing. We always have a coach come speak to us before one of the games, and before one of the games, he came up and said just do your 1/11th, so that's something that we've been harping on all season.   
 Q.  Do you guys feel at all like (indiscernible).  
CHARLES SNOWDEN: Yeah, definitely, but we understand the history Virginia has kind of had. We were not a big name in college sports. So we hear a lot of what people say. Definitely not in college basketball, but in college football. I mean, we've only had one 10-win season in our school's history. I mean, a lot of us just kind of laughed it off. If I had heard the name Virginia a couple years ago I'd have probably had the same reaction. So we're going to go out there and prove that it's a new team and a new era.   
 Q.  Being part of that group that's trying to help turn it around --  
CHARLES SNOWDEN: Yeah, that's one of the coolest things in the world to me. Especially me, I was coming out of high school, only had one scholarship offer and it was Virginia. So for them to believe in me and then now to kind of help turn this all around, be part of something new, and I believe in Coach Mendenhall and everything he's trying to establish. There will be longevity to the change, as well. So to be able to look back and say I was one of the people that started that, I think that's one of the coolest things in the world.   
 Q.  The Clemson game kind of got away from you. How did you guys get past that?  
CHARLES SNOWDEN: Yeah, got to sit down and watch the tape, which obviously is not easy, but had to learn from it. Part of it was an Xs and Os thing and another part of it was just pride, knowing that's not who we are as a team, that's not what we want to put on film, that's not how we want to end our season. So we know we're a lot better than that. So to go out and compete on stage against a really good team, again, it's just something we're looking forward to to get that Clemson taste out of our mouth.   
 Q.  How big of a challenge is Bryce?  
CHARLES SNOWDEN: Yeah, Bryce, he can just -- whenever any kind of play breaks down, there's no one open, someone misses a block, Bryce just has that X factor where he can change a play with just one move. If someone doesn't do their 1/11th, Bryce can kind of make up for that. He can throw it, he can run it, and he's also just a great leader. Dudes generally want to play for him, play with him. Everyone believes in him, everyone gets along with him. So I think that's just as big as kind of who he is as a player is who he is as a person, his intangibles, as well.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  
CHARLES SNOWDEN: I think we just send a lot of guys. We kind of just don't send edge rushers on our D-line. We do a lot of shaking and moving. You never know who's coming on any given play. We have a lot of athletic guys who can be the block and get to the quarterback. Even if we're not sacking the quarterback, we're trying to get in his face, hitting him after the throw, getting our hands up and knocking balls down. We have good DBs on the back end that allow us to send a little bit more pressure, too.   
 Q.  How important is it going to be to make that happen in this game?  
CHARLES SNOWDEN: Yeah, it's going to be really important. Obviously, they have a great passing attack so the best way to affect that is with negative plays. So getting after the quarterback, making him uncomfortable, hitting him as much as we can, and he's a big guy, so when you get there, really getting him down, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT