ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2018
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








K. KHACHANOV/L. Pouille
6-3, 7-5, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. How did you manage with the rain delay and coming back?  What went through your mind today?
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, it's not really easy, especially when you're being led.  I think it's the same for both players.  I wasn't more at a disadvantage than my opponent, but that's part of the game when you're playing at the French Open.  You know that a game can be suspended and you have to come the next day.
Q. There are losses that make you want to change something more than other things.  What happens?  Are you deciding not to play anymore on clay, or it's the end of a stage?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, well, it's a bit complicated.  Clearly this has put an end to a very good period for me on clay, and then I will have to discuss with Manu, Tommy, and all of the team to see what has to change and what has to be improved.
But offhand now, it's very hard to give you an exact answer and a constructive one.
Q. What hurts most, to have to leave after the third round or not to have played your usual tennis in this match?
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, obviously to have to leave and to be defeated, but I was playing a very aggressive opponent, and I wasn't able to really play my tennis.  Obviously I wasn't able to finish the set yesterday, and it was a shame, because I was doing a bit better.
I think I lost opportunities and it's really a shame that I did.  But my opponent could risk more, and he could do a few more errors.
Q. We have been following matches the other day.  Was it difficult today, the fact... (Off microphone.)
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, no, physically there were no problems.  After the last set against Norrie, it wasn't a question of physical shape; it's rather mental.  I played late, I played long matches, and it's a shame that I wasn't able to conclude over one day a single match.
But that's part of the game.
Q. I felt that yesterday you were a bit annoyed after a sequence of dropshots.  Is this a tactic that you want to change?
LUCAS POUILLE: No, it wasn't a real game plan.  And during the game, you can be a bit more tense and rush things and do the wrong choices.
Sometimes it succeeded but other times not.  It wasn't an easy game plan.
Q. You really prepared for a long time on clay courts.  Do you understand what went wrong?  Was it too much pressure at this time of the year, or was it something specific?
LUCAS POUILLE: I think I'm going to give you the same answer.  Sorry about that.  Offhand now, I wouldn't be able to give you an accurate answer.  We'll have to discuss it.
I think there were times at which I didn't have the right attitude, the usual attitude.  I was annoyed and I made mistakes.  I did the wrong choices.  Just the opposite of what I usually do, and this obviously didn't help me.
But I can't put into question the fact that I decided to train as best possible for the clay courts to face the season, and if I had to do it again, I'd do it.
Q. Beyond this clay season, in the large tournaments and since the quarterfinals against Rafa at the US Open, and the Grand Slams, what do you feel is most difficult:  To have to face a status of being No. 1 in France or...
LUCAS POUILLE: I don't think that makes any difference over two years, and the exact reason, I don't really know.  I think that I'm putting a lot of pressure, and it's hard for me to actually unfold my game.
But I don't have a true explanation.
Q. So there is no explanation?  There is no switch to turn on specifically in your preparation, or your choice to change this in the coming months for things to go differently?
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, honestly, about an hour ago I lost, so all these questions I can't answer because I haven't really discussed it.  I'll have to discuss it with my team.
So to give you an answer today isn't possible.  If you have to turn on a switch for me to start lining up wins rather than losses, I think that I'll have to think about it over a few weeks.  But what I can tell you is we are going to take the time to reflect on it and do the best for things to be as best as possible in the coming weeks and months.
Q. Before Wimbledon, what's your program?  Are there going to be changes?  Are you going to be traveling a lot?
LUCAS POUILLE: I was going to play Stuttgart, Halle, and the week before Wimbledon I will be in London to train.
Q. On the courts, some players have considered that it was more slippery than other years.  Can you give us your opinion?  Did you feel a difference?
LUCAS POUILLE: I think it's also hotter than other years.  So when the weather is good, the clay is a bit warmer and drier.  Therefore, it's slippery.
But I didn't really slip that much, so I didn't have that feeling.
Q. Last year after the French Open you were defeated just about the same time, and you were able to rebound at Stuttgart.  Do you think that the fact that you have a lot of points to lose is going to be adding pressure?
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, if I lose 250 points, I guess I'll end up 20th or 21st, and there's not that much difference and it's not going to change my life to be 17th or 20th.  So these points are not going to put that much pressure.
I'm going to have to bounce back because the next great objective for me is Wimbledon, and for me to win a lot of matches both there, in Stuttgart, and in Halle, and regain confidence.  It's not the fact that I have to defend those 250 points that I have lost.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT