ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2018
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. POUILLE/D. Medvedev
6-2, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. For a first match, are you satisfied?
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, it's a good beginning.  It's the one I wanted with a very good match from the beginning, a tight game.  But I'm very happy with my performance today.
Q. Did you need to feel reassured with this match after what happened the past few weeks since you hadn't had the results you were expecting?  Was this a true objective, this match, to know where you were at?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yes.  Well, the beginning of a tournament is always complicated, and it's reassuring when you have a problem of confidence to realize that you were playing well during training and you could apply the game today.
Q. So this is the beginning of the French Open.  It's your seventh year that you're playing.  How did you manage the stress?
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, I tried to focus on very simple things.  I tried to have a sound and sturdy game without trying any wild things, play an effective tennis without trying to shine.  I realize that it worked.  I'm very happy with the way I managed to cope with my emotions.
Q. You managed that you had a very good impression in your trainings.  Were you able to find those impressions you felt?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yes, I was at most of the different stages of the game.  So I managed to replicate what I did during my training from the very outset of the match.
So it was very positive.
Q. Tell us about the way you relate to the audience.  Not saying that you have a problem with the audience.  But since the end of the Davis Cup, apparently there's something that's going on with you.
LUCAS POUILLE: Yes, it's really wonderful to experience and share emotions with the public.  They have always been amazing with me and always backed me and supported me from the beginning to the end.
And therefore, it's a true delight to come back to France and play, and even more on the Chatrier court.
Q. Gaël was mentioning the magic in Roland Garros.  He had a bit of bad time in the past few weeks.  And when he came here, he realizes that everything is different, and what happened before just doesn't count.  The French Open allows him to play better.
LUCAS POUILLE: I don't know whether what you have done before, it doesn't disappear, but here the atmosphere is really different, and so you have to reset everything.
It can help you to better play and give more energy to your game, and it makes you play your best tennis.  So in a way I agree with him.
Q. Can you say that this is the very beginning?  I know that it started in Australia, but is it really the beginning of a collaboration with Tommy and how does this cooperation help you?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yes, actually, we're really working together this week, and we will continue on grass and for the rest of the year.
Now, what does it bring me?  I don't know.  I think that he's gone through great emotions, ups and downs, beginnings of Grand Slams.  He explains how to manage emotions the beginning of a match, so he has a lot to contribute, and obviously playing, as well.
So I hope that it's going to bear its fruits.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT