DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 28, 2018
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
L. POUILLE/K. Khachanov   
6-4, 3-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How strange is it to play the same player twice in four days?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, I knew it will be a tough one.  In final in Marseille, he won just three points more than me.  I knew it was very close.  I had to play some good tennis.   
We were both I think a little bit tired.  So, no, I'm just very happy that I get my revenge today.   
 Q.  What do you think you did better today than last time?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, I think in the third set, I put more return in the court and I was a bit more opportunist than him.  I think that made the difference.   
 Q.  You're stringing together quite a few wins in a row this month.  How does it feel for you?  Is there extra confidence coming out of this?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, of course.  As long as you win, you get some confidence.  It's better this way.  I prefer to win a lot of matches, play a lot, than playing once a week.  It's good.   
I'm starting to feel better and better here.  Hopefully tomorrow I can be 100%.  But I know it's going to be difficult.   
No, I'm very happy with this month of February so far.   
 Q.  You did speak about Davis Cup in your last press conference.  Have you had a chance to speak to your teammates?  What is the general mood with the French players?  
LUCAS POUILLE: I think they think the same as me, like I think a lot of players.  I did not say it was not good for tennis, I just say it's not good for Davis Cup.  It's a particular competition.  I think we just need to find another way to make it better.   
I know it's not the perfect way right now, but I definitely don't think it's going to be good with what they propose.   
 Q.  You like the home and away, is that what you like best about the competition as it is now?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah.  As it is now, you can play home or you can play in the other country.  I mean, if we make the final France-Belgium last year in Singapore, there would have been maybe 4,000 people.  In France it was 27,000.  It's definitely different.   
Roger and Rafa are not going to play forever.  We don't have to think about only them, like what do we need to do for them to play.  They're not going to stay here for the next 15 years.  I'm not sure this is the right way to do.   
 Q.  Who inspired you to play professional tennis?  
LUCAS POUILLE: A few players.  My idol was Roger Federer when I was younger.  Lleyton Hewitt.  On the French side, I really love Sebastien Grosjean, as well.   
 Q.  Which stroke did you find the hardest to master?  
LUCAS POUILLE: I think at the beginning, the serve.  You know, it's overhead, so it's really difficult to find the right move.   
 Q.  If you could have any coach, who would it be?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Mine, at the moment (smiling).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT