ROLAND GARROS
June 2, 2017
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RAMOS-VINOLAS/L. Pouille   
6-2, 3-6, 5-7, 6-2, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  You must be hugely disappointed tonight, but did you find out what was wrong with your ankle?  
LUCAS POUILLE: No.  It was very scary, because it twisted really hard.  But then after a couple of minutes the pain went away, so there is no issue there.   
 Q.  Did you feel physically diminished during this match?  Do you think that's why you lost?  
LUCAS POUILLE: No, not really.  Towards the end, yes, I was tired.  I think it's very much linked to the emotional tension, and it was very difficult to find the levels of energy I had in other matches.   
 Q.  In the fifth set, weren't you a little bit embarrassed?  You weren't serving so hard.  Between the fourth and fifth when you got medical assistance.  
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, there was a little pain in the fifth set.  I think it was just cramps.  I think it was the first time in my life I have ever had a cramp during a match, so I don't really see any other explanation apart from the fact that I was really tense.  I have played longer matches.  I have done five-set matches.  I played against Rafa after two five-set matches that were over two hours.  No physical problem.   
I think the main explanation is that the tension was very difficult to handle, and my whole body kind of locked up.   
 Q.  The conditions were a little bit weird on court.  There was wind, a couple of raindrops.  
LUCAS POUILLE: The two opponents share the same conditions.  I'm sure he suffered from it, too.  It was the same for both of us.   
 Q.  Did that add any additional stress or anything?  
LUCAS POUILLE: No.  The stress is nothing to do with the weather.  We knew we weren't going to get the weather as in previous days, but there were no interruptions, which I thought was pretty cool.   
There were a couple of raindrops, but that's it.   
 Q.  The stress you're talking to, did it come early on in the match, or did it get worse?  
LUCAS POUILLE: No.  From the start you want to play well, you know.  You put yourself under a lot of pressure.  It creates a lot of tension, and I think I was not successful in managing the tension the way I should have and finish my match at 100% of my capacity.   
 Q.  Something you talked about already after Julien, it sounds like that's your real frustration, the fact that you can't manage things as you dreamed of, or did it fall upon you all of a sudden?  
LUCAS POUILLE: No, I knew I was going to be very tense.  When you're playing here, when you're French, I wanted to do my best.  I wanted to go as far as possible.   
When I started getting a few cramps early in the third set, it's something I wasn't really expecting.  It's really the first time I actually feel a cramp during a match.  It's really unpleasant.  I think with Manu and Pascal and the physical therapist we are going to discuss that if they can see something.  For me I think it was just stress.   
 Q.  This is very different, but did you see what happened to Goffin today?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Yes, I did see.  I just got back to the locker room after warming up.  I haven't had any news, because I think he went for medical exams and after the match I haven't had time to try and find out how he is, but I definitely hope it's not too serious and that he can recover quickly.   
It's always very bad to finish like that, especially since he's probably playing his very best tennis at the moment.   
 Q.  I was talking to your coach yesterday, and all he was talking about is emotion.  Had you prepared for this?  Was it unexpected?  When you say it's the only explanation, your stress, did it come all of a sudden?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Even if you prepare for it, there is no magic wand to get rid of the tension.  You can't just put it aside, brush it aside.  There is the audience, and there is pressure from the audience, a lot of noise, the end of the third set was very tough.   
All of that just builds up, the tension, the stress.  You can prepare as much as you want, but sometimes the stress is overwhelming.  So, yes, I guess I am going to have to work a bit on that.  I knew there was going to be tension.  It's not because you know that you can manage it.   
 Q.  It doesn't really help to know, does it?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Of course it does.  It's always better when you're aware of stuff.  But even when you do know, it's just difficult to control.   
 Q.  David Goffin was injured on Suzanne Lenglen.  Someone was saying that the tarp is in the wrong place.  What do you think?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, well, you're going to have to push back the wall in the end.  I made a move and my foot almost reached the back wall.   
If you bump into the umpire in the corner, you're going to say, yeah, the umpire is too close.  I saw the pictures of Thierry, and it's a stroke of bad luck.  They didn't bring the tarp any closer than it usually is.  If there is no tarp and if it rains and if the court is unusable for several hours, I don't think that's a good idea, either.  I think it was just a stroke of bad luck.  Stuff happens.   
 Q.  What's next on your schedule?  Where were you going to try to recuperate?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, I'll need to go beyond the disappointment, the sadness, rest a bit, talk about the match with my staff, and then turn the page, do something else, get ready, get back to training, and try to be in top form for the grass season.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT