ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2017
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. POUILLE/T. Bellucci
7-6, 6-1, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. The first set was probably complicated and then it was easy for you.  Now you probably have the feeling that now you've started the tournament.
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, yeah.  Yeah, well, I think I started the tournament with the first match even though the first match was more complicated, my level of game was lower.  He started off really well, level of intensity he was hitting the ball, very few errors.
For me, except for this break, I had a break point during the first game, during the second game, I knew I had opportunities to seize.  I was always there, present on the court up to 5-3, and that's when I broke him back.  That was a good game for me.
Afterwards, it was really close till the end of the first, and then I served three set points, and it was a very important tiebreak for me.  Then when I succeeded winning the first set, I was very much into the match.  At the beginning of the second set I broke him very quickly, and this put pressure on him.  I hit him back at the head, if I can say, and that's when I took control.
Q. Your next opponent is Ramos-Vinolas.  You played against him Masters 1000 Monte-Carlo.  What would you say about the third round?
LUCAS POUILLE: For the time being, I didn't really think about this.  I have just finished my match 30 minutes ago.  I will do what I have done today, that is, before the match.  It's more or less the same style.  He loves his forehand, his trajectories have balls that go really high, and he's really good player on clay.  I will be quite aggressive, try and hit the balls just after the bounce, if I can, and the match will be really very difficult.  It might be a long match, but I have to be ready for that.
Q. You're qualified for the very first time for the third round at Roland Garros.  What does this represent for you, this third round, going through to the third round?
LUCAS POUILLE: Honestly, I can't say I'm happy or satisfied to have reached third round.  Of course it's an important step to go through, if I want to go deep.  You have of course to go through the third round.  I want to go a lot deeper than that.  I'm not going to be satisfied with round No. 3.  I'll try and continue and take each match as it comes.
Q. Ramos-Vinolas and Bellucci, both lefties, and they lift their balls from the baseline.  Would you say there is any difference between both players?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, they are more or less the same in a certain way but they have their own differences.  Ramos moves in more on the court.  He's more of a defender.  His trajectory has rounder balls in the air, and he's not as much a hitter as Bellucci, but maybe he makes fewer mistakes.
Apart from that, I think in terms of the game plan, I'll have to do more or less the same game plan.  I'll have to push him back with my forehand and hit the big winners with my forehand when I can and be as precise as I can.  But in any case, I will know that here again it's going to be a very tough match.
Q. During the first round against Benneteau, there were moments when you were not playing well.  Yet you decided to hang on.  Whereas here with Bellucci to start the match, he was really good and strong, and you finally won the first set.  Would you say that a combat, a fight, is one of your qualities, that is, you always hang on?  You're always there?  Is that one of your qualities?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, if I don't hang on after eight games, what's the point?  I'll never go deep in this type of tournament.  You always have to be a fighter.  It was the first set.  He was playing really well.  I had a number of occasions.  He broke me.  Even then I was playing well, I was feeling good physically, I was ready to play long.
But fighting on the court and not to give up is, yeah, one of my qualities, one of my skills.
Q. You were saying you hit him back on the head after the first set and when you broke him very quickly, is that the only reason why during the other two sets you had such a score?  Or would you say that you increased your level of game, level of play?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah.  I hit him in the back of the head, if I can say.  That's when there was a big difference between his level, you know, compared to the beginning when he had a lot of intensity.  And then when his intensity decreased, that's when I felt a bit more comfortable, I was at ease, relaxed, I was hitting even bigger winners, and this is why the gap increased.
Q. What about your physical condition?  After Rome you practiced for one full week.  Now, would you say that physically you can play four hours, five hours?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, physically I really feel good.  We probably played today a bit more than two hours.  I was really feeling good.  I was moving quickly.  I had lots of energy moving fast.  I can play long matches, I think.
Q. What about enjoying the match?  Maybe it's the first time you feel so comfortable when you play at Roland Garros?  Maybe that's the match.  This is the match.  First time for you that really you can play your best tennis here at the French Open?
LUCAS POUILLE: Probably one of my best matches here, that's true.  And I really adore center court.  I played once on center court, before this edition.  I was defeated by Gilles.  And now I know where I am on the courts, and the crowd is with me.  It's always strong emotions, gives me lots of energy.  I do hope I'll continue this way, and I'll still increase my level of game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT