MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 22, 2017
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RAMOS-VINOLAS/L. Pouille   
6-3, 5-7, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel right now?  Can you explain what happened in the third set?  Apparently you felt some pain.  
LUCAS POUILLE: I feel a little disappointed, of course.  He played a very good match.  He's been playing well since the beginning of the tournament.   
As I said, even on paper he had a lower ranking, he's still a very good player.  He's in good shape right now.   
It was very difficult to play him.  In the beginning of the third set, I hurt my back a little bit.  Nothing serious.  He was playing more intensely, and a lot better.  It was more difficult for me.   
 Q.  About your tactics.  Did he give you trouble with his deep shots, for example?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Yes, he was playing very deep.  The quality of his shots was very high, and it was difficult to play him.   
The only thing I can say is that he played extremely well today, and he really deserves this victory.   
 Q.  Do you have regrets for the third set?  You had difficulty starting the set off.  
LUCAS POUILLE: Yes, it's a pity I was broken in my first service game.  After that he was able to hit harder, which gave me trouble.  As I said, he was better than I was today.   
 Q.  Of course you are disappointed right now.  Don't you believe this was a very positive tournament for you?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Of course.  It's the first tournament on clay for me.  It's positive to have been able to play five matches here.  What I've been doing on the court since the beginning is quite encouraging for the future.  I want to keep going that way.   
I'm going to Budapest now to get prepared.  I will try to continue on this track and try to play a good tournament over there.   
 Q.  What can you say about your serve this week?  Normally it's a good weapon of yours.  It didn't go so well this week.  
LUCAS POUILLE: I wish I would have an answer.  I didn't serve very well during the whole tournament.  Unfortunately that's just the way it is.   
I talked with Manu about it, whether there was a technical problem.  We are going to work on it as soon as we'll be back practicing again.   
Sometimes there are some shots that don't feel well.  I can't say it's part of tennis.  Anyway, it happens often.  I will practice my serve and I will try to solve the problem so that I will be able to serve better next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT