MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 21, 2017
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. POUILLE/P. Cuevas
6-0, 3-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. It was a strange match.  You were dominating the first set.  What happened in the second set?  Did you have a letdown?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yes, I started well, hitting hard, not doing much, but being aggressive.  I returned several times straight ahead, and he was surprised.
But in the second set I had a letdown in my first service game.  At 3-0 suddenly I felt the tension, and it was difficult to come back in that set.
In the third set, it was very tight for both of us.  He was able to break back, be up 5-4.  After that, I was able to make no mistakes.  I played well until the end.  I was solid.
Q. After winning a set 6-Love, did you lose your concentration?
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, I'll try not to if it happens again.  I believe I should have gone out of the court like he did after the first set because there was not a lot of pace in the first set.  I had to wait for him to come back.
I had that moment when I was waiting.  I had difficulties in coming back into the match.  I have to think about that next time.
After 6-Love, if the player decides to go out, I will go out, too, and come back at the same time as he will.  I won't have to wait.
After the first set, the tennis level dropped.  I am very happy that I was able to win it because I was mentally tough.
Q. It was a mental battle at the end, right?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yes.  I believed I could win till the end.  Even when I was down, I believed I still could turn it around.  That made the difference.
I didn't miss.  Even at 5-All, I saved a breakpoint.  That was a tough game.  I was thinking, He's like me, I feel the tension, but he feels the tension, too.
I was very happy I remained solid.
Q. Is the lesson from the match, that when you were both tense, you take more risks and are able to move forward?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yes, I was trying to move forward still.  This is the way I can win my matches.  If I stay back, put the ball into the court, I will not win.
I was feeling he was getting nervous.  I knew that if I was able to sustain the rally for a while, he would miss.
Also, when I'm very focused on my game, my level is a lot higher.  But as soon as I start thinking about what will happen, I don't play as well.  I don't hit as hard.
This match taught me many lessons.  It's going to be important also for tomorrow.
Q. Talking about tomorrow, you are going to play Ramos-Vinolas.  He's like you, he never gives up.  What will be the key to the match?
LUCAS POUILLE: Although he's a lefty, he plays differently from Pablo.  He's hitting hard.  He doesn't play fast.  He doesn't like to be under pressure.
What I did in the first set today, I will also have to do tomorrow to make it difficult for him.  I must not let him dictate from the baseline.  I have to be the one dictating the points.
Q. You're playing Ramos tomorrow.  You're not playing Nadal or Murray, those guys.  Are you thinking about maybe making the final?
LUCAS POUILLE: If I say I'm not thinking about it at all, I would be lying.  It is human.  The draw has become completely open with the seeded players having lost.  It's an opportunity for me, but also for him.
Of course, it's a favorable position to be in the semifinal here now.  Of course, than by it's nicer, but it's better to play Ramos than Wawrinka.  Murray or Wawrinka, when they get to the stage of the semis, they play really well.
Now, Ramos has played well and beaten very good players to reach this stage.  It's going to be a very tough match.
Q. Can you compare Rome last year and here now?
LUCAS POUILLE: The period is totally different because Rome was a year ago.  Now I'm a different player.  I improved a lot technically, physically.  Last year things had gone a bit too fast.  I played well in Miami, a final in Bucharest.  I played pretty well in Madrid.  In Rome, I was a lucky loser and made it to the semifinal.  I was playing to qualify for the final against Murray.
Here it's different.  I will play tomorrow, being the favorite, which is totally different.  I will prepare the best I can to be able to play my first final.
Q. What did you improve most in your game?
LUCAS POUILLE: There's not anything in particular.  I'm serving better, though I didn't do that this week.  I am more solid, a lot more than before.  I don't miss the shots where you only need to put the ball in.  It gives me more opportunities.  Also physically I'm a lot fitter.  I'm able to run down a lot more balls.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT