U.S. OPEN
September 6, 2016
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MONFILS/L. Pouille   
6-4, 6-3, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously disappointing result, but it's been a great run for you.  Obviously you came in off those five-setters and the rough one against Rafa.  Talk about how that contributed to some fatigue, if that was the case.  Talk about the match.  
LUCAS POUILLE: Of course I was a bit tired today.  I played four matches, one in four sets, and then all three in five.   
So, yeah, it would have been better if I played a bit less time on court.  It's okay.  I did my best today.  Gaël was playing very good.  He's physically very fit.  He's moving so well.  And I think, as I said after Nadal's match, he's in very good form.   
Yeah, I think he was better than me today.   
 Q.  What are the takeaways from the tournament?  Obviously the win against Rafa, the hard-fought battles, but that one in particular?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, the one against Rafa, of course.  It's the best win of my career so far.   
It's a lot of confidence.  Even if I lose today, I will leave New York with a lot of confidence for the rest of the year and the next season.  Now I know I can be in quarterfinal again and maybe more.   
Yeah, give me power to work harder and to be, yeah, next time in quarter.  I want to be stronger physically and, yeah, to be more fresh.   
 Q.  Here and Wimbledon, are you at a point now where you have higher expectations coming into Grand Slams?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, of course.  Now the next one gonna be in Australia.  It's going to be a new year.   
But I won't go there to win only one match.  I want to do second week and more.  That's gonna be my goal next year.   
 Q.  How much did it bother you that several times you were at the net, seemingly good position to win the point, and he was able to lob you, get to a tough ball and then lob you?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Ah, a lot.  He's moving -- as I say, he's moving so well.  When you come to the net he always push you to the limit.  He always put one more ball in the court.   
So if you want to make a winner you have to make the perfect shot.  Maybe I was a little bit tired.  I was not so close to the net or I was not fast enough to come.   
So, yeah, gave him a lot of space to pass me.  Yeah, it was difficult.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT