ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2016
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. MARTIN/L. Pouille   
6-3, 7-5, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  What happened during this match?  It was quite a surprise.  At one point you were not able to turn things around.  Was it your opponent who surprised you?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, he played a great match.  I haven't seen him play like that very often.  It was very difficult for me.   
I'll be very honest.  I'm very disappointed.  I was unable to play the match I wanted.  I just couldn't really let go like in previous matches.  I was very nervous.  There was a lot of tension, and at the end of the day, it's more than average -- it's an average match.  Mentally, I wasn't as good as I have been in the past.   
I did what I could.  In the second set I came pretty close.  There was one small mistake by the umpire.  You know, there could have been a break at 5-3 and then maybe have a set all.  It didn't happen.  But even if I had won the second set, I think it would still have been a very long journey to winning the match.   
He was able to play well.  He was very good and I wasn't.   
 Q.  You mentioned the mistake made by the umpire.  It came late.  And then the umpire changed her mind.  Were you able to get over it?  
LUCAS POUILLE: No, I was not.  I should have.  You know, it's my mistake.  I did a backhand.  It was in line.  She said it was a fault.  You know, it's very frustrating.  It was in.  I should have moved on to the next point, and I should have continued to play the way I had been playing for three or four games.   
You know, it's the kind of mistake I had not made in a long time.  That's really illustrated.  There was too much pressure.  I had too much pressure, and I just wasn't able to deliver my usual game.   
 Q.  You said you were not able to be in the match mentally.  Could you develop?  
LUCAS POUILLE: I prepared.  I prepared well, including mentally, but once I was on the court, I don't know if you saw the match, not a single ball went where I wanted it to go.  I just wasn't precise enough.  I made a lot of mistakes, mistakes I normally don't make.   
Yeah, I think I was the favorite.  I never had such a status.  I found it very difficult to manage.  I had a very difficult match against Julien, a match in which I won.  The fourth set was very difficult.  Maybe that made me a bit tired.  And playing again today was maybe also for that reason quite difficult.  But I think I could have done better, and it's very frustrating.   
 Q.  On this match, do you think you were more nervous than in the first round?  
LUCAS POUILLE: I think so.  I think so.  I was very nervous the first round.  Nobody noticed it.  Today people did.  And it makes a big difference.  When I show no emotion, when I can channel my emotions, I'm much better.  My play is much better.  Especially important points.   
Today I just couldn't do it, and then the umpire mistake, you know, it was in my mind four, five games after.   
It's a mistake.  It proves that being mentally stable is very challenging, and I need to -- I know I need to work harder on this.  If I really want to reach my top level before my maximum and accomplish great things, I have to change that and play the way I play when I play my best all the time.   
 Q.  You played very well over the past weeks, and you were able to build confidence.  That helped you, right?  
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, yeah.  I was confident.  You know what?  I'm still confident.  This morning when I warmed up, I was very confident, and I'm sure that when I play tomorrow I'll be very confident, too.  It's really the match.  I knew there was going to be more agitation this year for me here at Roland Garros.  People know me.  I know myself.   
When I talk with Manu and Pascal, sometimes it's important to just think about myself, just be selfish.  Sometimes I think too much about my family, my relatives, if I lose they will be disappointed.  One of the things I need to learn is be a bit more selfish, focus on myself.   
Self-confidence, as I said, will still be there.  I think the big challenge today, the big difficulty I had, was the level of stress, managing the tension.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT