INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 14, 2016
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/L. Pouille
6-2, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Not the greatest weather to play your first Masters 1000 semifinal, I guess.  How much do you think the weather impacted on your play and on your mind, as well?
LUCAS POUILLE: I don't know if it's impact or not.  I mean, it's the same for both players.  Yeah, we need to wait.  We need to wait a lot, but yeah.  The only thing I can say, it's for both players.  Yeah, not easy.  But that's it.
Q. Your first Masters semifinal.  Did it feel different?  A big occasion.
LUCAS POUILLE: No.  Honestly I started pretty well.  Andy is a great player.  He's returning all your serves.  So if you don't have a great percentage of first serve, then it's very tough.  He's very offensive, puts pressure on your serves.
Yeah, I did not make that the best match of my life, but I think today he was, yeah, he was much better.
Q. How much pressure does his style of game put you under?  You said making all those returns.  No free points?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, you never have free points except when he's like 40-Love or he's playing maybe sometimes he mishit a shot, but it's not offense.
Yeah, on the second serve he's like two meters in the court and it's very tough on the serve.
Q. Now that it's finished, how can you describe this particular week for you here in Rome?
LUCAS POUILLE: Ah.  How can I describe?  Up and down.  Down first.  Yeah.  First, lucky loser, then won two good matches.  Then was ready to play and one of the player pulled out.
Yeah, I think it's a positive week for me.  Now it's time to take some rest.  It's part of the job.  I have been playing a lot for the last two months, so I'm a bit, yeah, a bit tired.  So, yeah, take some rest and prepare for the French Open.
Q. I guess many more French people will know about you now because of what you achieved this week.  Have you thought about what it might be like at Roland Garros now, and your ranking obviously means you'll be...
LUCAS POUILLE: Not yet.  The only thing I'm thinking now is take some rest and going to, yeah, have some drink with friends, dinner and, yeah, enjoy two days off.  Then I think for sure I will get ready.  And I will feel a bit more pressure, but for the moment, no.
Q. You said that you have been working with Yannick Noah, as well, during the last few months.  Have you heard from him during this week?  Do you plan on hearing from him during the preparation...
LUCAS POUILLE: Not for the last few months.  For the last -- yeah, we started three or four, yeah, three months before the French Open started last year, approximately.  And since he's the captain of the Davis Cup, we're not -- I won't say we are not working together anymore, but it's not the same.
So no.  This week I haven't talked to him.  I talked to him like one month ago.  I wanted to meet him, so we had dinner and then we spoke.  But, no, not this week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT