MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 15, 2015
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/L. Pouille
  6‑2, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   What stopped you from playing your game?   Was it him or was it you not feeling good today?   
LUCAS POUILLE:   I don't know if it's me who didn't play well.   But his balls are different from any other player.   They have this spin, plus they bounce a lot higher.   
He's a lefty, and I'm not used to that.   I couldn't find a lefty to practice with this morning.   But this is not an excuse.   He was able to take advantage of my weaknesses.   I was never able to really get into the match.   
He was very solid and he played better and better as the match went on.   
   
 Q.   At the start it seemed more balanced.   What changed after that?   
LUCAS POUILLE:   I don't know.   Maybe I played with less intensity and he was able to go ahead in the score.   He was able to relax.   I found him a bit tense in the beginning.   Once he relaxed, he made me step back.   Maybe I became more passive.   If I want to play well, I need to be aggressive.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel after this match?   Do you feel that it's something left unfinished?  
LUCAS POUILLE:   Well, it is frustrating, yes.   If I had been able to play a little bit better, it could have been a tighter match.   
   
 Q.   Can you describe more precisely how different his balls are compared to other players.   When you're on the other side of the net, how does it feel?  
LUCAS POUILLE:   Well, they are a lot of heavier.   Mainly they bounce a lot higher.   Today was not a very hot day.   Maybe also it was a bit slower.   But what he tries to do is to make the ball bounce high on your backhand so he can get you out of the court and play his forehand.   He's very good at that.   
I could control his shots more or less, but it was very difficult to hit the ball early, as you have to do on clay.   Even if it seems to be short, it still bounces very high, so it's strange.   
Maybe if I had dared and tried more things, I could have done better.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT