MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 14, 2015
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 L. POUILLE/D. Thiem
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   How tall are you?   In the media guide they say you are 1 meter 85.   
LUCAS POUILLE:   1 meter 86.   
   
 Q.   You beat Fognini a few months ago.   
LUCAS POUILLE:   Five months ago.   
   
 Q.   What do you remember of him and that match?   Also today four times you were broken.   
LUCAS POUILLE:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   That against Nadal can be a problem.   Is it normal that you lose a lot of times your serve or it's an exception?  
LUCAS POUILLE:   Yeah, but I won his serve, too.   I broke him a lot of times, so...   
   
 Q.   That is more difficult.   
LUCAS POUILLE:   Yeah, I know.   
It will be a different match.   Against Fognini I played a difficult match.   It was a few months ago.   I remember some things, but not the most important.   
About the serve today, you know, it's very complicated to win the serve on clay.   He's very far from the baseline, so I will see tomorrow.   I try to serve better.   
Honestly, now I don't care that I lose the serve many times.   We will see tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of your level of game in this match?   That were ups and downs, of course.   
LUCAS POUILLE:   It was not easy.   This was my first match on clay, and I had no preparation on this surface before.   I was tense that I had to play this first match without practicing on clay.   
But I spoke with my coach.   He helped me prepare for the match.   On the court, I was trying to think about myself and not about him.   I was not the favorite, but I guess it was tough for him, too.   
I tried to do my best.   It was tough to break him.   There were many breaks in the match.   Returns came very deep.   It's different from hard courts.   The bounce is not always perfect on clay.   Even if I was serving hard, he had time to return.   
   
 Q.   Isn't it the sliding that is most difficult to a adjust to on clay?  
LUCAS POUILLE:   Yes.   You slide and then you hit, so the movements are different.   The important thing for me is that I approached that match the right way.   I was feeling good in my mind and I played a good match.   
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy playing on this surface or does it take a lot of effort for you?  
LUCAS POUILLE:   I really enjoy playing on clay, even if I can't say it is my favorite surface.   It is slower.   It's very enjoyable.   But I'll play better once I have more matches under my belt.   
   
 Q.   How is your shoulder?   
LUCAS POUILLE:   The problem is solved.   
   
 Q.   What was the problem?   
LUCAS POUILLE:   Tendonitis.   
   
 Q.   Can you describe where you are right now in your career.   It seems you've been constructing it very carefully.   You practiced with the top players.   You're going to play Nadal tomorrow.   You have knowledge of that high level of play.   
LUCAS POUILLE:   Yes, it helped me to practice with those players because once you know you can win a set here and there, it helps.   I practiced with them to get that kind of experience.   
But I played with Stan and Roger, who are right‑handed with a one‑handed backhand, and tomorrow I'm going to play a lefty with a two‑handed backhand, so...   
   
 Q.   You never practiced with Nadal, did you?  
LUCAS POUILLE:   No, never.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to try to hit with a lefty tonight?  
LUCAS POUILLE:   I'll try to find a lefty tomorrow morning to hit a little bit.   This is something I like to do.   If I play a right‑handed player, I hit with a right‑handed player.   If I play a lefty, I like to hit with a left‑handed player.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT