BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 30, 2014
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/L. Pouille
  6‑4, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French, please.   
   
 Q.   So what is your feeling after that match?   You fought for your chances or you wanted to do better?   
LUCAS POUILLE:   Well, I don't care about the length of the match.   What I'm disappointed about is because I lost.   
I thought he was good.   He served well.   I didn't have many opportunities.   On the return games he was very aggressive.   As I said, I thought he was good.   
But I'm happy with my tournament.   I will be able to draw many positive things from it.   
   
 Q.   You thought you could have done better today or you think you did your best?   
LUCAS POUILLE:   I could have done better.   I could have returned better, and maybe some points I could have played better.   I made a mistake, whereas if I had hit not as hard I would've been able to put the ball in.   
But it's not easy to play on a big court like this when you're not used to it.   But it's by playing those matches that you get used to it and that you will have some references you can use.   I hope I'll become a bit better on those type of courts.  
   
 Q.   Can you tell us what it is like to play on such a big court, and in the evening on top of it?  
LUCAS POUILLE:   Well, for the crowd I was able to manage this emotionally.   I stepped on the court and the crowd was great from the start.   So this didn't prevent me from playing my game, no.   
I just started like another match, as if I was on Court 1.   But the court is big.   There is a great atmosphere.   There is TV and everything.   So those are the things you're playing tennis for.   
Playing in the evening you have to wait a long time during the day.   It's long.   You have to wait a long time.  
But it's worthwhile waiting if you have to play‑‑ get a chance to play before such a crowd and on such a stadium.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday you played in the evening, too.   
LUCAS POUILLE:   Yes, I finished my game yesterday at 9:00.   It was 11:30 when I left stadium last night, so wasn't very different today.  
Except that this time I had a precise time.   I knew it was not going to be before 7:30, so it was easier.   I didn't need to be here in the stadium a lot earlier.   
   
 Q.   What tactics did you think about before playing him?   And was it easier to have a game plan against him?   
LUCAS POUILLE:   Yes, it's easier to have a game plan against him.   Against an opponent in a challenger you don't play against someone who won 17 Grand Slams.  
So we knew the weak points and strong points of Roger, so with my coach we analyzed his game.   Of course when he's on the other side of the net it's more complicated.   He puts a lot of spin and it's difficult to control the ball and find a rhythm.   
I know we shouldn't play in the middle of the court.   I know when he turns around his backhand to play his forehand he becomes very dangerous.   The plan is to be very aggressive, because he doesn't like to defend.   He prefers to be aggressive.   
But his backhand chip also is very bothering.   If you don't play the perfect shot then you have to run.   I mean, we always need to make the perfect shot, otherwise we are in a difficult position.  
Today I wasn't able to do that.   I will watch the match and see what lessons can be drawn and what we can work on to improve.  
   
 Q.   Thanks to this week, are you going to change your goals for 2015?   Maybe higher goals now?   
LUCAS POUILLE:   I still have three tournaments to play in 2014, so my goals are not over for 2014.   Maybe with my ranking I'll be able to make the draw in the Australian Open.  
I need to take 160 points.   It's not going to be easy.   I have to win two challengers.   Why not?   It's a good challenge.   
And for 2015, once this season is over, I will have one week rest and then we'll set new goals with my coach.   I believe they will be higher, yes, because I'm confident, I'm playing well right now, I played a good tournament here, and it's very encouraging for next season.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT