BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 28, 2014
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







L. POUILLE /I. Karlovic
  6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in French. 

Q.   You were promised to have a lot of trouble on his serve, but in fact you held your serve a lot better than he held his serve.   How do you explain this?
LUKAS POUILLE:   I didn't expect a match like this.   I wouldn't say it was simple.   Of course it was not easy, but the score is quite tough. 
From the start I was able to return well.   I was able to return his first serves and second serves, so he was under pressure.   For him it's not easy to play against a player who returns a lot.   He has to serve better.   I'm very pleased with that match.

Q.   What does this victory mean for you at this point of your career?
LUKAS POUILLE:   It means a lot.   I'm very happy.   This year was quite difficult because I was injured twice for two months.   So it was very difficult.   In August I had played only four months. 
Now I'm happy I'm playing at that level.   A few months before, during the past two or three months I played well.   I was able to have good results against good players, and I knew I would convert that good game into victories. 
This happened here.   I'm extremely happy.

Q.   What about your next match?
LUKAS POUILLE:   Well, he's a great player.   He has a lot of talent.   He plays at a very high level, and I expect a very tough match.   But I feel good physically, and my tennis is at a good level, so I will try everything I can to win.

Q.   Can you talk about this Court No. 1?   Do you like that court?   Is it a strange court?
LUKAS POUILLE:   I'm not going to say I don't like that court.   It would be too much.   But I played well during those three matches that I won.   But it's indoors.   It's closed.   I understand that some players don't like it, but I like the noise when you hit the ball on your racquet. 
The crowd is very close.   The crowd was behind me from the start.   It was nice.   I personally like that court.   Other players don't like it as much, but I do.

Q.   Maybe you were asked the question, but how did you feel against Karlovic?   You know that in Basel he had pushed Federer, so... 
LUKAS POUILLE:   I know.   I watched a part of that match before I played.   I knew he was fit before coming here.   I knew he had played a good tournament in Basel.   I saw the interview of Federer saying that Karlovic served incredible, so I knew the match would be tough. 
I really thought I would be served aces a lot more, but I don't know what happened to him.   Maybe it was not a good day for his serve, but I played well from the start to the end on his first and second serve.

Q.   Were you able to read his serve?
LUKAS POUILLE:   Yes, I could guess when I saw him toss the ball where he was going to serve, so this is why I didn't miss many first serves or I didn't get aced too much.   I was able to anticipate and to return his serve.

Q.   About Fognini.   We know he's a very special player.   He talks a lot.   He's tricky sometimes.   He's tricky.   What do you think?   Will you have to stay very focused?   Is it going to be difficult?
LUKAS POUILLE:   Yes, it's going to be difficult to stay focused.   He can do whatever he wants.   I will just concentrate on my game and continue what I am doing.   I hope the crowd will be behind me. 
People talk a lot about him, but he's still a top 15‑seeded player here, so he plays well.   Whatever he can do, I know the match will be difficult, and I'm going to prepare the best I can. 

Q.   So as you said, you had two injuries this season.   When did you believe things were going to get better?
LUKAS POUILLE:   It's when I played against Montanes in a challenger in Poland.   I was able to win 7‑6 on clay in the third set.   He's a good player on clay. 
That was only my second tournament after I started playing again and I was able to play a good match and to fight until the end.
These victories in the third set are very good for your confidence, so I felt a lot better after that.   Thanks to that match, I was able to play well again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT