AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2019
Lucas Pouille
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








L. POUILLE/B. Coric
6-7, 6-4, 7-5, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. That was a very tight four sets.  How are you feeling after that?
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, I'm feeling well.  Very happy.  As you said, it's been four very close sets.  Few details made the difference at the end, but I think I made a great match.
Yeah, at the end I was a little bit better, I think, for three sets especially from the end of the first set.
Q. He's a very good defensive player, especially.  Curious your game plan was not to let him do that and give him less pace to feed off of?
LUCAS POUILLE: I tried to mix it up a lot with the backhand.  Slice, dropshot, try to be more consistent than him at some points.
I think I did it really well, especially in the important moment, like in the last tiebreaker, in the fourth set.  I was very solid.  I didn't make except one mistake.
That was, I think, the key.
Q. Amélie had a lot of variety in her game.  How much did she help you to play, mix it up like that?
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, yeah, that's one goal, to mix it up a lot and to be more consistent, especially from the baseline.  When you don't have to go, to go for it, then you have to be patient and try to play some good shot in the good zone.  We working a lot on this, so it worked pretty good today.
Q. You're back into the quarterfinals for the first time in a couple years.  How does it feel to be back there and also playing Milos next?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, it's good.  It's good to be back in the quarters.  That's where I want to be.
We worked very hard during the preseason and during the beginning of the year, so I think that's, as we say, hard work pays off.  I think, yeah, the tournament is not over, but I'm very happy to be here now and I'm going to be -- I'm going to focus on the next match tomorrow to try to reach my first semifinal.  It will be great.
Q. Are you happy with your level heading into the quarterfinal, or is the best yet to come?
LUCAS POUILLE: Yeah, of course I'm happy.  Borna is 11 or -- yeah, 11 or 12 in the world.  So if you want to beat those kind of guys, obviously you have to play some good tennis.
I'm sure I can be better, much better, but I'm on a good road, and we are gonna still working to be better.  Yeah, I think this match was a good match.
Q. A different question.  When you watch this tournament on TV, they have a lot of shots from the cameras, corridors and around the arena, behind the scenes, hallways, where people are gathering in the locker rooms and everything.  I'm wondering if you are conscious being on camera at any moment?
LUCAS POUILLE: Well, I don't pay attention to it.  I think I'm not doing any mistake, so no, I don't think it's a problem.  I think it's interesting for the people, for the crowd to see those moments, to be, to kind of living with the players.  I think that's what they want, as well.  I think it's a good idea.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT