JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
April 23, 2005
Gary Rusnak
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Gary Rusnak, second round 65, total 11 under par, four behind Adam.  You must be pleased with the way you played.
GARY RUSNAK:  Oh, yeah, very pleased.  Very pleased.  I've been playing really kind of poorly this year, so it's unexpected to play well.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  What was the key to the good round, Gary?
GARY RUSNAK:  I'm doing everything pretty well.  I'm hitting the driver straight and long, and I'm putting well.  So I've just had everything going and playing about as good as I could play.
Q.  You've playing in Asia for a couple years now; this would be a good week to win.
GARY RUSNAK:  Yeah, I've been on Tour since '99.  I think I finished second once but have never won.  Obviously Adam Scott, a great player, and he's got a four shot lead, so I've got two more rounds to try to catch him.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Let's go through the details of your birdies and bogeys.
GARY RUSNAK:  Yeah, the second hole, the par 5, driver, 3 wood, chipped up, four feet, birdie.

5, driver, sand wedge, birdie.

8, driver, 3 wood and the bunker, hit a good bunker shot about five feet and made it.

10 was my only bogey.  I hooked it left up against the tree and had no shot.

11, I hit 3 wood, 9 iron, five feet.

13, I hit driver, 4 iron on the back of the green and 2 putted for birdie.

14, I hit driver, 5 iron and made about a 30 footer from the top level.

16, driver, 3 wood, chipped about four feet.

Last hole, driver, 9 iron to two feet.
Q.  Does it help to be under come from under the radar and have a very good day?
GARY RUSNAK:  Yeah, we hardly had a gallery out there.  I was just kind of doing my own thing.  It definitely helped.

Now, with the third round, more expectations, it will be tougher, but just got to deal with that and do the best you can.  Yeah, it's definitely easier to play when you're not really in the spotlight.
Q.  You said you have not been playing up to expectations this season; have you been able to put a finger on it?
GARY RUSNAK:  I just haven't had much confidence in my game and I have kind of been debating whether even to continue playing.  I've got two young kids, and they kind of cry every time I leave home to come here, so it's just hard.  I think it's been a combination of my family and that kind of thing.
Q.  What made you stick it out?
GARY RUSNAK:  What's made me stick it out?  Not wanting to get a job.  (Laughter).
Q.  Can you tell us how you manage to go back and forth to the States?
GARY RUSNAK:  Yeah, I make about six trips a year, three and four weeks at a time.  This trip will be longer; it will be about seven weeks.  My family is going to come over in the Philippines.  It's a lot of travel, I think I've traveled more than anybody that's played on Tour.  I've got already almost 100,000 air miles this year.
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:  Gary, thank you very much for coming in and good luck.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT