ATLANTIC 10 CONFERENCE MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2019
Anthony Grant
Jordan Davis
Jalen Crutcher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Those last five minutes, what happened?
JALEN CRUTCHER: I think we just didn't go in, get second-chance points.  They got a lot of second-chance points in the second half.  We should have blocked out.  They got a lot of second-chance points, so I think that's what happened.
Q. How did you feel about your performance tonight?
JALEN CRUTCHER: I think I did pretty good.  I could have did better for my team.  I had five turnovers, so I didn't play my best game.  So I think I did pretty good overall though, but I could have did better.
Q. You know Obi pretty well.  He really couldn't move too much in the second half, right, or he just seemed like he was pretty still hobbled yet?
JALEN CRUTCHER: I think they did pretty good in their 1-3-1 zone taking away our bigs.  Take my hat off to them.
Q. How frustrating is this, you're playing so well last week and I know you wanted to make a run here.  To lose your first game, how does that feel?
JORDAN DAVIS: I mean, it hurts.  I mean, we wanted to win the whole thing.  We wanted to come and win the whole thing, so it hurts.
Q. Same question.  You guys, same thing last year, lost that first game and I know it's going to be talked about all off-season now.  Is that a little tough to handle right now in?
JALEN CRUTCHER: Of course.  Like Jordan said, we tried to come in and win the whole thing.  You know, last year, this happened, we lost the first game and we tried, we went out there and we tried our best not to lose, but we got to live with the results.
Q. What were they able to do, whether defensively, offensively, during that last run to turn that two-point deficit so late?
COACH ANTHONY GRANT: I don't remember every play, but obviously I thought Bess really stepped up and made some big-time plays for his team.
You know, we had some opportunities from an offensive standpoint that we weren't able to capitalize on, either turnovers or missed shots that led to obviously them being able to maintain that lead and build upon that lead.
You know, we had some defensive breakdowns there, so give them credit.  They played well.
Q. What do you think about their 1-3-1 zone?  Do you think that hurt you a lot?
COACH ANTHONY GRANT: Yeah, it hurt us.  It was a big factor in the game.  You know, they have done it throughout the year, but obviously tonight, they found a defense that was working.
You know, we've seen a few different defenses out of them from man to 3-2 to 2-3 to press to 1-3-1.  The 1-3-1 today was the defense that they were able to have sustained success with, so they went with that.
Did a good job.  They have got great length, physicality, athleticism and it bothers; so yeah, give them credit.
Q. Obi came back in the game and seemed to give a great effort, but didn't seem to be a 100 percent.  What did you see in his injury?
COACH ANTHONY GRANT: We were hoping that the second half it would loosen up on him a little bit.  He did -- he went out there and he battled and he tried but obviously he wasn't what we're used to seeing out of him, and you know, but at the end of the day, our guys went out and competed at a high level all year, and like I told them, they got nothing to hang their hat about.
You know, it didn't go our way today, so you've got to give Saint Louis credit, and you know, we've got a great group of guys in there, and I'm proud to be their coach.
Q. Do you expect to get an NIT bid?  Do you think this team is looking forward to that, now that the NCAA --
COACH ANTHONY GRANT: That's completely out of our hands.  I would love to get an opportunity for us to continue to play, so hopefully, you know, with what we've been able to accomplish over the course of the year, that opportunity will be available to this group.
You know, there's a lot of good teams out there, so we'll see what the weekend brings, but hopefully we'd love nothing more than to be able to continue to play.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT