PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 13, 2011
Steve Webster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A tremendous round of golf, with the position you're in in The Race to Dubai, how good was it?
 STEVE WEBSTER: One of them things, just played one shot at a time, played great start, birdied the first four holes. Couple slip0ups in the middle but played really well. Putted really nicely at the right time.

 Q. Why has your year been so unsatisfactory? 
 STEVE WEBSTER: Strange, I've made a lot of cuts but just played poor at the weekend, and that's why I found myself down The Race to Dubai. The last four weeks I've changed to the long putter and nice to make some putts.

 Q. What's the advantage of the long putter? 
 STEVE WEBSTER: My strike's better. I'd gotten carried away with where the hole is rather than the start line so focusing on that for last month and tried. You know, just in other words, always find the hole, try to look at the hole rather than the start line, so that's the improvement.

 Q. What sort of a player are you, are you a player that's conscious of where you are as the weeks roll by, or you don't want to really look at things too much?
 STEVE WEBSTER: Thanks for telling me. I don't know. I've come here, obviously it's not been my best season. But I've actually played well. So I've not really been too down in the dumps about it. I've had the a lot of good shots, so I'm just taking the positive.

 Q. What about good vibes from this golf course?
 STEVE WEBSTER: I love this golf course. Obviously I've won here and played really well the last couple of years here so it suites my eye. If I give myself some chances, who knows.

 Q. How was that?
 STEVE WEBSTER: Really good. Got off to a great start, felt comfortable on the greens, made a few putts early doors and that was it. Hit the greens and made the putts.

 Q. Something special about this place for you, isn't there?
 STEVE WEBSTER: Really suits my eye, I can see the shots and I'm managing to play them which is even better. I always remember playing with Robert Karlsson last day, and he got off to a flying start, and I did and we just pushed each other along and just seeing a lot of birdies which is great.

 Q. Is it right up there with your absolute favourite courses in the world?
 STEVE WEBSTER: Of course, yes. 

 Q. Which others would you compare to?
 STEVE WEBSTER: I love playing in Dubai. I love golf in it Dubai and the Abu Dhabi course, in great condition and they suit my eye, as well. Not that I have had great results there, but I really enjoy playing there. But I love this one and I like Valderrama if I can get in in a couple of weeks. We just have to see. 

 Q. In terms of getting into there, you've said last week in Madrid that the game is pretty much there, isn't it. 
 STEVE WEBSTER: Not necessarily that. I've made a lot of cuts which I don't want to -- I'm not playing to make the cuts but I've given myself a lot of chances to be up there, just had poor weekends, so I'm just turning that around.

 Q. Does it make a difference when you're playing, I know that this is a course you favour, but when you really got to chase the birdies because you know that will 68 is no good around here in a sense?
 STEVE WEBSTER: It's one of them courses that is a lot of birdies but you have to be patient. If you get carried away trying to make birdies, you'll end up messing it up really. So just hit one shot at a time. 

 Q. And your preparation?
 STEVE WEBSTER: I missed my flight, I was in Germany and had a private jet put on and but there wasn't enough room, and couldn't get my golf bags on so had to go take another two flights, but that's life. Not an ideal buildup, but I do know this course, so it wasn't as if I was worried.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT