SAAB WALES OPEN
June 2, 2011
Steve Webster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tell us how you managed that in these wonderful sunny conditions?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: It was a brilliant day, the weather was perfect, so I felt just like I was in Spain. So I felt quite comfortable out there, and played some good golf.   
  
  Q. How good?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: Really good. Ball-striking was where I should be. Struggled for about a year or so, but it's really good today. Did a lot of work with Pete Cowen over the last couple of days, and it feels a lot better now.  
  
  Q. And that's all aspects, from the tee as the approach?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: Pretty much everything, yeah. I've changed a bit of everything. Not changed but obviously, yeah, well, I was doing things wrong, and I've gotten the ball-striking back, I was hitting it a lot further, a lot more compression on the ball, really good.  
  
  Q. Did you know you were doing things wrong?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: I guess so. I could tell by the shape of the shot I was hitting. Obviously that was frustrating and I didn't really know my golf swing as much as I thought I did, or I thought I knew what I was doing as such. But I had a good chat with Pete and Mike. It's been really good today.  
  
  Q. Probably comes as a surprise to you, that you don't know your swing as well as you should?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: I knew my swing but I didn't really know. I lost track of what I was doing a little bit. So just started again. Started fresh this week.  
  
  Q. Is that the same mantra for all of us, have somebody else look at your game and get that little coaching now and then?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: Yeah, you think you're doing what feels right and it's pretty much wrong.   
  
  Q. Tell us some of the highlights out there?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: Played really well. 3-wood on to the 15th to about 15 feet and just missed an eagle. A lot of really solid -- just solid iron shots. I hit a wedge stiff on the third -- sorry, the second, the par 5. Obviously 7-iron into the next par 3, 12 feet, and made that.   
 So, no, all good.   
  
  Q. And I state the obvious, the weather is all good.   
 STEVE WEBSTER: Brilliant. Heat wave.   
  
  Q. I presume you've played this course in all sorts of weather?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: Yes, I've played it a lot softer than this and a lot wetter, and it's nice for a change.  
  
  Q. Does it change markedly?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: It's still a long course. You know, it's still playing it's full length.   
  
  Q. Has that changed with Pete? Is he your new coach?   
 STEVE WEBSTER: I've been with Pete for a while. I just needed to get back on track with him really.  
  
  Q. Catch up with him, stop talking to his super cars?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: It's not that, his soup every stars you doing great, fair play. I just needed to chat with him about what I was doing.   
  
  Q. Did you have a good sit down with him?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: Real good. He gave me a bit of a roasting, which was really good, I needed it. All good.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT