OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
February 11, 2011
Steve Webster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE WEBSTER: Played a little bit better yesterday but I also hit some great shots today. So very similar. Very similar.  
  
  Q. Brett Rumford finished a little before you and said, if anything, he got the wrong end of the draw.   
 STEVE WEBSTER: Yeah, definitely windy. Flat calm this morning I suppose, but it makes no difference really because we played holes that were calm. People played them downwind, which made them shorter. So it's a lot of positives.  
  
  Q. And the greens are staying in lovely shape regardless?   
 STEVE WEBSTER: Best I've ever seen them. Normally they spike up a little bit here, but they are running true and they are firm, as well, which is great.  
  
  Q. Is there any reason for that? I heard not overseeded or something?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: I'm sure. The best they have ever been; it's been good.  
  
  Q. And you should know, you come year upon year.   
 STEVE WEBSTER: I've been here a few times.   
  
  Q. You like Dubai?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: Yeah, I've got a lot of friends here and done a lot of practise out here. It's a bit like a second home really, my main sponsor out here, Abdullah. So it's a bit like a second home really.  
  
  Q. Give a clue to those at home what it's like and how it's changed down these years?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: First time I come here it was just the Hard Rock Cafe overlooking the golf course and as you know, there's now a million apartments over there. It's crazy how it's developed the last ten years or so, but great climate and great facilities, and that's what I really like about it.  
  
  Q. And despite the downturn in the economy --  
 STEVE WEBSTER: I think it's coming back around. You didn't feel it had gone away much, but I think it's turned around now.   
  
  Q. People coming out to support the golf and everything; so you must enjoy playing in this environment.   
 STEVE WEBSTER: Yeah, going to get strong wind at the weekend apparently, so it will be a bit more tricky, but looking forward to the challenge.  
  
  Q. First time in a little while?  
 STEVE WEBSTER: Oh, yeah, but it's about time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT