ALSTOM OPEN DE FRANCE
July 3, 2010
Steve Webster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Well played, you've got yourself right back in the mix, wasn't a great start for you but you've put yourself right in the frame now?
 STEVE WEBSTER: I made a few birdies on the back nine and it's one of them courses, there's a lot of chances out there but you've just got to take your chances. Yeah, I did a good back nine.

 Q. How difficult was it hanging around for all that time this morning and then getting off -- didn't get off to the best of starts, did you. 
 STEVE WEBSTER: Yeah, it's frustrating because you get going around 12:30 and then taken off at half two, but quite lucky seeing the rain passed and I had the good side of the draw.

 Q. Birdie on 17 gives you a nice taste in your mouth as you finish, doesn't it?
 STEVE WEBSTER: Yeah, I hit a great wedge to about three inches, and great birdie on the par 5, as well. And I played the back nine really well, which was good.

 Q. Now it's all going to be pretty exciting tomorrow; how are you going to play tomorrow? 
 STEVE WEBSTER: Hopefully more of the same. I'm swinging the club well. Just make a few putts and you know, we'll take it from there.

 Q. Just got to get those putts dropping and get the ball rolling nicely?
 STEVE WEBSTER: I played good enough today to probably shoot 66. I just didn't make the putts early on. I made a few on the back nine, so a good finish.

 Q. Quite a bunched leaderboard, one of those courses that so much can happen?
 STEVE WEBSTER: I think it always will be on one of these courses. There's a lot of birdie chances out there and a lot of real good players so it's always going to be bunched up I think.

 Q. The last four holes always throw up a bit of drama, birdies and bogeys and all sorts of things which happen. Do you anticipate it being an exciting finish tomorrow?
 STEVE WEBSTER: Of course, definitely, you've got four of the best golfing holes all year we play. There's always going to be excitement over the last few holes, definitely. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT