BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2010
Steve Webster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your reflections on a good day?
 STEVE WEBSTER: Yeah, played really good front nine. Let a few silly shots on the back nine, but overall really happy how I played really good.

 Q. Good score on a new track? 
 STEVE WEBSTER: Yeah, you know, I played the front nine, I missed from about ten feet on the 9th to go out in 30, and I thought, you know, this is pretty good. 
 But, you know, the back nine is quite tricky. But hit some good shots still so I was happy.

 Q. What are your thoughts on the track?
 STEVE WEBSTER: It's good. Playing fair. Playing probably the easiest it will ever be, only 5- or 6-under is leading, so it's obviously tougher. You know, just keep going and see if we can get in there at the end of the week.

 Q. I think everybody accepted the greens needed changing, but as an old hand at this course, are you happy?
 STEVE WEBSTER: Obviously they are a little bit slower than we are normally used to. But you know, give them a few years or so, they will be able to trim them right down and they will get really quick. At the minute they are a bit slow, so you can go for a few putts actually out there.

 Q. And you tend to find the fairways more often than not?
 STEVE WEBSTER: Pretty good. I was happy today. Gave myself a lot of chances and that's what you have to do around here.

 Q. A couple of guys have said it's defined better than it used to be because of the fairway bunkers. 
 STEVE WEBSTER: Problem is you can't hit it in the bunkers and reach the green most of the time. They are very deep and very penalising, so you have to drive it better than you used to be around here. You can get away with it now and again but not this year.

 Q. A good thing not having the rough up? 
 STEVE WEBSTER: Yeah, if the rough is up as well, it will be pretty brutal but we have good weather so it should be firm. It will be good. 

 Q. I guess this is a continuation of a few weeks ago?
 STEVE WEBSTER: I played good in Italy, not the last day but I started to hit a lot of good shots which is encouraging for the next month. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT