ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2008
Steve Webster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE WEBSTER:  You've got to take the positives.  You know, I played great.  First 12 holes was, you know, as good as I could play really.  A lot of birdie chances, and made seven birdies around a tough course.   
 Disappointed to finish with the three bogeys in the middle of the round, but, you know, that's life.   
  
  Q.  Did you ever find yourself looking at the leaderboard?  I know it's only day two --   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  Of course I did.  I wanted to push him.  He was 10-under and I was nine and I thought if I could get to 10 or 11, we could break away a little bit, but I went backward, he went forwards.   
  
  Q.  Does that mean you were pushing too hard?   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  Not really.  But I was playing well, so I've always been told, if you're playing well, you know, push it a little bit.  It's when you're not playing quite so good you have to take a few of the percentage shots.   
 So, yeah, I went for a few shots, and I hit it in the rough actually.  It wasn't the irons that were the problem.  I drove it in the rough and just had to chip out sideways.   
  
  Q.  Thinking back to Portugal, he shot a 61 on day one and you ended up winning the tournament.  I know different circumstances but ...   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  He's obviously a fair player.  I think he hits it miles, and, you know, he played in front of me everything and he looked at, I think he holed.  But you know I've just got to play my game.   
  
  Q.  And you're pretty confident and happy about your game, no doubt, after that win?   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  Yeah, it's definitely changed my mind-set turning up to tournaments rather than just making up the field.  Obviously I want to push for more victories, as well.   
  
  Q.  You wintered well?   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  Yeah, I went to the Ricky Hatton fight in Vegas, and it took me a couple of weeks to get over that.  But apart from that, yeah, a lot of practise.  I was in the gym for six weeks with my trainer, Ron Cuthbert, he looks after me and Nick Dougherty.  I had a really good time in the gym and then you know back out here.  So, all good.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT