PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 20, 2007
Steve Webster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  66 today, nice score, third round?   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  Yeah, it's quite good.  It's difficult to get going after two rounds of 66 really.  I got off to a nice start, little hiccup in the middle and a good finish, so right in the mix.   
  
  Q.  You were right there going into the back nine, and all of a sudden you bogeyed 11 and 12 where you expect to make a bogey on 12, but then all of a sudden you bounce back three holes from home and you went birdie, birdie, birdie, so that's good.   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  Probably did me a bit of good, actually.  I was getting a little too complacent I think.  I thought it was quite easy out there, and then all of a sudden, you go bogey, bogey, and all of a sudden you're about 15th and gave me a bit of a kick and a good finish which I needed.   
  
  Q.  You're built like a jockey, but you do pound it out there, don't you.   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  I have my days.  Not today; I was about 40 yards behind my playing partner, but I can get it over 225.   
  
  Q.  But you're putting well, which is great.   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  That's the key on a low-scoring course.  It's one of the shortest courses we play all year, a lot of wedge shots and 80-, 90-yard shots and you have to make the putts.   
  
  Q.  It was a very interesting round out there, you played a great front nine and you had a bit of a stumble at 11 and 12; what were you feeling at that point?   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  Yeah, it's a bit frustrating really because they are both birdie holes and I come off of them with a 5 and a 6.   
 But it gave me a bit of a kick and boosted me to birdie three of the last four, so it worked out well in the end.  So it didn't really bother me as such.   
  
  Q.  The birdies on 15, 16 and 17 were really done in style, especially 16, that was a great putt.  Tell us about that one.   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  Yeah, it was a big putt.  I hit a good 5-iron off the tee.  I thought it was going to get to the top of the ridge because some of the greens are quite firm.  So I left myself about a 50-foot putt, and as soon as I hit it, I thought, well, it's got a good chance.  And I was just trying to get it close to be honest.  Next thing I know, it's dropped in.  And it's a great putt to make, and I needed it to get back in the tournament.   
  
  Q.  How do you feel about your game going into Sunday?  It's been a while since you've won.   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  Yeah, it's been a couple years now but you have to be in it to win really.  I'm right in the mix and it's a low-scoring course and need a lot of birdies and that's it.   
  
  Q.  Do you like the fact that it's a low-scoring course to go out and win?   
 STEVE WEBSTER:  I do, this week, yeah, because it seems to suit my game.  But normally I prefer a bit of a harder course where maybe 10- or 12-under would win.  But my putting game is on and I'm driving the ball well, so hopefully I can make a lot of birdies tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT