COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 22, 2014
Steve Webster
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A dream start for you, you had an albatross, share the details?
STEVE WEBSTER:   254 to the pin, wind slightly off the left.   I was going to say 5‑iron but it was a 5‑wood.   Hut a great shot obviously straight at it, because I carry a big crowd following me, there was about two people behind the green and one of them started jumping up and pointing down.   Thought, don't know whether it's gone over the back to the rocks, get up there and he starts clapping.   Dream start.

Q.   What kind of effect does that have on you for the rest of the round?
STEVE WEBSTER:   It's quite hard work, because I've never been 3‑under after one before.   And then you think, you know, is this my day, or have I have all my luck on the first.
I played great after that and was just really consistent, gave myself a lot of putts and gave myself a lot of chances.   I was probably a little disappointed with 7‑under to be honest.   I should have finished probably nine or ten, but it's a good start.

Q.   It's not your first albatross.   Tell us about the other one? 
STEVE WEBSTER:   About two or three years ago in Italy, holed a 5‑wood at 245 yards, never left the pin.   You need a little bit of luck obviously. 

Q.   Some important things going on in your life? 
STEVE WEBSTER:   Yeah, hopefully moving to Dubai.   Getting all that sorted at the moment.   Saw a nice apartment I like and I want to make the change.   It's great for practicing and the facilities there, so I'm looking forward to it. 

Q.   So it's not so much a lifestyle change as a golfing change, or is it either way? 
STEVE WEBSTER:   A bit of both.   Bit of both.   Obviously I base myself there six months a year, and back in the U.K. six months, so it's‑‑ I can't wait to change. 

Q.   So what's the plan for the next three days? 
STEVE WEBSTER:   Well, pretty much got to play the same I think to win this tournament.   The scoring will be low because the greens are good.   There's a lot of birdies out there so I've got to keep doing the same. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT