UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 21, 2016
Ariya Jutanugarn
Pornanong Phatlum
Moriya Jutanugarn
Porani Chutichai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: I would like to welcome in all four members of Team Thailand.  You guys had a very solid for this week, three points up on the board, one win, one halved match.  Pornanong, I want to start with you.  First point up on the board, you made that putt on 17.  How important was that to seal the deal, get that birdie and get that first point up for Thailand?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM: We talked through the game all the way, good communication, good teamwork, and the 17th and 18 holes is very good, and Moriya, she gave advice on the line and everything that is perfect.  Today is good, very good.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: Moriya, you guys were down early in the match but kind of took control and didn't let up on the lead.  Once you did get control of the match, did you guys talk about it, say not let down?  What were you guys communicating about when you said you're communicating so much?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, we're trying to help each other, like keep talking and just have fun out there.  We're just talking about the positive things, and what is going to happen, and we tried to help each other, talking about the games a little bit, like who's going to go first, or sometimes help her like reading the line or she helped me.  She kind of carried me a lot on the back nine, and I think we played pretty solid.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: Ariya, I want to ask you, how did these pairings go down?  I think when everybody saw that the sisters weren't together everybody was a little shocked, but clearly it worked.  Tell us what went into the decision and how you guys thought it worked out.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Like when we practiced all week, we talked about who's going to play with who, so we decided I was going to play with Porani, and we had a good match.  I think I can be more aggressive and she can help me save.  I think today came out pretty good.  We had a good match.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: Can you give us any leeway on what tomorrow might look like?   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Still a secret.   
 Q.  Mo, could you answer this?  Eight players from Thailand came through Q-school, most ever last year.  Mae becomes the first player from Thailand to win an LPGA event.  Can you talk about the state of the game in Thailand and how much excitement there is about you guys are doing?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Well, I'm so excited we have a lot more players qualified on the LPGA Tour right now.  I think all the new generation, they're doing great.  They're working hard, and like when I played junior golf I had Pornanong inspire me for LPGA, and a lot of like good players on Tour.   
You know, I think we get stronger like for the ladies' golf, and I really happy for it.  Like I wish we had more Thai people on Tour.   
 Q.  Is it true, I think I heard, that Mae basically, did you predict that you guys were going to win?  Is that true?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Yes.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: Several times.  I was the witness.  I witnessed that.  That was probably the first ever in history that somebody predicted an LPGA win.  I loved it.  It was great.   
 Q.  Mae, do you have any idea who Joe Namath is?  Probably not.  No?  Okay.  
 Does the fact that it was hotter than a Bangkok sauna out there help you guys, and what are you helping for weather-wise tomorrow?   
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I wish it was a little cooler.  I know everybody thought we're really used to it because we are Thai, but still, it was really hot.   
In hot weather and really humid, we're going to lose a lot of energy, so I think we have to like watch out for it and maybe keep drinking or like help each other like talking about that a little bit.   
 Q.  You guys had quite a few fans in the gallery, a lot of Thai fans.  Do you know all of these people or are these local people from Chicago?  Is this mostly family and friends in blue shirts?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Yeah, we meet them on Monday night.  They had a dinner for us, for Team Thailand.  We don't know all of them, but I'm pretty sure they are from all around.  Like someone is local from here, and I mean, someone come, like driving for -- like her, she drive for 14 hours to come and see us.  So yeah, it feels really warm, and it feels great.   
 Q.  Where did you have dinner on Monday?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: We went, it's like 30 minutes from here, so we went like downtown.   
 Q.  A Thai restaurant I take it?  
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Of course.   
 Q.  Ariya, you made seven birdies today, and yet your side only came out with a half.  Can you talk about the quality of the competition and what you might need to do tomorrow to get a point or get two points?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Actually today, she made some birdies, also.  It's not only me make like seven birdies, but I feel like more comfortable every time I make a birdie because she made par already and I know she's a good putter, so she kept me calm.   
PORANI CHUTICHAI: Actually I don't really have a chance to make the birdies because she's the one who make it first, so I just pick up the ball.   
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: I know if I miss it she's going to make it anyway.   
 Q.  What did you hit in on 8?  
ARIYA JUTANUGARN: Oh, 8-iron, second shot.   
MEGHAN FLANAGAN: All right, thank you for coming in.  Great first day.  We'll see you tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT