HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 20, 2019
Pornanong Phatlum
Thidapa Suwannapura
Atthaya Thitikul
Pajaree Anannarukarn
Benyapa Niphatsophon
Moriya Jutanugarn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Moderator: Welcome to the second session of “Meet the Players” that we invite all top Thai players here today. I am sure that all our ladies are ready to share with our press about their preparation and readiness for the tournament tomorrow.
May I introduce our players; Moriya Jutanugarn, Pro Mo has played on the LPGA Tour since 2013. She won the Hugel-JTBC LA Open last April ; The second one is Pornanong Phatlum, Pro Waen has started playing golf at the age of 9, last year she Posted two top-10 finishes including a season-best second-place finish at the Ricoh Women's British Open; Next are our invited 3 Thai players of the tournament;
Attaya Thitikul, She became the youngest ever winner on the Ladies European Tour by claiming victory in the Ladies European Thailand Championship in 2017 aged 14 years, 4 months and 19 days. This tournament, she is invited player.
Pajaree Anannarukarn, Pro Meo earned her card to play as Rookie in LPGA tour this season. She is one of our invited Thai player.; Pannarat Thanapolboonyaras, Pannarat “Saipan” Thanapolboonyaras, a Thai invitee to the 2019 Honda LPGA Thailand; Benyapa Niphatsophon or Pro Gift is the winner of our first National Qualifier. The last one is Thidapa Suwannapura. Pro Junior won her first LPGA Tour event, at the Marathon Classic, Ohio last year.
Q: How did you prepare yourself for joining Honda LPGA Thailand 2019? Did you do anything differently from last year?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: My training was generally the same as last year’s. But the course conditions this year have made me plan the game differently. I’ve played on Siam Country Club many times and I knew it is a great golf course. But this time the greens seem harder, so I must practice more seriously to get used to the landscape.
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: I feel the fairways here are narrower and the greens are quite firmer, which makes the ball roll so fast. Anyway, I think it is a perfect golf course for playing. I think players who can drive on fairways will have more chances to be on the green. But, on the green we must putt carefully, because it is so stiff and makes balls roll so quickly.
Q: Are you prepared well for the competition?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: I will do my best, of course. But as the other player have said, the greens are quite firm, so we must be careful, especially when playing downhill, as the hard ground means the ball goes farther. It is quite a challenging course this year and everyone must pay close attention to everything.
Q: Have you done anything differently to improve your game, taking into account what you experienced playing here last year?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: I think I can improve on my finish last year in 7th place. I was really happy about that result, but I’ll hope to do even better this year.
Q: How do you feel to join the competition this year?
PANNARAT THANAPOLBOONYARAS: I would like to thank Honda and IMG for inviting me to join the event again this year. I am ready, because I prepared for this match very well. I trained so hard and got a chance to practice here for two days. I think the course is quite challenging, but I will give it my best effort.
ATTHAYA THITIKUL: I am so glad and honored to join the Honda LPGA this year. Thank you, Honda and IMG, for inviting me and another two Thai players to join the event. I will try my best, for sure.
Q: Pajaree “Meow” Anannarukarn and Benyapa “Gift” Niphatsophon, this is the second year playing in the Honda LPGA Thailand. What are your goals for this year?
PAJAREE ANANNARUKARN: I am happy to join the Honda LPGA for a second time. I wish I can do a good job. Anyway, I will not pressure myself too much, but will just try to play on my highest level.
BENYAPA NIPHATSOPHON: I will do my best! That’s all I can do.
Q: What is your favorite golf course?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Right here at Siam Country Club Pattaya. I have to say, it is the place where I’ve played golf since childhood, and feels very familiar. Many things are happening here. Every time we visit, the place is set up beautifully, making this one of my favorite golf courses.
THIDAPA SUWANNAPURA: Another place for me is Rose Garden Golf Club. But it is unfortunate that after the big flood everything changed. I still miss it.
Q: Your group comprises young golfers. Who are the players who like to do the most teasing?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: I would say probably May and Mo. Especially May! She teases just about everyone. She is cute and playful, and makes everyone feel relaxed.
Q: What do foreign golfers say about Thai players? Are they afraid of you guys?
BENYAPA NIPHATSOPHON: We do not know if they are afraid of us, but we are not afraid of them!
Q: Does playing in your home country add an extra level of expectations and stress, or perhaps give you an advantage over foreign players?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: Golf is a challenging sport as we must change the course every week. We must move on and on. We cannot play great in a specific place, because playing golf depends on many factors, like weather, the conditions on the course and green and, luck. So, we have to adjust ourselves all the time. We did not claim victory in Honda LPGA last year, but you can see the results showed that Thai golfers did a good job. I am sure everyone works hard and do their best, every week.
Q: Do you feel pressured to win this year?
BENYAPA NIPHATSOPHON: No. I know everyone encourages us, and doesn’t put pressure on us. We just do our best.
Q: How do you feel when hearing golf fans cheering and shouting in the game?
BENYAPA NIPHATSOPHON: It is fun! (Laughs.)
Q: How do you feel about Japanese golf fans?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: They are so cute and polite. Every time we compete in Japan, we feel warmly welcomed. It is exciting to know more Japanese fans coming to see the Honda LPGA. Thailand. I am sure both Thai and Japanese fans, as well as audiences from other countries, will enjoy the competition this year.
Q: Last question. Do you have foreign fans who keep following you in tournaments?
MORIYA JUTANUGARN: I see some Japanese fans who come to cheer me every year, in almost every match. They will often try to let me know that they are still there and that makes me feel great.
Moderator: Thank you very much. May I ask all of our young ladies to join group photo. Last but not least, today is our lovely Attaya’s birthday and I’d like all of us here to join me in wishing her a very happy birthday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT