SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 30, 2013
Pornanong Phatlum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   No bogeys, not as many birdies, it's not like you can really‑‑ it's probably hard to do 10 birdies back‑to‑back, but talk about your round and how you felt throughout the whole day, no bogeys, which is great.   Did you try to minimize mistakes?   Is that something you tried to do?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   I'm playing kind of good today but my putter wasn't that hot.   I hit it‑‑ not like didn't get close enough to the pin, so I didn't make enough birdies on the front nine.   But then I started getting on a roll and then I made more birdies on the back.   
   
 Q.   Any long birdie putts?   Yesterday you said everything went in from long.   Any long today, or were they all short?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   Mix and match, long and short, all the birdies.   20, 25 feet I got a couple of them, too.  
   
 Q.   Have you played this well back‑to‑back in consecutive rounds ever?   Have you felt this good about your game in your career?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   I played this good before, but this is the first tournament that I felt really good at and really confident, so I've played really good, better than I have done before.   I'm more confident and everything is better than I have before.   
   
 Q.   I don't know if you've ever led after two rounds, but how do you feel like you'll handle the pressure tomorrow?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   I'm going to play like we planned, just like I played the first two rounds.   It's going to be a lot of pressure, but I'm going to keep it smooth and simple, just not to feel a lot of pressure, just try and play my game pretty much.  
   
 Q.   How often have you had the lead after a round on Tour?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   Never.  
   
 Q.   So yesterday was the first time?  
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   Yeah, it was.   It was the first time I've led the tournament.  
   
 Q.   Is that a goal of yours coming into this year, that you would want to get off to a fast start or get a lead?   Has that been something you've wanted to do, or have you just been kind of doing more shot by shot, concentrating on the little things?   Have you been making goals?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   I didn't expect to be leading for the first couple rounds.   I just feel like it's a lot more pressure if you're leading going into the third and fourth round, but I'm trying to play my game, just trying to keep it simple and one shot at a time.   
   
 Q.   You have an unofficial win, you won in Brazil but it's not technically a registered win in your career wins.   How badly do you want to get a win on your career list?   How badly do you want that win?   Have you been really fighting for it, you really want it?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   I really do want it, just at least one tournament.   I just want to win it.  
   
 Q.   Just one?  
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   Yeah, just one.  
   
 Q.   What do you think that would do for your game, for your mindset?   What do you think that would do for you?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   I'm going to have a lot more confidence.   I'm going to feel a lot better about my game.   I can play easier golf, just going smooth, not to have a lot of pressure on myself, just to keep it going.  
   
 Q.   How many wins do you have professionally outside of the LPGA?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   A lot.   Just this year only I got about four.   
   
 Q.   This is in Thailand or Asia?  
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   Asian Tour and Thailand, both of them.   I won earlier in the year first and then two in Thailand, so three already.   
   
 Q.   Three this year already?  
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   Yeah, just this year only, though.  
   
 Q.   Before that you have a lot more wins?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   Yeah, and then I won the one, the LET tournament in India in December last year, too, and a couple more back.  
   
 Q.   What do you think the biggest challenge is?   You know how to win and close out tournaments and get to the winner's circle.   What do you think is the biggest challenge getting a win on the LPGA?   You're a hard worker, everyone says how hard of a worker you are.   What's the biggest challenge to break through in the winner's circle here?   
PORNANONG PHATLUM:   I've put a lot of pressure on myself the last two rounds.   The first two is kind of just play your game, no matter, play as good as you can, but then the next two rounds it's going to be a lot of pressure.   I've got to be able to handle it pretty well to be able to play another two good rounds.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT