RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 5, 2018
Pornanong Phatlum
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you explain how you're feeling right now?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: Yeah, I didn't hit that good on the back nine but still happy.
Q. It was such a great battle between you and Georgia.  It must have been so mentally tiring?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: Well, she played so amazing today, everything is perfect.  Yeah, she is from here and everyone rooting for her.  I'm so happy she win.
Q. Were you able to take some of the lift from the crowds and the experience of playing in front of them?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: Yeah, I got a lot of experience, and just very nervous today, more nervous.  Yeah, it's going to be big experience for me.
Q. You played so superbly all week.  You must be able to take huge confidence and look back on this week with great pride?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: Yeah, more confidence after this week, but I will fix my swing a little bit.
Q. Can you just sum up your feelings about the final round and how it went?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: Very happy today and yeah, I try my best and she, Georgia, play very good and so amazing.  Yeah, just try to play my best and I'm very happy for today.
Q. Is it any easier when the player you've played against plays that well?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: Well, just, yeah, she like good play, good player and she play very good, and just didn't think about anything, just try my best.
Q. You played such exceptional golf this weekend.  You must be feeling disappointed but what are the emotions?  Is it that you played really well and got so close?  Is it frustration?  How do you feel?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: I feel pretty good, like with my score today.  Yeah, I tried my best and didn't play good on the back nine but still feeling good with the score today.
Q. It was a very impressive battle between you and Georgia.  You were both playing so well.  What did it feel like out there?  Did it feel like you had to keep pushing?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: If she play very well today -- if I just try my best.  Yeah, she putting good, everything's perfect.  Just didn't think about anything.  Just play my game and focus.
Q. What was it like to have all the Thai players around the green to congratulate you?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: I feel pretty great.  Yeah, they all come and support me, many holes, yeah, just cheer for me.  Really happy to see them.
Q. Did you have people reach out to you before the round and wish you good luck before today?
PORNANONG PHATLUM: Yeah, a lot of like Thai family, and, yeah, Thai friend and everyone just like support me and say like good luck, do your best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT