DUKE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 15, 2018
Jack Wohlabaugh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Duke - 40, Baylor - 27   
 Q.  I know you guys were working a lot on the second team with Harris.  Talk about your relationship with him that you had through practice?  
JACK WOHLABAUGH: Quen always has carried himself like a starter.  So when his number was called, it was really no surprise how he was going to handle it.  We all knew that.  As for me and Quen, throughout camp, he's working with the twos, I'm working with the twos, so we really know each other and correct each other's wrongs.  So we work together really well.   
 Q.  It looked like especially in the first half you really kind of ran the ball at will.  Did you feel good about what you were able to do out there?  
JACK WOHLABAUGH: Yeah, it felt great in the first half, you know, coming out to a 23-point lead.  23-0, that felt great.  We've just got to work on coming out strong the second half.  Had a little mess up, but we brought it back, so...   
 Q.  Is it kind of natural to let down a little bit?  You're on the road, you're up 23-0, you're probably feeling pretty good about things.  Is it kind of natural to let down then?  
JACK WOHLABAUGH: I don't know if natural's the right word.  But you have to have that mindset that games not over.  You have to keep pounding it in on them and keep going.   
 Q.  You have that relationship with Quen.  Talk about you've seen him a lot throughout practice.  What did you see from him today on the field?  And where do you think the ceiling is?  
JACK WOHLABAUGH: I thought Quen really proved himself today.  I thought he proved that he could be the starting quarterback with all the decisions he made.  The plays were really like -- the play might break down, but he makes a quick five-yard gain.  He really proved himself as a starter, I think.   
 Q.  You guys went three-and-out on your first three possessions in the second half, and then they blocked the punt, score, it's a two-possession game.  Crowd's coming back into it, and then you guys go 75 yards and score.  How big of a drive was that for you guys?  
JACK WOHLABAUGH: Yeah, that was big time.  We were talking on the sideline that we really had to get moving.  Last week we started a little slow in the second half against Northwestern, so we knew that was a bit of a threat to us.  So coming out with that long drive got us feeling good.  Took away the momentum from Baylor, so that was really important.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT