CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: MIAMI VS WISCONSIN
December 27, 2017
Trent Harris
Chad Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Trent, what was yesterday like just getting to have a bowl practice on-site but still in South Florida?  How has that felt this week?  
TRENT HARRIS: It's about 20 minutes down the road.  It doesn't really feel like Miami.  It's a little different.  On vacation a little bit.  But it's great to be back with the guys on the field and just all the energy, getting ready for the game.   
 Q.  Does it feel different?  Does it feel like a bowl week?  
TRENT HARRIS: Yeah, it definitely feels like a bowl week.  Being anywhere away from the facility is different, but we're just excited to play in front of our home crowd, so it should be fun.   
 Q.  Chad, you had the little break for the holidays and then you're able to get back out there yesterday.  Does it feel different, or does it just kind of feel like another game in South Florida?  
CHAD THOMAS: It feels a little different because we're in like Broward, so that's not Miami.   
 Q.  It does feel different as soon as you cross the county line?  
CHAD THOMAS: Yeah, I'm not used to that.  Yeah, it's another work week of practice.  We're getting back to it.  The break was nice, and now we're back to work, back in action.   
 Q.  You guys have had a little bit of a chance to study Wisconsin to see what it is that they do well.  Trent, what are you seeing and what kind of a challenge do they pose?  
TRENT HARRIS: I think everybody knows they like running the ball.  I think they're tougher and bigger than everybody, so come down here and just really try to run the ball down our throats, and we're not going to let that happen.  That's not how we play.  Just out-physical and out-play them.  They're going to come down here and do what they do, but we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  Chad, you've seen a little bit of film of Wisconsin; what have you seen?  
CHAD THOMAS: Yeah, I never really watched them on TV, but watching them on film you can tell they're a good team.  They're well-coached.  It's a team that they want to come and they want to show power, not much speed but power.  They're going to show it throughout the whole game, not just one part of the game.  I guess that's the game plan for them every game week.  So we're just coming in there to play football, and we've got to handle up.   
 Q.  What's the match-up when you look at speed versus power?  You guys have power, too, but everybody always thinks it's speed and power.  How does that match-up work out for you guys?  
CHAD THOMAS: We like it.  We done played a lot of powerful teams and they couldn't keep up with the speed.  It's hard to adjust to speed.  We can adjust the power because we go in the weight room just like them and we get ready just like them.  We're not a weak team.  We're probably a little smaller than them, but they've got to adjust to us.  Playing with power, we just go out there and be physical.  That's a part of the football game; if you don't be physical, you don't have a chance, so going out there and being physical, that's all we've got to do.   
 Q.  Trent, how do you see that match-up of speed versus power?  
TRENT HARRIS: I mean, Chad pretty much said it all.  They've got good athletes, we've got good athletes, but at the end of the day, it's hard to adjust to quickness.  It's not something you pick up overnight like that.  But like Chad said, we're going to adjust to the power, and we'll see how it plays out.   
 Q.  How much did Notre Dame help, because that was a team that was power, running, big offensive line.  You guys took care of business in that game.  How much experience maybe did that kind of help you even as you started getting ready for this?  
TRENT HARRIS: I mean, Coach Diaz did a good job with preparation for that game just like he's going to do for this game.  We just came out there ready to play and did what we had to do, and just held them down.   
 Q.  What about you, Chad?  
CHAD THOMAS: Trent said it, but just come in there like we've got a chip on our shoulder.  A lot of people, outsiders look as us like we're the smaller team and they're just going to come down here and run the ball on us and do what they want to do.  We've got a good game plan.  We've got great coaches, so we'll just go out there and do what we've got to do.   
 Q.  What happens when Coach Diaz has two, three weeks to prepare for a team.  When he's got some time to really get into an opponent, what do you guys see from your coach when he has that window of time?  
TRENT HARRIS: I see from him, he's got a short tolerance for us making mistakes because he done gave us all the answers to the test, so yesterday in practice I was telling him make it look easy because Coach gave us the answers to the test because he studied it way more than us.  We feel like we study it a lot, but it's not compared to how our coaches study.  He's just telling us what we need to look for, telling us everything we need to do, so we just go out there on the field and do it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT