DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 25, 2013
Andreas Seppi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. SEPPI/P. Mathieu
  6‑3, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   There's no injuries?   Because of the delay, was there an injury that you had? 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   When? 

Q.   You have just given me the answer.   We thought that maybe because of the delay... 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah, yeah, I cut my finger coming out from the locker room.   I went to the doctor just to fix it. 

Q.   Something minor?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah.   Hopefully it's not important.

Q.   Well done on the breakthrough victory against Paul‑Henri Mathieu, Your first victory against him in four attempts.   What do you think you did well today or better from before?   What was the key?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah, I don't think it was so good match today.   It was also difficult conditions because sometimes, yeah, with the wind changing a lot, so was not easy.
Yeah, I just try today to play a little bit more solid or to keep the ball a little bit more in the center, not to play so many angles.
Yeah, I think I managed well to, you know, to win this match and, yeah, my first victory here, so good for me.

Q.   I think you fought off four break points in the first game on return.   You know, when you start a match off like that and his serve seems to set the ball, and it was, that must give you confidence throughout the match. 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah, sure.   To break me, it's always good to start a match like that.   Yeah, also during the match, every service game he played, I knew, I mean, I have a chance to break him. 
Yeah, there were a few breaks in the first set, two for me and one for him, I think, and then again in the second, we break again.   Yeah, I think it was also not so easy to serve today.   Yeah, there were a lot of chances also in the return games.

Q.   He had knee surgery and then took a long break to recover.   Do you feel like he's the same player like before?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Well, you know, I think when you're out more than a year it's always pretty tough to come back.
I think he had very good last season from no ranking to be again in the top 70, I think.   I think it's not easy.   So for sure I think he will improve or he can improve again and be higher in the ranking. 
Yeah, I wish him the best for the rest of the season.

Q.   You mentioned it's your first win here in the main draw.   Are you relieved? 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Relieved?   I don't know if it's relief or not.   Yeah, there are some tournaments where it's, you know, tougher to play sometimes. 
What I said, I always really like this tournament.   Yeah, I was saying to myself I have to come back until I win my first match, and, yeah, it happened today. 
For sure it's, you know, a good start here.   I felt also pretty comfortable.   So, yeah, maybe I can play a little bit better and do better in next match.

Q.   I think you meet either the winner of Rosol and Viola next.   Can you talk a little bit about your next matchup of those two players?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Actually, I didn't see the second round.   But, yeah, Rosol or Viola.   Yeah, Viola, I know him very well because we are practicing sometimes in Italy and he lives very close to my home.   We are good friends.   So it will be an interesting match.
And against Rosol I had, yeah, some tough fights also.   I think it's gonna be another good match for me to play.   Yeah, looking forward to it. 

Q.   You just celebrated your 29th birthday last week.   You achieved your best career ranking last month.   If we can call you a late bloomer, do you think that's reasonable? 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah.   I mean, I think also generally the age of the players is getting higher, you know.   There are no under‑20 players in the top 100.   I think it's going to be ‑‑it's getting more difficult also for younger players. 
But, yeah, for sure I have more experience now.   Maybe I know myself a little bit better on court and know what I need and, yeah, some players need more time.   Some players grow up earlier.
Yeah, hopefully, I mean, the best years are yet to come.   We will see. 

Q.   Do you feel your life maybe change a little bit after becoming a top‑20 player?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Well, I don't think so.   Maybe if I go top 10, then it will change a little bit, but top 20, not much.   As I said, for sure I'm a little bit more comfortable on the court and with myself.   So that's for sure.   But the rest is pretty much the same, I think.

Q.   Before you came in, we were discussing about how you are Italian but your mother language is German. 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah.

Q.   What's the official answer for that?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah.   Because I live in the north part of Italy, Bolzano, it's like 50 minutes from the Austrian border.   There are still like small places where people speak German.
Yeah, I'm from one of that, and the first actually first nine years I went to German school.   So, yeah, at home we always speak German with the parents.   That was my first language.   Then actually I learned Italian at school.   Also I'm Italian, and it's a little bit strange. 
Some people don't understand, but yeah, that's part of Italy, yeah, where it's more, I'd say, always more German than Italian. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT