AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2011
Andreas Seppi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. SEPPI/J. Tipsarevic
  7-6, 3-6, 5-3, Ret. 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How did you feel about Tipsarevic's complaints? Did you think the match would be stopped?  
 ANDREAS SEPPI: I think the beginning of the third -- well, it was a little too early to stop. He already ask after the second set, but we could play for sure for a little bit longer. Because two days before I played until 9:00 the doubles, and it was just 7:00, 7:30, something like that. So I think for sure there was a little bit of space to play more.  
  
  Q. But you weren't worried yourself that with the drop of rain that made the surface slippery that you might have injured yourself?  
 ANDREAS SEPPI: No. I mean, after the -- when it starts to rain, for sure it was a little bit difficult to move, or I moved a little bit softer than before. But yeah, I thought when it start to rain maybe they stop the rally and we play tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You'd have been quite happy to play tomorrow?  
 ANDREAS SEPPI: No, I mean -- but for me was better to finish today, for sure.  
  
  Q. But you wouldn't have had any complaints?  
 ANDREAS SEPPI: No, no, because it was -- it was getting dark, and for sure the court was a little bit more slippery because it just rained for a few minutes.  
 But he went on the court immediately to start to play again, so, I mean, for me, was for sure better to finish today.  
  
  Q. Your first title?  
 ANDREAS SEPPI: Yeah. It's for sure a special moment for me. I didn't expect to win on grass my first title, but I really enjoy play on this surface. I had some good results also in the past, so I -- yeah, I'm happy, for sure.  
  
  Q. Now you're looking to take Wimbledon by storm?  
 ANDREAS SEPPI: (Smiling.) Yeah, for sure I try to recover in this two days hopefully I get off, because today I had two long matches, and then we see how it goes in Wimbledon.  
 But for sure I go there for a good feeling, and we try to get through my best as always.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT