AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2018
Andreas Seppi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. SEPPI/I. Karlovic
6-3, 7-6, 6-7, 6-7, 9-7
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You certainly looked delighted at the end.  How big a challenge is it playing Karlovic?
ANDREAS SEPPI: Yeah, of course it's always difficult.  I think today was more mentally than physically.  Yeah, I mean, in the end was a very long match.  Leading out two sets to love, then playing the fifth where you know there is no tiebreak, you know you have to break him, it is not easy.
There was, for sure, relief in the end.  And, yeah, I was very happy.
Q. What went through your head when you get into the tiebreaks with him?
ANDREAS SEPPI: Yeah, I played a very good first tiebreak.  I think I was always in the right corner when he was serving.  It was a very good tiebreak from my side.  Yeah, the second one was not so good.  I started more like with a double-fault.  I was always, like, behind.  Was not the best tiebreak.
Yeah, in the fourth set, in the end was one mini break.  In the end, you almost have some tension when you're serving because everything can happen.  Yeah, it was not easy playing these tiebreaks, but I managed anyway to win.  I'm very happy.
Q. You have such a good record here.  What is it about the Australian Open that suits you?
ANDREAS SEPPI: Of course, I mean, I like the conditions.  It's obvious after the off-season where I think I always do some good work, and physically I'm ready to play.  I think that's the most important thing for me.  Maybe that's why also I'm playing very good at the beginning of the year.
Q. What do you think about playing Kyle Edmund next?
ANDREAS SEPPI: Yes, he's a very tough opponent.  He can play some very fast tennis, especially with the forehand.  Yes, of course, he is very dangerous.  But I think it's another good match for me.  Yeah, hopefully I can play some other good tennis in the next round.
Q. You played once before.  What do you remember of that one?
ANDREAS SEPPI: Yes, I remember I played him once, but can't remember where exactly.
Q. Antwerp.
ANDREAS SEPPI: Antwerp, exactly, in the quarterfinal.  Yeah, so maybe I can take the revenge on Sunday.  Who knows.
Q. Is Kyle seen as one of the better up-and-coming players?
ANDREAS SEPPI: Yeah, sure, he's one of the best upcoming players.  He has a very powerful game.  I think for sure he can do well in the next years.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT