DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 27, 2016
Simone Bolelli
Andreas Seppi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BOLELLI-SEPPI/Lopez-Lopez   
6-2, 3-6, 14-12   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Congratulations.  It's your first title together, right?  
SIMONE BOLELLI: Yes, first tournament after I think a couple of years.  And I'm very happy because always win is good, and Dubai is very good tournament, a big tournament.  And we have Davis Cup also next week, so for our confidence it's very good to win a tournament like that.   
Thanks to Andreas to play with me this week.  I really enjoy.  I think we play day by day better.   
Today was very tight.  Super-tiebreaker was unbelievable.  We start 5-1 down.  Then we saved match point, we had a match point, but with the super-tiebreaker is always like this.   
 Q.  How did you turn the match?  What was the trigger?  
SIMONE BOLELLI: Well, 5-1 down we won a mini break, so 5-2, we did two serves and then we went 5-4 and the super-tie was even.   
 Q.  You changed tactics?  How did you do this?  
SIMONE BOLELLI: We tried to play aggressive.  We tried to play with the first serve.   
No, then I think we returned very good in the tiebreak in the last points.  Good win.   
 Q.  Andreas, you started the week with your birthday and you leave with the title.  Can you just talk about the week?  
ANDREAS SEPPI: Yeah, very good week for me.  Not in singles.  Maybe I played one of the worst matches this year, but actually it's good to win the title in doubles.  It's my first one.  I lost six finals, so to win finally a doubles title is always something special, and especially with a good friend, with Simone, even more.   
Yeah.  Of course I didn't expect to go so far in doubles, but yeah, that's always something special to do, I think.   
 Q.  Next week Davis Cup, Switzerland, without Fabio.  What are your thoughts going into that?  
ANDREAS SEPPI: Yeah, of course, Stan is not playing, Roger is not playing, and Fabio is also not playing.  Three good players --   
SIMONE BOLELLI: Me and Seppi not playing.  (Laughter.)   
ANDREAS SEPPI: Me and Simone are playing.   
Of course three big players aren't playing.  It's gonna be for sure a tough match, because we play indoor clay so we don't have so much time to maybe adapt to the surface, also.   
But of course to play home is always nice.  Hopefully it's gonna be a good crowd.  They're gonna support us.  Yeah, of course we want to win this title.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT