WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
Andreas Seppi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/A. Seppi
  6‑2, 6‑2, 1‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Interesting.   Talk us through the match. 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah, it was a difficult start.   For sure I didn't play my best tennis at the beginning.   I couldn't hit the ball, especially with the forehand how I want.   A lot of mistakes. 
So, yeah, it was pretty easy for Andy the first two sets.

Q.   Then the turn around, what happened? 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah, I think I started end of the second, yeah, I felt I hit the ball a little bit better, and played maybe a little bit more aggressive.   Andy, I don't know, yeah.   Maybe he relaxed a little bit after two sets to love.   Found a little bit in my game.   Yeah, won the third set.   And fourth set, I don't know.

Q.   A lot was made of your medical break on the television.   I don't know if you were aware.   People were saying, was it for real?   Did your leg really hurt? 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah, of course I didn't call the trainer like this.   I never call a trainer.   I felt something during the first game of the third set, and I just ask him, yeah, if the next changeover if he can call the physio.
And, yeah.   That's it.

Q.   Andy, he was saying nothing wrong, nothing wrong in the match.   Andy seemed a bit annoyed at that stage? 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Looks like, because he played ‑‑I won six games in a row.   Maybe then he used the same tactic after 1‑0 for me in the third.   Same tactic.   Then 6‑1 for him.

Q.   Momentum just changed again?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Eventually, yeah, he played two good games start of the fourth set when he was a break down.   I played a poor game on 2‑1, for sure.   Few mistakes there.   And then when he was up 4‑1, he, yeah, again pretty, you know, pumped and played some good tennis in the end.

Q.   It seemed at the end, did you say to Andy, How's your shoulder?   Is that right?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   No, I just said joking, like, Yeah, you used the same tactic than me when I called the physio.   We were joking.

Q.   You seemed happy.   Not happy to lose, but you seemed happy with each other.   You weren't angry?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah, the match is over, for sure.   Of course I was disappointed, but after the match, you know, it's like before, friends again. 

Q.   How are you feeling now with the injury?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   It's okay.   I can walk. 

Q.   What do you make of the way he's playing overall?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   I think he played very solid the first two sets.   I mean, as usual, you know, playing like he play a lot of balls and I think all his time was pretty good.   I didn't expect him to play also sometimes like a little bit more aggressive, and, yeah. 
I mean, you have to ask him maybe the same question.

Q.   On the question of the timeouts, do you think that a lot of players do use the timeouts wrongly to disrupt a player's rhythm?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   I don't know.   I hope not.   But I don't know.   I hope not. 
I mean, it's not in my case, but I don't think so. 

Q.   Do you think that in this match it was the timeouts that changed everything both times?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   I don't know.   I mean, if you look at the score, yeah.   But, I mean, I don't know.   When I called the physio, I think Andy played a poor service game there.   And then I played better, and he lost a little bit of rhythm, I think. 
But after when he called, I think, it was not much the same.   I felt pretty comfortable.   I think just played one bad game.   And then he, yeah, he played again a little bit better and won the set. 
So was strange, yeah, strange.   Because I won six games in a row and he won six.   It was a little bit strange, yeah.

Q.   What was your injury? 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   No, I felt like in the beginning of the third set was, I don't know, the ankle a little bit was hurting.   And I felt like all the muscle was pretty tight getting up to the knee.   So I put some hot cream, and I felt, yeah, felt much better after.

Q.   Physio are genius?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Looks like, yeah.   If he touch you, you can't lose anymore.

Q.   Fantastic. 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT