DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 24, 2014
Andreas Seppi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. SEPPI/F. Mayer
  4‑6, 6‑1, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Just a great comeback in the third set there.   You must be delighted to be through, a tough game against Florian. 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah, sure.   I mean, 4‑1 down in the third, and I just try to keep fighting and didn't have so many matches under my belt this year, so, yeah, I just try to stay in the match and he gave me some chances to come back.   I think 4‑3 I played a few good games, a little bit more aggressive.
For sure was important win for me.

Q.   You're playing GB in Davis Cup and you have chosen obviously clay.   I wonder if you think that was the right choice, given that GB beat the USA on clay to get to the quarterfinals. 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah, I think so.   I mean, you know, we have the best player playing very well on clay, who is Fabio, for sure, and he had some very good results on clay last month, also last year. 
I think I can adapt pretty well on clay, also.   Also, the other players, including Volandri, Bolelli, they all play better on clay, so I think for sure for us is the best surface and maybe for them also not the best.
So I think it's, you know, the right surface to choose.

Q.   What could the GB team expect in Naples?   What would you expect the atmosphere to be like?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Well, it's always a great atmosphere, especially in south of Italy.   You know, the people are pretty exciting, but obviously I think pretty fair, you know. 
So we played there in the same place two years ago when we played Chile to stay in the World Group and was a very nice match, I mean, very nice atmosphere, also. 
So I think it's going to be for sure a great event.   The court is also on the sea, so for sure the event I think it's very beautiful.

Q.   Kohlschreiber possibly next.   Could be tough.   8th seed here, I think, 7th. 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Yeah, we always have some tough matches.   The last one was last year in Paris Bercy, lost 6‑4 in the third.   I know it can be for sure interesting match.
But he still has to win the first match, has a tough opponent for sure.   We will see after his match.

Q.   You're one of many 30‑year‑old players in the draw here. 
ANDREAS SEPPI:   Just two days, huh?   (Smiling.)   Just two days. 

Q.   I'm trying not to be rude (laughter).   What is it about the tour at the moment that so many‑‑ I mean, you've got Tommy Haas, I mean, looking at the Germans alone, Tommy Haas, 35, reaching top 12.   Has the game changed?   Is it the tour that's changed?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   I don't know if I can get until 35, but I will try (smiling).
Yeah, I think for sure it has changed.   If you just look at the ranking how many, you know, young players are in top 100 or how many under 20 years, top 100, I don't know if there is one or not, but I think it's much more, you know, physically, and I think the players, you know, pay more attention, you know, to the health, to stay well.
So I think it's, you know, very difficult for younger players to, you know, to break into the rankings, you know, especially maybe top 50 or whatever.
I think that's the most difficult, you know, point. 

Q.   Talking about the rankings, you had your highest position last January.   Do you think you can be back into the top 20 in the coming months?
ANDREAS SEPPI:   I try.   For sure it's not easy, you know.   I didn't have so good start this year.   But important thing, you know, is to keep working, to try to stay as fit as possible.   And if you look, a lot of players, you know, after 30 they get their best position in the rankings.
So why not?   I mean, if you stay healthy and can play some good tennis, there is always a chance, I think. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT