CFP NATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
January 6, 2018
Nick Chubb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
NICK CHUBB: Just doing what you're asked to do, not being negative, not doing any bad actions I feel like.   
 Q.  Changed in college --  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, I think so, just doing what you've been taught to do and no kind of outside actions.  Just being respectful.   
 Q.  What do you think of camp?  
NICK CHUBB: The same for me but I've been disciplined I feel like it.  Hasn't changed at all for me.   
Two years ago, we all wanted to get here.  Feel like it was a good change and everybody kind of bought into what he's brought to us and it definitely paid off for us.   
 Q.  Big difference?  
NICK CHUBB: They are to great coaches, not really a big difference.  It's just kind of how our minds have changed as players, our mental aspect of the game has changed.  We want to go out there and practice.  It's definitely team-led, leadership-led team.   
 Q.  When you and Lorenzo decided to come back, what -- how did that impact?  
NICK CHUBB: It just changed the guys mindset knowing we really care for this team and university and we want to play and win games and nothing else really matters but playing for this team.  Just kind of brought everyone together.   
 Q.  How much did you get to enjoy Monday night's football when you were totally focused on the job at hand?  
NICK CHUBB: I think we enjoyed it on the flight back.  That's all.  We got to get back to work.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: It hasn't changed much.  Got to take advantage of every opportunity because I know in a while, those guys coming here.  My brother, man, he's a very good friend of mine.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: I know of him because we both came to Georgia early in our high school years.  I met him for the first time at the U.S. Army game.  I mean, we didn't really know each other so we just spoke to each other.  I knew I'd get a better chance to meet him when we got here.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: We just been through so much together just from coming in as freshmen and playing in the games and going through all the changes together.  So we are just very close now.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Well, it's crazy because we're on the same page, even though we didn't know.  We kind of think about it separately about coming back.  I think he came out and told me that he was thinking about coming back.  I told him I was feeling the same way so that made it easier for us to go ahead and commit coming back.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: We told them separately.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: He was excited.  He started to go ahead and make plans about how he made his team better.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: It means a lot.  For me, it's only being great friends and just being here together, we definitely enjoy it.  We work for -- we work so hard for it and it's definitely paying off for both of us.   
 Q.  What's he like as a player?  
NICK CHUBB: He's fun.  He's respectful, he's clean.  You couldn't ask for a better roommate.  I'm pretty dirty, so you can't have two dirty guys.   
 Q.  How long?  
NICK CHUBB: Two years.   
 Q.  What does it mean having --  
NICK CHUBB: It means a lot.  Definitely be the icing on top of the cake.  Just finish the season off with a championship win because we have done so much good things this year.  You couldn't ask for a better finish.   
 Q.  Can you sense the magic and specialness with the coaches and the players as the fans and the alumni feel about this team this year?  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, I mean, we all feel good about what we've done so far but none of that can help us win this game.  We've got to stay focused and get ready to win this game.   
 Q.  A lot of guys leave early, what experience -- in your decision to stay?  
NICK CHUBB: I just let them know, if you want to leave early, you can, if you have personal reasons behind that.  But if you're questioning it, you might want to stay and be with your teammates and have a chance to play for something special like we are.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
 Q.  Obviously it was a shootout -- you've won games a lot of different ways this year.  What kind of difference do you expect going against a team that looks like you?  
NICK CHUBB: I thought Oklahoma was a great, great team, too.  So we're playing good teams back-to-back weeks.  It's different every week.  We've got to execute.  It comes down to us and how much we want to execute and play harder physical.  Not really much about anyone else.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Well, obviously our coach is from there so he's very familiar with them.  I can see the similarities but we're two different teams.  I know one thing, we both go out there and play hard for each other.  It's going to be a great game.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: We'll see.  I can't tell you how it will go but I know we're ready and prepared.   
 Q.  What kind of challenges --  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, they are definitely tough and they are probably one of the greatest teams I ever played against two years ago was Alabama, I still remember that.  It's hard to run the ball on them but we're going to have to run the ball.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: We couldn't move them.  They did a great job of coming off blocks and shedding blocks and I expect the same thing in this game.  They are a great defense.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: It means a lot.  Hard work definitely pays off and through the ups and downs, you just stay grounded and fight through it all.  Things like this will happen, special things.   
 Q.  It's a very short week, but being at home, how much does that help --  
NICK CHUBB: It helps a lot just being close to home, because we have to go back and practice or do some things.  It's just easier to be closer.  It hasn't been bad at all.  We got home Tuesday morning.  We got a lot of rest.  We're ready to go.   
 Q.  Food and dining in Atlanta, what do you love best --  
NICK CHUBB: It's been great.  You know, it's always available for us and a lot of different foods every day, different days.   
 Q.  What's the best meal they serve?  
NICK CHUBB: I like when they have a taco bar.   
 Q.  What's the restaurants you're going to miss most in Athens?  
NICK CHUBB: Grind house.   
 Q.  What's the best meal your mom made growing up?  
NICK CHUBB: She made a lot of different things -- chicken alfredo.   
 Q.  That's not part of training.  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, too many carbs.   
 Q.  How careful are you about your diet during the season  
NICK CHUBB: Not really.  I don't know.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: It's an historic season I feel like.  The Rose Bowl was fun, we had a good game but that's in the past.  We are just looking forward to having maybe another great game this week.   
 Q.  Can you talk a little about Jake?  What has he meant for this team?  
NICK CHUBB: He's definitely meant a lot.  He's come in and held everything so well.  He's definitely mature and a great leader for us.  We needed him the most in that game he came up and made the plays we needed him to make.  We couldn't ask for a better kid.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: That's hard to say.  You can't really draw up a play or a certain scheme that's going to work.  You have to go out there and fight them and out-physical them which is very hard because they are a tough team.  It comes down to what's in their heart as an offense.   
 Q.  What did you learn from Auburn --  
NICK CHUBB: We learned the next time we played them I guess.  We had a good grip of what they were going to do but this is a different team.   
 Q.  What would it mean --  
NICK CHUBB: It would mean a lot, definitely, go out with a bang.  Definitely be the great ending of not only my story but a lot of these guys story here at Georgia.  Just through all the change and adversity to go out with a title would mean a lot.   
 Q.  How rewarding is it --  
NICK CHUBB: Very rewarding, here playing for a National Championship now, I would have missed on all these great things and I'm just so blessed that someone spoke to me and told me to come back.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: It's been fun.  He's definitely a close friend of mine and just to go out there and competing, have fun with someone that's really close to them, you couldn't ask for a better situation.   
 Q.  Did you guys ever do a sprint together?  
NICK CHUBB: No, we just talk about it -- see who was faster.   
 Q.  How good is it --  
NICK CHUBB: It's great.  I know take that physical beatdown every game especially against tough teams like Alabama.   We get to go out there and share the load and have fun doing it.   
 Q.  Are you competitive at all?  
NICK CHUBB: It's more of a friendly competition.  It's not really like getting a heated argument about who is better or what.  You go out there and make a play, I'm going to go out there and make apply, another play, so we can kind of compete and go at it.   
 Q.  Do you bowl?  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, we bowl.  It's more of an off-season thing.  That's probably more competitive than football, yeah.   
 Q.  Last week, was that a competition -- can you do better than you did in the Rose Bowl, coming out of a big game like that, is the pressure or competition --  
NICK CHUBB: You don't look at it like that.  You take it game-by-game.  Every game is different, and Alabama is a different defense than Oklahoma, I can tell you that.  It will be tough but we hope so.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Not really.  Definitely different than what I'm used to in the past.  But I've gotten used to it this year.   
 Q.  How much different --  
NICK CHUBB: You don't really do it.  You just let it happen.  When I have a chance to run the ball, I have to take advantage of it -- do the same thing, you share the load so you're not getting as many carries.   
 Q.  On the sideline --  
NICK CHUBB: No, we winning games.  That's all that matter.   
 Q.  What's the thing you learned --  
NICK CHUBB: I don't know, man, he is who says.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: He had a lot of good songs but I like the whole album, the humble hustle (ph).   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
 Q.  What's this moment like for you?  
NICK CHUBB: It's special, coming back my senior year and having an opportunity to play in a big game.   
 Q.  How would you describe how Coach Smart has impacted this program and in what ways?  
NICK CHUBB: He brought the intensity.  Leadership, just kind of took -- after that, kind of got these guys going and got them going to practice.   
 Q.  When you're hanging out with DeAndre, what's that conversation like between you guys about the impact you want to have as a collective unit?  
NICK CHUBB: We held ourselves to a certain standard and we know this offense isn't moving without us, so we go out there and give it our all every single day.   
 Q.  What do you remember about that game?  
NICK CHUBB: I remember losing.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: It feels good, just coming a long way with Sonny.  We feel better now than we have in a while, so hopefully we can match up better than last time.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Just the intensity of it, he brings it every day and he challenges us to be there with him and match his intensity.  He's pumped every day.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Not really.  Feels like a normal game, a normal situation.  Hopefully that's a good thing.   
 Q.  You've already had a game once in this stadium --  
NICK CHUBB: It's a different game.   
 Q.  What's the challenge --  
NICK CHUBB: They are big and fast and they play extremely hard.  It's hard to do things on them.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, I think about them already -- just go ahead and play.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: What do you mean?   
 Q.  More distractions?  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, as we say, keep the main thing the main thing.  I don't pay attention to anything outside of the game, so not really a distraction for me.   
 Q.  Do you like having the week off better or the month off?  
NICK CHUBB: I like having the week off because we go and get things rolling, not sit around and get rusty.  Just kind of go ahead and get it out of the way.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: That's tough.  Probably a little bit of both.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: They were.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: No.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Probably power, strength, because there's a lot of big, strong defenses out, you've got to break up with tackles.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Probably a couple times.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Not at all.   
 Q.  What about it gives you angst?  
NICK CHUBB: People just repeating the same question over again.   
 Q.  I'll try not to.  I was looking back at our archive, June 13, you made the announcement --  
NICK CHUBB: I remember that.   
 Q.  Does that seem like a long time?  
NICK CHUBB: It does, very long time.   
 Q.  What do you remember about that day?  
NICK CHUBB: I just remember committing to the school.  I'm here now.  It was definitely a special moment and it led to all of this.   
 Q.  Do you remember what happened --  
NICK CHUBB: I remember.  Alabama Georgia sacked Carolina -- Auburn -- Alabama on my mind right now.   
 Q.  Did that affect your decision?  
NICK CHUBB: Not at all.   
 Q.  You've had some lows, too.  
NICK CHUBB: Greatest thing is just being in a relationship with this team, my team, just kind these guys to be my brother and very close to all of them and just camaraderie.  Couldn't ask for a more special thing.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you, your teammates, to pass this on?  
NICK CHUBB: Sorry, I didn't hear you.   
 Q.  What does it mean for you, your teammates, passing it down, what you guys have accomplished?  
NICK CHUBB: It means a lot.  Hopefully these guys know that they know how hard to work to get here and they can apply every year and hopefully keep winning games.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Just thank you for Bulldog Nation for coming out here and supporting us and see you out here in Atlanta.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: This season I haven't had much time to go back.  I like to go back over spring break.  I've went back every spring break since I've been in college.  I got to go back before we left for the Bowl game.   
 Q.  How much does home mean to you?  
NICK CHUBB: It means a lot.  I'm a big believer in it.  I am the way I am because of Cedartown.  It's a special place to me.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Not much.  Definitely the guy you see on TV, that's him.  He's a very fast and physical guy.  He can make any play on the field and he's a special kid.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: I remember losing.  That's all I remember.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Well, I mean, we hope so.  We definitely worked for it and all the guys kind of bought in and what Coach Smart brought to us.  We hope to be here.  He's been here a couple times, way more than any of us so we believed in what he said and now we're here.   
 Q.  Do you see that yourself -- you're the oldest of the leaders and do you also see the impact of your teammates leadership has made this year?  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, I do.   
 Q.  The game itself here, what specific challenges do you look at?  
NICK CHUBB: Just execute.  Just go out here and play our game and not let them dictate what we can do.  We have to just be -- try and be more physical than them.  They are a very physical bunch, so it will be a challenge for us, but we are up for it.   
 Q.  Does it seem like it's going to be a more physical challenge than Oklahoma?  
NICK CHUBB: I'm not thinking about Oklahoma.  They are a different team.   
 Q.  The last four years --  
NICK CHUBB: I've got a lot of different memories, man.  Just a lot of different things.  A lot of great things has happened in my career here at Georgia and I'm so proud of, and I'm looking forward to having the greatest memory of them all on Monday.   
 Q.  How much was the transition with Coach Smart -- could you tell last year --  
NICK CHUBB: I mean, yeah, it was hard and it's crazy because we had the same exact team as we had last year and now we're in a whole different situation.  I think it's just the biggest thing was just getting our minds right and kind of knowing how to win.   
 Q.  A lot of folks see you and Sonny side-by-side, what's your relationship with him been like from your perspective?  
NICK CHUBB: That's my brother, man.  We're very close, roommates.  Got about two years now with me.  Obviously running backs, so we see each other in meetings and practice and we do drills together.  We're very close.   
 Q.  What kind of roommate is he?  
NICK CHUBB: He's a good roommate.   
 Q.  Who is the messy one?  
NICK CHUBB: That's probably me.  He's pretty neat.   
 Q.  Who cooks?  
NICK CHUBB: We don't cook.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: He enjoyed it.  It's definitely a lot quieter than he's used to.  Not much light pollution.  It's different.  You can see stars.  Different from where he's from.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: He hasn't got me there.  I need to go.  I planned on going this year but we decided to go to the National Championship, so I missed out on that.   
 Q.  This is probably your last game together before you go separate ways next season.  How much are you thinking about that?  
NICK CHUBB: Not really thinking about it much.  We both know it's coming and it will definitely be different for us, finally go our separate ways after being here for four years together, doing everything together.  It will be different but life goes on I guess.   
 Q.  Would you like to play with him again?  
NICK CHUBB: That would be fun but I don't think that's going to happen.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Meant everything to me.  Definitely a special place to me in my heart forever.  Even though we're going separate ways, I always feel like I belong here at Georgia.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Just believing in ourselves.  You know, just knowing that we have all the talent in the world and we just apply it every game.  We can have a successful continue and this year we definitely believe in ourselves.   
 Q.  Is there anything tangible that changed?  
NICK CHUBB: Not really.  It's just all the same stuff.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Just focus on bigger things.  That game is behind us and now it really means nothing to us.  It was a great team win but I know I'm ready to move on to play this next opponent and just focusing on that kind of bottles everything up and puts it behind us.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Not really, I think the coach did a good job of giving us time off when we got back.  Tuesday morning we got time off to readjust and reset, and that worked out for me and hopefully the whole team, too.   
 Q.  What have you seen on the defensive front?  
NICK CHUBB: I mean, they are very big and powerful.  Definitely very physical.  But we've got to just go there and play a good game.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Everyone firing on all cylinders.  Just play our perfect game to beat these guys.   
 Q.  How many guys still remember that --  
NICK CHUBB: I mean, I hope so.  Hopefully these guys remember going out there and embarrassing ourselves and not being able to run the ball at all and remember just losing the game.  I know I remember it, so hopefully the guys that were here remember it, also.   
 Q.  What do you remember most about that game?  
NICK CHUBB: The loss.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Growing up outside of Georgia -- my fourth grade teacher, Miss Foster, I mean, she was just a great woman.  Definitely someone I still look up to.  She taught me a lot as a kid and I mean, she was very special to me.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: I mean, I hope so.  I knew together we could do anything we wanted to.  We are both pretty good running backs.  Knowing he was coming back, I was coming back, definitely made it a lot easier to commit and say, let's come back, let's do it.  One more shot.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Because we push each other I feel like.  He pushes me.  I push him.  We know together, we can do a lot of things.  Just hold each other accountable, like if he doesn't do some things well, I have to call him out on it, and same for me.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Just get some momentum.  Got to try to get some movement up front and as running backs, it's probably going to be really on us to kind of make something happen.  I mean, that's a great defense over there.   
 Q.  If you get the playaction going --  
NICK CHUBB: Pretty much everything going.  Not really one thing.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: No, I didn't, man.  I don't really like bringing up that situation because kind of have to get it away from his head and not ever think about it.  I mean, it worked out.   
 Q.  What will you do with your last couple of days with this team --  
NICK CHUBB: Just try to enjoy it.  Not really letting it stress me out, playing a big game.  But just kind of talk to my teammates more, kind of hang out with everybody and enjoy the last couple moments together.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Not really sunk in yet but I know that I'm thankful that I did come back and play on this great team and have a special season it's definitely made it more special to come back and play for a great team and a great game coming up.   
 Q.  Kirby Smart, how long did it take you as a team to realize this guy could change things?  
NICK CHUBB: It didn't take long at all.  Ever since he came in, he's been the same person and guys look up to him on the team.  We have so much respect for him and what he's brought to us.  We appreciate him very much.   
 Q.  Obviously a lot of attention on you guys -- we see Jake as a freshman, how do you guys see him?  
NICK CHUBB: We see him as our starting quarterback.  He's a kid who can make all the plays when you need him to and definitely very special.   
 Q.  Knowing that it is the National Championship --  
NICK CHUBB: Just taking it in.  Looking at it as a regular game I feel like, not really a National Championship.  We have to come out and execute and do what we've done the whole season and not make it bigger than what it is.   
 Q.  So what are some things that you're doing to make sure you're 100 percent coming in mentally and physically?  
NICK CHUBB: Watching a lot of film.  Understanding what kind of defense they are.  Taking care of my body.   
 Q.  What are some of the conversations that you and Sonny are having?  I know you have a great relationship with each other.  
NICK CHUBB: We just talking about we got to go out there and give it our all, our last chance to play together.  Got to make it special.   
 Q.  What's the legacy you want to leave?  
NICK CHUBB: Just a hard-working guy who is trying to play hard for his university.   
 Q.  Is it different having to go back and forth?  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah.   
 Q.  Everything you've been through, perfect way to go out with a National Championship?  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, that would be great.  Definitely a great opportunity for us.  Kind of showcase, put a great end on the season.   
 Q.  Look calm and cool, almost like, hey, let's get this over and with get to practice and get ready for the game.  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  You tired of all this?  
NICK CHUBB: Very.   
 Q.  Is that a combination of a Rose Bowl great game, long trip back, or is it just one of those things that, hey, I've seen the finish line, let's get to it?  
NICK CHUBB: Not really into that.  Just not really like media I guess.  Kind of just want to play, play with my teammates and get around all the hype or whatever.   
 Q.  Alabama, you have to figure at some point you're going to see them, why not play against Alabama for a National Championship?  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, I wouldn't want it any other way, knowing that we're going to play them guys, SEC or national championships.   
 Q.  You guys have been so physical running the football, nothing is going to change Monday night.  You know what's coming your way.  They know what's coming their way, too.  It's really the way it's supposed to be.  
NICK CHUBB: Agree, I agree.   
 Q.  What's the one thing about the Alabama defense that you've been really impressed about watch willing them on tape?  
NICK CHUBB: Their physicality.  Very tough.   
 Q.  I know you've had that conversation this week about, you've got to match it?  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah.   
 Q.  I know you're sick of tired of this.  Good luck Monday night.  
NICK CHUBB: Thank you.   
 Q.  What do you remember about the last game with them?  
NICK CHUBB: Losing.   
 Q.  What made them --  
NICK CHUBB: Obviously they are very good.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: We definitely have a lot of respect for them.  I mean, half our coaches came from there.  We definitely know what they are about.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: We've got to do a lot of things right against this team.  They are so disciplined.  They are very good.  It's going to take more than one-dimension anything.   
 Q.  Do you rely on your teammates --  
NICK CHUBB: It's like, what is it, Saturday right now, and the game is awhile away.  Not really got my adrenaline rushing yet.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Definitely envisioned it before, playing for a National Championship.  That's like every kid's dream and I'm here -- got to take advantage of it.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Talk about football, so a lot to talk about.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Not really, like a normal game.  Hopefully feel like a normal game, we're out there, nothing to be too over hyped about or too excited about.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: It's great but we're expecting them to have a great turnout, too.  It's kind of close to Alabama and here, so it will be a great game.   
 Q.  Glad you said you were going to come back --  
NICK CHUBB: Definitely.   
 Q.  What's your favorite thing at Chick-Fil-A?  
NICK CHUBB: I like the chicken sandwich, fries.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, those guys did a great job for us up front.  Getting a lot of movement, opening some holes and letting us do what we do after we hit the hole.   
 Q.  If you had a pet bulldog, what would you name him?  
NICK CHUBB: I'm not sure.  I haven't thought about it.   
 Q.  What do you see in Alabama -- what stands out?  
NICK CHUBB: They are a great team, very big and physical and they are definitely well-coached, very disciplined.  They play very hard.  That's what you expect from Alabama, any ways, a great team, and we're up for it.  We're up to the challenge.  It will be a great one.   
 Q.  When you see their running backs, do you and Sonny have a look --  
NICK CHUBB: I really don't watch offense but I know those guys, I know they definitely have a lot of great running backs, too.  They will be fun to watch.   
 Q.  What do you remember most about that game --  
NICK CHUBB: Losing.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: That was a totally different coaching staff.  Just a regular loss for us back then.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, didn't want to come -- but kind of have to.   
 Q.  You don't like to say a lot, but you understand --  
NICK CHUBB: I mean, it's part of it.  We didn't want to come back and be 7-5 again.  We wanted to come back and make something like it is now.   
 Q.  What's it like --  
NICK CHUBB: Special, special moment that definitely paid off for us to be playing in the National Championship Game, so it was worth it.   
 Q.  What was the main --  
NICK CHUBB: Win more games.   
 Q.  It may be human nature, but what about that game --  
NICK CHUBB: I don't really think about it -- happy birthday, Anne.   
I don't really think about it but put it in the past.  It was a good win but we had our fun.  It's time to move on to a bigger game.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Brian McClendon.  My freshman year.  He's the first one I heard say it.  But a lot of guys, Coach says it.  He said to avoid y'all's question.   
 Q.  Playing the five-second game, you get three seconds to answer a question, all right.  Coach Jennings was the best.  
NICK CHUBB: I'm not really good at it either.   
 Q.  If single, three celebrities you would date?  
NICK CHUBB: Rihanna, Demi Lovato, Beyonce.   
 Q.  Three things that scare you.  
NICK CHUBB: I don't fear anything.   
 Q.  Three Georgia Bulldogs in the NFL?  
NICK CHUBB: Gurley, Thomas Davis, and Matthew Stafford.   
 Q.  Playing in Atlanta, three famous downtown Atlanta attractions?  
NICK CHUBB: I'm not familiar with downtown Atlanta.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: It would mean a lot.  It would be a special moment for the university.   
 Q.  Inaudible.  
NICK CHUBB: Not really.  Alabama is loaded at every position and all those guys are great -- are great defensive guys.  We know no matter who is in, they are going to give their best shot -- he's really good but they are all pretty good.   
 Q.  What do you say to Sonny after --  
NICK CHUBB: I didn't say anything to him.   
 Q.  How does it feel with the game in your backyard?  
NICK CHUBB: It feels good to play in Georgia.  Played here before, so we're definitely used to the environment.   
 Q.  Feel pretty confident --  
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, we've got to execute and play hard, man, but other than that, same thing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT