ROSE BOWL GAME: GEORGIA VS OKLAHOMA
December 28, 2017
Nick Chubb
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. If you had a preference, would you go into a game not saying anything before?
NICK CHUBB: Before a game?
Q. As opposed to getting interviewed.
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, rather not talk, not have to do it.
Q. Have you gotten better at it as time has got a long?
NICK CHUBB: I think I've got better at it.  Come a long way from freshman year when I started doing it.  Had a lot of experience with it, I guess.
Q. You have a chance to be the best -- can you talk about your relationship with him and the last four years, playing with him and growing closer with him?
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, we've definitely come a long way -- duo in FBS right now, just be nice for both of us, come from two different places and be close and have a chance to do something special.
Q. What's your relationship with him now?
NICK CHUBB: Really close.
Q. Playing the same position --
NICK CHUBB: Well, we played both positions, so a lot more in practice.  So we see each other, got used to each other really quick.  Do a good job sharing it around.  It's all fun.
Q. Do you remember the first time you ever met him?  Obviously you were recruited together.
NICK CHUBB: First time we met was at the Army game.
Q. Do you remember having any first impressions?
NICK CHUBB: Not really.  Not that I can remember.  I know that's the first time we met but other than that,.
Q. You were a five-star recruit and he was a five-star recruit.  Was there any thought about, I don't want to go there helping him.
NICK CHUBB: Not really.  I think coming in as a five-star, you've got to think you're going to beat anybody out any ways.  You have to have that mentality that no matter who is there, you're going to play.  Bigger things to worry about.  I wasn't really much worried -- (Laughter).
Q. Inaudible.
NICK CHUBB: Just told us just keep working man, no matter what, through all the pain and adversity.  Keep working, keep your head up and keep striving.
Q. Do you have a set rotation or is it more of a feel?
NICK CHUBB: What do you mean?
Q. In terms of when you guys, who is going to play and when you're going to play.
NICK CHUBB: I think one thing we all know.
Q. How have you and Tony pushed each other?
NICK CHUBB: Just because I've seen him do good things.  I want to do great things.  Just compete with him.  It's a friendly competition.  Seeing him go out there and make the plays, I kind of feed off that energy and same way for him.  Just compete in a friendly way.
Q. Was there a moment you can point to where you're like, I can be not just a competitor but --
NICK CHUBB: I guess since the winning.  When we become close, you want to see him do good, not bad.  So when he's in the game, I cheer him on and want to make a big play.
Q. How often do you guys talk about reaching the Playoffs?
NICK CHUBB: In the off-season?  We talk about it.  Just work for it.  Don't really say it -- just kind of put the work in that leads to Playoffs.
Q. Inaudible.
NICK CHUBB: I don't think we have.
Q. Why do you think that is?
NICK CHUBB: Just going to take it day-by-day.  Obviously we're working towards it but you know, you don't speak of it because in your mind you don't want to get too far ahead.  Worry about today.
Q. Inaudible.
NICK CHUBB: I think a lot of it is Coach Smart, his coaching, changed our mindset.
Q. Did you --
NICK CHUBB: He came by yesterday.
Q. Where did you see him?
NICK CHUBB: Here in the hotel.
Q. He came by the hotel?  What did he have to say?
NICK CHUBB: It was cool.  He's just catching up with us.
Q. Inaudible.
NICK CHUBB: The L.A. game?  I'm not sure.  Sunday, we'll have a game the next day.
Q. What's the best part and the worst part -- some of the things --
NICK CHUBB: He's pretty chill.  I live with-say a, too.  We're all pretty chill.  Great roommates.  Nothing really bad.  The thing about Sonny, he plays music sometimes but other than that, it's not too bad.
Q. Plays loud sometimes?
NICK CHUBB: Plays loud but at the right times of the day.  Not early in the morning.  It's great.  It's not bad.
Q. Did you end up with the speeded with touchdown at Kentucky or did somebody beat your speed --
NICK CHUBB: As a team -- 22.7 -- D'Andre, we don't know what he ran because GPS doesn't work inside domes but I'm pretty sure he probably had 22 on that.
Q. When you watch Oklahoma on film, what stands out?
NICK CHUBB: They are very athletic, very fast, and they move around really well.  They all run to the ball.  I mean, you could just tell they love the game and they play very hard.
Q. You know, Georgia -- rushing back, historical and recent great running backs there, is that kind of what sold you on the program?
NICK CHUBB: I mean, I guess kind of just knowing the history of the running backs here but my mindset was coming here pretty much no matter what.  But the history, it is amazing.
Q. When you and Sony met at the All-Star Game, were you both committed to Georgia at that point?
NICK CHUBB: We were, yeah.
Q. What was that conversation like between two five-star players?
NICK CHUBB: Well, we didn't know each other that well.  We didn't talk much.  We just kind of spoke.  We weren't as close as we are now so we didn't talk much.
Q. Was that the beginning of the competition, playing in that game?
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, definitely in practice we kind of competed with each other.
Q. What is that like now?  What other things do you guys compete in, video games, basketball, anything like that?
NICK CHUBB: Not really, man.  We don't really play video games.  We don't do much.  We compete sitting on the couch chilling.
Q. What went through your mind --
NICK CHUBB: The first thought was just -- how severe was it -- knew it wasn't that bad because he actually got up.  But next thing is just like, what do we do next, who is up.  Obviously Jake Fromm, and story continues from there.
Q. How long did it take, at least in the back of your mind, we're going to a backup quarterback who is a freshman --
NICK CHUBB: Just the first play he came in, he just took control, yeah.  I mean, he came in throwing the ball well, making great passes, great checks.  He kind of came into all natural.
Q. In the off-season, he wasn't a great -- what capital does a freshman have coming in?
NICK CHUBB: I mean, when you're a quarterback, you kind of have a little more leeway than anybody.  I mean, he is a quarterback so he can kind of take control and say what he want, you know.
Q. Did you notice that?
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, I did.  He kind of said the right things, so it wasn't bad.
Q. The defensive coordinator, Mike Stoops, said he has not seen running backs --
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, I know, those guys are great running backs.
Q. Which one do you think --
NICK CHUBB: Probably Samajay (ph) I guess.  That's what you want me to say so I say it.
Q. What makes an effective linebacker?
NICK CHUBB: Probably the most impressive thing is that he can run with the running backs, Sony and the other guys, we go on a route and he can kind of match up very well -- some of the linebackers in the country.
Q. He originally was going to come out here --
NICK CHUBB: That's what we thought about coming out here, thinking we almost lost our award winner.  Almost didn't have him on our team.  We're happy he came.
Q. What's it like practicing against a guy like Roquan?
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, it's good.  He's very great.  He always gives us a great look.  We know we're going up against the best in the country, so it's a great look for us.
Q. I know you're here on business, but in L.A., is it all business?  Does any of that stuff interest you?
NICK CHUBB: We're having a great time out here enjoying ourselves but still focusing on the game at the same time.  It's nice out here.  I enjoy it.
Q. How do you learn to sort of compartmentalize like that, enjoy yourself a little bit?
NICK CHUBB: Just take it as you can.  I mean, I don't know.  Can't really soak it all up because you have a game coming up.  I enjoy and have fun but in the back of my mind, I know we have a big game ahead of us.
Q. What stands out to you about Roquan on and off the field?
NICK CHUBB: He's a great kid on the field but off the field, too.  Kind of quiet.  Once you get to know him, he'll speak up more.  He's amazing and very fast and athletic.  He can be pretty much anything you ask him to.
Q. Coming in being a starter -- gets hurt, things don't go the way you planned.  You can take that a couple different ways.  Seems like you decided to be a better time mate out of it, right?
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, I guess.
Q. How does he help --
NICK CHUBB: He had experience last year, so I mean, just give him some advice.
Q. How athletic is Isaiah?
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, man, amazing.  He's not the biggest or tallest but can do everything better than anybody else.  I never question his size.  The kid has heart.  He plays hard every game.  Without him it would be a totally different season.
Q. His reaction --
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, definitely.  We're very proud of him.  We're thankful that he's here.  Me and Sony are definitely proud of him.
Q. Do you make it a point, do you feel it's important to prop guys that come up?
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, definitely.  Keep those guys going because without them, I mean, we wouldn't have the success we've had this year.  Do a great job in practice, on the field, all the time.  I know me and Sony was out there to give him props, like you said.
Q. How much pride do you take in seeing what they have done this year when you factor in the criticism?
NICK CHUBB: You have to ignore all that stuff because we know we weren't the best in any areas last year.  Obviously took it to our heads to focus on everything.  Those guys work hard in the off-season and in spring and in camp.  Look at them now, they are doing great.
Q. Looking at the video yesterday, give us an analysis of your reaction of the drop.
NICK CHUBB: It was frightening.  Definitely.  You don't see it coming.  Just kind of stuck in this little elevator and he kind of going up and down.  It wasn't fun.
Q. So you'd rather take on an inside linebacker than that --
NICK CHUBB: It's close (Laughter).  I wasn't supposed to get on it.  You could see the video, he was enjoying it.
Q. What are your impressions of the OU defense?
NICK CHUBB: They are a great defense.  They play very hard.  They are very fast and athletic.  They are tough.  It's going to be a challenge.
Q. How would you compare them to some of the defenses you've faced, particularly in the SEC?
NICK CHUBB: So fast.  The team speed is so incredible.  They are super athletic.  They can cover down, strike downhill, do pretty much anything we have seen any SEC team this year do.  Be like another big game for us.
Q. How do you see them --
NICK CHUBB: I do.  They are physical.
Q. In terms of the -- I'm sure you hear the perception.  Do you feel like -- do you anticipate they are going to try to prove a point --
NICK CHUBB: Definitely the same thing like y'all are saying -- hearing that -- taking it as motivation and that's probably the best thing to do to get your team going.  Going to come out here and try to prove a point -- they can't be physical, I think they can be.
Q. Inaudible.
NICK CHUBB: I know they beat Coach Smart last time, so we're aware of that.
Q. Did he remind you guys of that?
NICK CHUBB: He said something about it.
Q. Where have they made the jump this year?
NICK CHUBB: A little bit of everything.  Got to work hard for it.
Q. Inaudible.
NICK CHUBB: Oh, yeah, we're real tight, me and Coach.
Q. How would you describe his style?
NICK CHUBB: He's definitely a great motivator.  He's definitely relaxed and calm at times but he can also erupt.  Those guys, the whole team, they respect him a lot.  They do everything he says.  When he gets on him, they take it in and understand they missed up but they really appreciate him coaching them.
Q. Is it a surprise?
NICK CHUBB: Sometimes.  He's so calm and chill, you can tell he's really serious when he gets mad.
Q. You're a Georgia guy.  Do you have anybody back home --
NICK CHUBB: I really don't ask people.  I haven't asked around who is coming or not.  I heard a lot of people are coming.
Q. How do you look at this program, in your last season, where it's at?  How do you look at it?
NICK CHUBB: I mean, Georgia always been like kind of -- we've been good, you know, but this year has definitely been a great year.  I think just it's just changing.  From now on -- hopefully, you never know.  It takes a lot, just the leadership on the team.  We've got a lot of young guys I think are great leaders.  From here on out, I hope Georgia will be a great team.
Q. Is there pride that you haven't played in a game like this since 2005 and you have the No. 1 recruiting class, all those different types of things.  Is there a pride that you're building a foundation?
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, definitely.
Q. What's made the difference?
NICK CHUBB: It's hard to pinpoint exactly one thing but I think definitely played a huge role.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT