BIG EAST CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 8, 2011
Jeremy Hazell
Jeff Robinson
Kevin Willard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. Jeremy when you hit that shot end of regulation did you think that would be a propel to the win? 
 JEREMY HAZELL: I thought it was going to be a momentum changer. Everybody was playing well, we just didn't get the stops at the end when we needed 'em. That's tough down the stretch when you're playing against a rivalry team you got to get stops and it was just tough, tough day. 

 Q. Jeremy can you take us through that shot, replay how it unfolded? The game tying shot? 
 JEREMY HAZELL: Great screen, great pass and I hit the shot and that's it. 

 Q. Coach, I know crazy games are harder to remember well when you lose 'em but what was it like to be part of this and part of that shoot-out toward the end and overtime and calls going each way? It was a great game for us to watch, what was it like for you to be part of it? 
 JEREMY HAZELL: It was a great game but the outcome for us wasn't what we wanted. We worked too hard for this, and we wanted the "W."
 COACH WILLARD: It was disappointing. 

 Q. Jeff, you had a rough day shooting. Did you feel like you were in rhythm? Can you explain it at all? 
 JEFF ROBINSON: I just went out there and played hard and I wasn't able to hit the shots that I normally hit but I tried to do other things to keep our team in the game and help us win. 

 Q. Did you feel like you guys had the momentum going into overtime? 
 JEFF ROBINSON: I felt like it was a momentum changer but just like any other game you've got to get defensive stops to win game and we wasn't able to do that and we lost the game and it was very disappointing. 

 Q. When Jordan fouls out and Eniel Polynice has to be the point guard did that change what you guys were able to do toward the end? Seemed like on that last play Eniel Polynice drives and got stripped and Jeremy was open on the wing. 
 COACH WILLARD: We had try to drive on them and gotten into the double bonus in overtime. He made a couple of poor decisions but he made good drives, just didn't make good decisions with it. 

 Q. Coach, the last two games shot selection has been pretty good, today not so much, can you talk about that? 
 COACH WILLARD: I didn't think the shot selection was terrible. I thought some guys who get open looks usually knock 'em down. Again, I thought Jeff's looks were good, he just didn't make 'em today. 
 I thought we had good looks, we just didn't make 'em. 

 Q. Kevin, in your eyes what was the difference in overtime? 
 COACH WILLARD: They got some stops, we didn't get some stops. 

 Q. This has been a trend throughout the year, even going back to Dayton, Richmond, you guys not being able to hold leads and end game scenarios not exactly working out the way you wanted. How frustrating is it to have this game in a spot and have the same thing happen? 
 COACH WILLARD: That's been our Achilles heel, and we missed free-throws when we had a chance to go up 4 and we were up 2 and missed 2 free-throws and just gettin' stops sometimes at the end of games really hurt us. I think our seniors gave us a lot, Jeremy and Jeff, Anali and all the guys that play for this University gave us a lot. So it is disappointing but these guys are going to go on to bright futures. Thank you. 
 THE MODERATOR: Seton Hall thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT