CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2019
Nicole Broch Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How much fun was that being a part of that pretty heated battle until the last four or five holes?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I had a lot of fun. I mean, Jin Young played amazing both yesterday and today. There is a reason she's world No. 1 for sure.   
I tried to hang in there, but she just took off.   
 Q.  Do you think you played well enough to win but you ran into the world's hottest golfer?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Probably. Yeah, I felt like I had a really good week shooting 21-under. I would take that on any course, I guess.   
Yeah, she just played amazing, no mistakes and putted really well. Yeah, she is just world No. 1.   
 Q.  Speaking of putting, you had a few putts slide by the cup early on. If those had gone in things might have been different.  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, definitely. I mean, I was not close so I wouldn't call them like birdie chances, but, yeah, I had some really good rolls that didn't drop in the beginning. If they would've dropped that would've changed everything, I guess.   
Yeah, I mean, I gave it my best, and, yeah, it was just not enough today.   
 Q.  I think you were third in Ottawa; is that right?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah.   
 Q.  So third there, and second here. I think those are your two best finishes on the LPGA Tour.  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, they are. Obviously I just like it. I feel like both the course in Ottawa and this week is suiting my game really well. I just seem to enjoy it here with all the people.   
I was a little nervous about playing with Brooke and her million fans today, but we got through it. I just enjoyed it out there.   
 Q.  Did you notice when she saved par on 9, did you maybe think that it was going to take something extraordinary to beat her?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: No, I mean, I knew going into today it was going to take something extraordinary to win this. Yesterday she played like -- she made no mistakes, so I knew I was going to have to play probably my best to beat her today.   
But, yeah, when she made that up and down I guess that was kind of -- and then she made birdie, birdie, and then, I mean, that was not it because I was still in it; couple behind with few to go.   
I mean, the way she's playing it was hard to get that much behind after like 11 holes.   
 Q.  Speaking of Brooke and her million fans, can you comment on your impression of what you see and sort of the pressure she's faced with here and how she handles it? Can you think of another tournament where a golfer has so many fans following just her?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: No, I mean, the way she handles herself is unbelievable. Hats off for that. I'm pretty sure I couldn't do it the way she is doing it, and the way she battled back yesterday was amazing. So hats to her. She's a really good player.   
Yeah, you can see that she wanted it today, too. But as I said, Jin Young was just playing too well to catch.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT