SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 18, 2017
Nicole Broch Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So what's it like waiting out this fun last couple days?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I mean, I luckily arrived like Sunday night.  So I played nine holes Monday in like really good weather.  I should maybe have played 18.
Yeah, yesterday was horrible and then today is, yeah, poor weather again.  It's very frustrating because like it's a nice course and it's my first time to Taiwan, so really nice to play 72 holes.  But we'll see if the course can handle it.
Q. How do you get through the frustration of sitting around?  It's an outdoor sport and we know this is what we get ourselves into, but how do you get yourself through these two days?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: You just have to deal with it.  I have a lot of good friends out here on Tour, so we are just trying to make the best out of it.  I'm just on my way to grab the cards so we can play cards in the players' lounge.
You've just got to stay patient and see what's going on.  I mean, you can't do anything to the weather, so it's just, yeah, dealing with it and have fun.
Q. About last night, have you ever been to a party that had a full orchestra before?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: No, I mean, it was very special.  Yeah, the food is what it is.  I mean, it's very, like -- but it was fun and the orchestra was playing really loud.  It was a good party.
I'm just hoping that we can at least get out there and play some golf during the week.
Q. I've been told the course drains really well.  We just need to give it the chance to drain.
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: We got that e-mail from Dan on Sunday that the course was really wet.  But when we were out here Monday, I know the weather was good, but I mean, to be honest, I was thinking it would be worse than it was.
So I think it's draining better than most courses.  But I mean, if it's going to rain like this all week, then it will be tough.  But fingers crossed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT