CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 26, 2017
Nicole Broch Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Solid round today, 66, 4-under on the back nine.  One little hiccup on the front nine, one bogey.  What do you attribute to this great play today?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Well, I mean, I've been driving the ball well all three days, today as well.  My ball striking with the irons has been -- I mean, I had eight bogeys the first two days.  So if it wasn't really good, it was like missed green and I didn't make them up and town.  Today I only had that one bogey on 7.  So today was just like less bogeys than the other days and the same amount of birdies, so, yeah.   
 Q.  It was a good day?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah.   
 Q.  How was it having Sophie Gustafson on the bag with all his experience?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: That's really cool.  It's our first week together.  But she's definitely a help out there.  We're just trying to kind of play our game for three holes and then we go three holes and starting a new game.  That's kind of kept me in the birdie moment and that kind of thing.  It's been really good so far.  I'm sure she will help me tomorrow.   
 Q.  10-under, how does it feel?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Good.  Yeah, the first two days I had eight bogeys together.  15 birdies today.  I had one bogey and six birdies.  So today was just kind of a little bit more solid.  Still a lot of good birdie opportunities.  Yeah, luckily less bogeys.   
Yeah, I'm playing really solid.  Even though I had a little bit of a cold part on the front nine, yeah, I still kept going.  And then 4-under on the back nine was really nice to finish off with.   
 Q.  You made bogey on 7 there.  Your hole was playing a little shorter.  You hit 3-wood today?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah.   
 Q.  Where did you get in trouble there?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Well, I hit 3-wood off the tee because I don't want to get too close to the green and then kind of pulled my second shot a little bit in the wind a little bit too far.  Then the wind is kind of swirling around.  It's kind of tough to figure out where it is sometimes.  Yeah, I just hit it over the green in the thick rough and then it was a hard chip to the short pin.  Hit a quite good par.   
But bounced back with a birdie on 8, so I kind of got rent on that hole the first two days which was nice.   
 Q.  Seeing that Brooke Henderson set a course record in the morning, did that tell you that it was gettable today, that you could have a good round?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: To be honest, I didn't know that.  I don't really look at scoreboards before I go out.  So I didn't know that.  I mean, I've made 21 birdies so far, so I know it's scorable.  If you just keep your focus off your card, and I did today.  So I know I can score low on this course.  If you kind of hit the fairways, then it's quite easy out there.   
 Q.  You went around the course with a modest gallery today.  It won't be that way tomorrow.  Are you ready for that?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, I mean, that will kind of be a new experience for me.  While I have Sophie there with me, so I'm sure she can kind of help me stick to the plan and keep me calm out there.  I mean, I won before on the LET, so, yeah, I'm ready.   
 Q.  How has Sophie helped you this week?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: She's a big help.  Obviously she has a lot of experience.  Yes, I mean, we're playing this game like three holes at a time, trying to make one, maybe two birdies in those three holes and give ourselves like set a goal to let's give ourselves two birdie chances inside three meters on the next three holes.  Yeah, that's really working for me, so it's really nice.   
 Q.  This your first week working with her?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, it is.   
 Q.  How did that pair up happen?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: She's kind of having a break from Beth Allen, and she texted me if I wanted her help.  I haven't really found a caddie this year that's got what I've looked for.  So I said, why not.  I mean, she has so much experience.  I mean, I think we quite look like each other when we're playing on the course.  So I think she has the temper I have too, and she knows how to handle it.  It's been really fun so far.   
 Q.  Do you think this is a one-week thing or might we see her down the road?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: No, she's doing next week too.  Yeah, she already booked a flight home for next week.  So my boyfriend is coming in two weeks and she'll be back at Evian.   
 Q.  How many birdie putts for short ones?  You had a lot in the last two days.  How many today were short ones as well?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: There were a few.  Like I had like a two-meter on the second.  Four meter on three.  Two meter on four, which I didn't get any of.  Then I missed less than a meter on 9 for birdie.  So I still had more chances.  I mean, I made a long one today which was really nice.  16 meters on 12.  So it was nice to get a long one in and see that I could do that too.   
 Q.  Is there a particular hole that you enjoy on this course?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I think there are a lot of good holes out here.  I mean, 14 is kind of challenging.  It's a tight fairway, but I hit driver, and if you hit a good driver there, well, I have a wedge in and it makes the hole a little bit easier.  But it's kind of a tight tee shot.  But, yeah, I mean, there's a lot of good holes here.  Today we moved up on a few par-5s so they were reachable too.  So, yeah, it's a really good course, I like it.   
 Q.  Same plan for tomorrow or more aggressive?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Same plan.  I mean, yeah I'll just try to do what I've done the first three days, especially like today, trying to keep those bogeys off my card.  Because I know I can make enough birdies to win.  It's just a matter if I can keep the bogeys off the cards.  So hopefully I can do that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT