OLYMPIC GAMES RIO 2016: GOLF
August 17, 2016
Nicole Broch Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. What a great start to the Olympic golf competition. How do you feel about the way you played?   
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Well, it was obviously a good day for me. I to the off with a good start, 3‑under through four, and holed some good putts, not really long, but some important putts to get into the flow. It was cool out there. I enjoyed my grouping, even though we were on the clock, like in the middle part of the round, which was a bit stressful.   
It was fun out there. I didn't really think about it as the Olympics. It was another round of golf, and yeah, tried to focus on my own things.   
   
 Q. So did you not feel any different going to the first tee this morning at all?   
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: To be honest, not really, but I mean, it was different waking up in the Olympic Village instead of in a single room at another hotel. But yeah, it's just been a really cool experience so far and I'm really enjoying my time down here.  
   
 Q. A lot of fans watching out there?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, I got my brother and my dad here, and we have a few others from the Danish Golf Union. Saw a few other Danish faces out there, and that's really nice to get support.  
   
 Q. Were you expecting it this morning? Were you expecting to play quite so well?   
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Well, I mean, my season so far has been a little bit up‑and‑down, and I've been struggling a little bit, but the last like two months has been good for me. I've worked hard to get in better shape. Today I managed to do my own things and focus on the things I need to do to play well. And yeah, I made a few putts.   
Yeah, that gets me to 4‑under. That was really nice, and I feel comfortable going into the next three days.   
   
 Q. And when you were put on the clock, does it change your routine a bit? Did you feel you guys were slow?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: We had a few situations on the front nine where we needed a referee or someone had a really tough shot where you obviously use a bit more than the 45 seconds. Then we just got, yeah, too much behind and got on the clock.   
I think three of us stressed, all of us, I'm pretty sure both me and Paula's bogey on 12 was because we were stressful, and that's just too bad, because we are at the Olympics. But we shouldn't be behind the clock. So hopefully we can keep up tomorrow and don't lose any shots because of stress.  
   
 Q. What did you find out about the course today that you didn't know during practice?   
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I'm not really sure that there's anything that surprised me, not really. I feel like my caddie has done a really good preparation walking around the few times without me, and we played two practice rounds, as well. I feel like we are good, prepared, and yeah, feel comfortable on the course.   
   
 Q. With as many top players from Korea, and with only four Koreans here due to the limitations, is that different, only having to face against four of them instead of a large contingent at a usual women's event?   
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Well, the field should have to be a like a little bit weaker than a major. But it's still a good field, and as you say, all the best are here, so it's still a good field.   
Yeah, I mean, if I win a tournament, then I don't care who is playing. So for me, it doesn't matter.   
   
 Q. If the weather stays like it does the rest of the week, do you think 13‑ or 15‑under will be a target score to win?   
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: If it stays like that, yeah. It's scorable. Depending on the pin positions, as well, because they can be quite tough. But yeah, if this weather stays, it will go low, yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT