THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 11, 2015
Nicole Broch Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Great second round here today, first-ever win last week, correct, on the let Tour, previous to that runner-up finish.  Why would you say you're playing so well right now?
NICOLE LARSEN: I mean, I had a good couple of months with my coach, working very well, and it seems like it's just coming together now, and it's like the perfect timing.
Q. So you played in the Ricoh Women's British Open, as well.  That was your first-ever major.  Did that prepare you to play so well here at the Evian Championship?
NICOLE LARSEN: I mean, it's definitely helping.  I'm used to playing around very good people and all the people that I normally play around, so yeah, it helps me.  I'm just trying to take this event like another event, not thinking about too much that it's a major.
Q. Let's talk about this course.  You're a long hitter, good ball-striking.  How does that suit you to play here?
NICOLE LARSEN: Obviously it's a good course to be a long hitter on.  There's some long holes and some holes where it's good to have a good long carry with your driver.  I feel nice on this course.  I played very good on the front nine, quite solid, hit a lot of greens and hit it close, didn't drop so many putts.  But I was 2-under through 9 with a good save on 18.  Then I struggled a little bit with my driver on the back nine.  But yeah, just kept it together and kept fighting.  It was nice.
Q. You had an eagle in there today, as well?
NICOLE LARSEN: No, I had an eagle chance on 13, a five-metre putt, but just slipped out, and then I finished with a birdie, so it was nice.
Q. The strength of this round has been your driving so far, and short game comes into play, as well, here, the putting.  How have you found that this week?
NICOLE LARSEN: I mean, it's good to be good with your driver on this course.  The putting is quite tough on these greens.  You just have to stay patient and let the putts drop if they drop, and if not, just take a two-putt, even four or five metres, because they can be tough.
Q. If you could talk us through the birdies you had today, the clubs you used.
NICOLE LARSEN: I had birdie on No. 10, my first hole.  I hit driver, grip 8 to like one metre.  Then I had birdie on 13, two-putt, obviously a good eagle chance, but safe birdie.  Then I had birdie on No. 3, hit like five feet, and then grip 8 to one metre again.
And then birdie on 6, 3-wood, 6-iron to like five metres.  And then on the last one, No. 9, driver, 5-wood in the bunker and then sand save, two-metre putt.
Q. Are you back off to the range or have you got other plans?
NICOLE LARSEN: I'm definitely going to the range, and on the putting green I'm going to practise a little bit, and then I think I'm going to cheer for the other Dane, Emily.
Q. Did you see parents in the crowd today following you?
NICOLE LARSEN: Yeah, Emily's parents were there, and my dad was arrived this morning with a friend, as well, so it's nice to have a few Danes here.
Q. You can see them in the crowd, as well?
NICOLE LARSEN: Yeah, I can see them, yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT