OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 12, 2014
Nicole Broch Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   I think if I make a good result this week, I can get closer to Sally, but I think Amy is too far.   But maybe I have a chance if I play well tomorrow.   So far, it's been a very good year for me.

Q.   Can you explain your round today, how that went out there today?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   I think it's the first time I hit 18 greens, and then I just, yeah, six putts in and rest two putts.   It was really nice.   I just enjoyed it with my caddie, Cecily, from Denmark, from the national team.   It was fun.

Q.   When you came into this event, did you have in your mind that if you play very well, that you could win the Rookie of the Year? 
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   Yeah, I think I will go for it any time.   I mean, if I played well, I can reach them.   That's my goal for tomorrow I think. 

Q.   Top two, if you finish top two, I think you go above their earnings for the year.   The way you've played today, that must give you confidence? 
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   Yeah, absolutely do. 

Q.   Sally was saying that your game is suited to this course; that you're quite a big hitter.   Is that the way it is, that it suits you, your game?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   Yeah, I think this course is really good to me.   They moved up some tee boxes today.   No.2, I could reach and No.17, I could reach, as well.   Yeah, it was a good setup for me today, as well. 
The other days, I didn't manage to play as well as I want to, but today was really good. 

Q.   Do you think the fact that you've come into this weekend with most of the attention being on Amy and Sally has enabled you to relax a little bit, coming under the radar, so to speak, and just play yourself?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   Yeah, I tried to just enjoy today, and I have some tournaments behind this season where I just focus on everything outside myself.   Today I just enjoyed being on the course and have fun out there.   It worked, so I'll try to do the same tomorrow. 

Q.   How much would the rookie prize mean to you?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   It would mean a lot.   It would be amazing to be called Rookie of the Year.

Q.   Sally was saying you were her target at the start of the season and for whatever reason, it's come between Amy and Sally.   Was there a time in the season where you were perhaps maybe a bit down on yourself or you thought, oh, God, I'm not going to be in this position on the final day? 
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   I don't think I was down on myself.   Amy played really well some weeks and had a good chance, and Sally the same.   I think it was just them playing better than me.   Yeah, I've tried to learn being in the top.   Yeah, it cost me some tournaments. 

Q.   Realistically, what do you think your chances are for Rookie?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   I hope to be No.2.   I think that would be realistic.

Q.   But then you've got to rely on the maths, Amy to fall slightly lower down?
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   Yeah, I think I'll need them to play bad tomorrow and I don't hope they do that.   I will just play my game and then we will see where it takes me.

Q.   Do you think that Amy, especially, perhaps, has shown signs, especially with the way she's been playing, of perhaps the pressure getting to her?   You obviously don't have that.   Do you think you've caught them off‑guard, as well?   Maybe they thought it was a two‑horse race and now you're here. 
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN:   Yeah, hopefully they will think that.   But they are good players, and especially Amy has shown she has the nerves to play well in pressure, so we'll see tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT