CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2019
Nicole Broch Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What is it about this place that suits you?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I don't know. I mean, I really like the course obviously. I don't know. Suits my game very well. I think it's a long hitters' course. I don't have a lot of mid-irons in. It's either wedges and 9-irons or like longer irons into some the par-5s, too. And all the par-5s are reachable for us.   
I don't know. It suits me really well. Yeah, I'm just trying to play as free as possible, and so far I've done really well. I'm really happy about how I managed myself out there today.   
 Q.  Did you feel like midway through there it was starting to get away? You made a couple mistakes but you were able to bring it back.  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, definitely had a couple quick swings that was a little off tempo there. But I don't know. I was just trying to hang in. I knew kind of what my swing thought to hit a little bit straighter should be.   
Then I made a really good putt on 12 to get the birdie on that par-5. Then hit a really good shot into 14 and eagled that one. That kind of settled me down a little bit. Got my momentum back.   
There are couple holes on the back nine that doesn't suit my eye very well, but I got through it. One more day to go now.   
 Q.  Did you feel any extra pressure playing with Ko? She's te No. 1 player in the world.  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, definitely woke up earlier than I normally do today. I mean, having the lead and playing with world No. 1 definitely put a little bit extra pressure and a little bit extra heartbeats in there.   
I mean, Jin Young played amazing golf today. From my perspective she probably only hit one bad shot, and that was her approach into 12. The rest was super solid.   
So, I mean, you got to play good golf to beat her, that's for sure.   
 Q.  Henderson mounted a really hard charge on the back nine. Did you have any awareness of that from the cheers or anything or seeing the leaderboard?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I definitely -- actually didn't look at the leaderboards that much today. I felt like me and Jin Young was having a good match out there and we both had it pretty well going.   
Yeah, we could definitely hear those roars coming in on the back nine. Every time they went a little bit louder than normal I felt like, yeah, you knew Brooke made a birdie.   
Yeah, I don't know what she's at. I saw she was off to a rough start but made a really good back nine, I guess.   
 Q.  What do you have to do tomorrow to pull away from Jin and Brooke?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Play really good golf. I don't know. I can't tell you a number. I mean, it's going to be a tough day tomorrow. You have to play really well to win this tournament.   
As I said yesterday, it's a really good field; all the best players in the world are here. Yeah, I mean, I feel like I'm ready to win. I feel like I handled myself really good today. Tomorrow is going to be another story.   
I'm really happy with how confident I felt out there today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT