CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 24, 2019
Nicole Broch Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66 on moving day. You're currently tied for the lead here in Canada. How would you describe the day?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: A lot more solid than the past few days actually. I still had a couple quick swings out there and that cost me a couple bad shots, but I felt like I was really good at committing to my shots. My putter was not on fire, but I made a couple good ones to stay in it and to follow up.   
 Q.  This is just the second time you've been in this position atop the leaderboard, also in Canada. We talked before. You didn't sleep too great last night. How were you feeling once you got out here today?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I felt better when I got out on the course. I felt pretty chilled when I arrived, and then as the tee time got closer I felt like my heartbeat was a little bit faster than normal. I just took some deep breaths and was reminding myself of what I planned with my coach. I felt like I did really well today. And, yeah, I'm proud of myself.   
 Q.  You played alongside Jin Young Ko who also went low today. Did you feel that as well?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Definitely, definitely. We both putted quite good, I would say. Yeah, as I said before, she probably only hit one bad shot today. I felt like she was just striping it and made some good long putts, too.   
Yeah, we definitely kept each other in it and it was super fun.   
 Q.  You're both tied for the lead heading into the weekend. Anything change for the final round?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: No. I've shot three 66s, so I don't know if I should change my game plan too much. No, I mean, staying patient again. I know I have to shoot a good number tomorrow. I'm up against world No. 1 and a lot of good players behind us.   
So, I mean, a good number is required. I'm up for the challenge.   
 Q.  Are you intimidated at all?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: A little bit, but I see myself as a good player as well. The last three days proved me right. I'm just going to do my best tomorrow and see if I can win it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT