CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 22, 2019
Nicole Broch Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  One back of the lead. How do you feel about the round? Must feel pretty good.  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, I mean, especially front nine, 5-under. I was playing pretty good. I was good at committing to my shots, and with the wind we played in I judged it really well. Took advantage of the par-5s.   
So, yeah, back nine I hit a couple like bad shots but recovered pretty well. Still hit a lot of fairways and greens, but maybe not as good ball striking.   
 Q.  When you were 5-under after the front nine, were you thinking, Hey, maybe this could be a career round or just play hole by hole?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: No, I actually didn't get that far ahead of myself today, which was pretty good, too. And even though I didn't get as many birdies as I probably would've liked to on the back nine, I stayed patient. I mean, I still had a couple chances out there. So, yeah, I'm really happy about my start.   
 Q.  Some of the players talked me and said that the back nine was the easier, chance to make more birdies. Are you finding that? A lot of people are doing well on the front nine it seems like.  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, I don't know. I feel like good opportunities on both nines. Obviously the front suited my a little bit better today. Yeah, there is good chances on the back nine, too.   
 Q.  So when you went into your late tee off time, did you know what the leaderboard looked like? Brooke Henderson set the standard this morning at minus 6. Did you see that at all?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: No, I did not.   
 Q.  None of the fans were saying, Don't get to minus 6 because you'll tie Brooke?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: No, I only checked a couple of my friends, how they were playing.   
 Q.  And finally, last question for you: It's been kind of an up and down year for you, third year on the tour. 15 tournaments; missed seventh cuts; made money in the other eight. How would you say the overall season has been for you this year?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, up and down is probably a good description. Yeah, I've been -- yeah, I mean, lately I've been playing a lot better. I've been enjoying playing golf a lot more. Enjoyed myself both on and off the course, which I struggled with a little bit in the beginning, but I kind of got over that.   
Then I made the weekend the last couple of events, I think, but then didn't play my best over the weekend. So now there is another focus. Yeah, I feel a lot better.   
 Q.  Did you feel that you had a 66, 6-under in you? I'm not saying this came out of nowhere, but that's a pretty solid round any time of the year.  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I played really good at the Scottish Open on that Friday where we played in horrible conditions.   
 Q.  Horrible conditions in Scotland?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I mean, I played -- I felt like I played really good and I was just, I mean, really annoyed that I missed it by one.   
But, yeah, I had a good feeling coming into this week and I just kind of, yeah, I know. I mean, I'm trying to play as free as possible the last four events and see if I can make it to Asia.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT