LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 20, 2019
Nicole Broch Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Super hot final round.  8-under.  Quite the comeback after yesterday's round.  What do you think was working so well for you today?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I mean, the biggest difference was how I felt like in my body and mentally.  I mean, I haven't been in that position I was in before yesterday for a while, and definitely affected me.  I just got in my own way out there.   
So I had a chat with my coach this morning and we decided I was going to go out there today and be a better, yeah, better way of myself.  I definitely did that.  So that was really nice, to shoot a career low on a Sunday in Hawaii.   
 Q.  You talked about having gone through some mental challenges and working on that side of your game.  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah.   
 Q.  You worked on the mental side.  Did it help you out on the golf course?  Did it translate?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I mean, yesterday was a struggle and I, yeah, to be honest, I lost it.  But coming back today and I was able like even in these windy conditions to stick to my plan a lot better than I did yesterday.   
Yeah, it feels really good to finish on a good note after I had two good first rounds and then kind of lost it yesterday.  To battle my way back a really nice feeling.   
 Q.  Yeah, bogey-free.  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah.   
 Q.  You have to be feeling pretty good.  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, I am.  Definitely.  I was hitting the ball really well today.  I holed some good putts but not long putts and I had more chances out there.  But like, I mean, making up and down from the bunker on 18 to get that finally 8-under was nice.   
 Q.  Are you going to L.A.?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Yeah, L.A. and San Fran, so definitely a better feeling than leaving after yesterday.  Yeah, I feel like my game is in a good place.  It's more like between my two ears it happens.  So, yeah, I'm feeling good.   
 Q.  What you focus on in the off-season?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I mean, we didn't do a lot of swing changes.  It was more about like rhythm and like commitment things.  The whole year last year I was hitting the ball well, but I just struggled the get to the ball in the hole.  As I did yesterday, I got manage my own way.   
Yeah, that's really been what I've been focusing on a lot.  Yeah, when I'm good mentally I feel like I can be out there and play the way I want to.   
 Q.  Who's your coach?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: David Dickmeiss is my coach, and we've been working for eight years I think.  He is the coach of Nanna, Emily, and (indiscernible) as well.   
 Q.  What have you learned about yourself this week?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I definitely learned that if I'm good to myself on the course and if I'm the person I want to be out there, then my golf game a good enough to compete out here.   
I mean, the first two days and today shows that.  Yesterday, I mean, was really bad like (indiscernible), and then today I was like a different person.   
So, yeah, definitely learned that I can be out here if I'm good to myself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT