LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 18, 2019
Nicole Broch Larsen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel about your round?  3-under.  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Really good.  I mean, it was definitely tougher out there today than yesterday.  The wind is really strong out there and it's swirling around.  It was swirling yesterday, too, but, yeah, obviously like better wind yesterday and less of it, but today it was strong and tough out there.   
Getting around at 3-under, yeah, definitely taking that one.   
 Q.  What did you think was the key today?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I think I made some good up and downs on the holes where I missed the greens, especially coming in.  And then I just stayed like really healthy mentally, which I've been struggling with for a long time.   
In Kia I saw some good signs.  I was good with myself there, and yeah, trying to do the same this week.  So far I've done really well and I'm happy about my two rounds.   
 Q.  Talk to me about the mental challenges.  What were you going through and how were you battling that?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Well, my biggest issue has been that like I've been afraid of hitting the ball, like afraid of hitting bad shots.  So in Kia and this week and forward going, it's all about being brave out there, not be afraid of hitting bad shots.   
Because when you are that, it's hard to hit good shots.  When you hit bad shots, just kind of leave it and keep on grinding.   
So, yeah, that's been the key like in Kia when I played better and this week for sure, too.   
 Q.  Are there any exercises that you do to help bring out that confidence and bravery?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: I mean, I'm talking a lot to my mental coach and my swing coach about it, but I'm using -- I'm actually using the Headspace Mindfulness, too.  I've used it for a while.  Last couple months I've used it more.  Helps me out there, too, yeah, basically breathe better, breathe through my stomach and not through my shoulders.   
 Q.  How are you going to prepare for tomorrow?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Definitely going to go to the range and hit a few balls.  Yeah, when it is this windy it will mess up your rhythm sometimes.  So, yeah, I'm going to hit a few balls and hit the gym, and then I'll have a big steak tonight.   
 Q.  Are you enjoying Hawaii?  
NICOLE BROCH LARSEN: Really nice.  I love it here.  I didn't play last year.  I was here two years ago, and, yeah, had a good experience.  That was my first LPGA event actually.   
Yeah, I like it.  Even though it's windy, I like the challenge.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT