ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2016
Kirsten Flipkens
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. CORNET/K. Flipkens
6-1, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please.
Q. This is not at all the match I guess you wanted to play.  What happened?  Is it just a bad day?  Is it that she really played well?
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS: She played very well.  I wasn't really at my very best.  But then again, she did very well.  She had 25 winners, and it's just not easy.  I had not always the good sensations.  I was two meters behind the line.  She played very well.
At the end of the day, the numbers speak for themselves.
Q. What happened exactly?  You said you're not 100%.
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS: It just wasn't my good game.  When you look at the past weeks, I'm just not at my very best.
Q. You haven't been at your very best over the past weeks, but yet how did you arrive?  Did you feel confident?
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS: I wasn't super confident, but it's a Grand Slam tournament so you never know.  You never know what will happen.  I guess this is how it is.
Q. On a Monday night you were supposed to be on the main court, and the next day you end up being on a different, smaller court.  Does that make a difference?
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS: I never played on the Chatrier Court.  I played No. 2 Court several times, so I don't think it makes a big difference.
We arrived on time yesterday.  I don't think it made a difference.  You know, time is what it is.  I was not able to train that much yesterday.  I think ten minutes only yesterday.  But I think it's the same rule for everyone.
Q. Question about the prize money.  There has been a real effort to support the players who make it through the first round.  In 2010 you made it to the second round and the prize money was 25,000 euros.  Today, first round is 30,000.  This is to support players, simply in order to help them make end meet.
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS: Why are you talking about money?
Q. My question is the following:  I would like to understand if the increase in prize money, which is done intentionally, very purposeful, is it helping?  Has that made a difference for you in your everyday life?  Has it helped you?
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS: I don't know.  I'm not sure I understand your question.  What can I say?  It's the same thing for everyone.
Q. (No microphone.)
KIRSTEN FLIPKENS: I don't understand your question very well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT