DIAMOND RESORTS INVITATIONAL
January 11, 2018
Brian Urlacher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. I'm a lifelong Chicago guy. I was there when they drafted you. 
BRIAN URLACHER: Where do you live? 

Q. I was born and raised in it Waukegan, and I lived in Flossmoor for 17 years. 
BRIAN URLACHER: Just great.

Q. Yeah. Doug Sanders, who missed a two‑footer to win the British Open in 1970, says that not ten minutes goes by where he doesn't think about that putt. How often do you think about the Hall of Fame with February 3rd coming up? 
BRIAN URLACHER: Sure as hell not that much. Only when someone asks me about it honestly. I haven't given it much thought.

Q. It doesn't pop into your head during the course of the day? 
BRIAN URLACHER: No, it doesn't. I've got so much crap going on other than that. It's out of my control now. I think that's the main thing is I can't affect what's going to happen now. What I did on the field isn't going to change. So there's not much I can do about it. I don't think about it. It's in the voters' hands now. Whatever happens happens.

Q. How confident are you? How do you feel about what's going to happen? 
BRIAN URLACHER: I have no expectations. I talked to a couple of guys who have been this far before in the process and didn't get in and some that got in. They said the best thing to do is to have no expectations. I don't want to be disappointed. I'm just happy to be this far. Coming out where I came from, if you'd have told me at the beginning of my career I'd be on the Hall of Fame finalists list one day, I'd have taken that.

Q. When you look at this list and there's the 15 finalists, who's a slam dunk to you? 
BRIAN URLACHER: It's hard to say because you don't know what the media's thinking, the voters. You don't know what they're thinking about. I thought Terrell Owens would have gotten in last year, if you look at the stats.

Q. This one stands out to me. You stand out to me. 
BRIAN URLACHER: Of course you've got to say that because I'm standing here. Brian Dawkins had a great career as well. I think this is his third or fourth time being eligible. Steve Hutchinson was a great player. I played against those guys and Mawae. I thought Mawae would be a first ballot Hall of Famer.

Q. Who? 
BRIAN URLACHER: Kevin Mawae. He played 14 or 15 ‑‑ I thought he'd be a first ballot Hall of Famer. You take any one of those guys on the list, I think you can put them in on the first vote. 

Q. Minimum of four, maximum of eight. 
BRIAN URLACHER: What's that?

Q. Minimum of four guys off the list get in, maximum of eight is my understanding. 
BRIAN URLACHER: I have no idea. I don't even know ‑‑ you know how I found out? I got a call from a media guy and asked me if I'd do an interview about me making the finalists list.

Q. The NFL didn't tell you? 
BRIAN URLACHER: I have no idea how that works. I didn't hear from anyone.

Q. You say you have a lot going on where you're not thinking about it. What's going on? 
BRIAN URLACHER: Family, kids, just living. I started mountain biking a couple months ago, and I'm really into that. It's so much fun. It beats getting on the damn treadmill every day. I still play golf.

Q. You still in Chicago? 
BRIAN URLACHER: No, Arizona. We can't do mountain biking‑‑ we've been in Arizona for‑‑ I bought my house there ten years ago. We've been there full‑time for three years. I love it.

Q. You don't still have a house in Chicago? 
BRIAN URLACHER: I do. It's for sale. I'm out of there.

Q. One last question. There's a couple of crazy Super Bowl MVP stories‑‑ and I know you weren't an MVP in Miami in '07 when it rained all night. But Marcus Allen, the year he was a Super Bowl MVP, drove his rental car up to Tampa Stadium. They wouldn't let him in. 
BRIAN URLACHER: Security?

Q. Yeah, security wouldn't let him in. He left the rental car there. Still doesn't know what happened to the rental car. Rypien, when he was the Super Bowl MVP, couldn't sleep, got up at 5:00 a.m., went down to the lobby, there were ten other Redskins there. He took‑‑ Joe Gibbs had the bus and stuff. He took a cab to the stadium and slept on the training table for four hours. That's how he got his sleep. 
BRIAN URLACHER: What the hell?

Q. Do you have a crazy Super Bowl story? 
BRIAN URLACHER: My week was so boring. I'm the worse. So I tried to do it just like I did any other week during the season. On Friday night, at home games, we'd go eat with my family that was in town before the game. So we did that. I think we went to Morton's in Miami or whatever and ate. During the week, I did nothing. I'm so boring. I'm mad now because we lost the game. I wish I'd have had more fun. I'm so boring. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT