NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 15, 2005
Nazr Mohammed
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Is there a reason for the lopsided games, is there a reason for that, is it just home court?

TONY PARKER:  I don't know, but I thought all three games were very close.  It's just the fourth quarter, San Antonio, Detroit, they come with big baskets and it comes quick.  I think every time in the first three quarters, it's very close, very physical and in the fourth quarter, you know, somebody is making big baskets, like Manu the first few games and last night, Hamilton and Wallace hit some big baskets to win the game for Detroit.

Q.  Tony, in Game 4, do you expect it to be closer with so much to play for for both teams?

TONY PARKER:  Definitely.  It's a huge game, a huge game for both teams.  We definitely need to get one on the road, and Detroit definitely needs a win to come back in the series.  So I'm looking for a great game and a lot of intensity tomorrow.  It's going to be very tough.

Q.  Was Manu hurt or did they do just that good of a job on the defense? 

TONY PARKER:  We kept asking if he was okay and he said he was all right.  I don't know, you know, I guess he was okay. 

Q.  What did you see that enabled you to get as many points as you did last night versus the other? 

TONY PARKER:  For myself?  Nothing special.  I just made a couple outside shots, you know, and that had helped my confidence, tried to penetrate a little bit more.  I felt pretty good last night, but it was tough, because Timmy and Manu never got going, so I had a little bit more shots.

Q.  How important is Game 4?

NAZR MOHAMMED:  This is very, very important.  It's as important now as it is during the regular season trying to win games.  It's hard to beat teams when you turn the bomb over and give them extra possessions, but also a big key that hurt us was on the offensive glass.  They did a great job of getting to the offensive glass and we have to also limit that, too.

Q.  When teams are getting turnovers like they did yesterday, how does that change the game? 

NAZR MOHAMMED:  It gives them extra possessions and in situations like this, extra possessions are key.  You have to go down and execute your offense and get an opportunity to score, I mean, you take time off the clock if you're leading and then just it helps whoever is recovering the ball. 

Q.  Heading into Game 4, you guys came here to at least get one and you still have two more chances to do that.

NAZR MOHAMMED:  We take each game one game at a time.  We wanted to win last night and we're going to go out and try to win tomorrow night.  But, you know, we just want to be focused, execute the game plan.  We were disappointed that we turned the ball over so much, so we'll try to take better care of the ball and just execute the game plan. 

Q.  Can you talk about getting the fouls early?

NAZR MOHAMMED:  I would have never predicted I was going to get two fouls in a minute and 20 seconds.  It was disappointing, but that's the way the game goes sometimes.  I've probably done it before.  I've probably picked up quick fouls before, but I just tried to keep my focus and, you know, stay in the game and we were fortunate enough to be up one by half.  It was a tie game late in the game and I think we were only down by like three or four going into the fourth or something like that.  So it was still a game that we had an opportunity to win.  You know, my foul trouble happened but we were still in the game and had an opportunity. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT