NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 8, 2005
Nazr Mohammed
Tony Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Tony, you guys played incredible in that Phoenix series, do you think you need to play better to beat this Detroit team?
 
TONY PARKER:  Well, I think we need to play better.  It's going to be tough against Detroit.  They are a very good team and they match up very good against us, a great defense and they play a little bit like us and so we just have to play even better.  I think we can play better defense.  Against Phoenix, we played pretty good D but I think we can do better.  
 
Q.  Watching that Game 7 the other night, was there anything that stood out to you like, "man, we have to really step up," any particulars? 
 
TONY PARKER:  It was fun to watch.  It was a great game and two great teams and I think they came out very focused with a great mentality.  They fought through the whole series and Game 7 in Miami, that showed character and so we know they are going to come ready against us. 
 
Q.  What do you think about Detroit's defense and the way they played defense? 
 
TONY PARKER:  I think they played great defense.  Very solid and, you know, they don't have any weaknesses.  They play a little bit like us.  They have a very good mentality.  They want to play defense, they want to make shots and we know the Detroit defense, that's how they get their offense going. 
 
Q.  Two great defensive teams, how ugly can some of these games get?
 
TONY PARKER:  We know it's not going to be like Phoenix; it's not going to be 120-115.  We're not going to see scores like that in The Finals.  It's going to be a halfcourt game and every possession is going to be very important and both teams are, I think, going -- we are going to take care of the ball.  So it's not going to be a lot of points, I think. 
 
Q.  It's not going to be pretty though, is it?
 
TONY PARKER:  I don't think so.  It's going to be very physical.  You have Rasheed and Ben Wallace inside, they are going to play good D and they are going to play very aggressive and very physical.  
 
Q.  You won a championship here in San Antonio at the Alamodome on a pretty big stage in the Final Four.  Does this compare to that? 
 
NAZR MOHAMMED:  I can tell you that if I win another one, if I win another one here. 
 
Q.  The atmosphere?
 
NAZR MOHAMMED:  The atmosphere is similar as far as a lot of media and, you know, our focus is just as -- it's even more focused as it was in '98 when we won the Championship.  
 
Q.  Now, if you talk about the difference in attack with Phoenix's front line, the more athletic front lines up and down through Detroit, even though you have a couple of seven-footers you can shoot from the outside like Rasheed Wallace, it's a more physical group. 
 
NAZR MOHAMMED:  It's going to be more physical.  The biggest change is that, you know, someone like Shawn Marion who was athletic and ran and they have someone like Rasheed who is 6-11 and long and he can run.  That's the biggest difference.  They are a little bit deeper coming off the bench with their bigs.  You know, it's a long season and you experience things like that throughout the season. 
 
Q.  Is your game more suited to Shawn Marion and defending him or Rasheed Wallace?
 
NAZR MOHAMMED:  Actually I didn't defend him much.  I don't want to chase a guy like Shawn Marion around.  As far as Rasheed, he's also a tough matchup but he's long and he has a lot of skills and blocking on the perimeter, so it's going to be a tough battle for us.  
 
Q.  Did you watch Game 7, couple minutes to go, going up against Shaq and getting ready for that --
 
NAZR MOHAMMED:  I honestly didn't know who we would be playing.  I was just watching the game and I noted Detroit's defense always keeps them in games.  I was watching the game and I was open to playing either team.  But, you know, now it's Detroit and that's who we're worried about.  
 
Q.  How ugly can some of these games get with two great defensive teams?
 
NAZR MOHAMMED:  It can get ugly.  As long as we have one more point, I don't care what it is, these are two great defensive teams and they are both going to try to stop each other's offensive output, but I think they are pretty good at scoring, too, and we proved that playing against Phoenix that we can get up and down and put some points up.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT