TURNING STONE RESORT CHAMPIONSHIP
October 2, 2009
Aron Price
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Aron, great 65. What did you learn between yesterday and today?   
 ARON PRICE: It was actually unbelievable. I was 2-over through five yesterday. I've been quite sick and I've lost a lot of strength. I said today, this is crap. I'm just going to shoot two 80s and get out of here, and my coach is coming next week, so let's just relax.   
 But it was unbelievable. I cannot believe I did that. I putted so well. I haven't been putting well all year, but today I putted great.  
  
  Q. Beware of the sick golfer. You start out on the first hole, you make a 20-footer. That has to get you started and get you going.   
 ARON PRICE: Yeah. Started out 20, 25, and I probably made two or three. That's so rare for me. Normally I make one or two a tournament.   
 So had a little tip from Nathan Green and just trying to focus really hard on that one thing he said. I think maybe about two or three. At the moment we got one way to go.  
  
  Q. Do you want to share the little tip with us, the one thing?  
 ARON PRICE: He just said to focus hard. Pick your line and hit it. Don't think about so many technical things. Technical things are for when you're off the course. When you're on the course, it's more feel.   
  
  Q. You need a big week this week. You've had a few weeks off; although you've made a lot of cuts, you haven't finished as high as you want?  
 ARON PRICE: No, I think my last eight events, I've played eight events in nine weeks, and I've played seven in a row and it was quite poor. I tend to play quite well on Fridays because I know what to expect. I don't like sitting around on the weekend and watching people. So on the weekend I don't know if it's hard for me to focus more or less. But it hasn't been good on weekends. I've had four weeks off, so I feel refreshed. I traveled through Europe and relaxed, so that was good.  
  
  Q. Did you? What was the highlight? What was the funnest part of your trip through Europe?  
 ARON PRICE: Great golf. It was pretty awesome. I actually got quite sick the second part. I spent three days in a London hospital to finish the trip. So it's been a weird last four or five weeks, but anyway, it's good to be back out here and playing this week.  
  
  Q. Here with Aron Price. Aron, 2-over through five yesterday. About feeling like you're going to pack it in.   
 ARON PRICE: It's quite amazing actually. I just made a couple poor bogeys and that's why. My strength is quite down because I got quite sick when I was over in Europe. Made a few bogeys and I just haven't been that confident on the range last week.   
 So I just took some days off and thought I'd shoot a couple 80s, get out of here. My coach is coming over from Australia next week. So quite a turnaround.   
 I got a few tips from Nathan Green on my putting. I've been putting really well and that confidence boosted my long game.  
  
  Q. Nathan Green, of course, won at the Canadian Open earlier this year. Can you just tell us it's that time of year when we talk about the numbers. You're about 140 on the Money List. Are you starting to put pressure on yourself?  
 ARON PRICE: Not too much, because I know that I can play well. I've made a lot of cuts this year. I've played quite well on a lot of Fridays. Just gotta transition into the weekend and get myself through four days, whether it's Wednesday, Tuesday, Saturday, Friday. I just need to play the way I do on Friday.  
  
  Q. One more question. This is the Turning Stone Resort and Casino and your caddie had quite a run the other night.   
 ARON PRICE: Yeah. Aaron's sort of congratulating him. I get to do that with Aaron, but knowing Val, he's probably giving much of it back.   
  
  Q. Here's my question for you. Is the (indiscernible) set up in your name so if you won this week, you'd have to give him money?  
 ARON PRICE: I think it's in Aaron's. I think if he finishes, I should be getting paid. I didn't actually walk him to the table and pull out any money for him, But I think I was good company.   
  
  Q. Perhaps a little bit of negotiations on that. Thank you so much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT