AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v YANKEES
October 4, 2011
A.J. Burnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







New York Yankees 10
  Detroit Tigers   1

 Q. A.J., when the ball leaves Kelly's bat in the first inning, did you think it would be caught? 
 A.J. BURNETT: At first, no. It was a line drive. I guess it kind of stayed up there a little longer than Curtis expected it. He's made plays for us like that all year. Even last year. So we don't win that game tonight without defense. 

 Q. A.J., I think when you were walking off after that catch, you kind of smirked at Curtis. Do you remember what was going through your mind as you walked off? 
 A.J. BURNETT: I don't. Just probably the fact that he just saved me a couple of runs. I just -- I didn't really care at that point. I can't let walks bother me. Not now, not this late, not in the playoffs. I wasn't really bothered by it. I was trying to throw strikes. When he put a good swing on like that, there was a little drama. He came in and went back. It was like ah, and he caught it. It's impressive. That's probably what I was thinking, wow, thanks for saving me. 

 Q. A.J., you talked yesterday about how you've given people a reason to doubt. How good does it feel to be able to put this kind of game together in this situation? 
 A.J. BURNETT: Well, I mean, it's big. But like I said, we don't win tonight without defense. The double plays, the plays Al made, both of Curtis' plays. As well as we swung the bat and as well as we made pitches tonight, I think our defense was huge. 

 Q. It appeared in the first inning that you weren't just missing, but you were missing by a lot. And then after that not even looking the same. Was there some adjustment you made in between innings that got you going after the first inning? 
 A.J. BURNETT: Maybe it took me 25 to 30 to get loose, maybe. I don't know. I was just letting it go. And if it didn't go for a strike, it didn't go. I wasn't worried about it. I got the ball and was able to do it again. I was able to find somewhat of a rhythm after that. It was a little nerve-racking in the first. I hadn't been out there in a while. 
 It was good to get a final out even if it was a diving catch he had to make. 

 Q. Joe has been telling us all week you'd be on possibly a short leash here tonight. When you got in some trouble. First inning he had some somebody warming up in the first inning. Were you aware of that? Did you have a sense you might be coming out in the first inning? 
 A.J. BURNETT: If it got out of hand, sure. This is an important game. All hands on deck. If I wasn't getting it done, somebody would have come in and gotten it done. 

 Q. Are you aware there was somebody warming up in the bullpen? 
 A.J. BURNETT: No. I don't look that way. 

 Q. Can you tell us what was said on the mound when he came out to get you? 
 A.J. BURNETT: He just said, "great job. Great performance for us there. " You know me, I felt like I should have went further. Too many walks. I guess a win is a win. Kept my team in it the best I could. 
 He was extremely proud. Joe has had my back after all my ups and downs. So it's always good when he comes out. He's always been positive. Just another positive statement from Skip. 

 Q. When you were talking about having trouble controlling some stuff, it looked like maybe a couple of curveballs you had some problems with it early on and then it got better. Did you feel that way? 
 A.J. BURNETT: I felt everything got a little better. Just get that first inning out of the way, I guess, you can say. I hadn't been out there a while. I wasn't going to let little things bother me. I didn't care if I walked eight, whatever. How many hits, how many homers you give up, I was just going to get the ball back and let it fly. I took that approach tonight, and it worked. 

 Q. A.J., how often have you walked off a mound and smacked your manager on the butt with your glove? 
 A.J. BURNETT: Did I do that? 

 Q. Yeah, you got him. Two, your curveball seemed to develop -- appeared to be the pitch you might have been struggling with in the first inning and then it became a weapon. I'm curious how it went from early to late. 
 A.J. BURNETT: Number one, that's probably the first time I've ever smacked a manager on the butt. I didn't know I did it. It was probably a little "thank you" for all the stuff he's done for me. 
 I was overthrowing it early. I was overthrowing a lot early. Once I realized I just needed to get it over the plate and not try to make it better than what it was. I got some groundball outs when I needed it. It was a matter of finding it. My hook, the more I throw it, the better it's going to be. You can't put it in the back pocket. You have to keep throwing it and find it. That's what we did. 

 Q. A.J., you mentioned it was a little nerve-racking the first inning. When you first went out there, were you nervous or amped up or in any way for this --
 A.J. BURNETT: Yeah. I was a little of both. It was a big game. I went into it yesterday knowing it was, all week, actually. When you come in somebody else's house, you have the fans, you have them, you have a great team you're going up against that can hit the ball, and you walk the first guy, and you're overthrowing. I knew I was overthrowing, but I wasn't going to think about it. When you think about it, that's when it goes more south. 
 It was a little bit of both. Once that first inning was over after Curtis saved me, I was able to take a breath, and then our offense took over. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, A.J. 
 A.J. BURNETT: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT