AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: ANGELS v YANKEES
October 16, 2009
A.J. Burnett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: A.J. Burnett is here. We will take first question. 

 Q. A.J., how important is control for you in this ballgame, just knowing how this team loves to feast on the base paths? 
 A.J. BURNETT: Control is always important when it comes to me. It's getting ahead is the main thing. And when I do get ahead, not to overdo it and try to make pitches better. I think the first start is what you saw. The guys I did get ahead I didn't put away early. I wasted a lot of pitches trying to put them away and then they got on base. Can't do that against a team that can run and can do things like Anaheim. 

 Q. A.J., when you watched Mariano as an opponent and now as a teammate, what is it about him that you think makes him as dominant a closer this game has ever seen? 
 A.J. BURNETT: Confidence. I think it's confidence. I think with all great players, they have confidence like that. You know, whether he's got his "A" game or not, he can get you because of who he is, not just what he has. But just the fact that he's so confident out there and what he's doing day in and day out, his approach never changes. Nothing changes. 

 Q. A.J., I know you're used to working every fifth day. I'm guessing your teammates aren't. Is it weird having this time off between games? And does it take away some of the excitement and momentum of the series? 
 A.J. BURNETT: It doesn't take away excitement. We've been here the past couple of days working out and goofing off and having a good time. We're all anxious and ready to get going. 
 It's different. I've never been part of this much time in between, but that's what bullpens are for. That's what side work is for. And we've done what we needed to do to be ready. 

 Q. A.J., a lot of guys would come in from other teams in recent years kind of struggle to blend in with the clubhouse. But you and CC in particular seem to have no problem at all. I'm just wondering how challenging or easy you found that in terms of just making yourself at home here? 
 A.J. BURNETT: For the most part, the pies aside, I'm a pretty quiet individual during the game and stuff. Soft-spoken guy. I don't know, it just didn't matter really who I met or who I ran into. Just joked with them from the get-go and getting on them from the get-go. It's not hard to blend in with guys like this. It's a good group. The main thing is you can be yourself there in that clubhouse. I think that's what a lot of people have learned this year is that they can be themselves. 

 Q. When you have that workhorse like CC, what impact does it have on the rest of the staff? And specifically what impact has he had on you? 
 A.J. BURNETT: He's had a huge impact on me. I've had the pleasure of following him often this year. There ain't nothing like going after him. He sets the tone, he comes out and he attacks. He has that confidence, too. He's prepared every fifth day. He works hard in between every fifth day. That's what you want to see from your fellow starters. You want to see commitment and effort. He's non-stop through the whole season. To be able to throw that many innings and do what he does year in and year out, he's definitely an ace, number one. 

 Q. A.J., since you made your postseason debut in the last round, do you have any more of a comfort level going into tomorrow's start just because you have some familiarity with pitching in the postseason now? 
 A.J. BURNETT: I mean, I got six innings in the postseason. So I have a ways to go to catch a lot of these guys. 
 But, I mean, I know a little what to expect, crowd-wise and everything. It's still going to be a crazy and exciting and emotional game. By all means I know how important my start is. I have the least amount of postseason experience, but I'm looking forward to it. We're going to hopefully get this win in tonight and follow CC. He's going to come out with a bang. 

 Q. Speaking about following CC, does that change your approach if you're up 1-0 or down 0-1 when you take the mound tomorrow? 
 A.J. BURNETT: I haven't even thought about that yet. I mean, I'm sure it would, depending on what the outcome is. But it's a game. I still got to go out and prepare whether we're up 1-0 or down 1-0. I'll go into Saturday as if it was 0-0. 

 Q. A.J., you're admittedly a guy who needs to work to keep his emotions in check leading up to a start on the mound. The threat of a lot of rain tomorrow, if there's a long delay or getting the game pushed back to Sunday, would that be a struggle for you, do you think, if you have to wait longer and longer? 
 A.J. BURNETT: No, I don't think so. I don't think so. I've pitched in pretty bad weather before. Opened up here a couple of years back and in Detroit. So the weather is not going to be a factor. And if I need an extra day because of the weather, I'll do what I have to do to be ready for Sunday.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT