NCAA DIVISION I WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2007
Johny Hendricks
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Johny, what makes Travis such a tough competitor for you every time?  It seems like your matches are so close every time? 
 JOHNY HENDRICKS:  One thing about that, he knows how to wrestle.  He knows how to make sure he's not getting stalled.  He did those half shots in that mind.  He tied my head up very well.  He's the only guy that can do that.  I have to say he's almost as strong as I am, so that makes it a little more harder on myself, because I do use technique, but I also use a lot of my strength.  And I would have to say that's my strong point, my strength, to be able to pull through had him.  And wrestling him, it's harder to do that because he is strong and he's a good competitor.  I think we've wrestled eight times and he's brought it closer and closer each time. 

 Q.  Do you think you should have gotten the reversal on that? 
 JOHNY HENDRICKS:  Yes, I had him on his back.  I had him pinned.  I know he was pinned because he wasn't moving.  Usually someone is in that situation for three seconds, it's usually a pin.  But I didn't get it, life goes on.  That's one thing people are sitting here booing me for.  I'm the aggressor the whole time and with doing that I'm sort of penalizing myself, because the fans don't want me out there, they want a guy who is not going to do anything. 

 Q.  Perry, you faced him before, talk about that relationship? 
 JOHNY HENDRICKS: Oklahoma family, Oklahoma State family?  I wouldn't go that far.  When we step on the mat, he don't like me and I don't like him.  That's just the way it is.  Off the mat, I try to be nice to everybody.  I try to be, you know, the person that I am off the mat.  I want to be that way.  And I'll be nice to him until I step on the mat.  But as soon as I step on the mat, we're enemies.  That's just the way it has to be. 

 Q.  Your goal all along has been let's get that third one, and Paulson has been so tough for you.  Describe your emotions now that you are in the finals again tomorrow and you are one match left in your career.  You know who it is against and you know what's on the line. 
 JOHNY HENDRICKS: You know there is a part of me that believes I wrestled the finals tonight.  I'm not going to lie.  Paulson is a good wrestler.  He made it definitely tough for me.  The last four years, I've met him every year.  I went 57, he went 65.  The year I went up, he went up.  He's definitely made it tough on knee.  Knowing that I a had Mark Perry, I still have to look at him as a threat because he is.  A lot of people think he is a guy that flops around, but he's good at it.  Every move that you make, you have to make sure it's solid or he'll end up catching you.  I don't know how he's been wrestling this week, I haven't looked at anybody, so I'm not really too interested in anybody else.  One reason about this -- one thing that makes me successful about this tournament is, I don't care about anybody else.  They wrestle.  I want them to worry about me.  I don't want to worry about them.  I don't care to worry about him.  Just line them up, and let's wrestle them. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT