BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 25, 2013
Jean-Baptiste Gonnet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   A good start?  
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   Yeah, it was good to put my name up right away, because I haven't played like this for more than a year.   That's pretty good.   I played pretty straight off the tee, putting was great.   I mean, putting was great last week, so I keep the feeling with me.   But yeah, it's good to play, 5‑under is a good score.  
   
 Q.   Which begs the question:   Where have you been, why haven't we seen you and what have you done right this time?  
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   Yeah, I had a few changes in my swing, trying different coaches, talking about technique.   I'm back with my old coach from last week, which is working so I'm so happy.   Four rounds, I think I took the good position.   It was great to see that so early.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel silly, because sometimes you make the changes and they work‑‑ and sometimes they don't, and you've had to go back to the original blueprint.   
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   It's going to be a good experience.   That's golf.   You are trying to find a solution because you don't play great and sometimes not a good decision to change.   But I mean, it was a long, long way for me.   It was more than a year to come back.   
It's been a long way to go but it's good to see a score like this.   It's not about the score; it's about the feeling.   My game is really good, I can feel it's come back from last week and this week again.   So that's great to feel that.   
   
 Q.   I presume it changes your whole dynamic and your demeanor when you go out; you're that much more positive.   
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   Yeah, I felt exactly this feeling last week when I start again with my new coach.   I'm so happy, and I mean, it's really nice to see that so early.   
So I'm really happy and I'm really, really happy to do the changes.  
   
 Q.   And thrashing Victor Dubuisson the night before at table tennis, does that help?  
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   I'm not a good ping‑pong player, but, well, it worked, so well today so maybe we are going to have some ping‑pong tonight.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the course?  
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   When I practised here, it was just after 12 hours on a plane and practicing.   I really like it.   Of course there is many, many elevation but the design is very good. I love this kind of design, it's like American design.   You can see every line, so I really like it.   The greens are good and plus it's in really good shape so it's good to be here.   
   
 Q.   Going to bed now?  
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   Definitely, as soon as possible.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT