COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 5, 2012
Jean-Baptiste Gonnet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNETT:   I played pretty solid.   The two first days I would say the same game, but putting was a bit different today.   It was amazing today how so many many putts from everywhere on the green.   Greens are different, they're better today, but I had a fantastic day with my belly putter.   I'm going to stay with that for a while.

Q.   Did you think first thing this morning I might have a chance here?
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNETT:   A chance, not easy to say that, but of course I have a chance to shoot a low score because I'm playing well.   I know I feel good. 
You just have to hole some putts, and that's what I did today, so I'm very happy.

Q.   What was the highlight?   What putts were sinking?
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNETT:   You know, I don't know.   It's not easy to say, you know.   Of course, it's a fantastic tournament, but you know, it's always special to play in three rounds, you know. 
I think a lot of people get a chance when you're playing three rounds because I think there is less pressure when you play three, for me.   It's my opinion. 

Q.   Certainly the very nature of it changes the dynamics as well, doesn't it, because in a sense you have to be a little bit more aggressive on that second day just to give yourself a chance?
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNETT:   Exactly, because yesterday when I finished 1‑under I thought there was no chance because, you know, there was only one round to go.   But you never know, a lot of things can happen in golf and that's what I've done today.

Q.   And this day is a continuation of some fine form in Abu Dhabi last week?
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNETT:   Yeah.   I played pretty well in Abu Dhabi.   On the last day it was a bit disappointing but that's golf.   Sometimes you can hole some putts, sometimes you miss some putts.   You have to keep working and it worked today.

Q.   You never know, we might be speaking later as well?
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNETT:   Hopefully.

Q.   But where do you think this will finish?
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNETT:   No.   I think the winds are calmed down now.   There is many, many opportunities on the Back 9.   Yesterday I told my caddie if you finish at 11‑under would be great.   So I think I'm going to finish three or four shots behind.   But anyway, it's definitely a good round for me.

Q.   And in terms of prize money and what that does for the season, it makes it that much more relaxed?
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNETT:   That is great.   I did the same thing last year.   I've changed my swing, some things on my swing.   It wasn't a good idea.   I did the same, I'm doing the same this week ‑‑ this year, so I'm not going to do the same mistake, so I'm going to stay like this with my belly putter and we will see what is going to happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT