ABU DHABI HSBC GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 26, 2012
Jean-Baptiste Gonnet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How good was that?   
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   It was amazing, especially on the greens.   Switched for the belly putter, because I'm watching TV since a long time, quite a lot of players are using the belly now.   I had some trouble in South Africa a few weeks ago with my short putter, so I switched for the belly.   The guy just told me, I don't need 25 putts today.   
It was amazing, to start I was 3‑under after four.   I holed so many long putts today, it was amazing, something like two or three more than ten metres, so it's amazing.   In one round, it's amazing‑‑ for me, it's amazing.   I've never done that with the short one.  
   
 Q.   You've seen the results very quickly, but was it hard to change to a belly putter when you've grown used to things?   
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   No, it was not hard, but it's very different.   The putter is really heavy.   That's the different thing from a long putt.   The ball is going I think really quicker from the putter, but that's the only bad thing from the belly.   
But from five feet to ten feet, it's amazing.   There have been some comments about the greens here.   Mostly that they are good and running true, but they are grainy, so you obviously read the grains nicely as well.   Definitely less than Asia, but they are grainy.   I think it's more than Dubai, definitely.   But it helps me a lot today.   
It was good.   The greens are really quick.   But the main‑‑ I think the main thing, the main difference from last year is the fairway, the fairway is really tight, the rough is going to be higher.   
So I think you don't have to shoot a low, low score to make a good result here, because last year, if you don't shoot 20‑under, you don't contend.   So I think it's going to be a little bit different this week.  
   
 Q.   I take it you found more fairways than not, anyway, with a score like that.   
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   I wasn't, because I broke my driver this morning on the range, so I use my 3‑wood off the tee today.   So we will see tomorrow, maybe I will use my 3‑wood again.  
   
 Q.   What happened with the driver?   
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   I think the head just come off the shaft.   So I just have to see somebody on the range now to fix that.   
   
 Q.   You've played well in this part of the world before, haven't you?   
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   Yeah, I played well in Dubai.   And this course, the really good thing is the design.   And you are always playing in the nice weather, so that's one of the good things.   There's no wind and it's nice to play in this condition.  
   
 Q.   Have to ask if you wintered well, whether you had a good break and prepared yourself for this season?  
JEAN‑BAPTISTE GONNET:   Yeah, not a long one, only two weeks, but it was good to take some rest.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT