NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 22, 2007
Bill Guerin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BILL GUERIN:  It's awesome, like coming home.  It is.  It's good for the kids, too.  I mean, for my wife because the kids (inaudible) play dates all day.  Their friends are skipping school to hang out with them.  It's been awesome.  Had a bunch of Margaritas last night.   
  
  Q.  The kids, Margaritas?   
 BILL GUERIN:  They've got to sleep, don't they?   
  (Laughter.)    
  Q.  Satisfaction to be back here?   
 BILL GUERIN:  Satisfaction.  Yes, after last year, actually just things like this are always nice.  It's always a big honor.  This one is extra special just because of my year last year and I worked hard to get my game back in order.  I'm just happy to be here.   
  
  Q.  Did you ever say (inaudible) All-Star game in Dallas, I'll be back here, or are you surprised to be here?   
 BILL GUERIN:  It might have crossed my mind.  But like I said, it was always just something that if you play well and something like this happens, then it's great.   
 If not, then you get a nice break.   
  
  Q.  What's the difference for you this year?  How have you been able to do what you've done this year compared to last year?   
 BILL GUERIN:  You know, I just think this year I got a clear head.  And I had a good summer of training and I didn't miss many days, and it wasn't the case like the summer before.  I missed a lot.  I didn't have all the opportunities.   
 So mentally and physically I feel better.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible) negotiations or contract?   
 BILL GUERIN:  Exactly.  I didn't travel a lot.  I stayed put.  Like I said, I didn't miss any days of training, really.  Started two weeks after the season and I just wanted to get myself back in shape and the way stuff was going was big for me.   
  
  Q.  Can you tell out on the ice?   
 BILL GUERIN:  Absolutely.  Last year when I hurt my eye I came back and lost all that weight.  That's when I realized I had to get in better shape.  Rick helped me a lot trying to get my conditioning down and (inaudible).   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT