NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 4, 2001
Bill Guerin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Bill, is that a line for the Olympics next year?
 
BILL GUERIN:  I am not sure.  Hopefully all are going to be members of the team.  And when you are involved in something like that, you are never going to be upset about who your linemates are.  But it sure would be fun. 
 

Q.  Has this been kind of a continuation of a dream season for you being traded to your hometown?  Was that biggest thrill of your career?  Was that the team you grew up idolizing, or no?
 
BILL GUERIN:  It was definitely the team I idolized.  All my favorite players were from there.  The whole year in a nutshell has been fantastic.  Just everything has turned out really well, and this is a great honor today, and other things are just icing on the cake. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about being able to play with Doug Weight again?
 
BILL GUERIN: It was great.  It was a lot of fun, Dougy and I are best of friends, and I really enjoyed playing together.  This was a nice opportunity for us to play in an All-Star Game together and just be reunited and have a good friend, Tony Amonte, with us out there too. 
 

Q.  After all the buildup, did it feel different having Mario out there?
 
BILL GUERIN:  Absolutely.  I mean, it was awesome just to have him around.  His presence was definitely felt.  Just to be involved in something with him like this was a thrill for everybody.  We all had a lot of fun just sitting on the bench watching him play. 
 

Q.  Winning the MVP, does it blow your mind?
 
BILL GUERIN: It is pretty hard to believe right now.  But I was thrilled to be picked, to come and play this weekend.  I just wanted to relax, enjoy being around the guys and have fun.  Like I said, all this, you know:  Trophy and the car and all that stuff is icing on the cake.  But the best part about it was being around all the guys.  They were great. 
 

Q.  Who gets the car?
 
BILL GUERIN: I have to ask my wife.  I don't know who gets the car.  Maybe we will save it for one of my kids.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT