CHARLES SCHWAB CUP CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2006
Craig Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
***Interview was in progress***
CRAIG STADLER:  Bunker shot from that fairway bunker over the tree about four feet and made that.  So it was a good finish.  It was a good day.  It was 4 under.  It could have been.

But it was a good day.  I mean it was    couple bad pulls in the rough with lies that could have been probably 2, and with some putts it could have been 6 or 7, so...

THE MODERATOR:  Questions.
Q.  What were the conditions out like today?
CRAIG STADLER:  It was perfect.  Obviously the wind was blowing yesterday.  It was ripping pretty good.  Today for the most part it was pretty calm.  Had a little breeze on the back nine but not enough to affect anything.  It's a nice little golf course; it's in perfect shape; fairways are perfect greens are fast.  You got to really pay attention to the greens.  You know hit it the wrong side of the hole twenty feet and slide it by the hole in a heartbeat.  They're smooth and rolling good.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CRAIG STADLER:  Worrying about that as far as our own game I don't think.  We don't worry about our on game anymore anyway.  We're way beyond that.  But, no.  For me it's awesome.  When he's playing I get back    when he's playing early back easy I can turn the computer on early and watch him on the satellite thing and    in the afternoons and he's had very good very bad, very indifferent year at times.  All three seasons really in one year.  He's won 3 times and missed probably ten cuts but had a little of everything.  Fun as hell to watch.  It's good stuff.  I've enjoyed it every week and it's certainly doesn't bother my game when he's playing well.  I love seeing and hearing what he's been doing and I'm sure Jay is the same way.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CRAIG STADLER:  I will be very happy when Sunday gets here, let me put it that way.
Q.  It's been a very interesting year.  I've played good on the times, I've played horrible on the times, I've had good attitude, very golf minded on the times.  I've had a lot of weeks where I shouldn't have been on the golf course.  So it's been very up and down very emotional year for a lot of different reasons, but hopefully we'll start out fresh next year and get back into it.  I've taken pretty much    as I look on the it anyway I've pretty much taken two years off and really of haven't been very competitive out here.  But hopefully I'll change this week and hopefully for the next five, six, seven that I'm going to play.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CRAIG STADLER:  I enjoy playing.  I obviously do, sure.  I'm just like the rest of us.  It's all we know.  It's all we know how to do.  No, but I do enjoy playing out here, the camaraderie and the fellowship with the guys.  The golf gets better, gets deeper, gets more competitive every year, with not necessarily the two or three guys coming out every year.  Just the guys out here seem to keep getting better.  They get more comfortable being out here and they score better.  On a pretty good golf courses for three days.

So I do enjoy it.  I enjoy the competition.  If I didn't I wouldn't do it; I'd find something else to do.  But I do enjoy it.  I even enjoy it more when I make putts.  That's a helluva lot of fun.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CRAIG STADLER:  Yeah.  Remembering back, I think the first year somebody did that we kind of wondered, what's this guy doing?  He's playing 12, 13, 14 events and goes home.  Skips the Open, skips the British Open, PGA, got too many doglegs left.  I'm not going to play.  Then we got used to it.  Because he stuck to his guns.  Been consistent throughout.

When you look back on the it though, it makes sense.  He was very much    his priority was his family and his family life and now the kids are moved out of the house and he's playing probably 25 events, full time.  I think he enjoys playing out here and with no kids on the home's obviously a lot easier.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CRAIG STADLER:  No, but you do realize that.  It's a cycle for everyone.  And you make it what you want, I guess.  You start out single on the road then you get married and have kids and you feel like your single and out on the road again.  It is kind of a cycle.  Then they go through school and then she comes back out.  But certainly it's a very nomadic life.  It's not any easy life by any means.  You can make it as easy or hard as you want as well, there's no doubt about that.

But when we came out, hell, there were no planes.  There weren't a whole loft commercial plains.  We drove most of the time.  It was quite a bit different, obviously.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
CRAIG STADLER:  I played really well last week.  That was the first week I just kind of messed around with the swing on the irons and started hitting them really well.  On then Sunday, I couldn't find the golf course.  Hit two fairways all day, shot 2 over par.

Today I drove it perfect on the front nine.  I wasn't 3 feet or the center line every hole.  Dead center, hit every green.  Didn't make any putts, but turn it two under.

And then I do on the rough on 12, 13, should have drove the rough on 14, got a good bounce    or 15.  Drove the rough on 16; drove the bunker on 18.

So I hit one fairway the rest of the way, but I shot 3 under the rest of the way.  So you never know.  But I have been getting more confidence with my game.  Yeah, you play bad for a while it starts to    just starts to eat on the you a little bit.  You start getting a little more pissed than normal and kind of    not necessarily lack of confidence.  But more agitated which doesn't take much to agitate me as you all have seen over the years.

You know, I really thought I was going play well last week and then Sunday I couldn't find the golf course with the driver.  But that was good to be back    it's always nice to finish with a couple birdies.  Surprising on 18, I was in the face of that bunker, over the creek over the tree and stuck it in there about four feet.

And made the putt which you're supposed to do when you hit a shot like that.  It's all good.  We got 3 more days.  We'll go out and have fun and try to make some more putts.  Have a couple bottles of wine and see what happens.  I have to quit drinking before I play, though.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT