SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2006
Craig Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Was it just a matter of trying it make things happen out there and getting bit while trying to do it?
CRAIG STADLER:  I hit a lot of good shots for shooting 84.
Q.  You shot 83.
CRAIG STADLER:  No, they had the score wrong.  It was 84.  But that was a good putt on 18.  My highest round as a professional ever was an 84.  So I did not set a new record.
Q.  What were the conditions like out there?
CRAIG STADLER:  It sucked.  The conditions weren't quite as bad as my golf, but it was almost.
Q.  John wanted to know why you played 27 holes instead of 18?
CRAIG STADLER:  Yeah, no kidding.
Q.  Was it that difficult?
CRAIG STADLER:  No, I mean it's played this tough before, but obviously it got going bad early and I made a million on 4.  Didn't hit that bad a tee shot and then misjudged a little wedge.

And then just kind of misjudged the wind after that a few holes and after that it was just get it over with.  And I didn't get it over with very well.  I made a hell of a 4 on 17.  I hit the one in the water on 17 and then hit the next one up there and made 4.
Q.  Do you have any four putts?
CRAIG STADLER:  I didn't even have any three putts.  I just hit it like crap all day.
Q.  Does that mean you're looking forward to coming back tomorrow?
CRAIG STADLER:  Oh, I can't wait.  I wish it was this afternoon.  I would love to go out this afternoon and get it over with.
Q.  Ready to slam the trunk?
CRAIG STADLER:  You could say that, yeah.  Yeah, I will come out and go through the motions and try to play a good round tomorrow, but it's for absolutely nothing other than trying to shoot a good score after today and convince myself that I'm not a 20 handicap.
Q.  How do you makeup ground in a situation like this if you're trying to catch these leaders, what do you do?
CRAIG STADLER:  You just got to stay patient and try to keep the ball in play and just try to, on a day like today, play more with the wind than try to fight it.  Even par would be a damn good score today and no matter where you were today, you make the cut at 5 over, you happen to shoot two or 3 under, you're going to be back in pretty good position.

So just be patient and try to hit some golf shots, which I was patient, I just didn't hit any golf shots.
Q.  How did you feel on the practice range?  Did you feel okay?
CRAIG STADLER:  Yeah.  Yeah.
Q.  So you didn't feel this coming on?
CRAIG STADLER:  It was one of the most enjoyable days.
Q.  When is the last time you shot 84?
CRAIG STADLER:  I believe Jacksonville.  15 years ago.
Q.  What was the wind blowing that day?
CRAIG STADLER:  I don't remember.  I don't know when it was.  I know where it was, but not when.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT