U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2005
Craig Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You had lot a good stuff but how about that last birdie putt?  How far
 CRAIG STADLER:  I don't know how far it was, but probably 45 feet or so.  I thought I had a good drive and just caught the heavy stuff on the left.  Didn't have a lie, not too bad.  But got enough of the club to get it on the green.  Just tried to two putt and the hole got in the way.
Q.  Birdies were a little more difficult for you today.  You got a couple.
 CRAIG STADLER:  Yeah, I got a couple but I missed a lot of putts today.  I miss a about six or eight times from inside 15 feet or so.

All the ones I read right yesterday, I misread today.  New pins tomorrow, and hopefully I'll read them right tomorrow and hopefully get what I got yesterday.
Q.  How satisfying is it to end the round the way you did?
 CRAIG STADLER:  I was just hoping to kind of two putt.  It didn't go where it aimed it, so what the heck.  But I certainly didn't expect to make that one, but then it went and it's a very nice way to end the day obviously.
Q.  Are you a leaderboard watcher at all?
 CRAIG STADLER:  I look.  It's hard to avoid it out here, there's so many of them.
Q.  What do you plan on doing in your free time here in the area?  Do you have any plans?
 CRAIG STADLER:  I don't have any yet.  I have the rest of the afternoon and I don't have anything yet.  What do you have in mind?
Q.  Air force museum has been a pretty popular answer?
CRAIG STADLER:  Air force museum...
Q.  How would you say the course is playing?  Still receptive?
 CRAIG STADLER:  I think it played pretty much identical to yesterday.  The greens were the same speed.  They were just as soft.  The wind was about the same, just a little bit of breeze.  I'd say it was very similar to yesterday.
Q.  You're halfway there, how does it feel?
 CRAIG STADLER:  Two down, two to go.  Just keep doing what I'm doing.  Just keep driving the ball in the fairway.  If you get it in the fairway, you have reasonable opportunities for birdie; if you get it in the rough you're going to have a hard time making par.
Q.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT