U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 28, 2005
Craig Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What did you do to that golf course out there today?
 CRAIG STADLER:  Not much really.  I drove the ball well, hit some good irons, made some good putts, just for the most part kept it in play, hit a couple of wayward drives on 9 and on 1, and pretty much got away with both of them.  But other than that, just played from the fairway all day, and hit some good iron shots.  I played the par 5s good obviously, hit all of the greens in two, two birdies and an eagle, but just a pretty consistent day.
Q.  Tell us about the eagle at 6.
 CRAIG STADLER:  I drove the ball very good down the right side of the fairway, had 240 or 242 or something to the hole, hit it 15 to 20 feet right of the hole, good putt.
Q.  Much break on that putt?
 CRAIG STADLER:  That one there was probably a couple feet right to left, yeah.
Q.  You were on the right side of the hole?
CRAIG STADLER:  I was pin high right, yeah.
Q.  You were in a similar position last year after the first round at the top of the leaderboard and fell off just a little bit.  What's your strategy going into the next three rounds?
 CRAIG STADLER:  Don't have any.  You know, I played yesterday, that was the first time I saw the golf course.  I obviously had a very good round today, good start, and you just keep trying to do the things that you've done every day.  There's no score to aim at, there's no strategy, you just go out and try to make birdies.

Last year the day I played 36 I made I think one birdie and one bogey and 34 pars.  I didn't really    it's just not that I didn't fall off, I hit the ball good, I just made nothing.  I putted good today and made putts when I had to, some good birdie putts.  You've got three days of golf left on a very good golf course, very hard golf course if you don't drive the ball well.  If you have a strategy, you just get it in the fairway, get it on the greens and make the putts.  That always works.
Q.  You said it's a very hard golf course.  Does it give you a special feeling to shoot a score like this on a course like this?
 CRAIG STADLER:  Yeah, the first time I played it I thought it was a fairly difficult golf course if you didn't drive the ball well.  I didn't drive the ball well in the practice round yesterday, so it was pretty difficult.

Like I said, I got it in play, got it in the fairways and hit a lot of good iron shots.  With the greens as soft as they are and holding as well as they are, if you get it in play and hit your irons good, you're going to have makeable birdie putts.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT