U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2004
Craig Stadler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
How about that back nine, huh?  Was the course substantially easier today, did you think?
 CRAIG STADLER:  No, actually I think the greens were a hair quicker.  You know, it played a bit longer.  There was no roll in the fairways actually.  I don't think it was in the easier.
Q.  Did you think it was tough to control the spin on the greens?
 CRAIG STADLER:  Yeah, the greens were a bit softer.  You had to pay a bit more attention where to fly your second shots because if you didn't get them over the crowns, you were 30, 40 feet back on the front edge, which happens a couple times, but the golf course was very playable.
Q.  Did you say the front nine was frustrating?
 CRAIG STADLER:  I guess frustrating is a good word for it when you play like crap for nine straight holes?  It tends to be a little frustrating, which I did.

I hit a decent second shot on -- somewhere (laughter).  7.  7 is the only good iron I hit.  I hit a nice 9-iron four, five feet left of the hole.  That's the only shot I got on the club facedown near the front nine.

I hit a pretty good second shot to 10 and got fortunate with a shot out of the rough on 11.  After that I made a lot of good swings.
Q.  How much of an ordeal do you expect tomorrow will be?
 CRAIG STADLER:  It's just going to be a long day.  It's not like we haven't done it before.  We've played 36 in warm weather like this, we played 36 at Colonial when it's been 100 degrees and 90 percent humidity.  This kind of weather you hang in there and try to pace yourself, and off you go.
Q.  Can you think of the last time you might have walked 36?
 CRAIG STADLER:  I think I had 28 holes on Monday at Louisville a couple months ago, which was probably about the same weather as this, hot and humid.  Not that hot, but humid.

I can't remember the last time I played 36 actually.
Q.  Do you think it will be a factor overall in determining the winner?
 CRAIG STADLER:  I'm sure it will be more of a factor out here than it would be on the regular Tour just from an age standpoint, but it's not like these guys aren't fit and ready for it.  They can handle it.
Q.  How many shirts do you think you'll go through tomorrow?
 CRAIG STADLER:  That's a front page question there, isn't it?  Atta boy.  More than one, less than three.  You make the call.
Q.  How about playing with Jacobsen tomorrow?  I would think you would be paired together?
 CRAIG STADLER:  Yeah, I would think we would be.
Q.  He was telling us you guys have been competing together since college and for a long time.  Do you remember when you've been paired together?
 CRAIG STADLER:  Couldn't count them, numerous times.  We've been very good friends for a long time.  It'll be fun.  I'm looking forward to it.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT