ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: TCU v WISCONSIN
December 30, 2010
Andy Dalton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: I think TCU has come a long way in just my time here. I feel like we put ourselves in a position the way we played over the last couple of years to play in a game like this, the way we started the season, being in the top 10, a couple years ago that never would have happened with TCU. It wasn't just us, it was Boise, too. 
 I think as some of these non-AQ schools have done has really opened things up in college football and let them know that these non-AQ schools can play with a lot of people. 

 Q. (Question regarding Oregon and Auburn.) 
 ANDY DALTON: It wasn't tough. All we could control was the stuff that we could handle. We weren't worried about anything else. Those are two great teams playing in the national championship game. They're well-deserving of that. 
 For us not to get the opportunity, I mean, it's not something we're disappointed about. We're playing in the Rose Bowl, the granddaddy of them all. We're excited about this game. 

 Q. Do you wish there were a playoff?
 ANDY DALTON: I mean, I'm not worried about it. I don't even know how any of that would work. I haven't looked into it. 

 Q. You have to think about that, though. 
 ANDY DALTON: I mean, obviously we'd like a chance at the national championship, to be ranked No. 1. That's not how the system works right now. Our focus is Wisconsin, going out and winning this game. Then I'm sure there will be some talk about that kind of stuff. 

 Q. Your chance to represent the non-AQ teams, you're going up against a team out of the Big Ten. 
 ANDY DALTON: We're not representing just TCU, we're representing all the non-AQ schools. I think ever since there's been the BCS busters, the non-AQ schools getting into the BCS games and winning, I think they've just been making a statement. 
 I mean, I'd say we're not just playing for us, we're playing for all those schools. 

 Q. Do you feel you're favorites even though you're the non-AQ in this game?
 ANDY DALTON: We're taking this game like every other game. We're going to go out and hopefully execute well, go with our game plan. 
 I mean, if we're the underdog, that's great. We're going to go in with the same attitude.

 Q. How has the week been out here?
 ANDY DALTON: It's been a lot of fun. There's a lot of events and things we've been able to go to. The Rose Bowl has been unbelievable just with all the different things, the accommodations they have for us. It's been a great week. 

 Q. Still kind of weird thinking you're TCU playing in the Rose Bowl?
 ANDY DALTON: We never thought we'd end up in the Rose Bowl just because of the Big Ten, PAC-10 ties. Once we knew we had a chance, we were excited to get the opportunity. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: That definitely wasn't one of the sales, but now we can. 

 Q. You won't be a non-AQ much longer. Where can this program go?
 ANDY DALTON: I think this program has improved every year. Just for us to get the opportunity to play in the Big East, obviously we've done some things right. Hopefully we'll make that leap better. 
 But, you know, I mean, that's the big thing for us, is just keep improving, getting better every year. 

 Q. How nice will it be for this program? 
 ANDY DALTON: I mean, I guess that's a selling point for recruiting, all that kind of stuff. Obviously the goal in the way we're playing football isn't going to change. We're going to try to go undefeated every year. 
 I don't know how much of a lift-off of the shoulders it is, but I guess it will be nice. 

 Q. (Question regarding legacy.) 
 ANDY DALTON: I've been so blessed to be with some great teammates, some great players. Our senior class, we feel like we've been able to accomplish a lot. I think we've helped get this program to where it is today. We can see it just getting better and better. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: I think so. I think this is the way that Coach Patterson, he's done a great job with the program, great job of coaching, recruiting, doing everything. 
 I can't see us dropping off. I feel like we're going to keep getting better. 

 Q. What is the story on the mascot? What do you think of it? 
 ANDY DALTON: Have you ever seen Super Frog? 

 Q. No, never. Have you ever even seen one before? 
 ANDY DALTON: I have. When we played in the Poinsettia Bowl a couple years ago, we went to the zoo. They came out and showed us a horned frog. It's not very big, but... 

 Q. Why does it work as a mascot? 
 ANDY DALTON: I don't know. I guess it's the state reptile or something like that. I think I guess when the school was being founded, there were a lot of horn frogs on the ground, so I think that's how it kind of struck. 
 I think when it gets cornered, it shoots blood out of its eyes. That's fierce. 

 Q. Do you have any frog dolls or stuff? 
 ANDY DALTON: I mean, I don't at my house. At my parents' house, they have a lot of horned frog stuff now.

 Q. Is that kind of weird? 
 ANDY DALTON: I mean, not really. I haven't really thought about it that much. Now that I've been at TCU for five years, it's just natural. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: I think so. I think a lot of alumni and even the players kind of take pride in that thing, having them here, having it go off when we score touchdowns, we run out on the field. Kind of a tradition for us. 

 Q. You seem to relish being different. 
 ANDY DALTON: I guess so. Horned frogs and purple, that's another thing that's a little different, too (laughter). 

 Q. You kind of like that? Players like coming in here non-traditional?
 ANDY DALTON: Yeah, for sure, we definitely like all of it. 

 Q. Do you feel this is a chance to show everybody you can play?
 ANDY DALTON: I think this is a great opportunity for us to show how well we can play and how good this team is. So, I mean, there's not a better stage than the Rose Bowl to show that. 

 Q. Are you disappointed you're undefeated, but you're not in the national championship game?
 ANDY DALTON: I mean, we're not disappointed. For us not to be in the national championship game, the alternative was the Rose Bowl. I don't think there's a game with more history and tradition out there. 
 We're just excited about the opportunity. 

 Q. Do you feel you're maybe the underdogs? You're favorites in the game, but Wisconsin comes from a bigger conference. Do you feel you're the underdogs?
 ANDY DALTON: I mean, I say we take that attitude just because they are in the bigger conference and we're out to prove something. I mean, it's not really are we the underdogs or the favorite, we're just going out and playing our game. 

 Q. You seem to handle the same questions really well. Do you have that script in your head? 
 ANDY DALTON: I feel like I know what to say. I feel like I've answered all the questions before, so... 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: When we were at Disneyland, we had the ceremony opening thing. I got to talk to him a little bit. I wish I got to talk to him more. It's fun to talk with other quarterbacks across the nation. I wish I would have got his number or something just to keep in touch with him. 
 Didn't get to talk with him very long, just a little bit. 

 Q. When you were doing the research on Wisconsin, did your glance at his numbers? The numbers are very similar with both of you guys. Similar backgrounds. 
 ANDY DALTON: Yeah, I'm a big college football fan. I'm always looking at a bunch of different guys. I had an opportunity to meet a lot of those guys, build friendships with them, all that kind of stuff. 
 You know, I've obviously looked at his numbers. He's leading the nation in completion percentage. He won the Unitas Award. He's done a lot of things and great things for that program. 

 Q. They compare you two very favorable, your ability to manage games, keep mistakes to a minimum, get the best out of your teammates. I would think that's a compliment. 
 ANDY DALTON: It for sure is a compliment. I think that's why both these teams are here. The way I guess he's played, he's done an outstanding job. He's got them in a position to be here. 
 It's going to be a lot of fun getting to play against him. 

 Q. Maybe it's cliché, but is it like looking in a mirror? 
 ANDY DALTON: The offensive styles are different. I mean, for the most part he does a great job. He's got a quick release getting the ball out of his hands, he's efficient. He does a great job. Hopefully I can play like he's played this year. 

 Q. (Question about being in the Rose Bowl.) 
 ANDY DALTON: When people ask me like, it's like, Are you kidding? We're getting a chance to play in the granddaddy of them all, the game with the most tradition, the most history. 

 Q. Is it getting to the point of just let's play the game?
 ANDY DALTON: I think we're ready to go. There's been a lot of time to prepare. I feel like we've been practicing for a month now. I think we're ready to get the game going. 

 Q. (Question regarding the offense.) 
 ANDY DALTON: The offense has changed in my time here. I think I came in and learned it pretty quickly. But I didn't have full control as I have now. I feel like I know all the ins and outs of the offense, why we're doing things, kind of know when things are going to get called. 
 I think they put a little bit more on me than they did early on in my career. 

 Q. The way you guys work, you do everything, the spread... Is that what makes you so effective, you do so many things?
 ANDY DALTON: We do a lot of different personnels, different formations, different things, motions, all that stuff. I think we put ourselves in position to hopefully confuse some other teams. It gives us an opportunity to have a big play. 
 I think that's why this offense has been so good. 

 Q. What is the one thing that sticks out about Wisconsin's defense?
 ANDY DALTON: They're big, physical, play really hard. I think that's why they've done so well this year is because they're playing with a passion out there. You can see that watching film. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: They've done a great job. I think it starts up front with the center, Jake Kirkpatrick. He's done an outstanding job, giving all the calls, making sure everybody is on the same page. That's a tribute to why they've played so well. Got a lot of good, solid players up there. They've done an outstanding job this year. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: Yeah, the coaches have asked me to do some things that they haven't asked me to do in the past. For me now to have some control of the offense, be out there, be able to check things has been nice because it puts us in a position to have a good play for what defense they're playing. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: I mean, I think it helps just so we can see how they play different things. But I think our style of offense is a little bit different than a lot of the teams in the Big Ten. I mean, obviously seeing the different formations that other teams are running is going to help us out. 

 Q. (Question regarding No. 99.)
 ANDY DALTON: Yes, he's a great player. We'll know where he is. 

 Q. Can you talk about your offense getting another chance after a year ago?
 ANDY DALTON: You know, we're excited to be here. We're excited to have this game to play better than we did last year. We didn't execute very well. That stuck in our minds this whole off-season, this whole summer, fall camp, through the season. 
 So we're excited to be in this position right now to show how we can go out and play.

 Q. Talk about the challenge getting to a game like this. 
 ANDY DALTON: Yeah, I mean, I think that's our goal going into every year. If you look in our team room, we have a pyramid, it says going undefeated, going to a BCS game and winning. I think that's one thing we knew we had to do it. It was on our minds from the beginning. All the hard work has paid off. 

 Q. A lot of pressure playing in it?
 ANDY DALTON: It's not a lot of pressure. It's what we expect of ourselves. We expect to go out and win every game we play. There's no added pressure. 

 Q. How would you compare that to when you got in the program?
 ANDY DALTON: I think when I first got here, it was kind of the same. We knew that for us to get a chance to even have a chance at a BCS game, we'd have to go undefeated, whereas the way we've played these last couple years, we've put ourselves in a position to be ranked really high, obviously get that opportunity. 
 To start this season off in the top 10, be up there, almost have a chance at the national championship game, I think that's where our program has progressed. 

 Q. One of the big story lines has been the Wisconsin rushing attack. Talk about your run game. 
 ANDY DALTON: We've been able to run the ball really well this year. We've had a lot of backs doing it. We've had some success. The offensive line has done a great job opening holes. Our runningbacks have been running really hard and making people miss. I think that's why our running game has been so good this year.

 Q. Do you think with that kind of story line the TCU running game is getting overlooked?
 ANDY DALTON: I wouldn't say it's getting overlooked. I think people in this game are more focused on the Wisconsin offense versus the TCU defense. But, I mean, I guess it's all part of it. It's the way it's been around here for a long time. The defense has played outstanding so they deserve all the credit. 

 Q. Seems like every year there's that one non-AQ team that puts the rest on their back, make the big Bowl game. Do you like being in that role?
 ANDY DALTON: We do. We're not just representing ourselves, we're representing all the non-AQ schools. We're going out to prove a point.

 Q. Does it make it any more special knowing TCU is going to be in the Big East soon? 
 ANDY DALTON: I guess it makes it special to see everything we've been able to accomplish here, being a non-AQ school. I think the Big East was a big jump for us. 

 Q. What do you see as your strengths compared to Wisconsin's offense and weaknesses? 
 ANDY DALTON: I haven't been able to watch them that much. All the film I've been watching is on the defense. I know he's been efficient. He leads the nation in completion percentage. He does a great job. I think he gets the ball out of his hands quick. I think that's kind of how he's similar. He gets it to his guys. 
 I really haven't watched enough to break down everything. 

 Q. What do you expect to see on the field when you meet him?
 ANDY DALTON: It will be good to talk to him. I saw him at Disneyland, got to talk to him a little bit.

 Q. What did he say?
 ANDY DALTON: We talked a little bit. We have a mutual friend in Kirk Cousins, the quarterback at Michigan State. I didn't get to talk to him very long just because of the way the ceremony is set up. 

 Q. Going up against Wisconsin, this is a team that TCU has short history with. What is it like going out on the field against them?
 ANDY DALTON: We're excited. They're a great team. It's going to be a lot of fun to go against them. You always see them on TV. Big Ten is always the early game on ESPN. It's always fun to watch. Now we get a chance to watch them, it's going to be a lot of fun. 

 Q. Any difference in how you approach this Bowl game compared to last year?
 ANDY DALTON: I don't think we prepared really any different. I think we're a lot more focused this year. We understand the task at hand. We're going out and we wanted things to be a little bit stricter because our ultimate goal is to go out and win this game.

 Q. How is the mindset different when you're going up against Wisconsin as opposed to another non-AQ team?
 ANDY DALTON: The mindset is not that much different. We're going out to prove a point, not just for us, but for all the non-AQ schools. So I guess that's the difference, is we're not playing another non-AQ, we're playing a Big Ten, automatic qualifying conference. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: Like I was saying, these seniors, the leaders on this team, knew how things went last year. Our ultimate goal was to win this game. That's why we wanted everybody to be focused and really on for this game. 

 Q. Did you talk to coach about that?
 ANDY DALTON: Yes, I was part of it. We have a leadership council. I think we kind of brought it up to him. We wanted to get up here a little bit earlier so we could be settled in and have an opportunity to get a little bit more practice time in. So, I mean, I think that's something that this leadership did. 

 Q. How many people are on that council?
 ANDY DALTON: Oh, geeze. 10 or 15 maybe, something like that.

 Q. Anybody not too happy with that decision?
 ANDY DALTON: No. 

 Q. What do you like from Wisconsin on tape? What do you see? 
 ANDY DALTON: Like I've been saying, they play really hard. They're big, they're physical. They're coached really well. They're good at what they do. I don't think they're out there trying to really do a lot of things to confuse and all that kind of stuff. Like I say, they're good at what they do and I think that's why they've been so successful. 

 Q. Everybody from coaches to friends have given you a piece of advice. What's the best piece of advice you got?
 ANDY DALTON: I mean, just be the same guy I've been this whole year. Just go out and play my game. There's going to be highs and lows in this game, because there's highs and lows in every football game. Be a leader. Just be levelheaded going out there. To be the calm in the storm when things aren't going the way we want it to. I guess that's the best advice I've gotten. 

 Q. You played in a big Bowl game last year so you have that experience. What is the key to playing in a game like this? How important are the first 10 minutes?
 ANDY DALTON: We can't press. We just got to go out and play our game. We don't have to be anybody different than what we've been this whole year. I think that's the big key for the game. 

 Q. You obviously watched T.J. Watt on tape. What is your take on him?
 ANDY DALTON: He's a great player. He's done an outstanding job. He's really physical, he's pushing people around. We'll know where he is on the field. 

 Q. Do you view the Rose Bowl as the best possible Bowl (indiscernible)?
 ANDY DALTON: We are very excited about this game with all the tradition, the history. You grow up watching the Rose Bowl, watching the New Year's Day game. It's a lot of fun to be able to say I'm getting a chance to play in the Rose Bowl. 

 Q. Can you see that you and your teammates are different from a year ago regarding the matchup?
 ANDY DALTON: Yeah, I think we've been a lot more focused this year. We've come out and have practiced really well. I think it's just a thing that the leaders on this team have done and Coach Patterson and the coaching staff have done. They've been on us. When it's time to work, we've worked. When it's time to have fun, we've had fun. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: I think on Monday when we got a chance to go over there and see the Rose Bowl, walking in the stadium, you can feel the tradition and the history. I think it will hit us once we arrive into the stadium that it's time to go. 

 Q. Your SID sent us over because he said you would know your opponent. Name the name of your opponent's mascot. The badger has a nickname. What is it? 
 ANDY DALTON: Oh, geeze. 

 Q. Sounds like 'lucky.' 
 ANDY DALTON: Bucky, that's right.

 Q. How many teams are in your opponent's conference?
 ANDY DALTON: 11. 

 Q. What is the closest conference road game for your opponent? 
 ANDY DALTON: Geeze. Purdue. 

 Q. Northwestern. 
 ANDY DALTON: Northwestern. 

 Q. Has your opponent produced a Heisman Trophy winner? Can you name him if so?
 ANDY DALTON: Ron Dane. 

 Q. TCU has the frog horn. That's a big thing for fans. What is the tradition that badger fans have?
 ANDY DALTON: Jump around. 
 I should have known Bucky. That one I should have known. 

 Q. Have any idea what it's going to be like when you step out on the field for the game on Saturday?
 ANDY DALTON: Obviously we won't know what it's like till we get out there. I have a sense of how it's going to be. It's going to be a lot of fun just to see the atmosphere. Hopefully there's a lot of purple there. I know there's going to be a lot of red there. It's going to be a lot of fun just to be in that game. 

 Q. Have you been out on the field? Are you worried about the weather or anything like that?
 ANDY DALTON: I'm not too worried about the weather. We've been out on the field. It's been in great shape. They said they're still going to cut it again. I'm sure it will be in perfect condition for the game.

 Q. It wasn't soggy at all?
 ANDY DALTON: It wasn't when we went out there. 

 Q. How has everything been here so far? 
 ANDY DALTON: It's been a lot of fun. Hospitality has been great. It's been fun to do all the different events, going to Disneyland, doing the Beef Bowl, the improv things. It's been a fun trip for us. 

 Q. (Question regarding the grass.)
 ANDY DALTON: We would. Plays to our speed. It would be nice if it's cut pretty short. I think it's going to be. 

 Q. Do you see this as a game of speed versus power?
 ANDY DALTON: I think that's how everybody is comparing it. We have a lot of speed on this team. They're obviously big, physical guys. Offense is power, running downhill. I guess that's the comparison with us. 

 Q. Do you see some speed on their defense?
 ANDY DALTON: They definitely have speed. Their back end, they're running around pretty well. It's going to be a great matchup for us. 

 Q. What's one thing about Wisconsin that you really didn't know?
 ANDY DALTON: Just the way they play. They play really hard. They play with passion. J.J. Watt has done an outstanding job for them this year. Just different little things we'll be ready for. 

 Q. (Question regarding the Big Ten.) 
 ANDY DALTON: We feel what we've done this whole year has put ourselves in a position to get to this game. Now it's time to go prove that we can play with anybody. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: I think so. I think this conference has gotten better every year. We keep improving. We've had an opportunity to play some really big, physical teams. I mean, I think the way we played some of the teams this year is going to help us out. 

 Q. (Question regarding scholarships.) 
 ANDY DALTON: I don't think a lot of guys on our team had offers from BCS teams. There's a lot of guys. But I think what Coach Patterson has done is find the guys that are kind of going under the radar, getting them here, putting them in a position to play really well. 
 I had UTEP, Memphis and TCU. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: Just the school in general. Had a great business school. Had an opportunity to play early. I felt comfortable. I loved Fort Worth. I mean, it was a perfect fit for me. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: Yes, I do. 

 Q. Do you like that?
 ANDY DALTON: I think it helps us out, not just keying on one guy. There's different things that we do where it gives me an opportunity to keep the ball. I feel like that's where I've gotten better over my years. I know when to keep it and when not to. 

 Q. What's at stake in this game?
 ANDY DALTON: This is a big game for us. We're treating it like it's any other game. We've prepared the same way we've prepared all season. Hopefully we'll go out and play like we played this whole season and hopefully get a win. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: It's what we have to do. You can't do anything different than we've done this whole year. What got us here is the way we played this entire year. We know we had to go undefeated to get to this point. So I think the way we've prepared this season, the way we've gone out and played in the games has really obviously gotten us to this point. So there's no reason to change anything. 
 We're not just representing ourselves, but we're representing all the non-AQ schools. We're showing a team like this can play in the big game. There's not a better opponent to play than Wisconsin. Hopefully go out and play really well. 

 Q. What's your perception of the success of this season?
 ANDY DALTON: I think we've been able to accomplish a lot. Our first goal was to go undefeated, win the conference. That was the first goal for us. We were able to accomplish that. Now to get the opportunity to play in the Rose Bowl, it's obviously something we're going to remember for the rest of our lives. 
 There will be a lot of it that will hinge off this game, but it's not taking anything away from what we've been able to accomplish. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: Being able to play high school kind of gets you ready. You play in front of big crowds. Obviously nothing like the stage we're about to be on. Just playing high school football in Texas I think gives you an opportunity to kind of get a glimpse of what it's like.

 Q. What other schools recruited you?
 ANDY DALTON: UTEP and Memphis.

 Q. That was it?
 ANDY DALTON: That was it.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 ANDY DALTON: I came up for a spring came. I came up for an unofficial visit in the spring. Went to a camp at my high school. Went to a camp up here in Fort Worth. Then they offered me a couple years later. 

 Q. How ironic is it that it's come this way, under the radar?
 ANDY DALTON: Nothing that I've focused on. I feel like I've been able to accomplish a whole lot. I feel blessed to be able to play college football at such a great university. God has blessed me so much and I'm so thankful. 

 Q. (Question regarding Andre.) 
 ANDY DALTON: I talked with Andre some when he was out here. Something didn't feel right for him. I just asked him, If you want me to talk to the coaches about transferring. I know we offered him out of high school. I think after he got his release, came down for a visit, I think he felt comfortable here. I think he's made a great decision. 
 He's closer to home, gets to see his family a lot more. I think it was easy for him to make that decision. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT