ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: TCU v WISCONSIN
December 29, 2010
Marcus Cannon
Andy Dalton
Jake Kirkpatrick
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. For Jake or either Marcus, I believe. The Wisconsin offensive line gets all the publicity. Do you guys take that as a challenge at all?  
 MARCUS CANNON: Well, you know, Wisconsin's offensive line is a really good offensive line. You know, I'm not too sure about taking it as a challenge, you know. Thinking about how good Wisconsin defense is, I think Wisconsin defense is more of a challenge because we're going against them the whole game.   
 JAKE KIRKPATRICK: Yeah. I mean what he said. They definitely deserve all the credit they get. You know, they're big, physical, athletic guys, so definitely don't want to take anything away from them, but yeah, all our focus is on the defense.   
  
  Q. Andy, can you talk about this week as opposed to last year's bowl week, and the difference for your team heading into this game?  
 ANDY DALTON: Going into last year's game, there was a lot of, I guess, unknowns, we'd never played in a BCS game before. So I think we've prepared a lot better.   
 You know, we've come out and been able to, you know, watch a lot of film, you know, just having the month to get ready, and so I think our preparation has been how it's been this whole year. And so hopefully we can go out and play like we played this whole year.   
  
  Q. Andy, when you first arrived at TCU, did you see yourself having the type of career you've had, and finishing off your career and taking your team and this program to the Rose Bowl.  
 ANDY DALTON: You know, we never thought we'd end up in the Rose Bowl, but we knew we had the potential to be really good. I knew with all the guys that we had that were around me, and you know, just the freshman class that we had my freshman year, we knew that we had a chance and the potential to be good.   
 So I think all the hard work has paid off, and we've prepared really well and gotten a lot better as we've been able to play for four years. So you know, all the experience has helped us out.   
  
  Q. Jake and Marcus, the question earlier was Wisconsin's O line and the size of it, but this is a big defense that you're going to be facing. Does it compare at all or do you guys get a bead on them by comparing them with someone you've played earlier in the year?  
 JAKE KIRKPATRICK: I mean I don't really look at comparing them. I think they got some guys -- I mean all of them play hard but a guy like J.J. Watts stands out, kind of like Oregon state's defensive tackle. But you know, not really one guy stands out besides him. I mean they all play hard. It's going to be a tough challenge for us. We definitely gotta give Andy some time to work.   
 MARCUS CANNON: I think it is kind of -- I think it does kind of help to kind of compare them to somebody we've played in the past, like I think -- I was thinking of their size as being closer to Virginia we played last year.   
 You know, they got a lot of big guys, and they were quick, you know. They like to grab and swing around you, and I think their speed's as good as a really good Utah team, like the one we saw the year before last or the year before that. They're real big and real fast, and I think it's going to be a nice little challenge.   
  
  Q. For any of you gentlemen, Auburn or Oregon is going to be named the National Championship, but if you win this game, you have the same record. You've won a major bowl game. Would you consider yourselves National Championships?  
 JAKE KIRKPATRICK: Go ahead, Andy.   
 ANDY DALTON: You know, I think that we did everything that we're capable of doing. You know, that's I guess kind of how we've taken this whole season is we can't control anything else. We gotta go out and just play our game and control what we can control. So you know, if we do end up undefeated, I don't see any reason why we wouldn't be national champions.   
  
  Q. Andy, sort of the flip side of that, since you were slotted for the Rose Bowl, have you heard any comments on TV or in the papers or anything about TCU not belonging in the Rose Bowl, that this isn't right, that TCU doesn't belong in a game like that?  
 ANDY DALTON: We haven't really paid attention to any of that stuff. We are honored and blessed to be in this game. We never thought we'd have the chance to play in the Rose Bowl because of the ties with the Pac-10 and Big Ten, but once we found out, everybody was pumped. Everybody was ready to go, and you know, to play a great team in Wisconsin, it's going to be a great challenge for us, but we're excited for the opportunity, and we've prepared really well.  
  
  Q. Marcus, this is for you. With Jake already being married and Andy engaged, do you feel any pressure being on that podium with them?  
 MARCUS CANNON: Well, you know, the funny thing is I'll be living with Evan Frosch here in a second, and both of them have lived with Evan. And it looks like I'm getting the top room, and both of them had the top room, so I think I'm going to move my room back to the bottom room. (Laughs). I think it's a trend in that house.   
 ANDY DALTON: Jake started out in the upstairs, and then he moved out once he got married, and I live upstairs now and am about to move out. So Marcus is about to move in. So there is some pressure.   
  
  Q. Kind of along the same lines as those BCS questions, as a non-AQ team, do you guys feel like you have something to prove?  
 ANDY DALTON: I think we have something to prove, not just for us, not just for TCU, but all the non-AQ schools. You know, we're really going out to show that these teams can play with anybody, and you know, hopefully the way we play in that game will show people that.   
 MARCUS CANNON: I totally agree with Andy, you know. Us being a small school, and so many people doubting us, you know, we have a lot to prove that, you know, us small schools, we can do something big.   
 JAKE KIRKPATRICK: Yeah. I agree. We're supposedly the little guys, you know, so we're trying to get some love for all those little schools.   
 THE MODERATOR: Any further questions? All right. Thanks, guys.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT