TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: TCU v BOISE STATE
January 1, 2010
Andy Dalton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about Boise State and the defensive challenge they pose to this offense?   
 ANDY DALTON: Boise State, they've got a great defense. They got big guys up front and a lot of athletes in their secondary. They play real hard, they're physical. So we've got to be on top of our game to play pretty well.   
  
  Q. Your first BCS game. What's the feeling like? What's it like for this team to be on the national stage on Monday night and show everyone across the nation what this program is all about?   
 ANDY DALTON: We're excited to have the opportunity we have, the kind of stage we are going to be on. We have a chance to go out and make a statement and let everybody in the nation know how we play.   
  
  Q. How confident is the team going into the game Monday night?   
 ANDY DALTON: I think we're very confident. We feel like we have had great preparation coming into this game. We've been preparing like we have each week. Hopefully it will show in the game.   
  
  Q. How much does last year's familiarity with Boise State, does that play a factor going into this game Monday night, Andy?   
 ANDY DALTON: I think so. You can go back and watch that film and take some things from it that we did good, where we struggled and hopefully improve on that. I think it helps out.   
  
  Q. This offense has been so dynamic all year, averaging 40 points a game. What's been the success of this offense this year?   
 ANDY DALTON: I think the team chemistry that we have, the great relationship that we have. I think we understand what each other is going to do, and we trust each other in every aspect of the game. I think that's one of the things that will help with our success.   
  
  Q. After Monday night, the winner of this game, does the winner have the right to say they own a share of the national championship?   
 ANDY DALTON: I mean, I think so. I think if we can come out to play and, you know, really make a statement in the game, I think people will see how these teams play.   
  
  Q. How is the Valley treating you? What do you think of Phoenix? How has the practice buildup been toward this game?   
 ANDY DALTON: We've come in and prepared hard. Practice hasn't changed from being here to being in Fort Worth. After practice, we get a little free time. We get to enjoy the city and relax a little bit.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT