ROSE BOWL GAME: IOWA VS STANFORD
December 29, 2015
Austin Blythe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Austin, you're a few days away, getting real close to game time.  Just talk about the general feeling of the team so far.  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: General feeling of the team is we're ready to go.  At this point practice is getting long, and we're focused on the game.  I think we're as prepared as we're going to get.  And we're ready to go.  We're ready to go play a good game.   
 Q.  Does it feel like a normal game week?  Are you guys doing, trying hard to make it into that?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, we're trying to make it as much of a normal routine as we can.  It's hard with it being a bowl game, just the nature of how it goes playing in a bowl game.  But we're really trying to stick to our routine, same practice schedule, same meal schedule.   
So we're trying hard to keep the same routine and we'll be ready to go.   
 Q.  How has your trip been so far?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: It's been fun.   
 Q.  What's your favorite part about it?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think just getting to hang out with your teammates when we have some downtime, especially the Disneyland trip, that was a lot of fun with some of the guys, just getting to relax a little bit, getting away from the football field and just to hang out.   
 Q.  Is it all that it's been cracked up to be so far?  Are you overwhelmed by all the spotlight, or are you embracing it?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think embracing it more.  Not really overwhelmed.  I think us older guys have been in a position like this before playing in a big bowl game.   
And we just need to stay focussed on the task and understanding it's still a business trip as much as it is a pleasure to be here.  But we just need to just keep our focus and play a good game on Friday.   
 Q.  What do you think the keys are to beating Stanford?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think just playing good, sound, fundamental game.  Coach Ferentz always talks about bowl games being kind of like a game, a first game of the year -- you need to be good penalty-wise, take care of the football.  And you need to score points.  You need to be disciplined, and I think that's what it's going to take to win this game.   
 Q.  Fosters or Freeze?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Freeze.   
 Q.  What's your favorite thing in the world to eat?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Cheeseburger.   
 Q.  What's your favorite place to be?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Florida.   
 Q.  So that answers my next question, beach or mountain?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Beach.   
We just got a big storm, apparently.  I just talked to my grandma, and my grandpa was shoveling out the driveway so they could make it to their flight this afternoon.  Because they bought one of those packages or whatever.  So it's a chartered flight.   
Apparently they were told if it's a chartered flight they shouldn't have any problem getting out.   
 Q.  In terms of the ticket demand, how are you guys internally?  I know the state, the school's gone crazy.  They tried to buy a bunch of Stanford tickets.  How are you guys handling the demand for tickets for this game?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: It is what it is at this point.  We got our allotted six per player.  And my family was fortunate enough to have some tickets through the athletic office.  So I didn't have to worry about it too much.  But I know some guys were kind of struggling to find tickets.  And that's a good thing to have this many fans interested and anxious to come to a game like this.   
And I think we got it resolved for the most part.   
 Q.  Quarter or semester schedule?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Semester.   
 Q.  You have classes after knowing you're going to the game?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, we did.   
 Q.  So were people asking you, that sort of deal?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: No, they weren't asking me.  But I'm sure some guys were getting some questions about that, yeah.   
 Q.  What's the level of fevered pitch for Iowa coming back after 25, 26 years, around the state?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think that the ticket situation speaks for that.  Just everybody's excited to be able to come to this game after 25 years.  And we're looking to get our first Rose Bowl win in 50 years or 58 years, whatever it is.  And just to have that excitement around the program is a lot of fun and to be able to represent this team is a lot of fun.   
 Q.  There was concern first in the BCS era and as we transitioned into this new playoff system that the Rose Bowl might lose some of the luster.  That doesn't seem to be the case with this game?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: No, not at all.  When you have two teams like us and Stanford playing each other, it's definitely not going to lose its luster -- two teams that play hard and play tough, physical football.  It's the kind of game we expect.  And this Rose Bowl is just as good as any other Rose Bowl that's come before us.   
 Q.  Tell me about C.J. He's had a really remarkable year.  But his numbers are not spectacular compared to some of the other national quarterbacks.  How would you describe his value to this team?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think bottom line he's just a competitor.  C.J., the way he competes is special.  I think his level of competition, the way he competes is on level with those guys you mentioned for national stats and stuff like that.   
He's the kind of guy that makes you want to compete at that 110 percent, every down, no matter what the situation is, and just the way he plays.  He's going to give it all for you, and that's the kind of quarterback you want to play for.   
 Q.  I know during the Pitt game, the running game wasn't really working that great, but he had a great game passing the ball, really bailed you out in that game.  Do you remember his performance in that game what his demeanor was like in the huddle, was it any different than any of the other games?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: No, his demeanor in that game was definitely not any different than it has been all year.  He just approaches the situation level headed and he goes out there and makes plays when he has to.   
I know in that game he had a couple of really big scrambles for us to make downs and that's the way it's been all year.  One play that really stands out to me was the touchdown he had against Indiana, jumping over the pylon like that when we knew what he was going through injury-wise.  That just spoke volumes to us as teammates, what he's willing to go through and what he's willing to put his body through in order to win.   
 Q.  You look around all this, this is a bit different than all of your other bowl experiences.  What do you think about all this?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: This bowl experience is definitely different.  But I think every bowl has its own experience.  And this one is certainly up there.  It's been a lot of fun getting to spend some time with our teammates and the rest of the senior group especially, just knowing that it's our last chance, and we haven't won a bowl game since we've been here.   
We've been really preparing and focusing getting after Stanford and finally winning one for us.   
 Q.  Does all the attention get overwhelming at some point?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: No, I don't think so.  I think the main reason it doesn't is because that's been our mentality and our focus the entire year is just taking it one game at a time and really focusing on what we can control and just doing those little details and doing it to the best of our ability.   
 Q.  How does this media day differ from the one way back in Iowa City in August?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: This is way different.  We didn't have these scaffolds with my pictures on it or anything like that.  So it's a lot different.  But at the same time it's just another thing that you gotta handle in order to prepare for the game on Friday.   
 Q.  And you guys have been, seems like every day you're talking to the media.  Talk, talk, talk.  You guys have got to be ready to play?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, absolutely.  I think we feel it mostly in practice.  I think we're ready just to play at this point.  We've done all we can.  We've really at this point it's been polishing.  There's nothing really new going in.   
So at this point we're just done with practice and we're ready to play the game on Friday.   
 Q.  C.J. said that he write songs, likes to play the guitar.  Did you know that about him, and is that a surprise?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I didn't necessarily know that he wrote songs, but I knew he could play the guitar.  Doesn't surprise me that he can write songs.  It's in his genes and in his blood with his dad writing so many good country songs.  That's just another hidden talent of C.J. Beathard.   
 Q.  Have you heard him play the guitar, has he played for the team?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: No, he's never played for the team.  That's a good idea.  I should have him do that before I leave.   
 Q.  The talk has mainly been about the Stanford offense.  You guys have a good offense as well.  Are you okay with kind of flying under the radar?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, I think this has been how it's been all year, really.  I know Coach Ferentz has said that since his 15 bowl games he's appeared in as a head coach at Iowa, I think we've been underdogs in all of them but two, I think one or two.  So that's just how it is at Iowa.  But it's not a dis or it's not like a lack of respect.  It's just who we are as a program and we embrace that.   
 Q.  I know you guys don't really care about stats or anything like that.  Stanford's defense allows almost six yards per carry.  You guys gotta be licking your chops the fact you have the O line you have and that as a factor?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think we're just really confident what we can do as an offense.  It doesn't really matter what defense is out there, what the stats are.  We're really confident in what we can do, and we're just going to go out and do it.   
We just need to execute to the best of our ability and those things will happen.   
 Q.  I know you are focusing on the game but as a senior going out at the Rose Bowl, it's got to be a dream come true?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, absolutely, it's a huge dream come true.  I remember talking with my family before I even started playing football at Iowa, when I committed, that I wanted to play in a Rose Bowl before I was done.  Here I am with this opportunity.  It's a great one.   
And we're really looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Question about C.J., was there any moment in the season where you guys felt like you had something special going, where you really seemed to hit your stride?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think probably the Northwestern game was where it really clicked for us and where we really understood what we could do as a team, especially with the injuries that we were dealing with, guys going down, guys coming in not knowing -- having that question mark of what's going to happen.  Just banding together as a team, getting it done as a team is really, I think, what opened my eyes to what we could do and where we could go as a team and here we are with an opportunity to play in a great bowl game against a great team.  And we're excited to go out and play on Friday.   
 Q.  When you mentioned the Northwestern game, guys going down, there's obviously been a string of bad luck for years at running back with injuries and that sort of thing.  Coming together when Jordan got hurt in the first half, what was that the end game for you guys up front?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think it was a really easy process because of the way we prepared during the week.  We knew if somebody went down the next guy would step in, do a great job.  That's just a testament to how we prepared all year.  Guys being on it in practice and understanding that their number could be called at any moment.  And LeShun was still banged up so Akrum had his number called and he was ready to go, obviously.   
He had a great game.  That's how we have been as a team all year.   
 Q.  Stanford has a reputation as being not the typical Pac-12 program.  Off-tempo teams.  Looking at them, do they remind you of any other teams that you see on a week-by-week basis?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Absolutely, I think Stanford would fit really well in the Big Ten.  They're a physical football team that tries to play physical, and you can see that on tape.  And they're a statistical Big Ten team and it's going to be a Big Ten fight.   
 Q.  Playing for Coach Ferentz, having an opportunity to get him a Rose Bowl championship, with his impressive resumé, how special is that for you?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: It's really special to be able to do this for Coach Ferentz or to have an opportunity to do this for Coach Ferentz because of what he does for us and us players, it's really special.  It's a guy you want to win for, a guy you want to play for, to be able to go out and have an opportunity to do this for him is something really special.   
 Q.  With Ferentz and how tight the coaching staff is with the players, is there anything that crystallizes that perspective?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think just the way he carries himself in practice and the hallways when you see him, when we're sitting down for meals when he comes up to us, it's just the way he interacts with us, and you can really tell he cares.   
I think he knows everybody's family member by name.  I don't think there's many coaches that do that.  Maybe there is, I don't know.  But Coach Ferentz is one of the best.   
 Q.  Talk about the experience thus far and preparing for this game and just being out here what it's been like?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: The experience has been a lot of fun.  Just getting to do it with this group of guys has been a lot of fun.  Just been practicing and preparing like they have been all year, and just being able to come out here experience it with these guys has been really special.   
 Q.  What's the most fun thing you've done outside of the football stuff?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think going to Disneyland and really experiencing some fun and enjoyment with these guys is probably the best part so far.   
 Q.  Stanford's defense, what do you see and what do you gotta do against them to be successful?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Just a group that plays hard and plays tough.  That's typical of Big Ten teams.  So you know we're ready for a Big Ten fight just like we've had all year.  Every game for us in the Big Ten has been a battle.  And you don't expect nothing less from their defense coming off.   
 Q.  A little time off when you get back to practice.  You guys getting back in the rhythm.  Is that going pretty good?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, it is.  At this point we're just ready to go.  I think we've prepared all we can and at this point it's just polishing and we're really ready to go and focused on Friday.   
 Q.  Big stadium and all that, you guys are used to that and the pressure of big games now, too, aren't you?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, definitely.  I think we've had our fair share of experience with big games, Big Ten Championship Game is one.  The Northwestern game was one.  The Indiana game was one.  Every game was an elimination game for us towards the end of the season.   
And all those were big games.  So we've got our experience in big games, and Stanford does as well.  So it will be a good game.   
 Q.  The Rose Bowl growing up, was that something that you kind of looked at as being from Iowa and that?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Absolutely.  I knew the history of it, the tradition of the Rose Bowl, and Iowa not being there for so long, 25 years now.  So it's really special to be able to play, to represent the Big Ten and represent the University of Iowa in the Rose Bowl game and we're really excited to go out and play.   
 Q.  Coach Davis talked about installing the game plan before you left Iowa City.  Was that a difficult adjustment for you guys to get everything ahead of time and now you're polishing, as you said?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Not really.  It's kind of like a bye week.  We got a bonus week, if you will, just preparing for Stanford and before we left Iowa City we really got a good jump on them.  And like I said we've just been polishing since we got down here.   
And at this point it's just, I think a lot of guys are just ready for the game.   
 Q.  Has it been an adjustment to get on the bus to practice, getting back on the bus to come back, all of the hoopla?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, I think anytime you kind of go away from your team a little bit there's going to be some sort of adjustment, and I think we've made that adjustment well.  I think we've just been doing it all year really, just making little adjustments when we needed to and really handling those well and this bowl trip isn't really any different.   
 Q.  Is there a message you have to tell the younger guys what to expect, how to carry themselves as a team leader?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: No, I don't think so.  I think we've done a good enough job throughout the year that we don't have to at this point.  Younger guys are really starting to understand what it takes to be good and just see it by example.   
So it hasn't really been too big of a deal.   
 Q.  Now, you talked earlier about like a bye week, getting ready for the bowl.  As a fifth-year senior, though, how can you improve your game?  I know that time is really for younger guys to develop.  But where did you look to improve during that time?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Where I looked to improve is just continuing to be a better leader and really help focusing on what I needed to focus on, which is fundamentals, things they don't necessarily see from a spectator point of view.  But I can see on tape.   
So just continuing to work on that, nobody's ever perfect, everybody can improve.  You're either getting better or you're taking away from yourself.  So just really trying to improve and this year's no different.   
 Q.  Talk a little bit about your offensive line.  How do you guys feel about that as a line and how you match up against Stanford in that regard?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think we match up well with anybody, really.  That's our mentality.  Our mentality is to go in, play our game of offensive football.  And this is no different.  We've been preparing like we have been all year, and we expect to shine on Friday.   
 Q.  How special has this season been as a senior, having one of the best seasons in Iowa football history and a potential Rose Bowl win.  Talk about the season in general.  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: It's been really fun.  It's been special to go through it with this group of guys, especially the seniors that we've been here with for five years.  And to go out on top like this hopefully with a Rose Bowl win is going to be really special.   
 Q.  Any special vindication for Coach Ferentz, a lot of people called for his job in the offseason.  Any incentive to win it for him so he has that under his name, under his legacy?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think so.  It just adds to the season really, wanting to do it for Coach Ferentz, wanting to do it for what his legacy is.  And just to be able to do it like I said with this group of guys is so special.  We've been working for so hard for so long, it would be a shame not to finish.   
 Q.  We drove out here from Iowa.  We passed a lot of Hawkeye cars with decals and license plates and stuff.  What's it's been like to have that kind of fan support, because it's a long trip out here.  Flying is expensive.  What is it like that to have that kind of fan support?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: It feels really good especially as an athlete, playing, representing this university, just to have that support.  It's been great all year.  We've got the best fans in the nation.  They proved that in the Big Ten Championship Game.   
And I think we expect that to continue this week.   
 Q.  Do you think the legacy you guys can leave behind is in play?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: We haven't really talked about it too much but I think we're all aware what the tradition has been for Iowa for Rose Bowls.  We haven't been here in 25 years, haven't won a game since '58, I know.  Coach Ferentz was just 3 years old when the last time Iowa won a Rose Bowl game.   
It's a huge deal.  We need to be prepared and focused on this game on Friday in order to get the win.   
 Q.  Is it hard to believe how long it's been since Iowa won a Rose Bowl?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, it's hard to believe.  There have been a lot of good Big Ten teams that have played in the Rose Bowl.  And Iowa is in there a little bit.  And to be here this year, playing in this bowl game this year is really special.   
 Q.  Having some time to move on after the heart breaker to Michigan State, how was that process, how hard was that to move on and focus on this task at hand?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: That loss hurt a little bit.  It stung.  We kind of let it sting a little bit.  And just in order to move on we had to watch the tape, put it to bed, correct the things that could be corrected and really focus on playing in a really good bowl game against a good team.   
 Q.  In that game, a lot of the national doubters kind of said, Iowa is a legitimate team.  Do you think this team has something to prove still?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, I think you need to prove something every game, whether you've already proved something in public opinion or not.  It's just another opportunity to go out and get better and another opportunity to go play a really good team.   
 Q.  Talk about the emotions that you feel.  Once you step out on to the field January 1, your emotions, talk about how you'll feel emotionalized.  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think it will feel a little bitter sweet, just the feeling knowing that's my last game as a Hawkeye.  But at the same time playing in a game like the Rose Bowl against a really good team like Stanford, it's going to be really fun.  It's going to be really special to do it with all these other seniors.   
 Q.  As far as your career, what has the highlight been thus far?  Will this be the capstone for your career?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, I think this entire season has really been the highlight.  And winning the Rose Bowl would certainly put the cherry on top, just being able to do this with this group of guys that we've been working together for so long, working towards a goal like this, it will be awesome to be able to top it off.   
 Q.  Thus far how has the experience been with all of the sideline activity?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: It's been a lot of fun, the experience has.  Just doing it with this group of guys is what really makes it special.  We're a tight knit group, to be able to come out and experience some of that with these guys has been fun.   
 Q.  What's been the highlight thus far?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think going to Disneyland was probably the best part so far, just being able to get away from football and spend time with the guys and just relax.   
 Q.  What do you sense the focus of this team at this point in time?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think the focus of this team right now right now at this point in time is sharp.  I think at this point we're just ready for the game, kind of over practice.  At this point we're just polishing up our plays and our fundamentals and just focused and ready to go on Friday.   
 Q.  As a player and as a person, what is your motivation inspirationally?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think doing it for Coach Ferentz, doing it for a guy like that.  The way he carries himself is admirable, the way he deals with his players, the way he interacts with us, the way he cares about us as players and people is just remarkable.   
It's the kind of guy that you want to play hard for.   
 Q.  You're from Iowa, you dream of being on this stage, does it feel even real that you're on this stage at this point?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, it does.  I think I've done a good job keeping a level head and understanding what we're here to do.  And it is a business trip.  We're here to play in the Rose Bowl against Stanford and come out with a victory.  And I haven't been too star struck yet, but I think running out of the tunnel on Friday is going to be really fun.   
 Q.  Have you just imagined that, have you caught yourself going, the mountains and the scene and all that?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I have, I think that will come when we run out of the tunnel.  Everybody has to do a good job and focus on what's in front of us, and that's beating Stanford.   
 Q.  I think people speak about Christian McCaffrey and not much else.  They don't know what else.  What do you see when you look at that on film?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think they've got a good quarterback.  They've got a good supporting cast.  They don't win 11 games without having good players other than one.   
Obviously Christian McCaffrey was a finalist for the Heisman but they've got plenty of other playmakers, and defensive-wise they've got a lot of guys that play together.  That's what the defense is, swarming to the ball and making plays, and that's what they do well.   
 Q.  The first reaction would be they're a little like Michigan State.  Is that accurate?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, sure.  I think they're just like I said -- typical Big Ten team.  They play hard, they play tough, they play sound football.  They take care of the football, and they score points.  That's what it takes to make a good team and they're it.   
It was kind of crazy, I wasn't sure what to think, I was at Big Ten media days, it wasn't near this.  It's a different experience, for sure.   
 Q.  I was told that after Ferentz got the national Coach of the Year award you guys had a presentation for him after a practice.  Can you talk about that?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, it wasn't so much a presentation.  But we just wanted to mention what he has accomplished this year and he's always -- one thing he always says is that we're happy for other people's success.   
And as teammates and just a group of guys that cares for a coach, we wanted to recognize him for what he's done and just to be able to do that for him is really special just because of the way he cares for his players.   
You can really tell that he cares and he's invested in us as players and people, and to be able to do that for him was really special.   
 Q.  You gave him a football or something?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: No, we just mentioned it.   
 Q.  Just mentioned it after practice?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah.   
 Q.  How did it go down?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Actually, I stood up at the end of practice, Coach Ferentz asked if there's any announcements, like he normally does after practice.   
 Q.  For the players to speak up?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: No, just like if Coach Doyle has an announcement or somebody like that has an announcement.  I just stood up and I said we're happy for other people's success, like coach said, and he was named the Big Ten Coach of the Year and all that stuff.  And to be able to do that for him was really special for me just because of what he's done for me as a player and to be able to do that for him was special.   
 Q.  And what was the team's reaction upon that?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think they appreciated that.   
 Q.  I mean was it like an ovation?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, it was.  It was.  I think that's why we've been good every year.  Everybody understands what we're playing for and we're really together in that aspect and to be able to do this for Coach Ferentz as a team was really special for everybody.   
 Q.  When would that have happened, roughly?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Right after the Big Ten awards were announced.   
 Q.  Was that for the Big Ten Coach of the Year?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yes.   
 Q.  Then he gets national coach of the year.  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: That's a good point.  We need to bring something together for our banquet in February, whenever it is, to really recognize what he's done, and it's well deserved.   
 Q.  How was media day?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Fun, a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Last media event for you, sad to see this go?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Not necessarily sad, but, yeah, it'll be different not having any of these obligations anymore.   
 Q.  Being in the Rose Bowl, something okay being here, having to put up with it?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Absolutely, if this is the worst thing that comes with playing with the Rose Bowl, I'd take it all day.   
 Q.  What have the questions been like today?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: They've been good.  Really football focused and nothing too silly.   
 Q.  How are you feeling today?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Feeling good.  I think the team is ready to go.  We're focused and prepared and we're really excited for the opportunity we have on Friday.   
 Q.  They have a good running back.  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think that's a question for one of the defensive guys over there.  For the most part I've really been focused on Stanford's defense and what we can do to make some yards against their defense.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your season so far?  I know you guys had a bit of a disappointment at the end.  How were you guys able to bounce back, so to speak?  What did the coach say to you guys to get you guys refocussed on the Rose Bowl?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: This season, first off, has been one that I'll never forget, obviously, just for many reasons -- guys on the team, the way we've played, the results of the season, what it culminated into.   
In terms of bouncing back after a loss like we had in the Big Ten Championship Game, we let it hurt for a little bit.  I think we needed that.  And once we got focused or once we found out that we were playing in the Rose Bowl that's kind of when it turned and we needed to understand we were playing a really good team and we would have an opportunity to play in a bowl like this.  And preparing for Stanford has been fun, especially with this group of guys, and we just had to focus and realize the kind of opportunity that we had playing in a Rose Bowl and playing against a team like Stanford.   
And at this point practice is getting kind of old, just doing the same thing over and over again for nine, ten, 11 practices so far, and we're just ready to go and play the game.   
 Q.  At what point did you guys think it was going to be a special season for you guys?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think I answered that question earlier.  I think the Northwestern game.  I think just what we had to go through injury-wise, guys going down, guys stepping in, I think that's when we realized what we could do, especially team-wise -- just guys coming together, focusing on what we could control and doing the little things right and just playing for each other.  And I think that's what the Northwestern game showed us and we just carried it through the rest of the season.   
 Q.  Talk about the challenges that Stanford poses for you guys, for your team.  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: They're just a sound, fundamental defense that plays tough, smart, hard.  That's typical of a Big Ten team.  And we've had plenty of experience with that.  But Stanford is going to bring it all.   
 Q.  Going through the conference that you guys have gone through, how does this prepare for you the Rose Bowl for a team like Stanford?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think playing in the Big Ten Conference has really prepared us well for a team like Stanford just because of the way they play, the way they try and play, that's evident on tape.  They fly around and they love to make plays and we need to make opportunities for ourselves to go score points.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the athleticism of your team, because there's a lot of talk that you guys may not be as athletic, but talk to me about that if you can.  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Sure, we might not be as athletic, might not be as big or as fast, but I think one thing we do really well is play as a team, play for each other, and we play smart.  We play sound.  We don't try and do too much outside of our duties.  We gotta trust the guy next to us.  I think that's why we've been so good this year.   
 Q.  As one of the leaders of the team what did you say to your guys your teammates after that loss?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: For me, you know, I took that loss pretty hard.  But the next day or the next time we were out on the practice field, I think it was just my job, C.J.'s job, Drew's, Jordan's job, to get guys to understand that we had a really good opportunity in front of us to go get win No. 13.  That's what we're working hard for and we're ready for Friday.   
 Q.  I just got to talk to James Daniels a little bit.  He said you're his roommate during the year, not this week, obviously.  But what's that been like rooming with a guy who was 17 starting the year?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: It's been a lot of fun.  It kind of shocks me how much older I am than him.  I think I'm a full five years older than he is.  Just to be able to try to give him some of my experience and some of my wisdom.  That was imparted on me by James' parents when I got here, kind of just trying to pay it forward in that respect, and hopefully I've done that.  I don't know.  You'll have to ask him.  But I think that's just been my goal rooming with him, trying to help him along his freshman year and really prepare him for starting next year.   
 Q.  Do you see him as -- I just talked to Brian [Ferentz, offensive line coach] -- seems like they want him to be center.  Do you see him as a center?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, I think so.  But that's something that the coaches have to tell you for sure, obviously.  I'm not going to be here next year.  I won't have a say in that obviously.  Never did when I was here anyway, either.  But I think James is really a good athlete.  A perfect fit for center.  Just the way he does it in practice, you see him when he takes center reps, he's so natural at it.   
And it will be interesting to see what happens next year.   
 Q.  What does this last game mean for you?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: This last game means a lot.  To be able to come out here to California with this group of guys, this group of seniors, especially, knowing that we've worked as hard as we have and for it to culminate in this has been a lot of fun and we haven't had a bowl win, us seniors haven't, since we've been here.  So we're working really hard, really focused on that to go out of here with a victory.   
 Q.  Sounds like you guys haven't had any bad practices in front of your coaches.  That focus, is it hard to keep it even with all these distractions like today?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: No, I don't think it's really too hard.  I think we haven't had a bad practice, in my opinion, but it was just really kind of refocusing, honing our skills again because we were off for a little bit, just shaking the rust off a little bit.   
Football is a game of repetition, really.  You need to practice.  And for us getting back into the rhythm was key for us and now at this point I think we're as sharp as we're going to get.  It's just really focus on what we've got in front of us on Friday.   
 Q.  And you got to stay with your wife this weekend.  How's that been?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: It's been a lot of fun.  We were able to spend our first Christmas together since we've been together.  Been together five years now -- or four years, and to be able to spend that with her, to share that with her has been a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Did you request that or did someone come to you and say do you want to stay with your wife?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Someone came up and asked me about it.  It's hard to pass up.  But at the same time I thought about it being my senior year, wanting to spend it with the guys, but at the end of the day it was a no-brainer.   
 Q.  Anybody teasing you about that or anything?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Oh, yeah, for sure.   
 Q.  I figured.  Where do you see yourself after this, NFL, right?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: That's my dream.  After the season I'm going to start training for it.  We'll see what happens.  I'm going to work hard like I've always been doing.  It will play out like how it will.   
 Q.  What do you think you need to do to be ready to play at that level?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think I just need to really show that I can carry more weight.  I'm not the biggest guy.  I think people are going to try to knock me for that.  But if they turn on the film, I don't think my size has really hindered me too much.  But at the same time I can always get better fundamentally, technically, that's something that I'll be focusing on throughout the spring and going into hopefully mini camps and stuff like that.   
 Q.  What's your weight at right now?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I'm about 285, 290.   
 Q.  What's your target weight, where do they want you?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I've talked to Coach a little bit about it, I think I need to show that I can get up to 300.   
 Q.  Do you think you can?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think I can.  Whether or not I'll stay there, I don't know.  That's something I'll have to talk with the coaches.  Haven't really talked too extensively about it but I think it's something that I need to prove to show that I've got some size at least.   
Practice is old at this point.  Same opponent for so long.  Especially like towards the end of the season, it's just you want to go out and play, just tired of practice.   
 Q.  How long have you been practicing?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: We've been practicing all week.  We're using the StubHub Center, and we're actually on the last day of practice for our normal game week that we normally do in Iowa City.  So we're getting there.  Getting close.   
 Q.  Tell me about Brian Ferentz. You've been working with him this whole time here.  Do you see traits in him that are reflective of his dad?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, absolutely.  I've said it before, and I'll say it again, he's just one of the smartest football guys I've been around.  Not that I've been around a ton.  But just the way he communicates with us and talks about the game of football, offensive-wise, defensive-wise is just incredible.   
I'm always amazed at how much knowledge he has about the game for how young he is in respect to his dad or other coaches on the staff.  And the way he carries himself is a lot like a head coach but he's got a lot of his own traits, too.   
In my opinion, I think he's a lot more fiery than the head coach, a lot more intense.  Really pushes the guys, pushes us to be the best and he's just a great coach.   
 Q.  He's 32 and his dad is 60 or 61.  Maybe you expect that maybe Kirk was a lot more like that as a younger guy?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah, that's probably true.  I don't know if age is mellowing him out or anything like that.  But Coach Ferentz can certainly get intense and fiery when he wants to.   
I guess it's not really a shocker or you don't have to look too far to see where Brian gets it.   
 Q.  You talk about that intensity, Sean Welsh is talking about his competitiveness, what to you makes him most enjoyable to play for him?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think he's as invested as anybody else.  Just as invested as we are as players.  He really wants us to play as well as he can and play a perfect game, if you will, not that it's ever going to happen, obviously we're going to make mistakes and things he can correct, just the way he wants us to compete, the way he pushes us to compete is really what makes him the coach that he is.   
 Q.  It's been a while since you guys have been on a stage like this.  How do you imagine the emotions?  How do you balance such an active week with everything going on?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: We have to understand what's got us to this point and focusing on what we can control and doing the little things well, doing the little things right day in, day out and continuing to do that no matter what the distractions are.   
Obviously it's a different experience here at the bowl game.  It's different than just a normal away visiting trip.  And we've really got to handle that well and focus on controlling what we can control throughout this week.   
 Q.  Is it easy to get distracted on a week like this, easy to -- you've got Disneyland and --  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Certainly there's a lot of distractions that can get to players.  And I think we've really done a good job handling those, understanding what we're here for, that's playing in a really good bowl game against a team like Stanford.   
 Q.  When was the last time you were actually nervous for a football game?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Believe it or not, I was somewhat nervous for the Big Ten Championship Game.  I think as a competitor you're always going to have that anxiousness.  Not necessarily nervousness, I guess, because you know you're prepared, you know your coaches have done what they can do to prepare you and so just anxiousness is really what you feel.   
 Q.  What kind of emotions are you anticipating when you step out on to the field and take in the whole experience?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think a lot of the things I felt in the Big Ten Championship Game, you're just ready to go, you've just got to trust yourself but at the same time it's going to be bittersweet I think knowing it's my last game as a Hawkeye and not having another opportunity to play as a Hawkeye is really what's going to motivate me to really play my best.   
 Q.  What question have you been asked over and over again:  How was Disneyland?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I haven't got that one too much.  Probably like how are you handling the distractions.   
 Q.  Like people are asking you --  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: No, no, like just all the events that don't come normally with a normal away game.  But it is what it is, goes with the territory.   
 Q.  The pre-week stuff?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: The events?  Yeah, definitely.  Like we never -- we were at the Taxslayer Bowl last year and not even close to the events we've been able to go to this week.   
 Q.  [On the pre-week activities...]  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: That was fun.   
 Q.  What kind of activities did you guys do?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Not much else, actually.  So we're at the practice facility for three, four hours then got plenty of time to do whatever.  It hasn't been bad.   
 Q.  When did you know that you had something special going on with this football team; what would be the defining moment for you?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: I think our win over Northwestern before our bye week, in week seven, I think.  That stretch of games to Wisconsin, Illinois, Northwestern was really big for us as a team and really showed us what we could do as a team, playing as a team, playing for each other and going to the Northwestern game we had some question marks injury-wise, we had some guys go down and we needed some other guys to step up and they certainly did.  We played a really good game and I think that really opened our eyes to what we could do if we kept playing.   
 Q.  What was that feeling like on the bus ride home that day?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: It was a lot of fun knowing we could be the best we could be going into a bye week, have some time to unwind and regroup for a big push in late October, November.  That's championship football in the Big Ten and we did a really good job handling that and carried it on through bowl season.   
 Q.  What would a win in this game do for this program going forward?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: A lot for the program.  A win would set us apart from any Iowa team that's ever been here, really raise the bar for the Iowa standard.  And we're really looking forward to having this opportunity.   
 Q.  (Question by Derrick Mitchell) So what do you think the keys are to win the game this week?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Not getting Derrick Mitchell the ball.   
 Q.  Going to get the ball to LeShun?  
AUSTIN BLYTHE: Yeah.   
 Q.  What about me in particular, how do you like Derrick Mitchell as a third down back?  
 A. He's the best one we've got.  (Laughter)   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT