NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: FINAL FOUR
April 5, 2016
Quentin Hillsman
Alexis Peterson
Brittney Sykes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UConn - 82, Syracuse - 51
THE MODERATOR: Joining us on the dais from Syracuse, head coach Quentin Hillsman, student-athletes Brittney Sykes and Alexis Peterson.  We'll open with a comment from Coach Hillsman and then we'll take questions from the student-athletes.
COACH HILLSMAN: Well, you know, you come here to win a game.  I thought that at first we played pretty good, but we just got to be able to rebound the ball and do just little things that you have to do to beat great teams.  A lot of times it comes down to those things, rebounding the ball, getting your pressure set, running in transition, and we had some troubles doing that.
But the troubles come from UConn.  They're just a great basketball team.  And they really move the ball, did a pretty good job of attacking on pressure.  I thought one of the keys for us, we took care of the ball pretty good.  Only had 12 turnovers.  They had 17.  We took care of the ball decently.  I thought we did a pretty good job up front.  We tried to attack the rim and get to the foul line.  I don't think we got enough easy shots, free throws.  We missed a ton of 3s.  A lot is because of their length and athleticism and they took us out of some things we really wanted to do.
Not shocked by how good they are.  I'm not shocked about the things that they did in the game, and we were definitely unprepared for it.
And one thing that I told our kids in walkthrough today, I said:  You have no reason to be scared when you are prepared.  So go compete.  And we were prepared.  And we competed.  And we definitely didn't play scared.  It was a very tough basketball game.
I thought our kids left it all on the floor.  We stayed with what we do.  We pressured them, got the lead down to 17 and had a couple of stumbles.  You get two or three more stops, it's a different basketball game.
But this is a great basketball team, and there can be so many different story lines, but I'm really happy for Breanna Stewart.  I remember she came to my camp ninth grade, watched her grow up and be the kind of player that she is and to -- she's just a great player and just a great kid.
And we talk about a kid being that good from Syracuse, it really doesn't happen that often.  So give her a lot of credit.  Really happy for her and really proud of her and all the things that she's accomplished.
But tell you right now, we don't get to this point if not in the best conference in the country.  Our conference got us prepared.  If you don't play in the ACC, you probably go out there and lay down.  We saw some teams lay down to UConn this year, and our kids didn't lay down.  They competed because we compete every night in our conference.
Give UConn a lot of credit for winning the national championship, and we can get it again next year.
Q. Brittney and Alexis, as Coach alluded to, you had that lead and you trimmed it down with the 16-0 run.  What was -- talk us through how you were getting that confidence in that stretch of the third quarter?
BRITTNEY SYKES: Well, we had confidence the whole game.  And coming into that third quarter, Coach was talking to us during halftime, and he just told us the things that we needed to do in order to cut into the lead and just chip away every four minutes.
So when we were going into that third quarter, we knew we had to pressure them, get on the ball and get those deflections and those steals to turn them over, and also just get the ball back so we can score more.
Q. Brittney, you came in with a class that accomplished some terrific things here, some landmark things for the program.  I know it's fresh after a tough loss, but can you put it in perspective what you guys accomplished and what it's going to mean for the program?
BRITTNEY SYKES: It's only the beginning.  We've been building these four years, and you want to get to this level and you want to get back here.  So we're just going to keep building.  And just like Coach said, we're going to get back to the national championship game and try to win it again.  That's what you want to do when you have the type of players that the coaching staff recruits.
Q. Alexis and Brittney, how do you get back here, and does it help now that you understand what it takes?
ALEXIS PETERSON: I think we get back here by just teaching our young kids the focus, the type of time that it takes and the energy that you have to have and the will to get here, because this is something that is very hard to do.  So we just have to lead by example and get everyone to buy into what we're trying to do.
Q. Alexis, when you were walking off the court, waving to the crowd, what was going through your mind at that point?
ALEXIS PETERSON: Well, I just wanted to thank them.  They've been terrific.  And they've supported us when we didn't have the belief of anyone else.  And they all came out and they traveled miles and miles away to be here.  And they were great.
So we wanted to thank them because we had a lot of alum here today and this last couple of games, and so they meant just as much to this program as we do.  And it was just a great feeling just to see that no matter what, win, lose, or draw, they still have our backs.
Q. What is it like coming into a game like this where it seems like the whole sports world has you as the underdog?  What did it feel like to you guys?
ALEXIS PETERSON: That's just basically it.  You just feel like the underdog.  And you know you don't have the belief that you can win.  And, I mean, you just take it and you run with it.  And UConn's a great team.  And we knew that we had a great opportunity, and no one thought we would be here at this point.  So we're just forever grateful we're still blessed that we had this opportunity that not many get to have.
Q. Brittney, obviously you start the game, you're pumped up.  UConn's been here before.  This is new for Syracuse.  UConn did a lot of things right forcing some situations but looked like a lot of shots were just a little bit off and some turnovers.  Was it nerves or what they were doing?  Did the first quarter and first half -- take us through what wasn't quite going your way.
BRITTNEY SYKES: I don't think it was nerves at all.  We came into the game confident, just as UConn would.  And we were just rushing some shots.  And then we weren't really in our defense settle and we had to crash the boards.  Once we started to get the flow of the game and we understood what we needed to do and what wasn't working and what was working, then the flow of the game started to go to our pace and we started to get those stops and those baskets.
Q. It seemed like there were a number of moments during the game where you were almost trying to make a point about being in the competition and being part of it.  Brittney, you had this block midway through the second quarter, you punctuated it by pointing and pointing to your teammates, and, Alexis, that tie-up in the fourth quarter as well, I'm just wondering how much of the emphasis for both of you was on making sure, look, other teams may have had the opportunity to lie down against UConn, but the way Coach said, but that was not what was going to be what Syracuse did?
BRITTNEY SYKES: That's not Syracuse basketball.  We're not fearful of anyone.  Like Coach said, when you prepare, you don't have anything to fear.  You go in with confidence.  And we knew going into the game who UConn was and we knew who we were.
So we were playing that game.  We had all the confidence in the world.  And no matter what the score was, we looked at it as an opportunity to get better, and we just kept fighting and we kept competing because that's what we do at the end of the day.
ALEXIS PETERSON: Just to piggyback off what she said, we're doing what all tough teams do, and tough teams, they don't fight and give up.  We're not going to quit regardless of the score.  We're going to fight.  And Coach Q said just tough it out and keep playing.  And we're a family.  We stuck it out together and we played together.  We ended it together.
Q. Brittney, at the end of the game, you were standing at the sideline.  What were you thinking at that point?
BRITTNEY SYKES: I was just taking in those last few seconds on the clock to realize what we've accomplished this year.  You see the clock winding down, and you realize that you lost the game, but at the same time you think in a positive mindset to -- that gives you ammunition to get back to that spot.
And we're going to forever remember this feeling.  And next season we want to get back here so we can change that feeling and know how it feels to win a national championship.
Q. Brittney, they won six tournament games by an average of 37 points.  And you saw them up close and personal today.  I mean, you guys were a great team.  But just how much better are they than everybody else you've played?
BRITTNEY SYKES: Well, you know, credit to UConn and Geno and their players.  They know how to score the basketball.  And they're just an efficient team.  And that takes a lot of years to get to that level, and Geno has built that program and he's recruited those type of players.
And just credit to them at the end of the day.  There's a lot of great teams out there; there's no one great team.  They're just special.  And UConn's special in their own way, and Syracuse is special in their own way.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, ladies.  Questions for Coach.
Q. Q, you said a player like Stewy doesn't come out of Syracuse, New York, very often.  When the next one does, do you think you've got a shot at her, and what does that do for women's basketball?
COACH HILLSMAN: We're going to get her.  Next one comes, we're getting her.
Q. What will it do for the game?
COACH HILLSMAN: What she's done so far.  Made the game great.  We're won't lose another one.  Don't worry about that.
Q. Story line coming in obviously was three of the Final Four teams were new.  It's parity here.  This is the year UConn is chased, trying to be beat.  Now that it's over, give us your assessment of where the field is as far as is there parity, or is UConn just as far ahead as they've ever been?
COACH HILLSMAN: It's tough to say because when you look at basketball and you look at our game, our game is definitely growing.  It's a fun game.  It's fast-moving.  It's a game that's very skillful.  I think the players are getting better.  I think the players need to continue.  When they get better, they have a larger pool of players to recruit to play at this level.
But thing about our game is obviously players come and play for four years.  If you get a Breanna Stewart or Brittney Sykes or Brianna Butler or Alexis Peterson, you get them for four years.  And the proof is in what we've done for four years.  We built a lot in four years because our players have stayed, and we've gotten a lot better.
So I think there is parity.  UConn is and was a very good basketball team.  And moving forward, you just don't know.  I know that I told my kids we were on upset alert as soon as the brackets were put up and they had 7 percent chance.
And one thing about me, I told my kids, my dad always told me I was great, and the more he told me, the more I believed it.  And I always didn't think it, but I just believed it.  I know I'm going to take some time and explain this story.  So when I talk to my kids and I tell them you can't look at what people say about you when it's negative.  You can't look at where people put you because if you believe that, that's what you're going to be.
I always told my kids we're a great basketball team and you're great players.  I don't lie to them.  They're a great basketball team and great players.  I told them we're never going to be the victim.  Don't ever be the victim.  Because victims lay down.
That's why we did what we did today.  And our kids are competitors, and I just wanted them to believe.  So every time we saw 7 percent, .003 percent, that was great, because it proved that if you believe that you're great, nobody can tell you that you're not.
And my dad made me believe that I was great and I was going to be successful.  I'm sitting here.  And they brought me here.  It's about my kids.  Has nothing to do with me.  But I believed it and I made them believe it.
Q. Early on do you think maybe the offense was a little too ambitious, taking a lot of shots from deep and maybe later on settling for some of those mid-range jumpers?
COACH HILLSMAN: No, it's the least amount of 3s we took all year.  So I don't think that's accurate at all.  We took what they gave us.  We attacked the rim.  We took 62 shots.  We took 19 3s.  So that's a lot of 2-point field goals.  So they closed on the 3-point line we attacked the rim.  I don't think that's accurate at all.  I thought we took what they gave us, and that was attack the rim and that's what we did.
Q. Talk about Cornelia Fondren's performance today?
COACH HILLSMAN: Just amazing, tough kid.  When you have kids that compete at a high level, you have a chance.  And that's what she did.  Corn just competed at a high level, and she did this last year.  It's amazing at the end of the year she starts playing really good at the right time.  And she was amazing, just a really competitive kid who deserves to be praised for her effort.
Q. Q, you had a great team this year.  No doubt.  How do you make sure that you guys are a great program and can get back here?
COACH HILLSMAN: I think you just have to continue to develop the players that you have and recruit great players.  And we work hard at it to get the kind of athletes in our program that can get us to this level.  And we're going to continue to work hard and develop what we have.
And I think that the players in our conference get us ready to play at this level every night.  We'll continue to work hard and develop players and get great players.
Q. Coach, the 16-0 run in the third, what went right defensively that translated to the offense?
COACH HILLSMAN: Our kids' effort, really.  They just really got a great jolt of energy, and we started to scramble a little bit and got to the things we normally get.  And it really changed the tempo of the game.  But when you get it to 17, you give up three straight layups, that's tough.  And you get one or two more stops, you get it down to 13, it changes the game.
But credit UConn.  They've got the floor space and did some things to attack us on the basket and got some easy shots.
Q. You mentioned that your goal was don't be the victim, don't lie down, believe in yourself.  But specifically what was your goal going into this game?  Don't lose by?  Or was your goal win?
COACH HILLSMAN: I think that when you come into a basketball game, when you go into any sports competition, I don't think nobody walks into -- if you do, you shouldn't go -- anywhere thinking you're going to lose a basketball game.
I actually thought we was going to be 38-0 this year and the national championship.  And at practice I sit here until it's all over and watch the confetti fall.  Watched both games.  I watched the confetti fall because I wanted to practice to see how the confetti falls in your hand.  I do it every year.
They will tell you in the ACC that when we lose I stay until the last game because I like to get the practice for the confetti.  It felt better in Sioux Falls than I thought that it felt in any other game.  When I was out there and the confetti falls (indiscernible) on the floor.
So I want you to understand we never are going to go anywhere to lose a game.  So we're going to compete.  And I practiced on the confetti falling in my hand.  And it did in Sioux Falls, and it felt great.
Q. Four years ago this class was ranked No. 6 recruiting class in the country.  Tonight aside, do you feel this run kind of validates that?
COACH HILLSMAN: Yeah, definitely.  They're great kids.  And they're very competitive.  And that's what we try to instill in our athletes, is to come out, be great people, just be the best person you can be and be the best athlete you can be.
And once that happens, you go home with dignity.  And our kids have done that.  All six of our seniors are in graduate school and are leaving with master's degrees.  Not only are they great students, they're great athletes and great students.
I don't know that there's many teams in the country can say that all their seniors are in grad school.  From top to bottom, from our academic support staff to our coaching staff, I think we're doing it the right way at Syracuse.
Q. Second half seemed like you guys got into a 1-2-1 offense and the ball was flowing.  What did you say to your kids second half?  Because it seemed like you guys settled in the second half and started playing as your game plan scripted out.
COACH HILLSMAN: Yeah, that's exactly what it is.  When you think it's a long athletic team, you have to move the ball side to side, attack and move the defense.  The first half I thought that we played a little bit too much one-on-one.  Second half I thought we got the ball moving side to side and moving the defense and got to the rim and played in space and was able to now attack the rim without having them low in the (indiscernible).  And that's a great assessment of what happened.  We started sharing the ball, moving the ball, and it paid dividends for us.
Q. Even though you didn't get the result you wanted, you lose a senior in Butler, what does the future hold for Syracuse women's basketball going into next season?
COACH HILLSMAN: I think the future is really bright.  Obviously we have another Top 25 class, some great players coming in.  And I think what this year has done for our program, it's made all of us better.  I think that -- and this is just being honest, I think that the media challenged our city and challenged our fans, and our fans showed up big in the tournament.  So that was good.
I think that they gave them a little jolt, as we had an unbelievable crowd in our games at home for the tournament, and I thought Kim did a great job of promoting this, turning this into a great crowd.
Same thing here.  I thought every round we went to, I thought our fans -- sounds crazy, but I thought they competed.  They came out.  I think they took it personal.  Then from that, when we get the same kind of deal where we're (indiscernible) the win, we took it personal.
I think from our fans to the recruits to the players that are still here, I think our program is still in great shape and I think we're going to see much better things from us.
Q. What was it about UConn maybe being able to break the press?  Was it just that they were so athletic, or maybe what was it so specifically?
COACH HILLSMAN: We didn't score.  So you don't make shots, you can't get your pressure set.  We were pressing more.  And unsettled situations.  And when we start scoring the basketball, I think that that's when the 16-0 run started.  We scored the ball, the ball went through the nets, we couldn't get our press set.
That's the key to our pressure is getting the ball in the basket.  We have a press package off missed shots, but it's so unsettled that you think it's a long athletic team that they can pass the ball up the floor.  It's a great passing team.  You're going to struggle some and get in some traps.  I thought the key was on 16-0 we made some shots that got our pressure set.  And if we made a few more shots at the end of the game, might have been a little different.
But they're a great team, and Geno has done an amazing job.  And congratulations to his team, and amazing feat.  And we'll keep doing what we do and make our program better.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT