NCAA WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: FINAL FOUR
April 3, 2016
Quentin Hillsman
Brittney Sykes
Alexis Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Syracuse - 80, University of Washington - 59   
THE MODERATOR: Joining us now from Syracuse head coach Quentin Hillsman, student-athletes Alexis Peterson and Brittney Sykes.  Coach, an opening statement.   
COACH HILLSMAN: We're obviously very happy with the win.  Our kids -- they were just amazing tonight.  And it was a game about toughness, but Washington, what an amazing team.  And Coach Neighbors is just a good guy.  You just want them to win so bad.  And he played a very good game and has a tough team.  Give him a lot of credit.  Kelsey Plum is an amazing player.  Challenged us two times this year.  And she's just an amazing kid and just a real hardworking kid, hardworking team.   
But our players did what we asked them to do.  They competed at a high level.  They pushed the pace, pushed the tempo.  And that's the difference in the game.  We just wanted to get up and down and play fast.  And I thought that we spread them up some in certain instances where we really needed to get the game going, and we got it going pretty good.  But just happy with the win and happy to be moving on to the championship game.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.   
 Q.  Brittney, can you talk about there were a couple of points in the game where they made a run at you and they were closing in on you, and you were hitting big shots.  You were making a big run when they closed it to 11, then two 3s at the end.  Where were you mentally of answering back and not letting them get too close?  
BRITTNEY SYKES: That's what you're supposed to do.  A great team like Washington, you know they're expected to make a great run as they did.  And credit to Talia Walton for making eight 3s, and she really stretched us out.  And we had trouble trying to find her, but when they go on their run, we have to answer back and turn them over and go back to what we were doing to win the game.  We did that.  We turned them over, we hit those 3s and got back in the game.   
 Q.  Coach Neighbors echoed what Coach Q just said about toughness, he said 37 hustle points, meaning off turnovers and second-chance points.  That's been a characteristic of your team all year long.  Whenever they got close, you found a way to tough out a lead.  Just your thoughts about how that continued tonight?  
ALEXIS PETERSON: Well, you know, Washington's a great team and they never gave up, and you have to give them a lot of credit for playing with limited amount of bodies and just never giving up, just constantly trying to make a run.  So we have to give them a lot of credit.   
And it's tough this time of year.  A lot of teams are facing injuries.  And they came out and they played hard and they never gave in.   
 Q.  Brittney, Coach Q has been talking about a national championship for years.  But before you got to this program, they had never won a NCAA Tournament game.  What's it like now that you're making it to that national championship game?  
BRITTNEY SYKES: Every year in Media Day he says the same thing, and we believe the same thing; that we're going to win the national championship and we're going to compete for the national championship.  And we're doing that right now.  Whether it took us two years, three years, four years, we're here.  So we're here in this moment and we're living in this moment.  And Tuesday we'll be competing for what he's been saying all his years here.   
 Q.  Brittney, you guys started off a little slow.  You hit two of your first 10 shots as a team and then you close out the first quarter 8 for 10 and it was almost a carbon copy of the first meeting, only they didn't make quite as big a comeback.  What was different about tonight compared to the November game in Las Vegas?  
BRITTNEY SYKES: Well, in November, you know, you can play that game and, win or lose, you have 15 other games after that.  You're playing them in the Final Four, you win, you stay; or you lose and you go home.  And we didn't want to go home.  So we had to play them to understand the value of that game, and that was to compete for the national championship.   
 Q.  Alexis, how much emotional energy do you get knowing how uncomfortable you make a team or you turn them over, you see frustration they can't get in their offense?  How much do you get from that?  
ALEXIS PETERSON: We get a lot of energy from that and we pride ourselves on defense.  When we can get and get after teams and turn them over, keep them from running their offense, it gives us more momentum to get out run and get in transition.   
 Q.  Have either of you crossed paths with Breanna Stewart?  She's from suburban Syracuse.  Ever played against her on AAU circuit or anything like that?  
ALEXIS PETERSON: I played with her a few times.   
BRITTNEY SYKES: I've played with her.  We've crossed paths and we've played in the same gym.   
 Q.  Much has been made of the relationship between Kelsey Plum and Mike Neighbors.  But at one point tonight, Alexis, before Coach could get to the timeout, you were taking him to the side and emphatically saying something.  Could you maybe explain what you were talking about at that point and talk about the relationship between you and Coach Q?  
ALEXIS PETERSON: Well, I'm just an extension of him on the court.  And so in that I was just coming out and just telling him what I saw from our perspective and how they were looking to play our ball screens and what I saw they were trying to do on the defensive end.  And we were just kind of comparing what we both saw and figuring out a way that we could come out and get a basket.   
 Q.  Alexis, this is twice that you (indiscernible) games against Kelsey.  Tonight, from what I could see, every time she was bringing the ball up, it was either you or Brianna or both of you jumping up forcing -- you didn't shut her down, but how do you think you did so well against her tonight?  
ALEXIS PETERSON: First of all, a lot of credit to Kelsey Plum and the season she's had.  It's not easy facing this type of pressure for 40 minutes.  And you being the only ball handler, you're playing with limited bodies, but I thought we just really wanted to jump out and make it tough for her.  We didn't want her to get out on the open floor and beat us up in transition and get open looks.  So we just tried to keep a high hand every time she caught the ball, and we ultimately made it hard for her.  But she did what all great players do; she found a way to score.   
 Q.  I'm curious for each of you if there's a moment that you sort of spot that the press is working, where you can see it having that impact?  And just related to that, for both your spots on the court, but also if that is coming earlier in games as you guys are progressing in your season?  
ALEXIS PETERSON: I think kind of towards the beginning of the second half, you know, Coach talked about coming out playing with a lot of energy.  They made a great run to end the half.  So it was a couple of points where I felt like we had a couple of back-to-back steals.  We made some easy baskets.  We got out in transition.  Isabella Slim ran through and got a steal, and it was kind of like a turning point for us.  Our momentum had picked up.   
BRITTNEY SYKES: Just like Lex said, when you get those type of steals and come out in the second half and you become hungrier and start to turn them over and start to get the ball and you want them more and you understand what's at stake is you can go home, and that puts fear in you.  And you want to go out and you want to give your all for 40 minutes because you don't want those to be the last 40 minutes for those who could be seniors or for those who could be juniors, you want to live in this moment and you want to worry about the now.   
 Q.  As time was about to expire and you were dribbling the time out but before the clock went off, several of the Washington players came over and actually embraced you and said something to you.  And there was a point earlier in the game where one of y'all tripped over I think Talia's foot and she helped you back up.  Could you comment on the sportsmanship shown by the Washington players and also what they were saying to you there at the end?  
ALEXIS PETERSON: Well, you know, we have a lot of respect for each other.  We know that they're a great team.  And they just came over and said congratulations, we had a great season and to continue this run.  We said the same thing back.   
It's a lot of respect between us.  They're a great team.  They're great players.  And what they've done this season has been tremendous for their program and also for women's basketball.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, ladies.  Questions for Coach.   
 Q.  Just to continue on your theme in the opening remarks, actually from the other day when I asked you about good records against good teams, the toughness aspect.  When it's on the line or when they're pushing back, you usually find a way to respond.  Just some more thoughts about where that comes from, perhaps right from the top.  
COACH HILLSMAN: Well, it's all about knowing what we're trying to do.  We want to go out and win these basketball games.  And there's a certain way that we have to play to win.  And there's a time in the game I actually said it's going to be tough to win the game or we're not and we're going home, because you can't let a player just keep knocking down 3s and we don't respond.  Someone has to get the ball out of Kelsey Plum's hands because she's trying to dominate the game.   
It comes down to toughness, and I used my voice, obviously, to be tough, but they use their bodies.  They're just great kids and they play so hard and give them so much credit and they just get after it.   
 Q.  You obviously disrupted them defensively, but you took them out of their zone pretty quickly by hitting shots.  How important was it to take them out of what they wanted to do defensively as well?  
COACH HILLSMAN: It's very important.  You know, when we're coming down the court and they're showing us even front, there were times when I didn't know if they were in man or zone.  But once we got locked in and figured out what they were in, we were able to attack it more effectively and we got some really clean looks.   
 Q.  First of all, I really want to know how many pairs of glasses you own.  
COACH HILLSMAN: I honestly don't know.  Quite a few pair.   
 Q.  A lot of coaches buy into the philosophy that you gotta do what got you here when you get to the Final Four, when you get deep in the postseason.  So are you going to press UConn?  
COACH HILLSMAN: We have to.  I don't know if we can play any other way right now.  That's what we do.  And we've had some success doing that.  We understand that they're a very balanced team.  Multiple ball handlers, they have quickness.  And their post players can handle the ball.   
But we've got to try to do what we've done to get to this point.  I don't think we can get to the last game in the season and change what we do.   
 Q.  The kids are saying that every year at the Media Day you say:  We're going to go to the national championship.  What made this year actually make that happen?  
COACH HILLSMAN: I think we had a lot of balance.  I think our team was very deep.  And it's always about getting to the end of the year with your full roster.  And we're healthy.  I mean, everyone's banged up this time of year, but we're reasonably healthy.  If you get to this point and have your full roster, I think it has a lot to do with -- it allows us to press and play faster and the things we do to be successful.   
 Q.  When you turn around to the crowd and you're yelling "One more game" toward the end of the game, is that kind of like an "I told you so" moment, like:  I've been saying this for years and it's finally happening, we're making it to the national championship game?  
COACH HILLSMAN: No, it's just one more game.  Our fans are here.  And we had a great turnout at our home games.  We have a great turnout here, and I didn't want them to go home.  I want them to be able to stay here and watch us play.  We have one more game, and it's the thing that we've all worked for.  Our administration worked really hard for it.  We've worked really hard for it.  Our players have really given everything they have, and I think it's just about our program, about our department, we're here, we've got one more game and we're very excited about it.   
 Q.  You said a lot of things.  You practice hard.  You simulate a lot of different things, pressure ball.  How do you simulate UConn's physicality, agility and mobility to get you guys ready for Tuesday?  
COACH HILLSMAN: Well, you definitely don't do that in one day, I'm sure.  You know, we've just got to come out and play.  They're a great basketball team.  And the only thing that I have going for me is that I was in the Big East.  And we know how they play.  So their speed and quickness is not going to be a shock to us.   
I think the teams that haven't played them before, when they come out and they make their first run, you go, man, I'm not going to do that because we've seen that.  And that conference makes you tough.  You know, when you're coaching against Hall of Famers -- Geno is the best in the business.  We're not going to sit here and say he's not.  But he's the best in the business.  You play against Notre Dames and Louisvilles, and you can go down, Coach Stringer.  That was a tough conference.  And I grew up in the conference.   
My first game, my first year coaching against Hall of Famers, it makes you get better, makes you become a better coach and makes you get tougher and it makes you grow up really fast.  So this is a game where we all gotta get ready to play on Tuesday.  We gotta grow up really fast and go out and play as hard as we can and try to win a basketball game.   
 Q.  I would imagine you've got to recruit players who want to play the way that you guys play and that you want to play.  Do you have to -- how much convincing do you have to do with some of these kids, because this has got to be really hard work for them?  
COACH HILLSMAN: It's kind of twofold.  You try to get athletes to play the way you want to play.  But, two, once they get here and they see the pace and the tempo, it makes them work.  Or you're going to have to quit.  You'll have to make a decision.  Because it's a pace that makes you work.   
I think that's the good thing about our kids.  Our kids are really embracing this and they have really worked to have the kind of conditioning and the level of individual play, to play the tempo and the speed.   
It hasn't always been this way.  But we knew we had to play this way in order to win.  And we're still sitting here.  So obviously it's working.   
 Q.  The thought to beat UConn, everyone for you has to play well, everyone has to play well.  I think every player tonight scored.  How big is that for you going into that game just confidence for subs and kids that aren't leading scorers typically?  
COACH HILLSMAN: I think it's great.  You gotta have balance to play against great teams.  And we have some balance.  We have to have some bodies get in the game that can contribute and help you.  We have that, too.  So all we can do is go out and play our game and then put a game plan in place that we feel like would be successful.   
So we're looking forward to the challenge.  They're a good team and they've won a ton of games.  And I know Coach is going for his 11th national championship.  And we've got to go out and play and do all we can to win the basketball game.   
 Q.  It wasn't just the scoring where you had the balance.  Everybody had to rebound.  Six of your players had an assist.  Brianna actually tied her career high in 15 she set against Boston College this year.  How important is it not only to have depth in scoring but depth in other elements of the game, particularly rebounds and assists and that?  
COACH HILLSMAN: It was important.  We had it -- one of our keys of victory is we don't need any heroes and be a star in your role.  Everybody contribute.  Whatever it is, you have to contribute just winning this basketball game.  And I think that was it.   
And, guys, I mean this sincerely, I don't take any credit for this because these kids are competitors and they play so hard.  And the second your kids are satisfied playing for you, it's over.   
And they continue to play hard.  They continue to let me coach them.  They continue to let me push them.  They just respond.  And I'm so happy for them because every year I start off by telling them that we've got a chance to win a national championship and that's my expectations.  I tell them how much faith I have in them and confidence I have in them.  I thank them every week, every day as much as I can for taking care of me and continuing to let me coach another game.   
It's all about our kids.  We have great kids.  They're so competitive, and I'm just really happy for them and I'm really grateful and humbled by the way they let me push them and the way they compete.   
 Q.  Some teams this time of the year they get here, they catch lightning in a bottle and maybe they get a little lucky in terms of opponents.  You got here, maybe going back to the conference tournament, you beat teams that got you to the title game, got you a better seed.  Then you beat some big-timers to get to this moment.  Does that feel even a little more rewarding for all the work you had to do on the way?  
COACH HILLSMAN: I tell you, when you play in the ACC, it's the best conference in the country from top to bottom.  There's so much balance in that conference.  And the teams at the top of the conference have a chance to be in the Final Four and win national championships.  So our conference gets you ready for these tough moments.  You have these games that are back-to-back games.  We had Notre Dame and Louisville back-to-back and got hammered in both of those games, but it made us tougher.  And we grew up.   
I think if we didn't have that experience we wouldn't be sitting here.  And I'm so grateful to be in a great conference with great leadership that allows us to compete at a very high level and to put a schedule in place that gets us ready for these moments, and we have a great conference.  So from top to bottom, night in, night out, we play a great schedule.  So that's why we're sitting here today.   
 Q.  Brianna Butler set a NCAA record for made 3s today.  Before the season you said she'd make at least 100.  Did you have that kind of number in mind?  
COACH HILLSMAN: How many did she make this year?   
 Q.  128.  
COACH HILLSMAN: See, told you.  (Laughter).   
 Q.  You brought up playing in the ACC.  Notre Dame seems to be the one team that's kind of figured UConn out over the last few years.  What can you learn from playing them and will you talk to Muffet before Tuesday and pick her brain?  
COACH HILLSMAN: I hope so, right.  I don't know if you figure UConn out, I really don't.  I think that you've got to go and play your game and just play to the best of your abilities and have confidence in what you do.   
We have confidence in what we do.  We're going to do what we've done.  We won 30 games this year.  So we're not going to go to the game and now sit back and not press and not play fast.  And we understand that if they come out and they make a lot of shots, it could be a rough night for us.  If we make a lot of shots and they have an off night, it could be a great night for us.   
We're going to go and prepare.  And, like I said, the Big East made me grow up a little bit and made me be a better coach and learn how to really manage my team.  I think the ACC has kind of put the topping on it.  Like I said, I'm just happy to be here to represent our conference.  I'm happy to have one of our teams, whoever it is, just have one of your teams have a chance to win a championship.  And we have a chance on Tuesday night to play against the best team in the country, to play against a dynasty and play against a team that really forgot how to lose.  That's an amazing thing, to forget how to lose.   
I want to do that.  I want to be bad for basketball one day.  I want to be really bad for basketball.  I want you all to say he's really bad for basketball.  Because I tell you right now, if winning every game is bad for basketball, then let me be that, please.   
 Q.  Just sort of jumping off of that, have you given any thought to the opportunity to make history and not just the potential to win the national championship and fulfill that pledge, but not just that Villanova won in 1985 on the men's side, they beat Georgetown and did it that way, have you given any thought to that aspect of what Tuesday night could be?  
COACH HILLSMAN: As of right now, no, I really haven't.  We just gotta get home get our kids recovered to come out and play against the best team.  That's our goal, just go home, recover and get ready to go play UConn.  It's going to be a great night for us.  It's going to be a great night for our conference.  It's going to be a great night for our kids, and we're looking forward to competing against the best, and here it is.  So we're here.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT