NHL DRAFT 2017
June 23, 2017
Lias Andersson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Was this a surprise to you at all?  Did the Rangers talk to you at the combine?
LIAS ANDERSSON: Yeah, I met with them at the combine, but it surprised me a little bit.  There was a lot of good players left in the draft, so it was a lot of fun.
Q. Can you give us a scouting report on yourself?
LIAS ANDERSSON: I think I'm a two-way center.  Love to change games and score big goals.  I want to be a leader, so, yeah, I'll say I'm a leader.
Q. What was your reaction?
LIAS ANDERSSON: My agent was like a little bit screaming, so it was like, yeah, going to New York, so it was a little bit fun, but it just was a special feeling.  I cannot describe it.  It was amazing.
Q. What do you know about the organization?
LIAS ANDERSSON: I mean, I never been to New York before, so it's going to be fun to go there.  Actually my mom and dad met the first time in New York, so they can show me around a little bit.
Q. Your dad played in the NHL, right?
LIAS ANDERSSON: Yeah, my dad actually lived in New York, played for the Islanders, so hopefully can take his old apartment.
Q. Is there anyone you pattern your game after?
LIAS ANDERSSON: I mean, I love watching those good centermens, Toews.  I love watching Claude Giroux for the Flyers.  I think they can play a little bit tough and score big goals.  And, yeah, I think they're game changers.  And Toews are a big winner, he's won everything, and I want to win everything, too.
Q. What would you say is your best asset on the ice?
LIAS ANDERSSON: I don't know, I think I want to be like a full-package player.  I want to have the full package.  So I'll say my work ethic and just being around those like hot situations and like scoring important goals.
Q. (Indiscernible).
LIAS ANDERSSON: Oh, yeah, feels amazing.  I actually know him a little bit.  My dad played with him for some years, and so will be good to see him again.
Q. Where did you get your aggressive style from?  How did that come about?
LIAS ANDERSSON: I don't know.  Just I watched a lot of hockey, and I think if you want to be successful, you have to play hard and tough, in my opinion, so just watched a lot of hockey.
Q. How familiar are you with the Rangers, and what do you think of the team so far?
LIAS ANDERSSON: I mean, it's a very good team.  They've been close now for many years, and I think, yeah, they've got some -- a couple of good Swedes down in the minors, so I think we'll change that ship.
Q. Do you have any relationships with Kovacs?
LIAS ANDERSSON: No, I don't know them actually.  Stromwall played in NA 371 (phonetic) when I played in the juniors, but I don't know him as a person.
Q. (Indiscernible).
LIAS ANDERSSON: Yeah, of course.  I speak a little bit to Henrik and those guys in the minors, too, so I mean, it's obviously good to have a couple of Swedes there.
Q. What does it mean to know that (indiscernible)?
LIAS ANDERSSON: I mean, feels just amazing.  He's one of the biggest stars that Sweden hockey ever had, so it just feels amazing.
Q. Where will you play next year?
LIAS ANDERSSON: I don't know yet.  I have a contract back home with Frolunda, so we'll see what's happening, see what Rangers want.  Obviously my goal is to play in the NHL.  I know it's tough, and if I don't make it, maybe play in the American league or play back home in Sweden.  I don't know yet.  We'll figure something good out.
Q. Are you the first or second division back home?
LIAS ANDERSSON: First division.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT