NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2014
Elfrid Payton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   If you would just start with opening statements, feelings about being drafted by the 76ers. 
ELFRID PAYTON:   I'm excited.   I'm blessed for this opportunity, and I hear Philly is a great city. 

Q.   All right, Jason.   You told me Allen Iverson is your favorite player.   How does it feel to go to his team? 
ELFRID PAYTON:   It feels great.   He was my favorite player of all time.   So it's amazing.

Q.   Elfrid, you're a point guard.   Michael Carter‑Williams is a point guard.   How do you see you guys fitting together? 
ELFRID PAYTON:   I think the game is kind of changing into putting the best players on the floor, and I feel like I can play multiple positions.   So I'm looking forward to it.

Q.   Elfrid, congratulations.   Talk about your emphasis on defense and your overall skill set in being able to rebound and pass.   Talk about how that can help you get a lot of minutes early and be able to gain a lot of experience at the pro level. 
ELFRID PAYTON:   I think my defense is going to get me on the court.   All coaches sure love defense because that's what wins championships. 
Once I get on the floor, I can show them maybe my passing, and like you said, things like that, and my rebounding ability.   And that it will be a great experience. 

Q.   You kind of just talked about it, but can you just talk about what you can bring to the Philadelphia 76ers and also how much you watched them last year.   Obviously, they had a historically bad season. 
ELFRID PAYTON:   I think I could just bring my defense and my leadership abilities.   I know a lot of guys are probably not going to listen to me, being a rookie, so just try to lead by example, things like that. 
I didn't watch much of the games last year, but I'll be excited to be there, man.

Q.   Are you looking forward to being able to go through this experience with another rookie in Joel Embiid?   And are you looking forward to being able to play with him on the court? 
ELFRID PAYTON:   Yes, I am looking forward to playing with him.   He's a great big man with a tremendous talent.   Point guards love big men.   So I think it's going to be great. 

Q.   There's reports you're going to be traded to the Orlando Magic.   How does it feel to go to Orlando? 
ELFRID PAYTON:   I mean, I don't know.   I guess that would be nice, too.   Anything is a blessing, man. 

Q.   It does kind of bring an interesting point with the different cities.   You're from a small town.   Was there part of you that says, are you more comfortable with a bigger market versus a smaller market? 
ELFRID PAYTON:   No, it wouldn't matter.   It wouldn't matter.

Q.   Philadelphia is a great town, history, I know something about the place.   Very sports obsessed, though, maniacally sports obsessed.   They take it pretty seriously.   Just was curious what your thoughts are on the town. 
ELFRID PAYTON:   It wouldn't matter.   It wouldn't matter. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT