US OPEN
August 26, 1997
Guillaume Raoux
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







ANDRE CHRISTOPHER questions in English first quickly, then we'll go to French.

Q. Well done, professor Raoux?

GUILLAUME RAOUX: Why professor?

Q. Because you look like a professor.

GUILLAUME RAOUX: Okay.

Q. Can you talk about your match a little bit?

GUILLAUME RAOUX: I had very good preparation for the match. We talk a lot with my coach
about the match. He helped a lot on the court because we knew that Carlos had a shoulder
problem, so we watch his final last week against Rafter, so had a good approach of the
match. That's what helps me. I knew I had the game to play good on this kind of player
because I go to the net very often. My baseline game is powerful, compared like Rafter, a
lot of chips, shots like this. I play more hard, I hit more harder the ball. That's one of
the reasons I was optimistic for the match.

Q. Actually, ever since Rosmalen, you've been playing very, very well.

GUILLAUME RAOUX: I think I change.

Q. In what way?

GUILLAUME RAOUX: Davis Cup make me more confident in my game. I knew after Davis Cup, I
saw that I could play big match, I was ready to play those matches. Like I played the most
important match I had to play was the final in the doubles in Malmo against Sweden. I
played a very good match. I was solid. There was a lot of pressure, everybody was looking
after me. Everybody expect I play a big game, and I did. For my confidence, I improve in
just one match, maybe two matches, semifinal and final, I improve more than in all my
career than this one.

Q. Doesn't it seem odd sometimes that you could go so many years in your career and
find your confidence as a relatively later age?

GUILLAUME RAOUX: I have no regrets because I had to live something special like Davis
Cup to improve. Is better that it happen last year than never, so I have no regrets
because I was not ready to play big matches maybe two or three years before.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT