GREAT AMERICAN INSURANCE ATP CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 1996
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How was it?

STEFAN EDBERG: It was quite hot out there, but like even afterwards it was a short
match, I got away with it pretty easy. I thought it was worse this morning when I was
warming up about 10, 11 o'clock, and it was a little overcast, which helps, but it is hot.
You can feel it when you come back in the air conditioning after the match. But it is the
same for everybody. You just have to prepare for it the best that you can. Drink a lot of
fluid and make sure you eat well.

Q. You prefer playing in the twilight?

STEFAN EDBERG: Both yes and know. I think the lights here are really good, though. I
think under these circumstances it is a benefit playing at night, you know, you feel a bit
cooler. The heat can get you as long as you are fit and you are healthy and you go out
there with a good attitude, you are going to be all right. 

Q. Did you have to do anything differently today knowing what the heat was going to be
like?

STEFAN EDBERG: You just have to pace yourself a little bit and, you know, hopefully
serve well because, that, I did today, I served pretty well. I got a lot of easy points
and you just have to -- if you feel that you don't have a chance to win the point, don't
have to chase every point out there. You have to let a few go at times. But that is the
way I feel that you have to do because you feel when you have a long rally, you can find
yourself sort of chipping for error.

Q. You are at the end of your playing career, what would be the one thing you would
like to do to finish off, to get back into the top 20 and --

STEFAN EDBERG: Definitely get back into the top 20. I think there is room for that.
Hopefully go farther than that, but I really -- I need to win a tournament; that is really
what I am looking for right now. And I think it is possible because the consistency is
there right now and I just need to put everything together for one week and so that is
really what I am looking for.

Q. I know it was really hot today and you appreciated the short length of the match. Do
you find that motivates you more or do you think a tougher match --

STEFAN EDBERG: I don't know. You never know what to expect out there. Sometimes you got
it a lot easier than you think and sometimes you have got to work harder for it. The
quicker you can get out there the better it is because you have got to come back tomorrow,
but at the same time, you need to be out there in these conditions because it is a long
summer. You need to sort of get used to the heat. Normally if you can get through first
day, you feel better when you come back the second day. So it is just a matter of being
there and wanting to be out there, so you don't go out with the attitude like, oh, God, it
is hot today; I am not sure whether I can do that because then it is tougher.

Q. You seemed to move slower at the beginning of the match just in between points. As
the match went on you got more -- a little speed. Is there a plan to that or it is just
how you feel?

STEFAN EDBERG: I think when you first come out, the heat hits you, so you have to pace
yourself. That is taking the time because you do need a little bit more time in between
points when it is hot like that. I tend to take a little bit more time in between serves
and he took sometime too because otherwise it is tough.

Q. As an Olympic medalist can you understand when Andre says that he was (Inaudible.)

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I think as a tennis player, I mean, if you had a choice, I think I
would rather win a Wimbledon title than winning the Olympics. I think winning the Olympics
is a great achievement, no question about it. You are playing for your country and it is a
little bit like winning Davis Cup, I feel. I think it is a tremendous thing if you can do
that. Hopefully Olympics will grow in the future to a status where everybody is playing in
it and it is a huge thing, but I think this could be a good turnaround for the Olympics by
having a top player to win it and having a top player to say "this is the best thing
that has ever happened to me." That is really what we need in order to have the
importance of tennis in the Olympics.

Q. You said that you wanted to win a tournament this year. Is it too much to hope for
the U.S. Open to go out or, I mean-- or would you be just be happy with any tournament
that is left on your schedule?

STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, I mean, you have to be realistic. I think that is -- it is harder
to put everything together for two weeks, there is no question about it. Obviously I still
have the hope of winning at the Open and it is nothing that is impossible, but, you know,
I think it is a bigger chance that it will happen somewhere else.

Q. What was the feeling like being able to capture the doubles in Australia?

STEFAN EDBERG: It was great playing doubles because it is such a different feeling
playing doubles, playing in a team, and it is really the first time in my life that I was
around just playing doubles the second week, that has never happened before, so it was
sort of a nice -- played one day; you had a day off. You played another day and -- almost
for me it was like semi-vacation at the same time as you -- there is a lot less pressure
playing doubles too, I feel.

Q. I think a lot of fans and media - I don't know if that feeling is around the world-
to be able to capture a Grand Slam title even if it was doubles --

STEFAN EDBERG: Sure, it is nice. It is great when you think about it because those
titles are not easy to achieve, and even if it is just the doubles or whatever you say, it
is -- it was nice, you know, actually winning a title on that court because I lost a lot
of finals there and I actually haven't won in singles there.

Q. The Open aside, is there any other tournament on your schedule that would be mean
more on others?

STEFAN EDBERG: Obviously, the Stockholm Open. Definitely.

Q. You think the crowd will support--

STEFAN EDBERG: I had a lot of support playing in Bastad this year and I think
especially in that -- playing at the old hall, it would be a great atmosphere and I think
that could be a big help.

Q. What was it like to be out-footfaulted today?

STEFAN EDBERG: First time in 15 years, first time in 15 years, that somebody has
actually out-footfaulted me.

Q. What was the final tally?

STEFAN EDBERG: 8 to 2.

Q. Were you keeping it?

STEFAN EDBERG: I quite enjoyed that because it has never happened before. I said, geez,
imagine all these free points and they did it on the second serve once or twice too, so
huge surprise.

Q. (Inaudible.)

STEFAN EDBERG: I am never worried about my footfaults. The only worry, I just have to
make sure I stand back enough, so it is really a concentration thing; plus I think with
the toss, if I was playing -- if I wasn't a serve and volleyer, I probably would never
footfault, but since you are playing serve and volley, my philosophy is always getting in
the quickest, the fastest I can, therefore, you toss the ball more than you normally
would; that creates the footfault. I think it is because -- it is the way I serve too.

Q. Can you remember any matches that really turned because of the footfaults?

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I can remember one match clearly where it was in 1983 when I
played Krickstein at the Open first round I got footfaulted like 19, 20 times in that
match and that really hurt me. I lost it 7-6 in the fifth set.

Q. But any important points that you feel like -- 

STEFAN EDBERG: No. I am sure it has happened, but I don't take too much notice, but,
you know, it seldom happens at very important stages.

Q. You were looking forward to Wimbledon, talking about that, obviously it is kind of a
disappointment?

STEFAN EDBERG: It was.

Q. How have you rationalized that in your head or dealt with that how it ended?

STEFAN EDBERG: I took it pretty well. I just said to myself that I had a lot of great
years at Wimbledon and they were not all going to be great. I did what I could and I did
not perform well. So it is not the end of the world. You can do what you can and that is
the end of the story. You can't bring back --

Q. Did you want to (Inaudible.)

STEFAN EDBERG: It never came to that stage because I mean, it was a crucial, crucial
point to that match. That was in the third set, 4-2 in the tiebreaker, missed an easy
shot. He won the third set. I knew I would be able to play one more set. If I would won
that third set, it would have been a huge difference. It was still light enough to finish
that match. So there was no way out of that one.

Q. Stefan, you are a member of the All England Club.

STEFAN EDBERG: Yes, I am, yes.

Q. Next year, there is always the chance that they could invite you to sit in the Royal
box. What do you think that is going to be like or what generally is it going to be like
when you go back there not as a player?

STEFAN EDBERG: Good question. I am not sure whether I will go back next year. Maybe I
will take a year off, but if I get invited, I will deal with that. I don't know what the
outcome will be, but I am sure it will be nice being back there because you do get two
tickets every year as a member and -- it sort of would be nice there to catch up with some
old friends and see some tennis. We will see about the Royal box, I am not sure about that
one. Do you want to come with me in case I get two tickets?

Q. Sure, why not. Quite possibly next year you won't go back, is that because it might
be a bit --

STEFAN EDBERG: I think it would be strange. I think you need to -- a little too soon, I
think so. That is what I think right now. I think you can leave it a year or so, but you
never know, I may surprise myself. Depending on what I am doing next year and, you know,
what I have that part of the year.

Q. Have you been approached by anybody to do any television commentary for Swedish or
--

STEFAN EDBERG: I have been asked, yes. I give the same answer. I don't think I have any
talent for it. That is what I think. I am not sure that that I will fit into -- you are
supposed to talk, aren't you? And I am not the best talker around. I will run out of steam
after a set.

Q. Have you decided whether you are going to stay in London?

STEFAN EDBERG: I will stay in London.

Q. Do people tell you that everywhere you go that it is going to be hard to have --
when tennis players that have been popular come and go that you will be missed,?

STEFAN EDBERG: People -- a lot of people do say that they are going to miss me on the
Tour and I just say thank you. I mean, I think I will miss the Tour as well; that, I am
certain about and I am going into a very, very different year next year. I am not quite
sure what to expect myself for next year. Maybe a fantastic year or maybe -- maybe a very
different year where you sort of maybe looking for things to do. I am not sure yet, but at
least you can approach it with a positive frame of mind. But I think it is better that you
sort of prepare yourselves for an end which I have done. It would be a major change -- I
think we are both looking forward to it. It will be a major change because tennis for the
last 15 years has been -- everything has been around the tennis, around the schedule,
around all the practice sessions that you have to do, so it will be very, very different.
Where, this year, you know exactly what you are doing pretty much everyday. You know what
you have to do in order to play and commit yourself to be out there and be in shape. Next
year, don't have those commitments and it will be totally different. It won't be easy, I
am sure about that.

Q. Will she see the tapes of you playing tennis, your child?

STEFAN EDBERG: Possibly. Possibly. I may see them myself. Who knows, as you get older
you put these videotapes in the drawers; you never watch it. But I might do that. Get
bored with everything -- that is something to do.

Q. You don't normally watch after the matches?

STEFAN EDBERG: No, never.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT