THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 26, 1996
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 

Q.  You said, or you've been reported to say that no matter how well you did this particular tournament that you would still stick to your plans to retire. 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  It hasn't changed overnight.  
 

Q.  Hasn't changed in the slightest.  Do you feel that the fun of the game has gone out or do you just have other plans in your life at this point? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  I'm set to do other things in life, so it's pretty much set.  I won't change my mind.  
 

Q.  What are the plans, Stefan?  What will you do? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  I will do a few things here and there, nothing that I can sort of announce today.  I'm going to do a few different things to start off with.  
 

Q.  Keeping your hand in tennis? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, a little bit.  I hope to.  I think it would be nice to.  
 

Q.  Did you know you'd never lost to this player before, Stefan? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yes, I knew that before, and I shouldn't have lost today either.  I have to say that.  I don't know.  I mean, I played pretty well actually for a set and a half.  I let it slip out of my hands.  He started playing a lot better.  I just lost the momentum.  It was definitely a match that I shouldn't have lost.  I feel pretty disappointed.  I was hitting the ball well, I was moving well.  Then I played a lousy game at 2-1, lost my serve, lost my rhythm of my serve, didn't really serve very well at all the rest of the match.  I had 15-40 at 3-2 in the second.  I had so many chances.  I never got a hold of him.  It's quite disappointing.  But he did play very well at the end.  I have to say that.  I think I let him play well, too.  
 

Q.  Is this precisely the reason why you are retiring? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  This is one of the reasons.  This is a typical match that should have been won.  Should have been dead and buried.  I didn't.  These matches that you don't -- it's tough.  I was hitting the ball well.  I had a great chance of getting into the quarterfinal here.  
 

Q.  How long has it been like that, Stefan?  How long have you been losing matches that you know you shouldn't have been? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  I think it started last years. Since last year there's been quite a few, I would say.  
 

Q.  So really a matter of closing out the match, isn't it? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  You have to take the chances and you really have to stamp your authority, concentrate.  I'm playing a few sloppy points.  I served a couple double-faults to give him the break in the second set.  You can't do that.  The guys are good out there today, so -- you can get away by giving away a point here and there, but not in that way.  
 

Q.  Is it concentration? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah.  It's a little bit of concentration.  It's hard to say exactly what it is.  It's usually concentration.  That's what it was.  Up after 2-Love, I won seven, eight straight points.  There was no reason to play a bad service game, for pressure or anything.  He made a few returns, I made a few mistakes, hit the two double-faults, then he felt he had a chance again.  
 

Q.  And motivation? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, I was motivated to play today.  Hasn't been a problem this week here.  I find when you're out there playing, that hasn't been the problem at all.  
 

Q.  When you say it's concentration, does that mean that on the court you simply -- what does it mean?  Are you thinking about things you shouldn't be thinking about or are you not as focused as you should be? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  In order to get the total concentration, you need to win matches, need to be out there week after week after week.  That's really how you build up something like that.  It only has to slip for a minute or two.  With match toughness, that's another thing, that's how you build that up.  Maybe you start to think a little bit, and that's usually how it happens.  You get a little bit unsure about yourself.  
 

Q.  Is there any, like, maybe in the back of your mind, "I've accomplished so much," maybe you lose -- 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Losing matches like this.  I don't want to say the word, but I don't like it.  I don't like it.  It's tough.  That's the way it is.  
 

Q.  Stefan, has it passed your mind that if Tony were still with you, it might be different? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  It might have been, yeah.  Nobody's going to know.  You can only predict maybe it would have been, maybe not.  I'll leave that up to you.  
 

Q.  Your choice. 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  He's working with Pete now.  He's pretty happy what he's doing.  
 

Q.  Where does is farewell tour make its next stop? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Monte Carlo is my next tournament. That's what I think I'll start playing next.  I have a few weeks off.  
 

Q.  What happens when you lose, you go out in a big place?  I know it's not a Grand Slam here, but it's quite a big stadium.  Do you sort of look around, back here again? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  At this point I've still got the doubles, so I'm going to try to see what I can do there.  I want to stick around here for as long as I can.  The weather is great.  I've got my family here.  It's cold getting back to Europe.  You tend to look around.  I've been here so many times.  
 

Q.  Wimbledon will be the one that really catches you in the throat? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, definitely.  
 

Q.  Forgetting Tony, some players recently have had coaches that really resuscitated their careers, Andre with Brad, and Boris even credits Bollettieri and DePalmer as well.  Did you think when things started to slip a little bit, did you think that maybe you should try and get a coach, somebody to work on your mind as well as your body? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  That could have been a good move, but it's a little bit too late now.  It could have been a good move.  
 

Q.  You didn't consider it? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  I thought about it, but I thought maybe I could do things myself.  
 

Q.  After winning the last match here, did you start thinking, "Maybe this could be something special this week"? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah.  I think every match is tough here, there's no question about that.  I knew I had a good chance winning today against Boetsch with the previous history.  At the same time I was still taking one match at a time here.  I've been hitting the ball sort of better and better for each match.  At one stage I was hitting it really well, the best I've hit it all year.  Suddenly you lose a little bit again.  
 

Q.  What was it you said about a problem with your wrist? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  I have a ganglion, it's like a cyst in your wrist.  
 

Q.  How was it today? 
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  It's been pretty good because I've been on anti-inflammatories.  Without them, it makes it a lot harder.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Thank you.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT