NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 12, 1996
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 JOE LYNCH:  Stefan Edberg, semifinalist here last year coming
off a quarterfinal at Scottsdale, wins today in a row match of
first rounds of the Aussie Open.  His five-setter with Jiri Novak
and a little bit easier today.  First question for Stefan. 

 Q.  What is the full name, Stefan, of your Foundation, the
one you have established?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Stefan Edberg Foundation for Young Swedish Tennis
Players.  It is a long one, so Stefan Edberg Foundation will be
just fine.  But it is run through the Federation and they are
looking after the kids in the program, and so it just got started.
 And I am supporting it financially to start with; hope to devote
some time to it once this year is over. 

 Q.  Now that you have made the decision that this is going
to be your last year, how do you feel about it?  Is it a sense
of relief like school is almost over?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  In a way, it is a little bit of a funny feeling.
 I know it is a limited time.  I have made a  decision and I will
stick by it, but I am trying to enjoy it the best way that I can,
but obviously, you need to play some good matches too and it has
been kind of rough the first two months of the year here.  It
is just the last couple of weeks, I have sort of felt that I have
picked up some speed, and, you know, I played a little bit better,
so that is important too, that you produce good tennis. 

 Q.  You got a little bit of a standing ovation after that?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, they have been really nice since I come
here.  I guess people have seen me play here throughout the years.
 This is a nice place to play.  It really is. 

 Q.  Did you look at the draw at all? It looked like pretty
difficult road that you got?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah.  Every tournament that I play in I am playing
top seeds or somebody that is tough, that has been the case since
I have been unseeded.  It is a tough one playing Michael Chang.
 He is a guy that you have to beat.  He is not going to give away
any shots.  We have had a lot of great matches in the past.  There
were sometimes since I did beat him.  But, you know, if I can
produce the tennis, that I did today, I have a chance. 

 Q.  When you are not playing do you ever watch -- become a
spectator and watch tennis?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, as of now I think being on the Tour, you
watch a lot of tennis through waiting around in the  lockerrooms.
 Once you are at home, I really don't watch that much tennis because
it is nice, I feel, to get away and not look.  Obviously if there
is a Wimbledon final, something like that coming up, I do try
to tune into it to watch a little bit because that you don't want
to miss, but apart from that I watch very little tennis, but that
may change down the road.  Who knows.

 Q.  Do you have a preference to watching the men's or the
women's game?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  I do prefer to watch the men's game. 

 Q.  Why is that?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, I don't want to get into that, but I do
prefer it.

 Q.  You just feel the caliber of tennis is better?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  I don't know.  I just prefer it. 

 JOE LYNCH:  More familiar with the people.

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah.

 Q.  Thirteen years without controversy don't want to start
any now.


 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the French Open.  How
do you think players like yourself, maybe the ones at the top
right now, Becker, Agassi, Sampras, how do you think they can
get that strangle hold that has been dominated --

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Last one missing for them, obviously, I think
Agassi would -- the game he has stands the best chance  of winning
the French.  He has been there in the finals quite a few times
and he really hasn't got it yet, but he has got the best chance.
 Sampras, you know, he has a little chance too.  He would need
to be hot for two weeks and that is pretty difficult on the clay.
You know, Becker I think it would be harder for him than for the
other two guys, but nothing is impossible and as long as you believe
it, that you believe that you can win it, you have a chance.

 Q.  Looking back at 89, was that a hot two weeks for you?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Oh, yes, it was definitely because that is the
best that I have ever played at the French Open.  I have played
some really good weeks on clay, but stringing together two weeks
in a row, that is much more difficult than winning a one week
tournament, which I have done a few times.  I have won on the
clay, but, you know, I really had one good chance 89.  I have
been in a few quarterfinals, but only one big chance that I had.


 Q.  Do you think it has gotten tough at all recently?  We
have had Bruguera and Muster win the last three years?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  That has always been tough to win any of the
Slams whether it is today, ten years ago, you are always going
to have some players that specialize and do well on the clay,
like Bruguera, Muster, that has been around for some time, and
before you had Borg, Vilas, lots of those guys, so it  has always
been hard to win.

 Q.  If you were going to give advice to Becker, Sampras who
have all-around serve and volley games like yourself on how to
succeed on the clay in Paris, what would it be?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  You got to stick to the game that you have. 
You can't really -- for Sampras, he needs to play serve and volley
quite a bit, and the same with Becker, Agassi needs to play his
game.  It is no point, you know, changing your game for that surface
because you got to use what you have got.  That is really important.
 It takes a lot of patience and it takes some luck too, because
you are going to face some uphill battles throughout the two weeks.


 Q.  Did you have good weather during your time in 89?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  No, I don't think.

 Q.  The draw --

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Not really.  I think the weather was sort of
-- there were some days where it was a little heavy.  It was a
mixture that two weeks, I believe, but I had the right weather
for the right day.  That is what it is about.

 Q.  So the opponent you played today you would probably not
want to meet him in Paris come --

 STEFAN EDBERG:  He is a good player, Novak, I think he is coming
from Mexico so I knew he would struggle today with the timing,
but he is a guy that really can become a good player if he does
work hard, and he is a good clay court player  already.  That
is probably his best surface. 

 Q.  Given the fact the results you have had recently haven't
been up to your usual standards.  Does a win like this one today
give you, perhaps, a little bit more satisfaction than --

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, today was great because I did play well
today.  Okay, the guy didn't play well today, I have to admit
that, but I did play well because I made very few mistakes, which
is always been my biggest benefit and I was maneuvering the ball
very well around the court and missing very few approach shots,
apart from one that I missed completely, but apart from that it
was a good day to be out there and these days you really enjoy
playing and I did today. 

 JOE LYNCH:  Anything else for Stefan?  Okay, thank you. 

 End of FastScripts........   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT