U.S. OPEN
August 28, 1995
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Stefan, last year Andre Agassi was unseeded here, and he won the tournament.
Obviously, it is a ways away. But what is the difference for you this year, being in that
role that he had last year?

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, for me, obviously, it is a different situation to being unseeded
-- being unseeded for the first time in a long time. That is, my ranking is not better
than at least a 20, so I knew coming in here -- I knew that coming in here, and I don't
know, I haven't thought about it that much, because once you are in the draw, you end up
playing, sooner or later, whether you are seeded or not. I mean, it is a tough section
playing Andre possibly, the third match and why not.

Q. Were you surprised to be in the first match today in the stadium considering the way
things have gone this year?

STEFAN EDBERG: I don't know. It is -- they are still nice to me. It is great playing
the first match today. You know which time you are going to play. I have been here for
some time. I lost first round last week and I have been practicing enough coming in here,
so it is nice to get a match under the belt and I am playing my next round probably on
Thursday now, at least, I am into the tournament, always makes you feel good.

Q. Always had good results at Wimbledon. Your career in some ways almost came to a peak
here. How does that make you feel about the tournament now and how different is it from
Wimbledon or from any other tournament?

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, to begin with, to be honest, I didn't really like this place too
much - to be a little bit modest. But I think it has grown. Winning here twice has made a
big difference and you sort of -- the more that I have played, the more that I have
appreciated coming here and knowing what it is, even if it is a little bit of a madhouse,
everybody knows that, but you just got to stay focused on what you are doing and try to
stay out of all the things happening around you. But it is a very special place; usually
have some good tennis here, last time of the year; it is on a good surface and, you know,
it is going to decide who is the best player this year, for instance, so it is always
going to be very special.

Q. Stefan, what is the difference without Tony Pickard coaching you?

STEFAN EDBERG: I am not sure. We are still very good friends. He is still around. He is
working with Petr Korda and looking out for myself a little bit. Of course, a little
different, but not a whole different from last year where he only worked with me at the
Slams. We sort of been gradually cutting back after we finished last year. I think we have
given each other what we could have possibly done over the years that we have worked
together.

Q. You don't think your game has suffered because of that?

STEFAN EDBERG: You can ask 100 questions why I am not in the top anymore; possibly you
can give a few answers; some you haven't got a clue and I have no idea.

Q. Wouldn't you feel kindly toward any venue where you'd won two Grand Slams?

STEFAN EDBERG: Yes. Yes, definitely.

Q. Starting with Wimbledon of 1983, you have now played in 50 straight Grand Slam
events.

STEFAN EDBERG: That much?

Q. According to the notes, yeah. Do you (A) take pride in that and (B) are you familiar
with Cal Ripkin the baseball player and people drawing comparisons to him at the start of
the year? That is a long time not to miss one?

STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, it is. I mean, it is something that I can be proud of because it
is not going to happen that many times because not being injured and not being hurt at any
time of those 50 Grand Slams, it is -- it is not going to happen to too many people and I
have been able to keep the streak going and I haven't really thought about it that much
not 'til somebody mentioned it last year I think that I played over 40 in a row. It is
good that you can be involved in each of them and have a chance of winning.

Q. Are you familiar with Cal Ripkin's streak and if so, do you draw any comparisons?

STEFAN EDBERG: I don't take that much interest in baseball. I heard about that streak.
He is playing tons of matches. I don't know how many it is, but I have heard about it.

Q. You always are very level headed and even about your career?

STEFAN EDBERG: Thanks (laughter).

Q. What do you feel you have left in you? Do you think you still have a role in the top
3 and potential as a Grand Slam winner?

STEFAN EDBERG: I am looking at it this way: This is really the first year in my whole
life I am facing something of a slight because, to me, it has just been going one way
track and it has been real easy -- this year, it is a little frustration and because I am
still working pretty hard, but the results hasn't been there, but I just sort of have to
settle down as I am now and try to get my game back together and that means working
possibly harder than I have done for some time and really try to focus on getting back to
which I'd like to because it is great being at the top of the game. I still have a couple
of months here to get things in pretty good order here. It is a tough situation to find
yourself in. I have to admit that. But it is just the way it is right now.

Q. Stefan, of the 4 Grand Slams, which one do you think you have the best chance of
winning again?

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I have said here and the Australian Open. Those are the two that I
feel that I have the best chance because I have played my best tennis on hardcourts in the
last couple of years. That is possibly where I still play my best tennis. 

Q. Stefan, I realize you don't follow the women's game all that closely, but you can't
help miss the Monica mania. Do you feel a little bit like the U.S. Open is Monica's U.S.
Open this year?

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, it could be a little bit like it was in 1991 where Connors made it
all the way through to the semifinal and this could be a Seles Open to say where everybody
else's could be a little bit in the background, but hey, why not, she is back and she is
playing well.

Q. Through that stretch of 50 Grand Slams, have you ever felt burnt out like some other
guys? Have you ever felt like I don't really want to go to this next Grand Slam?

STEFAN EDBERG: No. I have never really had that feeling. There has been times where I
haven't been in possibly my greatest shape. There has been sometimes where I have been a
little bit hurt, as well, but playing at the Slams, that still gets me fired up.

Q. What do you feel you need to do differently to play well here?

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, it all comes down to serving well. That is the key to my game. It
has been like that and if I can serve well and really stay focused on point by point by
point, that is what it is going to take. You know, you can't afford to have any lapses for
a couple of minutes. I feel that I am hitting the ball pretty well; been picking up in the
last couple of days. I played a solid match today. I did what I had. I felt pretty good. I
think winning first round obviously is going to do a lot of good for me.

Q. Do you feel you have a chance to win the tournament if you serve consistently?

STEFAN EDBERG: I still feel that I have a chance, yeah, I have to say that, if I am
playing the possibly best tennis that I can putting it together for two weeks, it is still
very possible.

End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT