NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 12, 1995
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.   How frustrating is it to let that one get away from you?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, it was an opportunity today.  I got off
to a really good start.  Played very well in the first set and
then gave him the chance to get back in the second set.  I had
early break point, first game, broke his strings, maybe I should
have come in on that shot, but I decided not to.  And he got back
in the second set and then he gave me a chance, I mean I played
well to get back in the third set, and get back in the driving
seat again, but then a few opportunities get by and missed two
volleys top of the net, and then he served the match out, so it
was a little bit frustrating when you think about it.  But on
the other hand, I played some good tennis today.  Then I am very
happy about, but obviously, you know, you -- sometimes you need
to win one of these matches and it would have been great if I
did you, but now I didn't, so I just have to get onto Key Biscayne
and hopefully improve and hopefully get into the final. 

 Q.   How hard is it that let call against you in the third
set there; he was about the only person in the stadium that --
how hard is that to forget something like that?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, it happens nearly every match, there is
either a bad call, a let cord, you have just have to accept it
at that time.  I didn't really think that much about it at the
time.

 Q.   He made two great ending volleys both one -- you have
to have a lot of-- serve and volleyer like yourself you have to
have a lot of respect?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  He played two great shots and it is -- you just
have to hand it to him.  That is all you can say.  It is too good
because I hit two good shots and he just hit two of the best shots
of the match.  It won him the match.

 Q.   Are you able to let yourself enjoy a match like that
when you are actually in the heat of the battle?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  I enjoy playing today because when I do play
well it is a great feeling being out there and I really enjoyed
it.  It is just frustrating at times out there when you sort of
-- you let it slip when you maybe shouldn't and then you are out
and you get back in the third set ; you break back and suddenly
 you are in the match and it is great being out there, but losing
these matches, it is not what you want to do.   It is one of these
matches you want to get back and win because it was little bit
similar to last week when I played Courier where I had an opportunity
to as well.  But I think it is just a matter of for me to getting
back playing good tennis again.  I think if I keep working these
moments are going to change because if you look at it when he
broke me, I hit two volleys in the top of the net.  It is not
like I am hitting it way, way out.  It is that much (INDICATING
TWO INCHES).  Hopefully, I am going to turn it around at one point
here very soon.  Because if I can play the tennis that I had produced
this week and today, that is going to take me a long way.

 Q.   How vulnerable do you think his second serve -- you had
obviously had to make a choice of coming in on it whenever you
had a chance?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  You mean, Pete?

 Q.   Yes.

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, Pete got a great first serve no doubt about
that.  Got a very good second serve as well, because unless you
are very firm, it you are not going to make it.  So -- but I return
his second serve pretty well today.  And you can't come in on
any serve  that he hits, so a lot of the times you just have to
play it back into court.  That is the way I feel because he has
got a lot of retention on his second serve.

 Q.   You are clearly not the number 16 player in the world?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Thank you.

 Q.   That is way too long.  At the same time, let me phrase
this gently here.  Would these kind of matches, when you were
22 or 23, be more easily turned your way, do you feel that.

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Not necessarily.  I think what has happened,
I had a really bad second half of last year and you know, you
are not going to switch it on in one week's time and for me, I
am sort of on my way up again and like I said, I think I probably
turned the corner sooner or later in the very near future, where
these few weeks here and there are going to turn in my favor if
I keep working and having a positive frame of mind.  It is going
to change because it always does if you keep working so, -- but
you cannot forget, I am playing against the best player in the
world as well and there is a reason for him being up there and
the reason is that he can really play these important points better
than anybody else.  He has done that in  the past.  So that is
really the difference today.

   End of FastScripts!      

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT