NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 11, 1995
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 GREG SHARKO:  Stefan's fifth semifinal here at the Newsweek Champions
cup.

 STEFAN EDBERG:  What do I get for that?

 GREG SHARKO:  A chance to go on.

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Fair enough.

 Q.   Why was Thomas able to overwhelm you so much at the start;
then you seemed to do the same to him?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  It was kind of a funny match, I thought.  I thought
Muster played very, very well. He hardly made a mistake for a
set and a half.  I was struggling, I have to admit, maybe because
Thomas was playing so well, and I had a tough time getting the
rhythm, tough time playing serve and volley, but it changed one
or two points, sort of around 3-4, 4-All and that is really what
turned the match around.  I got the break, he served a set love;
then I was playing very well for a couple of games.  It is just
one of these matches.  I have to consider myself very lucky winning
and maybe some of the stops actually helped me.  That is what
I believe.  But that is the way it goes sometimes. 

 Q.   Do you have some good talks to yourself during the rain
delays?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, I think -- I think when you are playing
like I was -- I wasn't playing well. Muster was playing well.
 But I was still staying with him.  You know, it was one all,
2-All, 3-All, 4-All, and then you still have the hope that something
is going to happen, but you have to make it happen and I started
playing a lot better and I started to make a good few good shots
and started to believe more in myself and also the fact that I
never lost to Thomas, I think that makes the difference, that
you still have the hope of getting through.

 Q.   Set 4-All, Love-15, it was starting to rain; it seemed
like you were going to play that one point.  What was going on?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, I knew that was the last one we were going
to play.  It was one of those points where, you know, I hit a
very close volley.  It was probably more "out" than
"in", but it could have caught the line.  On the other
hand, I slipped when I made the move too, so this was a little
bit of a break for me.  We sat down; then I played a great point
against Love-40 and suddenly, you know, the match turned around
completely.  And he -- obviously he must  be very disappointed.
 You could see it in the third set that he lost momentum.

 Q.   Stefan, what are your thoughts about tomorrow?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Hopefully no rain to start with.

 But I think, you know, there are two good guys playing out there.
 Obviously Pete, No. 1 player in the world, always tough to beat.
 We did have a great match last year and he is always tough to
beat.  Todd Martin, you know, he started to play a lot better
since he won in Memphis and that did a lot for him and he is hitting
the ball quite well. Obviously, I think Pete is the tougher one
to play, but we will have to wait and see what happens in that
match, but it is two similar players and, you know, I feel like
I have no pressure tomorrow.  I can go out there and play my game
and just enjoy myself and hopefully play well.

 Q.   I read somewhere, I think it was this week that you said
that you weren't worried about the ranking system at this stage.
 What are your main goals or motivation for this coming year?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  I still am capable of playing  well - I know
that.  And I still want to keep winning tournaments and I have
had a win the first week of this year and I feel like I am starting
to play a little bit better again and obviously everybody is trying
to play well when it really counts.  Grand Slams are still very
important to me; still feel within myself that with a little bit
of luck it is still possible to win one.  We have got Davis Cup
this year, defending champions, so it is quite a bit this year,
but I just want to get back playing good tennis again and just
don't put too much pressure on myself because there is no reason
to.

 Q.   Is Wimbledon the most likely Grand Slam in your mind?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, not necessarily.  I think maybe I have
my best chances at the Australian Open and the U.S. Open playing
on the hard courts. That is where I play the best tennis in the
last couple of years, but, you know, grass has always been a good
surface to me, so that is possible too.

 Q.   What has caused this improvement in your game that you
acknowledge that you are playing better now; how did that come
about?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  I think it is very much mental.  It also has
to do with a physique.  I feel like I am getting a bit stronger
again and I think  winning matches like today, that makes you
a better tennis player; makes you believe more in yourself; just
need to get a little bit of momentum and play solid for a period
of time and I have played pretty decent this year.  This is my
fourth event in three of the events I have been in the semifinal
or better, so that is what I want to achieve to get a little consistency.
 If I get the consistency back I can always have chances of getting
into the finals and winning.

 Q.   Is it possible that the change in coaching had anything
to do with this?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, at the moment I am sort of working my own
mind and thinking what I am doing and doing my own things and,
you know, that might be good to do that for a period of time.
 I mean, it is sort of -- something a little bit new, even if
I played a lot on my own last year, sort of this year I am pretty
much on my own, but I think it can be good for you at times and
take a month at a time if need be if, I need to get somebody else;
I could possibly find somebody, but it is not easy.  I mean, you
got to find somebody which you believe in and that you find that
you can get along with.

 Q.   Stefan, what kind of person will that be, if you had
to look for somebody, who could it possibly be? 

 STEFAN EDBERG:  It is very difficult to say because, you know,
Tony and I have done it for such a long time and little bit tough
to find somebody as good as Tony, and I don't know.  I really
don't know.

 Q.   Is he out of the question totally?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  No, not.  He is not.  I mean, he is sort of thinking
of what he is going to do, so that is not totally out of the question.
 If he wants to start traveling again, if his wife wants him to
start traveling, that is the question.  So it is not totally out
of the picture.

 Q.   Is it possible you have to have a coach or you --

 STEFAN EDBERG:  I have to wait and see.  I have been around long
enough to know a lot about this game and obviously coaches can
do a lot of help for you especially in the beginning of your career,
but if you think about it at the end you are out there on your
own on the court; you have got to do the playing; you have got
to do the thinking.  You are going to make your own decisions
once you are on the court.  You can't forget that.  But some players
need to have people around -- need to have a lot of people around;
some players like myself, don't want to have a lot of people around
me. We are all very different. 

 Q.   I want to ask you about a commercial that you made for
Adidas, I think, in Europe.  I don't know if it has been shown
in here.  What I saw, you were in a lot of sort of different disguises;
sort a lot of fun. Can you describe the experience; how much input
you had?  It seemed a little bit our of character.

 STEFAN EDBERG:  They came up with the idea. Adidas came up with
quite a few, but basically what it was about, doing some different
sort of strange, what we would call, jobs, and, you know, it was
kind of fun to do it, even if it was a lot of hard work because
it took about 40 hours of my time and when you do go to the studios,
you do it; you have no idea what it is going to come out like.
 No idea.  I mean, to me, it was kind of crazy the things that
I did, but it was something very unlike me and that is sometimes
what commercial is all about, "is this really Stefan Edberg,"
you know, it makes people realize he is really doing this and
it catches your eye, so it was a good commercial and it did its
purpose, I think.  I am not sure whether it has been shown here
in the states, I have no idea.  But. . .

 Q.   So you thought the end product reflected a lot of different
personalities that are in you?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, it was something very,  very different,
but it turned out to be quite a good one.  I have heard a lot
of positive things about it.

 Q.   Is there a mad scientist in you?

 STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, you know, Craig, don't you?  I am not going
to answer that one.  (Stefan says in a deep voice.) Maybe I don't
know about it myself.

        End of FastScripts!        

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT