COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1994
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Stefan was that a case of one match too many  this year?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, it wasn't easy today,  and I played a lot of tennis in the last nine, ten  weeks and I tried what I could today and it wasn't  enough.   
 

Q.  You looked sort of drained as a result of  perhaps the weekend?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, I wasn't on my highest  energy level, but I guess it could have been the same  for him.  We both played Davis Cup last week, and you  are normally a little bit drained after that, but  overall, it was not a bad match.  There were some good  points; obviously there were some bad points as well.  We both worked hard for it.   
 

Q.  After practicing with him for at least a  week, was it tough to get into a fighting spirit  against --  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah.  My biggest problem  today was really getting up, which you need for these  matches, and -- but, you know, he is a good player.  He  is playing very well indoors, and he has got a big  serve which got him out of trouble a lot of the times.   
 

Q.  Stefan, what did you say to each other when  you saw the draw?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  We knew before we went to  Davis Cup and obviously, you know, we both would have  liked to have played somebody else.  We are only three  Swedes here, but at least the good thing is one of us  would advance.   
 

Q.  Stefan, even though you are here, the Grand  Slam tournament didn't bring what you expected of  them.  Are you going to prepare in any other way next  year because I know they are your priorities?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Sure.  Well, not much  difference because what I need is a little bit of a  break now; get away for a week or two.  That is going  to be important because there is nothing wrong with  it.  Tennis is just in the -- I really played 10 weeks  in a row which is way, way too much for me.  And I just  need to get away for two, three weeks and then, you  know, I will start a new year in the sunshine and I  will be okay, I think.  I just have to pace myself and  be careful so I don't play too much.  I just have to  play and take a little bit of a break and go out and  play again.  That will be my strategy for next year.   
 

Q.  You will play less events?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Next year will be less.  I  mean it, too.   
 

Q.  Can you tell us what the celebrations were  like on Sunday?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  We had to go to the banquet  at the Kremlin which was an experience, and it ended up  actually being one of the best banquets that we have  been to.  It was a lot of fun and obviously a little  celebration and a little dancing, things like that, so  it was really a good evening.  We had a little  celebration on Saturday too because that is really when  you feel that you have won it.   
 

Q.  You are definitely going to play Davis Cup  next year?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah.  Definitely.  I think  it is important; especially for me being Swedish.  I  think it is very important that the best players  support Davis Cup because it is one of the major  events, and there is nothing that is as big as Davis  Cup in Sweden.  It actually is bigger than almost  winning a Grand Slam on your own, because it is really  important.  It has always been important to me too, and  I have played Davis Cup now ten, eleven years in a row,  and I will play until, you know, whatever.   
 

Q.  Are you a bit disappointed that it would  appear that a lot of your fellow top players don't  share that I mean, judging by the --  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, it's a pity because  with a history we have with Davis Cup, nations playing  against nations, I think you want to keep that  tradition going and have the best players playing and  it is important.  I mean, I have always supported Davis  Cup, but other players may feel differently if they  come from somewhere else.   
 

Q.  How have the reactions been in Sweden?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  It has been very positive.  I  think that is really what we needed, was a lift for  Swedish tennis, and actually has really been good  things.   
 

Q.  Stefan, isn't it a problem because of the  first round being immediately after the Australian Open  which, I gather, the ATP decided couldn't be a week  later?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  No, I think you have to  sacrifice with Davis Cup, and I always had to do that  because you are never going to find a perfect schedule  which is going to fit everybody.  There is going to be  one date, possibly two dates, where you are going to be  struggling with travelling, and I have had to do that  for ten years.  And wherever you put the Davis Cup  matches is always going to be at a bad time somewhere  along the line.  Because there are so many tournaments  around the world; so there is really no choice and you  may as well get rid of the first round early on.   
 

Q.  But for this year, they have actually moved  the ATP tournaments which were in the past been  immediately after the Australia; they are now a week  later instead of putting the Davis Cup in that week  they have actually put it immediately after the  Australian Open?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, that is what they have  done.   
 

Q.  Which has caused a lot of problems with other  players.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, it is going to affect  some players, but when you think about it, you are  going to have four players in the semifinals.  If you  are losing in the quarters that means you have -- you  have actually nine days until you start playing Davis  Cup so that is enough time to fly and get ready, so it  is really affecting four players; that is the ones that  make it to the semifinals of Australia, so it is not  that bad, I don't think.   
 

Q.  How do you consider the season?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Not a great one.  Not if you  look at my standards in the past.  There has been some  good times of the year.  There has been some bad times.  But overall, for me, it hasn't been a good season.  I  am still No. 7 in the world, which is not that bad, but  I would have wished at least to ended up in the top  five, and I would have wished to have done a lot better  in the Grand Slams.  That is really what has been wrong  this year, I think.   
 

Q.  In spite of the Davis Cup victory there are  some problems with the Swedish committee.  What do you think about it?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, I am not going to make  too many comments.  I know a little bit of what is  going on, but I don't know all the details, but it is  something which is going to be solved and, you know, I  think it is going to work out very well in the end.  I  don't think we have heard the last bit of it.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT