ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1994
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Stefan, do you think you had him after that  first set comeback?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, the chances were better  because winning the first set after coming back from a  break obviously was important.  But then he played a  good second set.  But my big chance was in the third  set when he doublefaulted to give me the break, and the  very next game I played a few not very good points and  that let him back into the match.  So that is really  where I had my chance.  


Q.  You haven't played him in a long time.  Any  differences?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Last time we played was in  Qatar in beginning of '93; some reason we haven't ended  up playing at all because, you know, earlier we played  like six, seven, eight times a year.  Last couple of  years we really haven't played that much.  


Q.  Stefan, after working so hard and yet the  first two matches to lose like this, how depressing is  that?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, in one way it is  disappointing to lose matches where you had a chance of  losing 7-6 yesterday, losing 7-5 today, but on the  other hand, I played some good tennis this week, the  best tennis I played for a long time, and that is the  positive side about it.  And I have enjoyed playing the  three matches that I did play, and so I don't know.  I  have to take something positive out of it.  


Q.  Stefan, what about this integretity question  with regard to who is going to advance as far as  whether Becker lost; all these questions, how can the  ATP resolve that?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, if you play round  robin, there is no way to resolve who is going to go.  It makes it, in a way, very interesting, but in a way  it can end up being very, very strange at the same  time.  But then you have the straight knockout.  There  is only those two things to play here, and I don't know  which is the best thing.  


Q.  How do you deal with it on the court in  reality, are you thinking well, Becker can lose, it  doesn't matter or --  

STEFAN EDBERG:  The way I look at it, I go  out there and every game is very important because it  can come down to set; it can come down to games; you  just have to go out and win every match.  But on the  other hand, you know a little bit about what you are  going to do because everybody keeps telling you, so you  can't avoid it.  I knew I had to win today.  That was  quite clear.  If I would have won today, I would have  qualified and I knew that too.  


Q.  What I mean is, are you thinking that Becker  knows that he can lose and still make it and keep  Sampras out and so forth; are you thinking like that in  real life during a game?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  No, not when I am playing,  you know, you are so into playing the guy on the next  side of the net so you just focus in on winning and in  my mind, I had to win today, so I kept myself positive  and I worked very hard today, but it didn't work out.  


Q.  Does this game seem any different to you than  it used to the last time you played him; has he evolved  in any way?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  No.  I mean, it is always  great to play Boris because we have had a lot of great  matches.  It always brings out something special when  the two of us play.  It is always nice if you can beat him.  I  guess he feels the same way if he beats me, so I know  it is tough to play Boris; especially here at home with  the crowd cheering for him as well.  But it makes it  exciting being out on the court.  


Q.  You are a very solid player over the last ten  or eleven years, Boris has always his ups-and-downs.  Did you expect him to be back how he is now?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, I wasn't sure because  he has had a lot of ups-and-downs and I wasn't 100%  sure where he was going to come back and be playing  well again.  I was a little doubtful at once, I have to  admit.  He has got his act together and he is playing  well right now, but, you know, it is whether he can  keep it going now.  That is going to be the tough thing  for him because in a couple of months he will be  playing outdoors and that is a little different.  


Q.  What is the secret for you guys, you are over  25; you are family men; you are father and you are  still playing great tennis out there?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  I enjoy being out there still  and it is moments like this when you are playing  against the best guys out there, those are the best --  how should you say it -- it is a great feeling being  out there playing against the best and that is what I  enjoy and this is a very important match and you want  to be out there.  That makes it special.  That is why  it keeps -- I still keep playing.  


Q.  In the second set there was such a bad call  when you hit that ball on the line and it was good.  How long --  And you through the racket.  

STEFAN EDBERG:  That was in the third set.  


Q.  How long takes it until you forget that?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, it was a very crucial  time of the match because, you know, you can only hit  that ball on the line; once you hit it on the line, you  feel it is my point, but there is an umpire there --  that would have given me 15-40, so you just you feel  bad for a couple of points; you do, because you knew  you had the chance and suddenly, 30-All, he hits a big  ace and it is 40-30, within a minute, so those things  are hard to face sometimes.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT