ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1994
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Bad luck, Stefan; a tremendous effort.  Do you think it came down to the fact that  Sampras in the end just suddenly seemed to lift his  last couple of games -- last game and in the tiebreak  --  

STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, I think he came quite  strong towards the end.  I hung in there and I got  myself to a tiebreak, and I think the beginning of the  tiebreak was very important.  And once he got ahead, he  just played too well.  I really didn't have any chance  in the tiebreak, so... But overall, I played a good  match and I played good tennis, and I had a chance.  


Q.  Against Becker, if you win it, you still  could qualify for the semifinals.  Have you any thoughts with that match yet.  

STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, I know I still have a  chance, and I feel if I am playing the way I have been  playing the last two matches, there is no reason why I  don't have a chance tomorrow, even if it is a difficult  match; there is no doubt about that.  But I am just  going to go out there and do my things and we just see  how far it will take me.  


Q.  Did the match yesterday lift you in terms  of --  

STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, it did.  Because I  played a solid match yesterday and confident.  It was  important.  And I felt good today and I have been  feeling quite good the last couple of days.  I am  hitting the balls well.  When I am hitting the ball  well, then I have a chance to play, play with all the  guys.  


Q.  Stefan, did you see any kind of weakness with  Sampras?  I mean, he looked flawless.  

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I think, you know, first  set I played very, very, very well, and I returned his  serve very well, but I think he got stronger and  stronger, and I think what really got him back into the  match, when he hit that forehand down the line and he  broke me in the second set.  After that, he played  very, very solid and didn't give me many chances.  Maybe I was up to 30-All, deuce, a couple of times, but  after that, very solid.  


Q.  Anything surprising happen against him when  you play him now or is it all stuff that you know is  going to happen since you play so often?  

STEFAN EDBERG: It is not many changes when  you do play him.  And when I am playing well, I always  have a good chance against him.  And if I can serve  well like I did today, there are going to be some close  matches in between us and it has been in the past  before as well.  So I have quite enjoyed playing him  because he hits the ball so well; he hits it very clean  and he is a great competitor, and I enjoy playing  against him.  


Q.  Did you think back to Davis Cup at all today  in any sense?  

STEFAN EDBERG: Not really that much.  It was  not a match -- we played earlier in Indian Wells this  year and we played a very close match there where I had  some chances.  So I thought about that.  If I just can  play well I have got a good chance.  Because he had the  pressure on today.  He needed to win today.  


Q.  Stefan, he seems to be as dominating in  tennis today as you were in '90.  Would you be surprised if he did not win  this.  

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I think he has been  dominating the first part of the year, very true.  He  struggled a little bit in the latter part of the year  and he is going to have to work hard beginning of next  year because he is going to face some pressure, but he  is a player which can stay on the top for quite  sometime, I believe so because he hasn't really got any  weaknesses any longer.  


Q.  Had you had a chance to see much of Agassi in  the last couple of months play?  

STEFAN EDBERG: I have watched him a little  bit and he is playing his best tennis in his life, I  think, and what is really changed for him is he is  playing a lot smarter.  He doesn't go for crazy shots  any longer and that is why he is winning, I think.  He  is making very few mistakes and keeping the ball in  play.  


Q.  When you say that Pete doesn't have any  weaknesses any longer, what do you think the things  that he had --  

STEFAN EDBERG: Before on the mental side he  was a little bit weak before.  I think he has worked on  that.  He is playing very well from the back of the  court now, which he perhaps didn't do; before he missed  a lot of on his forehand, but he doesn't do that any  longer, so has got a very steady game.  


Q.  It may be an unfair question to ask you, but  would you have said that he was the favorite to win  this title the way people have been playing coming into  it?  

STEFAN EDBERG: No, I wouldn't say he is a  favorite, no, definitely not.  I think there is -- that  it's very open here.  A lot of things can happen.  Becker did beat him yesterday, but I think if he picks  up his game, he is one of the favorites; that is for  sure.  But he is not going to have an easy task here.  


Q.  What did you tell him at the net when he fell  there on that net ball?  

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, he told me I was very  lucky.  I said, yes, indeed, but I need it.  I need a  little bit of luck.  


Q.  You have played Becker so many times; some  people say it's the best Becker ever.  Would you agree?  

STEFAN EDBERG: That he is --  


Q.  The best playing the best he ever been  playing?  

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, he is playing some of  his best tennis; probably not his best tennis I think  he did that in the '80s, but he is playing very well at  the moment.  He is playing close; probably playing the  best that he can play right now, that is for sure  because he is very confident.  He is moving well, and  he has played very well the last couple of months.  


Q.  You are a great tennis player, but I'd like  to ask you one question.  What would you do if you wouldn't play  tennis?  

STEFAN EDBERG: What I would do?  


Q.  Yeah.  You wouldn't have so much money.  

STEFAN EDBERG: I don't know.  I have always  been a great admirer of sport.  I probably would have  been in some other sport - I am pretty sure.  I would  have tried anyway because I always enjoyed watching  other sports and being a sportsperson, that is logical,  I think.  


Q.  So you would be a sport teacher or something?  

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, even another  professional sport.  I think it is possible.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT