ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1994
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Stefan, could you sense that it wasn't going  to be the average match with Goran?  

STEFAN EDBERG: I mean, yeah, sometimes when  you play Goran -- I played him a lot of times.  Sometimes when he gets his serve going he is a very,  very difficult player, but he made a lot of errors  today, I thought.  He didn't serve very well, and I  took the opportunity today and I played my tennis;  didn't make many mistakes and that was pretty much it.  I thought about the match.  It went very, very quick.  


Q.  Are you playing in this tournament with fewer  expectations given that you came in No. 8?  

STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, I can play pretty loose  here.  I came in here as the last one to qualify.  I am  happy to be here and I feel if I am playing my tennis;  if I am playing relaxed, you know, I have a chance  here, as well as anybody else.  


Q.  You look pretty strong in practice already?  

STEFAN EDBERG: I felt quite good the last two  days.  I mean, obviously I felt terrible last week  getting sick, and I had to stay in bed for a couple of  days, but sometimes when you have been sick and  suddenly you start feeling healthy again, you get a  little bit of a kick-in and that is what I feel.  


Q.  So Stefan you haven't done any special  preparation for this tournament, what a difference than  two years ago?  

STEFAN EDBERG: No, I have stayed in bed.  That has been the preparation.  I mean, I have played a  lot of tennis and I played -- this is my 6th week in a  row where I am playing.  I wasn't supposed to play last  week, but I really had to in order to make this week so  it has been a lot of tennis.  


Q.  Coming back from the Love-40, you figured  that nailed him?  

STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, I think that was a very  important stage of the match because I was in total  control up 'til then and I played, you know, he played  a good point.  I played a couple of dodgey points and  suddenly I was down Love-40, but, you know, then I hit  some good serves and suddenly it was back to deuce, and  once I got over that game, he never really had a chance  after that.  That was really the only chance he had to  get back into the match.  So it was a very crucial, you  know, time of the match.  


Q.  Seems everybody is asking about this  Berasategui thing.  What is your opinion about it?  

STEFAN EDBERG: I have said so, you know, he  has qualified here.  He has done what he had to do that  is playing well on the clay and he took his  opportunities; well done to him, I think.  But on the  other hand, you know, it is always a questionmark where  you have somebody having their best 14 results only on  clay and haven't won any other matches on any other  surface, but everything is possible and, you know, he  came through the system, so well done.  


Q.  A lot of players are complaining about the  balls.  What is your opinion about them?  

STEFAN EDBERG: The best balls I played with.  They have been a little bit inconsistent in  practice, but the balls we were playing with tonight  were beautiful.  


Q.  When was the last time you played so well?  

STEFAN EDBERG: I played as well in Hong Kong,  the exhibition that I did win, and that was only a  couple of weeks ago, and if I can play relaxed and play  the way that I did play tonight, then I got a good  chance tomorrow as well.  


Q.  Stefan, griping about balls and surfaces and  fans seems to be a weekly occurrence.  I mean, do you  get tired of that or do you agree with much of it?  

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, we have to discuss  something and it is a lot of things up in the air at  the moment, and of course you take part of it because  it is part of tennis.  There is a lot of issues that we  are discussing at the moment because very much because  of an article in Sports Illustrated earlier this year  which created a wave of questions about tennis and we  have to try to answer some of them and that is what is  happening.  


Q.  Stefan, what do you think of the new rule of  the ATP this year which said that if a player cannot  play the alternate will take his place?  

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I think it is good that  you have somebody in order to take their place here if  something happens and I am not quite sure what does  happen because I am not quite familiar with the rule  because it is a new one, but why not.  


Q.  But did the ATP ask you your opinion?  

STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, yeah they did.  They  asked everybody their opinion.  I said my opinion and  probably they drew the conclusion from what everybody  said and what was in the biggest favor from the  players.  That is what happened.  


Q.  Are we going to see some major change coming  in at the end of this week and months ahead from the  ATP?  

STEFAN EDBERG: Well, there are things we are  discussing.  I think we are going to see some changes  because I think we need to make some changes and I  think in the next couple of months, I am sure you will  hear something about some changes that will take place  very soon.  I am sure about that.  


Q.  Who is discussing it and when is it being  discussed?  

STEFAN EDBERG: Players discussions; we are  talking about the ATP Tour representatives and there  are quite a few issues which are under discussions and  what it is, you have to guess, but you will know soon,  I am sure.  


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT