ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 14, 1994
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Obviously you had a bad week in terms of, you  know, getting sick and good luck to get in, bad luck to  not play.  Where do you stand now going in?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well I'm healthy, that's the  main thing.  And, you know, I played a lot of tennis in  the last couple of weeks and haven't really played that  well; been struggling a little bit.  Little bit sad  that I couldn't play last week because it would have  helped me tremendously.  Now I'm there and have a  chance like anybody else to do well.   
 

Q.  You're in, probably, the worst group you  could have asked for, aren't you?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah.  If you look at the  groups, I think it's quite a big difference when you  look at it; you've got the serve and volley group, the  big hitters, and you've got the baseline group.  So  there is a difference.  But on the other hand, the one  -- the two players that can come through tomorrow has  probably come through some tough matches and can  benefit towards them.   
 

Q.  So, obviously, you have to look at it, you're  in with a chance, right?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Certainly.  I'm here and I  certainly have a chance.  And if I can produce my best  tennis, it gives me an opportunity.   
 

Q.  What about that infection business, what was  it?  Did Sampras go to --  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: I'm sort of wondering whether  he did or not, but it's probably not the same thing  that he had, you know.  I had a fever for 24 hours, and  I was pretty much knocked for 48 hours.  But I'm  recovering quite well here.  And I didn't play anything  for three days, and I started everything yesterday, and  hopefully by the time I'm starting Wednesday I'll be  feeling pretty much ready to go.   
 

Q.  Obviously we've all gone over the same ground  before, but this has not been your very best year in  tennis; no grand slam finals -- we know there is a  chance to make it up at the Davis Cup, but generally  speaking, in terms of, you know, the last ten years,  where does this one kind of relate?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, obviously it's not a  good one; only semifinal at the Australian Open, I have  some victories though at some tournaments but it's been  a big disappointment; especially in the Grand Slams  where I haven't really performed at all, I don't  think.  Sometimes you have to face facts that, you  know, you may have a bad year at one stage, but I  really haven't had too many bad years in my career and  -- considered to a lot of other players, it's not a  disaster year.  I'm still number eight in the world,  still in the top ten but, you know, would have wished  to have some better results.  But I can make it up a  little bit.  But by doing well here, I still have a  chance to win here, I still have a chance to win the  Davis Cup, so it could still be a good end towards the  end.  But, you know, it's going to be next year.   
 

Q.  You are talking about an extremelyly high  standard.  I mean, just because you didn't the get the  Grand Slam final, you know, it's not the end of the  world.  But given that you didn't play with such a high  standard and you're the first one to say that, you  know, it's the game is getting tougher, I mean, do you,  somewhere in the back of your mind, see a time you're  not going to be playing?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: There's going to be a time  when I will stop.  There's going to be a time when  everybody stops.  You know, it's hard to say when it's  going to be because it all depends on myself; how I can  keep myself motivated; how can I stay out of injuries,  and how I'm going to perform over the next couple of  years.  So at the moment, I take one year at a time.  I'm just going to take it as IT comes because I'm sure  I'm going to feel when it's time to stop.   
 

Q.  You'll know it?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, yeah, it will come to  me.   
 

Q.  Well, thinking about next year, it's not very  long until next year starts; it's the first five  minutes of January?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, I have -- I mean, I  always like starting in Austrailia because it's usually  the beginning of the year.  You can leave the year  behind you; whether it's been a good one.  You know,  it's sort of a safety box.  If it's a bad one, it's  behind you, you can start a new one.  So, you know, I'm  looking quite good for next year, I think.   
 

Q.  Rosset said in Paris, well I don't know about  Australia because we like to ski in Switzerland.  And I  mean, you're not exactly immune; you know what the  winter is, you know, in Sweden, and the Swedes seem to  like it down there?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Oh yeah, I think it's a great  time of year because you spend like November, December   -- it's very dark in Europe, the weather isn't  particularly good.  It's sort of a wakeup call when you  get down to the sun and I really do enjoy that.   
 

Q.  Could I ask you one side question just about  doubles?  You've played doubles, you know, championship  level, but obviously when you're a top ten single  player, that doesn't exist anymore.  I mean doubles, do  you have any theories about that?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I think it's very hard  to compete well both in singles and also doubles.  I  could do it when I was younger, when I was a good  doubles player and a good singles player at the same  time.  But for me, I've reached my goals in doubles and  I know that I can't play doubles every week in the  year.  I did play doubles. It was more to help my  singles game.  But when I did play doubles, I enjoyed  it because it's a nice way of playing tennis because  the pressure is not really there on me and I could  enjoy myself.  So I do like playing doubles.   
 

Q.  What do you think about -- I mean, just guys  that play doubles, I mean not that they're any less  tennis players, but that's a different kind of breed,  isn't it?  I mean, what would a top ten guy like  yourself -- what do you think when you see guys playing  doubles.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, now, there's certain aspects how they  are a little bit on the doubles Tour and there's a  singles Tour.  It's a great opportunity for a lot of  guys to go around the world to do something they love  doing and still making quite a bit of money.  So it's  very possible.   
 

Q.  You don't think they're overpaid?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I don't want to make too  much comments.   
 

Q.  Comment about the groups?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, I think everybody has to  agree that there is actually a difference in the group  this year; more than it's been in quite some time.  But  that's the way it comes out, you know, because one and  four and five and eight and one -- or you're in one  group and the other is going the other direction.  It's  just the way it has come up this year.  When you look  at it, you've got the seven volleyers, the big hitters  in one group and more of the baseliners in the other  group.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, it's -- I always find it  when you're playing indoors it's always easy to play  against the baseliners because at least you get to  play; and that's my opinion.   
 

Q.  ( Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah.   
 

Q.  Goran said yesterday this surface is a little  bit slower than in previous years.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: It could be.  I think this  surface isn't a big difference.  I think the balls are  playing quite slow, at least when we've been  practicing.  It may be a little bit different when we  play in matches when we change balls, and maybe it's  going to not be popular, but it's quite a good place, I  think.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, yeah, yeah, I definitely  think so, yeah.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, we can always argue back  and forth.  He has always qualified under the current  system and he's done what he's able to do, and he's  done it very well; there's no doubt about that.  But  there's always a question mark when you have all the 14  tournaments in one surface.  There's going to be cases  like this and I don't know what to say.  I mean, he  qualified so you just congratulate him in that, but  there's a question mark, I think.   
 

Q.  But there's a possibility then you can  play -- (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah.  I mean, that's the  ideal thing to have -- it's like having your ranking  where you need to have, but you can never find a  perfect system.  You know, you have to play under the  current system.  If you see opportunities and, you  know, everybody has a chance to go and check it but --   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: I don't know.  I mean, I don't  know what to change.   
 

Q.  What's going on with all of the tricks and  everything?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, one of them.   
 

Q.  You and the Federation fight to ask the  abandoned players (inaudible).  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: You would certainly know him.  He works for Magnus Larsson.  It's always good when you  go to a country where you haven't been before, to get a  little bit of feedback to what you can expect because  it's not like your traveling in Europe.  It's a little  different than -- and I think it's -- they've  definitely been preparing the best way they can.   
 

Q.  You don't have any other tricks besides Goran   -- (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: No, I'm sorry.  There's a few  others I don't want to talk about.   
 

Q.  I mean, it's still -- you know, everybody  seems to be excited among you guys in the Davis Cup;  maybe more so than a lot of other countries would be.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah.  I think Sweden -- Davis  Cup is something incredible big in Sweden because it  gets really into the Swedish homes and, you know, they  take the -- for the Davis Cup, and I think Russia, they  first coming in the Davis and I -- Davis Cup final,  there's been a touch there of interest.  There's going  to be a big interest in both countries during this  Davis Cup finals.  And I think Davis Cup, perhaps in  Russia and Sweden, is more important than it would be  in many other countries.   
 

Q.  Would it save your year if you win the Davis  Cup?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, it would make up quite a  bit.   
 

Q.  So you're talking doesn't -- (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: No, -- yeah, I mean if we can  play with that team, it's the best team they put out.   
 

Q.  I think that will be the best way.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: That's the best team they put  out.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: No, I'm going to play a little  bit less next year.  I think I need to because it's  been a little bit too much tennis this year and I think  I have to be more careful.  I'm not overplaying because  I think it's more important for me to be prepared when  I go to a tournament; to be motivated, to be hungry,  you know, I have to give myself a couple of breaks in  the year next year.  And as the schedule is for me next  year, there's going to be a couple of breaks.  But you  can never be sure it's going to happen because injuries  can bring a lot of problems, and I have to be more  careful.   
 

Q.  Are you going to play much lighter  tournaments as you did this year or --  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: No -- I don't know.  I haven't  been in too many claycourt tournaments.  I've left it  out.  And I feel better.  I'd like to play, you know,  as to -- a wild card in some of the tournaments.  Let's  see how I feel and how I go.  So, let's look at the  first two or three months of next year, that's where  I'm planning ahead right now.  Once I get a little bit  closer to the claycourt season, I will start thinking  about that.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: No, I feel a lot better.  I  was out for a couple of days and I get sick very  seldom, but once it happens, it strikes me.   
 

Q.  So are you in shape for this tournament?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yes, I would say so.  I don't  have any injuries.  I've played quite a bit of tennis  this fall and so I'm ready for this tournament.   
 

Q.  Did you take your family from Sweden?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: My what?   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I still keep my  residence in London for now.  Once you stop playing  tennis, then you just hope to talk to one another what  you want to do.  There's been manyu opportunities.   
 

Q.  ( Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, you can always say  that.  French Open, it's always been a dream, but  that's fading away a little bit.  I still believe that  I can win another Grand Slam, you know, if everything  goes right.  But it didn't go well in playing the  best.  But I'm playing.  I'm playing the best tennis,  so that keeps me going.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: I think my best chance is in  Austrailia and the U.S. Open.  That's what I feel.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: I think the chances are better  in Austrailia.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, but I'm not sure how  tight they're going to be because it's ridiculous how  -- (Inaudible.)   
 

Q.  Is it too late to qualify for this  tournament?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: For me it's never been a  problem before.  This year it's been a problem.   
 

Q.  What problems?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Kind of a little bit  frustrating because you can't plan your schedule, and I  had to play an extra scheduled tournament last June to  make sure I had the chance, because normally it would  have been better to have that week off.  But, you know,  it's my own fault because I played very well in the  beginning and I played well in the summer, but since  the middle of summer and August I haven't been able to  collect a point.  So I could have been in the Masters,  you know, up to the summer, but I didn't and it's been  a little bit frustrating.   
 

Q.  Was there a bit of feeling like nerves that  you never felt before?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: No, I wouldn't say so.  It  feels good to qualify for Frankfurt because that's  where I still believe I belong, you know, to be there  and it would have been a little bit sad to have missed  it this year.  And the way I looked at it at the end,  you know, I know I was very close the last week and I  was going to go and play in Antwerp.  I had the extra  because I was number eight.  If I didn't keep playing  well in Antwerp, there was a good chance I was going to  qualify.  But, you know, it fell apart so..   
 

Q.  In theory, it's national attention.  You've  been playing indoors against the big hitters and --  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah.  I mean, my chance is  always going to be there.  I can't perform well, but I  think I have a chance to win here.  It's important that to keep succeeding in  tournaments and it's always going to be in the record  books.  I think it's a different game number eight than  number five.  To me it's quite important, and  especially at the end of the year where you see you can  measure yourself how you have performed because  normally most places the rankings tells the truth,  especially by the end of the year, who's performed the  best.  It is important.   
 

Q.  There is a chance that the tournament will  move to another city or other another continent; Asia  is a big one, and they're trying to have it.  Do you  prefer to have it -- you've played in New York.  Would  you like to play it in Asia or do you have a  preference?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I have a preference;  being in Europe, obviously, I think even if I'm a  European, it makes more sense to play here because most  of the tournaments like Stockholm and Paris are all in  Europe, so the players are going to be here anyway.  So  I would like to see it be here.  You know, we've had it  in New York before and that was quite good; not as good  as it's been here.   
 

Q.  Sampras drank a liter of yellow stuff  yesterday in the first set.  Is that -- (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: It varies from  person-to-person; sometimes you need more.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: No, I had antibiotics.   
 

Q.  Who was the biggest surprise this year?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Biggest surprise?   
 
Any help?   
 

Q.  Sampras getting injured?  

Q.  What about Andre getting a rise?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, it's quite a healthy one  for tennis.  No, it's -- it's hard to tell.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: That surprises everyone.  I  mean, like Agassi, that's a surprise and Berasategui,  that's a surprise.  Nothing surprises me any longer.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.) -- you are able to play your  game but the game has changed?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, the game has changed.  I  mean, I changed a little bit myself.  You adapt to  what's happening around you.  I've been lucky that I've  been pretty healthy, stayed out of injuries and I've  worked harder; a lot of discipline.  So that's why I  was at the top for a long time.  I think I still have  the motivation during all the years.  It's not getting  easier, that's for sure.  There's always young guys  coming up wanting to take your place.  But at the same  time it's challenging.   
 

Q.  Looking at '95, if there was one change in  men's tennis that you would like to see changed, what  would it be?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: You're talking about what?   
 

Q.  Men's tennis.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Rules or --   
 

Q.  Rules or any aspect of the play you'd like to  see changed.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: No.  What I would like to see  is to get the players more involved in off-the-court  activities, trying to bring the kids back to watch the  tennis matches and --   
 

Q.  In what way?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Maybe the players taking some  of their time at the tournament at the beginning of the  week, maybe spend some time with some kids and bring a  lot of kids around for the tennis because those are the  ones that are going to come and watch maybe in the  future.  And that's one of the changes which is going  to be very important.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: There's a lot of money in  tennis.  There's a lot of money in a lot of other  sports as well.  What has surprised me is prize money  kept going up year after year after year, but I think  we've reached a stage of tennis where some of the  interest has begun to fade a little bit.  And, you  know, if we can keep the money that it is today, I  think we can consider ourselves quite lucky.   
 

Q.  What about no doping at the Open?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well -- in the U.S. Open you  mean?  Talking about the U.S. Open?   
 

Q.  Yeah.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: I mean, you can't have it  every week but maybe that's one of the weeks where you  should have one because that's maybe one of the very  important tournaments of the year.  So I'm all for that.  You have to understand, we can be asking too  much for us to have dopings held every week.  That  would be a little bit too much.  I mean, on average I  think players get tested three, four or five times a  year, which perhaps is not enough.  But we do get  tested, so that has progressed in the last couple of  years.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: This year?   
 

Q.  Yeah.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Winning tournaments is always  great, I think.  Whether it's a small one or a big one,  I think those moments are the ones that you want to be  -- or you want to keep playing for.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: The worst?  The worse was  probably losing to Henrik at the French Open.  That was  absolutely the worst by far.   
 

Q.  Do you think there is still some chance of  play in the future?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: I can still play well on the  claycourt, and I can still have a good week on the  clay.  It's more difficult to have two good weeks on  the clay, and that's what you need in order to win the  French Open.  I know it's pretty difficult to reach my  goal now.   
 

Q.  You are still dreaming -- (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: You always have dreams, but  not all the dreams are going to come true.  But I would  be happy if I could win another Grand Slam.  You know,  I would be happy whichever it is.  That's a little bit  of a dream, and I think that's realistic.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: I don't know.  I think my best  chances today is in the Australian and perhaps at the  Open.   
 

Q.  We've been talking about clay.  What do you  think about the performance of the Spanish this year?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: The Spanish have been  dominating the clay for most of the season, and they  have now so young players coming forward on the clay.  But I think you should start building some other surfaces now in spring because all you can find is  clay.   
 

Q.  Stefan, if you'd like to change one rule in  1995, which one would you change?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: You're talking about rules and  changes in tennis?   
 

Q.  Yeah, tennis.  The ranking system or -- I  don't know balls, surface, whatever.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: No.  I said it before, I don't  want to repeat.  I think the important thing is to try  to get young people to come and watch tennis.  Tennis  players should take a little bit of their time in  tournaments to maybe have some clinic for some of the  young players and get a lot of kids; maybe to get them  free tickets and let them come to the tennis and watch  and; maybe, you know, have a hit with me or Sampras.  That's one way of, you know, changing something.   
 

Q.  But about rules?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: I know there's been some  changes.  There's been some changes this year, and I  don't know what to change next year.   
 

Q.  Stefan, going back in what you just said, do  you think that's realistic?  Who's going to get the  players to -- (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I think we in tennis  need to do something because we have a little bit of an  image problem with the tennis.  And I think we need to  give something back and change a few things.  You know,  we all can agree that you can take a couple of times a  year each top player to do something.  You know, it's  like having a clinic with 15, 20, 30 kids, you know,  spend an hour on a Monday, Tuesday, something like  that.  That would be something positive, I think.   
 

Q.  Would you be a leader of something like  this.  I know you were involved with a charity earlier  on and --  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah.  I mean, I think we're  going to see things like that happening soon.  I mean,  at least it's under discussion, and things like that --  I think it's going to be very important because it's  the young players, young people you want to get into  tennis, because if they -- you know, if they're going  to have a good time when they're young, there's a good  chance to come back when they're 20, 25 and maybe bring  their kids back to come and watch tennis.  It's  something helpful.   
 

Q.  (inaudible)?  
 
My standards over the past ten years  obviously haven't been great.  But I did qualify there  once which is possible.  I have a chance to win here.  So, you know, you have to play some tough courts too  sometimes and it happened to me.   
 

Q.  (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: He's got a very, very tough  serve, and that makes it really difficult because, you  know, he's always returning quite well.  Not all the  time, but, you know, all he needs to do is serve well  for a set and break you once and you're in trouble.   
 

Q.  Your career next year, is it going to be the  end?.  Are those guys too fast for you?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, the most important thing  for me is keeping myself motivated, keeping myself in  shape.  And if I can do that, I can play with the guys  still and probably for next year and possibly the next  year.   
 

Q.  You enjoy it?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, I still enjoy playing.   
 

Q.  What is the goal for you?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I still would like to  win another Grand Slam tournament if that's possible,  and I still love competing and winning.  Whether it's  Wimbledon or Stockholm or some other smaller  tournament, it's still a great feeling.   
 

Q.  But you don't like to speak with the  journalists very often?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: I don't really mind too much.  I've always been really low key.  I think you have to  speak to journalists, of course.  Not too much, not too  little.  You try to keep them happy.   
 

Q.  What did you think about the tennis and the  whole thing around the tennis today and --  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, there's a lot more  activities around tennis today because people are  demanding more for the ticket prices.  There is  sometimes less that want to go and watch tennis for an  hour or two hours.  They want to be able to maybe  purchase some sponsor time, going to a fan festival,  get some other value for their tickets.  So it's  changing a little bit.   
 

Q.  Do you think that a lot of money is not good  for tennis?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I think a lot of money  creates a lot of interest and creates a lot of  competition, so I do think a lot of money is always  good for the sport.   
 

Q.  What is your opinion about -- (Inaudible.)  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: If you look at them, obviously  my group is the tougher group and everybody has to  agree on that.  You've got the servers and volleyers in  my group and you've got more of the baseliners in the  other group.  So there's a difference.   
 

Q.  What was the best tournament this year for  you?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I think I played some of  my best tennis in the beginning of the year; one in  Doha, one in Stuttgart and in the summertime, that was  the best part of the year for me.   
 

Q.  And the Davis Cup?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG: And the Davis Cup is not over  yet, but I had some help from my teammates as well.  But that would be a nice end of the year if we could  win in Davis Cup.   
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT