VOLVO MONTE-CARLO OPEN
April 19, 1994
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Do you feel that was a match - maybe it was little bit more trouble than it should have been?
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  I don't know.  It is always hard when you play first match.  I was happy that I won the match. It wasn't really a great match.  Neither of us really played that well, so it is just nice to get the first match over with; especially with the wet weather that we have had so far, so it is good to get into the tournament. 
 

Q.  Did you know much more about him than we did, Stefan?
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  No.  Unfortunately not.  I played 2 matches in Nice where I played against guys I have never seen play.  This is the third guy here in two weeks, I haven't seen him play before, so it is always a little bit awkward going out not knowing how the guy plays. But that is the way it goes.  It is always like that on the clay court season. 
 

Q.  The paper airplanes were becoming a bit of disturbance at one stage?
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, but it is nice; something happened, but that didn't bother me too much.  I had some fun, so it is okay. 
 

Q.  The wind was in the wrong direction when you tried to throw it back?
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, it was.  It was a bad throw.  It just went down. 
 

Q.  Basically, how do you think you are playing at the moment?
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  I am not quite sure.  I haven't really felt that great in the past two weeks.  I have played okay in Nice; nothing special, and this week I need -- I need some more matches, I think, and I just keep working and sooner or later I find some form, but at least I got to play three matches last week, and so we just take it week-by-week here. 
 

Q.  Probably got the pronunciation wrong, but how strong is Berasategui on clay?
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Last week he was very good, and the conditions were good for him last week with slow balls, slow court, but he is a very, very good clay court player, and he can do some damage this clay court season if he plays the way he played in Nice; where it is very hard to get hold of him because he runs around his forehand all the time, and he hits it really well. Yeah, he plays a little bit funny with the grip he has, but he is very quick around the court which makes him very good, and when I played him here he made very, very few mistakes, so he was good last week, but see how he is this week. 
 

Q.  In Nice you won four games in a row.  You were attacking his backhand, deep approaches to his backhand.  Did that grip seem to work against him a bit then; didn't it?
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, the match in Nice - from my point of view - I didn't think I played that well.  I wasn't serving very well, and actually sometimes better to attack his forehand which I did a little bit more in the second set, but he is -- if you are going to beat him, you need to really attack him because he is very hard to beat from the back of the court. 
 

Q.  I was meaning because of that strange grip.
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, but he passes better from when he runs around his forehand than he does when he has to play  normal forehand, I think, but he is confident at the moment.  He should be. 
 

Q.  What round should you be satisfied to get, just winning or also semifinal?
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  The way I look at it, if you get to the semifinal of a tournament, you had a good tournament. If you get to the final, even better.  And if you win, that is the thing.  But that is the way I look at it. If you come to the semifinal, I think you have had an okay tournament.  That has always been my philosophy 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT