COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 11, 1993
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Is that a combination of disappointment,  frustration and possibly disbelief at some of the  winners that went against you?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  I mean, it was a tough match to lose after  playing so well in the first two sets.  And I served as  well as I have done for a long, long, long period of  time, but then I lost the rhythm on my serve, and once  I lost the rhythm, I started to try harder and harder  and the worse it got.  I went losing the timing on the  serve, then losing timing on the volleys.  Plus Michael  started playing really, really well.  He found the time  and did everything right, and it is very, very tough,  especially when you play on a quick court too; there is  not a lot you can do.  He served really, really well in  the last three sets, so you don't get many chances.   
 

Q.  Will you say that these two first sets were  the two best you played this year?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Probably some of the best tennis that I have played for some time.  I played good tennis in the last  month and a half now, which is a good sign, but the  thing that I was happy with was the way I served.  I  haven't served this well all year, I think -- and when  I serve like that, suddenly tennis becomes very easy to  play, because so much pressure that it takes off and it  gives you more time to volley and everything.  So I  really enjoyed playing the first two sets.  But then,  like I said, then I started to miss a few at the end.  I couldn't hit a first.  It was just hopeless.  It was  frustrating.   
 

Q.  Do you know what you have to do in order to  improve your serve?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, I just have to get the consistency.  Like it is not going to come in one week's time.  It is  going to take some period of time, and now I got a  chance to really work on the serve for a couple of  weeks.  I am sure by the time Australia comes, it is  going to be even better, if everything goes the way it  has been going, and I just need to play matches.  At  least, it gave me some belief today the way I played in  the first two sets, so I think things will be better in  Australia, and I just need to be physically a little  bit stronger, too, and I think that will help, too.   
 

Q.  Where are you going to be spending Christmas?      
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  I will be in Sweden.   
 

Q.  The first time you went so far in this  tournament, did you ever think about the money on the  court during this week or not at all?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Of course, it is in your mind.  I mean, it is  -- I can't say that I don't think about it.  I don't  think about it that much, because I always am of the  opinion the more matches you win, the more money you  are going to make, so it is an easy equation, but it is  obviously very, very big here.  But to me, at this  stage of my career, obviously winning -- taking me to  the final, and perhaps winning here, would have meant  more to me.   
 

Q.  Do you think you let him back in today or was  it that he forced himself back in?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Both a little bit.  I think, obviously, third  set, that is where things started to change.  He picked  up the pace.  He started to serve a lot better.  Plus,  I started to miss a little bit too many first serves.  And that was the crucial turning point.  From then on,  I really didn't have too much of a chance.  So you can  say it was both.  I let him in the match a little bit;  but, at the same time, he started serving huge.  I  mean, he really served well the last three sets, and  then it was really hard.       
 

Q.  Thinking about next year, how many players do  you see as real contenders for Grand Slam players, and  how many chances do you give to Boris Becker and Andre  Agassi to come back in that group?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, I mean, looking at it now, Michael has  a good chance of doing well at the Australian Open, if  he can keep his fitness.  And same thing with Sampras.  Then you have a little bit doubt, I think, with Courier  who hasn't really produced that good tennis.  So, for  him, it is going to be a tough start of the year, where  he has most of his points coming up the first half  year.  It is going to be a real test for him, as well  as for Becker and Agassi.  They are not going to find  it easy because it is tough when you haven't played  that many matches.  Boris obviously isn't physically as fit as he  needs to be, and Agassi, you never know.  I mean, I  have no idea what he is up to now, I have no idea.  That is not going to be easy for him as well.  It all  depends what happens in the first few rounds, but it is  going to be interesting.  For me it is going to be  interesting too because if I can keep playing the  tennis that I played the last month and a half, I think  things could be good for me in Australia.  I just need  to be a little bit fitter and I think playing out of doors is going to help me too - playing in the sun,  playing in the heat, and you have little distractions  like wind and sun, which I quite like.  Indoors if you  play against somebody who is serving really well, it is  very, very difficult.   
 

Q.  Question related to this event because there  was talk about so-called initiative with players for  this tournament to give ATP points next year.  Do you  know about this initiative and would you say it is  desirable not because there might even be increased  pressure on the players?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  I do not know about it.  I haven't heard  about it and I think -- I don't know, I think it is  sometimes nice to come and play a tournament where you  have a little less pressure.  Certainly there is no  points here but you have the attraction of the money.  You are always going to try to perform well here  whatever happens.  For me, it would be nice just if it  is as it is now, I think.   
 

Q.  Question related to your advertising to the  films you made.  Are we going to see such a funny  Stefan Edberg next year and why did you do it for  Adidas?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Well you always have obligations.  They came  up with something different.  Maybe it is not me, but they wanted to create a little bit of interest.  It has  been and it was-- afterwards it was fun doing them.  It  took a long time but it came out much better than I  thought and what I -- there probably won't be anything  this year, not what I know about right now.  We will  have to wait and see.   
 

Q.  Looking at the matches we saw this week,  would you say that the winner normally is the one who  has the better return on this surface -- better  service, the person who serves better?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  On a quick carpet like this, obviously the  serve is very, very important.  Obviously the return is  really important too.  That is the two keys when you  play on a quick court because the rallies aren't very  long.  It is the serve and the return.  It is a  combination.  It is not enough just to serve well.   
 

Q.  Thank you.      

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT