COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 9, 1993
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Could you say a few words on how you felt  about your match today.  

STEFAN EDBERG:  I felt good about the match.  First set, I  thought I had the first set, and maybe I should have  won the first set, but somehow he managed to win the  first set.  But after that, it was a one-way track, so  I started to feel the ball a lot better.  Started doing  the right thing.  I think he lost the timing on all his  shots, and I could take advantage of that.  


Q.  How confident do you feel about facing  Michael Stich tomorrow?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, we played quite a few times this fall  and, we have -- he has won most of the time.  I didn't  beat him the last time in Paris.  I feel pretty good  going into Saturday's match against Michael.  I believe  if I play the same way I have played today and I have  done in the last couple of weeks, I have got a good  chance against him.  At the same time, Michael is  playing some great tennis at the moment, so for me it  is quite exciting.  


Q.  Stefan, what would be your program from here  in relation to the Australian Open?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  I am going to spend, after here, two weeks in  Sweden.  I will spend Christmas there.  And I will go  to Qatar probably nearly a week early before the  tournament starts in order to try to get some sunshine  and try to prepare for Qatar, and that, of course, is  one of the tournaments which is preparing me for the  Australian Open, and I am playing in the Rio Challenge  as usual, so I am starting -- maybe I have a few days  off after here, and then I start working for the  Australian Open.  


Q.  You said the other day that you would need to  improve five to ten percent next year.  Is there any  specific area?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, I think if I can get my serve going a  little bit better, I think that would solve the  problem, because the serve has always been the key in  my game.  If I serve well, I play well.  If I don't  serve that well, I am not playing that well.  So that  is really the key factor.  


Q.  How do you, in effect, correct that service,  actually; is it something technical or can someone look  at it --  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, it is to find the rhythm, find my  confidence on the serve.  And, actually, playing the  matches here this week will help tremendously.  And  that is just a matter of working, spending more time  with the serve in order to get more consistency into  the serve.  I am serving well, quite well, at the  moment, but it still can be just a little bit better,  and I think if I can crack that problem, I will be  okay.  


Q.  Since you played Michael last year at the  Compaq Grand Slam Cup, could you describe what you  think about his play and about the way he plays right  now.  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, I think Michael last year had a tough  year after winning Wimbledon - was it -- '91; he wasn't  playing that well last year.  And I think the change  came here last year, at this time, and -- where he beat  me in the first round where I had him 4-1 and a break,  and he won the tournament here.  He went on to play in  Australia, and that probably was a confidence-booster,  what he needed, and I think he probably worked a little  bit harder this year and put in more time on the  court.  He has always been a great talent, and he has  really shown some great tennis in the past weeks here,  and he deserves the success that he has had this year.  Hopefully he can play a little bit better in the Grand  Slams next year.  That is where he needs to improve.  


Q.  How do you feel physically?  Do you feel a  tiring season or what about there tournament, is it an  opportunity for you to show how you can play or do you  feel tired after the season?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  I don't feel too tired this year because  basically I haven't played that much tennis this fall.  Since the U.S. Open I have had a few more weeks than I  normally would do.  Normally by this time I am really  tired.  This year, it is very different, where I am  feeling quite fresh actually and this is a great  opportunity for me to get back on track.  I am playing  good tennis again.  So it is very different this year  and I can leave 1993 behind me and look forward for  next year.  


Q.  Thank you.   

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT