COMPAQ GRAND SLAM CUP
December 7, 1993
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  When did you arrive here?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  I came here Sunday morning, so I have been  here for a couple of days, which I think is helpful;  you get used to the conditions.  


Q.  How do you see this tournament, is it like a  holiday, or like a test or practicing?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  I mean looking at myself, it is the last  tournament for me for the year.  For me it is a good  opportunity this year to play matches here because I  feel I need it.  I needed to play here this year.  It  is a little bit more relaxed here, obviously, because  there is no points you are fighting for or defending,  so it is actually - it is sort of nice to come here and  play because I don't feel too much pressure, and this  year is the first time I won a match here, so it makes  me feel good, and I quite like it.  


Q.  Has your life changed since you have been a  father; makes your life more difficult or is it easier  or--  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Once you have a baby you have a lot of  responsibility.  It does change for everybody.  It is a  good change for me because I wanted to start a family,  so it is something new for me; something which makes me  happy, and hopefully in the long run it is going to  have a good effect object my tennis, too.  I feel it is  the right time.  


Q.  Stefan, by your standards the year hasn't  been as good as previous years.  Would you say, one,  the baby may have been a distraction; two, was it your  play; or, three, is it just everybody else has moved up  a step?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, it is hard to tell why this year hasn't  been great, because it hasn't -- because you sort of  compare with the last couple of years, which has been  nearly perfect for me.  I think it comes a time where  you are going to run into a little bit of trouble, and  that has happened this year, and I have been playing  some good tennis, but I haven't played well enough to  win enough tournaments.  I have only won one tournament  this year, which is an all time low.  But I am still  No. 5 in the world.  It is the 9th consecutive year I  am in the top, so that was a goal when I started, and  it is a goal for next year.  I just hope that I will  improve a little bit.  I just need to play five, ten  percent better; then I really can start competing at  the top again.  Maybe next year will be a bit more  relaxed for myself.  Because I am coming back after  having had - what I considered - not a good year.  Maybe some of the pressure will be-- will not be there  next year.  I am still quite hopeful for next year.  It  is not the end of the world that I have had a bad  year.  That is going to happen to anybody.  So that is  going to motivate me for next year.  


Q.  Has the baby been any sort of distraction?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  It is hard to tell because I really didn't  play well up 'till I had the baby, and actually I  played some of the best tennis now in the last couple  of months here than I have done all year, so I am  feeling I am on the right track again.  I played well  in Paris.  I didn't win it, but I did play very well in  ATP Finals, too, but there is just a few points here  and there missing where I need a little bit of luck, I  need to have things start running for me, and I just  need to turn the corner a little bit and I will be back  playing well again.  Do you need to translate all  that?  


Q.  Has your attitude and preparation for this  event been different to the last-- well, the two times  you played before?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, I think it is a little bit different  this year because I haven't played as much tennis the  last couple of months than I have done in the past  where I have really been exhausted coming here.  This  year is a little bit different where I feel I need to  play this tournament because it is going to be good for  the start of next year and obviously I took some time  off after the ATP Finals because I needed to, because  you can't keep going every week.  I took a week off  completely, didn't hardly do anything, in terms of you  know, jogging or anything.  But I have been hitting the  last week and trying to focus on doing well here.  So I  am coming in here pretty relaxed and I still believe  that I am hitting the ball pretty well, so I am quite  hopeful.  


Q.  Stefan, your new line of clothing, how much  input did you have in it?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Oh, all of it.  All of it.  They have tried  to come up with something which is different from  everything else, which it is, and I like it, some  people like it.  Some people don't.  But I feel good in  it.  


Q.  Anymore questions?  Thank you.  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT