ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 19, 1993
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Stefan, how would you compare this one to the  one you played in Bercy?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, little bit similar.  It was pretty much  the same way, and he came out a winner today again.  Maybe I did play a little bit better in Paris, but it  was very, very close.  I mean, I did play very well  today, the times that I had a chance to play.   
 

Q.  Stefan, when did you make of the last time  nine doublefaults?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  I have done that quite a few times this  year.  So it wasn't long ago.  I made 13 against Korda  two weeks ago.   
 

Q.  The reason for today?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, I have had a few problems with my serve  all year.  It is not a big problem.  I am actually  serving -- I am not serving great, but I am serving  pretty good at the moment.  I am just trying to hit it  a little bit harder, especially on the second serve,  and some days I have to take it, a few doublefaults.  But it just came at the few bad times during the match,  I felt.   
 

Q.  How do you see the next season?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Next season is going to be interesting for my  point of view.  This year has been disappointing, and  next year is going to be a little bit of a challenge  for me; see if I can get back on track.  At least I am  back on track playing good tennis.  The last couple of  weeks, I played pretty well, I think, and probably  played some of the best tennis this year.  Okay, I am  not winning the close matches, but I am just feeling I  am that far from cracking it, and if I can get just a  little bit better, you could see a different Stefan  Edberg next year, hopefully.   
 

Q.  Is there some specific work you can do on  your serve that could fix this problem?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, I mean, if I can lift myself another  five, ten percent; get maybe a little bit fitter than I  am now; I just need to get my serving going just ten  percent better will make all the difference.  I just  miss too many first serves, especially at the crucial  points.  That can all change if I just keep working.  It is actually not too bad.  I am really happy the way  I am playing tennis and it is fun going out there to  play and that is really important.   
 

Q.  In the first set after he broke you, you made  nine points in a row.  What did you think?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Great.  I have no recollection about that.  I  played well at patches, the times he gave me a chance  to play.  It wasn't very often, though.   
 

Q.  Your first volley seemed to let you down once  or twice.  Is that because he was returning pretty well  or is it that you were not consistent as you could be?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  It is pretty difficult.  I made four volleys  today -- it wasn't many.  He hits the ball as hard as  he can.  He gets you off.  Sometimes it is difficult to  volley, it is simple as that, because he hits it very  close over the net too.   
 

Q.  Stefan, your family circumstances, has that  had anything to do with your practicing?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  It is helping me.   
 

Q.  But do you have a clear conception of why you  think the year went a little bit wrong for you?  Right  now, do you know?  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  It is hard to tell exactly.  I think just  looking at things, if you look at my career, I have  been going, you know, this way, I mean, becoming a  better and better tennis player and I peaked in 90, 91,  92.  You can't peak forever.  Sooner or later you are  going to have a little bit of a let-down.  It is going  to happen to anybody - doesn't matter what your name  is.  I was hoping that I could have another great year  this year, but I didn't.  Maybe I could have kept it up  there, No. 1, 2 in the world another year.  So I think  it is just the nature, because you got other young guys  coming up to and, like I said, I am taking this year as  a little bit of an off year and aiming for next year,  because if I can play the tennis I have done the last  couple of weeks, I am going to have a great chance;  just if I can return their serves indoors when they are  serving 200 miles an hour, it is going to be a lot  easier when we play out of doors.   
 

Q.  Thank you.  
 
STEFAN EDBERG:  Have a good holiday, all of you.      
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT