ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 18, 1993
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Stefan, it is a bit hard to lose a match like  that in which you contributed so much to the quality of  it and seemed to be playing very well for much of the  time?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, I think I am a little bit sad.  I did  play pretty well today.  I think Pete played  unbelievable in the first set.  The quality of the  tennis was just really, really good.  Even in the  second set, you know, after I broke him back, I started  to play really well, and I had a few chances; had him  Love-40 and, you know, it didn't really run for me when  I needed it.  So I mean, that is one just one of these  matches.  It was pretty close though.  


Q.  Confident; you could beat him if you met him  in the final?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  I believe so.  I beat him twice this year.  It was a very close match.  If I would have got the  second set, things could have turned around a little  bit.  I actually started to play really well from the  beginning of the second set.  I just was a little bit  unlucky in the beginning of the tiebreaker.  I played a  really good third point.  He just got the ball back and  hit the let cord and next thing I hit a doublefault.  That gave him a little bit of an advantage in the  tiebreaker.  That made a difference.  


Q.  Before this match, did you feel that you had  more chances against him than against Goran?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  I mean, I only take one match at a time.  I  felt I am playing well enough to beat him at the  moment.  And I have played well the first match, so I  really thought if I just could concentrate and do my  thing, I had a good chance, but, you know, he played a  little-- just a little bit better when it mattered  today.  


Q.  ATP will give its annual review to us  tomorrow.  Are you happy with the way the Tour is  running; anything that you think could be improved on?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, you can always find things that you can  improve on.  I mean, I won't spend a whole evening here  telling you what could be changed, but there are a few  things that could be changed and there are a few  changes on the way.  There is always room for  improvement.  


Q.  Anything specific?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  I don't want to mention too much before you  get the review.  If you ask me tomorrow, maybe I will  give you an answer.  


Q.  Thank you.     

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT