U.S. OPEN
September 3, 1996
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Stefan, your first quarterfinals since Australia '94. Can you tell us how that feels
and what it means?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: It feels good. I saw my chance here this week since beating Krajicek.
The draw has opened up a little bit. But you still have to win your matches. I had to
fight really hard to win the match today. You know, some of the pressure comes off. I'm
playing Goran here. I'm feeling pretty good. 
 
Q. You occasionally practiced with him, I guess, over the years a few times. How often?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, I play with a lot of English guys. Practicing most of the time at
Queen's Club in London. I've been practicing quite a bit with him when he's been at home. 
 
Q. Did that have an effect, do you think, today?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: I don't know. I know how he plays. He's improved so much since we
practiced last time. Had a good summer, had a great Wimbledon. He's so much more confident
now than what he was before. He's really developed since last time. 
 
Q. How do you rate your performance today against the first three rounds?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: Today wasn't easy. I think what happened, I was in control of the
beginning of the match. I could have got up 4-1. Somehow, you know, I lost the first set.
I shouldn't have really lost that one because I made quite a few big mistakes at 5-4
serving. That sort of gave him the chance. He got more confident. He started playing
better. I had a little trouble with the timing today at times. But I think winning the
second tiebreaker got me back to square again. After that, third and fourth sets was
pretty good, I thought. I'm happy that I came through, but I did have to work hard today,
because it wasn't all happening for me. 
 
Q. Have you started to let yourself think a little bit about winning the whole thing?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: No. It's too far away, it really is. I've got a tough match coming up.
Now is when the really tough matches start coming around, quarterfinals, semifinals,
finals. That's the time you need to raise your game, be out there, be hungry. I mean, the
thing is I feel good about my game. I feel I have a chance in my next match. That's all I
need. 
 
Q. Are you hungry?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: I'm pretty hungry, yes. It's fun playing. Like today was hard work,
though. But, you know, I got my way through. Hopefully I'll be feeling a little bit better
next round, I will serve a little bit better, which I think will be really important
against Goran. 
 
Q. Which specific part of your game besides your serve are you going to be working on
against Goran?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: It's not an easy opponent the way he plays. Obviously if I can play
steady, that's going to be a big help. Always with Goran is getting his serve back, that's
really the key. If you can get his first serve back and get his second serve back in play,
then you have a chance of beating him. If you don't get enough serves back, then it's
really difficult. That's really been the case in all the times when we played each other. 
 
Q. Stefan, there was a point in the second set tiebreaker where there was an exchange
of lobs, you ran down a lob. Could you talk a little about that.
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: Well, that's what it takes to win tennis matches. That was one of the
great points of the match. It's so important that, you know, you have these points where
you sort of lift your game, you come out as a winner. That's really what tennis is all
about, you know, getting those shots which were impossible and hitting these winners when
you don't expect them and when you need them. Those are important. 
 
Q. The farther you go in this tournament, anywhere in your mind are you second guessing
your decision to retire at all?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: No. Here it comes again. 
 (Laughter) You can keep trying, but it won't go anywhere. 
 
Q. What if you win this, Stefan? What if you win the whole thing? Don't you come here
to defend?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: Maybe I come back and watch next year. 
 
Q. Can you say that no matter what happens from here, that this has been a pretty nice
way to spend your last US Open?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: I think it is. It's the way you want to finish. You want to finish
strong, you want to finish playing good tennis. I sort of see the light at the end of the
tunnel. I know I've got so much time to push myself. I'm ready to push myself. I'm sort of
looking forward to play, but I know that I can't go on for years, just pushing your body
and pushing yourself to the limits, because sometimes it's going to be enough. I think the
good end of this year will be sort of nice. 
 
Q. You beat Ivanisevic a couple times, like in Rome this year. That can help?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: Well, hopefully. Looking at the match when we played in Rome, I was
playing good. He wasn't really in form. I beat him at Queen's Club. He started off the
season so well, played some extremely good tennis. Maybe he wasn't playing his best
tennis, but still takes a lot to beat him. Now I think is a different story. He's in much
better shape, he's playing better. It's going to be tougher tomorrow, but it's nothing
that's impossible. It always helps to go out against a guy that you know you've beaten the
last couple of times. 
 
Q. A couple nights ago you talked about with Jimmy Connors a few years ago, it took
someone really special. But people who play you say the crowd is lifting you. To some
degree are you seeing the crowd embrace you, maybe not like that, but close?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: If you look, if you look at today, the crowd was definitely behind me
once again. It does help, especially. But at the same time you need to play some good
tennis so you can get the crowd behind you, because otherwise you're not. You need to sort
of be in the match. Then it is a factor, then it does help. 
 
Q. Do you feel them worrying about you? I mean, every time you lose a point out there,
there's an "Uhhhh". They're dying for you. Is it worrisome that they don't trust
you?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: I'm not sure. You can't win all the points in tennis. As long as you win
the last one, that's what counts. 
 
Q. Stefan, you've always said that you'd like Stockholm to be your last tournament. It
seems almost certainly you've qualified for the Grand Slam Cup. Might this be a way to
postpone your retirement for a couple weeks?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: That's a good question. I'll be playing towards the end of the year.
Stockholm will be the last tournament on the ATP Tour. Grand Slam Cup, I've never really
thought about. Another option would be Davis Cup finals. I keep those weeks open. I may
show up there, who knows. 
 
Q. It took you a long time to adjust playing here, then you won. Was it just winning
here that's helped you get more acclimated? What makes this so different from the other
Grand Slams?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: Definitely winning here really turned things around. Because I had some
good years in '86, '87. Apart from that, I didn't play well here. I don't know the reason,
because the surface fits my game. Winning makes a big difference, different approach to
everything. I feel good about coming here. It can be a great atmosphere out there, because
people, they can get wild, especially in the evenings. I think it will be a great match to
watch tonight, for instance. People are going to probably be behind Pete, though. 
 
Q. Then didn't you say something, was it that you didn't live in New York anymore?
Didn't you do something to switch it? Was it when you moved to Long Island?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: Yeah, I think that really made a difference. A lot of the times I was
staying in the city, which sometimes is tough. I rented some house out on Long Island and
changed the strategy a little bit, ate at home quite a bit. It's a lot sort of calmer out
on the island. That made a big difference, I think. I'm back in the city now, and it's not
bad there either. 
 
Q. When is the last time you got hit in the head with a ball?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: I don't know. I think I've never been hit so hard. It was a clean header
that I hit, so (laughter). I have a little bump up here. That's something you have to
take.  
 
Q. Tim Henman is just beginning his career, but you had to play really hard tennis to
pull this out today to come from behind to win. Does this go back with you as something
special, one that you remember, because it gets to you this quarterfinal, or is it just
another?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: No, this is a special year. It is my last Grand Slam. It's great that I
can perform and win these matches, because it's not easy playing best of five sets. It's
hot and humid a lot of the times. You need to be physically pretty strong and mentally
strong to come through these matches. So, you know, I feel good about that. 
 
Q. It's probably the first time in a Grand Slam at least five matches in a row on
center court.
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: I think it is. I hope they keep me there. It definitely helped, like I
said before. It's a great court. It's the best one to be on. There's lots of room to play.
You can play from the back of the court, play my game. It really is a good court. 
 
Q. Do you think this story line of your retirement plays in the head of opponents or do
you believe they can just focus on the court?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: I don't know what the other guys think when they come up against me
playing. I haven't got a clue.  
 
Q. Would you expect that Ivanisevic could just block that out?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: I think, you know, looking at him this week, he's kept himself very,
very calm. I think that's really going to be key for him in the next match, too. Usually
when he plays his best tennis. 
 
Q. Stefan, you mentioned you've hit with Tim and he's improved a lot this summer. How
do you assess his potential?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: He definitely has potential because the way he hits the ball, hits it
really clean, he's moving well around the court. I think physically he can improve a
little bit. I think experience is going to play. I think he's really lifted his game over
the last couple of months. I think Wimbledon was huge for him, confidence-wise. He just
has to build on what he has achieved so far and set up his goals and work a lot. He's
going to move up the rankings, no question about it. How far he can get, it's always hard
to predict. 
 
Q. Ten aces, two double-faults was a good score, I think.
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: For me? 
 
Q. Yes.
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: It's great. No foot faults (laughter).  
 
Q. You say because you can't play in the Top 10 or win Grand Slams anymore, you're not
interested. If you do well here, obviously you can play in the Top 10. It's not a question
of whether you can or can't; is it that you don't have the dedication to do it anymore?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: I've been going over this question so many times, why, what, how. Like I
said, I make a decision, I stick to it. You can't go on forever. I think in order to play
top tennis, you need a lot of dedication. You need a lot of hard work. You can do it for
so long. I feel if I would continue to play next year, it's a good chance that I might be
back in the Top 10. I don't have any points in the beginning of the year. Still what I'm
looking for is winning the big tournaments. Next year it's going to be even harder to win
a Grand Slam. If you look at history, not many guys over 30 are going to win Grand Slams
today. That's just a fact. 
 
Q. How much of that has to do with being serve and volley? Would you imagine if your
game were different, you may have gone on longer?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: No. I think I've stuck to what I do best, and that's really what you
need to do. If I play my game, if I move well on the court, it's still going to take me a
long way out there.  
 
Q. I guess what I mean is, if you get older and lose half a step, does it hurt your
game more?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: Yes, it does hurt. If you're one step quicker, you have more time. It
does make a difference. That's really the key to everybody's game, is your moving ability,
which is still pretty good. The difference is recovering time. 
 
Q. Stefan, the other day when I was watching the Henman-Martin match, John McEnroe was
commentating that Henman's backhand looked identical to yours, talked about Henman looking
up to you as a player. How do you feel about young players looking up to you as a player?
 
 STEFAN EDBERG: Well, I think it may look like my backhand, but he plays a lot more like
Sampras does, a lot more like that. He has a good forehand, likes to run around it. He's
what I call a Mini Sampras, but he's one level below as of now. 
 
End of FastScripts...            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT