ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 1993
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Stefan, after that first set, did you lose  your way a little bit for the start of the second?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Not a lot.  I think Sergi played a few good  points.  I missed maybe one or two shots.  That  sometimes is enough to lose your serve, and it was the  only bad part of the match.  But apart from that,  everything else was fine.  


Q.  Were you fighting with your volleys on the  second set, or he was the one who was passing you by?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  No, I think in the second set there was good  tennis.  He came out with some fantastic passing  shots.  I felt that I was moving very well up at the  net.  I made a lot of goods points; he made a lot of  good points.  I played my volleys as good as I normally  can.  


Q.  Is the court slower than he thought?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  It is not that slow.  It is sort of medium.  I think it is a very good court where you can stay back if you want to, but I think it is still a little bit of  an advantage if you can come into the net.  It gives  you a little bit more of an advantage, I feel.  


Q.  Would you say it is like a hard court or  faster than that?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  It is probably -- it is hard to compare,  carpet is a carpet.  Hardcourt is something else.  It  is medium.  I think it has a very good pace.  I don't  think an indoor court should be any quicker than it is  here.  


Q.  Remember how it played last year, though; was  it different than last year or the same?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Pretty much the same, I would say.  I think it is a nice court to play on.  I  really do.  I am not sure whether it is slower than  last year or not.  


Q.  They tried to slow it down a little bit, they  said.  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah.  It is really hard to judge.  It is not  quicker, that is the good thing.  


Q.  Which group is stronger, the Ashe or Smith?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, if you look on paper on current form  and obviously my group is tougher.  I think everybody  can agree on that.  But I don't care.  I got two tough  matches to play, and I feel if I played the same way as  I did today, I got a good chance against both of them.  


Q.  Is this court better for your game than the  one in Paris?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  It is pretty of the same.  There is not a big  difference between Paris and here.  I think in Paris  the court there is good too and the court is good here  too.  


Q.  When you play Goran, which you will, is there  anything you can take into that match from the last  time you played in Paris?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  I don't think I did anything wrong in Paris  at all.  I did -- I did the right things.  He just  served a little bit too big.  He just cracked his first  serves whenever he needed one, he hit one.  So I don't  think I'd do much different.  I just need to hit one or  two more balls back, that will make the difference.  


Q.  Stefan, you seemed quite emotional sometimes  at the second set today.  Do you feel --  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Did you think so?  


Q.  It is all relevant.  

STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, I think -- I wanted to win this one.  I  believed that it is always great if you can get a good  start, win your first match and this was a match that I  had to win.  So I felt good when I made some good  points and I think to win here, you got to get  excited.  You got to get into it and do what you can.  


Q.  Are you playing as well as you played at any  time of the year now?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  I am playing pretty well at the moment.  The  last couple of weeks has been really good.  I am pretty  happy with my current form.  I am probably playing as  well as I have done at any time of this year.  


Q.  By the end of the second set you were coming  in more down the middle.  Was that because you were  giving him too many angles?  

STEFAN EDBERG:  No, I think when you play Bruguera, he is --  you have to mix it up a little bit because if he starts  reading your game, he can pass it very, very well, and  I tried to mix it up and to make him not quite sure  what I am doing out there and hopefully I get two,  three points if I do that.  


Q.  Thank you. 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT