ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 1992
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Stefan, one of these days -- 

STEFAN EDBERG:  Just a matter he was too good today.  That is all, I can say.  He played very well.  Once he got on top, he did everything right, and it wasn't a lot of things I could do.  Because I didn't play well enough today.  Simple as that. 


Q.  Stefan, in the last game at 15-Love, you haven't seen Boris' serve out? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  In the last game? 


Q.  The last game. 

STEFAN EDBERG:  Do you think that would have mattered? 


Q.  After that you played two very good returns. 

STEFAN EDBERG:  No, I don't think that.  That call wouldn't have mattered at all. 


Q.  How well is he playing now?  As well as ever? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  He is playing as well as he can, I think so anyway.  And he is just peaked at this time of the year, where you know, he played very well in Bercy, and he is playing very well here, and he has got a very good chance of winning here, the way he is playing. 


Q.  The crowd as well? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  The crowd wasn't a factor at all.  I think they behaved very well.  Overall, as long as they keep quiet when you are playing that is all I am asking for; in between points, I didn't think it was a problem.  Obviously they wanted Boris to win.  It would have been the same thing if I played in Sweden.  So I think I did a good job. 


Q.  How did you feel about your serve today?  Becker seemed to be really teeing off, especially in the second set? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, I think -- I didn't serve well enough today.  I was okay until he got up a break and then I had a few chances at 5-4, and then after that I played a bad service game to lose my first service game in the second set which was important, and after that it was just one single track for him.  Once he gets into a rhythm, he just tees off on everything and everything went in. 


Q.  Stefan, I don't know the last time you lost 6-Love, but was this the worst beating you had this year, and is it possible that Becker is absolutely the best player going; period? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  Well, what can I say?  I have had worst losses this year.  It was just a matter of -- this is the end of the year, and I played my best tennis a couple of months ago, and I just ran out of steam.  It's as simple as that.  Okay, he beat me badly today, and that is going to happen if I am not playing up to standard and he is playing very well, that -- there you have the score. 


Q.  How do you feel about the No. 1, I guess now Jim has clinched that because -- 

STEFAN EDBERG:  Just many congratulations to him.  I think he deserves it.  He has won two Slams this year.  He has been the best player if you look back now -- I had my chance.  My chance came after winning the Open.  I played every tournament that I possibly could.  I had my big chance in Paris to actually jump ahead of him by 1 or 200 points and I blew it, because that is what I would have needed to put some pressure on him.  That is why I kept playing too much tennis in order to get the No. 1 spot, but my body just wouldn't last. 


Q.  With the conditions, do you think that Becker is the favorite for the win here? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  I would say so personally.  I said he would be a little bit the favorite going into this one, but he is -- it is tough for him because the pressure is on him a little bit now playing at home but if he just sticks to what he is doing right now he has got a very good chance, you know.  He has got Ivanisevic which is always going to be a danger and Pete Sampras, so he is going to have to battle it out, that is for sure. 


Q.  Stefan, do you think that the way Becker plays now, has something to do with his new coach? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  That I cannot answer, perhaps, the sign is good, so maybe. 


Q.  Do you know the way he plays? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  No, I don't.  No. 


Q.  Stefan, now that you will be No. 2 or 3 this year, how do you look back at the years when you were -- is it too quick to reflect a little bit? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  I think it is -- if you look back it has been a very, very good year.  There is no doubt about that, very good year.  There is no doubt about that.  I have had one of my best -- Open was something, almost the biggest thing for me, the way I won it, that is something I always can look back and be proud of, and if you end up being two or three, it is not so bad. 


Q.  What did you say to Tony Pickard after the first game of the match? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  I just needed my sports drink because I forgot it in the lockerroom.  It didn't help today. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT