ATP TOUR WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
November 17, 1992
Stefan Edberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Stefan, you had a very good start, everything went perfectly? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  Yeah, I played quite a good match.  I played very good first set, and the second set was pretty good too, and I messed it up a little bit again at 6-5 when I had the chance to serve for the match. But the important thing was that this time I came out of it as a winner, and it was very important. 


Q.  Stefan, does it worry you, the fact that you have difficult closing out matches these days? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  I think it goes in cycles.  It has happened two times here.  It won't happen that many more times.  That is for sure, but it has always been like that.  It was the same thing a couple of years ago, but it all changes, so it has just been a little bit of a problem lately.  Like I said, the good thing was I won today, so I am going to feel a lot better next time it happens. 


Q.  Where does that come from; why, Stefan? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  It is -- tennis is is a very mental game, as we all know.  Once it is comes to crunch time, sometimes it is not so easy to serve out the match.  That is what makes it interesting.  You can't be sure until you win the last point.  It can turn around very quickly in tennis, in another one or two points. 


Q.  When you didn't close the match at the 6-5 in the second, did you think about the Forget match or not at all? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  I did think about it.  I have to admit that, but I stayed very calm out there.  I thought it can happen, so I just took one point at a time after that, and it didn't worry me as much this time because I felt that I was playing pretty good out there. 


Q.  Stefan, this is the first match.  You jumped the net after you won, really very, very excited about winning.  Why so much? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  No, I think because the way I won it.  I played fairly well today, and I messed it up a little bit, I felt a little bit relieved when I won the first match.  It is very important to get off at a good start here, especially when you play the round robin, and, I really enjoyed playing out there.  That was important.  It was a nice one to win today. 


Q.  Is it because you are thinking about number one; is that why? 

STEFAN EDBERG:  Not really.  No.  Just for winning today, after I messed it up a little bit at 6-5, that gave me a lot of satisfaction today. And also it is -- this is a tough event to play, I want to be there to try to have a shot at it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT