ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 1, 2019
Imran Tahir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Immy, playing your 100th game for the Proteas and in the World Cup, how does that feel?
IMRAN TAHIR: First of all, good day to everyone.  It feels really special.  I think as special as I look back, I played my first game in 2011 World Cup and it's been an amazing journey.  I always dreamt that, but I never thought I will be here one day playing my 100th game for South Africa, so it's an absolute honor and privilege being given the opportunity from South Africa and the lovely people from South Africa.
So I'm just really grateful to everybody, and I hope that from myself, that I give everything, what I could for the country, and yeah.
Q. Before we move on to the next game, just a word on the last game, opening the bowling, that took everyone by surprise.  Did you anticipate that it was going to go that well, that soon?  Just a word on opening the bowling.
IMRAN TAHIR: Yeah, look, it was a plan which I had been working on from last, I think year or so, bowling internationally with a new ball, so I think we knew that it was going to be pretty much a shock for everybody.
But look, it was a good challenge, a great challenge, bowling against two top players in world cricket who's been in form.  I was just really pleased the way I came out and I got a wicket for the team and that was our plan which worked.  Yeah, we were really pleased as a team.
Yeah, I'm just -- whenever I get an opportunity again like that, you know, I won't be the guy who is saying, no to my captain, because I like challenges and I think it was one of them which I personally think I was really pleased, like I said, the way it came out.
Q. Just on that, if we can talk a bit more, is it a role you see yourself performing throughout the tournament?  Is that something you've spoken to Faf about, and can we see you opening the bowling again as the tournament goes on?
IMRAN TAHIR: I don't think I'm going to tell you that here, but (laughing) yeah, look, I am the kind of guy who likes challenges and I like to think that my captain can give me a ball in any situation and I will be the first guy to say yes.
So, look, I think that was the plan against a few -- obviously the team we played in the first game.  So not sure what's going to happen in the next one, but like I said, you know, I'm prepared.  I'm fully prepared, and I'm going to be ready to be given the ball in any situations.
Q. Just more generally speaking, how have you seen the role of the spin bowler change in the years you've been involved, from 2011 now and how do you think you've changed South Africa cricket?
IMRAN TAHIR: Look, I think it's been a great achievement, I think for the spinners, who I played with, from 2011 until now, Robin Peterson, Johan Botha, and in the youngsters we've got Keshav Maharaj, Shamsi, and Shaun von Berg, Dane Piedt.
So these guys come up in the scene after that, and look, it's very nice to see spinners coming through our system in South Africa, and I like to -- I like to see, obviously, myself, if that's a personal question to me, that I'm just really happy that -- maybe I never -- I always wanted to do well, but I never kind of guy who thought about his personal performance.
So I have always been an attacking spinner, but I think all these years I played for South Africa, I feel like my role was just to taking wickets, especially in the middle overs, but not giving runs, also.
It's been quite a tough job, but look, I'm really pleased the way I serve over the years to South Africa Cricket, and I'm just really pleased and really grateful to all my captains and my teammates.  I think without their help, I won't be where I am today.
Q. Bangladesh batting lineup, they are generally good players with spin bowling.  How do you see Bangladesh in general?
IMRAN TAHIR: Look, you answer your questions.  Everyone knows they obviously grew up in a condition where they play spins really well, and you know, they can be very dangerous on the day.
Look, as a spinner, myself and Shamsi, we are obviously fully prepared if we get selected.  So it's going to be a good challenge, just like any other game, but from our side, we are fully prepared and hopefully we will have a good day as a team.
Q. Over the years, South Africa always raised huge expectations in the World Cup and somehow could not realise its potential.  As one of the senior-most key players and one of the stars of the site, what are you doing in this World Cup to ensure that it does not get repeated?
IMRAN TAHIR: I think if you look at it, our performance over the last two World Cups, I think -- which I've been involved, I see myself as a very proud member of this team, and the culture.  Because for me, I think nothing can give you a guarantee that they are going to win the World Cup.  So I think that we are one of the team who never give you guarantee, but one thing we can promise; that whatever we've got, we are going to give it for this country and for this culture we are involved in.
That's the promise I can give you that, as well.  We are going to give everything.  So result not in our hands.  We have been working hard, and on a given day, I think any team can beat anyone, because cricket has changed.  But we are fully prepared and we are going to learn from our mistakes which we are going to make and which we did make, and we come back strongly in every game.
Q. After losing to England, do you think tomorrow adds some extra pressure to you or your team?
IMRAN TAHIR: Look, there is always a pressure if you play every game and especially when you are representing your country.  But I think how you take the pressure, you take the pressure positively or negatively, and we are very positive.  We have been beaten by the very good England team who has been dominating world cricket in a year or.
So it's just that they played very well on that day, and I still think we stick them to 310, which was a great effort from us.  We are going to learn from our mistakes.  Well, there will be a pressure, but we will look forward for the challenge and the pressure tomorrow.
Q. A bit unfair to ask one of the bowlers this, but I don't know if you've seen some of the disappointment coming out of South Africa about how the team batted the other day.  Has the team taken note that have and how do you think the batsman can fix their mistakes?
IMRAN TAHIR: Yeah, definitely, I think they did notice that and as a team, we did.  I think we rushed a bit because for us as a team, if you think about the last game, I think we were most of the time top of the game but we just didn't have wickets in our hands.  That was the learning thing we need to do when we go into the next game and I'm pretty sure the batsman is going to realise that and they are going to come back strongly.
Q. Hash took a tough blow on the helmet and looks like he still might have a concussion.  Is there a concern about his state within the dressing room, and obviously, a senior player potentially missing out, how are you going to cover that off?
IMRAN TAHIR: Yeah, look, obviously it's sad what happened, but that can happen in cricket.  I think he's getting recovered, what I know, and then if -- I'm not sure what the doctor advised him, but I've been talking to him and he's fine, and hopefully he'll be ready for the game, any game.
Q. You're playing on the same wicket you played two days ago.  Do you think you guys could go with two spinners?
IMRAN TAHIR: I always like to see two spinners going, obviously in England.  But obviously it could be a tough call.  I know even though it's the second game on the same pitch, if I'm not wrong, but look, it's obviously the selector and the captain have to decide what they like to see for the team balance.
But as a spinner, I like to see two spinners playing in the game.
Q. You spoke about this in a previous question, and you obviously said what a consummate team man you are, but have you reserved some time to think of your legacy, the impact, your 100th game and looking forward, but have you taken some time to look back on what this means?
IMRAN TAHIR: This means a lot to me, which I can never express in words.  So I'm the guy who come through a lot of hard patches, seen a lot of hardships and lost my parents without seeing me play international cricket.
Yeah, so there's a lot of things.  So these things are really special to me, for my family.  I just mentioned earlier in one of my interviews that I have not seen my brothers or sisters in the last two years, so this country that I'm representing and every game I'm playing for is really important to me, and I'm really proud.  I'm just really grateful to my family.  They understand that, you know, I'm away from them, but there is an important reason for that.
So yeah, look, obviously if I look back, I'm really proud of myself, I have to be honest, because like I said, you know, I dreamt that but I never thought I'm going to play with the legends like I have been some of them, and the youngsters, which I believe they are going to be legends for this South African team.
I'm really grateful for all I've got from South Africa and I hope that I'll pay that back somehow, and I'm really looking forward for this World Cup, and I will be very proud if I do well for my team.
Q. In the post match after the first game, Faf said it was important to put whatever happened to bed, and you've only had 48 hours.  Can you just chat to us about, you know, the team meetings, the conversations around how would you fix things ahead of the second match?
IMRAN TAHIR: Look, like I said, it's a competition where we have to play a lot of games, and we only played one game, so we just can't go and have like ten meetings and say blame to the batsman and blame to the bowlers; we did that and you did that.  We are the kind of team which we believe in each other and we enjoy each other's success.
So we look back and we realise what mistakes we did, and then we are really looking forward not to do that in the next games which we are going to play and I think that's what the team talk is all about.
Like I said, you know, we just lost to one of the best teams in the world on that day, and they played good cricket.  So if we learn from our mistakes, I think we'll be fine.
Q. You had a great IPL and you've been very consistent since the last World Cup.  Do you feel like you're bowling as well as maybe you ever have done at the moment?
IMRAN TAHIR: Yeah, I think I've been asked this question, like in the recent two months.  Personally, if I look as a bowler, I think I've been doing the same thing which I've been doing from last like six years or seven years.
But maybe I've been more consistent.  I think that's what people think that I'm doing really well, and I'm bowling really well.  But personally as a bowler, if you ask me as a cricketer, I feel like I've been doing that all my career, but maybe I'm more consistent now, so yeah, that's why I think I'm getting wickets and going for less runs and things like that.
But look, for me, I think I always look one thing, and that's hard work and never give up.  I know I'm the oldest guy on the team, which I'm really proud of, because playing on this team, you need to be very fit (laughs) and I had to do a lot of running for that to be here where I am, and to -- yeah, look, I'm really enjoying my cricket.  Enjoying my teammates.  I just hope as a team we have a great World Cup, like how we thought before we came to England to participate in this World Cup.
Q. We saw the pitch take a bit of turn and the England skipper said after the game it was a little slow.  Do you agree and how do you see it playing tomorrow?
IMRAN TAHIR: I'm not sure if there was much spin because the pitch I bowled, there was no spin.  So I'm not sure if I agree with you on that.
But look, I think it's the second game, so we might see a little bit turn, obviously on the same pitch if you're playing, and because it's been hot, so that might help the spinners.
So yeah, look, I think spins or not spin, it doesn't matter these days.  I think these days you have to bowl consistently in the good areas and especially in the five fielders in, so yeah, looking forward for it.
Q. You said your team must be looking forward to bounce back in the next game but what particular things would you like to improve in the next game against Bangladesh, and is there any team changes?
IMRAN TAHIR: Look, there is obviously -- there is no rocket science.  We just need to learn from our mistakes, what we did in the first game.  I think we need to bat 50 overs and bowl how we bowl in the last game.  I think we will be fine.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT