ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 27, 2015
Imran Tahir
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Imran, excellent performance this evening, five wickets.IMRAN TAHIR: Thank you very much.Q. What was it like?IMRAN TAHIR: No, it was a great feeling.  Look, it's very nice to be part of the Proteas team, and we've been playing very good cricket, working hard, nice to see.  It comes after a hard game last week we played against India, so yeah, on the positive side, we were really good and ready to go, I think, for the next game, as well.Q. Imran, you seem to be the one player that just enjoys playing in front of big crowds; you don't get intimidated by them.  What makes you different?IMRAN TAHIR: I really don't know what to say about it, but I think I just like challenges.  I had a lot of in my life, and then when it comes to that, I think I can be ready for anything, really.  But like I mentioned, look, I'm just really honoured to play for South Africa.  Just to be part of this team is just a special feeling, and when you always walk into the middle with green and gold, I don't know what to say, I just want to take probably 10 wickets every game. But look, it's very special thing, so I think that's what I think before I go.  I think about all the good people in my life who helped me in my career, my wife, my kid is here.  I think that's made my arms a little bit more stronger, carrying him for a few nights. But yeah, look, with their support and with my team's support, I'm just really glad and very happy to be where I am today.Q. Imran, as a bowler how would you bowl to the man sitting next to you?  What would you do?IMRAN TAHIR: No, I'd probably bowl him a beamer or two, two beamers, and I'm out.  Look, I'm just really happy that I'm playing with AB de  Villiers and not against him.  It's just a great honour to watch him every day in the nets.  I'm just not saying that because he's next to me.  I'm sure the whole world knows about him.  He's just an unbelievable player; for me the best player in the century.Q. You've been very consistent over the last 12 to 18 months.  Has there been anything technical that's just sort of driven this or created this consistency as far as your bowling is concerned?IMRAN TAHIR: Not really.  I think I'm pretty much the same bowler.  I think pretty much I'm the same bowler.  The last T20 World Cup we played in Bangladesh I start off in (indiscernible).  I think that helped me a lot, I think, in my One Day T20 cricket because if I bowl to these guys I know I can bowl to anyone in world cricket. So yeah, with their help, and I've been working hard on my fitness and my bowling, and I must mention that Prasanna, he's been helping me a lot, telling me about my feel, what to do and stuff. Look, like I said, you know, I've got   these are the few things which are the small things, but that improves my game, and that's what I think is the reason I've been so consistent.Q. Just in terms of last week you played in front of 90,000 Indian supporters; today the majority were South African supporters.  What was it like being away from home and the crowd was the majority yours?IMRAN TAHIR: Yeah, it was a nice feeling to see a lot of South African flags around us.  Yeah, it felt like home, and I think that probably motivated us more than in the last game, even though we were up for it in the last game, but we just had a bad day.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT