WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 2, 2004
Sjeng Schalken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Please go ahead for Sjeng Schalken.


Q.  You made easy work - quick straight sets, get out of there before the weather heated up too much.

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, afterwards you can say, "I'm happy about the quick match," but during the match you never know how it's gonna go.  And he's a tall guy with a big serve.  And, well, I was very happy that I could break him two times.  He was having, I think, a little bit of timing troubles with his return, so I never got in danger on my own serve.  So it was a smooth ride today.


Q.  Talk about coming to Cincinnati.  How do the facilities and how does the area stack up to other major tournaments in the world?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, it's a real major.  You have a beautiful stadium, even the Grandstand, where we played.  It's all very convenient.  The city itself is a little bit far away, that's unfortunate.  But I think everybody likes playing in Cincinnati a lot, just as much as the other big tournaments, the Masters Series.


Q.  For a guy like me who's never made it outside of North America, you look at Cincinnati, it doesn't sound real exotic compared to Rome and Paris and things like that.  How do you look at it when you come here?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, we look at it as it is our job.  So even if you're in Rome or Paris, those cities are beautiful, but we always stick to the tennis court and we judge ourselves on how we play on the court.  Well, then you see the facilities here are great - I think even better than other tournaments.


Q.  How important is it to get a quick win today?  You knew it was going to be hot outside, you have a long week ahead of you.  To expend as little energy as possible, how nice is that for you?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  It is nice.  Because normally I am in three or four hours of battles.  So it's nice to be playing only one hour and 15 minutes about.  I never expect that for myself because I cannot hit somebody off the court with the big serve or big ground strokes.  I have to work always really hard.  And, well, next match I'm -- like I played many matches here, it will be maybe a two and a half, three-hour match again.


Q.  The heyday of men's tennis seems to have been back in the '80s, '90s. Recently it seems like the ratings just aren't what they used to be.  What do you think men's tennis has to do to get the ratings up and get more interest in it?  I think golf is the big sport now.

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, what is happening at the moment, you have two key players.  One is from Europe, and one is from North America.  And then you have also a couple from South America.  So everybody is involved in the world at the moment.  Well, the ratings in Europe are always good because it's almost all the countries it's sport number two, except in America.  But I think Andy Roddick and Roger Federer can help it because people start to know them and they get interest.  Like they played in Toronto the finals again, it's very good for tennis.


Q.  You got the big servers.  Do you think that hurts the game?  You don't see as many great points as you used to.

SJENG SCHALKEN:  No, no, I don't think so.  It's just the name.  And if you see Roger Federer play, he can do everything.  So he has a good serve, but not a big, big serve.  But he wins all his matches by playing with his shots.  And then you have Andy Roddick who has the biggest serve in the game, but he can play also very good from the baseline.  Yeah, I think it's attractive.


Q.  Do you think Roger Federer is the perfect guy to come along right now to maybe elevate tennis a little bit?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Yeah, together with Andy, yeah.  And then in South America, it's also a big sport.  You see Nalbandian and Coria and Guga Kuerten.  Still have big names from there.  And in Europe it's always big.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT