WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2002
Sjeng Schalken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Good afternoon.  Sjeng for you.  
 
 
Q.  Do you see any weaknesses in Lleyton's game that could be exploited by Tim?  Are there any chinks?
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, with my game, I come straight in his strength because he plays from the back and I play from the back, so I have to battle it out on his strongest point.  But there are no weaknesses in his game, but there are some parts which are very, very strong.  I think his backhand is very strong.  So I just kept away the whole match.  I played to his forehand, everything.  That was my tactic today, and it worked pretty good.  In. The beginning I had no chance, he was playing too good for me.  But when he dropped a little bit and I came up a little bit, we met each other in level.  I was just playing to his forehand all the time.  But that's not the game Tim is going to play. 
 
Q.  You had some chances at the net, but you didn't come forward very much. 
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, he likes it when I come forward on not very good shot, then he will pass me.  Well, that's why Tim has usually troubles with Lleyton, because he likes to go to the net and Lleyton loves to pass.  That's why it's going to be a really interesting match.  But it's a very tough opponent for Tim, and I think he needs to serve his first serve very well, otherwise he will get, yeah, big trouble. 
 
Q.  How do you see it going?
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  I don't know.  They can win here both, and it's going to be an interesting clash.  ut if Tim doesn't serve good, he will have some troubles during the match.  
 
Q.  Was there any point when you thought you were going to win?
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  Yeah, when I'm up, you always have the feeling he will come back.  If Lleyton is up, I think he also has the feeling I'll come back, because I'll never give up.  Yeah, in the fifth set, of course there are two shots I will remember the next week, and that's the backhand down the line.  Yeah, I hit two great shots.  It was the first breakpoint.  I think it was on 4-All, second serve, before the ball came, I said to me, "I just go for it."  I went along line, beautiful shot.  He had it.  Yeah, you pick a corner.  You go cross-court or you go long line.  Long line, great shot.  He was standing there.  Yeah, of course, you make a choice there.  But it was at that point the wrong choice, and I will remember that.  The other one was at 5-All.  I had him there again in his forehand hook with a low slice.  He miss-hits it a bit.  It comes up.  I just go for it.  I think, "Go for it to his backhand."  Yeah, I missed it.  Those were the two shots.  Of course, it's not easy to forget those two shots. 
 
Q.  Do you think Lleyton showed his mental strength as well as his ability on court this afternoon?
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  Yes.  Me, too.  I think we both did.  I was down two sets to Love, didn't have any chances.  The third set was Love-40 two times on my serve.  I didn't know where to pick the points because he was playing too good.  Then I won the third set.  He should have won it.  He had some match points.  Then the fourth set, yeah, it was 6-1, but I was in trouble all the time on my serve.  At the end it was 6-1.  So then it was a big test for Lleyton.  Yeah, we both showed our mental ability. 
 
Q.  What did he say to you afterwards?
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  It was a great match.  Yeah, he said, "you had a great tournament.  Also congratulations."  Yeah, he was nice.  I too, him.  "Good luck for the next match.  It was a great fight."  
 
Q.  Lleyton is No.  1 in the world, obviously.  Could you talk about what makes him so tough?
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  You don't get one ball for free.  Every point, again, you have to make the winner.  You don't get it.  That's his thing.  Every point again you have to start, you have to build it up, and you have to play good in the buildup because otherwise he comes or takes it over.  Then you have to make the shot.  
 
Q.  How does that compare to Agassi's aggressiveness on court?
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  It's a different game.  Andre will let you won.  He's not a real counter-puncher.  Lleyton is the counter-puncher.  I don't have the big shots to just sweep him off the court.  Maybe Krajicek can.  I think he's the only one left in the draw who can maybe throw him some big serves which he cannot reach.  In my game, I don't have the power to overpower him, so I have to play with him.  I have to be really smart and think on every shot.  If the opportunity is there, I have to make it.  I won't get it; I have to make the point all the time. 
 
Q.  When he makes an error, what do you say to yourself?
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Almost go on my knees.  
 
Q.  You had the crowd on your side today, largely because did you show your mental strength.  Yet Lleyton was still able to fight his way to victory.  It will be a similar situation with the crowd for Henman.  Do you think that will faze Lleyton at all or do you think it will be a similar result?
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  I also have the feeling, when I play him, for myself, I don't show any emotions.  I have the feeling that if I start pumping fists or if the crowd gets really against Lleyton, he will get better.  So I'll be very relaxed, yeah.  Because I think if you try to make him angry or if you're against him, then he will go even more for every shot.  
 
Q.  So presumably with the massive support that Tim would get, it could work against him?
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  I'm also looking forward to that match.  I think it's going to be tough for both players.  It's two different styles.  Yeah, they've met already a couple times this year.  I think also the key for Tim is that he has to serve really well.  And Lleyton is just going to stand there and everything he will get or reach, then he will make the shot.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT