WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2002
Sjeng Schalken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  If you get into sort of a grass court grinding session with Lleyton, can you win that, or do you have to be the more aggressive player and get to the net on him? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, I played him now two times, one time in the French and one time in Queen's.  And I don't have my tactics yet against him.  I play two times a little different, but I have to think about that.  Obviously, I am not storming to the net against him, because my volleys are not good enough to, and then he starts  -- that's what he likes, that I attack him.  He loves that.  Because that's his best play.  But I think you are going to see a lot of baseline rallies.  And he'll try to find the point where he can pressure me or where I can't get in a rhythm.  And I'm not afraid of him.  Because he won't hit me off the court.  I think you will see rallies.  But the last two matches, he played the big points better than me.  So he was the better player there.

Q.  Are you saying that you have to become a bigger hitter off the baseline against him if you haven't found your technique against him?  Maybe be more risky? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  I don't think so.  I think when the chance is there, I have to go and attack.  But if there is no chance, I just play with him in the rally.  I think that's a good tactic.  But, yeah, I tried to play in Queen's like that, but he still beat me.  He was the better player, so I don't know.  I'll see how it works in the quarterfinals in two days. 

Q.  He said in his interview that you were good pals, you and he are good pals.  Do you know enough about his game to be able to capitalize on that friendship? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, we see each other in the locker room, have some chats and we like each other.  I think he's a nice kid.  You know, he is still a kid.  I am also a kid but (laughter)...

Q.  Would you say that he is now the man to beat here at Wimbledon? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Yeah, a couple guys.  So...  He is one of them, of course. 

Q.  Who else? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Henman.  Rusedski, Krajicek, Philippoussis.  Those are the five big names I think.

Q.  You had some amazing matches here over the years that haven't always gone your way.  What's your feeling about Wimbledon?  Do you have positive feelings about it or do you have long five-setters in mind?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Yeah, well, I lost those five-setters but I still had a positive feeling when I left because I played my best tennis against Courier and Philippoussis.  Against Henman was okay the first two, three sets last year.  But I started off at four first rounds lost.  I didn't want to go back to Wimbledon anymore, but I'm happy I came back.  The last four years were great for me.

Q.  All the guys on tour, you talk to them about your game, they always say you should be part of the second weeks at Grand Slams, that you have the game to do it.  How does it feel to be here? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Yeah, it's nice.  It took me a long time, about 29 Grand Slams.  But I'm happy to be here and also happy to be far in the second week.  I've been in doubles a couple times far in the second week, so I know how the feeling is.  And, yeah, also it's a different feeling in the locker room.  It's very quiet.  It's a good atmosphere, and it's gonna be eight guys after this day, if the rain is leaving.  And the title will, yeah, give to one of those.  So it's a very small group.  It's a good feeling. 

Q.  Do you have any explanation for what's happened here in terms of just most of the top seeds out of here very quickly? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  I think it's the same like usual.  It's the depth in tennis.  Everybody can play good on a certain day, and you can  -- you see it also Australian Open and the French Open.  You see winners who, yeah, nobody would say before the tournament that they could win it  - maybe Costa more than Johansson.  But, well, everybody can play good on a given day.  Yeah, of course there are many good clay court players and they are also all seeded in this tournament.  So those seeds will fall against grass court players. 

Q.  I realize there is a No. 1 player in the world.  But is there a dominant player in the world right now? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Not yet.  Lleyton might  -- maybe he can get to that point, but he won't hit anybody off the court like Agassi and Sampras used to do.  They just played a level higher, and Lleyton just plays that one ball extra back.  So it's a different feeling playing against Lleyton than against Agassi or Sampras, because if you are not really in good shape against the Agassi and Sampras, then they blow you away.  Yeah, but Lleyton, you have always a chance to play some rallies against him.  But he might get to that stage after a couple years where he can, you know, can be dominating.

Q.  Have you been practicing with Krajicek?  What do you sense his form is right now? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  I haven't been practicing with him, but I saw him play.  I was happy for him when I saw him play, because he was playing very well.  And I think he can only get better.  And, yeah, you see that he's a world-class player   - because if you are out so long, and then he will take his chances, and from the second tournament on, he's in the last 16 already.  So I hope in the next years that he can get his top shape back and go for the big prizes like here.  Because I think he is one of the guys who can claim this title.

Q.  Why do you think it's taken such a long time for you?  Is it more a mental barrier do you think, or your game needed to get stronger?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  I think I'm like wine: I get better by age.  Every year I get a little better, more experience.  I don't have the very big or powerful game, but I got my tactics right on court now.  I don't have really a weak point in the technique.  And, yeah, I'm getting more calm.  So I used to have  -- I wasn't mentally not that strong in the early days when I was 18, 19, 20.  So that's why I have great respect for Lleyton, because he has that already in such a young age and I didn't have that.  But now I'm getting to that point, so that's why I go to the Top 20 now. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT