WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2002
Sjeng Schalken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Who would like to start.  
 
 
Q.  Of course the critical stage in this match was at 3-6 in the tiebreak.  You forced all the points.  Can you take us through the critical points that you won at that stage. 
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  Yeah, at that moment I was thinking, "Well, it's gonna be one-all in sets."  The first set I won.  I think he should have won it because he had more break points and was playing better and I was looking for my shots.  Second set, I felt like I should have won it.  But at 3-6, at that point, I felt like, "Okay, the match is going to be best of three match from now on.  This tiebreak's gonna be for him."  Because, yeah, 3-6.  So I just played two loose games.  I said, "Okay, I'm gonna attack on my service game."  I played two good shots.  Then all of a sudden was 5-6.  I think, "Oh, well, I still have a chance."  Well, at that moment he was attacking me again, first serve and volley.  And I made a very good return.  I saw the hole on his forehand side and I thought, "Okay, let's go for it."  It went good.  Actually, at 6-all, I played the same, exactly the same shot.  So those were two very good shots.  But then all of a sudden I was up 7-6 and there I missed an easy forehand.  And I was really angry with myself because he was in the back of the court and I think if we are both in the back of the court, I should win the point.  So that was my feeling today on the court.  So I was very unhappy with that point, but I came over it.  
 
Q.  On set point, tremendous shot from deep in the backhand corner. 
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  I had a great return.  He made a great pickup.  And then he was closing in.  I thought, "Well, just try to play it close backhand corner."  Actually he missed it.  I think he shouldn't have missed it because he played such a good pickup.  But I was very happy with the shots I made. 
 
Q.  Did you sense most of the pressure was on Jeff with him as the last American in the tournament? 
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  I didn't feel that, that way.  I was just thinking, "Wow, he's a good player."  It was going so quick in the beginning.  I didn't see his serves went.  But, yeah, my game is that I steadily play more and more returns back, and then he will start to feel the pressure of my game, that more and more balls are coming back.  And all of a sudden, if he starts hitting too many second serves, then I'm going to attack him.  I think, yeah, that was the difference today - that he couldn't hold  or couldn't keep up the first serves.  
 
Q.  Actually, in the first set, where you broke him to go up 5-4, you actually hit two great returns off his first serve?
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  Yeah.  The first set, I didn't deserve it.  He deserved it.  He was playing better. I was having troubles with my forehand.  The court was a little bit faster than the other courts.  I play from the back, and I had to work really hard for my service games.  I think I had four or five break points against me.  And then all of a sudden I hit  -- was 30-15, I hit three beautiful returns which I didn't even touch his serves before.  So I think it was a little unlucky for him that I won that match  -- that set.  
 
Q.  What's your history with Vacek? 
 
SJENG SCHALKEN:  I have a good history.  I won two times this year, one time in Queen's, and one time in Stockholm.  So he's a very tough player.  I think he's the same like Arnaud Clement, play exactly the same, except he's two times the height of Arnaud Clement.  And he's a hard worker, and I am a hard worker, so we will see a lot of baseline rallies.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT