TMS - CINCINNATI
August 7, 2000
Sjeng Schalken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







SJENG SCHALKEN: It was 4-All; then I made some doublefaults. He came up with some good
shots. It was all of a sudden 6-4, 2-0. Then it is going to be tough against Chang. He is
a fighter. You have to really win every point and if he starts feeling that he is ahead,
then he gets better and better. But then I fought myself back in play and I came back to
2-All and then I felt really well. I was still in the race, but if it is 3-Love, then it
is going to be very tough. Then I broke him at 3-All, I think again. And at 4-3, I was
15-All, had two doublefaults; then I made myself difficult again. It was 15-40. I came up
with two big shots that saved, actually, I think the whole match coming from 4-3 to 5-3
and last game I played was perfect - in the pocket.

Q. Things were going so well for you at the beginning of the match. Was there some
concern especially with a counter-puncher like him when you get yourself into a third set?

SJENG SCHALKEN: Yeah, he tries to keep coming back. He will never give up. He will
fight himself in the match, in the rallies, and I knew that you always have to fight him a
couple of times in the match. But I came over a couple of times and at the end I won it.
But you have to know it before the match, always it is going to be very tough.

Q. You played with him quite well on some rallies?

SJENG SCHALKEN: That is my specialty also, I am not afraid of him from the baseline.

Q. (inaudible) Rafter kind of used Michael Chang as an example, a great name, but
somebody who is very beatable. That is how he looks at Michael Chang (Inaudible.)

SJENG SCHALKEN: Yes, well, every time I step on the court, with a few exceptions, I
feel that if my own game fits, that I can beat everybody and I am 45 or 50 in the world so
anybody can beat anybody, so also Michael Chang, so I step on the court also against
Michael Chang and if my groundstrokes fit, then he is going to have a tough time
(inaudible) There is a couple of exceptions - really, really good even if they have the --
like Pete Sampras, if he is in shape, he is really tough to beat. But the rest, if you
hang in, you always have a chance.

Q. Did you notice he had so much success here (inaudible) -- Did you notice the crowd
really getting behind him at certain points?

SJENG SCHALKEN: Yeah, that is nice for him, but people also cheering for me and the
funny thing was if people said Chang, then I said, okay, they are cheering me. My first
time is SJENG, so... They are cheering for me.

Q. You had some success this summer coming off L.A.. Did that change anything as far as
going into the match; how you would approach the match?

SJENG SCHALKEN: Yes, because he is on the wall of course, he got stopped last week by
Richard Krajicek, my countrymen. We talked about that match a little bit, so I knew what
to expect and I know if you win a tournament in L.A., it is very strong, so I know he is
in good shape so that is why I am really happy with this win. And these are his courts, so
I beat him on his best surface, so I am really happy that I won.

Q. In general, how did you feel?

SJENG SCHALKEN: I played him three times now. This is the third time and the first time
that was Indian Wells and he was the main man. He won -- I think he won it that year, also
1997, I was coming up in the Tour so I said: Ooh, I have to play Michael Chang. So I was
impressed to win. Then Hamburg, I think he played not better than today. I think today he
played a bit better. So at the end I think you have to ask him how he played. I think it
was a good match and he also played decent tennis.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT