WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2000
Sjeng Schalken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Good evening. Sjeng Schalken. 

Q. It must be devastating to play in a long, exciting match, and come off like this. 

SJENG SCHALKEN: Yes, of course. It's unbelievable it didn't fall my way. It could have
fallen both ways, but actually I had last year the same match against Courier, 14-12. I
also did nothing wrong, I played my game. Yeah, it's unbelievable that both games went
wrong. I think Wimbledon doesn't want to have me in the fourth round so far. 

Q. You looked more likely to break in the early part of that final set. 

SJENG SCHALKEN: Yes, I was very close. Actually, at one stage I was lucky - I don't
know where - I think at 6-5 or 6-All with the slice, short, when he came in. At one stage
I had Love-30. I hit an unbelievable return. He had the luckiest volley ever.
Unbelievable. Then he hit the second serve, questionable if it was line or out. But, you
know, he made them. It was 30-All. That could have been the match, so close was it. Last
year I was really, really devastated from that match against Courier. I didn't do anything
wrong. This time, I will step over it quicker. You learn from those matches. I give the
credit to him because he started serving unbelievable from 10 to 20 in the games. I didn't
have too many chances. I had to fight harder and harder for my games. At the end, he was
the better player. 

Q. What is it like? Is tension building up?

SJENG SCHALKEN: No. You get more and more confidence in your game because you have the
feeling, "He can't break me." He has the feeling, "He can't beat me,"
as well. You both have the confidence growing, growing, growing. I mean, we went 18 times
the serve. Then you have a feeling all of a sudden, "He can't break me anymore."
Unfortunately, he did. But you don't feel tension building up. It's more in the tiebreak,
one or two points. In the game, he has to make four points on the serve. 

Q. Do you feel the physical exhaustion while you're out there or are you only beginning
to feel it now that it's over?

SJENG SCHALKEN: I had the little pain in my right hamstring, but it was all right. It
was a long match, I don't know, four hours maybe. 

Q. Five. 

SJENG SCHALKEN: Five. So I broke the record again, like last year (laughter). 

Q. Do you remember what the score was when you had that Love-30, he had the lucky
volley?

SJENG SCHALKEN: Maybe 10-9. Could be 10-9. He had also 15-40 on my serve a couple
times. 

Q. Do you keep counting or do you sometimes lose control if it is 10-9 or 7-5?

SJENG SCHALKEN: I really don't know what the score is. I only know I'm on serve and I
have to do this, this, and this to win the game. If he's on serve, I try to read where
it's going and put your racquet in front of you. It's all reaction work. He's serving
unbelievable bombs. I wish I had that serve. I have to work harder for every point. 

Q. Are you happy with playing out the last set in that way? Would you rather it went to
a tiebreak, having had two bad experiences?

SJENG SCHALKEN: That's a tough call. I think for me a tiebreak would be better maybe.
But, no, you can't say that. Like the US Open, they have the tiebreak in the fifth set.
Well, you can discuss about it, one is for it, one is against it. On grass court, it's
tougher to break, so matches can continue like this. 

Q. During a long set like this, any intimidation, psychological warfare happen?

SJENG SCHALKEN: Not in this match, no. I think we were both very quiet, concentrated on
our game. Of course, we enjoyed the excitement of the crowd. It was, of course, very nice
to play. It makes you better and better. 
But last year, Courier was a little imitating -- not imitating - intimidating.

Q. What did he do?

SJENG SCHALKEN: Watching at you. He's a good competitor. I love that. I had some good
battles with him.

Q. How long did it take you to get over the Courier game?

SJENG SCHALKEN: Actually, I was devastated from that match because I had two match
points. I came in on two shots, and he made them. But today I didn't really have match
points. I was close a couple of times. Yeah, he served -- he stayed on serve unbelievable
the whole match. I couldn't believe it. I couldn't believe, except for the double-fault in
the third set. I couldn't believe that he was hitting his second serve so hard and so
precise, on the lines. Sometimes he misses them, if he feels pressure. But he kept on
making them. That's why he won, because I would have made some returns, for sure. 

Q. Do you think it will take maybe two or three days to get over this, a bit longer?

SJENG SCHALKEN: Prior I took a shower, I was very pissed. 

Q. Better now?

SJENG SCHALKEN: I'm better now, yeah. I talked with Alex. He said, "It was a
marvelous match. You couldn't play better. You did everything you had to do. Keep on
going. You will climb on the ranking, for sure." That was a good thing. He said the
same last year, but I was still so devastated after a couple of days. I won't have that
now. I feel okay. I've done everything what I could. I couldn't do more. 

Q. From a British point of view, you've done us a favour, softened up Philippoussis for
Monday. How do you feel about that?

SJENG SCHALKEN: It's going to be a great match. I'm sure I'm going to watch
Henman-Philippoussis. Actually, I did the same for Henman last year. 

Q. With Courier?

SJENG SCHALKEN: With Courier. It didn't help, because that was also a very long match.
I hope for Tim and Mark, they don't have such a long match.

Q. Had you got through tonight, what kind of condition would you have been in on
Monday? Were you struggling fitness-wise?

SJENG SCHALKEN: No, I'm fine. On this was clay, it would have been a different story.
But grass, the points are quick, many points from the serve. I would feel all right. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT