TMS - INDIAN WELLS
March 15, 2000
Sjeng Schalken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







GREG SHARKO: Sjeng posted his best win of the season today. He'll move into the Round
of 16 where we'll play the winner of Albert Costa and Goran Ivanisevic. 

Q. Do you think this is may be more than the best win of your career?

SJENG SCHALKEN: Could be. I was a couple of times close with Agassi and Sampras, and I
couldn't actually just -- didn't make it. But I'm very happy that I beat Kafelnikov. He's
also one of the three best guys here on the circuit. I'm really pleased that I finally got
through.

Q. What is your lifetime against Kafelnikov? 

SJENG SCHALKEN: First time was on grass. It was my first grass, and as always a
disaster. It was really quick, 6-Love, 6-2. I didn't have any chance. The second match, he
just won the Australian Open, was in good shape, and I lost also. I was very happy that I
could turn things around.

Q. Did you have a plan going in for this match?

SJENG SCHALKEN: The actual plan against these top players, the groundstrokes have to be
good, so I have to work on the groundstrokes in the match, get confident on that. If I got
more pressure in my shots, then I have a chance to everybody. In the beginning, I started
slow, but my forehand and backhand started to go better and better and better. At the end,
yeah, I was hitting the ball very well. I worked myself good in the match.

Q. There are a great many upsets here today. Can you think of anything that would
contribute to that?

SJENG SCHALKEN: Well, I know that it is very tough also for those guys to win every
match. It is easy possible that they lose all of a sudden in a one day because I think
it's so close to each other. The top-ranked players are just a little bit better in a good
day. Everybody can beat everybody. I think that's the standard answer of that. It's very
strong.

Q. Do you prepare equally no matter who you're facing, or when you're facing someone
like Kafelnikov, some of the other players, do you do anything differently mentally or in
terms of preparation?

SJENG SCHALKEN: You think what is going to happen in the match. To everybody, your own
hits has to be perfect, otherwise you won't win. But he stays in the back more, so you
focus on that. If you play like Rusedski or Krajicek, you know he's going to come in, so
you know you have to go in also more. Those are the things you focus on before the match. 

Q. Some of the other players complained a little about the light conditions on the
outer courts. Did you encounter any of that, any problems with the lights?

SJENG SCHALKEN: I didn't have any problem. The sun was giving a lot of light.

Q. That's what I'm talking about. 

SJENG SCHALKEN: Oh, the sun. The sun is there. You know that. All the courts are facing
the same way. You practice three days before the tournament, you know where the sun is at
which time. That's not a problem I think for nobody.

Q. How do you assess your position now?

SJENG SCHALKEN: Every match is a big fight, of course. The next round will be as tough
as this one. Albert Costa or Goran Ivanisevic, both guys I beat last time on hard court,
but those were big matches. Anything can happen. I just go on. 

Q. Can you talk a little about your training coming into this tournament? Can you talk
about what your normal routine is?

SJENG SCHALKEN: The normal routine is before this big event, I played in Scottsdale.
It's also a little bit of altitude. It's the same court, very nice to practice. There
actually is the training. If you come in this tournament, everything has to be good. So
the preparation was in Scottsdale. I lost to Ferreira first round. We hit a lot of balls,
two and a half hours on the court. That's the main preparation for this week.

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT