DAVIS CUP - NETHERLANDS vs USA
April 4, 1997
Sjeng Schalken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q  How difficult were the wind conditions and how much did that affect your game?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, it affected my game, especially with my serve.  I throw the ball high up and catch more wind if you throw the ball lower.  Especially, if you have the pressure like Andre Agassi is at the other side of the net and he has big returns, so you need to serve very pressurefull.  So that was an extra difficulty.  And, yeah, well, we are both baseline players and well, of course it is hard to play really quick if there is a lot of circling wind all the time.  It is not coming from one side, the wind was everywhere.  And, yeah, I think he was better in those conditions.  He just plays a little bit quicker, especially this game, he was always putting me on the pressure and I had to run a lot.  I think the camera people, they didn't even see me too much, I was always outside the view, I was running so much. But, yeah, he pressured me all the time.  But, normally, if I play a game, I am the one who will pressure somebody.  So, it was really tough.  It was kind of a little bit frustrating match.
  

Q  He said that a friend of his told him that that you said that you wanted a piece of him during the Davis Cup.  Did you in fact say that, that you wanted a piece of Agassi?  In Key Biscayne, he said you said that.

SJENG SCHALKEN:  No, I never do such a thing.
  

Q  Never said that?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  No, of course not.  No, I don't know why such a stories are coming from somebody.  But, I had the same in Philadelphia, the press was also like doing a competition before the match against Sampras and they also told in the press in the papers Schalken, "Sampras has to be really ready," Schalken says, otherwise he is going to beat him.  I never said those things, especially, you know, to those kind of players.  I am the underdog and if I don't play good they kill me.  And, if I play good, it is maybe a match like this.  So, I don't know how these stories can happen.  It is not in my -- I think it is a little bit American way of building up a fight.  But, it is not my way.
  

Q  Was your plan to give him as little pace as you could to make him generate his own pace?   Seemed like you were hit - you weren't hitting the ball as hard as you might have in many of the points and you never went to the net.

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, many times you come because he  has the pressure all the time and then I cannot hit as hard as I can because then I make too many mistakes.  And, at the other hand, I had some troubles with timing the ball with the wind and so -- if you hit them as hard as you can, you make mistakes.  So, what can you do?  You don't hit as hard as you can and put the ball back in play.  On the other hand, if I hit a ball unbelievable hard, sometimes he picks it up right after the bounce and he hits it hard back and I am still under pressure.  So, it was like, "Wow, what is this?"
  

Q  Did you have the feeling in the third set that he was tiring?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  He was tiring?
  

Q  Did you think he was?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  I don't know.  You have to ask him. I don't know.  I thought he had still a lot of energy.
  

Q  How were your nerves?   You came out and lost the first four games.  Did you feel any --

SJENG SCHALKEN:  No, I didn't have nerves.  It was a little bit I had to get used to the atmosphere and I had a little bit of troubles focusing in the first few games.  And, well, if you don't hit enough serves against him, he will break you right away.  So that was the deal.  And, I was not focused enough yet to break him.  But, only thing you can do at that moment is fight and it came and it came and he had set point. It is too bad.  I think it was a good match.  But, I always had the feeling that he was pressuring me and so I am a little bit of -- yeah, if he misses, he misses, but if he makes a point, then -- he was making me -- he was making the plays.  So, it is tough.  Normally, I do that. So -- yeah, that is why it was frustrating.  Normally, it is not your game and I am not a counterplayer, so....
  

Q  Many players who are pretty tall, well over six feet, come to net at least fairly often.  Could you talk about your style of play and why you are pretty committed to baseline style?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, I grew up on clay in Holland. It is really slow and played a lot of groundstrokes and I can beat a lot of players from the back.  But, yeah, I think especially to guys like Agassi who play a little bit quicker than me, I have to go a little bit more to the net.  But, on the other hand, my serve was not that well today and if you don't hit a really good serve, to come to the net, he will hit the first ball right at your feet and second ball, if you made the first volley, you will just make it.  If you lose those points all the time, then -- well, then you feel like, okay, in the back, that is my game, so I am going to try.  He doesn't go to the net that often also.
  

Q  The first set tiebreaker, what do you remember about that and especially that long point?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  I remember a point, I think it was  6-All.  It was amazing, I think.  That was a long point.  But, yeah, there were some key points in the match and they were all his -- like three or four key points.  That was one of them.
  

Q  How disheartening was it for you being down 0-4 in a foreign country and being inexperienced as a Davis Cup player?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, just don't think, and, fight. And watch the ball and don't think about anything.
  

Q  Do you think that Andre played as well today as he did when you played him in Indian Wells?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  I think he was better today.  He was more focused and Indian Wells he didn't know me.  He didn't know my name.
  

Q  If you had to play him now, next time, next week, would you play him differently?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  I don't know.  I think if he is a little bit less focused, I can have him.  But, if he is really focused like today, it is going to be always tough to beat him.
  

Q  Some people in the tennis community seem to think that Andre never again will be the presence in the men's game that he has been.  How would you comment on that?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, there are a lot of good players at the moment.  Andre is one of them.  But, I don't know.  It is tough because many guys have a really good serve, unbelievable good serve and Andre is breakable sometimes.  And if you play like Philippoussis -- I saw him playing him in Indian Wells and I enjoyed the match a lot.  You see that sometimes service is winning it over return.  That was an unbelievable match.  There he was focused.  He even lost to him.  So, like Pete Sampras, he has unbelievable serve.  He can do everything and, well, yeah, if -- he did it like one year ago, or two years ago, so -- I cannot say that.
  

Q  There weren't that many Dutch fans out there.  But, they did manage to make a little bit of noise.

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Yeah, I like that.  That is fun. They always come and they are students and they are really into it.  And, it is nice, I think.  It is also for the people from the United States, they also get alive a little bit because of them.  So it is a good atmosphere.
  

Q  Does that help your game a little bit?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  It helps, I think, both players.
  

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT