WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2003
Sjeng Schalken
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Ladies and gentlemen, English questions for Sjeng.


Q..  Sjeng, how badly were you injured out there? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, I was  -- they gave me an injection before the match because it was too bad and  -- but after three games, I felt it again.  So, actually, it wasn't worth it.  And after that, I felt it when I had to reach for my forehand or when I had to stop, if I had to run to my backhand.  So I was actually one step slow.  Plus, against the quality of Roger, it was no match for him.

Q..  Would you have been able to play the match yesterday?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Not at all. 

Q..  You would have defaulted? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Maybe after one or two games, yeah. 

Q..  Must be really disappointing, then, to see your Wimbledon end in such a sad way? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Well, I also  -- it's not really disappointing because Roger is such a quality player, which I can understand of myself that I can lose to this guy  - even if I'm 100 percent fit.  And it's a tough draw  - quarterfinal playing against him.  He serves a little tougher than me, and that's why  -- on the baseline, we are 50/50.  So that's why it was always gonna be a very tough match.  But, yeah, if I'm one step slow and I feel pain on my foot, then it's  -- the match is more in disbalance.

Q..  Is this injury going to keep you off the tour for the foreseeable future?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Hopefully not. 

Q..  You have big points to defend at the US Open.  Presumably, you'll make that appointment, will you?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Yes, I'll try my best, and hopefully I can play some tournaments before.  I have now, for sure, 10 days off, and I try to get healthy for Indianapolis and all the other fast American courts, which I like. 

Q..  So the suggestion of surgery, you don't need surgery?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  I don't need surgery because it's all ligament, it's not the bone or  -- it's just the pressure point which I have to deal with with my career, also. 

Q..  You played the eventual winner here last year in Wimbledon.  Do you think you played him today as well?

SJENG SCHALKEN:  I think so, and I hope so for Roger.  I like him as a person, and I like him as a sportsman.  So he deserves it.  I think he's the best player around at the last four, and for sure he has the most talent.  Hopefully, everything falls together for him.  Yeah, even if I was 100 percent fit, it would have been very tough to beat him. 

Q..  He told us that he'd rather you have been 100 percent fit, so that's a measure of his sportsmanship, isn't it? 

SJENG SCHALKEN:  Yes, but it's not easy for him to play somebody who is not 100 percent fit, and then he can go to his only weakness, that he should lose a little  -- can lose a little concentration, because, yeah, I am not playing 100 percent.  And, yeah, but he did a good job finishing me in three sets because I didn't give in to him. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT