NCAA DIVISION I WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2007
Trent Paulson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Trent, you faced Coleman in Midland in a very high scoring match.  What did you take from that match to this one?  And also, did you feel like you could use your strength to really tie him up and not allow him to -- I think he has got one of the quicker shots in college wrestling.  Did you feel you had a distinct strength and advantage and you had to use that? 
 TRENT PAULSON:  What I took from the Midlands match is as the match went on I got stronger.  I just want to do that from the beginning, try to get the first takedown, get the momentum going my way from the start.  I don't want to play catchup because, as you said, he's really quick and he's hard to get a hold of once you get the lead.  I feel confident if I tied up with him he wouldn't get my legs. 

 Q.  Your brother, how much does that take away from your victory?  How do you guys separate that? 
 TRENT PAULSON: Now I don't even feel like celebrating.  It sucks.  I know he's upset more than anyone.  He's the hardest worker on the team.  And frankly, John Hendricks is the least person I like in the wrestling community.  So for him to beat him it makes it that much worse. 

 Q.  It's amazing emotions.  Here you put the team ahead and then your brother gets beat trying to go for the finals, too.  How tough of an ebb and flow is that? 
 TRENT PAULSON: It's just devastating.  I'm happy that I was able to get points for him to get ahead, but at the same time I would rather see my brother getting to the finals instead of me.  He's the hardest worker on the team.  He pushes me more than I push him. 

 Q.  With Dustin's loss from Minnesota, 49, and your victory, 57, do you feel any sort of pressure in terms of the team points and trying to catch up with the Gophers? 
 TRENT PAULSON: Not necessarily, the team is always in the back of my mind, but Gail said from square one in this tournament, you have to worry about yourself and that's the best thing for the team, try to dominate each match.  Your win will come and the team's win will come. 

 Q.  You worked hard to get here, as well.  I know it's tough now, but it's got to feel pretty satisfying to wrestle for a national title tomorrow? 
 TRENT PAULSON: It's been my goal even when I was a little kid.  I always wanted to be a national champion in college.  To make it to the finals is a dream come true.  I just have one more match. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT