TOSTITOS FIESTA BOWL: STANFORD v OKLAHOMA STATE
January 2, 2012
Terrance Brown
Andrew Luck
David Shaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









COACH SHAW:   Bottom line, kids played hard.   We played our style of football.   We didn't finish, and that's not just the kick at the end.   We didn't finish the game, the game that we're capable of.   I love these guys to death.   I will take questions. 

Q.   How do you console a sophomore like Williamson after a night like he had tonight?
COACH SHAW:   There is an old saying that adversity reveals character, and that's not just for him, that's for all of us, to have a tightly fought game.   Two real good teams come down to a few plays, not just that one, but a few plays that we could have all done something a little bit better. 
I have a lot of confidence in the guys we have in our locker room as individuals but also what we're capable of together, get through this together and coming back, fighting back strong and hard.

Q.   Were you at all surprised with the success you had,   that the team had, getting to the outside, whether it be with the run or Andrew Luck rolling outside to find an open receiver?
COACH SHAW:   No.   I mean, I wasn't surprised.   I mean, we did some things that we planned on doing and we had some success. 
We weren't perfect.   Oklahoma State made some key stops as they have done all year on defense.   That's what they have been known for.   They give up yards but they get key stops and they get turnovers.   And they got some tonight.

Q.   David, what has Andrew Luck meant to this program as a representative, both the program and real of the entire conference and college football? 
COACH SHAW:   Since he's officially not completely mine any more, I will completely go over the top and say that he's a Hall of Fame college football player.   They come around every 20 years or so.   He hates to hear that, but it is the dog‑gone truth.   And once again, it has nothing to do with how he throws the ball. 
These guys right up here, in particular these seniors up here, they came in with Andrew.   They came in with the mind‑set that they are going to make a splash here, that they were going to show the nation that you can be a high academic institution and go to BCS Bowl games and make it happen, that there are young men out there that are looking for what Stanford University has to offer, which is the best of both worlds. 
We are not going to shy away from that.   That's our mission.   And these guys, Andrew in particular, were at the forefront of that.

Q.   Specifically, if you're not going to include Jordan, how do you mean "you didn't finish well" with as much specificity as you can manage?
COACH SHAW:   Well, top to bottom.   I mean, the second half, we had a chance to get a couple more stops, we didn't, on defense. 
We let a long return get out, longer than it should have been.   And then offensively, we talk about it all the time:   We cannot settle for field goals against a good football team.   Whether you make them or you miss them, against a good team it is inconsequential.   Good teams score touchdowns.   If you kick the field goal, now you are back behind the eight ball.

Q.   Andrew, your decision to come back, was it worth it?   What did you gain from this season? 
ANDREW LUCK:   Yes, it was worth it.   Not to say I enjoyed every moment, because I didn't.   But I would never regret it.   I felt I grew a lot as a person, as a player.   Just in life, I learned a lot.   Got a chance to be around guys like Chase and Delano.   I think we've we forged unbelievable friendships and had a chance to play a great college football game.   Definitely worth it.

Q.   Terrence, how did Justin Blackmon compared to what you guys were expecting from him? 
TERRENCE BROWN: As we were preparing for the game, we knew he was going to be a great athlete, a great wide receiver and be able to make tremendous plays.   Tops up to him.   He real stepped up and made big‑time plays that a big‑time player would make.
He didn't‑‑ we didn't expect too much anything different from him. 

Q.   Andrew, how long will it take for you to process your own game as opposed to the final result?   Will the result always nag at you more than the fact that you were about as efficient as you have been all year? 
ANDREW LUCK:   Absolutely.   I play football to win.   I think everybody up here will say the same thing.   Yeah, I'm sure I will watch the film and see where I can get better or see what I did well.   But at the end of the day, we lost.   I'm as much to blame as the next guy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT