DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINAL: USA VS CROATIA
July 15, 2016
Zeljko Krajan
Borna Coric
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Davis Cup Quarterfinal:  USA vs Croatia
J. ISNER/B. Coric
6-4, 6-4, 6-3
CROATIA
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Borna, can you talk about what happened out there today.
BORNA CORIC: I mean, I lost.  That's what happened.  I didn't use my chances in the first two sets obviously.  I had many chances to break him, and then on 5-4 in both sets I played really poor game.  It was basically not much to say honestly.
Q. How tough is his serve?  I think he had like 23 aces.  Gave you a few break points, but didn't come to pass.
BORNA CORIC: Yeah, I mean, I think I was returning very good.  I was happy with my returns at the beginning of the match.  You know, actually, in my tactics, I expected if I have one or two chances in the match that would be good.  In the first two sets I had eight or nine break points.
You know, so I was returning better than I was expecting to.  Obviously I didn't hold my serve very good.  On the important points I didn't play.
Q. Zeljko, can you talk about 2-Love down going into tomorrow, how it might turn around for you or your expectations?
CAPTAIN KRAJAN: Well, of course it's going to be very, very tough now.  If we expecting something, it's maybe to be two out in the front be two in the front or at least one all, which didn't happen.  So we are 2-Love down, and tomorrow against Bryan brothers in doubles, it's going to be very, very hard.
And again, two singles matches on Sunday.  They just need one more point so they are really big favorites now.  We're still here and still going to give everything and try to win.
Q. Borna, the Olympics are coming up.  A couple players said today they're not going to play because of the Zika Virus.  Talk about that.
BORNA CORIC: As far as I'm concerned I'm going to play.  I don't have problems with Zika.  Yeah, it's going to be great experience for me.  Going to be my first Olympics.  I'm really looking forward to it.
Obviously it's very big thing.  I'm only 19 and I'm going to be already there.  Not many people can say that.  So I'm just very proud of that.  Obviously I'm just looking forward to it, yeah.
Q. Borna, you're young and talented.  You mentioned you're just 19.  Olympics, Davis Cup, everything.  What are you doing most that you think will prepare you as you face so many expectations in your career?
BORNA CORIC: I'm sorry, I didn't understand the question.
Q. What are you doing to prepare most for your future as you have so many expectations with the Olympics, Davis Cup, and as a young rising star.  How do you handle this pressure the most for your career?
BORNA CORIC: Well, I mean, obviously I'm not doing so much because I'm not playing that well.  Obviously I'm not preparing very well.  I am going to need to change something for sure.  That's the tennis.
Regarding pressure, I mean, that's normal thing to have.  I have it since I was 12 years old from the first time I played good in a bigger tournaments, you know.
And I'm going to have it for the next 15 years.  Honestly, I don't have problems with it.  I'm just really enjoying playing tennis, and I don't bother so much with the pressure and with the expectations.
And, I mean, of course there is some pressure, but, you know, I'm aware I'm going to have for the next 15 years.  So if I'm going to have the pressure every day, you know, and if I'm going to just think about that, I'm not going to sleep.
So I can't do that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT