KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2017
Rick Schuller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A little tired?
RICK SCHULLER: Yeah, the 4:30 wake up call, played six holes, and I struggled mightily in the morning, trying to make the cut.  I made a double bogey on my finishing hole this morning to end up -- but I only hit one green and one fairway in those six holes and I was just trying to get it in.  I was getting it up-and-down.
Then I started off awesome this afternoon in the second round or the third round here.  I got it to 4-under par, putter felt good, and then as we made that turn around 7, 8, 9, 10, I just, my body was, my back and muscles, everything was tightening up.  I made a silly bogey on the 9th hole with just a wedge in my hand.  Then that 10th hole, just missed the green and didn't get up-and-down.  So finished bogey, bogey, so it was a little bit of a sour taste, but all in all I'm very happy.
Q. You still got a little room tomorrow, obviously, and it's a golf course you know well.
RICK SCHULLER: I do.  It's an endurance test, with this walk, a lot of green-to-tee walks, factor those in, and it's a long walk.  Being that it's wet and kind of mucky, it's like running in sand.  But I'm curious -- I made an eagle on 18 -- and I'm curious if they're still giving out crystal for that.  Because I know they used to.
Q. Tell me about the eagle on 18.
RICK SCHULLER: I hit a tremendous drive down the left side of the fairway.  I hit a 4-iron to about 25 feet and knocked it in.  So it was fun.  I got a nice little roar and a cheer on 18.  That was really cool.  It will be a life-long memory.
Q. I'm happy that you got a good shot tomorrow and that's great, because you've always pushed for it and three cuts in a row now you made and you know how much this competitiveness among the club professionals is and five made the cut.  So right now it's you and Mark and I guess and Roth are really in position to challenge tomorrow.
RICK SCHULLER: Yeah, well, I'm up for the challenge, I'm going to get a good night's rest and maybe a massage or something and I'll be ready to go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT