KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2017
Rick Schuller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. The marathon is over with.  Just speak about the stop and the start and just holding it together yourself.
RICK SCHULLER: Mentally it's so hard just because it happens so slow and it takes so long and then you're trying not to look ahead and predict what might happen and making a cut -- and this is now my third cut in a row, so this is really neat, my three times I've been in this.
I was holding it together, this morning was a little shaky, swing didn't feel as good as it did the past couple days.  But I managed some great saves.
Then I got to my last hole, which was a tricky par-3, number 11.  I was 1-over for the tournament and I was trying to play smart, take long out of play, hit an 8-iron up there front middle part of the green and I unfortunately pulled it and then it went in the hazard down there.  So I had to drop way back from where it crossed.  So then that left me a tricky pitch to, again, not -- I was up on that top shelf and if you go long, you're dead.  So I hit the pitch and it hit short and stopped dead.  So now I got a 70 foot putt --
Q. For bogey?
RICK SCHULLER: -- up and over a ridge and it broke about six feet right-to-left and I rolled that up there and I knew I had a 2-putt to make the cut in my mind, but -- and I 2-putted.
Q. How far was your bogey putt -- double bogey putt I should say.
RICK SCHULLER: Probably five feet, six feet.
Q. 6-footer?
RICK SCHULLER: Yeah, so it was like, I was just playing along comfortably making pars and making pars and I almost birdied 9 and kind of got a bad break on a bunker shot that was pin high and off my tee ball and it hit on the slope and then caught a sprinkler head and killed it from going down the hill.
So I made par there, so I felt comfortable.  I said, all right, I got basically two or three shots to play with, but I was thinking smart and I picked out a target and I just instinctively, with a club that I knew I couldn't get there, I just tried to hit it hard to get it there anyhow, and pulled it.  But luckily it wasn't an awful train wreck, but we survive and now I can relax and have fun over the rest of the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT