SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2016
Rick Schuller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Late addition to the field, am I right, two days ago?  
RICK SCHULLER: Yes.  Jay Haas backed out on, I think it would be the Sunday evening or Monday morning when I got the call from Susan that I was in and I was super excited.  I made the trip from Virginia on Sunday and just drove 12 hours hoping and end up getting in and just was able to play three practice rounds, which was great.  I played with Joe Durant and Dirk Schultz, Billy Andrade and Gene Sauers, we played.  And then Dirk Schultz, good friend of mine and Chip Sullivan, played a practice round.   
Very comfortable, a lot of fun.  They shared their experiences around this golf course, too.  So this place is really hard.  But the scores, obviously, aren't indicating that it's hard, but it's hard.   
 Q.  You got off to a bad start, you had a double bogey I believe.  
RICK SCHULLER: The first green I missed all day, too.  I think that was 13th hole, par-3, just went, I hit a shot with a blank mind and I pulled it and just got into a real mess over the green.  And just continued to flub shots and finally I 1-putted for double, so I did good.   
I birdied the hole before it and then the next two after it, so I came back into it.   
Then 16, 17 and 18 are challenging holes.  Especially with the wind blowing.   
I made a great par on 16.   
17 was a good up-and-down.   
18, you know, I did the hard part, I thought, I drove it well and then I just kind of came out of an 8-iron on the second shot.  Hit a good bunker shot and lipped up out the par putt so I'm very, very happy about it.   
 Q.  Considering everything, it's pretty solid.  
RICK SCHULLER: Very solid.   
 Q.  There's going to be some bumps on this golf course.  
RICK SCHULLER: On this golf course and, unfortunately, I saw Bob Tway get into some of those where one little, couple feet here or there bounce led to doubles and triples.  And you see that, it's hard to just stay focused.   
The course is so demanding, if you're on the wrong side of a pin or off the green somewhere, you just can't get it close.  It's just the nature of the design.  So you really have to plan ahead with your approach shots.  If you're hitting your irons where you're looking, you got a chance, but it's a tough golf course.   
 Q.  You hung well with the guys who come from great pedigrees.  
RICK SCHULLER: Oh, they were so, so nice.  Very supportive.  Saying good shot and this and that and I always like to do that myself.  But they were very receiving of me and I apologized on the first tee that they didn't have Jay Haas to play with, so they said, don't worry about it.  But I just couldn't --   
 Q.  I was going to ask you, have you ever been in this position where you waited so late to come in an event and played well the first day?  
RICK SCHULLER: I've never been in as an alternate like that.  I wasn't sure how, if I was going to get in and planning and preparing lessons on the book and stuff like that.  Not knowing what your schedule entails, so to get that last minute, hey, you're in, that was fantastic.  This was Christmas time for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT