NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS vs ROCKETS
May 21, 2018
P.J. Tucker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What did you think when Mike D'Antoni said you all played soft last night?  What do you think about that and how do you fix that?  
P.J. TUCKER: Last night felt a lot like Game 1.  We started off pretty good the first couple minutes, but we gave up a lot of easy baskets.  We didn't get back in transition, we didn't communicate well and we were soft, period.  So to combat that, I guess you just play harder, play tougher.   
 Q.  How much does that irritate you?  
P.J. TUCKER: It's pretty irritating.  I got pretty frustrated just because for us to come out with the grit and toughness that we did in Game 2 -- to come back Game 3 like that is disappointing.  If we're going to have a chance to win this series, we're going to have to play harder.   
 Q.  James Harden has said that despite the loss and the way it went down last night, this is not a team that's lacking confidence.  You guys have proved that all year?  
P.J. TUCKER: That's the one thing about our team.  We lose and we come back the next game like it didn't even happen.  Everybody's still in good spirits.  You see guys doing the same things.  It's always a good thing when you have a veteran team like this to kind of bounce back all the time.   
 Q.  What do you have to see early on that tells you you're not going to be like you were as a team last night playing soft?  
P.J. TUCKER: I think the focus.  I think the focus coming in, knowing what we're going to do and actually going out to do it.  It's easy to talk about it.  It's easy to do for a game.  But to do it in a series, you have to be consistent and do it every single night to beat these guys.  It's something we're going to have to figure out how to do.   
 Q.  What do you guys take from what you were able to accomplish in Game 2?  Similar situation now where you need to answer?  
P.J. TUCKER: I think for the most part Game 2 was that sense of urgency.  That sense of urgency every possession to have to get out shooters, get back in transition, to load up and be able to stop them and deter them from getting easy baskets.  That sense of urgency to do all the little things.   
 Q.  You guys have talked a lot about the aggressiveness you need to create earlier offense and so on.  Can you get enough of that on times when it's not off a turnover or missed shot?  Can you have that attitude or style?  
P.J. TUCKER: Yeah, we usually do.  We usually do.  I mean, we hit phases of it.  You see it come and go.  But for the most part, we do.  But for us to actually win the series is not that.  It's getting stops on defense, and then having the offense.  The offense comes much easier.  You get James and Chris [Paul] going downhill and making plays, they make it easy for everybody when they get like that.  Having to take the ball out slows that process down, and it's something we're going to have to figure out.   
 Q.  Are there enough of those?  They're going to hit some shots.  
P.J. TUCKER: Yeah, they're going to make some, but obviously you have to try to limit it as much as possible.  You don't ever want to have to take the ball out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT