SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. MURRAY/L. Pouille   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Regarding his game, can you try to explain what you found you could take advantage of today?  
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I think, I mean, he tried quite a lot of things out on the court today.  You know, the start of the match was, you know, it was pretty tight.  It was long first two games, and, you know, I managed to get through them and was up a break.   
You know, it was a good start from both of us.  Then, you know, maybe he started rushing a little bit the next couple of games, you know, and the first set was pretty much gone.   
But, you know, in the second set he changed it up.  He started using a bit more slice, he was serve/volleying a bit, he was stepping in on some second-serve returns, sometimes going back.  So he tried a lot of different things today.   
But, you know, I came up with some good shots.  At the end when I needed them, I was hitting the ball clean, moving well.  You know, I didn't give him really many free points.  When that's the case and you're trying to do a lot of different things and it's not working, that can be frustrating sometimes.   
 Q.  There was some sayings about changing current ATP tournament formats, like turning a few 1000 Masters into Super Masters.  How do you think about that?  
ANDY MURRAY: I didn't hear the start of the question.   
 Q.  There was some sayings about changing current ATP tournament format, changing a few 1000 Masters into Super Masters like 2000.  So how do you think about that?  
ANDY MURRAY: I hadn't heard anything about that.  I know some of the tournaments were wanting to go to 10 days like Indian Wells and Miami, maybe Madrid were wanting to do that.  I think also here, as well.   
But I hadn't heard anything about it being a Super Masters or 2000 points.  I personally have not heard that.  And I have not given it any thought, either, so I don't know what to say.  Sorry.   
 Q.  Nick has been fined.  Do you think that's the best way to discipline a young player, or do you think it was too much?  
ANDY MURRAY: Again, I don't know.  I haven't really given it much thought, to be honest.  I mean, you know, that's up to the people that run the sport to decide what's appropriate and what isn't.   
There is obviously a number of things that happened on the court yesterday, so it was a large fine for I think a few different things, maybe three or four different things.  So that's why the fine is a big one.   
Also, I didn't see the match, so it's difficult for me to also comment on that really.  Whether it's the best way to discipline young players, I don't know.  I don't know if that stops that happening again.  I'm not convinced about that.   
 Q.  It seems impossible to hit a winner through you these days.  Physically is this the best shape you have had at the end of a season ever?  
ANDY MURRAY: Maybe.  It's very difficult to say.  I mean, some years -- one year I played and won all three tournaments here in Asia, and some years I have -- actually, most of the years when I have come here I felt pretty good on the court and I have enjoyed playing in these conditions.  I like it.  I like it here.   
But I think just after the summer that I had and after the US Open and Davis Cup, my body felt so much better after taking like seven, eight days off of complete rest, which I hadn't had for quite a long time, and, you know, I'm really, really happy and glad now that I did that.  It's obviously working out well for me just now.   
I do feel good.  I moved extremely well the first couple of matches here, and, yeah, I do feel like I'm seeing the game well and reading it good.  Hopefully I can keep that up the next few days.   
 Q.  (In Chinese.)  When you were in practicing court in the afternoon, we saw many fans waiting for you out there.  So you feel in Beijing and now in Shanghai you are accumulating increasing number of fans.  Well, Djokovic, he tends to use Chinese to talk to the fans.  What methods would you think you would employ to, you know, communicate and interact with these fans?  Why do you think they like you?  Is it because of your performance or is it because of your, you know, charm, how to react to them, things like that?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I don't know really what I could do differently.  I have always had pretty good support here when I first came here.  This year it seems a lot more than usual on the practice courts.  Since I got here it was really, really busy.  Today, especially.   
Yeah, I appreciate the support.  I don't know what it is or why they like supporting me.  I don't know.  You'd have to ask them.  But this year definitely more than others has been more support.   
 Q.  We read interesting news that when you were in Beijing, the notes you took was caught by the camera.  And it was not the first time for you to be put in this kind of situation.  So this time you come to Shanghai, I just want to know do you still keep the habit to take notes before you go to the game and you try to hide it?  Or you told the camera crews that don't just expose them to the public or something like that?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I still have them.  They were also hidden in Beijing, as well.  But the camera crews were going right into, inside my bag to see what was on them.   
Yeah, I just asked, you know, this week if it's okay that I don't mind the camera being on me at the change of ends but just to not be right inside my bag, if possible.  Hopefully they respect that and it's not a problem.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT