CHINA OPEN
October 7, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/K. Edmund
7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. He's an improving player all the time, isn't he?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, most of the guys his age, each time you play against them, you see differences in their game.
With Kyle, I obviously see it happening more regularly because I practice with him and follow his matches closer than some of the other young guys.  But, you know, this is a different surface to what we played on on the grass at Queen's.
Yeah, I mean, he made it very tough for me.  He's improving, yeah, at a pretty solid pace just now.  His ranking is moving in the right direction.  Last few months, he's had a lot of very good wins against top-20 opponents.
Yeah, he's getting there.  If he keeps going on the path he's on just now, he'll be up at the top of the game very soon.
Q. Your serve was tremendous in the first set.  You had 20 unreturned serves.  You were 25 for 25 on first-serve points.  Was that a game plan going in, take advantage some free points off your serve?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think the conditions kind of allowed it a bit more than maybe when I played my last match.  When you're playing outdoors in the evening, it's extremely cold.  Normally playing indoors, a little bit easier to serve, can be a little bit quicker.
Both of us got quite a lot of free points on the serve in the first set.  Yeah, I served well.  It was the best I served in the three matches that I played here so far.  Yeah, got a lot of success with that.  Yeah, I didn't lose a point behind my first serve in the first set, so that was very positive.
Q. I don't know if you've read or heard about Novak's comments a few days ago that he lost a bit of joy to be on the court after the French Open and the pressure of playing for history got to him.  I don't know if you understand that and have any thoughts about it.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, a lot of players have gone through that.  It can happen at different stages.  When you achieve something that you've wanted to achieve for such a long time and put so much effort and thought into that, and come close a number of times and not quite done it, I think when you finally do it, you feel incredible for a number of days afterwards.  But, you know, there can be a low after that.  It would be completely understandable to have those feelings.
I'm sure a lot of players have experienced that at different stages after big wins in their career.  I think it's quite normal.
Q. In the second set you lost two games, then won six games straight.  How did you adjust yourself at that time?
ANDY MURRAY: I think I had a breakpoint in the first game.  Didn't get it.  Maybe two breakpoints in the first game of the set and didn't get it.  Yeah, sometimes that can happen.  Maybe if I win that first game, the second set's a little bit more comfortable.  Kyle played a good game to break me.  Thankfully I got it straight back.
I felt like in the second set, I did start to dictate more of the points.  Even though I went behind early on, I felt like I was dictating more of the points.  More of the match was more on my terms then, whereas in the first set, you know, Kyle was dictating a lot.  I managed to change things around a little bit.
Q. You are facing David Ferrer.  What are you expecting of that match?
ANDY MURRAY: It will be hard, for sure.  Every match against him, he certainly makes you earn it.  There's not many short points.  He's a great returner, moves extremely well.  He makes every match tough.
You always have to play very well to win against him.  If you don't, there's a good chance you lose the match.  I'll have to play very well tomorrow against him and I expect it to be very hard.
Q. You talked about the cold weather.  How will you adjust yourself to make yourself get into a rhythm quickly in the next round?
ANDY MURRAY: I think in the evenings it's cold.  I mean, today it was nothing to do with it being cold why the first set was hard.  But, yeah, in the evenings it's different conditions.
I think tomorrow the weather forecast is good.  Most likely we'll play outdoors.  It is tricky playing one day indoors, next day outdoors, indoors, outdoors.  It can take a bit of time to get used to the conditions.
Make sure I get a good practice in tomorrow and then hopefully start the match well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT