ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 8, 2019
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








F. FOGNINI/A. Murray
7-6, 2-6, 7-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you just tell us why you weren't happy with Fabio towards the end.
ANDY MURRAY: Because he shouted as I was about to volley on top of the net.
Q. What words did you have with him at the net? What did you say to him? Seemed like there was a lengthy exchange.
ANDY MURRAY: So I had a volley on top of the net. Someone made a noise. I didn't know who made the noise.
I looked in the direction of where the noise came from. He then told me, Stop looking at me. What are you looking at me for? I was, like, Well, I was just about to hit a shot and someone made a noise.
He then was telling me to stop looking at him, which normally when someone shouts in the middle of a point -- this is pretty rare that that happens. And then, yeah. He told me to stop complaining, to have a sense of humor, that when you have a volley on top of the net, you know you're not going to miss it.
I was, like, I know I'm not going to miss it, but I wanted to know where the noise, the sound came from. It came from him, which you're not allowed to do. It's against the rules. It's hindrance. You shouldn't do it.
But he said I should have a sense of humor about that. Neither of us, I would say in that moment, neither of us were in sort of a joking, laughing kind of mood.
That was the issue I had.
Q. Just on the match, obviously a disappointment and you served for it twice, but do you also take anything good that you went three hours and were close? Or it's too hard to do that?
ANDY MURRAY: No, I'm very disappointed just now.
Q. What did you learn from that match from the way you played and you fought? Does that give you any encouraging signs that the comeback is on track and moving the way you wanted to?
ANDY MURRAY: There is a lot of things that I need to get better at, and I can do much better. I will go away and I'll work on those things and be in a better position next time I play against him.
Q. Is your disappointment coming from disappointment with something particularly from yourself or his behavior on the court or just a little bit of everything?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I served for the match twice and lost after three hours, so, I mean, I want to say that's the first time ever in my career that that's happened. I don't know. But I think it's the first time I served for a match twice and not won. So I'm disappointed about that.
And obviously the way the match finished makes it a bit more frustrating, as well.
Q. Can I just ask what you said to Fergus at the end? Did you feel he should have intervened or what?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, nothing happened. I mean, nothing happened, and, I mean, I don't know what the -- I don't know what the rules with that are. I have never had it in a match, and I have played, I don't know, 800-odd matches on the tour. I have never had that happen.
So I don't know what the situation with that is, but, yeah, I mean, he wasn't saying anything to him, so I was just -- I was obviously frustrated with that. He wanted to engage with me, Fabio, and I probably shouldn't have done, but I'm not having him talk to me like that on the court.
Q. What's your schedule from here? Do you have an idea for the remainder of the year?
ANDY MURRAY: I'm playing Antwerp and then Davis Cup. That's my plan just now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT