U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/L. Rosol
6-3, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You made it look very comfortable.  Seemed pretty easy out there for you.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, in the start of the match he had a few chances the first couple of service games.  Yeah, he came out going for his shots.  Once I got through that, you know, sort of tricky period right at the start where he's hitting the ball really well, you know, kind of adjusting to the conditions.  The arena, it's quite different playing out there now.  It's a lot louder than most places that we play, so you don't hear the ball as much.  There's a slightly different sound in there.  Once I got through that, I settled down and played, you know, I think a really good match.
Q. Do you think the noise and the atmosphere in there was different to previous years?  It seemed there was just a constant hum or noise in the crowd throughout the match.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think last year was similar.  You know, I'm assuming it's to do with the roof.  I mean, normally there's always been noise out there.  I think the roof has changed that a little bit.
Q. Can you feed off that, the energy you get from the crowd?  I know you like playing here.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I think you get used to it as the match goes on.  But it is very different.  You know, imagine when you go to play on one of the outside courts, it will be quite a significant change.
Q. Any difference with the trajectory of the ball through the air or anything like that?
ANDY MURRAY: I think in the evenings -- it was extremely humid tonight.  This is nothing, in my opinion, to do with the roof.  It's always been like that in the evenings, a little bit easier to control the ball.
The court is obviously cooler, so it's staying a little bit lower.  It's not bouncing up as high.  During the day that's obviously quite different.  The ball's bouncing up a lot more, tends to be a little bit harder to control.
Obviously now in there, this is because of the roof, there's literally no wind at all.  It almost has a feel of playing indoors because there's no wind.  It's, like, perfect conditions to play really.
Q. Five Brits into round two.  Did you watch any of the other matches?  What did you make of them?
ANDY MURRAY: I saw the first couple of sets of Kyle's match.  That's been it.  I didn't get to see any of the matches today.  Yeah, I mean, Kyle played extremely well.  I mean, I practiced with him the day beforehand.
He was hitting the ball good in practice.  He's improving all of the time.  To win a match like that in a slam that comfortably against a top player, a guy that's been at the top for a long time, you know, is a very good sign.
Yeah, it was good for him.  Then obviously all the other Brits, obviously Naomi and Laura had a tight match.  Dan got through, you know, a tricky one against Ram.  Konta has been solid for a long time.  Heather has never played so well here.
It's been, I guess, a pretty good start for the Brits.
Q. You're third on the list of points won on second serve.  Must be pretty happy with that part of your game?
ANDY MURRAY: I served very well tonight.  I used good variation on the second serve, as well.  But, yeah, first and second serve were very good tonight.  That's something that I worked on a lot.  It was good through the grass at Wimbledon.  It was important for me.
You know, especially in the final there and the semis, I was really not giving up too many chances.  Last week, as well, was the same thing.  And in Cincinnati, too.  When I serve well, the rest of my game tends to follow.
Q. There didn't appear to be a semblance of weariness out there.  A good week of rest?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it's tough to get the balance totally right the last week because, you know, I wanted to get used to the conditions but also didn't want to spend so much time on the court that I came in feeling tired, because it could have been quite easy to do that.
Haven't been in that position too many times coming into New York.  Obviously maybe last year was a little bit similar.  You know, kind of tried to learn a little bit from that, as well.
But I felt good out there.  You know, didn't waste too much energy, which is important, because it's obviously a late finish.  It will be a late one by the time I get back and in bed, even though the match, if it had gone four sets, an extra 45 minutes, an hour, becomes pretty late.  I'm glad I got it done quickly and I feel all right.
Q. You said on court Ivan has changed having you playing with younger players.  Can you explain that.
ANDY MURRAY: It's best to ask him that.  I said, you know, not a whole lot's changed.  But I think having the experience of coaching other players changes things a little bit.  You probably learn more from working with different players of different ages.
When we worked together the first time, it's the first time Ivan had ever coached, as well.  Now, having worked with younger players, I think you learn different skills and understand certain things a bit better.
I think with young players especially, you know, you can't just tell them, You served terrible today.  They can take that to heart, and maybe the next day they serve terrible as well because their coach has told them that.
Whereas with I think maybe older players or professionals, it's maybe a little bit easier to be a little bit more direct.
I just think he's probably learnt some things working with juniors.  He's a smart guy, obviously a good coach.
Q. Not gone soft, has he?
ANDY MURRAY: No, not on me anyway (smiling).
Q. (Question regarding Novak.)
ANDY MURRAY: I saw the beginning of the match.  Looked like he served particularly well at the beginning of the match.  Seemed to be hitting the ball well from the back of the court.  Just his serve wasn't so good.
You know, that's normal.  Normally he would have played a little bit more, you know, coming into this.  He's normally done well in Cincinnati, though he's not won there, he's normally got to latter stages.  Obviously with the early exit at the Olympics, he's not played loads of matches for the last three weeks or so.
But he seemed fine.  He was moving good, hitting the ball good from the back of the court.  Just didn't serve so well.  I'm sure that will get better as the tournament goes on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT