U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I think it's fair to say in Indian Wells and Miami you struggled a little bit, but then Monte-Carlo, Madrid, since then, you have been clicking and playing close to as well as you can.  What happened?  What clicked for you?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, I had, after the Australian Open, quite a big change in my life.  Becoming father for the first time, you know, the (indiscernible) best thing that's ever happened to me. (Indiscernible).
I came straight from the Davis Cup against Japan with a tough match with Nishikori and didn't play so well in Indian Wells or Miami and actually didn't start well in Monte-Carlo, either.  There was just one match where I didn't play well against Benoit Paire.  He served for the match in the third set and I managed to turn that around and gained a lot of confidence from that and kicked on from there, really.
You know, won many matches since then.  When you're winning matches, it gives you confidence and just being riding out the last few months.
Q. You had obviously two very big weeks in Rio and Cincinnati.  Can you tell us what you have been doing since then and how you're feeling physically?
ANDY MURRAY: I took two -- a couple of days off, Monday, Tuesday.  I arrived Sunday night from Cincinnati, and Monday/Tuesday completely off.  Then, yeah, it's just been pretty light, light practice.
Trying to get used to the conditions here.  Obviously they are different.  Different balls, as well.  Courts are pretty normally lively here.  Played a lot of matches at night in Cincinnati, and the last one at the Olympics, as well.
And, you know, conditions during the day are quite different, so just trying to get used to that.  Yeah, it's been fairly light.  I haven't done anything away from the court, training, nothing like that.  Just trying to be as fresh as I can at the start of the tournament.
Q. First off, congratulations on your gold medal at the Olympics.  Wondering if you've given much thought to two of your top rivals struggling with wrist injuries:  Novak Djokovic and Rafa Nadal.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, obviously -- I mean, Rafa's wrist injury has kept him out for -- he pulled out of the French; missed Wimbledon, as well.  Novak just missed Cincinnati.  I don't know how he's feeling.  If he's playing here he must be feeling pretty good.
Yeah, I don't know.  Sometimes, you know, when you play a lot of tennis, like Novak has, you can pick up niggles, and sometimes your body does need a break as much as anything.
You know, Rafa's been a bit unfortunate the last couple of years with a number of different issues.  He's had the wrist and a few other health problems, as well.  It's been a tough couple of years for him.
Q. Does that increase the likelihood you'll go to the final and have success because of the struggles they're having?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I don't know.  To be honest, they're both in the top half.  With them having wrist problems doesn't affect my chances of getting to the final.  I wouldn't have to play them in that stage, anyway.
So just have to wait and see.  I think Rafa pretty much proved his fitness in Rio playing, you know, a lot of tennis with winning the doubles and also playing, you know, as many matches as anyone there.  And singles, as well.
And then, yeah, Novak obviously missed Cincinnati, but only a few weeks ago he was playing in Canada, as well.  He's played I think enough matches.  It's just whether he's fully recovered.  We will see that on -- whenever it is he plays.
Q. You were just describing some of the injuries to Rafa and to Novak.  For so many years the big four has dominated the majors.  How would you describe the situation for the big four right now and maybe what you see happening in the next few months and year?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, it's not the first time to be asked about that.  It's happened a few times over the last couple of years.  Obviously went through my back problem where I dropped out of the top 10.
Roger obviously is having some physical issues just now which he's never had before.  I think it's normal.  All of us are getting towards the end of our career, latter stages of our careers.  We have all been kind of, you know, up at the top 10 in the world, me, Novak; Roger and Rafa it's been longer than that.  You know, 15 years for Roger, 16 years, and probably 13 years for Rafa who played, you know, loads of matches.  So it's normal there would be wear and tear on the body and pick up a few more injuries, you know, as you go on in your career.
But I think when everyone is fit and healthy they are capable of winning these major events.  But there is injuries and stuff, and it gives opportunities for other guys to make a break and win the major events.  That's going to happen over the next few years, for sure, because I can't go, you know, forever.
Q. Do you feel like you're in the latter stages of your career?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I'm 29.  I mean, I would imagine if I'm lucky I'd be playing at this level for three, four more years, max, I would think.  I mean, it's not easy to do that.  I hope I'm still playing like this when I'm 38 years old (laughter), but it's pretty unlikely.
So I just need to -- I'm actually using that as a positive that, you know, you have to make the most of every opportunity.  It's a slightly different mentality to maybe when you're younger and like you feel like you have a bit more time on your side.
Want to make the most of every tournament I play in and try and win and achieve as much as I can the next few years.
Q. You're meticulous in your preparation, meticulous in the way you constantly try and strengthen your body.  In light of Novak and Rafa having wrist problems and you employing a double-fisted backhand, do you strengthen your wrists at all?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I had a wrist problem many years ago in Hamburg when I was maybe -- on my 20th birthday I think it happened.
And, yeah, since then I have made sure that I do -- every day in my warmup before every practice I do a few wrist strengthening exercises.  Yeah, so I will be doing that every day before practice and matches for the last eight or nine years because I had that issue when I was young.
Q. What is a wrist strengthening exercise?
ANDY MURRAY: I just use the like -- I don't know.  What do you call it?  Like the bungees, the elastic bands, basically.  And, yeah, it's pretty basic stuff, but I do a few exercises that I do with them.
And, yeah, to be honest, I see a lot of the players doing it.  But sometimes injuries happen even if you're doing it.  You know, you do all the injury prevention you want.  Guys will still get the shoulders, elbows, and wrists, because you're using them so much on the court.  Yeah, try to do them as much as possible.
Q. Yesterday Kei Nishikori described your physical strengths as you reached the finals in Rio  and Masters.  Like Iron Man.  How much do you spend improving your physicality?  Besides just hitting the ball.
ANDY MURRAY: Before Rio and Cincinnati I trained in Mallorca for 10 days.  I took a break after Wimbledon.  It was hard, you know, going from Rio to Cincinnati.  I didn't feel great when I was there.  You know, luckily I won a few, you know, quick matches, and that helped.
But, you know, I was tired in Cincinnati and I was -- you know, I was really pumped that I got to the final and obviously disappointed to lose in the final.  But I was pumped to reach the final.  I didn't expect that the way I arrived from Rio and how I was feeling after that.
But, you know, that's why this week is actually -- it was very important to rest, take time to let your body recover and, is just important to do the training you do away from the court.
That's something that I have learned as I got older; whereas before when I was younger it was different.  I trained sometimes too much maybe and didn't listen to my body enough.  Yeah, it was a good few weeks in Rio and Cincinnati.
Q. You mentioned how amazing it was to become a father.  If it is, how has that changed you both on and off the court?
ANDY MURRAY: Say again?
Q. How has becoming a father changed you?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, tennis isn't the most important thing in my life anymore.  Probably when I was younger and didn't have a family, then it was the most important thing.  You know, I think having that different perspective helps a lot.
Maybe not putting so much pressure on myself and before a match I'm not stressing as much as I used to.
Q. A question about the roof.  The roof has arrived at Arthur Ashe.  I believe it was 2008 when bad weather impacted you.  You had to have the semifinal on a Sunday and Roger had an extra day of rest.  What do you think about the roof?
ANDY MURRAY: I think it's great.  I practiced under the roof the other day.  It does look amazing on center court as well now.  It's very quick too to open and close.  Shouldn't be too many delays.  Shouldn't be too many (indiscernible) either.
Obviously three of the four slams is (indiscernible)  I think for everyone.  For players it's a good thing I think.  For the TV, for the media, fans, obviously.  You know, it works.  It works well for everyone.  I'll bet it doesn't rain this year.  (Laughter.)
Everybody has been asking for one for the last few years, and then spend $500 million on a roof and there is no rain.  We'll see what happens.
Q. Can you talk about Rosol and the other slightly heated match last year?  Is that water under the bridge now?  What do you make of it?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I spoke to him after the match, and (indiscernible - sound quality) last year.  You know, it was fine.  Afterwards I just -- obviously a few things happened when we were on the court.
But, yeah, we spoke after the match and that was it. I have actually gotten along fine with him apart from that day, and he's tough, tough opponent obviously.  Big, strong guy; goes for his shots; takes a lot of risks.  (Indiscernible - sound quality/photographer interference.)






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT