WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 21, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. CILIC/A. Murray
6-4, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously not to be today.  What can you take out of this week especially given how much tennis you've played?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I've very proud of this week.  Obviously today, yeah, didn't go how I would've wanted.
But, yeah, I mean, I certainly didn't expect to get to the final when I arrived here.  Yeah, had some, you know, pretty good wins along the way.  Today, you know, was tough, tricky conditions with the wind first match during the day.
I think if I got off to a better start maybe could have done a bit better.  I had a break point in his first service game and Love-30 in his next service game.  Maybe if I had gotten the lead there maybe would've felt better.
Was pretty much behind from that point on and made it tough.  But, you know, very, very positive week.  Yeah, looking forward to a few days' rest now.
Q. Some people say this may be the peak of your career in terms of how you're playing.  Do you feel that way?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think so.  I think I played my best tennis just now.  Definitely really this year I had tough losses around Indian Wells/Miami time, and then obviously switched -- well, just stopped working with Amélie too around that period.
You know, really after Miami, I mean, the last four, five months have been -- it's not even close to anything else I had done before.  It was way, way better.  Seven finals in a row, you know.  Won obviously Wimbledon again, the Olympics.
Yeah, I still feel like there are some things I can improve upon.  Yeah, it's been really good.
Q. You just said when you came here you didn't expect to reach the final.  So at any point during this tournament did you consider about pulling out from the tournament?
ANDY MURRAY: After the first match I played and was having the problems with my shoulder I did speak about it with my team, but my physio was pretty confident that it was just an overuse sort of fatigue problem, and that I didn't have any sort of the structural damage or an tear or anything in my shoulder.
We discussed that, but then when it was sort of said I wasn't going to make it worse by playing.  Maybe just sore for a few days, but then I get a few days' rest when I'm done, then it was like, Right, well let's go for it week.  Let's try and get through as many matches as we can, try and do as best as we can, and I did that.
Like I said, really didn't expect to be here.  Obviously disappointing when you get to the final not to win, but, you know, it was a very, very positive week considering everything.
Q. What was the discussion with Fergus?  Was it to do with buffering of the wind with the microphone?  More importantly, how excited are you now looking ahead to the US Open?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I'm pumped for the US Open now.  First I get to see my family tomorrow which I'm looking forward to.  I haven't seen them for three weeks, which has been hard.  That's the longest I've not seen them for since baby was born.
So I'm looking forward to seeing them tomorrow.  Get a couple days off, so I'll spend time with them which will be nice.
Then, yeah, really looking forward to New York.  Feeling very positive just now about my game and my body.  Mentally I feel in a good place just now.  So I'm looking forward to New York for sure.
Then, yeah, on the court I was just asking because I was waiting to serve and there was a decent amount of noise and I just asked if it was the microphone that was making noise, which he said it was.  I just asked if he could turn it off, which he said he couldn't.  That was it.
Q. This was the first time somebody born after Novak, who's a week younger than you, has ever won a Masters title.  What makes it so hard for guys to break through in Masters Series?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I don't know actually.  Not sure.  I mean, obviously a lot of the top guys have been in the latter stages of the Masters Series, and often to win them you have to win against a couple of them, which is not easy.
Even this week when Novak wasn't here; Roger is injured; Rafa was obviously struggling; I wasn't feeling great this week either, but still closish to doing it.
I don't know why that's been the case in the Masters Series.  I would've thought that more likely that it would happen at Masters than at a slam.
But, yeah, just goes to show the consistency of the top players over the last ten years or so has been phenomenal.
Q. (Question regarding Nicola Adams.)
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I didn't get to see it unfortunately.  I mean, I read about it.  Seemed like the final was pretty close.  She deserved to win from what I read.
Then actually I saw the men's super heavyweight final today actually before I went on the court, which was close and could have gone either way.
But, yeah, it was great that she defended the title.  I met her a couple times, and I also chatted to her a little bit in Rio as well.  She's unbelievably nice and good fun, smiley, really chatty, and very humble.
Then when she's in the ring, I wouldn't like to be in there with her, that's for sure.  But very different away from it.  Very nice.  So I'm very happy that she won.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT