WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 20, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/B. Tomic
6-4, 6-4
Q. You've got Bernie's number.  What is it about playing against him?  You record is 12 out of 12 sets.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, look, I don't know.  I've played obviously some good matches against him, but tonight maybe wasn't the best tennis we both played.
When the important moments came I felt like I served well when I was behind, and then as soon as I had my chance on my serve I capitalized on them.
That was the difference.  I just played the bigger points better tonight.
Q. Were you struggling out there physically with the back?
ANDY MURRAY: At the beginning of the match a little bit, yeah.  Just stiff a bit.
But I knew coming into the event that was going to be the case.  I spoke in the interview before I knew coming here I wasn't going to feel perfect.
Just try to accept that, work through it, and then I know I have a few days' break at the end of the tournament to rest up and get ready for New York.
Q. So it's not an issue of major concern for you?
ANDY MURRAY: No, I think it's just fatigue really.  I have played a lot of the matches in a short space of time, and also been a change of surface as well coming to the hard.
You know, does put a little bit more sort of stress on the joints and stuff, the hard courts.
Yeah, just accepting it for what it is.  I'll be fine.  I just need to work through it and accept it.
Q. Milos in the semis now.  You've seen a lot of him this year.  What are your thoughts?  Again, you've got a pretty commanding record over him.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, tough match obviously.  We played some important matches this year in Australia in the semis and then the Wimbledon final; Queen's final as well.
Yeah, again, it's been tight, but just managed to play a little bit better in the important moments, which is - especially playing against a big server - very important.  You don't get loads of chances.  Hopefully I will do that again tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT