ROLEX SHANGHAI MASTERS
October 7, 2019
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. MURRAY/J. Londero   
2-6, 6-2, 6-3   
 Q.  How did it feel out there?  
ANDY MURRAY: It was tough. I mean, the court is by far the fastest conditions that I have played in since I came back. You know, I really struggled with that early on.   
I was mistiming the ball. I felt quite slow on the court, and he was pretty much dictating all of the points. I managed kind of early on in the second set to start putting a bit more on my ball, going for my shots a little bit more, and, yeah, just trying to hit through the court a bit more, get him on the defensive, which I did pretty well.   
But I found it tough early on, because the conditions are very, very different to the last couple of weeks.   
 Q.  I know you haven't played many Masters tournaments since May 2017, but that's your first win at a Masters since then. Do you think that's just another sign that the comeback is coming along nicely?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I think each week I have been feeling good, more better. I mean, in the beginning I didn't necessarily feel good. But last couple of weeks have been I think much improved.   
My movement overall has been very good in comparison to what it was over in the States, and I'm hoping that's something that can get a little bit better.   
But, yeah, each week I feel like I'm making progress just now. Yeah, that's obviously positive. I mean, yeah, I mean, I don't know like if winning a first round in a Masters Series or whatever means that that was better than last week, but, you know, every win just now is important for me.   
 Q.  What's the hardest thing about making a comeback from injury? What's the hardest thing to get back and what's the first thing to go?  
ANDY MURRAY: I'd say recovering from matches. You know, the beginning for me was more, with this comeback, was just being confident, like, moving and changing direction on my hip playing singles. That was difficult at the beginning.   
But once I sort of got over that and then like the last few weeks was winning some matches, having to come back and play the next day and stuff, you know, is difficult, because it's not just -- you know, I really haven't played much the last couple of years, and, you know, for a period I was playing lots of matches, competing, you know, towards the latter stages of most of the tournaments, so your body adjusts and gets used to kind of the load that it's under.   
You know, that obviously hasn't been the case for me for quite a while. These last few weeks, like I say, because I have had to do that and I have played more matches, it's starting to get a little bit more used to starting to compete at this level again.   
 Q.  Are you a little more patient with yourself, more appreciative of yourself now since you have come back?  
ANDY MURRAY: No (smiling). I would like to be, but unfortunately, that hasn't changed.   
 Q.  Do you feel different before and after your injuries? And any special feelings towards tennis now?  
ANDY MURRAY: I feel very different, yeah. I have no pain in my hip. It makes a huge, huge difference to everything. Not just my tennis but everything away from the court, as well.   
You know, before, my whole life was pretty much -- well, I was just consumed by this pain in my hip. It was like every minute of the day, it was very, very tiring. I found it really hard towards the end before I had the operation, and now, obviously, you know, I'm able to play. I'm able to do lots of different things.   
It was a big, big change for me, and I'm really happy. I wish I had had the surgery sooner, but I'm very happy I'm in this position now.   
 Q.  Fabio tomorrow. Do you want to talk a little bit about that match?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think he's had a really, really good year. I think it's probably -- I don't know if it's his best but certainly up there with one of his best. I think he's still got an outside shot of getting to London.   
I think he's probably pretty motivated just now. He played a good match today. I have always, you know, had tough matches with him. He's not an easy guy to play against. Unbelievably talented guy. Good hand skills. Moves well. A little bit up and down sometimes in his matches, but he's playing really well.   
 Q.  Kyle lost his British No. 1 status today with another defeat. I don't know, that's probably something we attach more importance to, the British No. 1 thing than maybe we should in the press, but do you have any advice for him? He's gone through a tough period just now, six losses in a row.  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, look, I haven't spoken to him that much about it. I mean, I don't know if being British No. 1 is important to him or not. It's not something that I have discussed with him. You know, each to their own with that, but I don't know if that makes any difference to him psychologically or not.   
But, yeah, he's obviously been going through a tough time just now. He did have some physical issues I know earlier on in the year with his knee. I think he's been feeling a bit better physically recently, but obviously this year has been a little bit stop/start for him and it's tough. I mean, tennis is a hard sport.   
You know, when you start losing matches, and, you know, you're playing at this level, it's difficult. You know, the only way to sort of turn it around is to keep getting yourself out there and competing and training hard and practicing the right things.   
It will turn around for him, because he's a really, really good player, and, you know, he has a big game. So I'm sure he'll turn it around, but, you know, that only comes with getting yourself out there and working hard.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT