WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 17, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/J. Monaco
6-3, 6-2
Q. After the trip across, how do you feel starting over here?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was tough.  I mean, obviously really humid here.  Slightly different -- well, quite different conditions to Rio with the balls, and the court here is pretty fast.  Rio was a lot slower than this.
Took a bit of time to get into it, but did all right.
Q. Did you leave at about 3:00 a.m. out of Rio?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, 3:00 a.m.  Yeah.
Q. Got here when?
ANDY MURRAY: We got here about -- into Cincinnati about 5:00 p.m. on Monday.
Q. How much time have you had on the courts?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I did two short sessions yesterday and two short sessions today.  I sometimes find that rather than doing one long session, if you're going into new conditions, it's a bit easier to do a couple of shorter sessions.
I feel like I get my timing a bit better like that, so I hit like an hour total today before the match, and then yesterday about an hour, 45.
Q. Kevin Anderson I believe next.  Thoughts there.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, tough match.  He obviously serves big.  I think he quite likes these conditions.  Obviously coming back from some injury problems this year but is starting to play better.
Yeah, will be a tough one.
Q. Do you have to have a certain amount of sleep every night?
ANDY MURRAY: I think it helps, yeah, for athletes.  It's just more for recovery I think more than anything.  It's not like if I sleep badly I can't play, but physically you feel better if you get eight, nine hours sleep rather than four or five.
On Monday we when arrived here I didn't sleep much on the plane, so struggled a bit on Monday; had a decent night's sleep Monday night; felt better Tuesday; and then good night sleep again.  I slept during the day today as well, so I was feeling a little better.
Q. You had a little tightness in the shoulder there and had to call for the trainer.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think it's different balls here, so that's something that's not easy for tennis players.  You have to be careful with that, because it totally changes how it feels on the racquet.  Obviously that would change how it feels through your body as well.
Obviously on the serve, the shoulder feels it quite a lot.  Some guys get problems with their wrist with ball changes.  For me sometimes it's my shoulder.
Hopefully that gets better as the week goes on.
Q. You did a pretty good job then.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, after the start.  I served better in the second set.  Just the start was a bit sore.  I played obviously a lot of tennis, but also, yeah, the ball change.  I mean, in most other sports you play kind of with the same stuff every single week.
For us it changes all the time.  We play Wilson US Open -- Aussie Open balls in Rio; here is Penn; next week is Wilson US Open.  It's not ideal.
Q. You're a guy who relies a lot on interacting with your team while you're on the court.  A, were you always that way?  B, if that was taken away and you couldn't look at them, do you think it would affect your tennis?
ANDY MURRAY: I don't think it would make much difference.  I mean, I've played matches when they haven't sat in the box.  When I was younger as well I didn't always have my team with me either.  I don't think it makes a big difference.
I think a lot of people read a lot into it, more than necessary.  I don't think it makes a huge difference.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT