WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/J. Millman
  6‑3, 7‑5, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. How difficult was it with the rain breaks? Were you surprised the roof wasn't on from the start?
ANDY MURRAY: No, not really, because it's an outdoor tournament, so they need to try to play the matches outdoors. 
Obviously we went out the first time, then came back for a couple points. Yeah, it's a little bit frustrating. Makes it a bit sort of stop‑starty. We obviously didn't get a warmup after that. 
But, yeah, I mean, it wasn't too bad. It's been a lot worse for the other players. 

Q. Did you get a sense of where your game's at, especially in the second set there? Now that you're three matches in, are you where you want to be?
ANDY MURRAY: I think I'm playing well. You know, some of the tennis I played at the end of the matches, in particular the last two matches, in the third sets of both of those matches, have been very good. 
Today I went through, you know, a tough sort of 15‑, 20‑minute period in that second set and came through it well. There were a lot of long rallies and tough games. Managed to tough it out and won that set. 
Yeah, I played some good stuff in those tough moments. I mean, there hasn't been too many, but today I dealt with it well.

Q. What were your thoughts as you saw the Querrey‑Djokovic result unfold? Are you surprised that Sam was able to get that win?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, yesterday I literally saw like five or six points of the match, so I don't obviously exactly know what happened out there. But when Sam's serving well, you know, he's very difficult to beat, especially on a grass court. 
The run that Novak has had has been incredible, so everyone expects him to win every match. But, you know, history suggests that that's not going to happen. There's going to be a match, you know, where maybe you don't play your best, and your opponent plays great tennis. 
I'm not sure if that's what happened today. I would imagine Sam played and served extremely well to win that. 
Yeah, but rather than it being sort of a surprise, it should really be sort of almost celebrated now, what he's actually done. I mean, it's incredible. 
He broke a number of records, winning all four slams, what was it, 30 consecutive Grand Slam matches. It's amazing. Yeah, obviously I would imagine today he'd be disappointed and stuff. But, you know, looking back, it's been probably the best 12 months in tennis for years. 

Q. (Question regarding the bookies.) Does that make any difference to you at all, the fact that you may be more expected to win than you would have been 12 hours ago?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, it doesn't because, you know, if I was to reach the final, then it may have some bearing really, but it doesn't right now. My draw's still exactly the same. The matches, in the next round especially, are tough. Nick and Feli are both very, very good grass court players. 
The bookies don't always get it right. They made a few mistakes over the last few weeks across a number of different things. 
You know, your job is to go out there and try to win the matches that are there in front of you. That's what I'll try and do. 

Q. When you learnt that Novak had lost, did that intrude at all on your concentration on the match at hand?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, yeah, I mean, obviously if you see a result or hear, you know, the fans, then you think about it. That's natural. That's what everyone does. You don't just not see what's going on. Like, yeah, you think about it. 
But it wasn't something that was going through my mind for more than 10, 15 seconds whilst I was sitting at a change of ends. Then, yeah, you get on with it. 
Like I said, what happened to Novak is irrelevant to me. It's today's match. I need to win my match today, and did a good job of that. 

Q. I don't know how well you know Sam off court, but are you surprised he was the one to end the streak? He hasn't had any big slam wins to speak of before in his career. 
ANDY MURRAY: What was the start of the question? 

Q. Are you surprised that Sam was the guy to end the streak? He's a 28‑year‑old that doesn't have a big history in slams. 
ANDY MURRAY: The thing is, on the grass courts, for me also, and Novak here last year against Kevin Anderson, who is also a big server, hadn't beaten any of the top players at slams before, he was very close with Novak here. I think it was 7‑5 in the fifth, two sets to love up, then obviously beat me at the US Open. 
Often the matches against the big servers do come down to a few points. If you aren't feeling great, aren't hitting the ball well, aren't comfortable, that builds pressure. 
I'm just assuming that Sam served extremely well. For him to win the match, I would see him having to do that. If he served very well, then I can see that. The tiebreak in the fourth set, for example, every point on your serve becomes more pressure, you feel it more. 
Yeah, I mean, obviously it's a surprise and a huge win for Sam. But, you know, the big servers, when they serve well, they're very difficult to play against. 

Q. If it is Nick that you play next, I know you're friends with him, and there have been a few negative headlines around him. 
ANDY MURRAY: You guys try and wind him up the whole time. Every time he's in here you're trying to wind him up the whole time. It's not really fair on him, to be honest.

Q. That's my question. Do you think it's not fair he's being targeted?
ANDY MURRAY: When he makes a mistake, yeah, it's fine. I don't have a problem reporting on him making a mistake or doing something wrong. 
But, you know, it happens a lot where it doesn't seem like he's really done much in comparison to what other players are doing, and he's the one that gets asked all the questions about it. 
Obviously I'm sure over time he'll start to do better and understand better how to deal with all of the attention and the questions and stuff. But, you know, sometimes he hasn't done loads wrong, and he's got a rough ride. 
But he has made some mistakes in the past, as well. 

Q. Novak confirmed he's not going to play in the Davis Cup tie. Does that influence your decision either way? It could be a less stressful tie you wanted to play or maybe you want to delegate to the other British guys playing well as you prepare for Rio?
ANDY MURRAY: No, my plan is to play. But, yeah, also need to see how things go at the end of this event. You know, it has been a long few months for me already. I played more matches in these last few months in this period than I ever have in my career. 
I need to just assess how I'm feeling at the end of the event, and hopefully I can go a long way here. That's what my target is. Then hopefully I pull up fine from the grass season. 
But I'm not basing sort of my decision on Novak. I want to play in the tie. If I'm physically fit, I'll be there. 

Q. You were talking about Nick a minute ago. Obviously we don't know who will win that match. Could you just look at each of those guys, how your game matches up with them, the issues. 
ANDY MURRAY: Obviously quite different players. Feli serve‑volleys a lot, uses a lot of slice. He's obviously a lefty. Comes to the net loads. Plays with a decent amount of spin on his forehand. Is one of the better servers. He serves very well. Both of them are actually. But I've always played quite well against him in the past. 
Nick, again, extremely good server. Doesn't play with as much sort of slice, and doesn't come forward as much as Feli, but is a bit more dangerous probably from the back of the court. Is improving all of the time. He likes the big courts, the big matches. Has performed well in those situations before. 
Tricky whoever it is. 

Q. Several players have said this week that they save the Wimbledon towels for friends and family. What do you do with Wimbledon towels?
ANDY MURRAY: I actually just gave one to my fitness trainer just now. I actually got a couple today, not intentionally. But when it rains, you run straight off the court and put the towels in there. 
My wife always asks for one at all of the tournaments I go to. Got one for her in the first round. Gave one to my physio. I normally take one each day and give it to someone on my team.

Q. Why do you think they're so popular?
ANDY MURRAY: I don't know, to be honest. I don't know. I don't keep them. But my wife likes them, so... I don't know. 
I think they're quite good‑quality towels, but I don't know why everyone takes them (smiling). 

Q. Could I get your thoughts on Leon Smith's appointment as performance director at Tennis Scotland? Maybe a step forward for Scottish tennis. 
ANDY MURRAY: I saw that. I don't quite exactly know what he'll be doing. But the more involvement he has in tennis in Scotland, the better. I mean, he's obviously very passionate about the game. From when he would have last worked for Tennis Scotland, he's gained a lot more experience and the more time he spends with youngsters, everything he's done these past five or six years, will be more beneficial for those kids now that he helps. 
In Scotland, in the UK in general, we don't have loads of coaches that have had the success that Leon has. So to get him back involved is really good. 

Q. Could you say a brief word about your opponent today. At the end of the second set, you played that very long game, his service game, you both suddenly hit form at the same time. He gave you a good workout there. Does that put you in good stead for future rounds?
ANDY MURRAY: He's a very fit guy. I just talked about it before the match. He has a great attitude. He doesn't give you many free points, very few unforced errors. Yeah, when he gets into a rhythm, he's tough to play because he makes you work every single point. If you're making a few errors, not feeling quite so comfortable, he certainly doesn't give you anything for free. 
I had to work extremely hard in that period of the match. Yeah, I prepared for that, though. I expected that. I knew that the match would be like that. Yeah, he's a tough guy. Very, very hard worker and extremely fit. 
In those moments sometimes if you play like five, six really long points in a row, sometimes you get a couple free points. With him, it doesn't really work like that. He just keeps going. He's tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT