MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/T. Berdych
6-3, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Congratulations on another quick victory.  Tell us how it went from your perspective today.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, obviously from my side it was obviously a good match.  Again, no break points against me.  It was different conditions playing under the roof.  Adjusted to them well.
That was, yeah, the most pleasing thing for me.  Only played maybe three or four indoor clay matches in my life.
Not easy conditions against a tough opponent and I played well.
Q. In the past against Berdych it was much more complicated than this.  Have you changed anything tactically?  It's four wins in a row against him.
ANDY MURRAY: I think I've obviously made improvements in my game.  Yeah, last few times I've played against I'm him I've played good matches.  I've been motivated.
We played a bunch also when we were much younger.  He's a huge, huge guy, big, strong guy.  Before his power was giving me trouble, especially when I was young.
We also played once at the French Open in very heavy conditions.  It was very wet and I wasn't able to get the ball going through the court and he was generating a lot more power than me.
Yeah, but now I'm a bit older, physically stronger, and been able to cope better.
Q. In the last couple of matches against him you've been a lot more aggressive.  Today seemed a lot more controlled and a lot more variety.  Was that just because of the conditions, playing indoor here and the change in the sort of conditions on the clay?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, you have to make adjustments every time you play.  If you play the same way against people all the time they know what to expect.
Obviously after last few matches we played I'm sure they would've looked at those matches and seen things that I was doing.  I also know what I was doing in those matches too, so I made some quite big adjustments that obviously helped.
On a clay court it's different obviously to playing on the hard courts.  You have to use a little bit more variety.  When you're defending, you need to give yourself time to get back into position.  If you just hit the ball big, that doesn't work on the clay all of the time.
You need to be a little bit more patient, a little bit smarter when you're defending, and tried to do that today.
Q. You could potentially play Rafa tomorrow.  Anything from last year's final that you can take on board and use tomorrow, or is he playing a completely different level the past few weeks than what he was last year?
ANDY MURRAY: I think he's definitely playing better for sure.  I also think I'm playing better now than I was at this time last year.  You know, you have to keep improving.  There are things in my game that are much better just now than at this stage last year.
Yeah, you have to learn in every match you play against the best prayers.  If you don't, it's kind of pointless really going on the court.  When you get to semis or finals of slams you want to go on the court with a very clear game plan and sort of understanding of things that work against him.
If he obviously wins, then need to learn from the match I played against him, and hopefully put in a good performance again tomorrow.
Q. Any special things you can take out of Monte-Carlo match?  It's a more recent one.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I think -- it really depends a little bit on the conditions.  It is pretty different here to Monte-Carlo.  And then from what I've seen, it's supposed to rain the next few days, and playing indoors changes things a bit.
Yeah, I'll look at the matches I've played against him.  Sometimes it's more relevant watching matches from the week.  So like I just got asked on the TV there if I'll watch the matches that I played on clay against Berdych in the past.  I said, No, I watched the matches that he's been playing this week to see what he's doing this week.  Players change a lot in three years.  They don't stay the same.
So, yeah, watched some of his matches from here and try and learn some things.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT