MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 28, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. DIMITROV/A. Murray
6-7, 6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Hi, Andy.  Obviously the tiebreaker, back and forth for a while.  Can you just tell us what happened from that point on?  What do you think the difference was in the last two sets?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, a lot of unforced errors in the third set for sure.  Obviously didn't start the second set particularly well.  After winning a close first set you obviously want to try and put your opponent under pressure.
I think I lost my first two service games to love, so that wasn't very good.  In then the third set managed to get up a break and then a lot of unforced errors.  Credit to him.  He was more solid than me.
Q. How were you coping physically towards the end?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, physically it was okay.  I mean, the conditions were actually not that bad today.  It was just humid.  Obviously the cloud cover helped.  It was just very, very humid.
Physically I was okay.
Q. This is obviously two early-round losses for you.  Just talk about the fact that coming back from Australia and having your baby and everything and having two losses like that early on, frustrating?  Kind of expect there would be a little bit of rust in your first two tournaments?
ANDY MURRAY: I didn't really know what to expect exactly.  Maybe expected Indian Wells to be tricky coming off the Davis Cup and a big change in conditions, but here I had a long time to prepare.  You know, I practiced pretty well.
Yeah, so I think Indian Wells maybe understandable; here, not so much.  Grigor is obviously a very good player, but I also had opportunities in this match.  I was up a break in the third; same things in Indian Wells as well.
Then lost a run of games in both matches.  So need to look at that and see where I go from there.
Q. This has been one of the stranger first weeks of this type of tournament - Roger withdrawing; Rafa retiring.  You ever seen anything like this in this type of tournament?
ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I'm sure it's happened before.  It's not happened often though, that's for sure, over the last 8 to 10 years with the players that have been around.  They're extremely consistent players as well.
Yeah, I mean, it will have happened, but not often.  Yeah, I'm not sure exactly why that is.  Sometimes if it's extremely windy conditions, you know, that can be more of a leveler, but the conditions the last few days have actually been really, really nice.  It's been hot and humid, but good conditions for tennis.
So, yeah, don't know why that is.
Q. We've had a lot of years of stability and relative stability in tennis, the big four at the top, this kind of thing.  Is it possible that we're looking at a year when things go a little bit topsy-turvey?  Even on the women's side the way Serena seems to be struggling and now you've got Roger at 34's; he's had surgery.  Rafa is struggling.  Could we maybe be looking at the a year that is going to be a little bit crazy?
ANDY MURRAY: I don't know.  I guess the first slam of the year was -- I mean, Serena obviously losing the final was a surprise, but Roger obviously in the semi and I played Novak there in the final as well.
I don't know.  I guess it's possible, but I think over the last couple years there's been sort of periods like this.  It hasn't sort of turned out that way.  I hope it's not the case for my sake.
Yeah, I think need a little bit more evidence than one or two weeks to suggest that.
Q. We've been used to, Andy, the last few years you being so comfortable and consistent at this event.  Can you put your finger on why that doesn't appear to have been the case this year?
ANDY MURRAY: No.  Like I said at the start, I don't know exactly why.  I made many more mistakes than usual, especially in the third set, so that was surprising for me.
But, again, I got myself in a winning position, so it's not like I came out and played like awful stuff the whole match.   Just when you get in winning positions you need to put your foot down.  The last two tournaments I certainly haven't done that.
And in the Davis Cup as well to a certain extent.  Against Kei I had a couple sets obviously, and then got extremely close in the fifth.
Q. Were you trying to adjust a little bit during the match as things weren't working for you, like on the fly?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, yeah.  I mean, obviously during the match you change certain things and play different shots.  In all matches you go in with a game plan, but you don't know what your opponent is going to do.  They can do something different to what you expect, so you have to make adjustments there.
But, again, I got myself up 3-1 in the third set, which is a good position to be in, and then the mistakes started creeping in.  That's nothing to do with adjustments.  A lot were unforced errors and just poor mistakes.
Q. Dimitrov is kind of in the position you were at earlier in your career:  hasn't been able to win a major.  Do you think he has the qualities to break through to eventually win that first major?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, yeah, it's possible for sure.  He's performed well in a few slams and had deep runs and had big wins as well.
But it's not an easy thing to do.  I know that myself.  And the group of guys that are coming up behind are really, really good players as well.  It depends a little bit how they develop, too.
A lot of them are huge guys, big guys with big games and move well.  Certainly possible that he wins a slam, but nothing is a given in this sport.  I know that.  I have a lot of experience in that.  You just have to wait and see.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT