AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/D. Ferrer
6-3, 6-7, 6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. How much of a difference did it make there when the roof closed?
ANDY MURRAY: I think it changed things a little bit.  Obviously, you know, I had chances in the second set.  Obviously at 4-All I had 15-40 in that game, and then a couple shots in the tiebreak that I could have done better with.
You know, when the roof closed, I was obviously up a break in the third and was feeling good.  That first game after the delay was a very important.  I saved a couple of break points, but then actually played a good game.  So it was nice to get through that game.
Then I felt like started to play better as the match went on.
Q. When you saw Ferrer get a bit annoyed about the roof -- because it wasn't raining when the roof actually closed, was it?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah.
Q. What were your thoughts when you saw him get a little bit overexcited?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, personally, I wanted to serve the next game and try and get through another service game.  It's not easy for either player to stop at that stage, but I think obviously I played him indoors pretty recently, twice, in Paris and at the O2, and won.
For him, I don't know if he was thinking it was a disadvantage maybe, possibly, at that stage.  But it's not easy for either player going from indoors to outdoors.
You know, I think the quality of tennis went up when we went indoors, in my opinion.  Better rallies.  It was tricky conditions outdoors today.  Pretty windy out there and not a consistent breeze.  So a lot of unforced errors.
Q. You seemed to grab your leg a couple times.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it was pretty physical match.  You know, at times you feel pretty tired.  I wasn't actually prepared for it to be that hot.  We thought that we were going to be playing indoors today.  We were told it was 90% certain we would start indoors.
Yeah, then obviously it was extremely hot the second set.  End of the second set especially there was a lot of long rallies, long games, and physically was tiring.
Once I got through that, yeah, kind of initial sort of fatigue, I started to feel a bit better.
Q. How much contact have you had with Jo Konta here and what do you make of what she's achieved so far?
ANDY MURRAY: I've seen her not much.  I've seen her a couple of times.  But, yeah, I mean, she's done incredible.  I mean, I spoke a bit about it the other day, but another very comfortable and solid win today.  Not easy either.
You know, she was probably expected to win that one.  Like I said, on the court afterwards, she created that opportunity.  It's not like it was lucky that she was playing someone 140 in the quarters.  She created that chance by beating the seeds in her bit, and she deserves to be where she is.
Obviously tough match in the semis, but great to be in that position.  She's playing that level, in my opinion.  Everything from the end of last year would suggest that she'll be very competitive in that match.
Kerber will be nervous, too.  I don't know if she's played in the semis of slam before.
Q. Twice.
ANDY MURRAY: But, you know, it's going to be -- never been to a final, so be a tough but interesting match.
Q. You mentioned it a little bit courtside there, but did you ever think as you were coming through you would see a day in a Grand Slam where three British competitors in three disciplines?
ANDY MURRAY: I mean, probably not.  I mean, it's not something I thought about really, to be honest.
But maybe Laura Robson -- what's happened with Jo I think has come as a surprise to everyone.  The rise she's made over the last nine or ten months has been fantastic.
Yeah, maybe when I think Laura Robson made second week of Wimbledon once, made the fourth round, and had an opportunity there that you start thinking that it's possible.
But, yeah, I mean, it's pretty good for us to have people competing in almost all of the competitions.  Unfortunately Jamie lost in the mixed today, but Gordon Reid had a great win as well today against the No. 1 in the world who they told me has only lost like once here in the last ten years.
So, yeah, it's been a good Australian Open so far.  Hopefully we can keep it going.
Q. On a similar theme, Andy, there is a possible Scottish (indiscernible) in there:  Yourself in singles, Jamie in doubles, Gordon Reid in the wheelchairs.  Not too bad for a country with not great facilities.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think it as well shows that anything is possible having the right people around you and the right attitude and the right work ethic.
Yeah, I mean, like I just said, it's been a great tournament so far, and hopefully we can all keep going.  You know, it's unlikely that everyone is going to win the events, but to be in this position is great.
It's really, really good for tennis on the back of the end of last year with the Davis Cup as well.  Extremely positive.  Just got to try and capitalize on it.
Q. You play the winner of Monfils and Raonic.  Thoughts on playing either of them?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it's almost completely different sorts of players.  Raonic is a big server and tries to play short points.
Monfils kind of the opposite.  Great athlete; really good mover; very natural the way that he plays the game.  Yeah, he's a great athlete.
So both guys are obviously playing well to be there.
Milos started this year extremely well.  Gaël has probably been in this position a few more times.  Maybe slightly more experienced.
So both guys will be tough in different ways.
Q. Thoughts on just the year Milos has had so far.
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, like I said, it's been a very good start to the year.  We're only a couple of tournaments in and it's a long, long year.  He was unfortunate last year with some injuries.  Had a few physical issues.  I played him in Madrid and he was struggling a little bit there.
Then I think he had the surgery on his foot and missed the French and maybe Wimbledon as well.  He's obviously fit and healthy now and playing well.
Q. Djokovic and Federer tomorrow.  What do you think are the keys for the win for one and the other?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, Roger has obviously played very well so far this event.  He will obviously look to play aggressive.  I think like the last match they played in the US Open both went in playing very good tennis.  Roger had chances in that match and didn't capitalize on the break points that he had.
That was obviously one of the main reasons why Novak won the match.  He played very well under pressure.  That'll be important again tomorrow.  Roger tends to put pressure on whoever it is he's playing against.  You have to be able to deal with that.
Novak, over the last - well obviously last year handled it extremely well.  I mean, I imagine it will be a great match.  They always play very, very good tennis against each other.  It'll be fun.
Q. Fourth semi now in five slams.  Do you take a some sort of satisfaction from that consistency, or all about winning the titles for you?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, you want to try to get to the latter stages to give yourself opportunities.  Obviously I want to win these events.  That's why I'm still playing.  After a tough year in 2014, I think I'm now sort of established again at the top of the game and giving myself chances.
That's all I can keep doing.  And working hard.  Yeah, I mean, obviously to matches away potentially here.  Yeah, give it my best the next few days.
Q. With regards to the review that was announces today into the anti-corruption unit, do you think this was a necessary step to show the sports governing bodies are serious about tackling this issue?
ANDY MURRAY: I didn't see it or heard anything about this.  I don't know what's happened today.
Q. Going to be an independent review of the Tennis Integrity Unit by an outside individual who's a sports law expert.
ANDY MURRAY: Okay.  Yeah, that's positive.  Surely.  I think in these situations I think people become skeptical when it's sort of kept in-house a little bit.
So getting someone independent to look into it is positive for sure.
Q. How well do you think you're playing now that you're getting to the business end?  How happy are you with your game?
ANDY MURRAY: I think I played well today.  I think today was probably the best match I played, especially in the second and third set.  I started hitting the ball better from the back of the court.
Start of the tournament was good.  Obviously last few days have been tough and maybe hadn't played my best tennis and managed to get through.
Today I felt like at the end of the match I was playing some good stuff, moving well.  Few things I could still do better for sure, but not easy circumstances today either with the changing of the conditions and warmup for the match indoors then start the match outdoors and then changing back to indoors.
You know, not that easy.  Handled it fairly well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT