AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2016
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You get to play one of the younger up-and-comers, Zverev.  Can you tell us what you think about your first-round opponent.  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I know him reasonably well.  I practiced with him for the first time a couple years ago.  I've seen him play a few matches since then.  Obviously getting to play him a couple of weeks ago was good.  I also practiced with him a couple of times during the week in Perth, too.   
He's a big guy obviously for his age.  Of the young guys coming through, by far the tallest of them, which has obviously benefits.  At the age he's at just now can cause a few issues, as well, until you kind of fill out into your physique.   
But he's got a very good game.  He serves well.  For a big guy, moves pretty well, too.  Yeah, he's obviously improving all the time.  He finished last year well, too.  I think made the semis of the tournament in Stockholm.   
Yeah, it will be a tough match.   
 Q.  You had a short off-season.  Has it been challenging for your preparation?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, I've spoken about it a bit towards the end of last year, that my off-season was going to be in February after the tournament, really.  I took a bit of a break after the Davis Cup.  I had about a week, 10 days, then obviously went off to train in Dubai.  A few days off over Christmas, then over here.   
Yeah, after I'm finished here, I'm going to be at home for four or five weeks.  I'll take some time to rest and recover after I'm finished here.   
 Q.  Do you feel prepared for this tournament despite this?  
ANDY MURRAY: Well, it has been different, that's for sure.  I've never finished the season this late.  So had to make some changes to what I did in December.  I didn't go over to Miami, which is the first time in a long time.  I went over to Dubai and then came over here earlier than I had ever done before.  So I made some changes.   
I feel prepared, but it's just been different preparation than what I'm used to.   
 Q.  Is it at all harder to keep your focus with a baby coming soon?  Is your mind at all elsewhere?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think most days I think about that.  Just now it's a big change, you know, coming.  It's very, very exciting.  I'm sure everyone that's had their first child in here would have thought the same thing with just a few weeks to go.   
Again, I've never been in this position, so it's something new for me to deal with and handle, which is good.  New experiences are always good, something to learn from.   
But, yeah, when I'm on the practice court and stuff, I'm very focused there.  When I've been training, not distracted on that side of things.  Just obviously after your practices and when you're away from the court, it's a bit different.   
 Q.  You're on record as saying if Kim goes into labor, you'll go straight home.  What if that is between the semifinal and final?  
ANDY MURRAY: The same thing would happen.   
 Q.  Even if the tournament would be without a final then?  
ANDY MURRAY: For me, my child is more important to me, and my wife is more important to me than a tennis match, yeah.   
 Q.  How good is it to have Amélie back by your side for a Grand Slam?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's great.  We got to spend the time in Dubai, which was good.  So that was, well, a week there.  Because we got to the Hopman Cup, like, five, six days beforehand, we've been now almost three weeks, two and a half weeks together.   
You know, it was good.  We have a good relationship.  Obviously when you do spend like four, five months away from anyone that you're working with, it takes a little bit of time to get back into things.  It's good that we got to spend quite a lot of time together, close to a month of practicing, preparation.   
So, yeah, I'm happy she's back with me.   
 Q.  How gratifying is it to see Kyle and Evo doing so well?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, Kyle has been improving all the time.  He had probably about 18 months or so ago when he was making a few coaching changes and stuff, he had a tricky few months.  Since then he's just been getting better all the time.  Every time I practice with him, see him playing matches or anything, he's just, yeah, consistently making improvements to his game.   
He's got a new coach with him now who, you know, I spent a bit of time with them in Dubai.  He's pushing him and working him hard which I think is very important for Kyle after the Davis Cup.  He played some, I thought, great tennis there.  You know, just physically needed to get a bit stronger.  I think he's learnt from that.  You know, he seems to be playing very, very well to start the year, which is great.   
Yeah, with Evo, I don't think he's ever qualified here before.  It's a really good effort from him.  A few three-set matches, as well.  You know, he did play some good stuff towards the end of last year.  He's got a good opportunity this year to get himself onto the tour.  I think he has the game to be there.   
It's just up to him to try to maintain his level for longer and not have lulls during the year.  It's a great way for him to start this year.   
Has the draw been done yet for the quallies?  I thought there were a few not bad draws for the qualifiers.  It would be great if he could get through a round or two.   
 Q.  Can you tell us about the evening when you went out to support him and Jamie?  Were you staying late in the locker room?  Were you staying on to watch?  How did that happen?  
ANDY MURRAY: I was back at the hotel and I messaged Leon to ask, yeah, what was going on with their match, because it had been raining and stuff.  There was quite a lot of delays during the day.   
Yeah, all of the team were doing different things that night.  I was just going to eat in my room.  Then, yeah, just decided to come over and watch.  I mean, the hotel's only like five minutes away.  Just walked over and got to see about a set and a half of Wardy and Evo.  It was good they were playing on the courts next to each other, as well.  Mike was there, and I think Barry was there, too.  It wasn't a very pleasant evening.  It was pretty cold and windy.   
But yeah, James was unlucky.  Got injured in his first match.  It was a shame for him.  It's not an easy way to start the year.  Dan did great to win after losing the second set, where he really blew it.  Did well to fight back in the third and win.   
 Q.  Did he come and thank you for your support?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, he said, Thanks, when I saw him after the match.  I just chatted to him a little bit about it and stuff, yeah.   
 Q.  It's a ways out, but do you plan on playing mixed at the Olympics again after the success you had in London?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I would like to.  I'd like to.  I think it's not easy to play three events.  I think because of the improvements my brother's made, as well, there's also more of a chance there to maybe win a medal in the doubles.   
So, yeah, I think it would be difficult to stay, like, in all three events.  Me and Jamie lost in the doubles first round in London.  So, yeah, I'd have to think about it and kind of weigh up, I don't know, the chances of winning a medal.  If you want to try to win medals for your country, you want to enter the events that give you, I think, the best chance to do that.   
Speak to the team and the players about it, as well, because Jamie plays, you know, pretty good mixed doubles himself.   
I think if he's in the top 10 in the rankings, I don't know how it works, 'cause with the doubles players, I know they can pick their partner if they're in the top 10.  I don't know how it works with mixed, if it's just done on ranking or not.  I'll have to have a chat about it.   
 Q.  Given that Novak was the best player last year, have you spent any of your off-season concentrating on how you'd beat him in the main matches?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think, you know, that's always really the case in off-season.  This off-season, yeah, maybe a little bit more.  But it's not just him you have to win against.  I mean, Roger last year, I didn't have a good record against him either.   
Yes, in practices there's things you'd look to do for matches against them, but also rather than it just being in practice, looking at matches that you've played against them and understanding sort of tactics and things that are happening in the match that you can maybe change, as well.  In practice, you're always trying to improve your overall game.  Maybe looking at the videos of the matches and going, Oh, I could improve my serve here or improve my return.  It's not just for against them, it's against all the other players, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT