BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 20, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WAWRINKA/A. Murray   
7-6, 6-4   
An interview with:   
ANDY MURRAY   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Given what lies ahead, it would have been easy to slip away at 2-5.  What motivated you then?  Your competitive instinct, the crowd?  
ANDY MURRAY: I wanted to try and win the tournament.  Obviously you have to try your best right way through to the end.  It wasn't enough.   
 Q.  The margins are pretty small.  Do you think that little run of points in the tiebreak when you were 4-2 up was probably a turning point?  
ANDY MURRAY: No.  I mean, to be honest I made too many errors.  It was tough.  I couldn't quite get the balance.  Because when I was going for my shots, I felt like I was making errors.   
At 4-2, I believe I gave a cheap point away at 4-2.  I missed a forehand on the first ball of the rally.  It was a fairly basic shot.  Then two second-serve returns on my backhand, one into the net, one into the tramlines at 4-3.  I made one other error at the end of the set as well.   
Obviously, that was an important point in the match.  But even in the last game, as well, a couple of backhands, one in the middle of the net on a deuce point, and match point, another simple backhand into the tramlines.   
Way too many errors.  Cheap ones, as well.  Disappointing.   
 Q.  A couple of things that need clearing up.  Jonas and your team were up much higher than they normally are.  Two, you called Mark Darby, the supervisor, after the tiebreak.  What was that all about?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it was irrelevant really with Mark.  Me just being frustrated obviously losing the first set.   
Yeah, with my team sitting behind, I just felt like sometimes when the box is extremely close to the court, I sometimes can find that a distraction.  So I thought it would be better to have them sit a bit further away from the court.  That was it.   
 Q.  In this tournament you have beaten David Ferrer but have lost to Nadal and Wawrinka.  Where do you think you have to improve to beat the greatest, Federer and Djokovic?  
ANDY MURRAY: Way too many errors the last two matches.  Yeah, everyone obviously can make mistakes.  It's just more on easy shots, cheap errors.  Just something really for the most part of this year I haven't been doing.  But this week and actually a lot of the time when I've played here on this court, I've felt the same way.  I made too many mistakes.   
Yeah, my timing wasn't there certainly the last few days.  Maybe against David I had a little bit more time on the ball, whereas obviously Stan and Rafa hit the ball pretty big.  My timing wasn't there today.   
 Q.  How difficult has it been, if it's been difficult at all, given that you did practice on clay ahead of this, not thinking about the Davis Cup Final?  Have you found that okay?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I didn't find it difficult not thinking about the Davis Cup Final, to be honest.  Obviously the only positive for me this week is I've come away from it injury-free.  Now I have a couple more days to get ready for Belgium.   
 Q.  Ironically Wednesday Tim Henman brought up the possibility of your box sitting further away so they weren't so close to the court.  Did you hear that comment?  
ANDY MURRAY: No.   
 Q.  Was there something that happened on Wednesday in particular?  
ANDY MURRAY: No.  I mean, I've spoken about it before.  Actually many times I've spoken about it before.  It's nothing new.   
 Q.  You mentioned your timing was off, you made a few mistakes.  Might you have lost just a little edge because of the lack of hard court preparation, practicing on clay?  
ANDY MURRAY: To be honest, it's not an excuse.  I hit enough balls on hard the last five months.  I said I felt like my timing would get better as the event went on, and it didn't actually, it got worse, which is strange.  So that is nothing to do with not having enough time to prepare.   
Yeah, I don't think that's a valid reason.   
 Q.  Obviously you will turn your attentions to Belgium now.  Does it help having that so soon after?  
ANDY MURRAY: No, not right now.  In a few days, it's a great opportunity for everyone.  Yeah, we look forward to it.   
But, I mean, right now, no.   
 Q.  You were just saying about the fact you felt as if your timing got worse rather than getting better.  Does that give you any cause for concern regarding next week?  
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, like I said, not right now.  I'm not thinking about next week.  But timing's never normally something that is an issue for me.  I normally strike the ball fairly well.  One of the stronger parts of my game.  So that's something that I would imagine would come back fairly quickly.   
But, yeah, I mean, right now I'm not so much concerned about next week.  It's just disappointed that I lost the last two matches.   
 Q.  You talked about your many errors.  What did you think about Wawrinka's game?  Was he good or was it mostly that you didn't play as well as you hoped for?  
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I'm just trying to give reasons for why I lost the match.  I'm not trying to take anything away from Stan.  He serves big.  At certain points in the match, he was hitting the ball very hard off both sides, playing sort of high-risk tennis, making a lot of winners.   
There was a period in the middle of the second set where he played extremely well, a lot of passing shots, hitting clean winners onto the line.  There's not much I can do about that obviously.   
Sometimes when you're playing against the best players in the world, they can play great tennis.  Just from my side on the important moments right now I'm a bit disappointed with how I played them.  If he had hit clean winners or played great points at 4-2 in the tiebreak, you come in and you say he was too good at that moment.  But in the tiebreak, I made bad mistakes at the wrong time.   
 Q.  Can you put your finger on why it hasn't quite happened for you here over the years?  
ANDY MURRAY: No.  If I could then I would have done something about it.   
 Q.  Can you tell us what does this tournament mean to you, how important is this to you, it being at home?  
ANDY MURRAY: It's obviously a big event.  When you're playing and competing against the best players, obviously it's very important.  It doesn't matter whether it's in a smaller event or here.  So that's why I'm disappointed with the losses the last two days.   
But this is obviously a big event, one that I would have liked to have done better over the years.  It just hasn't quite happened for me.  Yeah, I'm disappointed about that.   
But, yeah, it's a big event.  I do enjoy playing here.  Great crowds, good atmosphere.  It's a really nice venue to play in.  Wish I could have done better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT