BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 8, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/A. Murray
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions in English. 

Q. Did you feel that there was maybe a glimmer of hope at that 3‑2, Love‑30, that point of the game?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I had a pretty clean return and just missed it wide. Then on the 15‑30 point, I hit second serve I hit a big forehand return again and to the backhand, and went for big forehand on the second shot and ended up losing that point. 
And, yeah, that was obviously my chance there to get a bit of a lead, some of the momentum, and couldn't quite do it. 
But, yeah, I missed with my backhand a little bit today. Left a few too many in the middle of the court and he was able to dictate a lot of the points from there. 
But, yeah, it was a tough one.

Q. I remember you once saying that it was difficult playing Rafa because there was nobody else stylistically like him. I wonder, is Novak's level so high now it's quite a big leap even when you're playing top 10 players going up against him?
ANDY MURRAY: I mean, obviously this year his level has been incredible. I think, you know, for me, you know, since the beginning of last year, my results against him and Roger, from my perspective, haven't been good enough. You know, I need to do better in those matchups. 
You know, obviously it's harder playing against the best player than someone that's ranked 8 in the world. You know, those two are two of the greatest players of all time, so it's not like there is no disgrace in losing to them. But I do feel like I need to start doing better in those matchups, because the scoreline in the last couple of matches there hasn't been good. 
Against Roger, you know, as well, you know, I really need to do better there. I need to think about why that is and what it is I can do to, you know, change that and turn around.

Q. In the context of what's coming up for you in the next three weeks, how would you sum up this week?
ANDY MURRAY: I think it's positive, but it's not the finish that I wanted. I think, you know, Shanghai was also similar in that respect. So I actually played well there. And, you know, the match against Novak, like, obviously, I'm going to say like I feel I could have played better. 
But the day before, I played excellent tennis against Berdych, and my match against Steve Johnson, I also felt like I played really well. 
Here, same thing. I mean, you know, apart from maybe the match against Gasquet, which was a little bit patchy, I mean, I played some really good tennis against some tough, tough players. 
You know, today, again, I would have liked to have done better, but, I mean, getting to the finals of a Masters Series is good. It's not like it's a bad result, but I would like to have done better today.

Q. Can you maybe share what's going to be your schedule for next week?
ANDY MURRAY: I start practicing on the clay tomorrow afternoon. I will do that through until Thursday, and then start practicing over at the O2 probably on Friday. 

Q. How is the body feeling, having come from a bit of sliding on clay, hard court, going back to clay?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it feels good. I think I got through the week okay. I was happy with the way I recovered from the match against Richard, because struggling a bit with my back in that one and actually pulled up pretty well after that. 
I think I played a good match against David the next day. And, yeah, my body feels good. I feel like, you know, the breaks that I took after the last Davis Cup tie and after Shanghai have done me good, managed to sort of keep me fresh, physically and mentally. 

Q. When you play outdoors, some ends are difficult to serve from, sun, wind, whatever. Today, indoors, you didn't win one service game from, must have been, the north end. Is there any reason for that?
ANDY MURRAY: No, I don't think so. I don't think so. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT