BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 7, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/D. Ferrer
  6‑4, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please. 

Q. That's four Masters finals this year. How proud are you of that consistency?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it's been a good year. I think most of the Masters events I played pretty high level. There is a few matches I feel I could have done a bit better. But, you know, for the most part it's been very good. 
This is a tournament I've struggled at in the past. It's nice to come here, put a few good wins together, and I think a few very good performances, as well. 

Q. Given that World Tour Finals and the Davis Cup yet to come, what has this week taken out of your energy levels or energy reserves?
ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I don't know. There is obviously one more match to go. No idea how that will go. But, you know, the first two matches, you know, nothing really. I mean, I practice a lot more than the amount that I played in those two matches most days. 
So the match yesterday was very tough, for sure. You know, today's match, there were periods of the match that were a little bit physical, but I did feel like I dictated a lot of the points and I finished a lot of points up at the net and was able to shorten enough points to not make it too tiring. 
So, you know, I feel pretty good. My legs feel fine. But, yeah, the accumulation of matches and, you know, playing five days in a row, you know, can take a little bit out of you physically and mentally. So that's where I said I do need to be smart with the days I get off and the time off post the last Davis Cup tie. 
So that's why I need to make sure I took enough days getting ready for Shanghai and also here. 

Q. Today's match was a fun one to watch. Was it a fun one to play?
ANDY MURRAY: I don't think, like, when you're out there, you're necessarily thinking about the match being fun. You're thinking about trying to win the match and, you know, whether one point is, you know, an entertaining point or not. Your job is to think actually why it was a good point and, you know, what you can do on the next point. 
I mean, obviously when you come off the court, you enjoy the win, and I do think I played some good tennis today. You know, like I said, I managed to shorten a lot of the points. There was some variety in there with the way the points finished, which was pleasing for me. 

Q. How do you see the next matchup? Of course you know Novak by heart, and on this surface, how do you see it coming, also with Stan?
ANDY MURRAY: Should be an interesting match, that one. You know, Stan obviously had a very good win last night against Rafa, and, you know, they have played some very good matches in the past. 
You know, Novak probably has the edge, you would think today. But, yeah, I mean, whoever it is, it's going to be very tough. No. 1 and No. 4 in the world currently. Yeah, very tough match.

Q. If it is Novak, and I don't mean this with any disrespect to Stan, but if it is him, do you think if someone like you could beat him, that it would actually be a good thing for the game, because he's become so overwhelmingly dominant that it's almost sort of become quite predictable, he's so far ahead of the rest of the field?
ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, when I go into a match like that, I'm not thinking about whether it's good for the game or not. You know, I think what he's done this year has been exceptional, and I do think that, you know, when players have years like that, it does also draw a lot of attention to the sport, too, because of how consistent he is and how many matches he's won. 
So I don't think for the sport it's negative when someone has such an exceptional year. But, you know, obviously, you know, it's up to the guys that are around him to, you know, raise their level, as well, and try to beat him on a consistent basis and understand, you know, how best to do that. 
You know, I feel like this year I have pushed him close and beaten him once. But, you know, I also had, I think, two of the matches in Indian Wells and the last one in Shanghai, you know, from my side weren't good. But apart from those ones, you know, I have been close. So it's up to me to learn from the ones like the ones in Shanghai to make sure they aren't as lopsided as that.

Q. Have you met Amélie since she has given birth? Will you prepare the next season with her and how?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, no, we haven't met. You know, she's been at home the whole time. I have obviously been, you know, doing a lot of traveling and training myself. But, yeah, the plan is to do the offseason in Dubai together and take it from there. 

Q. It feels like the last two matches, you mentioned today you shortened the points, that you have been gambling a bit, almost taking on a bigger risk factor than you normally would. Do you think that's something you have to do against Novak when he defends as well as he does?
ANDY MURRAY: I think it's something I have done most of this year, actually. I think it's harsh to say it's only been the past two matches. I mean, the whole tournament here I have done that, against Goffin, and against Coric I played that way. Obviously I spoke about the US Open, that was a tournament where it was not just a loss, but all of the matches there I didn't not really feel comfortable on the court. I didn't feel like I played aggressively and that cost me.
Whereas I think the rest of the year I have played that way, and it's given me obviously, you know, a lot of success, and I have been consistent with it. 
But, yeah, against all of the top players, you have to try to take your chances when they are there, and put pressure on them. You know, a lot of them defend so well that if you just allow them to get balls back in the court, you know, they can feel comfortable. I think when you're able to come up to the net and finish some points and go for, when the ball is short, winners and then finish the points. Puts a lot of pressure on them. 

Q. Talking about shortening the points, you have always been respected as having nice hands. Has Jonas worked on the volleying technique with you?
ANDY MURRAY: Not so much the technique. Just more encouraging me to try to come forward, because when I was younger, I used to come to the net all the time. You know, I used to serve and volley a lot more. Go and watch when I played Rafa at the Australian Open when I was 19, I was serve/volleying, coming in all the time. 
And, you know, when you go through a number of coaches, a lot of them have different philosophies. Some of them prefer you to play with less risk. Some want you to play a higher risk. You know, I feel like I got away from playing that way a little bit in my early 20s. Then obviously when I started working with Ivan, I was playing more aggressive from the baseline, but still felt like I could use the net a little bit more. 
I think that Amélie and Jonas have both encouraged me to come forward and finish more points at the net. Doesn't come overnight, but I do think that this week has been a good sign for me, progress in that respect, and I will try and keep that going. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT