BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 5, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/D. Goffin
  6‑1, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q. Probably a little quicker than you expected. Could you get technical and talk about what he's going to be able to do against you when he plays on clay as opposed to what he was able to do today?  
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, I don't know. I think, you know, obviously clay is seen as being my worst surface, but I still feel like I play well on that court. I don't know what speed the court's going to be. You know, if it's quick, then I think that that will help my serve a lot. If it's slow, then I feel like I can track a lot of balls down on the clay which is positive. I can make it physical and tough that way.   
So I don't really know what they're going to do with the court there, but like I said yesterday, it was good for me to get the chance to play him before the Davis Cup and see his game and, you know, the speed of his shots and where he maybe makes some mistakes from and things that he likes to do.   
Obviously with the result, that's a positive. I mean, mentally for me it's a positive win.   
   
 Q. David said basically he woke up this morning and mentally felt completely exhausted. Do you think it's something you learn through the seasons, to cope through the season? Do you think it's conditioning or is it simply the difference between top players and the others?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. I mean, I don't know. I mean, scheduling is very important. You know, I think that's something that you learn a bit better the more years that you play. You also prioritize certain periods of the year and certain events, too.   
I think it's impossible to play your best tennis every single week and prepare for every single tournament exactly the same. You have to, you know, be smart with your schedule, give yourself breaks at certain times during the year and, you know, get the physical work and also the training on court like to work on your game. I mean, you need to give yourself time to do that, as well.   
But, yeah, it's not easy, because it is a long season with, you know, different surfaces and a lot of events that you have to play that are mandatory, as well. So it's not easy.   
   
 Q. You might play Gasquet next round. What kind of match, if you play against him, do you expect?  
ANDY MURRAY: I think he's played very well this year, for the most part. You know, he played some very good tennis on the grass. But I think he's been pretty consistent throughout the year. Obviously playing in front of a home crowd I'm sure will help him, also.   
But, yeah, he's a tough guy to play against because he can play a lot of shots. He can use the angles on the court well. He doesn't just play like through the middle of the court. He can get a lot of angle with his backhand and plays quite high over the net, also. So he's quite different to a lot of other players now. And, yeah, he's always tough to play against.  
   
 Q. If it's Nishikori?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, you know, he's also played excellent tennis this year. I think probably quite likes the conditions here, too. And, yeah, I mean, he loves the hard courts, I think. His whole game is, you know, pretty solid. He doesn't have loads of weaknesses. So, yeah, it's always tough against him, as well.  
   
 Q. Having finished the match before some people have finished their breakfast, does it make for a long day? What do you do for the rest of the day?  
ANDY MURRAY: I'll probably go back and have a sleep. Watch some of the tennis. Yeah, that's it. Eat. See my physio and get ready for tomorrow. Not much more than that (smiling).   
   
 Q. The ball girl who hit you, had her picture posted on Twitter saying, Sorry, Andy, and good luck for the rest of the tournament. Was it the weirdest thing that happened to you while sitting on your chair during the changeover?  
ANDY MURRAY: It wasn't weird. It was just more like, you know, unexpected. You know, that's never happened to me before in a match before. And, yeah, it was just more of unexpected than weird, really, because I didn't know what it was at first. I was just having a drink. I think she must have thrown it quite hard, because it like moved the bottle out of my hand.   
Never happened to me before, and, yeah, I gave her a high five when I walked back to give her my towel. She smiled, and hopefully she's not too bothered about it, because mistakes happen to everyone.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT