BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 4, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/B. Coric
  6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please. 

Q. Well played. Nice start to the tournament. No problems? No worries? 
ANDY MURRAY: It was good. I thought I played a pretty good match. Served well. I felt like I was able to move the ball around the court nicely. Was able to dictate most of the points. Played with good variety. I thought it was a good match.

Q. Of course it won't be in clay, Davis Cup, but playing Goffin next round, do you think you can still take information out of this match?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think so. You know, any time you spend time on court with, you know, opponents you can learn about their game. The thing is the ball and the movements and everything are completely different on a clay court, and that's why some guys play better on some surfaces than others. You know, things that he might not do well on a hard court he might do better on clay. 
So it's obviously good to play against him. But I will obviously, before the tie, watch matches of him playing on clay to learn and understand his game better on that surface. 

Q. What do you already expect from him here?
ANDY MURRAY: I mean, he's very solid, obviously. He's ranked around 15 in the world, and the last 18 months really he's been, you know, extremely consistent. He's not the biggest guy on the tour, but he hits the ball clean off both sides. He's got good hands. He's quick around the court. 
Yeah, we have only practiced together really once, I want to say, once or twice. That was this year. We practiced in Munich together and at the US Open, so we don't really know each other's games that well. So that's why getting a chance to play against him is good before the Davis Cup. 

Q. The conditions here, it seems to suit your game perfectly. You can find every angle. You have time. Do you think it could be a great fit for you here?
ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I hope so. Obviously today was a good start. You know, the conditions I liked today. It was a little bit of dust on the court, you can see, which sometimes the ball shoots through the court a little bit, and it can be a little bit slippy there. 
But, yeah, in general, you know, I did feel like I hit the ball well and I was able to defend pretty good, which is an important part of my game. Also when I wanted to step into the court, I had enough time to do that and was able to get the ball going through the surface. So it was a good start.

Q. What's your plan in terms of the surfaces over the next two or three weeks? Are you going to be mixing the two or will you try and have... 
ANDY MURRAY: I spoke about that before the tournament. I'm practicing on the clay in the buildup to the Tour Finals, so next week, depending on how I get on here, I will practice probably until the Thursday of next week on the clay, and then after that start practicing on the hard courts.

Q. Coric is feeling a little weary after this game. Do you see anything different in his game, anything different from the way you played him last time?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I feel like I have improved since the last time we played. Obviously lost quickly the last time. Today was a very different match. I don't know. It's hard to say. 
Again, it's a different surface. I don't know whether he likes the indoor surface or the indoor courts as much as he likes playing outside or on slightly slower courts. 
But, I mean, obviously last year in Basel he had some good wins there. Beating Verdasco, as well, yesterday in two sets is a good one. It's difficult to say, to be honest.

Q. Saying the game is too tough now for guys, teenagers to come through and make an impact, but starting to look a little bit different. Do you see a change? Do you see them handling it better?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, actually I think that when players are special, you can still do it. When I broke through, you know, Novak obviously came through similar time. Gasquet was doing great from a young age. Tsonga slightly later, but not that much, although he would have been in his very early 20s when he broke through. 
But, I mean, guys like Kyrgios was beating Nadal at Wimbledon when he was, what, 19? Obviously all of the guys you mentioned as well are able to breakthrough and win matches. 
For me, I do think the game physically is tougher, and that's why from a younger age maybe it's slightly harder. But I do think if you are a special talent and you are going to be one of the best players in the world, there is no reason why you can't breakthrough, because in five‑set matches it will be tough. 
The physical side is obviously‑‑ to beat the best players in the world over five sets is extremely challenging, but over three sets, you know, the skill level is what wins you the matches rather than the physical strength, I think. 

Q. Does that mean you think of Coric as a slam winner of the future?
ANDY MURRAY: I don't know whether he's a slam winner of the future, but he's obviously an exceptional talent. You know, I played him when he was 16 years old in the Davis Cup, and even then he was extremely good, you know. 
I would say his game, with the guys around the top level just now, I would say is, plays kind of more like a Ferrer‑type player, you know, extremely solid, consistent, moves very well, great attitude on the court, fights extremely hard. 
Then mentally I think he's pretty good as well when I have practiced with him and, you know, seen him around. I think he works hard, as well. So I think he will give himself a very good shot at doing it. I think he will reach his potential, whatever that is, and that's really all you can do. 
I think some of the guys that are around have maybe bigger games, flashier game styles and more likely to cause upsets right now. But a lot can change in the next couple of years. 
Coric might start developing huge groundstrokes and change his game and whatever, but he's obviously a very good player. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT