SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 14, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/S. Johnson
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Roger said last night that this is a tournament where he finds it particularly difficult to play the first match and get used to the conditions. You seemed to find your stride quickly today. 
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think getting here early helped. The few years when I've arrived here quite late, when I've done well in Tokyo, or even last year, you know, I arrived fairly late from Beijing, it has taken some time. 
I think it's not so much the conditions, that the conditions are really tricky here, it's that they're quite different to Beijing and Tokyo. All of the players say that. 
Yeah, it does take a bit of time to get used to the conditions here. But for me, that was a big positive in getting here early this year, that I've had five days to get used to it. 

Q. You left it quite late announcing when you would do in the Asian swing. You've been to Beijing last year. Was that purely because of the Davis Cup considerations?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I didn't feel like I announced it late. I knew after the tie against France what I was going to do. When I sat down with my team after that, the decision was to only play one of the events over here. I didn't enter any of the tournaments. I didn't plan on asking for a wild card anywhere. 
Yeah, that was what my plan was really. 

Q. Next up Isner. I know you've had a match here already, but how do you feel going into that match?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, tough match. I mean, we got the schedule. We're playing 1:30 tomorrow. The court plays a little bit quicker during the day. When the sun goes down and you play in the evening, it can slow the conditions down. Playing earlier makes it a little bit quicker. So breaking serve will be tougher. 
But, I mean, I played well against him in the past. I've won some close ones against him. But he's played very well this year. He's been a lot more consistent outside of the States this year. It will be a tough match. 

Q. You said beforehand that you were feeling mentally and physically fresh coming in here after your break. Was that the same on court today? Did you feel just as good?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I felt good. I thought I moved well from the beginning, struck the ball cleanly. Yeah, from my side, I was happy with the way that I played and also the way my body felt. I thought I moved around the court very well. That's obviously an important part of my game. Yeah, that was key. 

Q. I think the first game was probably your only trouble game, a couple double‑faults. What did you think about that game?
ANDY MURRAY: I mean, that can happen when you haven't played a match for a few weeks. Yeah, I mean, obviously you don't really feel it in the stands, but there is a bit of wind on that court, as well. Sometimes it just takes a few games to adjust to that. 
But, yeah, I mean, obviously managed to get back quickly. Was up 4‑1, which is important to kind of not allow him to gain any momentum. But, yeah, was a slightly slow start on serve, but from the back of the court, returning and moving was very good.

Q. A non‑tennis question. Your thoughts on the upcoming season for the Heat?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I haven't actually been following what's been happening in the off‑season. I've seen a few of the players they picked up. But I haven't been following it too much. 
We do our fancy basketball draft with all the other tennis guys I think the weekend of Basel. That's kind of when I start paying more attention to it, yeah. 

Q. Do you think it was a case of you being too honest when you said after the Davis Cup semifinals that maybe you wouldn't go to the O2 arena? Do you think it's added extra pressure on you at some point?
ANDY MURRAY: It didn't add extra pressure to me. I just told the truth. I mean, my back has given me trouble on switching surfaces. I've been very open about that in the past. I was open about it after the Davis Cup. 
You know, I have to do what's best for me. If everything goes well and my back feels good training on the clay beforehand, then I'll be there at the O2. It's a tournament I enjoy playing and it's a nice reward for the hard work you put in throughout the year. 
But, you know, the Davis Cup is my main priority between that and the end of the year. I want to make sure I'm fit and healthy for that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT