U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. MURRAY/N. Kyrgios
7-5, 6-3, 4-6, 6-1
An interview with:
ANDY MURRAY
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Was that the sort of match you expected, lots of unpredictable shots, lots of flair from the other end?  Pretty tough at times?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I expected a tough match.  He's obviously just missed out on the seeding here.  Aside from obviously his ranking, he's also ranked where he is based on his performances in the major events.
I mean, he's played well pretty much in every Grand Slam tournament that he's been part of.  Had big wins and pushed, you know, a lot of guys extremely hard and caused a few upsets as well.
I expected a very tough match, and that's what I got.
Q. Do you think a guy who plays with such high risk, so much up-and-down emotion, can that work in today's environment long-term?
ANDY MURRAY: I actually don't think that he plays that high risk tennis to be honest.  I think it's more that the ups and downs.  Like when he's on, he doesn't play high-risk tennis.  I mean, he hits the ball, you know, with a lot of spin on his forehand, a lot of safety.  And his backhand is a really good shot.  I mean, he hits it flat.  The two strokes are completely different.  One's very sort of spinny and the other one is totally flat.
He has an excellent serve, one of the better serves on the tour.  Just sort of 5- or 10-minute periods in the match, it happens a little bit too often, where he has dips, misses a few serves, like gets distracted or loses concentration.  That's where I capitalized tonight I think.
Q. How different did it feel if at all playing under the partial roof?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's definitely different.  Different sound, different atmosphere.  I mean, it's extremely humid the last couple of days.  I mean, it felt so humid on the court.  Obviously has nothing to do with the roof.  But that made, yeah, conditions tough out there.
But, yeah, normally that court is pretty windy.  Now with the sort of roof, there's barely any wind on the court at all.  And, yeah, that's a big change.
Q. The flashy shots, the involvement of people, did that have an impact on you losing the third set?
ANDY MURRAY: The impact of who?
Q. His flashy shots, being so unpredictable, the involvement of people, did that have any impact on your concentration and you losing that set?
ANDY MURRAY: No.  At the end of the set, I mean, he came up with some great shots and was hitting, you know, some big forehands, going for the big returns.
At the end of the set, call it scoreboard pressure, he handled that well.  He was ahead in the score, and he went big for his shots and made them at the end of the set.
But I don't think the reason I lost the set is because I lost concentration.  I felt like he played a few good shots in the game where he broke me.
Q. Mannarino now.  What do you expect from him next round?
ANDY MURRAY: I had a pretty tough match with him in Indian Wells earlier in the year.  I mean, he's a tricky player.  He's a lefty.  He hits the ball extremely flat off both sides.  Very short, compact swings.  Excellent timing.  He's quick.  Good athlete.  Very good hands.  Talented guy.
He's had some good results this year.  It will be a tough match, for sure.
Q. What do you think of some of the stuff he pulls out there?  You probably don't notice like on a changeover he pretends to go to sleep.  He bounces his racquet a lot.  He'll engage with the crowd.  How do you feel about that?  Do you enjoy playing a guy like that?  Is it an irritant to you?  Are you neutral about it?
ANDY MURRAY: No, obviously for me it's important when you're playing against him to just concentrate on your side of the court I think.  I mean, you start getting distracted by that, it's easy for you to lose your concentration.
But I'd say that's something, the times when I played against him, I've done a pretty good job of just concentrating on my side.
But, yeah, almost all the matches that I've played, there have been a couple points where I have laughed on the court or smiled because some of the stuff is funny.  I mean, when he let go of the racquet today after the forehand, I mean, that only happens to him.  Went into the crowd.
I mean, yeah, that's funny when you're playing against him.  But you need to try to concentrate on your side as much as you can.
Q. When you see a guy come in and play a half volley between his legs, does that give you confidence that when it comes to the crunch you'll be able to overcome him?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's one of those things.  Like when he makes a shot like that, he gets like really pumped the next few points as well.  Whereas I think at that moment when he missed that shot, it was quite an important game.  I think he had a bunch of breakpoints in that game.  And, yeah, that obviously is a poor shot selection, which would suggest maybe he's not concentrating that well at that point.  That's where you have to realize that and just try to play solid at that moment.
And, yeah, I think that's something that with playing hundreds of matches on the tour, playing against a lot of different players, different personalities, you understand those moments better in the match.
I felt like when he had his dips, I felt like I capitalized on them today.
Q. Given his talent, thinking you could be out of the tournament on the first Tuesday, how would you rate your performance?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it's a tough match.  You know, I served pretty well for the most part.  Hit my second serve extremely well in the fourth set.  That's something I'll hopefully keep doing as the tournament goes on.
Like I said, I expected a very, very tough match.  But it was hard for me to kind of go out there and be like really aggressive or play the way I wanted to because it's very hard against him.  He's a very powerful guy.  He goes for unpredictable shots.  You don't know exactly what to expect each point.  A lot of the time I felt like I was just reacting and ended up having to do quite a bit of defending and running because of that.
But against him, you're going to have to play that way at times.  So, yeah, hopefully in the next round, maybe I'll have a little bit more time, be a little bit more comfortable out on the court, be able to play a little bit different.
Q. Being that you won this tournament back in 2012, you're talking about your concentration, does that experience of having gone all the way to the finals and winning it, does that help you to maintain your sense of focus, taking one match at a time, go round by round?
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I think something like nowadays I really don't get ahead of myself in tournaments.  I don't look far ahead.  Obviously tonight was an extremely tough draw.  But I wasn't, like, feeling like I was unlucky or anything with the draw I had.  It was just, Deal with it.  I need to beat Kyrgios, come up with the right strategy and game plan for that match and now go home, rest, come up with another game plan to try and win three sets on Thursday, and hopefully repeat that five or six more times between now and the end of the event.
Q. Have you spoken to Amélie at all the last few days?  Is she still helping you?
ANDY MURRAY: I've spoken with her, been in touch with her, but not about tennis.  Well, I mean, I've had like 'good luck' messages from her today, but not sort of tactics or anything, anything like that just now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT