WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 21, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/R. Gasquet
  4‑6, 6‑1, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR: Questions.  
   
 Q. You said yesterday that those sort of tough matches in preparation. Was this another one of those, or was this a little bit easier?  
ANDY MURRAY: It was a lot shorter and not quite as many kind of shifts in momentum and stuff, so mentally it probably wasn't as tiring. Obviously physically it was, you know, tough to feel great. I had a much shorter warmup today. Only hit for like 50 minutes.   
I also tried to practice much closer to the match than usual just to try and feel a little bit better at the beginning of the match.  
Yeah, I think I did well to come through that one, because I wasn't feeling great last night.  
   
 Q. Eighth game of the first set was 20 points all together. You had had three break point opportunities. Didn't convert them. He broke you back. Is that something you were holding on? Why do we see this so much in tennis, where the guy who doesn't necessarily win that game get broken so often?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I don't know how often it happens or if there is‑‑ I don't know if there is a statistic to prove that there is more breaks after guys had break points. I'm not sure, but obviously if you feel you have a chance and you don't take it, then, you know, if you lose the first couple of points of the next game obviously you feel like the momentum is kind of shifted the other way.   
Because of our scoring system, that can happen very quickly.  
   
 Q. Is that what happened with you here and the fact that you were maybe hanging on to opportunities you didn't cash in on?  
ANDY MURRAY: No, I don't think so. I mean, sometimes guys can play very well, too. You know, it was also very tricky from that end where I was serving, as well. I slowed my serve down a lot from that end at the beginning of the match. The sun was right in your eyes, so I wasn't getting free points really from that end and. You know, had to work a lot harder from that side, as well.   
It was probably a combination of things.  
   
 Q. You played a lot of tennis in the past couple of weeks. Tough schedule. How tired are you right now? Is it a level of fatigue heading to the US Open that you can easily recover from?  
ANDY MURRAY: Well, if the US Open was next week, yeah, then it would worry me. The good thing is that there is time after the event, you know, to have some light days.   
But, yeah, obviously tired. Played a lot of matches, a lot of late nights, as well, where my recovery hasn't been perfect either. So I'm just happy I managed to fight through a lot of tough matches, difficult situations, and hopefully that will stand me in good stead for the US Open.   
Yeah, obviously tired because it's been tough.  
   
 Q. A lot more players, especially on the women's side, are wearing headphones on the court for matches. Just wondering if you ever thought about doing that, as well as a way to get into the zone?  
ANDY MURRAY: Did you ask me that question earlier this week?   
   
 Q. Did I?   
ANDY MURRAY: I'm pretty sure I answered it.   
   
 Q. Never mind.   
ANDY MURRAY: My answer obviously wasn't very interesting. (Laughter).  
   
 Q. You had an issue with the Spidercam again. Is that an ongoing thing? How much of a distraction is it?   
ANDY MURRAY: It's just one of those things. I personally don't like it. I don't like it when it moves around between the games and when you're serving. I just don't like it. Some people get put off by different things, but for me, that's something that, yeah, I don't like.  
   
 Q. How close does it come into your line of vision?  
ANDY MURRAY: Well, it's just there. I mean, when you toss a ball up to serve, you can see it. And, yeah, sometimes you throw the ball up and you're expecting to see‑‑ it's just like when the sun is there, when you throw the ball up you know the sun is there so you can move your ball toss around and stuff.   
You know, when you throw it up and you're not expecting to see something there and all of a sudden it's being moved, it just throws me off a little bit. That's why I always ask for it to be moved.  
   
 Q. Your opponent is playing now. How are you going to prepare for tomorrow's match? Expend energy watching them tonight?  
ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, I have played both of them loads. Yeah, I mean, I have played them both over 10 times each ‑ I think Roger close to 20.   
So, yeah, I won't watch too much of the match. Just try to get out of here, get a good meal down me, and try to get to bed before midnight tonight and get a good sleep.  
   
 Q. I don't want to presuppose the results of tonight's match, but if it is Roger, how much will you be thinking about Wimbledon going into that match? How will you feel going into that?  
ANDY MURRAY: I don't think I will be thinking about Wimbledon, to be honest. I mean, it's completely different conditions here, different surface, different balls, everything. Obviously any time you play against him it's very tough.   
He's played extremely well this week so far in the bits that I have seen, and obviously didn't play last week in Canada. So, you know, he will be fresh and also used the conditions, too. He got here pretty early, too.   
So, yeah, obviously very tough match, but I won't be thinking about Wimbledon when I'm out there.  
   
 Q. Is there a lot of trash talking in tennis? We had the one infamous moment recently. I wonder how prevalent it is and to what level.   
ANDY MURRAY: No, I don't ‑‑I mean, I don't think it happens hardly ever. I think it used to be something that happened a lot more often, but now with the microphones and social media and everything, you know, as soon as something comes out of your mouth you can't take it back.   
So I think, you know, people are, or players, are more conscious of that now. Also, they enforce the rules more than they did before. You know, if you say something on the court to your opponent or to an umpire, then you'll get yourself a warning and probably a fine.   
But the only times really when you see players arguing or on the court is over‑‑ you know, it might be over someone taking too long to challenge on the Hawk‑Eye or, you know, too long between a point or something that, you know, causes them to argue.  
But it's not like players go on to the court thinking, right, I'm going to trash talk him on the court today. It's normally an incident that makes it happen.  
   
 Q. They do the trash talking in other sports. Are you glad they don't have it in tennis, or why shouldn't they?   
ANDY MURRAY: I think in a lot of other sports, I mean, the athletes are literally right next to each other, I mean, like whole time.   
Well, football and, I don't know, cricket, basketball, American football, all of those sports. The cameras are miles away. They don't have microphones on everyone. So, you know, it's a lot closer.   
There is no contact in tennis, either, which I think in contact sports a lot of the time, you know, that makes people say stuff, as well.  
But I think, yeah, we're a long way apart when we're on the court, and, yeah, it's not often that stuff gets said. I think it's probably better that way. You saw the reaction to what happened last week. I don't think anyone came out saying that's good for tennis.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT