WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 19, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/M. Fish
  6‑4, 7‑6 
   
 Q. Three finishes after midnight this year; is that tough?   
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's tough. I mean, obviously it's more like when it comes. Obviously after Munich, you know, was tough there.   
And then played the first match, I don't know, we walked on court after 1:00. And then today, yeah, obviously still a bit fatigued there from Sunday.  
So to finish late, that's why it's tricky. Obviously happens like first tournament or whatever you feel a bit better, but it's obviously tricky when you're already a bit tired.  
   
 Q. Was that emotional as well with Mardy?   
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's tricky because I know him well. He's a good guy. We get on well. Obviously I'm desperate to try and win the match. He's still playing well. I was lucky because he hasn't played many matches he made mistakes at the end of the sets, which is normal because he hasn't played loads.  
But he made it very tricky for me and conditions were very tough. It was extremely humid and so different to last week.   
   
 Q. How was the ball flying today? It was very much cooler once the rain stopped.   
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, but the ball is still flying a lot. It's quite difficult to control. The court is still extremely lively. It's bouncing very, very high, yeah, which is‑‑ maybe if you been here five, six days and you've practiced in heat maybe it would have felt a bit different.  
But last week is a bit lower‑bouncing court and it's quicker, but balls are slower through the air there. It's very different.   
   
 Q. Dimitrov next. You two always seem it bring the best out in each other. Would you say that's accurate?   
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, we've played some good matches. The match at Wimbledon for me was not the best match. I was very disappointed with that match.   
Yeah, the other matches that we played, from my side they've been pretty high level. Should be a good atmosphere on Court 3 tomorrow. I would imagine there would be a lot of people there watching. He's obviously a fun guy to watch, too.   
   
 Q. One last question about your exploits in the ice cream store yesterday. Everybody seems to be getting quite excited. Did you enjoy the experience?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I enjoyed it. The problem was that the disguise didn't really work particularly well. Then soon as one person kind of started taking pictures, then everyone started taking pictures. So I didn't really know what to do.  
   
 Q. You're too recognizable.   
ANDY MURRAY: No. I think apart from the wig the glasses were see‑through. Maybe it wasn't the best disguise. Yeah, it was good fun.   
Yeah, I think it would've been more fun for me if the disguise had been a little bit better, because I just ended up standing there taking pictures at the end looking stupid.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT