COUPE ROGERS
August 14, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
   
 Q. How was it to go out this late?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's tough. It's happened a few times this year. It's not easy.   
It's nice, a lot of the crowd stayed. That really helps the players to get motivated. They created a good atmosphere out there. That really helped. So appreciate everybody staying behind.   
But sometimes when you do go on that late, it's tough for the crowd to stay. That's when the matches become difficult.   
   
 Q. How do you evaluate your performance tonight?  
ANDY MURRAY: I thought I did okay. I returned well. That was good. I served well in parts. Could have hit the ball a little bit cleaner off the ground. But I passed well. That was important. I came up with some good passing shots. That was the difference.   
   
 Q. Were you able to catch any of Kei's match earlier during the day?  
ANDY MURRAY: I was warming up and caught bits and pieces of his match. Yeah, I saw some of it.   
He's obviously playing very well just now having won the tournament in Washington last week and having a good preparation period. Obviously had the injury at Wimbledon, so had a little bit longer to prepare on the hard courts. It's obviously paying off for him just now.   
   
 Q. What are you expecting from him tomorrow?  
ANDY MURRAY: I expect a tough match. Like I say, he's playing very well. He's one of the best players in the world. He's ranked 4 in the world, 4 or 5 in the world. I think hard courts are probably his best surface. It will be extremely tough.   
   
 Q. After your performance in Washington last week, now you're in the semis here, how does that feel?   
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it feels good. I mean, it was important to try to have a good tournament here.   
You know, after last week, last week could have turned out a lot different had I got through that first match having served for it.   
But I learnt from that match and hopefully made some improvements for the hard courts and the rest of the summer.   
   
 Q. Congratulations on qualifying for the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals again. Your thoughts on that?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's good. Obviously to do it with a long time to spare is nice. Very different to last year where I ended up playing six tournaments in six weeks. Was pretty fried by the time I got there.   
So hopefully be able to prepare a little better for it this year. Always enjoy playing there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT