COUPE ROGERS
August 12, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/T. Robredo
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Scotland is hardly known as a hotbed of tennis. What do you attribute your ability to come out of Scotland and play the level that you do?
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, obviously a number of things go into it. Obviously my mum and her parents loved tennis, so they played a lot. My mum took me and my brother around. We had local courts next to us, which were a two minutes' walk from our house. It was very easy at first to go and play, even though they weren't courts, or the weather wasn't good, at that age, it doesn't really matter. We're just on the court, not necessarily playing tennis or playing points, but just different games on the court with any balls we could get or racquets. 
That was really how it started. 
But I think both of our parents are extremely hard workers, and I think that's something that rubbed off on me and my brother. They also made a lot of sacrifices for us when we were young to help and try to fund us to go and train in the places we needed to if we wanted to play professionally. That meant me moving to Spain and my brother moved to France at a young age. 
So often it comes down to the parents making a lot of sacrifices as well to give their kids a chance. We've got a lot to thank them for.

Q. 3 hours, 20 minutes last time you played Tommy. How relieved are you it wasn't that long today?
ANDY MURRAY: It obviously felt longer just because of the way everything finished yesterday. It was a long day hanging round with the rain, getting pushed back a lot. 
But, yeah, I mean, obviously it was pretty close to two hours. If I lost that first set or if he managed to hang onto the second, it would have been another long one. 
But, yeah, glad I managed to finish it off in two because it's been quite a long couple of days. Now I get to finish here, rest, get myself ready for tomorrow. 

Q. Now that you've had some time to practice a bit more, because you didn't have as much court time because of the Davis Cup, what is your feeling about your game?
ANDY MURRAY: I mean, today was the best I hit the ball on the hard courts since I started playing on it. Again, I felt like I was returning a little bit better, which is important for my game. 
You know, there's still some things I could do a little bit better. Didn't convert as many chances as I would have liked. Took me quite a few breakpoints before I got the break through. I was up in the first set, as well, and let Tommy back in there with a little bit of a sloppy game. 
You know, there's still some things I can do better. But hopefully that will come with more matches and just building the confidence on the hard courts again. 
But it was, you know, a good start here against a very tough opponent. 

Q. Talk about playing Jamie for the first time competitively tomorrow. 
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it's a bit awkward. I mean, I don't know how the Williams sisters have done that and played some great matches against each other in huge events. Obviously playing for Grand Slams and stuff, I can only imagine how difficult that would be. 
It's the first time me and Jamie have played each other professionally. I don't know exactly how it's going to feel on the court. But, you know, hopefully we won't play each other too often because it's not the nicest thing to have to do. 
In some ways maybe for our family it's nice, it sort of shows that we're playing in a huge event against each other, that we've managed to get to the top level of the sport. 
But I think at the same time it's quite awkward for everyone. There will be no hard feelings either way, but it's not going to be comfortable I don't think. 

Q. The past few days it's been quite chilly and wet. You normally train in Miami, which is different than here. We're heading towards the season that has the US Open where the conditions are normally hot and humid. Do you think it's a disadvantage to have to play in these kind of conditions which are different than what you're going to find in the rest of the summer?
ANDY MURRAY: I guess the thing is that everyone is in the same position really. Something like 17, 18 of the top‑20 players are here. So everyone's in the same position. 
It's extremely humid here. Obviously with the rain around, it has been very cloudy as well, it's been very humid. But, yeah, it's pretty cold, especially when the sun goes behind the clouds. 
Yeah, always expect it to heat up in Cincinnati and New York. Most of the players don't play that week before New York to get used to the conditions there, so I wouldn't imagine it wouldn't be too much of a problem. 
But, yeah, conditions have been quite tricky here. It's been very windy here, as well. 

Q. Obviously we know now where the Davis Cup semifinal is going to be played, in Glasgow at the Emirates. Give me your thoughts on that. 
ANDY MURRAY: Look, I think it will be fantastic. It will be a fantastic atmosphere again, obviously. I would imagine they would sell the arena out again. 
I know a lot of people would have liked to have moved it around. Manchester I think was the number one choice, but weren't able to get the venue. I'm sure you're aware of the reasons why. That would have been a huge arena to play in, as well. 
But I just think it's great that we get so many events or big tennis events in the UK this year. That's something we've not really had in a long time. Having it spread out, you know, across the whole of the UK I think is important. 
But hopefully people understand how difficult it is to book arenas, and big arenas, at such a short space of time. You don't need them just for the Friday, Saturday, Sunday. It's the whole week beforehand, as well. We have to play this match indoors because the weather's obviously not good enough. 
It's great that it's in Glasgow. I'm sure they'll put on a great event again. But, yeah, I'm sure in the future we'll move it around a little bit more. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT