WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/A. Seppi
  6‑2, 6‑2, 1‑6, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Can we ask how you're shoulder is and if you know how Mr. Seppi's leg is?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know what his problem was.   Probably see at the end of the second set when I was serving, I was having a few issues with my serve.   Then when he took the injury timeout, I came out and I was stiffer.   I served two double‑faults in that game.   Slowed my serve down and lost my way a bit. 
Then, yeah, had the trainer out.   Had pretty big manipulation on my upper back.   Served extremely well at the end. 

Q.   Without citing specific people, do you have any views on whether the rules on medical injury timeouts should be tightened up or not?
ANDY MURRAY:   That's a tough one to say.   That's the first one I had this year.   I played 50 matches or something.   Maybe I played more than that, but somewhere around there.   And I very rarely have the trainer on the court. 
So, you know, I'm aware that sometimes if players go off the court to get treatment or at the end of a set, it can become like 10, 15 minutes, like the match before us, that happened at the end of the second set.   It was like a 10, 15 minute break.   I obviously feel like that's too long. 
But, yeah, I guess everyone could kind of do without them.   But, yeah, it's hard to say and have an exact ruling. 

Q.   You finished on good terms, smiling at the end.   No acrimony between you.   There was an understanding that the game was fine.   There was no gamesmanship, shall we say. 
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   I mean, from my side there wasn't.   It can be frustrating because it's not like when you stop for four or five minutes, the injury gets assessed.   You know, and then they have the three minutes.   It wasn't like that warm out there at the end.   When you're playing at 8:15 in the evening and there's a breeze, for the players it's not that warm.   So you can cool down. 
Yeah, that can be a little bit frustrating sometimes.   But you've got to try and deal with it as best you can.   But it's not easy because it doesn't happen all the time.   We're not used to that happening in a match. 
If it happened all the time in every single match where you're having 10‑, 15‑minute breaks, your body would be used to it.   But we aren't.   If there is a five‑, six‑, seven‑minute delay, it's not easy. 

Q.   Do you know exactly what the problem is?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it's something I had the last two, three days.   And, yeah, I mean, I only really feel it when I'm serving.   But it's not something that's of major concern to me. 
But, you know, obviously when you do take a break, it does stiffen up.   And my serve was pretty bad after that happened.   And then, yeah, once I had the treatment, I served much better.   I served way harder.   The speeds of my serve increased.   Served much better at the end. 

Q.   Is it difficult not to panic when something like that happens?   Everybody in the court got a fright.   How do you keep on top of that?   Is there a feeling of panic with so much at stake?
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   The thing is, it does happen a lot.   Like I said, I played 50 matches.   I played, I don't know, 650, 700 matches in my career.   I've played many matches where I've been in quite a lot of pain with my back.   That was the case for almost two years.   I was playing in quite a lot of pain at times.   So I'm used to managing that and getting through it. 
It wasn't something that happened just as I was on the court.   It's been like that for the last few days.   You know, the physios will back me up on that. 

Q.   How bad is this?   Is it a niggle, stiffness, soreness?
ANDY MURRAY:   It's stiffness.   And, yeah, every time I finish a practice or anything, I have my back manipulated.   Just now, Clay, the physio came on the court and said it was like a machine gun going off when he laid on top of me.   Literally my back cracked a lot.   And, yeah, that's been the case for the last few days. 

Q.   You have never asked for an MTO this year, and Seppi also never asked either.   But the physiotherapists aren't genius.   Either the injury was not too serious or really when you call MTO, somehow you break the rhythm of the others.   You both made six games in a row. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah. 

Q.   Which one of the two things do you think is the right one? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I do think medical timeouts do often break up the rhythm of matches, like I say.   Because, you know, your heart rate slows down, you cool down during those moments. 
So when that first game or the first six, seven points when you get up from a medical timeout, yeah, it's not that easy.   Then your body can start to warm up again and it's fine. 
But, yeah, they do often break rhythms and break the momentum of matches, just like toilet breaks at the end of the set when players are gone for 10, 15 minutes. 

Q.   Psychologically it helps the one who asked for the break, correct?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know how it affects everybody.   But, yeah, it can.   Yeah, it can.   I think in some cases it can, you know, relieve pressure a little bit because in a way there's an excuse if things don't go your way, as well.   So you naturally are a little bit more relaxed because of that. 
But, like I say, I know one of the journalists looked at it a while ago.   I really take very few medical timeouts during my entire career.   One of the fewest, I would imagine, on the whole tour. 

Q.   It did look as though when he had his timeout, you had your doubts about whether there was anything wrong with him.   Is that the way you were feeling?
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   Like the gentleman here said, Andreas isn't like that.   I've never ever seen any issues like that on the tour.   It's just one of those things. 
I don't even know what was wrong.   It seemed like it was his leg.   I don't know what he was getting the treatment for.   If someone has treatment for their leg, you expect it's going to hamper their movement.   But the next game when you get broken, you're like, He should be hurt right now and I don't feel like I should be getting broken immediately after he's seen the training. 
That's the psychological part of the game and maybe something I could have done a better job of dealing with myself.

Q.   What would you have done?
ANDY MURRAY:   By not getting frustrated at that point when I got broken.   You know, and then, yeah, for me, like I said, I was frustrated because I got broken, but also because my shoulder, my body cooled down, and I started slowing down my serve.   I served two double‑faults that game.   So I didn't feel like he played a great game to break me, but, yeah, my level dropped for a while after that. 

Q.   Down a different lane.   Andy, Ali Collins played for the first time today.   How well do you know her?   Is there funding in place and structure for kids coming out of Scotland to achieve what they can achieve?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know her very well.   I know my mum has helped her a little bit and has talked to me about her a bit.   Last I'd heard was that she wanted to go and train overseas.   That wasn't necessarily being supported.   I don't know the exact reasons for why that is. 
But my view was that when people stop training at the National Centre, the NTC, because that's not really getting used now except for some camps and a couple of players are using it for, you know, medical services and stuff, that players were going to have more of a decision where they get to train, a bit more freedom to choose. 
I hope she gets a chance to go train where she wants to because I think we obviously have the funding to be able to do that in this country, and not everyone works well in the same environment. 

Q.   Karlovic now.   Got a great record against him.   How will you nullify the weapons he brings on grass?
ANDY MURRAY:   Obviously he served extremely well this tournament.   A couple matches here where he served over 40 aces.   In Halle, as well, he served I think the record for three sets with his match with Berdych.   Extremely tough match.   I'll need to be very sharp on my returns and, you know, try and find a way to get as many of his serves back in play as possible and see what happens. 
But it's obviously a very, very tricky match. 

Q.   Did you see any of James' match?   How much can he take out of this tournament?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I was following it up until I went on the court.   It was I think like 4‑All in the fifth set when we left.   Then, yeah, I was obviously trying to concentrate on my match.   They didn't put the result up until like two and a half sets into my match.   So I didn't know how the match had finished. 
But, yeah, it will be a tough one for him 'cause, you know, it's been a very good tournament.   But he will have also seen an opportunity there.   He's obviously close to winning the match and I think had a few small chances in the fourth set, the beginning of the fourth set there. 
But, you know, compared with how the last few months have gone, it's obviously been a great, great week for him.   You know, a good confidence boost ahead of the Davis Cup in a couple weeks. 

Q.   The shoulder should pass.   How well do you think you played for three of those four sets?   How would you assess your form going into the second week?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I feel like I'm playing very well.   There's obviously like that period in the third set that wasn't great.   Then also against Kukushkin, when I was up 5‑3, then there was like a 15‑minute period there where my level dropped. 
But the rest of the time it's been very good.   I just need to try to cut out those periods in the matches.   Rather than have a 15‑ or 20‑minute lull, make it a five‑ or six‑minute lull.   Where you can't play at the highest level, you know, for three, four hours.   You're always going to have little dips.   But maybe they've been a bit too long this week. 

Q.   The fourth set, you seemed incredibly pumped up.   You were interacting with the crowd.   Your energy level seemed to rise enormously.   Can you describe that fourth set, how you did that. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, well, I mean, when I got the break back, I obviously was pumped up because it had been a rough 20 minutes or so.   Then, yeah, I did feel a lot freer on my serve.   I was getting through my service games very quickly, serving aces, getting free points there. 
Then on his service games, I was really making him work.   I felt like towards the end of the match, I was hitting the ball very clean, very aggressively. 
Yeah, when you can get the crowd involved in the match, it makes a huge difference to your performance, I think.   I mean, you saw that with Heather yesterday. 
It goes to show that when everyone goes on about the pressures of playing at Wimbledon, how difficult it is.   Yes, the pressures are hard, but Heather arguably played the best match of her career yesterday.   Yeah, played unbelievable. 
It shows that the crowd, they really do make a big difference.   They help a lot once you get out there. 

Q.   With Ivo Karlovic, can you try to explain the difference that the serve makes coming from that enormous height?
ANDY MURRAY:   Clearly he can hit angles on the court that I'm unable to hit obviously on the serve because he's probably got, you know, an extra foot, foot and a half of height there with the length of his arm and the racquet.   So that makes it difficult to return. 
The grass, I mean, it helps in some ways on the grass because it's not bouncing as high as it might on a hard court or a clay court.   Returning someone like John Isner's serve on a hard court, the ball is bouncing so high, where at least here it doesn't bounce up as high. 
But, yeah, it's mainly just the fact that he can hit so many of the angles on the court.   You know, he serveandvolleys, too.   He's a very solid volleyer.   You can't just pat the return back into play.   You need to try to do something with it.   So it's tough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT