AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 21, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/K. Anderson
  6‑3, 6‑4

Q.   It's a heavy trophy.   First of all, how happy are you with that form?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, you know, both the matches today were good performances, and, yeah, I played a little bit better as the week went on.
Yeah, it's been a great week for me.   Hopefully I can continue that form through to Wimbledon.

Q.   A little bit better?   That was spectacular. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, when you're playing the match, you're kind of just trying to focus on the next point, not thinking about how well you played.   I often am very critical of myself on the court. 

Q.   No... 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah (smiling).   Yeah, I just try to play each point, and obviously I came up with some great shots when I needed them.   Some were lucky.   I hit the line a number of times. 
Kevin has had a fantastic week.   He's playing great tennis and has had some very good wins.   Yeah, I had to play that way if I wanted to win today.

Q.   It seems like you've got such variety and every shot is working.   The movement is quick, as well. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Thank you.   (Laughter.)
Q.Do you feel you're almost back to the 2013 form or even better?
ANDY MURRAY:   I'm playing better than then, I feel.   But, you know, it's extremely difficult, you know, to win these events.   Everyone is improving all the time. 
You know, you're playing against some of the greatest players that have ever played, so you need to keep working hard and trying to get better.   I feel there are still things I can improve on and learn from.   I will keep trying to do my best and hopefully play like that more often.

Q.   You keep making history.   Fourth title here and joining the legends of the game.   Pretty special names and great names that have won it. 
ANDY MURRAY:   I love the tournament here.   I won my first ATP match here when I was 18 years old.   I was given a wildcard here. 
I love the courts and I love the club.   It's so different.   We don't play in clubs that often around the tour.   You know, the crowd was packed from the very first Monday right through to the end of the tournament, and it's a pleasure to play in front of a full crowd like that.   The support is fantastic. 

Q.   Of course we know what is around the corner.   This is sort of like a perfect preparation, isn't it?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   Well, obviously, you know, you want to go to Wimbledon with matches under your belt on the grass.   But I need to make sure I use the next seven days as best as possible. 
It's been a long few months already, and I need to make sure I take a day or two off and then use the preparation as best I can, because I want to continue playing this way through Wimbledon and to keep practicing hard, train well, and see what happens in a couple of weeks.
I'm looking forward to it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT