AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 19, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/G. Muller
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4 
   
 Q.   Andy, congratulations.   That second‑set tiebreak was unbelievable.   What was the passing shot like to make it 2‑Love?   Did you like that one?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, obviously you need a bit of luck sometimes when you're playing against someone who serves like Gilles.   
I managed to read the return and just charge basically to the other side and hit ‑‑it was a good passing shot.   They don't always go in, so it was a bit lucky, as well.   
I started to read the serve a little bit better in that tiebreak and the end of the second set.   That was when the match changed a little bit.  
   
 Q.   You were so animated.   The way you were changing the return‑of‑serve position, that worked really well for you.   I thought the whole thing was so positive and upbeat.   You looked like you were having a great time.   Were you?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I was when I was winning.   (Laughing.)   It's always tough when you're behind and, you know, I wasn't getting many chances on his serve.   It was a bit frustrating.   
In the second set I was holding my service games well but wasn't able to get the breakthrough.   Definitely towards the end I started to relax more and return better and played some really good tennis at the end.   Hopefully I can carry that form into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Who do you fancy, Isner or Troicki?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Two very different matchups.   John obviously has a fantastic serve and is a huge guy, similar in some ways to playing Muller.   There might be some games where you don't get many chances against him.   When the chances do arrive, you need to be ready and take them.   
Troicki has played very well on the grass so far.   He played in the final in Stuttgart last week and then obviously had a couple of good wins here.   It will be a tricky match.  
   
 Q.   It seems to me you're ready for that tournament that happens on Monday in a week, whatever, but absolutely free and clear to just go for it over the weekend, right?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, obviously love playing here.   I have a chance to, you know, win the event.   All of the guys in the semis do.  
I'm in a good place just now.   Physically I feel good.   Obviously with Wimbledon around the corner, it's always good to pick up some wins.   Looking forward to the next few days.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT