AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 19, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/G. Muller
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How did you turn that around from a set down?
ANDY MURRAY:   I started returning better.   I started returning better end of the second set.   I felt like I was returning the serves very well.   He obviously served a lot of aces in his first few matches. 
I wasn't getting aced much.   I was getting my racquet on a lot of them but not really doing enough with them and return his first serves so well the first set and a half. 
Hit some much better returns in the tiebreak and got off to a quick start in the third set.   It was good.   It was a tough match.   He hardly missed any volleys until right at the end of the match, you know, and then served extremely well.   It was tough.

Q.   Troicki next.   You have an excellent record against him.   Stuttgart final last week.   What are your thoughts?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it will be a tough match.   He's had some very good wins in Stuttgart, and here, he beat Cilic who is very good on the grass and Isner.   Looked like he was returning well against Isner.   Today he was getting in a lot of his service games. 
You know, he serves well, he's a very good mover, good backhand.   He's obviously won a lot of matches lately. 
It will be a tricky match, but, you know, I've played tactically well against him in the past and hopefully will do the same again tomorrow.

Q.   How much do you think the success of the big serve this week has been down to the specific conditions of the courts here this week?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think that's ‑‑I mean, the courts are quick.   That obviously helps the servers on the grass, I think.   You know, I'm not one of the biggest servers, but I have won a lot of free points with my first serve especially.   And if you hit a good, solid second serve, as well, you get rewards from it on this surface.
But, yeah, there is a lot of great servers around just now, and, you know, in some of the matches and even in Halle, Karlovic got the record for aces in a three‑set match.   So, you know, big servers are obviously playing well going into Wimbledon.
It's going to be an interesting few weeks.

Q.   You saw Jose after the game.   (Indiscernible.) 
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I said to him that this was a slightly better performance than the last time he came to watch me, which was at the O2 finals last year when I played against Roger. 
Yeah, I think he seems to be quite interested in tennis.   He spent a few days obviously this week and maybe will come tomorrow or on Sunday.   So, yeah, I met him a few times ‑‑ when I had my back surgery, I did a lot of my training and rehab in the Chelsea training ground near to my house.   I met with him a few times and he's a fun guy.

Q.   Your left thigh? 
ANDY MURRAY:   It's fine.   I had like a bit of a rash, so that's where like when I put my ball...   (laughter).   When I put the balls in my pocket, you know, it obviously rubs against my thigh a lot.
Yeah, that's why I'm wearing the ‑‑it's like basically a patch with something soft underneath so it doesn't affect me.
But, yeah, it's fine.   The thigh is fine.

Q.   Would you consider your habits and not putting the ball in your pocket?
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   I have always ‑‑I mean, unless I have had any issues in matches like my first match here, I had a slight issue with one of the pockets, so I served just with one ball.   No, I pretty much always served with two or with one in my pocket.   I will keep doing that.

Q.   Jose, I know various sportsmen you like picking their brain about the psychology of sport.   Is he somebody you have been able to chat with him about that?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I haven't met him kind of long enough or met him in a situation where it's‑‑ I don't know.   When I was doing my rehab there, they were in the middle of the season and normally kind of getting ready for training sessions and stuff, so didn't really have enough time.
But, yeah, obviously you get a chance to speak to someone like that who has been as successful as him, and obviously, you know, the consistency of his success is pretty incredible, really.   Obviously, yeah, I'd love to chat to him about those things and understanding, you know, what it is that makes him great.

Q.   (Question about Arsenal.) 
ANDY MURRAY:   It looks like that's pretty much done now.   No, I actually didn't ask him about that. 

Q.   In the past we spoke about Troicki.   You described as unprofessional as what happened with his drug test.   Do you feel it was right his ban was cut back from 18 to 12?   Do you think tennis itself has moved out of that time?   Do you think people are getting more professional and the testing process is getting better, as well?
ANDY MURRAY:   I think players now realize that, you know, it's extremely serious business that, you know, the drug testing and, you know ‑‑well, I know that I'm getting tested a lot more than I was in the past.   It's something that needs to happen. 
If you want, you know, the public to take your sport seriously, you need to have strong antidoping protocols and make sure that all of the athletes are getting tested as much as possible.
And that's certainly happening.   I'm not saying that it's perfect.   I don't think any of the sports are. But, yeah, you need more money, more investment in it if you want to have the best protocol possible.
So, you know, I don't know exactly where that money comes from or who is responsible for that, but, you know, I'm pro testing, you know, as much as is required to make sure the sport remains as clean as possible.

Q.   You don't have any problem with him or Cilic being on the tour?
ANDY MURRAY:   Obviously it's a difficult situation.   I think, you know, I said at the time you have ‑‑ obviously you have to be aware of what exactly the rules are.   Like I said, it's extremely serious.   I think if you want to protect the image of your sport, you need to understand how serious the drug testing is and antidoping is.
Yeah, I stand by what I said there.   I'm sure he's learned a lot from that. 

Q.   (Question about Stan Wawrinka.) 
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't really make a difference, to be honest.   It's not, you know ‑‑it just really doesn't make a difference for me, anyway.   I don't know.   Some players may want to be favorites; some don't.   But it's really irrelevant once you get on the court.
I'm aware of how difficult those tournaments are to win.   Yeah, if I play my best tennis and give myself a good preparation, I will have a chance to do well there.
But there is a lot of guys that are clearly playing very well this year, and also, with what we have spoken about, the big servers, you know, there is going to be a lot of dangerous floaters around I think this year. 
Yeah, it's going to be an interesting tournament. 

Q.   To what extent did today's friendly crowd benefit your motivation?
ANDY MURRAY:   What did you say? 

Q.   The friendly crowd of today, to what extent did it, let's say, improve your motivation?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I think any time you play in front of a full stadium, it does give you a rush.   You know, you want to ‑‑yeah, you want to perform well.   And, yeah, sometimes it can be frustrating if you play in front of a home crowd and things aren't going your way and you want to get something going, which, you know, I wasn't really able to do until the end of the second set, but once I did, I was able to use the crowd to my advantage and fed off the energy a bit and got myself back into the match. 

Q.   You actually enjoyed the "Andy"? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think it helps.   In all the sports, it's positive to play in front of a home crowd.   It does make a difference, yeah. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT