ROLAND GARROS
June 6, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/A. Murray
  6‑3, 6‑3, 5‑7, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   Andy, it was an amazing comeback into this match.   Do you think that at the end, maybe start of the fifth, that's why it played to the end, or...  
ANDY MURRAY:   Obviously the way the whole match kind of went.   I mean, you know, the first game of the fifth set had little chance on his serve.   I had deuce and a second serve there.   
And then I played a loose game on my serve the first game of the set with the new balls.   I missed I think three balls long in that game.   Then I think Novak relaxed a little bit after that and he hit the ball extremely accurate.   
In the fifth set he was hitting the ball very close to the line, so I ended up doing a lot of defending.   I felt like I ended up putting up like six or seven lobs just because he was hitting the ball very close to the line.  
But, yeah, obviously the beginning of the fifth set was good for him.  
   
 Q.   What was the sequence of events last night when the referee came on?   Did you want to carry on?   I don't know, what was said out there?  
ANDY MURRAY:   There was like ‑‑it actually started to get light at that point, but at like about 8:00 to 8:20 it was extremely dark, so I was more concerned with that like just before then.   
So that was actually when I broke serve to go 2‑1.   I actually said to the umpire, I said, It's actually very dark right now, and then obviously 20 minutes later we were still going.   Obviously it became light.   Seemed like some of the clouds passed a little bit and the sun came out again.  
But then they just told us that there was going to be, what, a storm coming that would hit in the next 15 to 20 minutes.   It was best time to stop the match.  
   
 Q.   You had the crowd really going last night, and then it was obviously a different atmosphere to come out today.   Were you consciously trying to get the crowd going early on?   We saw you fist pumping early.   Was that something you were conscious of?  
ANDY MURRAY:   It was 3‑All in the fourth set of a Grand Slam semifinal, so, you know, I wanted to get myself pumped up.  
And then also, yeah, last night before we came off the crowd were really into it and it was a good atmosphere.   Yeah, I was obviously motivated to come out today and try to turn the match around.  
But it's not like, you know, you're coming out at Love‑All in the beginning of the semis of a slam that was.   It was 3‑All, a crucial period of the match.   I could have been off the court in 10 minutes if I didn't start quickly.   
So, you know, I tried to start as well as possible and make him work very hard at the beginning.   I felt like I did that, but that was why I was getting pumped up, because it was very important stage of the match.  
   
 Q.   I suppose moving on from that, do you think there was any advantage to be gained by either you or Novak from going off last night?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I'm not going into that, because no matter what I say whatever I say it's not anything that will be acceptable to anybody.   It was what it was and the match finished the way that it did.   
I obviously started well when we came back out today, so, you know, it didn't hinder me.  
   
 Q.   Second time this year now that you have obviously lost to Novak in a slam.   Where do you assess you are in comparison to him now?   Do you think you're getting closer?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I'd suggest it's pretty close after today's and yesterday's match, yeah.   
   
 Q.   There was a period last night when you got the crowd going and you really seemed to have Novak on the back foot.   Can you take more positives from this defeat than any of the previous seven against Novak?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, yeah.   I thought physically I was much better today, as well as yesterday.   Really, I mean, we had been playing, I don't know how long it was, just over three hours, and I felt good on the court.   That was after a pretty tough match against Ferrer, which was also three hours a couple of days ago.  
You know, that was very positive for me.   So, you know, physically I felt like I was doing really well yesterday.   You know, I don't know how good Novak was feeling, but I felt like I was in a good position at that stage.   
So that was the most positive thing for me.   Physically I was right there.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the games authorities need to look at a rule whereby a player can just walk off court for nearly eight minutes in the middle after the match?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I'm not getting into that, Mike.   I said one word after my match with Novak in Australia and it was like I was complaining and trying to be a sore loser.   That's not what it is.   Everyone is entitled to take the medical timeouts when required, and that's what it is.   
   
 Q.   He has a lot of amazing qualities, Novak, but do you think his ability to mentally regroup when he is under pressure is one of his strengths?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think, I mean, all of the top players are very strong mentally.   Yeah, he regroups well during matches.   
You know, he didn't at the beginning of his career, and now it's something that he does extremely well, physically and mentally.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess the first six months of the year for you?   It's obviously been pretty good.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, obviously like right now I'm upset, but, yeah, I would say ‑‑I mean, after Novak, I would say I probably played the best tennis in the major events, in the slams.   Also in the Masters Series I have been quite consistent in the ones that I have played.  
And, yeah, I won probably more matches to this stage than I have any other year of my career.   That's what it feels like.   I don't know if that is the case, but that's what it feels like.   That's been positive.   
There were a couple of weeks in more sort of Dubai where and I didn't play so well and mentally could have been better there.   But the rest of the time I have done a pretty good job.   
My game I think is back close to where it needs to be to winning slams.   Physically I'm back there again, and obviously now with the grass court season coming up, you know, hopefully I can get myself an opportunity there and play much better going into the grass this year than I was last year.   
Physically I'm in a much better place.   We'll see what happens the next few months, but it's been a good start to the year.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT