ROLAND GARROS
May 25, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. MURRAY/F. Arguello  6-3, 6-3, 6-1    THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   Q.  What impression did Facundo's game give you today?  ANDY MURRAY: I think it was -- I mean, it was definitely tricky.  I think, you know, he has a good forehand.  I think when he has time, you know, he can move the ball around the court well with the forehand.  He's quick and fast.  You know, retrieves a lot of balls. I think he could definitely serve a little bit bigger.  And, yeah, that was kind of it. I felt like when I was able to dictate the points, you know, and get, you know, some good depth into his backhand, then I was able to dictate a lot of the points.  When he hit the first ball with his forehand, he was able to make me run and do a lot of moving. But, you know, he's a tough, tough player.   Q.  That seemed like really an entertaining match to watch.  Were you aware that it was fun tennis for those that were watching, or doesn't that cross your mind until afterwards and you sort of look back retrospectively?  ANDY MURRAY: The first set I didn't feel like it was great.  I felt like it was difficult.  The start was very windy on the court and cold, so it was quite slow conditions. I found it difficult at the beginning. Then I felt, you know, when the wind died down a bit in the second and third set, I felt that the level of tennis was better.  It was more entertaining rallies and, you know, we played some good points. Because he moves extremely well, you know, when he was in defensive positions he came up with some good sort of re-dropshots and lobs.  Yeah, there was some good points.   Q.  What do you think about the conditions of play here this year compared to Rome?  Is there a big adjustment to make, or is it quite similar?  ANDY MURRAY: No, this is very -- well, that court in particular, Philippe Chatrier, is very slow, extremely slow.  I have never felt it like that before. When I practiced on the outside courts and the sun is out, it's like always, pretty quick, high bouncing.  Suzanne Lenglen, a little bit slower than the outside courts, but still, it's not that slow.  I didn't feel it.  But center court, very low bouncing, which is strange.  Yeah, very slow and heavy.   Q.  How much do you assess your performance in these kind of earlier rounds?  Is it just a matter of getting through or do you sort of put a big importance on how well you play, as well?  ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, the No. 1 goal is to get through.  That's the most important thing.  But, you know, if you can play well, too, that builds confidence for later in the event. And also, you know, if you aren't playing well in the early rounds, often you have to spend a lot more time on the court, because everyone you play in these events are very tough opponents.  And, you know, if you get dragged into five-set matches or long four-set matches because you're not playing that well, that can have, you know, there is consequences.  You know, you can get tired later in the tournament if that happens. So ideally you want to win as best you can and hopefully play well from the beginning.   Q.  I know it's early days yet, but is there any sense that you are getting any extra support here with the Mauresmo connection?  ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, obviously today was my first match, so not 100% sure, I guess.  Biggest test is if I play against a French player (smiling).  They obviously give great support to the French players here. But, yeah, if my connection with Amélie helps, then that's great for me.   Q.  How encouraging is it to have five Brits contesting the first round of a Grand Slam and properly contesting matches as well?  They're all going to a number of sets at least.  ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I didn't see -- did Heather win?  She won?  I saw a little bit of Bedene and Thiem's match before I went on.  Seemed like it was a pretty good match.  Obviously a tough opponent on the clay. And then hopefully we don't take too long in here and I can see the end of Kyle's match, because obviously it's a big match for him.  I think he gets into the top 100 maybe if he wins that. It's obviously good that Heather has won.  Jo Konta was on just now as well too.  I saw she lost a tough first set. Yeah, it's obviously nice.  More British players in the tournament the better.  The last few years there has been lots of doubles guys around, which is nice.  But the more players in the singles, it's obviously good.   Q.  You mentioned the nerves thing.  How big was that?  Is that just something that is always going to happen in the first round at a slam?  ANDY MURRAY: Yeah.  I would hope that it's always there.  I can't remember the last time I played a first match or I think almost every time I played in a slam the first round I felt nervous. You know, sometimes because, you know, you get here quite early, and although that's a positive in the long run, you get used to the conditions and you prepare properly.  It's also quite a long buildup, which, you know, we don't have at loads of the other events. And then also these are the tournaments that you really want to perform well in.  Yeah, the start of the tournament is always normal to be a little bit nervous.   Q.  Trying to analyze with some other players how the mix of training between women and men can improve the game, what do you think about your experience and do you have any story to tell?  ANDY MURRAY: Do you mean being coached...   Q.  No, no, not coached.  Just training between if any women player you playing against during training.  ANDY MURRAY: Since I have been on the tour, I haven't -- I hit once with Wozniacki in Miami when it rained.  We practiced once on clay together. And then when I was younger, when I was in Sanchez-Casal I used to practice with Kuznetsova when I was like 15, 16, I practiced with her quite a lot. Since I have been on the tour, I mean, I have always really practiced with the guys.  The game styles and the way that obviously guys and the women hit the ball is very different, so before an event it would make sense to obviously practice with the guys as much as possible. I have hit with Amélie a few times, as well, since she's been coaching me.  But, yeah, I haven't played points with any of the women.   THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   Q.  You took part in many Grand Slam tournaments.  Which is easiest for you?  Which is the most difficult?  ANDY MURRAY: (In English.) No Grand Slam is easy.  I don't think any of the players would suggest that.  They are all extremely difficult.  But, you know, Roland Garros is the one that I have struggled with in terms of results.  I mean, my results haven't been bad.  I have played a couple of quarterfinals, a couple of semifinals here, but comparison to the other events, I have had more success at those ones. So Roland Garros would be the toughest for me.   THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.   Q.  We ought to expect a smattering of British success at Wimbledon.  But doing well in other slams, do you think that makes the world take us more seriously as a tennis nation again?  ANDY MURRAY: I don't really know, and it depends on what is "well."  I think winning a couple of rounds at a French Open for us, for the UK is good, but I don't think like France or, you know, Spain or, you know, a lot of -- the Argentinians or them, I don't think they look at it and would be very impressed by that.  You know, a lot of the other nations have multiple players going deep into the Grand Slams. And ultimately that's where you want to try to get to.  Tennis in the UK is obviously a big sport, there's a lot of money invested in it, so you want to try to get as much depth as possible. But, yeah, I don't think -- you know, for us it's great, but I don't think the other countries are looking at it and saying, I think it's great you have two or three players in the second round of a Grand Slam.   Q.  Nick Kyrgios was saying your athleticism is something he aspires to have and Kokkinakis was saying as well things he's picking up with you when he's hanging out with you.  When you're hanging out with those younger guys, are you aware you're taking up some sort of virtual mentorship role or are you just having a good time with them and not really looking at it that way?  ANDY MURRAY: No, I think for me I remember a lot of the guys that were nice to me when I was young on the tour, and it's a good thing to do.  A lot of them are really nice guys with fun personalities.  And, yeah, I think it's good to try to help them if you can or to practice with them, and I enjoy it.  I have a good time. They all have -- they're all, you know, very enthusiastic.  It's a great practice for me.  And, yeah, have a good time when I'm around them. Yeah, like I say, I remember very well and I was very grateful to all of the players that were, you know, nice to me when I first came on the tour, because it can be, you know, tough.  It's not easy as, you know, 17, 18-year-old coming into a locker room with, you know, older guys or people that you've watched on the TV and look up to.  Some guys weren't nice.  And I remember that, too (laughter). I would rather try to be one of the guys that the young guys look up to and say, yeah, he was nice to me when I was coming up.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT