MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 5, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   To what degree is your preparation from last week a positive or a negative?   Obviously on one hand you won a title, and on the other hand you're coming here with a quick turnaround obviously. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think that's obviously tricky, because the conditions last week were very different to what they are here. Obviously I think a little bit more altitude here.   But it's been very warm. 
Whereas last week it was very cold a lot of the days and raining. 
So, yeah, it's going to be a tricky turnaround.   I practice this afternoon, and, yeah, just make the best of the time that I've got before my match tomorrow.   Hopefully I feel good tomorrow. 

Q.   Last week was your first full week with Jonas Bjorkman.   How did it go?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it went well.   It was a tough week because of the sort of days that we had there.   If you work with someone for a long time they maybe have a better idea of the things you like to do in those sorts of situations. 
One of the days I played three matches; one of the days we waited for five hours before we got on, and then only played a few games and got canceled.
So that was tricky.   But the positives were that we also got to spend quite a lot of time at the site getting to know each other and him getting to know the team well, too. 
Obviously the outcome of the tournament was a good, positive start.   Yeah, hopefully I can continue that this week. 

Q.   If it is Philipp Kohlschreiber again tomorrow, how difficult a match will that be?   How different a match will it be to what you've just been through with him on Monday?
ANDY MURRAY:   I imagine it would be quite different. Like I said, conditions for one are pretty different here.   Also playing in a final as well changes things, too, a little bit. 
Yeah, assuming it's not going to rain tomorrow, but we also got rain over the night, so you have a bit of time to think about it as well.
Whereas I think if we were to play tomorrow you just get out there and play without any stopping or worrying about the conditions. 
So mentally probably be quite a different match. 
I haven't hit on the courts here, so I'm assuming the that conditions are going to be different; could be similar.   I just know from speaking to some of the players already that it's been quite quick.

Q.   How do you feel about the scheduling in general of the clay court season, like Madrid and Rome in two weeks?   A lot of players think it's one of the toughest parts of the whole season. 
ANDY MURRAY:   The whole season is tough.   A lot of the buildup to the major events is hard.   You know, obviously before the US Open you have the stretch with Canada and Cincinnati where conditions can be extremely challenging for the players.   And the hard courts are very tough on the body as well. 
The Indian Wells‑Miami stretch is long and tough.   I would say preparing for Australia and   Wimbledon, I guess depending on how you do at the French Open, they're the two easier ones to prepare for.   You don't have two Masters Series right before them. 

Q.   I think clay the past few years has been a bit tough on you body with the back issues.     Do you prepare differently now for this surface, or it hasn't changed at all?
ANDY MURRAY:   My back was giving me problems on a lot of surfaces.   Then on the clay, yeah, it was almost exaggerated. 
But I made some big changes to the way that I was training and the best ways to look after my body and my back with my team and the new people I've been working with.   It's made so far a huge difference in how I've felt. 
You know one of the issues before when I was doing training weeks and preparing for the clay is my back would hurt and I wouldn't be able to practice or train properly.   Then I would come in I just didn't feel ready.
Whereas my training block just now that I did in Barcelona for ten days went really, really well.   I had no issues in my practice or in my training.   That, for me, was a big positive in the buildup to the French Open. 

Q.   How do you feel in general having won the first clay court title now after I think a lot of years for the Brits; 39 I was told?   What does it change in your perspective on this surface?
ANDY MURRAY:   It's obviously a positive for me.   It was a goal that I had for this year.   I had spoke to my team about that at the beginning‑‑ well, at the end of last year about the things I want to try to achieve this year.
So that was nice for me.   Also the way that the match finished as well.   It was an extremely tough match and a dramatic finish.   That always makes it a little bit nicer.
Yeah, gives me a little bit more confidence obviously with the French Open just a few weeks to go.   It's nice to win events at any level.   That builds confidence.
Yeah, I was happy to win.   Hope I can have a good run at one of the next two events, either here or Rome, and get myself ready for the French. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT