MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
April 1, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/D. Thiem
  3‑6, 6‑4, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Well done, Andy.   Was it quite satisfying to turn it round to the extent where you were so dominant at the end having struggled early on?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, at the beginning of the match I didn't return well, especially returning his first serve.   That put me in sort of a defensive position a lot when he was serving.   I ended up doing quite a lot of running there.   
Returned the second serve well, but everything he made a first serve I was returning short and he was dictating all of the points.  
I thought on my own serve was doing fine.   I just played one bad game, and my return game let me down a bit in the first set.  
Then, again, the second set I went up and I was creating quite a lot of opportunities, which was good, but just not quite finding the right shot.   
I think in the third set the difference was really my returning.   Returned his first serve extremely well.   I put him on the back foot.   When I was returning the first serve well I was able to dictate points when he was hitting his first serve, and on his second, and then on my first serve as well.   
So when you're sort of able to control 75% of the points, makes a huge, huge difference.   That's the most pleasing part for me.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a little glitch in your shoulder?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, that was literally‑‑ it was at the beginning the match.   He hit a forehand down the line; I hit a backhand volley kind of behind me and got sort of pain down into my thumb.   It was actually fine in the next game.   
I was more worried about it then.   I started the game off with two double faults and got broken in that game.   Was thinking about it rather than putting it to the back of my mind.   
But it was fine.   
   
 Q.   Moving forward, Berdych or Monaco.   Thoughts on both of those guys?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, I think Tomas has a pretty good record against him.   I know Juan enjoys playing here.   He gets very good support.   
Tomas obviously started this year well.   Been pretty consistent in most of the events that he's played.   
Quite different players really.  
Toms is obviously a big hitter and plays lower percentage tennis; whereas Monaco uses a lot of kick serves, gets a high percentage of first serves in, plays a bit further behind the baseline, and plays much higher percentage of tennis.  
So they're pretty different, different game styles.   
   
 Q.   Did you expect the game to be as tough as it was going into it?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   I mean, I expect a tough match.   He's beaten some very good players this week already.   Yeah, he's a very big hitter of the ball.   He's a very strong guy and he moves extremely well, like I said.   
At the beginning of the match when I wasn't returning so well, when you let him dictate the points, he hits the ball as hard off each side as anyone.  
Made me do a lot of running.   Obviously I would've liked to have started the match a little bit better, but with his game style, if you're not like right on it from the beginning, he's an extremely tough, tough guy to play against.  
   
 Q.   Was it your patience?   Experience?   You're a little bit older than him.   You think that got you through the three sets?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think that obviously helps.   Maybe towards the end of the second set where there was a very long game where I broke him at the end of that set, there was a few deuce points there.   I had a couple break points.   He had a game point or two.   I managed to I know win that game.   Yeah, that came down to experience a little bit.   
Then also I felt like his level dropped a little bit in the third set.   He played a few loose points on his serve at 4‑1.   
But I guess‑‑ I mean, all players go through that really sort of learning experience.   You see what things you could do better next time.   
   
 Q.   Does he remind you of anyone?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Good question.   
   
 Q.   Is there a bit of Roddick in there?   
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I mean, for me, I'm thinking more sort of like‑‑ he has more sort of clay courter's game in my opinion.   Very long strokes.   He's very strong guy so like on the backhand, like someone like‑‑ I mean, his backhand is different, but more like a Gaudio‑type player maybe.   
I'm trying to think who he kind of reminds me of.   But very, very big game.   Very, very good mover.   He has a lot of potential for sure.   
   
 Q.   What did you think about Juan Monaco or Tomas Berdych?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I already answered that question.   
   
 Q.   If it is Tomas, will thoughts of Melbourne come into your mind, or is that way over and past now?   
ANDY MURRAY:   For me it was‑‑ I mean, it's over.   To be honest, it was good to sort of get that match out of the way.   
Yeah, for me, I've moved on from a that for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT