MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
March 31, 2015
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/K. Anderson
  6‑4, 3‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Today Andy is the 9th player on the ATP Tour to win 500 career matches, and 46th player in the Open era with 500 or more wins.   
   
 Q.   Your impressions on the game?   
ANDY MURRAY:   I thought I played a very good first set.   End of the first set was tough.   He was starting to get more chances on my service games, and then I felt like I played one bad game on my serve at 3‑Love in the second set where I started rushing a little bit, which is a shame, because I managed to get a break back and then made that second set a bit tougher for him.  
And then obviously in the third set I created quite a lot of chances and opportunities and served better in the third set, as well.   
   
 Q.   Andy, 500 wins.   How big of an accomplishment is that for you?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, well, obviously there has not been loads of players that have done it.   So, yeah, it's nice I think obviously for me the fact that it happened here, as well.   It's just fitting just because I have spent so much time training here and working to get better and to improve.   That was nice.   
Yeah, I hope I've still got a lot more wins in me.   To get to 500 is good.   It's not an easy thing to do at my age.   It's nice.   Hopefully I can keep going.   
   
 Q.   Within the media and fans, these kind of Masters tournaments are celebrated.   Does that mean that much to the players?   Do they pay attention to those sort of milestones as much as people think they do?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think there is ‑‑yeah, there are certain things that, yeah, you look at, and when you look at the players that have done it, yeah, it's sort of, yeah, people that I looked up to when I was growing up.   
You know, pretty much all of the best players have won‑‑ you know, they have won more.   But I hope for me this isn't the end and I can keep trying to progress.   You know, with each win you get closer to going past a great player.   
You know, the people that are ahead of me have all done pretty amazing things in the sport, so that's what's nice about it.   And, yeah, it gives me‑‑ also feels like it gives me motivation, as well, for some reason.   
I don't know why, but getting to 500, yeah, it gives me motivation to go on and try and win more.   When you look at the list of players and the wins that certain guys have got, it gives you something to aim at, as well.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk about your next match and your next opponent.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   I play Dominic Thiem.   He had his best year on the tour last year.   He's a very talented guy.   He's strong.   I know him fairly well.   I practice with him quite a bit.   He's very hard worker.   Very good attitude.   Very respectful guy.   He's got a very good career ahead of him.  
So I expect tomorrow will be a tough match.   He struggled a little bit the beginning part of the year.   He changed racquets.   You know, always takes a few months to get used to that.   Obviously this week he's played very well again.  
   
 Q.   What can you tell to all the fans who support you every match that you play here in Miami?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think, you know, I obviously appreciate any support that I get.   I have always had good support in the States pretty much most of the places that I have gone to, which has been nice.  
Yeah, support helps.   Yeah, you know, obviously a lot of the support comes from back home, as well, and people that have followed me since I was 15, 16 years old playing in the junior events.  
So I have had a lot of messages from friends and family today and a lot of messages on social media and stuff as well from people who support me, so it's been very nice.  
   
 Q.   Are you as much of a cake fan as your mother is, judging by her Twitter feed?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No, no, I'm not.   I actually had a quite large ‑‑I like chocolate cake.   I don't know if that is chocolate cake or not, but I'm into my chocolate cake.  
   
 Q.   Do you think your team might...  
ANDY MURRAY:   The guys over there enjoy carnage when there is cake around, especially the guy in the middle there.   Loves his cake.   Carnage.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT