BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 31, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/A. Murray
  7‑5, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English.   
   
 Q.   I can only guess, but I'm supposing that after sort of the six weeks of solid play, found a little run at the end that you couldn't sort of stem the tide; is that sort of what was behind that?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   I mean, to be honest, it's possible.   But, yeah, I mean, I started rushing points at the end, that's for sure.   I tried to finish points quite quickly.   You just saw the stats on TV up there that as soon as the point got over five shots I was winning more of the points.   
But all of the rallies that finished before five shots, I mean, I think he won like 22, 25 more points, so that was clearly the difference in the match.   
And, yeah, a lot of them were obviously towards the end of the or the middle end of the second set.   And, yeah, just made too many mistakes early in rallies and couldn't get enough returns in play.  
   
 Q.   Towards the end you seemed to be hurting a little bit.   Are you okay physically?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, I felt okay.   Wasn't too bad.   You know, I was feeling worse last week than I did here.   Wasn't too bad, which was a good sign.   Now get a few days' rest and get ready for London.  
   
 Q.   There has been a lot of talk about Novak's work with Boris and coming to the net more.   Do you think he's added elements to his game this year?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   Is he coming to the net more?   I don't know.  
   
 Q.   People talk about it.   I don't know if the stats back it up or not.   
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know either.   I mean, I wouldn't say he's coming to the net much more than he was.   He could have improved his volleys when he does get up there.   That's definitely possible.   
But I would say he's ‑‑he didn't need to change a whole lot in his game, to be honest.   He's played incredibly well the last three, four years.   Sometimes it's just different volleys can help and make a difference.  
But, yeah, I haven't noticed that he's coming forward more than in the past, but I could be wrong.  
   
 Q.   You have won a massive number of matches this fall.   Do you think there is a different sort of level you haven't been able to hit in terms of going up against the other members of the big four so far this year?   Is it just a little bit of a ceiling you're hitting there does it feel like at all?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   I mean, at the beginning of the year, I mean, I wasn't there, ready to play against those guys, that's for sure.   I think the match against Novak at the US Open was a pretty good match, and I felt like my level was there during that event.  
Obviously today, I mean, I was up a break in the second set.   The first set was fairly close.   But we'll see in London maybe after a little break.   
I can still take confidence in the last few weeks.   Hopefully I can put in a good performance in London and it will be a good test for me.   But I feel like my game's not that far away against those guys.  
   
 Q.   I know it's early days.   You've just walked off court.   But do you leave here with a sense of disappointment having lost to Novak, or a sense of mission accomplished, I've got to London, you've done what you've wanted?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   I mean, the last six weeks have been fantastic.   Only positives can be taken from those last six weeks.   I got through it with some really tough, long matches, physical matches, and against top players.   
Yeah, it will stand me in good stead, like I said, even for next year, as well.   But, yeah, certainly can only really take positives from the last six weeks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT