BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 29, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Benneteau
  6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Didn't seem to be any kind of signs of physical hangover from Sunday the way you sort of went at that from the start today.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, well, to be honest, I mean, he gave me a good start really.   I mean, he served three double faults in a row in his first service game.  
I served very well in the first set.   There was not really any long rallies or physical rallies at all in the first set.  
And then, yeah, I felt fine.   I didn't serve so well in the second set.   I went through a period where I missed a lot of first serves in a row.   Apart from that, I was hitting the ball well from the back of the court.   
It's a lot easier here to finish points than it was last week.   Court is a bit quicker, lower bouncing, so you can come into the net a bit as well.  
Not such physical points here.   
   
 Q.   How do you find the courts here?   I mean, it seems to me that the courts here change from year to year perhaps more than anywhere else.   Would that be right?  
ANDY MURRAY:   To be honest, in the time that I have played here, I only remember one year where it was really, really fast, where it was extremely fast, and the rest of the time I feel like it's been kind of similar.   
It's a slow court, but it's low bouncing.   So when it is low bouncing, it gives guys more of a chance to come into the net.   It's a lot easier to finish points.   You know, when the ball sits up it's a lot harder to finish points off.   
But if you hit a flat ball on this court it does go through the court a bit, so that's how I have normally found the courts here.  
   
 Q.   You need one more victory to qualify for London now.   Will that play on your mind for your next match, or...   
ANDY MURRAY:   I hope not, but I don't know, to be honest.   I don't know exactly what I'm going to think tomorrow, but I would hope it wouldn't be an issue in the match.   If anything, I would hope it would give me some extra motivation.   That's what I would hope.   I haven't view it as being a negative.   
   
 Q.   Could you give us a rundown of your thoughts on who you are likely to play tomorrow, both guys?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I saw like a couple of games before I came down.   Looked like Dimitrov was 5‑Love up, maybe 6‑Love, so it's looking like it's probably going to be him.   
You know, he still has a decent chance at getting in to London, so he'd be pretty motivated, I would have thought, as well.  
And, yeah, it will be a good match for both of us.   
   
 Q.   A wee bit of chance for revenge over previous matches with him this year?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No, not really.   I try not to go into matches like that.   I haven't in the past found that to be beneficial, to look at it like that.   It's just another match against, you know, another player, a tough player.   
And, yeah, you know, I'm match tight.   I feel like I'm playing better tennis than I was earlier in the year.   Hopefully tomorrow will be another good one.  
   
 Q.   Were you hoping for some edge here and in the pop quiz at the end yeah?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, they were like, Ah, you'll get these for sure.   They're easy.   They're easy.   The only one I should have got was the celebration song, but the rest of them, I mean, I had no idea.   
And even after they'd said, I still wouldn't have got any of them.   They were more old school, which I do listen to a bit of old school stuff but not that.   
   
 Q.   Just going back to the London tournament, a couple of weeks ago it appeared that you had no chance; then suddenly you're back in with a very, very good chance after a great run of results.   What do you attribute that run to?   Is it just pure luck or hard work or you just met the right guys at the right time?   You have been playing well, as well.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Definitely wasn't luck.   That definitely was not the case.   
I put in a lot of hard work the last few weeks; played a lot of tough, long matches.  
And, yeah, if I get in to London I deserve to be there, because it's your results across the whole year.   My results in most of tournaments this year, most of the big tournaments, have been good enough to be in the top 8.   
In all the slams I reached at least the quarterfinals, so only four guys would've done ‑‑well in the French Open's case there were two guys that did better than me, and four in the other slams.   
So I have won more matches than most of the players in the slams.   Maybe one or two other guys.   Roger and Novak might be the only ones to have won more.  
And then across the rest of the year I have won I think the second most amount of matches on the regular tour.   So if I get there, I think I deserve to be there.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT