SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 9, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/A. Murray
  2‑6, 6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   That one break of serve seemed to change the momentum of the entire match.   Was that how you saw it? 
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, I guess you could say that, yeah.   I mean, there was a lot of incredibly long rallies and long games and stuff after that.   I mean, he literally barely missed a ball for about a set and a half.   Yeah, I couldn't find a way around him.   He played just great tennis, especially the last set and a half. 
The beginning of the second set I still had a couple of opportunities there right at the beginning.   But after that, I've got to give it to him, he played fantastically well and deserved to win. 

Q.   Do you feel that's possibly the best he's played against you, that last set and a half?
ANDY MURRAY:   It's tough to say.   I played him on many different courts, different surfaces.   But I know today that he played really, really, really well.   I mean, you expect that.   He's been one of the top five, six players in the world for a very long time. 
But I was still hitting the ball pretty clean and making him do a lot of running, making him come up with some very tough shots.   He just didn't miss.   Even when I had him on the run or in tough positions, he just came up with really good stuff. 
It was a shame for me, but it was great for him. 

Q.   Looking at the match, do you chalk this up as a good day for David or was there more you thought you could do? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Always when you lose, it stings.   You wish you could have done a little bit better.   I mean, I maybe could have tried to move forward a little bit more when I had him on the run.   Even in the last game, tried to come forward a couple of times.   It's tough.   He came up with a couple of good passing shots, as well. 
I didn't play as well up at the net today as I had been since I was here in Asia.   That was maybe why I was slightly reluctant in the third set to come forward as much. 
But even still, when you come forward, he's making you play incredibly difficult shots or passing you.   It's normal to not keep moving forward as much. 

Q.   What is your take away over the last few weeks in Asia?   How do you think you can build on this run going into the next season, into Australia?
ANDY MURRAY:   There's still obviously a few more weeks left in the season.   I've played some pretty good tennis.   I mean, the first set today was great tennis.   I played great tennis.   I played some really good stuff against Cilic last week.   It was a solid match.   I didn't necessarily play my best in Shenzhen, but managed to win the tournament there. 
I played some decent stuff, to be honest.   Just, yeah, today was one that I felt like I was playing well enough to win the match, but he was exceptional today.   Like I say, he deserved to win. 
I will go back maybe tonight or tomorrow and take a couple days off, see what the plan is for the next few weeks. 

Q.   I take that to mean you might be contemplating Valencia, Basel?
ANDY MURRAY:   I'm definitely going to play that week.   That was always the plan.   I didn't know which one I was going to play.   I spoke about that the last few weeks.   But I was always planning on playing that week. 
But, yeah, we'll see over the next few days where I decide to go.   Yeah, hopefully I can play well the last couple of tournaments, try and make a push for London. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT