SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 8, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Janowicz
  7‑5, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Just thoughts on that match.   Much different than the one you guys had last week.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, well, first set I served extremely well.   Didn't give him any chances at all on my serve.   That was obviously completely different to last week where, you know, within the first 15 minutes I'd been broken three times.   I don't think I held my serve until 5‑1 in the set.   
Yeah, it was a different match.   I mean, I felt a little bit more comfortable in the conditions, used to the conditions.   Yeah, that helped.   
   
 Q.   As you progress through the draws the last few weeks, are you looking at the ATP Tour standings at all?   Are you cognizant of where you are with regards to other players?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I'm aware of it because I get asked about it every day.   
Yeah, I mean, all of the players that are looking to qualify for the World Tour Finals will be aware of what's going on.   
But, again, you need to just concentrate on trying to win your matches.   That's the best thing that you can do for your chances to qualify.   
If you start hoping that other guys are going to lose, spending time worrying about everyone else's results, then it takes energy away from your own performances.   
You really just need to concentrate on yourself.   I haven't been in this position for a while, so in some ways it's kind of new.   But I'm enjoying it so far.   Just giving me a little bit of extra focus and direction for the last few tournaments.   
   
 Q.   I was wondering if you remember the first time that you came to China, what that experience was like, and how your relationship with China has changed over the course of your career.   
ANDY MURRAY:   First time I came was for the Masters Cup.   I think that was 2007.   That was here.   I have great memories from the first time I came here.   It was for the Tour Finals.   
It might seem stupid, but we got given in the rooms towels with our own names on them.   We got like bathrobes with our names on them in the hotel.   That was really the first time in my career that I'd had anything like that.   
We got treated extremely well from the minute we got off the plane until we left.   It's been like that every time I've come back to China since then.   
I had one bad experience.   I say 'bad experience.'   It was when I played the Olympics.   The way I played, I came away from that, that was mentally really tough.   I was really disappointed with myself.   I spoke for a number of years that I was so pumped for the next Olympics, obviously with it being in London, that I really wanted to kind of right that wrong or change that result that I had in Beijing.   
Going to the opening ceremonies and everything, that was amazing.   That was really cool.   I stayed in the athletes village.   
But that was the one time I came away from China, like I was pretty down after the Olympics because I felt like I didn't perform well.   That's tough when you do it for your country.   
   
 Q.   Looking ahead, looking at the IPTL, mindset‑wise for you in terms of agreeing to play it, do you see that as a competitive event or is it the same as if you were to agree to go to an exhibition in South America?   How do you think about it?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I think it is going to be kind of different to exhibitions because I think the owners of the teams will be wanting the players to play properly.   They want the players to play a high level and to try to win.   They're obviously investing a lot of money in it.   
Whereas I would say an exhibition, you know, the result isn't necessarily the most important outcome.   It's about entertaining people.   I would say for the IPTL, I would expect the owners of the teams, they want to win.   
Be playing against some of the best players in the world.   Yeah, it will be interesting to see how it goes.   You never know how first‑time events are going to go.   But with the players they have involved in it, you would expect it to be a pretty fun experience for anyone that's going to watch.   
I look forward to being, yeah, on the same court or being around some of the legends, as well, that are going to be involved.   It should be good fun.   
   
 Q.   You have quite a difficult draw in your next match and the one after.   Does your previous success in Shanghai give you any confidence going into these games?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, coming to the tournament it did because I do enjoy the conditions here.   I played well on these courts most years that I've been here.   So, yeah, always look forward to it.   
Yeah, the matches at this stage of the Masters Series events are normally pretty tough.   But with my ranking having dropped, obviously you'll come up against better players earlier in the tournament.   I've got to be ready for that.   
But it will be a tough match against David tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You've played David a lot, obviously.   What is the key for you in that match tomorrow?  
ANDY MURRAY:   You need to play a high, high level to win against him.   He certainly doesn't give away many matches during the year.   Certainly hasn't given me any matches when I've played against him.   You always need to play a high level to win.   
In these conditions, if you serve well, you can get free points on your serve, and that can help against someone that obviously returns well.   He's a very good retriever, too.   So serving well will help.   Try and get some free points there.   Hopefully play a solid match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT