SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 7, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/T. Gabashvili
  6‑1, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how you felt out there tonight.   Was it a little bit of an adjustment coming out here to Shanghai after Beijing?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it's obviously an adjustment.   It's very different conditions here for a start.   Courts are different.   Different balls this week.   Very different balls.   So, yeah, it takes a bit of time to get used to that.   It's quicker here.   The ball goes through the air a little bit quicker.   
But I started off the match well.   I was hitting the ball pretty clean, so it was a good start.   
   
 Q.   What happened in the middle stages of the second set?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, it was more the beginning of the set.   I had a bad start to the set.   Played a bad game on my serve.   Then he got back into the match.   
The best players in the world are here.   He's a big hitter of the ball.   When he gets some confidence, gets into a rhythm, he hits the ball extremely hard.   
I was on the back foot a little bit, so I had to adjust my tactics slightly the middle to the end part of the set.   Managed to turn it around.   
   
 Q.   You always put great importance to not just playing the matches but the physical work you can do in the gym and so forth.   How does that work out playing three tournaments in a row bang, bang, bang?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, playing a long match in a slam is extremely challenging.   How you pull up the next day is tough.   
I would say in these three weeks mentally it can be challenging to concentrate match after match after match.   I mean, last week, when I played Novak, it was my eighth match in ten days.   Each day when you get up, you have to be on it, you have to be ready and prepared.   I'd say it's more challenging in that sense.   The best‑of‑three‑set matches, you know, it's an hour and a half, you can recover okay.   But, yeah, mentally it's challenging.   
   
 Q.   You've had, what, two days off.   There was traveling.   But do you get in the gym any of that time or is it all court work with a racquet in your hand?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I did some stuff on Sunday.   We flew Saturday evening.   I practiced Sunday, Monday.   I went in the gym here just on‑site for like 20 minutes.   I did some core work, some light weights.   But I was in there for 20 minutes max.   
It's mainly just maintenance stuff.   I'm not trying to get stronger or anything.   It's just kind of the work I've done before the US Open, I want to try to maintain that strength and that endurance between now and the end of the year so when I go into the off‑season I'm not starting from a low level, that I can build on that.   
   
 Q.   I noticed after the game, your signature on the camera.   Did you draw a heart or a butterfly?  
ANDY MURRAY:   What I wrote means pretty much nothing.   I just say it to one of the guys that I work with, who is probably watching the match.   But it meant nothing.   It literally meant nothing.   There was no hidden meaning or cryptic message.   It's just something stupid I say to one of my friends.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT