CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/P. Cuevas
      6‑2, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   You played Cuevas once before back in 2007.   How much of your past experience did you factor into this game?  
    ANDY MURRAY:   It really doesn't have much bearing, to be honest.   I mean, that's seven, eight years ago since we played.   I mean, a lot's changed since then.   Completely different conditions here to in New York, as well.   
    Yeah, I didn't look at that match too much.   Rather think about the last few months.   That's how you would come up with a strategy really.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel any different being at this tournament on a winning streak from last week?   Does it feel like the weight has been lifted or does it just feel like another tournament?  
    ANDY MURRAY:   I started to feel better after the US Open.   I felt like I was starting to play well there.   You know, I played some good tennis towards the end of the tournament, and I felt good after that.   
    It was about trying to keep that momentum going, you know, try and keep playing solid tennis, winning tennis really.   That was what I wanted to try to do.   
    Obviously, last week was a good start.   Came back from a tough position in the final.   That gives you confidence.   Yeah, here, same thing as well.   Won three three‑set matches in a row having lost the first set.   They're the sort of matches I was losing in the beginning part of the year, so it's nice to come through some of them.   I feel good.   
   
 Q.   You played six matches in the past eight days.   How do you feel physically?   Also, can you talk about your next match with Cilic.   
    ANDY MURRAY:   I feel good.   The first match was very, very tough.   Especially just obviously the final we played in Shenzhen was long, and it was only one day to get used to the conditions here, which were the opposite really to what we played in in Shenzhen.   I mean, it was 33, 34 degrees there.   When I played my first match here, it was 11 or 12 degrees, with very little humidity.   In Shenzhen, it was extremely humid.   So completely different conditions.   
    But, you know, the matches here are played in a lot easier conditions, so physically it's easier to play here.   But I feel fine just now.   I feel good.   
   
 Q.   Rafa came in here earlier and was unhappy about the ball that's being used at this tournament.   Do you also have problems with the balls?   He said other players have been complaining about it.   
    ANDY MURRAY:   I haven't spoken to him about the ball.   I think it's something that players throughout the year tend to complain about because we have to change balls almost weekly really.   That's hard.   If you want to see consistently high‑level tennis, it's very difficult when you're changing balls from weektoweek because they all react differently.   
    For example, I had one day to get used to the conditions here.   It's tough.   I'm sure if you gave golfers a different ball to play with each week, it would take them time to adjust to that, as well.   It's the same for the tennis players.   
    But, yeah, the balls feel different to last week.   I don't have a problem with the balls.   It's just they feel different to last week.   
   
 Q.   What were your thoughts on Cilic's run at the US Open, then thoughts going into tomorrow's match?  
    ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, he's obviously playing extremely well.   Winning the US Open will give him confidence, that's for sure.   
    I didn't see loads of the match, but I saw a decent amount of his match with Federer.   He served extremely well in that match.   I didn't really see any of the final at all.   But I saw some of his match with Federer, and he looked like he was serving well.   He's started well here, too.   
    It will be a tough match, but a good challenge for me.   Hopefully I can play like I did tonight and make it tough for him.   
   
 Q.   The first round in Beijing you were losing 1‑5 to Janowicz, then you lost in the tiebreak.   Today is a big win.   What triggered the change in your form?   Is it because your opponent has changed?   
    ANDY MURRAY:   A lot of different things.   Obviously the opponent is different.   Janowicz came out hitting the ball huge at the beginning of the match, and that was hard for me.   Yeah, also trying to adjust to conditions, which like I explained, were completely different to what we played in during the final in Shenzhen.   
    It takes time.   You can't just come out after one day of practice, no matter how confident you're feeling, and hit the ball great when the conditions are that different, such a drastic change.   
    But, yeah, I managed to find a way through in that match which, like I said, earlier in the year I may not have done.   That was very positive.   Gave myself a chance to get used to the conditions yesterday.   I felt much better on the court today.   
   
 Q.   It's your first time to play on the center court.   I noticed before you serve you look at the sky.   Is it because of the light or is there some other reason?  
    ANDY MURRAY:   No, it was because of the camera that's above the court.   I don't like it when I'm serving when the camera moves in between each one of my serves, especially when it's dark, as well.   With the lights and stuff, I don't know, I don't like it.   
    I asked if, when I'm serving, it can just stay in the same position during the game.   When I'm serving from one of the ends it's completely fine.   I don't mind how much it moves.   But from one of the ends, I prefer it to stay in the same place because I find it distracting otherwise.   
   
 Q.   As for the past Asian games, you chose Tokyo.   This year you chose the China Open.   What are your different feelings towards these two competitions in Asia?  
    ANDY MURRAY:   They're quite different tournaments, very different conditions, the two of them.   But when I decided that I was going to come to Asia for three weeks, I wanted to have as little travel as possible.   Obviously going from Shenzhen to Beijing to Shanghai, all the tournaments in China, the travel was fairly easy.   Gave me a little bit more time to get used to the conditions.   
    If I'd gone from Shenzhen to Tokyo, it was a much longer flight.   I would have had less time to get ready.   That was the thinking behind it.   
    But I haven't been back since they built all of this, all the new stadium and new facilities.   It's very impressive.   They've done a very good job.   
   
 Q.   The fifth game in the second set, you looked a little bit under the weather, were broken by your opponent.   Right now are you feeling well?   Will it affect your next round's competition?  
    ANDY MURRAY:   No, I feel pretty good.   There was one point where I did a couple of sort of strange movements where he hit a return and it went very high, hit the net.   I had to spin around twice.   I felt my hip a bit.   It was pretty sore.   
    But, yeah, after three or four points, I felt fine.   And, yeah, it won't be a problem for tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT