U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. MURRAY/M. Bachinger6-3, 6-3, 6-4An interview with:ANDY MURRAYTHE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. Very different conditions tonight.  Were you happy with how you adjusted to it?ANDY MURRAY: Well, it was extremely windy today.  That was the hardest part about the conditions. Yeah, just very, very breezy.  Difficult to play sort of close to the lines or anything like that. But I hit the ball well considering, served better, and obviously I moved a bit better today, as well.Q. Any repercussions from the other day?  All behind you now?ANDY MURRAY: I hope so.  I hope I feel better every day now.  I felt fine the last couple days.  Had no problems, you know, on the Tuesday or Wednesday.  I practiced well and didn't have any problem.  Tonight was fine, too.Q. Any reaction to your opponent's costume change?  Did you think about that at all?ANDY MURRAY: I wouldn't describe it as 'a costume.'  It wasn't a fancy dress (smiling). No, not really.  One of the colors, it can be quite hard to see on the court, if someone has like a neon yellow color, because it's similar to the ball.  So that sometimes can be a little bit distracting.  But not tonight.Q. Looked like you were enjoying the atmosphere out there, the guy that was dancing and the Aussie guys that follow you are here as well.  Are you aware of that?ANDY MURRAY: Yeah.  I mean, I heard them the other day.  Obviously tonight.  They normally come at the Australian Open.  Got them tickets a few times. I don't know if anyone sorted them tickets here.  But if they're hanging around, try to get them to come to all the matches.Q. I think they've been to both your matches.ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, yeah.  I heard them both days as well.Q. Have you got to the bottom of what caused the cramp?ANDY MURRAY: No.  You never know, to be honest.  It's very difficult to know exactly why that happens.  Sometimes, you know, you can train as much as you want, drink as much.  You know, I could have just missed something with my eating or drinking.  That's definitely a possibility.  Maybe I could have eaten a bit more before the match.  Maybe the couple days before in the lead-up.  I don't know. I mean, a few of the players have had some issues the last few days.  So I don't know if it was purely down to the conditions or not.  But I played in hotter, more humid conditions than that and have been fine.  So I don't know.Q. Do you feel like those conditions, even though they were windy on the Ashe Stadium, maybe they helped you later on in the match?ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I don't mind playing in the wind.  I like it.  You have to play slightly different tennis than usual.  But I've always enjoyed it. I grew up playing in the wind a lot.  I don't have a problem with it.Q. In terms of a percentage improvement on Monday, looked dramatic.  Looked like you were hitting the ball great tonight.ANDY MURRAY: To be honest, in terms of hitting the ball, it was okay on Monday.  I didn't feel like I was hitting the ball that badly at all.  But when you can't move and your body's not functioning properly, it's difficult. I mean, physically I thought I was fine tonight.  But I guess that's normal in those sort of conditions.  Yet that was the main thing, to make sure I recovered well from Monday, and I did that.Q. You have Kuznetsov up next.  What do you expect?ANDY MURRAY: He's had a couple big wins in the slams this year.  He beat Ferrer at Wimbledon and obviously today against Verdasco.  I've never played him before.  I don't know his game that well, but I've seen him play a little bit. He hits the ball pretty flat.  Likes to go for his shots a lot.  This court's fairly quick, so that will probably help him, as well. But I'll watch a little bit of video tomorrow evening, try to understand his game a bit better.Q. Not to dwell on Monday too much, but how easy is it to put that behind you and forget about it, not think about the fact that it possibly could happen again?ANDY MURRAY: Well, you just take each day as it comes, to be honest.  I mean, you never know what's going to happen from day to day.  You know, Monday was very, very hot, humid conditions.  And tonight, it was pretty cool at the end, extremely windy, different court.  Each day, you know, in tennis things change. So you just got to move on, trust the work that you've done, get ready for the next match.Q. Have you been following the debates about Scottish independence?ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, very closely.Q. Could you see yourself playing for Scotland in Rio 2016?ANDY MURRAY: Well, if it happened where, if Scotland became independent, then I imagine I would be playing for Scotland, yeah.Q. Excited about the opportunity?ANDY MURRAY: I haven't thought that much about that yet because I don't think it's looking too likely that it's going to happen.  But if it did happen, then it would be pretty much the first time in my life that I would have ever -- I was just telling Ben that ever since I started traveling to tournaments since I was 11 years old, always played under Great Britain, always traveled to team events or overseas, and we were always under Great Britain.  That's normal to me.Q. Did you watch the debate?ANDY MURRAY: I watched like 45 minutes of the second one, yeah.  But I didn't see the first one.Q. What do you think?ANDY MURRAY: I'm not going into that.  I don't want to talk about politics in here.  I'll worry about my tennis.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT