WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/A. Murray
  6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Were you a little concerned that you blew a lead again?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Obviously, yeah.   It was pretty poor tennis from that stage of the match.   Yeah, disappointing.   
   
 Q.   Can you analyze what it might have been?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I'd have to watch it back.   I don't remember hitting many very good shots after the 4‑1 game.   On the 4‑3 game I hit like two shots about ten meters out, which is obviously not great.   
And, yeah, I don't know.   I have to look at it.   I mean, obviously I've just come off.   I don't remember playing particularly well.   
   
 Q.   Do you think just being up a double break your focus...  
ANDY MURRAY:   No excuse for that at all.   I mean, I played enough matches now for that not to be the case.   When I was 18, then maybe.   But 27 years old, I played this tournament nine times.  
It's not so much about letting‑‑ it can happen, but it's the way that it happened, which isn't good enough.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel like you played better in Australia than tonight?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Australia I played a good match.   It was a pretty good level.   Physically I just he wasn't quite where I needed to be, which is pretty normal one tournament after a surgery.  
But, yeah, I started the match off pretty slow tonight.   He came out quick.   Then I had a couple break points in back‑to‑back games to get into it in the first set; didn't get either of them.  
Then obviously was well up in the second and blew it.   Yeah, it's a shame.  
   
 Q.   Quarters in Canada; quarters here.   Good prep for the US Open, do you think?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I definitely played I think enough matches.   You know, yesterday for me was important to play a match like that.   
Tonight was, you know, good to play against someone of Roger's quality before the US Open obviously because hopefully you'll be playing against guys like that in the latter stages of the tournament if you play well.  
It's good to test yourself and see if there are things you need to work on.   But, yeah, there are a lot of things I'll obviously need to improve.   Yesterday I hit the ball brilliant.   I hit the ball really well.   I played a very good match.   
Today, very, very up and down.   It's been like that most of the year.   
   
 Q.   To New York tomorrow, is it?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Probably, yeah.   Or in the next couple days I'll good to New York, yeah.   
   
 Q.   On the first set you had long rallies with Roger, and then second set you tried to get a little bit more aggressive and maybe attack him a little bit more and try to dictate the rally.   Is there one side of your game, the defense or the offense, that you're not particularly happy with or overall game?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Consistency, to be honest.   That's the most disappointing thing.   Yeah, I was doing some things fine the middle part of the first set and obviously the beginning of the second set I was doing some things well, and then after that I didn't feel like I did many things well for the next sort of six or seven games.   
Like I said, it's fine to have periods like that when you're young and first coming on the tour, but one or two games max should be really when you let your level drop a little bit, and then you need to be able to find it again; I didn't do that.   
   
 Q.   You've been in the latter stages of a lot of these tournaments in your career.   Now the semifinals is going to be one day session and one not before 9:00.   Is that fair going into the final?   Do you think they should try to keep...   
ANDY MURRAY:   I know the conditions are definitely different.   I obviously played today in the evening for the first time and the ball bounces much lower.  
It's much slower conditions.   If it was my preference, it would be to play at the 3:00 match if I was in the semifinals because the conditions are going to be similar if you get to the final.   
Like I said, it was pretty different in the evening.  
   
 Q.   The rest also make a big difference?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, the rest slightly.   I would say more the conditions would be the harder part.   Best‑of‑three set match guys normally can recover.  
I mean, unless you play in the two conditions it's difficult to try and describe how different they are, but it's significant.   They've done stats on it and stuff, the people that have played the day semi and gone on to win the following day.   
It's obviously an advantage playing during the day.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT