MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 8, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. GIRALDO/A. Murray
  6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   You said beforehand you imagine he was going to be a pretty dangerous opponent.   Seemed to be the case today. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, he played very well from start to finish; didn't make many mistakes. 
I didn't make it hard enough for him in the second set.   Towards the end, didn't put enough pressure on him to force him to make errors.   He dictated most the points and deserved to win. 

Q.   Did you expect this kind of match against a player who's having a good run this year?
ANDY MURRAY:   I expected a tough match for sure.   I didn't envisage the match finishing like that.   You obviously go into each match believing you can win and looking for a positive outcome.
To lose with that scoreline is disappointing, yeah. 

Q.   Just going to say, Andy, when you sit down and analyze a match like that you obviously try to draw the positive things from it.   What can you draw from that today? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Only thing I've done this week well is I've served much better.   I've felt a lot more comfortable on my serve, especially on my second serve.   No double faults really and serving probably 10, 15 kilometers quicker on the second serve.   So that's a good positive for me.
I thought I moved pretty well in my first match; today obviously not much.   Tough to take many positives from a match like that.
So, yeah, have to have a little think. 

Q.   Obviously it's quick turnaround to Rome.   What improvement do you think you can make between now and then?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, it's tough, because some days just now I'm playing well, and then the next day I'm not playing well at all.
Sometimes in matches I'm playing really well for periods, and then other times not great at all.   So, yeah, I need to become more consistent.   My best tennis or my sort of base level has to stay the same for a lot longer.
Not necessarily going out there and practicing loads of stuff on the court.   That's something I need to be mentally stronger and mentally a bit more switched on for longer periods in matches. 

Q.   Can I ask if your feel like you're lacking just a little bit in confidence still?   Do you think you need a few more matches and a few more tournaments?
ANDY MURRAY:   To be honest, I don't know.   I think the problem for me over the last few years has been the tournaments outside of slams.   I just haven't had that consistency at all, for whatever reason. 
And then when I've got to the slams I've played well pretty much every time.   So I don't know if it's a question of confidence or not. 
I don't feel like when I'm practicing or when I step on the court‑‑ I don't feel like I'm low on confidence, which I've had periods of before in my career.   Especially after losing in big tournaments or in slams I've felt like that. 
But that isn't really how it feels right now. 

Q.   I would like to know, looking back on the 2013, one year ago, what are you missing?   There was something last year that's missing this year? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, my coach is missing.   That's quite a big part of my team.
But, you know, even when I was working with Ivan, I didn't necessarily play my best tennis here last year or at certain periods. 
Yeah, I'm not 100% sure what it is.   But, again, I need to sit down and think about that the next couple of days and see what I need to do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT