SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 26, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







N. DJOKOVIC/A. Murray
  7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Obviously it seemed like a key turning point was the first point, 5‑6, when you were serving.   Did you feel like he went over the net and the point should have been yours at that point?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I wasn't sure, I mean, from where I was standing, it was a very hard thing to see, but, you know, it's a lot easier if you're looking straight across the net to see whether someone is over or not.
For me, it's impossible to tell from where I was, but I knew it was close.   So that's why I went and asked Novak, and he told me he was over the net.   That was it.

Q.   What did the umpire say to you when you asked him?
ANDY MURRAY:   He said, yes, he was over the net, but he was in line with the net, so I didn't really ‑‑ I didn't understand really.

Q.   But you were clearly angry about that, and you looked at the replay, right?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I looked at the replay.   Well, was it over the net or not?   I don't know.   Yeah. 

Q.   Yeah.   Clearly it was. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Okay.   So that's fine.   I don't need to keep getting asked about it.   If it was over the net, it was over the net, and I was right to complain and that's it.   I was correct. 
And then, yeah, I mean, it maybe had a slight bearing on that game, but I was still up a break in the second set, so, yeah. 

Q.   So what are you most angry about?
ANDY MURRAY:   I'm not angry.

Q.   Or disappointed? 
ANDY MURRAY:   I think my game is just about there.   It's not far off.   I had many opportunities today like 30‑All games and Love‑30s on his serve, and I didn't serve so well when I went ahead in the second set. 
I would have liked to have done that better, but, I mean, I was hitting the ball better from the back of the court.   I was playing aggressive.   I was taking the ball early.   I was trying to come forward a bit. 
And, yeah, my game is not far from where I want it to be.

Q.   Even though you thought your game is doing well, do you feel like that's going to translate when you hit the clay?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't ‑‑I don't know.   I mean, I have to, again, wait and see.   But, you know, I'm happier with my game this week than I was last week.   I played some very good tennis this week, probably some of the best I have played since I have come back, so that's pleasing.
And, yeah, I need to get back on the practice court after having a break and see how my game translates onto the clay.   I'm getting there.

Q.   You're dipping a bit here in rankings because you are the champion.   Just talk about your comeback after an injury. 
ANDY MURRAY:   It's quite likely it was going to happen.   When you miss three or four months, that normally would happen. 
I guess I will be ranked, I don't know, for the year, inside 10.   So, you know, I'm playing top 10 tennis, but, you know, not maybe top 5, top 4 tennis.
That's obviously where I want to be by the time the French Open comes around, so hopefully in the next couple of months I will improve a bit on that.

Q.   Are you thinking about your back at all?   Is it affecting you at all when you play?
ANDY MURRAY:   It's not ‑‑I mean, when I first came back it was more of ‑‑I mean, it's more in the back of your mind, to be honest, when you first start out from coming back from surgery. 
I think anyone would tell you that the first few matches aren't easy.   It's tough to get it out of your head, but it's something that you need to, over time, just get over and deal with. 
You know, I'm moving pretty well on the court now that ‑‑ again, this week was probably some of the best I had moved, so that's pleasing. 
Yeah, I guess most players will tell you coming back from surgery takes time.   It's just different to just having an injury for a couple of months.   Surgery is a completely different thing.

Q.   Playing well throughout.   The second set you get a break, and you came back and played a game you probably wanted to take back and play over if you could. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, there were a couple of games I'd like to play over, yeah.

Q.   Can you talk about what went wrong there?
ANDY MURRAY:   I didn't serve well.   I didn't serve well in the first set. 
In the second set I gave away a couple of free points, double faults, and against Novak normally when you're serving you need to work pretty hard on your own service games and not give him any free points then.   It swings in his favor. 
That was what happened, but I definitely won a bad game on my serve, maybe two.

Q.   Compared to yesterday, how did the back feel after you had the attention on court?   You seem to have seen the physio after here. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it was okay.   I mean, again, I moved pretty well on the court, but that's the most important thing.   It wasn't slowing me down.   Still able to check all of that and stuff. 
Again, that's the most important thing that, you know, I have been able to play for the first three months of the year without too many problems and too many setbacks.
So if someone had told me after the surgery this is where I would be going into April, it wouldn't be too far from where I would have liked to have been. 
Obviously, you know, athletes, they always want more, but if you're being realistic, yeah, it's not too far from where I'd want to be.   I played more tournaments to start the year than I ever have in the last few years and have come through pretty good. 

Q.   Do you think maybe umpires are getting help now from Hawk‑Eye, not having to make a decision?   And then something like that happens like that right in front of their eyes, which is clearly a mistake, do you think maybe it's been contributed to by the fact they don't need to be on these calls as much as they used to be?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   I had the same call in Indian Wells.   When I was playing Vesely, the same thing happened.   Again, the replay showed that he was over the net when he hit the volley. 
It probably doesn't really happen much at all, that it's not just something that anyone really is looking out for, but just, you know, if that was at 1‑All in the first set, I might not even have looked at it, but at that stage then it's something you obviously have a look at when they show the replays.   Doesn't really help things. 
But I don't know.   I mean, it's a hard one for the umpire to call.   That's just frustrating.

Q.   It's clearly very good to see you back to something close to your best.   Are you going to go straight back to Europe, or will you stay here for a day or two?   What's the plan because of Davis Cup?
ANDY MURRAY:   I think it's probably likely I will stay here for a couple of days, and, yeah, take a couple of days' rest, and then I will probably go straight to Italy, I think. 
It's pretty cold back home, so I won't really benefit from practicing outside on clay in 8‑, 9‑ degree weather.   That's not going to be that good for me, so it will probably make sense for me to take a couple of days here in the heat and then go straight to Italy from here.

Q.   Go on Sunday or Monday? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Is it Wednesday today?   Yeah.   Well, the sooner I get there, the better, but I also need to take a couple of days.
Yeah, I'd rather get there on the Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT