SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 23, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/F. Lopez
  6‑4, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Much smoother day today than the first one, start to finish.   Do you feel more comfortable today?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, it's not always that easy to feel comfortable against him because there is not loads of rhythm with the way he plays.
But I moved well; returned well.   Yeah, it was obviously a more comfortable scoreline than the other day.

Q.   Is it unusually hot today?   Even by Miami standards?   Sort of felt it in the shade. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, it was really hot.   I don't know how hot it was, but when we came over at like 9:30 it was already 80 Fahrenheit and it was extremely humid.
I mean, I have played a few matches here where it's been very, very hot.   But it doesn't always stay like this for a few days in a row in March.
But, I mean, I come here in the summer and it's awful.   I mean, it's like 100 and so humid.
But, yeah, it's not easy conditions.

Q.   Someone who spends a lot of time in both places, do you prefer Fahrenheit or Celsius?
ANDY MURRAY:   I started using Fahrenheit a bit more, but I don't know the conversion.   If I speak to someone back home and they say how hot was it and I say it's 85 today and they say, What is that?   I have absolutely no idea. 
You can find it pretty easy on Google.   Yeah, Celsius I think I would use.   I think Celsius is a bit better.

Q.   Your next match is against Jo Wilfried Tsonga.   Have you seen him play in his tournament?
ANDY MURRAY:   Saw a bit of his match today.   I was watching a little bit before I went onto the court. 
And, yeah, seemed like a very tough match, close sets, and a lot of tight games towards the end.   He did well to come back. 
I saw he was 5‑1 down in the second set tiebreak, so did well to come back from that situation.

Q.   You talked about the heat and the humidity here.   I know you train here a lot.   Does it take you a couple of matches, maybe a couple of sets, to kind of get used to the conditions?   Can you talk about that, about the heat and humidity a little bit in terms of getting accustomed to the conditions?
ANDY MURRAY:   I think it's the same every tournament.   It's not necessarily getting used to the heat or humidity.   Sometimes it can be getting used to the cold or the wind or the courts or balls. 
You know, always takes a little bit of time before you feel comfortable on the court every week. 
But here normally it's a little bit quicker to me than usual, just because I spend so much time here.

Q.   How are you feeling in general on court after Wimbledon?   Does it feel any different having that huge accomplishment under your belt and sort of a weight off your shoulders?   Does it feel different going about your whole career right now?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't think about it.   I don't think about it that much.   I think the few months afterwards were hard because, you know, I didn't realize at the time, but it was a pretty big thing to do back home.
So I was maybe a little bit flat for the couple of months afterwards.   I started to‑‑ when I decided I was going to have the surgery on my back, then that was kind of when I started looking forward and not back. 
I looked at how I was going to rehab it.   I put a lot of effort into the Davis Cup.   I knew those were going to be my last matches before surgery, and I wanted to finish well there.
Yeah, I'm just looking forward.   I mean, it's nice that winning Wimbledon has been sort of accomplished, but I look forward now to try and do more in the big events.

Q.   Is it hard to have the same hunger?
ANDY MURRAY:   No.

Q.   Putting aside the obvious, if you were to compare Wimbledon centre court, Queen's centre courts, and this one, which one do you feel most comfortable on and you feel you know the best and feel most intimate in?
ANDY MURRAY:   Wimbledon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT