SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 22, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/M. Ebden
  2‑6, 6‑0, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Andy.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible.)  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, well, you know, I had a chance in the first set as well quite a lot of the games.   It was very breezy tonight.   It was very calm during the day, and then it was completely different.   
I watched a little bit of the match before.   There was a lot of unforced errors and double faults and stuff, so it was tricky conditions.   
I struggled a bit at the start.   He also came forward a lot and cut the angles off and played well up at the net.  
Thought the second and third sets were better.   Executed the game plan and tactics well, and I did a good job.  
   
 Q.   You seem to be hitting the ball with a real ferocity the last couple of sets.   Do you feel it was coming off really nicely?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, they started to get better.   You know, just need to cut down a few unforced errors and need to concentrate a bit better the beginning of my service games, because I got myself in trouble a couple of times, you know, in losing the first couple of points.   That's obviously tough.  
But, you know, the end of the match I was hitting the ball well.   I was making it tough for him, and, yeah, it got better as the match went on.  
   
 Q.   Is it a different feel at all first match without Ivan?   Was that distracting at all?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, yeah, the last few days are distracting, yeah, because it's a big change, and it's something that, you know, I'll need to think about a lot and find a solution for.  
In that respect, yeah, it's distracting, because when you have a settled team and stuff, that's the best.   But everyone goes through periods like this.   It's not distracting not having him here, because I played many matches without him there.  
It's more not having him as a coach and thinking about where I go from here.   That's more distracting than not having him, say, in the box.  
   
 Q.   Are you in a rush to pick someone?   
ANDY MURRAY:   As I said the other day, it's about finding the right person.   I don't want to, you know, panic and get someone next week.   Ideally I'd have someone in place before the French Open.   
That would be ideal, I think.   Obviously a few big months there.  
   
 Q.   That's a relatively long‑‑ pretty long term, though.   
ANDY MURRAY:   There is only one tournament really for me is I'm not playing before Madrid.   So I have that period there where I would hope to try to get something in place around then.  
But, yeah, I have been through longer periods without, you know, without a head coach and been fine, so hopefully this time it works out.  
   
 Q.   You gave yourself a good talking to after being broken.   Went through the next four games and gave yourself a little bit of a momentum there.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, sometimes that helps.   You know, you do what you do to win the match.   That's what matters.   It's not always about how you play or how calm you are on court or whatever.   
It's about winning the match.   That's what matters.   I won the next six games after that.   So maybe it had nothing to do with that; maybe it helped.   I didn't dwell on it.   I just got on and won the match.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible.)  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, well, he lives a long way.   If I play during the day I think he'll come.   
But, yeah, to drive for three hours‑‑ and I don't know what time it is right now; it's around midnight.   He is not young.   He goes to bed pretty early.   This was a late night.  
   
 Q.   Have you stayed in touch the last few days?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I haven't spoken to him since, but I would imagine I would stay in touch with him.   I stayed in touch with pretty much every coach I have worked with.   
I have a great relationship with all of them, Alex, Miles, Brad.   We get on well.   Also worked with Mark Petchey.   Had a great relationship with him.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding team adidas.)   
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   No, I speak to him.   I spend time with him.   I speak to him regularly and get messages from each other.   But I like Darren a lot.   He's a great coach, and he helped me a lot in the period wherever I needed him, as well.   It was nice just now.  
   
 Q.   After a tough week in Indian Wells, do you feel towards the end of that second, third set that it was sort of coming back, the timing and confidence?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, I need to start the matches better.   I don't know what that is.   I don't think it's a confidence thing.   
Maybe today I just came out a little bit flat.   That's what I need to change.   I need to come out a little bit quicker.   Because I haven't done that really the last few tournaments, and it does make the matches tougher and longer.   
Yeah, hopefully I will start off a bit better the next one.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT