DAVIS CUP BY BNP PARIBAS WORLD GROUP FIRST ROUND:GREAT BRITAIN v U.S.A.
January 31, 2014
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/D. Young
  6‑1, 6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Just a question about the venue.   Unique venue.   Probably one of the more unique venues you've played in probably. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, obviously haven't played in a baseball stadium before, and good chance never do it again.   It looks great.
I guess the building o the side, I'm assuming it's quite famous here.   Or not? 

Q.   It's part of the park, yeah. 
ANDY MURRAY:   It's pretty cool.   Yeah, they put on a great site for the tennis.   Yeah, I'm enjoying it.

Q.   How was the surface?   Was it like most clay courts or a little slippery?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, not quite.   It's different.   It's a little bit faster and it's quite slippy.   Then today, because it's been quite damp in the evenings, been some rain in the last couple days, that made it a lot easier to move and it also slowed the court down a little bit as well.
When we played during the day when the sun was out it's been a quick court.

Q.   Last one from me.   Where do you rank Davis Cup for your own personal achievements, obviously Wimbledon being the top?
ANDY MURRAY:   It's tough to say, because I've never played in the World Group before.   I would say for me as an athlete, you know, I've never started a year in a Davis Cup where you can actually win the competition, so this year it's obviously a little bit different. 
I mean, every time I've played Davis Cup I've enjoyed it; I've played well.   This is the 17th singles match I've won in a row, so it's not like when I've played I haven't been motivated.   It's a different mindset coming and being in the main competition and being able to actually win it. 
I'm excited this year. 

Q.   Andy, did you sense that Donald was nervous or confused or a little bit of both out there?   You pretty much had control of that match. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think at the start, the first game there was a couple deuces on my serve.   Once I held there, you know, obviously got the break in the next game.
I think it's natural.   He was rushing a bit.   He was playing quite quick between the points.   I saw Jim Courier trying to get him to slow down a bit, so I kind of sensed that.
But in the second and third sets there were a lot of close games, especially in the third.   Had a couple break points here and there and he held a few games on his own serve at deuce. 
So he definitely played better as the match went on, but definitely nervous at the start.   It's his first Davis Cup match, so understandable.

Q.   Looked slippery out there too and it was cool, so it was almost like playing at home in Scotland basically today.   Was the court a little slippery for you? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Today it was probably the best it had been, but I was just saying before you came in, because it's been raining a lot and there has a lot of moisture in the air and it's very cloudy and sort of heavy conditions, that makes it easier to move.
When the sun comes out it dries the court out it'll be a little bit slippy again.

Q.   A lot has been placed on you playing all three matches.   How much does it help you that the match went fairly quick, a little bit over 90 minutes? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, that obviously helps.   On weekends like this, you want to try and conserve as much energy as you can when possible.   The days can be quite long.
Yeah, if you play all three days it's challenging, so it's good to have won in three sets.   Then we have options as to who we play tomorrow. 

Q.   You were obviously in control the entire match.   Overall how do you feel you played?
ANDY MURRAY:   I played a good match today.   You know, I gave him very few opportunities when I was serving.   Maybe gave him a couple in the third set, which was some down to his good play and his playing better. 
So he was also making some mistakes as well.   But overall, it was a good match for me.   I played well. 

Q.   Can't help but notice you're turning to the TV monitor more than occasionally.   A little bit of interest in the match obviously. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, obviously.   I mean, it's an important match in the tie, and it's a big match for James as well.   First time he's played in the World Group and away from home against a top player like Sam.   It will be good for him.
He started the match poorly, a bit nervous, but he's warmed up now and is playing some good tennis.
Hopefully he can get this set and get (indiscernible) for the next few sets. 

Q.   Andy, if nothing changes and you play doubles tomorrow, talk about how crucial that could be for this tie. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, look, we don't know what's going to happen in any of the matches.   Is it's an individual sport.   Obviously it's a team, but there are only two players.   If one of them plays a bad match, it can be tough to win. 
Obviously play against the Bryans, rarely do they both have a bad day at the same.   They are unbelievably consistent and great, great, great doubles players. 
Yeah, if I get the chance to play, be a big challenge for us and I think also a tough match for them.   Often the doubles match is decisive in close ties.

Q.   As an individual player, winning the slams, you're so used to playing in a different mindset than on a team.   Is that rather unusual being in Davis Cup?   Is that what makes it so different, to be on a team?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, look, I mean, the whole week is different because you have a responsibility to everyone on the team to train properly.   The practices often a week before the Grand Slams, for example, I do whatever I want to do.   I don't have a responsibility to help anyone else in practices or do specific drills that might help anyone else.
You're just doing all of your training and practices tailored to yourself.   This week it's a little bit different.   Then obviously during the matches, playing doubles, that's something I don't do that often.   When I do, it's more for enjoyment and to work on things. 
So it's different definitely for me.   It's not something I do that often. 

Q.   Clay has been the worst surface for your back the last couple years.   Can you feel the difference post surgery? 
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, it stuffs up sometimes.   My back did fine on the clay.   Like last year I went into the clay court season not feeling great.   I mean, today my back felt fine, which is a good sign. 
Also wasn't a particularly long match either.   I was able to dictate a lot of the points.   (Indiscernible) side‑to‑side moving and stuff, so the longer the matches I play I probably get more of an idea by the end of the weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT