QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
December 31, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/M. Shanan Zayed
  6‑0, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Can we say it was an easy game for you?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it was pretty easy. 

Q.   Have you ever had a 100 on your first‑serve points percentage before?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think so.   I mean, it's fairly rare but you see it once, maybe twice in a season.   Definitely for individual sets.   Maybe not always for an entire match.   But that's not too rare.

Q.   Did you feel a little bit sorry for him at all?   Obviously, you know, it's great they give him a wildcard or whatever, but he's at probably a different level in tennis. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   I mean, it's kind of a tough situation.   It's not something you're really looking forward to, but you just have to try and play and concentrate.   That's it. 
In terms of feeling sorry for him, not really.   I mean, after the match but not during it. 

Q.   You went for a hit afterwards?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I just did a few drills and hit some serves.   That was it for like 20, 30 minutes.   I played quite a lot ‑‑ obviously I played a couple of days in Abu Dhabi, and then when I got here I played with Ferrer.   And then yesterday was obviously doubles.   I didn't feel like I needed to do too much but just wanted to hit a couple more balls.

Q.   In terms of preparation for matches and what you do afterwards, following the back operation, have things changed?   Is there more work you have to do to warm up, for example, before and to... 
ANDY MURRAY:   I'm hoping less, actually.   I mean, I was spending hours every day on my back before I had the surgery, so I'm hoping I will have to do less.
Yeah, I mean, obviously right now, monitor kind of everything, you know, everything around how that area is feeling.   You know, I'll do all the same stuff that I did before but just hopefully won't have to do it as much. 

Q.   Will you be indulging a little this evening, or will you be in bed long before midnight?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know, actually.   The last couple of years I stayed up in Australia, always stayed up for midnight and then went to bed pretty much straight afterwards.   But depends how I'm feeling.   If I feel like I need to go to bed, then... 

Q.   The Scots normally party a bit?   Normally a pretty good 'do?   You normally enjoy yourselves?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't drink, really.   I have never really celebrated it that hard, but it's a nice day in the year, I think, and also nice to spend it with the guys that obviously like to be around family and stuff.   But it's nice to spend it with the guys, because we have got a lot of stuff to talk about the end of most years, funny things that have happened during the year, things we have done together. 
You know, normally a few things that not everyone knew kind of gets brought up, things that are irritating each other at certain times, and, you know, it's normally a good chat.

Q.   Did you used to do First‑Footing when you were a kid?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, no. 

Q.   That wasn't a Dunblane thing, then?
ANDY MURRAY:   No. 

Q.   Do you ever make any resolutions? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Not really, because I'd say very rarely do people really stick to them.   So I think if it's something realistic, then I think it's good.   But we were talking about it today with the guys, and we were saying that everyone will try and make a New Year's resolution and the rest of the team has to support them with it throughout the year, because often like if one of them is trying to lose weight, I will try to feed them, you know, so that I will bring in chocolate bars and stuff.   (Smiling.)   I don't try to help them with it. 
We said if that was a goal of someone's, then the rest of the team would have to help them with it. 

Q.   So have you prepared one for tonight, or... 
ANDY MURRAY:   No, no.   We will talk about it at dinner.   We just chatted about it literally before I went on to play the match.   Yeah, we will have a chat about it.

Q.   Related to resolutions, you occasionally tweet inspirational quotes, and I wonder if you had any inspirational quotes that were top of your head at the moment.   I'm thinking about one in the past, "I'm better than I was yesterday but not as good as I will be tomorrow."   So if there is anything kind of inspirational like that that you might use at the start of the year to set the tone?
ANDY MURRAY:   You often see them on the Internet.   I don't really come up with them myself.   They are normally ones that I have read.   I don't come up with too many good ones on my own, but I will think of one and I will give you one tomorrow if that's all right. 

Q.   There is obviously the inevitable event in 2013 that stands out in all of our minds, but is there a kind of a secondary thing that happened to you this year which stands out other than the Wimbledon final?
ANDY MURRAY:   On the court or... 

Q.   Even something that irritated you. 
ANDY MURRAY:   There is a lot of things that irritate me. 

Q.   Silly questions? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Spending time with you before US Open was quite irritating.   (Laughter).
No, I mean, for me obviously the period of like having the back surgery and how I was going to deal with that, that was ‑‑I spent a lot of time talking about it, but obviously, you know, when you actually go in to do it and spend those kind of days in the hospital, and then you can't really do anything after that and you're just kind of sitting down, then you appreciate what it's like to be an athlete and be able to do all of those things. 
Then when that's kind of taken away from you, you know, you appreciate what you have a little bit more.   Then you start to miss playing, you miss traveling, you miss just being around the tournaments, because, you know, I said before the surgery, you could be at an event and, you know, the days can be long.   You can get there at 9:00 and leave at 10:00 in the evening, and it seems like it's a long day and it's a drag.   But when you're away and you can't have that, you know, it doesn't seem so bad.   You know, you learn that that's what you want to be doing. 
That was kind of a process that you go through in your head.   You know, when you have the surgery you're not thinking about it, but after a few weeks, you're like, Oh, I really want to be back playing again, I want to be healthy again, I want to be able to train properly again.
So, yeah, it's quite a significant thing that happened during the year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT