U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/M. Llodra
      6‑2, 6‑4, 6‑3

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Presumably that was just the match you were expecting from him, his tactics, et cetera.   Made it an interesting hour and a half. 
    ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, it was a good match.   The rallies were, you know, quick, sharp.   Wasn't much time between points.   He was playing quickly on his serves in between points. 
    It was a fairly, I thought, high standard match.   Lots of reactions and dropshots, and definitely tested my movement today.   I thought I moved well.   I didn't make too many errors. 
    It was a solid match. 

Q.   Your tweets the last couple of days suggest you weren't thrilled with the scheduling. 
    ANDY MURRAY:   No, I think playing at that time for your first round is not ideal.   That's it. 
    I mean, not going into any more detail than that.   It's just not ideal. 

Q.   Why do you think they putt you on at night versus Del Potro or someone like that? 
    ANDY MURRAY:   It's not whether it's me, it's anyone.   Just because I won last year, it's nothing to do with that.   It's just more, you know, for the guys that have to play this evening, and you have guys that have two days off between matches.   You know, when the weather was like it was going to be, we were told on Saturday, Would you like to play on Tuesday or Wednesday?   We said, Tuesday. 
    They then told us the next day, It's looking like it's going to be Wednesday.   Okay, cool.   It will be during the day on Wednesday.   Yesterday as we were leaving at 3:00 we were told it's looking like you're going to be playing in the evening.   Then we had to come back last night to practice under the lights, and it just changes your preparation for the match. 
    But there were a few guys that were in that situation today. 

Q.   Normally the night session on this day is a second‑round match.   Were you surprised that wasn't the case again?
    ANDY MURRAY:   Well, no, because the Rafa/Pospisil/Dutra‑Silva match was the issue.   It was meant to play in the evening, and when they got rained off the night before they couldn't put them on three days in a row, so I got to play a night match. 
    I like playing at night.   I like it.   I just don't think for the first round it's ideal.

Q.   Do you think it has a long‑term effect?   Both of the Grand Slams you won you played on the first Monday.   Does that tell us anything?
    ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   I don't know.   I mean, I don't know how many guys have played their first match at 9:00 on a Wednesday.   I don't know how often that's happened, so I wouldn't know what the stats or the odds on that are. 

Q.   As the day was going on, was there a concern about playing Thursday?
    ANDY MURRAY:   No.   I thought we were going to get on this evening.   I just thought maybe we would have been on another court.   Yeah, you just want to get the match finished.   You want to get on the court and play. 
    You know, when the weather's like that, it's distressing for everyone, for the referees, the organizers, for the players.   You just want to get on the court and play.   Whether it's on Arthur Ashe or Court 15, it doesn't really matter.   You just want to play your match.

Q.   Low unforced errors count. 
    ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it was a very good start for me.   I wanted to try and start the match well.   You know, obviously he didn't play the best first game to give me the break.   And then, you know, middle of the second set I had to hang in because he was playing well.   I had chances. 
    He was up a break.   Once I got through that, weathered that storm a little bit, I played well end of the second set and was solid for the most part of the third.   It was a good match for me.

Q.   When was the last time someone served and underarm serve against you?
    ANDY MURRAY:   I don't remember that on tour.   And that was a really good one, as well (smiling). 

Q.   Is it tough when you've got so long before your loss in Cincinnati and your first match here?
    ANDY MURRAY:   No. 

Q.   Just to fill the time without a competitive match. 
    ANDY MURRAY:   No, I mean, look, one day makes very little difference really in terms of how you're going to be striking the ball.   That's not going to change a whole lot.   And there was a lot of guys that lost earlier in Cincinnati than me that would have had to wait even longer. 
    You know, it was good to get here early and get used to conditions.   The balls here are completely different to what we were using in Cincinnati.   Obviously, different court, different conditions.   Playing on that big stadium, it's very, very different, as well. 
    In a lot of ways it's good to get here early and get used to the conditions before playing.

Q.   What was it like being announced as a Grand Slam champion?
    ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it was nice.   I mean, it was more kind of going back onto that court again for me was the nicest part about it because, you know, obviously I have great memories here from last year. 
    And I said on the court after the match, I didn't necessarily feel like I had much time to enjoy last year because I was so relieved.   I was also a little bit in disbelief, as well. 
    To actually be out there and play a night match in front of a big crowd was really nice.   I performed well.   It was good. 

Q.   Any sense of relief to actually start a defense so well?   You don't want to conk out in the first game, do you?
    ANDY MURRAY:   No, but I didn't feel that nervous tonight.   I felt comfortable before the match.   I didn't feel any extra pressure, which was good.   I was just ready to play. 
    I was eager to get on the court and play my match.   Last few days in practice, I've been practicing well, hitting the ball well. 
    Like I said, I just wanted to get going.   There were no sort of unknowns out there on the court.   I've played many matches there.   I played in the evening.   I played him a few times.   I like playing left‑handers.   I didn't feel loads of nerves before the match.   I just wanted to get on.

Q.   You have Mayer next.   Any preference of what time of day you play?
    ANDY MURRAY:   No, I don't have a preference.   I just want to get my matches obviously on at the right times.   You know, he's a very talented player.   He's got big sort of long, looping strokes.   I think he plays his best tennis on the hard courts. 
    Played him once before in Valencia.   I think it was three sets indoors.   He's a good player.   I think he's had quite a few injuries the last couple years and that's why he hasn't sort of got much higher in the rankings.   But he's very tough. 

Q.   Nice to have British company at well at this stage?
    ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it's good.   The more British players, the better.   Obviously Dan's been playing very, very well this summer.   You know, he's got a match that he'll fancy I think with the way he's been playing.   The way their games match up, it will be a very interesting match. 
    Laura is obviously coming off the back of a sort of niggling wrist injury.   They can be tricky.   I've had a few of them when I was younger, as well.   Hopefully they can keep winning. 
    Only gets tougher out. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT