WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 15, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/J. Benneteau
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions?

Q.   Andy, in these summer Masters events where everything is so condensed, how advantageous is it for you to be able to take care of business quickly and get off the court? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it's good.   I mean, in some ways, yeah, you want to try and get off quickly because you need to play the next day. 
But also, you know, in ten days' time, we're going to have to play best of five sets, so sometimes the long matches can kind of set you up for that well. 
Last week Wednesday and Thursday I played singles and doubles, so that helped a little bit with the fitness. 
Yeah, in terms of winning this event, better to get off quick because you obviously have to play five days in a row if you want to win.

Q.   Either Berdych or Robredo next.   Your thoughts on that next potential matchup. 
ANDY MURRAY:   It will be tough.   Tommy's had a great year this year.   He's come back from a tough injury.   Last year he was out the best part of a year really. 
He's come back really well from that.   He's a great competitor.   Obviously, Tomas is a tough, tough player, a big, big game.   Goes for it. 
As far as the conditions here, it suits him pretty well and he's fairly quick.   That will be a tough match.

Q.   Not sure if this has been asked or not, what was your reaction to Marion Bartoli's retirement, Andy, and what are your memories of that night, that champions dinner when you both were celebrating your titles? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, in some ways, it's surprising, but I did say in here the other day that‑‑ I wasn't meaning any disrespect for it.   I was saying it in the most positive way.   I think the biggest compliment you can pay an athlete is they've reached their potential, and I believe she did that. 
She worked exceptionally hard to get to where she's got to.   She deserved to win a Grand Slam, and maybe it was the right time for her to stop because of how hard she needed to work. 
But it was obviously surprising because you don't see it that often in sport where people kind of finish almost on the top in a way. 
But I'm sure she'll enjoy her life.   It's nice to finish your career as Wimbledon champion, that's for sure.

Q.   You're Wimbledon champion; you're current US Open champion.   Were you a little bit surprised to see you were scheduled for Grandstand today? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Not really.   There's a lot of great players playing in this tournament, and it's very difficult to schedule everybody on the Center Court. 
The crowds here are great, so it's pretty much packed on any of the courts you play on.   Whether you play on the Center Court, so long as there's a good atmosphere there, there's no real difference. 
Sometimes it can be difficult when there's not really anyone there to get yourself up for the match. 
But, no, that wasn't an issue.   I think tomorrow I'll play on the Grandstand again.

Q.   You had a pretty interesting match with Julien here a few years ago, the 50‑ball rally and whatnot.   That was an epic match as well.   What was he doing today that gave you some problems earlier on? 
ANDY MURRAY:   I started the match well.   I think I went up 4‑0 pretty quickly, so I started the match well. 
I remember that day when we played here quite a few years ago.   It was extremely windy conditions, and both of us were kind of pushing the ball in a way to make as many balls as possible. 
I saw that rally back on YouTube, and it was an ugly, ugly rally.   Thankfully, none of that today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT