WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 14, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A.   MURRAY/M. Youzhny
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   Andy, Cincinnati in known for not just getting you ready for the hard courts in New York, but also the heat that awaits you there.   Heat didn't really show up today.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yes, it was strange.   I've been coming here, I mean, maybe eight years, and not once has it ever been like this.   Never.   So very, very strange to play here when it's like that.  
   
 Q.   You've been coming here eight years.   In those eight years, tell us about those Cincinnati fans, how you've enjoyed playing in front of them and enjoyed the crowds.   
ANDY MURRAY:   I think every year I've been coming back the tour has got bigger and bigger.   Even practice on Monday Tuesday when we're here, I mean the practice courts are packed.   They get great crowds from the beginning of the tournament, so it's nice.   
The tournament's got a lot of history, the tennis here, so it's always fun to play here.  
   
 Q.   Andy, the USTA announced they're going to put a roof on the main stadium at Flushing Meadows.   I just wonder if you had any thoughts about that idea.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, yes, for certain reasons it's great.   For TV and stuff, it's fantastic.   Always good that you know matches are going to get finished.   
Yeah, I do feel like sometimes it is kind of part of the slams a little bit.   I don't necessarily miss being rained off, but rain delays and stuff, it used to be part of it; whereas now that's kind of going away gradually.   
I don't particularly like going from indoors to outdoors to indoors.   It's also tough.   But it's good for TV.   It's good for fans that are watching.   
For the players that are scheduled on that court, it's great.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's unfair to the ones who don't get to go out there?   They can be left behind, and then some players will be on course, you know, like with every other day.   
ANDY MURRAY:   I guess it can be.   I mean, I don't think there's been too many instances so far where it has been‑‑ the weather's been so bad that it has become unfair.   
I guess, if it did rain for three, four days straight, which is possible, then it would become a bit unfair for some of the guys.  
   
 Q.   People have talked about how the Wimbledon crowd gets rowdier under the roof or louder.   What do you think a US Open crowd would become amplified under a roof?   
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't think the crowd necessarily gets rowdier.   I just think, like anything indoors, if you went to a concert indoors compared to one outdoors, the noise level, I mean, everything just stays inside so it echos a bit more.   It does appear much louder.   
I don't know what's going to happen to the capacity, but with over 20,000 people in there, you stick a roof on it, it will be very loud.  
   
 Q.   What sort of reception do you think you're going to get this time in New York?   I mean, you've always got a pretty good reception, but you're going back there as a champion.   Has that thought occurred to you that it might be a little different this time?   
ANDY MURRAY:   I'm sure it will.   I mean, in terms of reception I don't know.   I mean, you never know.   I hope it's a good one.   
Yeah, in terms of how I'll feel when I'm going out there and stuff, I don't know how I'll respond and how I'll react.   
But, obviously a lot's happened since New York last year.   Ever since I played there the first time when I was 18, 19, when I used to play on the Grandstand Court, used to have great atmospheres in all of my matches there.   
Hope it will be the same this year.  
   
 Q.   I'm a little surprised that you're not more happy about the roof that the USTA proposing, because you were there a couple of years ago and it played havoc with the schedule and water bubbled up on the court.   You were part of the people that went and talked to the tournament.   I know you like to play an outdoor tournament outdoors, but don't you think that's a pretty strong solution?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Again, it is for some of the players, but the players weren't complaining about it raining outside.   The players were complaining about being made to go on the court when it's still wet.   So that doesn't change for 99% of the players in the draw just because there's a roof.   
Maybe the committee, the ones that do the schedule and stuff, will be a little bit more relaxed knowing that they will have some tennis on so they won't try and rush the players out.   
But that's what all the players were complaining about a few years ago when some of the courts were clearly unplayable, still wet:   getting us to go back on the court when it's still raining.   
It's dangerous.   It isn't like other sports.   You can't play tennis on hard courts when it's raining, and that was really what that discussion was about and all.   It wasn't about anything else.   
So long as the court's safe, players are happy to go on.  
   
 Q.   How'd you feel about the match today?   Did that go pretty much as you expected it to?   
ANDY MURRAY:   I thought he made more mistakes than I'd expected.   But he played yesterday, and very different conditions today because it was cool on the court.   
I just wanted to try to play a high‑percentage match because I think it's important for me to try to get a few matches this week, if I can.   
Yeah, I mean, I did that.   I didn't make too many errors.   Served a high percentage of first serves for the most part.   Missed a few at the end of the second.   
Yeah, I did what I wanted to do and got through the match.  
   
 Q.   Just wanted to follow up on that.   It sounded like in your TV interview you weren't real happy with your volley.   Can you talk about that?   Was something not working right for you in that regard?   
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   I just missed a couple of volleys.   I hit a couple of good ones and I hit a couple of bad ones.   I was getting myself into good positions but just missed a couple, and hopefully that will get better as the week goes on.   
When it comes to volleying, so long as you're getting yourself in a good position and you're making the right decisions like when to go forward and when to stay back, you know, that will come.   
It's when you're kind of coming in on the wrong shots and guys are passing you, you're kind of in no man's land when you come forward.   That's when it's an issue.   So hopefully that will get better.  
   
 Q.   How's your body felt through training and preparation this week?   And then also, do you think you'll be tuning in for the Scotland versus England international friendly this afternoon?   
ANDY MURRAY:   I'll try to watch if I can.   It should be starting fairly soon.   I'll try to watch it.   
In terms of my body, I feel better this week than I did last week.   Hopefully, that will continue for the next ten days or so up to New York.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT