COUPE ROGERS
August 8, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. GULBIS/A. Murray
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How do you analyze your match?   Obviously disappointed, or...   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I'm obviously disappointed not to win.   Actually hit the ball better today than I did yesterday.   I just got broken at the end of both sets.   I created a few chances.   I had 15‑30, 15‑40, two second serves.   Didn't play those points as well as I would have liked.   
There's obviously some things for me to work on, but I think that will come with playing matches.   Getting another doubles in today was good.   Obviously playing more points and stuff in practice, that's obviously what I need right now.   
   
 Q.   Over the last three years you have enjoyed a lot of success in other tournaments, but not in Canada.   Is it something maybe a bit of a slow start of the summer season?   Does it bother you or it's just normal because you want to peak at the US Open?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I think, you know, that the goal is to try and peak at the US Open.   But to do that you need to make sure you prepare yourself well.   Obviously I would have liked to have done better here.   
I've actually played well in previous years.   Last year I did come from the Olympics, playing on grass for a couple of months.   My body was a bit sore.   I had a bit longer to prepare this year.   I got here nice and early.   
But, yeah, you know, maybe I just need to make sure I get a few more matches in in practice in the future because these courts play very, very different to the grass.   First hard court tournament since March.   
   
 Q.   Wimbledon was pretty emotional for you.   Was it hard to get back to training?   Is it something that could have played in this game, to start your training again afterwards?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No, the training was fine.   I trained pretty well.   I normally go over to Miami earlier than I did.   I needed a bit more time after Wimbledon this year because it was pretty stressful.   It was a tough couple of weeks.   Although it was great to win, it was quite tiring going through that sort of stress and emotion.   Obviously, the few days after, extremely busy.   It's different.   I've never experienced that before in my life.   
Two full weeks off to recharge the batteries.   Probably could have done with five, six days more preparation.   I would have signed up for winning Wimbledon and having a few days less preparation, that's for sure (smiling).   
   
 Q.   You've talked about how you don't have the experience of coming in as the defending champion.   This will be the first time at the US Open.   Have you had time to think about how the motivation is different this time where you have more confidence versus maybe the hunger you had before when you hadn't done it yet?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I haven't really thought about it too much.   I think probably once I get to New York and start practicing there, I'm staying in the same hotel as I stayed last year, you know, I'll start to think about it a bit more.   
I haven't really thought too much about it.   I mean, you know, obviously with Wimbledon, then just trying to get myself ready for here, it's not something that's crossed my mind.   
But, yeah, it will be a different challenge mentally to make sure you're 100% focused and ready.   Hopefully I can play a good tournament.   
   
 Q.   Were you happy about your game in practice earlier this week and this was just a bad day?   
ANDY MURRAY:   It's getting there.   You can't expect to play perfect straightaway.   You know, it takes time.   I was playing a very good player today, as well, someone that gives you very little rhythm on the court.   That obviously doesn't help when you play against a very tough player.   
I played better in the doubles.   I played better today than I did yesterday.   That's all I can keep doing, is trying to keep improving every day.   Hopefully by the time the US comes around, I'm playing my best tennis.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT