COUPE ROGERS
August 7, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/M. Granollers
  6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us a little about the conditions today.   They were pretty difficult with the wind and everything.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it was very, very windy.   The balls that we use in these tournaments, they're very light, as well.   Sometimes if it's windy, but you're using a heavier ball, it's not too bad.   You can get into a bit of a rhythm and you get used to it.   When it's a light ball and it's very windy, it's very hard to control it and to get much confidence on the court.   
You need to make sure you move your feet extremely well.   But when you haven't played matches for a little while, that can be tricky, too.   That took me awhile to adjust my game.   
   
 Q.   First match since Wimbledon.   Happy with the way everything went?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, yeah.   I mean, the goal was to try to get through as many matches as possible this week.   Obviously, like you say, with the conditions the way they are, it was tricky.   My opponent, you know, is very confident now.   He had a good win yesterday, won the tournament the week before.   
I wanted to try to get through the match.   Just managed to do that in the end.   
   
 Q.   Every player seems to complain about the balls year after year.   Different ball used at the US Open, for example.   Why don't the players do something about it?   Can you do something about it?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, we try and do a lot of things about a lot of different things.   It's not easy.   
But, yeah, I mean, from a player's perspective, changing balls from week‑to‑week is not good.   If you ask a golfer to do that, to change their ball every week, they'd be hitting the ball everywhere.   
Marcel, for example, played on a different surface on Saturday.   He's playing with different balls, a different court, different continent a couple days later.   It's very, very difficult to adjust your game to that.   
From a player's point of view, it is difficult when you're changing every week.  
   
 Q.   Has anything changed for you since winning Wimbledon?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't think so.   I mean, the few days after were very, very busy.   It was a bit different to what I'm used to after events.   
But once I got back to training and stuff, everything kind of went back to normal.   Coming back to the tournaments and stuff, it feels the same.   
   
 Q.   Royal baby take some pressure off you?  
ANDY MURRAY:   That was a huge story.   Lot of pressure on that baby, that's for sure (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Now that you're heading into this part of the season as the defending US Open champion, has that changed your preparations at all, or are you treating it as you would any other year?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I think preparations stay pretty much the same.   It's a new experience for me.   I can say I will handle it well, but also I don't know.   I've never been in that position before.   
I'll do all of the same sort of things I did last year to get ready, stay in the same hotel, try and get comfortable in the same sort of surroundings, hopefully perform well.   
But it's probably not an easy thing to do, I would imagine.   I'll just have to wait and see how I deal with it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT