WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/T. Robredo
  6‑2, 6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   What's it like when you're playing as well as that against a tough guy? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, well, I mean, every set got tougher.   I think he started to feel much more comfortable around the middle of the second set.   He obviously had a breakpoint chance at 5‑4 in the second.   He got quite tight around that period. 
I mean, I hit the ball really, really well from the back of the court tonight from the first game, and that was pleasing because I served well the first couple of matches but maybe hadn't hit the ball quite as I would have liked. 
But playing under the roof, it's a bit easier probably to time the ball because there's no wind or anything.   So it was a good match. 

Q.   Two sets up, were you aware of Robredo's reputation for coming back and winning five‑setters? 
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, he's an extremely fit guy.   He works very, very hard and fights for every single point.   I mean, you know, the reputation came only from a couple weeks ago.   It wasn't something that he was known for.   It was just an amazing achievement at the French Open what he did.   I don't think it had been done for a long time. 
It's more what I read into it is he fights for every single point and you need to be ready for that.   Doesn't matter what the score is, he's going to chase balls down and make it very difficult.   And I was ready for that. 

Q.   You tweeted earlier in the day that you weren't that keen on the roof, or you missed not having the roof.   Does it make a big difference being under the roof?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it changes the way the court plays, for sure, yeah.   I mean, anyone will tell you that.   If you play on an outdoor hard court compared to indoors, it's just different conditions. 
Until, you know, they put the roof there, we're used to playing on indoor hard courts and indoor clay sometimes, but never on indoor grass.   So it's very, very different. 
That would have been‑‑ I'm sure Tommy, I mean, he's in his 30s and would never have played on indoor grass before.   So it's just different for everyone.

Q.   Quite useful to get a match under the roof, not like you can go out there and practice in those conditions, is it? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, no, you can't.   But, yeah, I would rather there was good weather and we played without the roof.   It's an outdoor tournament.   It's better if we get to play outside. 

Q.   You've been made aware of the fact we're all getting ahead of ourselves with some of the early exits of fancied players.   Is there even a part of your heart that lifts when you see Rafa going out, Federer going out, or do you not allow yourself to think about that?
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, I think there's a lot more pressure on me now with them being out.   I mean, I don't read the papers and stuff.   But there are papers in the locker room, so you see some of the headlines and stuff.   It's not that helpful (smiling). 
But, yeah, you need to be professional enough to not let that stuff bother you and just concentrate on each match.   I think I did a good job of that today.   I played well, my best match of the tournament so far. 

Q.   The Davis Cup coming up against Croatia.   Can you share some thoughts and compare the teams between 2007 and teams this year? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, completely different teams except for me and Marin probably.   I think we played here.   I think I won against Marin in five sets that day.   I think Ljubicic had kidney stones during that tie. 
But, I mean, they obviously probably have more depth than us.   But, you know, we have a couple of singles players that have won matches in Davis Cup beforehand, and we have a very good doubles team. 
So it will be an interesting match.   A tough one, but one that we can win. 

Q.   Serena said she would like to play you.   How realistic do you think the chance of that match is?
ANDY MURRAY:   I have no idea.   It depends if people would actually want to see it or not really.   That's what it would come down to.

Q.   Would you try and make it happen?
ANDY MURRAY:   It's not something I'm really going to push extremely hard to try and set up.   I don't think it would prove much for either of us. 
But if people would want to see it, then I would do it. 

Q.   You've got the weekend off now.   What are your plans between now and Monday?
ANDY MURRAY:   I'll probably practice a bit longer tomorrow.   Normally on the days off you practice for maybe an hour.   But I'll practice, I would have thought, about an hour and a half tomorrow.   Have a slightly tougher practice session.   Then Sunday we'll be back to the same sort of schedule. 
I haven't played that many times on the Friday at Wimbledon, so it's a little bit new for me.   I think maybe only once, maybe twice, in seven or eight years here.   But, yeah, I'll just try and stick to the same sort of schedule.   I think the guys meant to be playing today got canceled so I'll try to watch a little bit of that tomorrow if the timings work out.

Q.   Are you happier it's worked out this way for you this year?   Do you prefer that?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't really know.   I mean, the guys I'm playing will have had two days off now, and then will have one day off.   I mean, I have no idea whether it makes any difference. 
You know, Roger always played on Monday.   He had a pretty good record here.   But I don't know if it's got anything to do with the two days off over the weekend. 

Q.   Back to Davis Cup in September, how much will the fact that it will be played on clay make things difficult for you and the British team?
ANDY MURRAY:   I think, yeah, it will be difficult.   It's probably my worst surface.   But also I don't think it's Marin or Ivan Dodig's best surface, either. 
I'll have to see.   I've played Marin before on the clay at the French Open and won.   But, I mean, Davis Cup's different.   I'm sure it will be a tough match.   It will be very close. 

Q.   Keith was down with his guitar today.   I wondered if you managed to catch up.   What do you think of it? 
ANDY MURRAY:   What do I think of it, the song?   I think it's good.   I mean, he's got a good voice.   I mean, I've known him since I was 10 or 11 years old probably.   But, yeah, I haven't had the chance to catch up with him today.   I've obviously been busy and just finished now. 
But, yeah, I hope he's enjoyed the last few days.   Hope it was quite nice for him.

Q.   To what extent do you think we've seen the benefit you've had of practicing extra time on grass?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't think the way I'm playing has anything to do with that extra time.   I mean, normally by the time Wimbledon would come round, I felt pretty good coming into the tournament most years. 
I think it helped me at Queen's, for sure.   But, like I said, I'd much rather have been at the French Open than laying around for 10 days doing nothing.   I would have much rather been there than hitting on the grass. 

Q.   Share a couple words about Youzhny and Troicki. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Youzhny, I think I've only played him once on the tour maybe.   I think only once.   But he's a very good grass court player.   He was in the final in Halle.   Had a very tight match with Roger there.   Pretty sure he's been in the quarters here.   He's been in the second week numerous times.   He likes the courts.   He's a very talented guy. 
Troicki, I've had some good matches with him in the past.   I played well against him.   I know his game well.   I actually played him here, I think, a few years ago, as well.   But he started to play a lot better.   He didn't play so well last year, but he's having a much better year this year.   He changed coaches.   He's a good player.   He's extremely quick around the court. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT