AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 16, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/M. Cilic
  5‑7, 7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Which gave you the greater pleasure, winning the trophy or being able to contribute to that cause with all those exhibitions?
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, both are ‑‑they're great for different reasons.   You know, obviously the second part was a lot of fun, but I think, you know, it raised a lot of money for a really good cause. 
You know, it was something that I think it went very well.   I mean, I remember when I had the first conversation with Ross and Chris after the Australian.   I think they ended up doing a fantastic job.   It got much bigger than probably what we had expected, and, you know, I think it went really well.   Good way to finish the day.

Q.   (Question about Ivan.)
ANDY MURRAY:   I was just happy to hit him, to be honest.   (Smiling.)   The winning was irrelevant.   I was just happy to hit him. 
It was a great shot, as well.   I hit it so clean, so clean. 

Q.   Were you actually worried about if you had to go through the scenario of coming off court as a loser and go out to do the fun and games?   Was that ever a worry for you?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, because ‑‑yeah, I mean, regardless of what happened, you know, the match today was still a very good week.   And also, you know, Ross is one of my best friends, so whether I won or lost, it wasn't going to change the fact that we were still doing something really good.   Yeah, that wouldn't have mattered.

Q.   The match itself was a little up and down.   How did you read it?   You came good in the end. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Just made some bad mistakes when I was up in the first set like I had done in quite a few of the matches this week, and that was it.   But I kept trying to go for it.   I was trying to take chances, and, you know, I felt like I was dictating a lot of the points. 
There were a couple of games, you know, in the third set where it was 4‑1, I had some break points and he came up with big serves and was kind of hustling a bit, trying to get that second break. 
I created loads of chances today, a lot of chances.   You know, I think with a few more matches and a few more days' practice, I think, you know, I'll do a better job converting them and won't have, you know, the little slip‑ups I had this week.   But, you know, I got myself in such a great position in all of the sets and all of the matches that I played this week, so that was pleasing.

Q.   From where you were, say, a week ago today, you'd have settled for this, all the different types of matches and scenarios?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, I played, you know, two top players, two top grass court players the last couple of days, you know, and then tricky matches. 
Mahut is a very good grass court player.   That was a tough start for me, and, you know, with the rain delays and stopping and starting, it's been a long week, a lot of long days.
I'm happy I managed to finish it with a win.   And, yeah, obviously before the start of any week you sign up for a win.   But having not played for a while, it's more difficult.

Q.   How concerned were you when you fell over in that first set?   It sounded painful. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it hurts.   You know, you never know until you start moving around on it how it feels.   But, yeah, I mean, when you sort of do like the sort of splits, and you're not in control, yeah, it hurts the hips a little bit.
But, yeah, after, you know, a game or two I knew it was fine, but you still become a little more cautious with your movement for a few games, and, you know, maybe contributed to the way I finished the first set.

Q.   It's fine?   Everything else physically, you've come through fine this week?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I feel good.   I'm a bit tired just now.   It's been a long five days.
You know, the last couple of days were, you know, tough matches.   Because of the way that the weather worked out, it's been mentally a quite draining week.
So, you know, I'll go away and probably take a day off tomorrow and then start hitting on Tuesday but probably quite light and just get myself fresh and work on a couple of things in the buildup to Wimbledon.

Q.   Of all the celebs, Andy, which one would you say has the most promise as a player?
ANDY MURRAY:   The racquet that Boris Johnson was using, it was obviously wooden, the frame was bent.   So I don't know how he was hitting the ball with that.   (Smiling.)   Yeah, that was ‑‑he was quite impressive, but Michael McIntyre came up with some good shots, as well. 

Q.   Twitter is debating about some comments about whether you were donating your players money to the cause as well as the money raised from run against cancer. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I haven't spoken to anyone about it.   I mean, I don't ‑‑most of the time I have done stuff for charity I don't say too much about it just because it's not ‑‑I don't always think it looks great, because sometimes people are kind of doing it for the wrong reasons.   But I haven't said anything to him about it. 

Q.   You look in good shape as Wimbledon is a week away.   People are never going to stop talking.   Where do you think you stand compared with previous years?   Stronger?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I think‑‑ I mean, the last few years, I mean, I've gone into it in pretty good shape.   To be honest, most years really I've gone into Wimbledon in good condition.
I haven't always had loads of matches here.   It hasn't affected the way I've played at Wimbledon.
You know, the most important thing, next week or so is just to make sure, you know, I keep improving the strength of my back and, you know, make sure there's no sort of setbacks and just keep working hard on the rehab for that.
And then, yeah, when Wimbledon comes round, it's all about how you play.   It's very easy to say someone is in good form when they're not.   A week is a long time in sport.   You know, anything can happen.   You can lose a bit of confidence; you can gain confidence.   You can pick up a niggle; you can feel 110%.   You never know.
But, you know, I'm in a good place and I just keep working hard the next week.

Q.   You talk about a week being a long time in sport.   I think we find this week the most exacting building up to it.   Do you as well?   Do you find the week between here and Wimbledon you actually want to get going?   It's hard to relax?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, always this week, it's a long week for me for obvious reasons.   Yeah, once the tournament gets going, it feels like it settles down for me a little bit.
But, yeah, with each year that passes, you kind of know what sort of stuff you can and can't do, and, you know, what's going to get you in the best mindset for the tournament and physically get myself in the best shape possible.
So it's a long ‑‑it's a long week, this one, but I'm experienced enough to deal with it and go into Wimbledon with no issues. 

Q.   Does it feel any different heading towards Wimbledon having the gold medal, US Open?
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, obviously it helps, but I'd say that happens in every single tournament.   It's not different just because it's Wimbledon.   You know, all of the Slams or the big events or big matches that I play in now, I would hope that, you know, I'd have a little bit more confidence in myself and a bit more belief, but just because it's Wimbledon doesn't mean that, you know, because I won the US Open I'm going to do great there or because I played well on the grass last year.   There's no guarantees at all in sport.
So you just ‑‑you've got to go in there, work hard, and be prepared to go through some tough moments and find a way to deal with them.   Hopefully I can do that at Wimbledon.

Q.   Three times a Queen's winner.   That's not been done too many times.   Sum up how you feel right now having won that trophy after the last month you have had. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, it's nice because it's not an easy tournament to win.   You know, you have a lot of ‑‑you look at the list of players that have won this.   Some of the greatest players that have played have won here, and they always get a really, really strong field with top grass court players. 
To come through after the last three, four weeks is really, really nice.   You know, hopefully I can add to that next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT