AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 16, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Well done, Andy.   Take you back a month ago.   You were injured.   Now here you are with a title, a magnificent trophy.   Quite a comeback. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I worked very hard in the time that I had off to try and get myself off in the best shape possible, and I couldn't do it obviously without my team.   They have helped me a lot.   They have been very patient with me. 
Yeah, they're why I was able to come out and play so tough the last two matches.

Q.   I have a feeling your physio could have been a bit worried about what happened in that first set.   Talk us through it. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, the courts have been‑‑ you know, they have taken a bit of a pounding this week.   It's been extremely wet, and I think I just caught my ‑‑yeah, we'll see it.   It's a bit sore on the groin area.   Thankfully it wasn't too bad. 

Q.   You were up against a really tough guy today, though.   He had you worried. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, he's one of the best grass court players in the world.   Me and Marin, we have played against each other since juniors, and we have had a lot of close matches and tight matches. 
I was lucky to come through in the end because he was playing great tennis, especially towards the end of the second set and I got a little bit lucky at the end of that set.

Q.   I was going to say that Kim is sitting over there, standing over there at the moment, your girlfriend, and yet you blew a kiss to someone up on the stand up there. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I don't know how many of you know the story, but I hope everyone can stick around.   We are playing an exhibition match right after we're done with this nonsense. 
But my best friend over there, Ross Hutchins, he was diagnosed with cancer about six months ago, and he's ‑‑I mean, he's dealt with it incredibly well.   He's been so brave and he just finished his last treatment on Thursday.
So all of the money that's raised for the exhibition match and everything that's gone with it is going to go through Royal Marsden, a charity which has helped Ross get through it.   If everyone can stay, we'd appreciate it. 
(Applause.)

Q.   It's been such a tough time for Ross and I know very emotional for you.   Ivan Lendl has been talking this match up a lot.   Are you looking forward to it?
ANDY MURRAY:   I honestly want to win this match more than the one we just played (laughter).
I have to spend a week with him before Wimbledon, the preparations, and if me and Tim lose to him he's going to be all over me.   I hope you guys are on our side. 

Q.   You know what?   He says if you hit him, he's going to have you doing drills at 7:30 tomorrow morning. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I'm going to hit him.   That's the plan.   We have been talking about it all week.   I will give it a go.

Q.   Thank you for letting me hold the microphone this time.   I wish you well.   I know you have to get ready for this big match. 
Ladies and gentlemen, Queen's Club champion, Aegon champion. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT