AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 15, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/J. Tsonga
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Well done in the end?
ANDY MURRAY:   I turned it around well in the second set, and put it back in on my serve to get broken at 4‑All on the first, but he had some chances beginning of the second, and I came up with a couple of good shots.   Once I got the break, I played much better.

Q.   Thanks for finishing on our deadline.   Do you get a sense of urgency sometimes with the light coming in and trying to get the match out of the way, or is it hard to maintain a sense of calm?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I mean, we still ‑‑I mean, there is still time.   You know, the main worry was just, couple of times at the beginning of the match, it looked like it was going to start raining again, a few drops, but the clouds and the rain just missed us.   And that's what's frustrating, because, you know, you want to play the match and have the match finished so that, you know, the tournament can go on properly rather than having, you know, a semifinal and a final tomorrow.   It's really not fair on the guys that have to play the semifinal.   And, you know, we heard that the weather might be really bad tomorrow, as well.
So, you know, possibly having a final or not finishing the semi, and having to go to semifinal into Monday just wouldn't be great.   It was good to get done.

Q.   Were you part of the discussion about moving the matches, you know, going to 1?   How did that evolve as far as you were concerned?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I mean, we just got asked, you know, how long, you know, we needed to get ready, and, you know, I think it was like 45 minutes pretty much from when we got told, because obviously we needed to sort of stretch and hydrate and, you know, then warm up basically.
But, yeah, it's not the players' decision.

Q.   Did you beat him at table football, as well?
ANDY MURRAY:   Comfortably.

Q.   How comfortably?
ANDY MURRAY:   Very comfortably.

Q.   What would you have felt if you had been in Lleyton's and Marin's position and they had to switch courts, something like that?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think, for the person that loses that match, yeah, it's not a good situation to be in, you know.   Once you start on a match, especially in a semifinal, you're going to want to finish on that court, you know.
And Lleyton is also a great player.   He's played really well here over the course of his career.   So I think for him it was, you know, it was obviously a tough situation. 
But, you know, I think ‑‑it's not so much ‑‑I think from the players' perspective, it's not so much that was the decision that was made, it was more that it kind of happened really quickly, and, you know, I think that's why the frustration was there.
But it's a tough situation for everyone, really.   It's tough for the players, tough for the people that come to watch, and, you know, the people that are organizing the tournament.   You know, it's a no‑win situation, really.

Q.   Was there a better way of doing it?   What would have been a better way?
ANDY MURRAY:   To be honest, I don't really know.   I think, you know, if we're going to get into that situation, maybe it would have been better if maybe Jo and I had played the first semi, and then that wouldn't have happened.
But obviously with the way the schedule worked out, me and Jo obviously played late the day before, so normally what happens is the guys that played late the day before play the second match, semifinals.
But that's really the only other way, you know, you wouldn't have gotten in that situation was if we played the first match.

Q.   When you have been out for a while, is there any sense of relief when the second and third sets, when you start playing that level, go up another level?   How does that feel, you think?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think most of the matches there has been patches where I played a high level, and all the matches it's been parts where, you know, I have been a little bit inconsistent or just played a couple of sloppy games.
I managed to find ways to win the matches, which is important, and, you know, I'm playing well.   I'm hitting the ball well.   Just sometimes making some bad choices or some poor mistakes.
Like I said yesterday, that will come with playing matches, so it's been a very productive week for me, and it's great to be in the final and, you know, with the match tomorrow and a good week, good week's practice before Wimbledon, it's looking good.

Q.   How much better do you feel and happier with yourself do you feel now than you did at the start of the week?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I'm much happier.   I think this week it was‑‑ I said yesterday you don't always come into, you know, this tournament with high expectations because, you know, you haven't had that long to prepare, and it's always a tough draw here.
You know, I have lost in the first round last year and had my best run at Wimbledon, but I think really because I missed the French Open it's really, really important for me to get matches in this week.   If I had lost my first match to Mahut and going into Wimbledon and having played one match in six or seven weeks, you know, that's tough if you want to win the event.
So it was really important for me to get some matches.

Q.   I saw Mark Bender was in your player's box today.   Have you been working with him?
ANDY MURRAY:   I spent like about five days with him after Madrid ‑‑sorry, after Rome I came back, and then I saw him for four or five days.   Then, yeah, we asked him if he wanted to come along and watch because he was a big help.

Q.   In the sense of preparation for Wimbledon, come tomorrow do you feel like what you have achieved already has put you in absolutely the place where you want to be going into Wimbledon now?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, and in an ideal world I would have been fit during the clay court season because, you know, physically that's where you get a lot of work done, and the French Open is very testing for you, so then when you come to Wimbledon, you know, playing a five‑set match on grass is challenging.
But, you know, with the situation I was in, I mean, this week has gone well.   I have had, you know, a good win today against a top player, and, you know, providing I get some good practice in next week and don't take my eye off the ball and just be content, I have had a good week here, if I get five, six days' good practice in, then hopefully I will be in a very good place come Wimbledon.

Q.   You have a very good record against Marin.   How do you see the final?
ANDY MURRAY:   It will be a very tough match.   He plays well here.   He's won nine matches in a row, and he's beaten some very tough, top grass court players this week. 
Yeah, I mean, I'll try to play a good match tomorrow and, you know, regardless of what happens for me, it's a good step in the right direction, another tough match against, you know ‑‑he's one of the top 10 grass court players in the world, I would say. 
You know, I'll see a little bit more about where my game is at and what I need to work on and look forward to it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT