AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 14, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/B. Becker
  6‑4, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tough conditions at times again today, but did you feel to an extent that that became a bit harder than it should have been?
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   All the matches this week are going to be tough because I haven't played a match for a month.   So, you know, they're going to be tough, and there's going to be moments in the matches where, you know, your level drops a little bit.
That's happened, you know, the last couple of matches.   So, you know, with playing matches and getting, I guess, match tight, you know, I'll avoid those slip‑ups. 
But it's important to sort of go through them and come out the other side of them with a win, and I managed to do that the last couple of days.

Q.   Is it a physical thing?   Is it a concentration thing? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Considering having not played matches, you know, Ben, you know, made the final in Nottingham last week and he's come through three matches here.   You know, he's played a lot of tennis on the grass, and he started playing a lot better towards the end of the second set when I played a poor game at 2‑1. 
That just comes with playing matches and also the first week on the grass, as well.   You know, all of the guys have had, you know, dips in matches and in sets.   It happens.

Q.   If it is Jo that you play in the semis, how much of a step up will that be for you?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it will be a big step up and also a really big test for me, because, you know, he's been playing some great tennis the last couple of months.   He obviously had a very good run at the French Open, and he's a top grass court player.   He's one of the best in the world on this surface. 
I have had some tough matches with him on the grass before, so tomorrow will be the same.

Q.   Is he one of the players you enjoy playing against?   Nice style to play against?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   I mean, I like playing against all of the top players, because, you know, it's challenging.   And most of the guys, you know, have a different style from, you know, Rafa to Roger to Novak to Jo, you know, Del Potro.   They're all different heights, left‑handers, right‑handers, single‑handed backhands.   It's always good to play against them. 
Jo plays a pretty all‑court game.   He comes in to net more than most of the players.   He's a tough player to play.

Q.   Having had the back injury, has it been in your mind at all in matches at all this week, and particularly on grass, which can be slippery, do you ever just hold back at all, thinking about your back?
ANDY MURRAY:   I haven't done this week, so that's a good sign.   My back's been very good, the best it's been for a while.
So, you know, obviously when you start feeling things, that tends to be when you hold back.   But, yeah, this week that's not been the case.

Q.   Have you seen anything of Hewitt's run through the week?   What do you think of his achievements this week?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I saw his match today with Del Potro, and he played very well.   I practiced with him a few times the week before the tournament.   He got here early from the French Open.   He's obviously spent some time on the grass and he loves it here.   He's got a great record here.
Yeah, he still competes incredibly well, and, you know, it's no surprise to see him causing upsets.

Q.   I'm wondering what it's like playing here.   The crowd can be slightly less animated, shall we say, than most places.   Does that kind of permeate through to you or make it more difficult?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I have always played, you know, fairly well here.   It's never been something I have really thought about, you know, during the matches.
You know, I prefer playing when the crowd is full.   Most days here they have a packed stadium.   You know, sometimes it can be tough when, you know, the crowd is empty at tournaments when there is only a few people, because you notice noises more or people moving around a little bit more.
Here, it's never been like that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT