AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 13, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Andy, was that just the kind of match you needed to get you back into the swing?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think it was a tough start.   He hit some great volleys today, especially made it very difficult in the second set, but it was very tough to get into a rhythm. 
You know, when we stopped I think three times yesterday and obviously coming back today, you're a little bit nervous, a little bit anxious, you know, when you have to sort of finish a match off the following day.   But managed to come through in the end and hopefully that's a good warmup for later.

Q.   You haven't played for a while.   How much have you actually missed competing?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, a lot.   I mean, I've played in every slam for seven years, so missing the French Open was extremely difficult, and I realized how much it means to me just to be able to be on the court competing. 
Obviously this is a great court to come back to when you haven't played for a month, to get great support from the crowd for the first match.   I've always enjoyed it.

Q.   The crowd want to know this, and I'm sure you're bored of talking about it, but how is the back?
ANDY MURRAY:   It felt great, especially, you know, with the conditions, it was obviously very cold.   I'm sure everyone in here knows when you have a sore back that cold conditions don't help. 
And starting and stopping yesterday I was wondering how it might stiffen up in between, but it feels really good, so I'm pleased with that.   That was probably the most satisfying thing about the match.

Q.   I asked Jo‑Wilfried Tsonga, because you will have to play again perhaps in a couple hours' time, I asked him what he was going to do in between matches and he said sleep.   What are you going to do?   
ANDY MURRAY:   I'll probably try and sleep a little bit.   Dan Evans is on next, so I will watch a little bit of that match and it will be a fun one, see how he gets on there, try and rest up and get ready for this afternoon. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT