MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 10, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. BERDYCH/A. Murray
  7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   As well as you played tonight, I'm sure you'll be kicking yourself a little bit because you had the 4‑3 lead in the first and lead in the second as well. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I had the 4‑3 lead and I had game points, maybe three game points on my serve in the next game, and then I think I had breakpoints in the next game at 4‑All as well.   He played a better tiebreak than me. 
Then, yeah, second set, again I had chances there.   Went a break down and then got it back and then had break chances to go up. 
So, yeah, that's obviously frustrating.   I didn't convert too many opportunities the whole week really.   I managed to dig out of the last couple of the matches, and wasn't obviously able to do that tonight.
Need to do a better job of taking my chances. 

Q.   Hard to know with just a handful of matches, but where do you see your form on clay this year compared to previous years?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it is difficult to say.   I mean, it is very different here, and especially playing in the night as well.   Obviously the French Open you play most of your matches during the day, so it's normally hotter, the ball is bouncing a bit here.
It was sort of different matches the last couple days because the ball was bouncing quite low and there wasn't really any sort of high, spinny balls.   It's a bit different to what you normally see on the clay.
So last couple of matches may be a bit hard to judge.   I played decent tonight.   I need to do a better job of taking my chases.   If I had done that, it was a close match; I could have won. 

Q.   You seem to be holding your left hip at the start of the matches the last two nights.   Anything to worry about there?
ANDY MURRAY:   Just little back issue I had last couple of years on the clay.   Just a bit sore at the beginning of the matches, and then once I warmed up, started to feel a little bit better. 
But I did also play a very long match yesterday.   You know, I finished extremely late, and it was a bit stiffer probably than usual at the beginning.
Once I warmed up I felt better. 

Q.   You've always talked about clay as kind of being a work in progress for you.   Where would you say that progress is at the moment going into Rome first and then obviously the French after that? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, this week was better than Monte‑Carlo, so it's going in the right direction.   Tomas is a very good clay‑court player.   And, yeah, it was a close match.   I had my chances. 
You know, I think I'm playing okay.   Some things I would like to do better, but I did play very well in practice in the buildup to this tournament.   I played a lot of sets with a lot of tough players and I played very well.
So that's a good sign.   But like I say, it is different playing in the night to the day.   So you have to change some of your shots a little bit. 
In Rome the next couple of days I'll get a better feel for how I'm playing. 

Q.   I presume it's never easy to finish a match at 1:00 and go to bed 4:00 in the morning and come back and play another match against a very good player.   I know you wouldn't make an excuse, but give us a sense of how tough that is to recover and play the next night?
ANDY MURRAY:   I felt much better than I expected to.   It's obviously not that often you finish at that time.   But the thing that's hard is that you know you're a couple of weeks away from playing‑‑ it's a really important stretch, this one.
You need to make sure that when you finish you do all the right recovery stuff and eat properly.   Last night after the match I did my ice bath, I had a proper meal, a stretch, and a massage.
You do all the right things, but that obviously means going to bed at just after 4:00, which isn't perfect.   But you have to do it sometimes.   Matches do run on.   It happens sometimes in the slams as well.   Difference there is you get an extra day off. 
But, yeah, it's happened a couple of times this week.   The Spaniards like starting late, so just got to deal with it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT