MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 9, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/G. Simon
  2‑6, 6‑4, 7‑6

Q.   Obviously goes without saying, great to get the job done having put yourself through so much in the match. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, I think the third set, I put myself through a lot I think the first set and he played extremely well.
He adjusted to the conditions very well.   He was hitting the ball very close to the line and I was finding it tough to get out of out of his strike zone.
I went behind in the second set and changed tactics a little bit.   I just managed to scratch through. 
Third set, yeah, started to play better.   Could have made it a little bit easier for myself.   I had a lot of chances and just didn't get them.   In the end, managed to come through.

Q.   Seemed like such hard work.   How are you actually feeling?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, it's tough.   It's very, very different conditions.   Any professional athlete will tell you it's difficult when you spend the whole day waiting to go on. 
Sometimes you might come out a little bit flat.   He came out very, very well and I didn't adjust as quickly as I would have liked.   That was the difference at the start.

Q.   Obviously the experience in tight situations like that now really must help you when it gets so close.   Not just the tiebreaker, but all the final games were tight, weren't they?
ANDY MURRAY:   Experience didn't really show because I had a lot of match points and I was up a break and I had chances all way through and just couldn't quite get them.

Q.   Just get the last point as Mr.Lendl keeps telling you. 
ANDY MURRAY:   That's all that's important.   That's what I needed to do today.   It wasn't a pretty or my best match, but I won.   I gave myself an opportunity to get through to the semis tomorrow.

Q.   And with that quarterfinal final coming so hot on the heels, recovery must be important.   We're talking to you in the bed here.   What are you going to do for the next little while?
ANDY MURRAY:   Get on the bike, have a shower, stretch, massage, and, yeah, I mean, try and get to bed as quickly as possible because sleeping is the best form of recovery. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT