MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 18, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WAWRINKA/A. Murray
  6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Difficult to know what to make of it.   2‑Love, you started so well.   What was your reading of it from there?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, made a lot of mistakes.   Just looked at the stats on the way up the stairs.   24 unforced errors is far too many.   That's a set's worth.   That's where half the points went. 
He served well.   He won some points from there.   Yeah, when I started making a lot of errors, I started hitting the ball shorter, then he was able to dictate all of the points from there. 
When you do that on clay, when you make a lot of unforced errors, your response to it is to take your foot off the gas on the shots.   If you don't give any power or spin on the ball, it's easy to dictate the point to your opponent. 

Q.   Looking over your career, this first week on clay is always one of the hardest weeks for you. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, I don't know.   It's tough to say.   I've played some good tournaments here.   But, yeah, it does take me time to feel comfortable on the surface. 
I need matches against top players to see what's going wrong and what's going right, things I need to work on to get better. 
Normally towards the end of the clay court season, I start to feel better with my game and I've had some good results, but at the start I have struggled a little bit. 

Q.   Any thoughts on why specifically you were making those mistakes today?
ANDY MURRAY:   Tough to say because yesterday I wasn't making them.   I don't know exactly.   Sometimes it happens.   You know, sometimes you're not quite feeling the ball.   Today was one of those days. 

Q.   How much does it bother you to lose a match in this way? 
ANDY MURRAY:   It's disappointing, yeah.   No one wants to lose matches like that.   But hopefully I can use it as motivation to improve because I need to do a lot of work. 
Sometimes, you know, you can squeeze through matches and not necessarily play well; you don't actually see what's gone wrong because you've won the matches, so you think it's okay. 
Obviously I'll need to work really hard over the next sort of two weeks to get myself ready for Madrid. 

Q.   What is the main thing after a match like this you need to correct immediately in your game?
ANDY MURRAY:   I think just try and cut down the mistakes and make sure I'm able to dictate more of the points by getting better depth on the ball.   I think that will help. 

Q.   What part of your game did Wawrinka expose today?
ANDY MURRAY:   'Exposed'?   I don't know. 

Q.   Or that you felt weaker on? 
ANDY MURRAY:   I made a lot of mistakes, from both sides.   I would have to watch the match again.   I mean, you're not thinking about every single point.   What's happened, you're just trying to focus on what you need to do to try to get yourself back in the match. 
I'll obviously have a look and see exactly what I need to do to get better and make sure I don't have any more matches like that. 

Q.   Were you a little disappointed you weren't able to get yourself pumped from the side of the court, energize yourself at any stage?   Sometimes you get yourself back into things by getting yourself into it. 
ANDY MURRAY:   I think on this surface especially, that's something that's important for me, make sure I dig in for every single point.   You know, I wasn't getting to many balls to get myself into a lot of sort of longer rallies, you know, make it tougher for him, which normally I'm able to find a way of doing that. 

Q.   Everyone has bad days.   Was this just a bad day?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I hope so, yeah.   I mean, I hope that's not going to be the case over the next five, six weeks. 
I've had tough losses on the clay before and I've come back well from them.   Hopefully today will be the same. 

Q.   Do you think it will be any concern going into Madrid being undercooked in terms of match play, considering you're not playing Barcelona?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   I need to make sure I get good practice in, that's for sure, over the next two weeks.   Yeah, I mean, I don't know.   We'll have to wait and see what happens when Madrid comes round. 
I hope that's not the case.   I played a lot of matches this year, obviously just not on the clay.   So it shouldn't be necessarily the match play.   The issue is certain things I need to iron out in my game, things I need to work on. 

Q.   Where will that practice be and who will you practice with?
ANDY MURRAY:   I was planning on staying here till Friday of next week, then go back to London for four or five days, then get to Madrid early. 

Q.   With this defeat, you drop to No. 3.   Any significance to that at all?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, again, we'll have to wait and see whether it makes any difference.   I said at the time in Miami that the only slight advantage it could have is with seedings, but it could also work against me with seedings, as well. 
If Rafa is ranked No.5 come the French Open, it could work the other way, too.   It doesn't make a huge difference.   I'll just try and get back up the rankings as best I can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT