MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 17, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/E. Roger‑Vasselin
  6‑1, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Pretty happy with that, Andy?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, it was a good start.   I played pretty well for all of the match.   Yeah, didn't make too many mistakes.   Yeah, it was good. 

Q.   Did the training you did on clay come into play a lot today?
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, not right now it won't.   It takes time.   It doesn't matter how much training you do, until you get the matches and the feel of how to play under pressure, it's completely different. 
So I think over the next few weeks, the more time I get to spend on the court practicing and playing matches, that combined will help me play better. 
But, you know, I think the first match, you're just trying to win.   You try to play solid.   You don't take too many risks.   It was good. 

Q.   Can you talk about the decision you took to work with Mahesh Bhupathi?   Do you like this other side of the game?
ANDY MURRAY:   The business side? 

Q.   Yes, the business side of the game.   What do you expect?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I think all of the players obviously take an interest in it because it's an extremely long year and we travel all over the world.   You need to make sure all of the things you're doing off the court are taken good care of. 
The next four or five years of my life are going to be I think some of the most important for me.   So you want to make sure you have the right people around you.   That's why I made the decision to change some of the people I work with, like Ugo.   I hope they do a good job for me. 

Q.   How many people more or less are taking care of Andy Murray?   Apart from Lendl, physio, another coach or assist and coach, then you have Bhupathi, then you have Ugo.   Do you have any idea how many are involved in your business side?
ANDY MURRAY:   In the business side, yes.   It's not particularly complicated.   I have Ugo, who does all of the tennis things.   Mahesh will do the commercial stuff.   Then I work with a company like every other tennis player was.   I know Rafa and Roger have just changed to work with their individual agents they've had for a long time. 
As far as I'm aware, that's how it works with every tennis player that's near the top of the game.   On the women's side, they have a lot of people that work in fashion, that sort of stuff.   It's part of our careers.   We need to have the best people around us.

Q.   You also have media PR? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I have someone. 

Q.   Now Ugo is working for Del Potro and you.   Can there be any sort of problem, you think?
ANDY MURRAY:   Give me an example of what a problem can be. 

Q.   I have no idea.   I'm just asking you. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I'm asking you, what problem could there be? 

Q.   There is an exhibition in South America.   They want to see Del Potro. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Maybe they want to see Del Potro and Murray so we can play against each other. 
I don't see any problems with a lot of the companies like IMG, for example.   There's been times where they've had five of the top 10 players in the world.   Yeah, you could say there's a conflict, but they've done a great job with a lot of different athletes.   So I don't see a problem. 

Q.   Next opponent, Wawrinka. 
ANDY MURRAY:   It will be a tough match.   Good test for me.   He's played some good tennis this year.   He obviously enjoys the surface, has had some good results on it in the past. 
I'll need to play well tomorrow to win that match. 

Q.   Was that as comfortable as you felt starting a clay court season?   You looked confident all the way through. 
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   It's tough to say.   I mean, it was a good start.   I mean, I went up 4‑0.   But he also had a breakpoint in the first game.   I broke him from 40‑Love.   He had quite a few chances at the beginning of the match. 
But I got up.   I won the close games, which was important. 
But, yeah, I didn't make too many mistakes.   It was solid.   I returned well, served well.   If you do those two things well on any surface, you know, it gives you a good base to work from. 
It was a good start. 

Q.   Novak was saying earlier about the umpires and the need perhaps to warn the players, a discussion before the match, talk them through the time situation, what they're going to do.   Do you agree with that?   Seems a lot of people are very confused. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think it's a rule that I personally in the four months that it's been there, I haven't once seen the receiver get the warning for taking too long, which can't be right.   The receiver tends to be the one doing more of the running most of the time when you're playing the points 'cause, you know, the guys are serving well these days. 
So I don't quite know why that would be.   You know, sometimes the guy serving is ready, but the guy that's receiving might be playing with his strings.   Are you meant to just serve and see what happens?   I don't really know.   Always seems to be the server that gets punished. 
I think something needs to change there because normally when you look up to the umpire when you're serving, he's always staring at you.   He's looking at his clock and he's looking at you.   I think that's the one gray area, as well as there not being a clock on the court, which I think there should be. 

Q.   You look much stronger this year.   Compared from last year, the clay court season last year, starting from the match today, do you feel stronger?
ANDY MURRAY:   Physically or just in general? 

Q.   Physically, the movement.   You just look stronger this year. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, last year I had a problem with my back.   I think it was the year before that I had a problem with my elbow here.   I got a few injuries during the clay court season the last couple years which probably didn't help me get ready for some of the events.   It is a surface I need to practice a lot, I need to play matches on, because I don't feel that comfortable on it straightaway. 
I've been healthy for the most part of this year.   My body feels good after playing three months on the hard courts.   Coming to the clay, it's a bit easier on the body. 
Yeah, it's been a good start.   Hopefully I can keep building on it. 

Q.   Do you think there should be a difference in terms of seconds if you play on clay when rallies are longer than somewhere else, grass or so?   And, you know, in Italy there are certain regions where people are considered tight with money.   We always heard a lot of jokes about the Scottish.   I'd like to know if that reputation is wrong, and what do you think about it?
ANDY MURRAY:   I think there's people that are tight with their money everywhere.   That's a generalization.   I mean, I can't say.   It's best to ask the people I work with whether I'm tight with my money. 

Q.   I'm not asking about you, just the Scottish in general. 
ANDY MURRAY:   I would say not.   No smoke without fire. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT