SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 29, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/R. Gasquet
  6‑7, 6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Did it turn at the beginning of the second?   Once you got that lead, were you feel more confident?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, the first set was a tough one to lose, because I obviously served for the set and then, you know, at the end of the set you kind of look up at the stats and I had hit over 20 winners and lost the set.
So I realized I had to cut out the unforced errors.   I did a good job of that.   Halfway through the second set I started to find the right way to play, the right shots to go for.   Did well after that.

Q.   How would you rate your overall performance tonight?
ANDY MURRAY:   It was a good match.   I could have made it easier on myself.   I would have played a better game when I was serving for the first set, but I didn't. 
I responded well from that, you know, and obviously he struggled in the third set with his movement.   But, you know, I just had to take care of my own side of the net.   I did a good job of that.

Q.   The 30‑somethings are having quite a tournament here.   You face another one on Sunday.   Do we have a trend on our hands?   Is there something going on that's made the game more inviting for guys in their 30s, able to hang around longer?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, this is the thing.   Everyone this week, it has been quite interesting.   People are saying we need to speed up the courts because guys are not going to be able to play as long.   But then, on the other hand, guys are reaching their peak later in their careers. 
You know, a lot of the guys that used to play serve and volley had a lot of problems with their backs and their knees and hips, you know, and finished when they were 28, 29 years old.
I think now it seems like guys are able to play longer or guys maybe aren't breaking through at such a young age.   You know, the average age at the top 100 has increased by a few years since I first came on the tour.   I think, you know, the game has got more physical.
But, you know, guys are probably training better.   You know, there is better training methods and people probably understanding how to recover from matches better and, you know, learning new things all the time about how the body works.
So that's probably one of the reasons why the older guys are doing better now.

Q.   You see a guy like Haas, 34, can you envision yourself hanging around that long?
ANDY MURRAY:   Who knows?   The thing with Tommy, he has had a lot of injuries during his career.   You know, he's quite a young 34 in that respect.   He's missed probably three, four years, I would say, through injuries and various issues.
But, yeah, if the body permits, then, you know, I would hope so, but, you know, you never know.   You know, you touch wood you don't have any surgeries, but that can happen and depends how you recover from them as you get older.

Q.   Do you feel an expectation to win now that you're the last remaining member of the Big 4 in the tournament?
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   I mean, I don't really look into that too much during any of the events, because, you know, this tournament is a perfect example that‑‑ you know, Novak obviously losing to Tommy is a big surprise.   On any given day in an individual sport, if you play per match you're out of the tournament.
Whether the other guys, you know, around the top are here or not, it doesn't change my approach to any of the matches.   David, after this week, will be in the top 4 again, and he deserves to be there because of his consistency.   He's also started to play the last few years better in the big events.   He made quarters of Wimbledon, semis of the French Open, semis of the Australian Open, semis of the US Open.
You know, he's not struggling to play well in the big events.   So that's why he's there, and he'll be a very tough match on Sunday.

Q.   You said before when you played Novak you prepare for a physical war.   It's a bit like that with Ferrer, as well, isn't it?
ANDY MURRAY:   Against all the guys, you know, the top of the game right now, the matches are very tough physically.   Rafa is the same, as well. 
When you play against him, you know, the points tend to be very physical because the guys move extremely well.   You know, Ferrer has a great attitude on the court.   He fights for every single point.
You're going to have to do more running than against some players that may be 30‑Love or 40‑Love, may just miss or give you a point almost.   You know, it's not like that with him.   He plays every single point hard, and that's why it's tough against him.

Q.   Your Olympics doubles partner is in the final here.   Did you follow her match today?
ANDY MURRAY:   I didn't see it.   We were on our way over here when the match was going on, so, yeah, I haven't seen any of the doubles this week.
But, no, it's very good for Laura, you know, winning matches at this level.   You know, it gives you confidence whether it's singles, doubles, mixed doubles, whatever.   It doesn't really matter.
So it will be good for her to have done well here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT