SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 28, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/M. Cilic
  6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Through to the semis without dropping a set.   That's a pretty good run so far.   
ANDY MURRAY:   I think today was probably the best match for me.   It was a tough, tough match.   Second set especially was a lot of long, long games, tough points.   Yeah, just managed to come through that.   Obviously took a while to get to the finish line, but I thought I played a solid match, not too many errors and was tough in the important moments.  
   
 Q.   You seemed to mix it up even more today than you do against some other guys.   Was that because it was Marin or just the way you were feeling today?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, it's not an easy thing to do unless you're feeling comfortable on the court.   I think with each match I start to play a little bit better, feel a little bit more comfortable with the conditions.   
Sort of been able to control the ball better, so using some slice and higher balls, and variation work went well today.  
   
 Q.   He started to play particularly well around about the fourth game in the second set.   Did you find your level rising as a result of that?   Is that something that often happens?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think ‑‑I mean, I played a long, tough game to hold.   I think it was the 2‑1 game.   You know, he had a couple of break points and it was a really tough physical game.   
And then after that, I mean, he started to play more aggressive.   He started trying to come to net and trying to finish some of the points a bit quicker, and, you know, change his style a little bit.   When guys make adjustments during matches, you obviously have to recognize that and do something about it yourself.  
I think I dealt with that fairly well.  
   
 Q.   Ivan said yesterday in the interview that if you get to No. 2 there is a possibility for the clay season that Rafa, Novak, and Roger could be in the same half.   Is that something you have thought of at all?  
ANDY MURRAY:   It could also mean that I could also have all those guys in my quarter or half at the French Open, as well, you know.   So, I mean, I always say before the major events, especially on the clay for me, there is no guarantees of me getting through any matches at the French Open.   And, you know, I don't play well.   That's a surface I have struggled on in the past.   
But that's why the ranking system is there.   You benefit from better draws the higher ranked you are normally, and that's what the benefit is whether it makes a difference at the French Open or wherever.   You have to have to wait and see.  
But here, for example, you know, the seeds don't always win, don't always come through.   There's always upsets and stuff.   And worrying about the quarterfinals or semifinals of the French Open is pointless for me at this stage, anyway.   Such a long way away.   
I'd like to get to No. 2 this week.   It would be nice, but, you know, I'd rather focus on trying to win my matches.  
   
 Q.   Speaking of the big three that are not here right now, when they're not in a tournament‑‑ obviously you get some tough opponents like today, you have Berdych and Ferrer.   When they're not here, do you miss them?   Do you miss the challenge, or do you say, Hey, I get more confidence and it's better for me?  
ANDY MURRAY:   To be honest, I played loads of tournaments with them and loads of tournaments without them.   It doesn't really change the way you approach the event.   
You know, you go into most events, you know, trying to win them, but obviously if they aren't there, then, you know, you don't have to play against two or three of the best players that have played the game.  
So it's not as challenging, but I always enjoy playing against them because it's good for me.   It's a good test of my game especially when you're building up to a major event, for example.   You know, they can expose anything you're not doing that well.   You will see it more against those players and, you know, can actually help, you know, to improve some things going into the big tournaments.  
   
 Q.   Marin seems to be playing well again, but he's not quite up to the top 10, hasn't gotten back there yet.   Are you surprised he's not up there at least with the Berdyches or Tsongas of this world?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, it's important to remember he is quite a bit younger than them.   I think now, you know, it has taken ‑‑guys are starting to play better later in their careers, especially the big guys, especially.   
You know, he's a very, very good player.   He's a tough player.   But if you look at someone like Berdych, he's a very big, strong guy.   Marin has maybe not filled out maybe as someone like Tomas or even Tsonga just now.   It's just taking guys maybe a little bit longer than it was before to play their best tennis.  
But this year I think he's played really well.   He's lost, you know, some tight matches.   Yeah, he also ‑‑I mean, he had a knee surgery, I think, I mean, not that long ago.   That also, especially for bigger guys, as well, that can set you back a little bit, but he's come back very well from it.  
   
 Q.   What's the most challenging part of his game for you?   What's the most impressive thing about him to you?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Of his game?   
I mean, he does everything ‑‑he does everything well.   You know, he has a good serve.   He's, you know, one of the better returners on the tour, which you may not expect for a big guy.   But statistically he returns very well.   
He has a very long reach, so from the back of the court, you know, he gets a lot of balls.   He's not an easy guy to hit winners against.  
He's improving all the time.   He's started coming to the net more and volleying better all the time.   He has a good all‑around game.   He plays well on every surface.   I think he's won tournaments on clay and on hard courts.   He's had some good results on grass in the past, too.   He's just a good, solid, all‑around player on all the courts.  
   
 Q.   How big a surprise for you was it to see Novak lose to Del Potro and in consecutive weeks on hard courts?   That was unexpected, don't you think?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I think any time the top players lose, you know, to someone ranked below them, yeah, is unexpected.   But it does happen.   I mean, a few years ago it was unexpected that Novak went on the run that he did, as well.  
So there's always going to be a time where, you know, guys are going to struggle and lose the odd match or not play well for a couple of weeks.   It happens, you know.   He just happened to play some of his best tennis for almost two years in a row.   He's hardly had any slip‑ups at all.   I would say that's more unexpected than maybe not playing his best or, you know, maybe this week and didn't play his best‑‑ I think he still played pretty well in Indian Wells, and I'm sure he'll be fine in the clay court season.  
   
 Q.   Did you get to see the Heat game?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I saw most of it last night, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on it?   Disappointed?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, it would have been nice to see them win or to keep the streak going, but, yeah, it's a very tough thing to do.   It's still amazing what they managed to accomplish.  
   
 Q.   Wondered what you thought about the Davis Cup lineup:   Ward, Baker, and Tursunov, Donskoy.   And do you give the British team a chance on that one?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think there's definitely a chance.   I don't know exactly what the court surface is going to be like, you know, but the surface could help.   And the Brits obviously playing at home, that helps.   
Then the doubles, you know, we have a top doubles team, as well, and the doubles can always be a key rubber.  
Yeah, definitely, definitely a chance to win.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT