SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 26, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A.   MURRAY/A. Seppi
  6‑2, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How are you feeling?   Because you looked like you did have a leg issue at one point. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it was probably four or five points into the second set my right sort of hip, quad, like top of my right leg, was sore for a few games.   Felt like something just caught a little bit.
But it was fine from 2‑1 for him in the second.   I felt okay.

Q.   Would that be anything you need to look at tomorrow on the day off?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I don't think so.   I felt fine after that.   It feels fine now.
Normally, you know, if you pick up a little something, you know, when you cool down that after the match you feel it, and it feels fine just now.   Stuff can get out of place on the court, and, you know, when you're moving again it starts to feel better or opens up again.
But, yeah, probably just did an awkward movement at one stage and was a bit sore for a few games.

Q.   Can you tell us about the playing conditions?   Because it was quite different from a couple of days ago.   Was it a lot tougher today to end the points?
ANDY MURRAY:   It was cold, so, yeah, it slows the court down a bit. 
And also, it was a very strong breeze.   So, you know, when it's cool and there is a strong breeze on the court from one of the ends, it's very difficult to hit through the court and to be the one dictating the point.
So you end up playing a lot of defense from one side, and then on the other side you're the one that's looking to be aggressive.
But still, you have to play with more topspin when you're with the wind, so you can't hit the ball as flat.   So it's easier to force your opponent into errors, but it's not as easy to hit clean winners because you're having to give the ball more margin to try and make sure you basically take the wind into consideration when you're hitting the ball.
If you hit a flat ball with the wind, it's just going to sail out the back.   So that's what happens when you play in the wind.

Q.   Are you happy about the performance with your serve? Apart from the last game when you saved the break point, you basically haven't given him any chance. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I served pretty well the first few matches.   Served fairly high percentage of first serves.
Yeah, I mean, today I served well.   You know, when I was down in games I served pretty good, too. 
Yeah, I mean, that can change from day to day, but just keep working on it each day.   Focus hard on each serve specifically.
I think if you lose concentration for a couple of points, that's when you can miss some serves and get yourself in trouble.
But I served well so far.

Q.   You were saying to me the other night that you have to be a bit careful in training as you get older not to pick up niggles.   The kind of twinges you had today, do they happen more for you now than they used to?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, probably, but, you know, I have been fairly lucky throughout my career with injuries so far.
You know, so I haven't withdrawn from many matches.   I think maybe one since I have been on the tour when I hurt my wrist in Hamburg a few years ago.
So even when I have had things that hurt and niggle, you know, I have always tried to play through them.   That sometimes may appear like, you know, I'm badly hurt on the court or whatever.
You know, a lot of players don't play through injuries and stop and give walkovers and lose matches through that.
So I have always tried to find a way through any niggles or whatever.   And often, with 48 hours of rest, you know, you can feel much better.

Q.   Does it make a difference now that you have that break?   Is it an advantage?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, not at all.   I mean, last week the guys who were in the bottom half had an advantage.   It's the same here as well, because obviously you play the ‑‑last week you played quarters, semis, and final, Friday, Saturday, Sunday; whereas the others had a day off between that.
So it was definitely no advantage there. 

Q.   Because you're living in the area, do you consider these like home courts, or would you say Queen's would be more home courts or the All England?   And when you do come here and play in the offseason, do you go to the center court specifically or whatever is available? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I practice on that court all the time, on the center court here, so for me this is the court that I ‑‑ never practice on the grass courts at Queen's; I never practice on the grass courts at Wimbledon, either, because you're not allowed to during the year.
So, yeah, this is where I spend most of my time training.   This is where I do go through a lot of my tough on‑court training sessions.
So, I would say that here is the court that I feel most comfortable on just because I train on it all the time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT