SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 25, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/G. Dimitrov
  7‑6, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   He was swinging pretty big, wasn't he?   Weathered the storm in the first set.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah he did a similar thing when I played him in Brisbane, as well.   I was hitting the ball quite short early, too, which helped him a bit with that.   
Also, it was obviously way cooler today and much slower conditions.   The ball wasn't going as quick.   I was leaving the ball a bit short.   Once I started to improve my depth a bit I made it tough for him and he started to make mother mistakes after that.  
   
 Q.   When somebody has a bit of a double fault rash like that, do you almost feel you've earned that by pressurizing the serve?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, it depends.   Sometimes it can happen through pressurizing the serves; sometimes it happens through nerves; sometimes you can miss a couple of serves by a couple of millimeters.   
You know, there's not always a reason for it.   But, yeah, today he probably got a little bit nervous, and that helped me.  
   
 Q.   I want to ask you about Del Potro.   He lost his first match, but he had a great start of the season.   Do you think this can be the season that he can get closer to you, the top four players?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think ‑‑ I mean, the start of every year it's like a clean slate for everyone.   Doesn't really matter what's happened in the past.   You need to play well, you know, most weeks if you want to get to the top of the game.  
You know, I found it challenging‑‑ you know, the last few years I have been in the top three or four through my results in the slams, not necessarily in the Masters Series.   
So it's something I have been looking to improve and I think something that Juan will be wanting to improve, as well.   He won Rotterdam, he played well in Dubai, he played well in Indian Wells, but probably didn't play his best in Australian Open and here.  
Over the course of the year that affects the rankings.   So, yeah, the only thing for him is just a little bit more consistency and he'll be very close.   
   
 Q.   With Dimitrov making a bit of a breakthrough, do you think he's really improving his game?   Is he any better than when you played anymore Brisbane?  
ANDY MURRAY:   He played very well in Brisbane.   It was probably a better match I think in Brisbane than here.   Yes, I mean, it's tough.   It is tough to tell sometimes.   
It's very different conditions here.   You know, Brisbane was almost an indoor court, as well, and it probably felt quicker, also.   
But I think he will play his best tennis on the faster courts because he has very good timing.   He loses his slice a lot.   He serves well.   He's aggressive.   So he will probably play his best tennis on the quicker courts.  
   
 Q.   You'll play Andreas Seppi next.   Can you assess that, a guy who has come into his own the past 12 months?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it's a tough match.   He's solid from both sides; doesn't have any major weaknesses; he moves well.  
Yeah, he's up at 14, 15 in the world, around that ranking.   He's a solid player.   He plays well on all of the surfaces.   
Like I say, very few weaknesses.   He's a tough guy for anyone to beat.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT