SONY OPEN TENNIS
March 23, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/B. Tomic
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Once you settled down it was sort of routine, was it?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I think the start of the match is important, especially, you know, it's very tough conditions today.   It was obviously very hot and humid, and it was very windy on the court, as well.
Once I got ahead, I mean, I was just trying to make a lot of balls at the start.   You're never going to feel great your first match, especially when it's tricky conditions and with his game style, too.   He mixes the play up a lot.   It's tough. 
I just tried to make loads of balls.   I don't know if he was tired or struggling with the humidity, but he was playing pretty low‑percentage tennis.   With the conditions like they were today, that played into my hands.

Q.   Do you see a bit of you in him in his style of play?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think both of us obviously play with quite a lot of variation, you know, and, yeah, there's definitely some similarities there.
You know, he probably hits the ball flatter than me off both sides, you know, can probably generate more power.   But I probably move a bit better than him.   There are probably the differences, but we definitely play a similar style.

Q.   You're up against one of the other players that's coming up that's talked about a lot as a potentially good player, top of the game for the future.   You have played them both a couple of times.   How would you compare them?   Which is better?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   It's tough to say.   I mean, you know, Grigor is probably a better athlete.   But I think, you know, like tennis IQ I think, you know, Bernard knows how to play tennis.   He has very good anticipation.   He has great feel. 
Grigor has very good feel, as well. 
You know, Bernard is a really big guy.   He sometimes doesn't ‑‑he kind of hunches over a bit, but he's 6'4", 6'5".   He's a big guy.
That can help, too.   It's tough to say who's better.   They have had similar results.   Maybe Bernard, he's done better in the slams and obviously won a tournament.   Grigor has played well this year.

Q.   Do you think he deserved the unfriendly reception some of the crowd gave him?   Was that fair?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   I mean, I obviously just try to concentrate on my side of the court.
The one thing I would say is that if you aren't used to playing in these conditions, it is extremely hot and tough to play.   You know, it is tough when you're going behind and making quite a lot of mistakes. 
I have done it before when my head has gone down and you still want to win, but it doesn't always appear that way. 
So I don't know.   The crowd, they're free to do whatever they want.   They pay the money and they can greet players however they would like. 

Q.   Did you make it to the Heat game last night?
ANDY MURRAY:   Didn't go.   I enjoy going, but obviously the games finished pretty late, so I was in bed by the end of the game.

Q.   Are you happy or disappointed that Federer or Nadal are no longer, you know, in the future path of you in this tournament?   How do you see the path that you have left?
ANDY MURRAY:   I have played so many tournaments with everyone playing.   It's not something that when the draws sort of come out it's not necessarily something I always look at.
But when you know they aren't going to be here, then it obviously changes things a little bit.   Changes where your position in the draw is going to be.
Yeah, for tennis it's way better if all of the top players are here.   I think we have been very lucky the last few years especially that, you know, a lot of the top players have fulfilled their commitments to all of the big events.
So it's going to happen from time to time, and it's unfortunate for this event that it happened here.

Q.   Do you think these courts are too slow?   Would you like hard courts faster than they generally seem to be at the moment?
ANDY MURRAY:   It's faster here than it was at Indian Wells.   The courts in Indian Wells are extremely slow, and that's why I find it quite tricky to play there.   The ball moves extremely fast through the air, and when it hits the court it checks.   It really stops.
But here the courts aren't that slow.   I mean, they painted these courts about over a month ago, because I was practicing on them when they painted them.   A lot of the tournaments, they do that a few days beforehand.   So it's not too slow. 
But, you know, I think there should be a longer grass court season, and I think the more variety in the surfaces the better for the game.   And also, you know, the longevity of the players, as well, you know, shorter rallies. 
But if you look how long guys are playing now compared with back then, the guys that played serve and volley didn't last that long.   Their joints and backs and stuff got hurt, as well.   So it's tough to know exactly what's best for the body. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT