BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 15, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DEL POTRO/A. Murray
  7‑6, 3‑6, 1‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How do you sum up that match?   Such a tight first set. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, I thought the first set I was playing pretty decent.   I thought I hit the ball decent throughout the match, but I played better when I needed to in the first set; then obviously hadn't managed to break him in the match.   I had some chances in the second set; didn't manage to get them. 
He had a big second serve on to the back edge of the line.   Yeah, he played like someone that's won a lot of matches recently.   Especially in the second and third set when the important moments came he played well.

Q.   Serving, there were eight double faults.   Was that a problem for you or do you... 
ANDY MURRAY:   I didn't serve particularly well, but, you know, going two sets, you know, getting broken once, you know, I would sign up for that almost every single match I play against a top player, because returning is, you know, the strongest part of my game.
So I didn't serve particularly well in the third set, but the first two sets, I mean, I served decent and I only got broken once.
You know, that's obviously something I'll try and work on for Miami.   But, yeah, first couple of sets it was okay.   You know, it was a tough match.   I mean there was a lot of long rallies.   It's very warm conditions the first set or two, and sometimes on the serve if your legs are just a little bit tired you can miss serves. 
You know, just timing might go a little bit off and you're not quite getting up to them.   That's maybe what happened today.

Q.   There are very small margins in games like this.   The way he was playing, you probably weren't going to get too many looks at his serve.   He offered a couple of break points, I think.   How did you read those two incidents?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I said the first one he had 105 mile an hour serve onto the back edge of the line on one of them, so not much I can do there.
One of them I didn't time the return particularly well.   He hit an okay serve into my backhand, and then we played a fairly long rally after that.   I think he got net cord. 

Q.   Net cord, yeah. 
ANDY MURRAY:   And I kind of misplaced my feet because he had hit quite a hard shot, so I had planned on running quite hard into that corner.   That net cord changed the direction of the ball a little bit and slowed it down.   Then I mishit it. 
Yeah, that can be the difference sometimes between ‑‑ I'm not necessarily saying I would have won the match, but you get back on level terms and the momentum is with you.

Q.   You hurt yourself right near the end.   You stepped wrong. 
ANDY MURRAY:   No, we had a couple of like jerky points at the net.   Just was a few sort of quick shot movements here and there.
My body feels okay, considering, you know, I haven't played a match for five weeks or so.

Q.   Juan obviously won the US Open and he had that terrible injury.   He's sort of in an extended new phase now.   In terms of the Grand Slams and getting past all the players, what do you think his chances are of winning another Grand Slam title?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, he obviously has a good chance.   He has a big game.   When he strings it together, he's ‑‑ I mean, he's a top, top player.   He needs to obviously stay injury‑free.   That's important he so he can gain some momentum going into the big events. 
That's one part of it.   And then, yeah, you need to play your best tennis at the business end of the those events over five sets.
It's challenging, but he's obviously done it before, and he's playing some very good tennis just now.

Q.   In the past when you played him you used a lot of variety:   dropshots, slice.   Do you think you did enough of that today, played the way you wanted to play?
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, there are certain things I would have obviously liked to have done better.   Yeah, I mean, I came forward quite a lot.   It's quite a tough court to use loads of variety on because the ball sits up a lot, so if you don't have a good slice you're doing a lot of running.
I mean, did a decent job.   There was a few things maybe not necessarily tactically I would have liked to have done better.   I could've served better and returned better.   Two pretty important parts of the game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT