BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2013
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/C. Berlocq
  7‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That was quite a tough match all the way through. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it was tough.   I mean, he started well and he was playing very aggressive.   He had a lot of chances in the first set.   He obviously served for it. 
And then, yeah, second set was kind of the other way around.   I had a lot of chances, but, you know, was still tight.   You know, all the games were pretty close, a lot of long games and longish rallies.   It was a tough match.

Q.   Was his grunting bothering you some?   Did you talk to the chair umpire about that?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, he complained I was taking too long between the points, and, you know, that was maybe one or two points where that could have been an issue. 
But, you know, when someone is grunting like that it's every single shot.   And also, when you're doing it that loud, you know, but you aren't doing that on every single shot, there is obviously a reason for why you're grunting like that, you know, some consistency with a grunt.
If I'm going to be supposedly taking too long between points on one or two points, then, you know, grunting that loud for that long is like an extended grunt as well.   It's still making a noise when you're hitting the ball.   It's annoying.

Q.   He said he had no idea that it would annoy you. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, yeah, but that's what all of the real grunters say.   (Laughter.)
You know, when it's the odd shot, but it's like sometimes silence and then it comes out of nowhere.   It's a bit of a shock.
So that's what I don't understand with it.   To go from nothing to the loudest grunt you can do, it makes no sense.

Q.   When grunting has been talked about before, it's been pretty much framed as a women's‑only issue.   The WTA have made statements about it.   Do you think it's something the ATP should look into and try to reign in, too?
ANDY MURRAY:   I have never experienced it before like that where I have ever spoken to an umpire or discussed it.   When I have been on the court or off it, it's never been something I have found to be really that off‑putting. 
But if it's going to be suggested that I am using gamesmanship by taking too long, then you can't be making noises like that on the court.   It's far too loud.

Q.   Has it ever distracted you before?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, it doesn't distract me.   I haven't experienced it like that before.   It was extremely, extremely loud, more than what I have experienced from any other player on the tour.

Q.   The last time you played him you don't remember that?
ANDY MURRAY:   I didn't even know I played him before.

Q.   You played him three or four years ago, no? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Did I? 

Q.   Were you asking the umpire to actually tell him to quiet down? 
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I just said at change of ends, If I'm taking too long in between the points, tell me.   But if his grunt is lasting until I'm making contact with the ball, then tell him to stop doing it.   And that was it. 
I wasn't the one that was initiating the discussions with the umpire about the rules.

Q.   You follow the women's tour a lot more closely than any of the other top guys, it seems like.   When you watch some of the loud grunters on the women's side, does it annoy you, as well?
ANDY MURRAY:   I would think it's more playing against it.   I mean, normally when I'm watching tennis I don't listen to it particularly loud because I don't listen to the commentary.
But, yeah, I mean, I think it's more for the player you're playing against that it's off‑putting.   And that's why, you know, people complain about it.   Because if it's distracting your opponent and making them play worse, then you're getting an advantage.   That's why people complain about it.

Q.   How do you see the next match, Del Potro?
ANDY MURRAY:   I saw a little bit of his match tonight.   Looks like he's playing well.   I haven't played particularly well so far, so I'm going to need to play a lot better than I did tonight if I want to win that match.

Q.   You're a big follower of boxing, which some say would have some similarities with tennis:   one on one, knockout punch, quickness.   What do you think you can learn most from boxing that would apply to this sport?
ANDY MURRAY:   Probably discipline, I think, and training and dieting and the buildup to a big event or a big fight for them.   They prepare for three months to get themselves ready.   They start very early in the morning.   They just get up and do their work, and it's obviously an extremely physically and mentally demanding sport, as well.
So to do it day after day after day for three months is tough.   I'd say that's the main thing you can learn from it, the way they prepare themselves and condition themselves.

Q.   And a boxer who's most inspired you?   Who do you like most?
ANDY MURRAY:   There's not one boxer more than another that has sort of inspired me.   Obviously I watch all sorts of boxing.   I like watching obviously any of the British fighters.
But, I mean, I like watching Floyd Mayweather.   I have watched a lot of videos of him training and how he prepares himself.   He works extremely hard.

Q.   Do you think the chair umpire should have said something to Berlocq about the grunting?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, look, I mean, I wouldn't have necessarily gone into huge dialogue with the umpire about it if he wasn't complaining about how much time I was taking between the points. 
Simple as that.

Q.   What is your reaction to Roger Draper's decision to resign from the LTA?
ANDY MURRAY:   In what respect?   How do you want me to react to it? 

Q.   Well, do you think he's done a good job?
ANDY MURRAY:   Judging on what?   What's the criteria for whether he's done a good job or not? 
Because, I mean, I don't know how that job is judged.   If you give me a criteria I can give you an answer, but... 

Q.   Success rate of sort of developing players in his time there. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, in the time he's been there we've got two girls in the top 50, so that's progress for us.   I mean, there was a point where there was four women in the top 100, so I think on the women's side there has been progress.
On the men's side it's probably gone backwards because there's not as many players pushing, you know, to get into the top 100 in the world.
Women's side has probably improved; men's side not so much.   But the juniors, I mean, on the boys side have done very well the last few years.   We have had guys in final of Australian Open, final of Wimbledon, won US Open, so that's been decent.

Q.   Have you got any thoughts on who should replace him?
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   I don't know what the criteria for that job is exactly, because some people want it to be purely grassroots.   But then if you go into grassroots and there's not results at the top of the game, then people will complain about that.
So if it's across the board, it's going to have to be someone that knows, you know, how to develop clubs and that sort of structure, but also has an understanding of what it takes to develop players into the top 100 in the world in the men's and women's game. 
I think there's loads of people that have that experience to find the perfect person, so it will be interesting to find what they decide.

Q.   There is a report recently from a British paper from an American doping expert saying the biological passport would take four or five years to set up.   Did you see that, and any thoughts on that?
ANDY MURRAY:   I didn't see that, but I'm not totally aware of the ins and outs of the biological passport.   I thought once ‑‑I mean, once it's set up, I think, you know, you're seeing in other sports them going back sort of ‑‑I was reading in 2005 in the World Championships they've just gone and banned four or five athletes from 2005.
And I think that's the best thing about it is that, you know, if you're cheating now and you can't detect it, in five, six years you're going to get caught.
I think that's the best thing about the biological passport.

Q.   Novak obviously is a fantastic player where actually you can say a lot of the same strengths that you have with backhand return, movement, conditioning, toughness.   Can you talk about one or two areas where you can try and attack Novak and try and break him down, or not?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, ideally I'm not going to speak about that in here.   But, I mean, I have been in positions‑‑ I played him quite a few times and have been in winning positions a couple of times and lost matches that maybe I shouldn't have. 
I feel like my game gives him some trouble.   I try and use some variation and not give him the same ball over and over again.
I think when he has that, he makes very few errors.   That's the one thing that I would try and do against him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT