BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 11, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/A. Murray
  7‑6, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Were you at all disturbed by what appeared to be an interruption from the crowd when you double‑faulted in the first set?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't remember.   When was it?   
   
 Q.   I can't rightly remember.   The umpire gave a warning to the crowd, asked them to be silent during the serve.   It was when you double‑faulted.   
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't think it was a game where I got broken, so I don't think it was in the tiebreak.   
   
 Q.   No.   
ANDY MURRAY:   So, yeah, I don't think it made any difference in the match at all.   
   
 Q.   You've repeatedly referred to him as the greatest player that ever played the game.   That was an exhibition of it tonight in that second set particularly, wasn't it?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think he played well.   I didn't think it was incredibly high standard in terms of length of points.   There was a lot of quick points.   
I started the match well.   He came back in, got the tiebreak.   If you watched the game where I got broken from 40‑Love in the second set, that was down to I hit three dropshots in that game and missed a regulation backhand in the net.   
Once he gets ahead, he's incredibly hard to stop.   He tends to play better and better when he gets up.   I feel like I gave him that advantage the beginning of the second set.   
   
 Q.   Talking about the fact that you got off to a very good start, then he came back, was there anything specific he did or did your level drop?   
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, I started the match off very well.   It can be a combination of both.   I was going for my shots a lot.   I was playing very aggressive on the return.   
Then he started to serve a little bit better.   I missed a few more returns.   Then, yeah, when he got the break back, he started to play better.   I hung on a little bit the end of the first set.   Couldn't quite sneak out the tiebreak.   
Then, like I say, I played a poor game the beginning of the second to get broken, then he played very well after that.   
   
 Q.   Obviously a lot of superb achievements this year.   How much of a downer is it to finish like that?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Losing to Roger?   
   
 Q.   Given all the things that have happened this year that have been very positive.   
ANDY MURRAY:   It was an incredibly positive year.   I mean, I would have loved to finish the year on a win, of course.   I'm sure Roger and Novak both will tomorrow.   
But, I mean, I wouldn't say whoever wins or loses the match tomorrow will look back on the year with huge disappointment.   I think both of them have played really well this whole year, and I have to try to view it the same.   
I would have liked to have finished, obviously, with a win.   But, yeah, that didn't happen.   But for me, it's been the best year of my career by a mile.   So why I would look back on that negatively now would be silly because I've achieved things I've never achieved before.   
I have to look back on it positively.   If I don't, then that would be worrying.   
   
 Q.   What do you think is the biggest improvement you made this year, the improvement you're most pleased with?   What's the improvement you want to concentrate on making next year?  
ANDY MURRAY:   In terms of the way I've been playing and kind of going about matches, like tonight.   You know, I was going for my shots tonight.   Like I said, in the second set, I didn't hit the ball great, but I was still trying to make things happen, still trying to go for my shots rather than letting him dictate every single point, which sometimes in the past I had done.   
I think that's what I have to be most pleased with because when I had opportunities in big matches this year, I did try and take them.   I went for it.   You know, I still need to learn sometimes a little bit when that's off and I'm not hitting it as well to, you know, rein it in a little bit.   That's something that will come with time.   
But that would be the thing I'm most pleased with, that I've been trying to go out there and win matches rather than waiting for my opponent to lose them.   
   
 Q.   There's obviously huge affection for Roger Federer in this country with everything he's done.   Were you at all taken aback by how much support there was for him tonight, given this is your home tournament?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, almost all the times when you play Roger anywhere in the world, he gets great support everywhere.   He deserves that because of everything that's he's achieved.   
   
 Q.   I believe you're going back to Abu Dhabi.   I want to know why you decided to go back after missing it?   Does it really help your standard going into the new season or is it just an exhibition for you?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, the off‑season this year is much longer, two weeks longer exactly, which means I can take a bit of time off now and then train and then come home over the holiday period, over Christmastime, which I haven't done the last three years.   I've gone straight over to Australia just because of how tight the turnaround was.   
I was coming back for Christmas this year.   So I was going to go over to Australia that way.   It's a good way to start the year.   You're practicing against the best players in the world.   The guys that have played there the last few years have gone on to be very successful in Australia, as well.   
So I think before you start playing tournaments, it just gives you a little bit of extra sharpness because you're playing against the best players.   That's why I'm doing it.   
   
 Q.   Just looking at the last two months since the US Open, you've had some pretty good results in that period, but you haven't quite reached the heights that you did in the summer.   Has that been just difficult matching what you did in those sort of two months over the middle of the summer?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, I think, to be honest, it could have been a little bit different, if a few points had gone the other way.   I mean, I lost with match points in Tokyo.   Then again the match with Novak was an incredibly close match.   I had a few match points there.   Then also in Paris and then here, you know, against Novak, again, it was a very tight match, a couple of points.   
So I don't think, you know, the results have been that bad or that I played poorly or not responded well to maybe winning the US Open.   I feel like I played some decent tennis.   Just, yeah, not quite finished a couple of matches when I had chances.   
So, you know, I obviously would have liked to have won those and had one or two other wins over Novak.   But, you know, again, if you told me last year I'd be sitting in this position with the results I had last year, I would have agreed and signed up for that straightaway.   
I'm happy with the year and I'll work really hard in December to get better.   
   
 Q.   Ivan has obviously made a big difference.   Would you say working with him is the best decision you've made in your career?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, he's obviously helped me a lot.   There's been a lot of decisions made, off‑the‑court decisions that are very important to your career, also decisions when you're out there playing matches, as well.   
Moving over to Spain when I was younger was a very hard decision to make, and that would be up there with this one.   You know, but since I've maybe been on the tour, I think it was a step that I needed to take and was very important to me and helped me get over that final hurdle.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT