BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 5, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/T. Berdych
  3‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tomas said he felt the turning point was when he didn't take those breakpoints in the second set.   Did you feel as well that was maybe when the momentum shifted? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, yeah, I mean, I obviously broke the next game.   But in the first set, you know, the same thing happened with me where I had I think seven or eight breakpoints and didn't get them, and he had breakpoints in one of the games and got one of them.   He gained a bit of confidence after that. 
But, yeah, I mean, indoor matches, when both of us I thought served pretty well, weren't losing too many points on our first serve, it can hinge on a couple points here or there. 
Yeah, that definitely gave me the advantage in the second set.   But, you know, the third set was tight as well. 

Q.   What was it like being in front of London fans today?   What are your overall thoughts on the group pairing as well?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, it was a good atmosphere.   Well, for me anyway, it's important, you know, the last week of the year when everyone's a little bit tired, to have that, you know, atmosphere, big crowd to give you that extra little push that you need to play good tennis.   So, yeah, it was good to be back playing in the UK. 
And, yeah, I think the groups are tough.   Everyone who's here can play great tennis on any day.   Yeah, you're going to have to play well to beat everybody. 

Q.   First match on UK soil since becoming a Grand Slam champion.   Did that mean anything to you?   Was there anything different about it?
ANDY MURRAY:   Uhm, well, I mean, I wasn't thinking about that when I went out to play the match.   But the noise and the atmosphere at the beginning of the match was great.   Like I say, at this stage of the year, that does help to give you a little boost, you know, rather than coming out playing flat.   I thought I started the match well.   You know, just didn't quite take my chances early on. 
But I didn't feel that much different to how I felt, you know, the last few months. 

Q.   When you finally got your break in the second set, you had just wasted three more breakpoints, then you whacked the ball, it hit the Corona sign on the net.   What was going through your mind after missing the breakpoints, then you couldn't hit the ball to the ball boy over the net?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, a lot of the breakpoints I didn't waste.   I think if you went and watched them, he served very well on a lot of the breakpoints, especially in the first set.   He started to miss a few more first serves, second and third sets when I had my chances.   That sort of helped me get into the point and find a way of being aggressive, using some variety, whereas some of the time in the first set he just completely overpowered me. 
If I want to and I'm holding a ball in my hand, I can feed the ball over the net if I want to.   I wasn't concerned with that at all. 

Q.   You mentioned on court the situation a couple years ago when you were tired and didn't qualify because there were tiebreaks.   That situation can arise in these kinds of events.   Is that something that comes to your mind, winning in straight sets?   Losing a game here can actually mean something.   Is that something you have to keep in your mind when you're playing?
ANDY MURRAY:   I think I've been quite lucky in some respects that I haven't really played many matches here, necessarily when I was on the court, I didn't feel like I was playing for games or for a set. 
When I played Ferrer a couple of years ago here, I knew that if I won a set against him, he was out of the tournament.   You know, I've never really been in that position here.   So I haven't thought about it.   I'm sure when you are, it can be hard. 
If you go into a match knowing you have to win six or seven games, it must be tough not to think about that. 

Q.   You seemed in the last game very fired up to win that.   Were you aware, thinking about not having closed out a couple of matches recently?
ANDY MURRAY:   I was thinking the reasons why that had happened.   The match against Djokovic in Shanghai, again, I didn't really feel like I did loads wrong in that match.   The one last week, I said I was disappointed with.   I rushed, didn't concentrate and focus as hard as I needed to.   That was why I got broken. 
So today I focused on every point.   I got myself pumped up.   I took my time and served it out well. 

Q.   Do you feel any different in yourself or your game having won the Grand Slam?   Do you feel it has an impact on a day‑to‑day basis, even in tight moments?
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, it's hard to say because I've lost a few very tough matches since, very close matches since then. 
But I hope when I'm playing the best players in the world, you know, I'll believe in my shots a bit more and make sure to be aggressive when I can.   I thought I did a good job of that today.   I tried to move forward and take his time away a little bit, which sometimes when I played him in the past, I'd let him dictate a lot of the points.   I didn't feel like I did that today. 
They're the things that rather it necessarily being just confidence, also just learning.   Having won a few of the big events this year, and having lost a tough one in Australia against Novak, and at Wimbledon against Roger, I've learnt a lot this year how I need to play those big points in big games.   I think it's that rather than confidence. 

Q.   Janko Tipsarevic told us before he thinks it's the nicest tournament of the whole year.   Can you talk a little bit about the little special things that make this tournament special for the players. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I think the reason why it's special to a lot of the players, not everybody can qualify for it.   I'm sure a lot of the players would want to play here, but there's only eight spots.   It's a whole year's work getting here.   So already that makes it, you know, a nice feeling to be able to come here. 
But you've been around it.   It's a beautiful stadium to play in.   It's a different atmosphere to most of the tournaments we're at.   We take the boat to the courts, which we don't do anywhere else.   We have our own locker rooms.   It's a nice tournament.   They put on a great event.   They also put on a really nice event in Shanghai, too. 
I've enjoyed it every year I've got the chance to play.   I'm sure Janko will love playing again this year. 

Q.   You're in Novak's group.   You've obviously had some incredible matches against him this year.   Given the amount you put each other through each time you play each other, do you have to prepare yourself mentally any differently to just get ready for the pain you're going to put each other through physically?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, for me anyway there's an understanding of how much you have to put into the match to win it.   I think that's just the nature of those matches. 
Both of us are very good retrievers, so often the points will go on a lot.   Sometimes you maybe feel like you need to win the point two or three times, which is tough and can be a little bit tiring. 
But, I mean, we've played each other enough to know what to expect.   We do practice with each other quite a lot, too.   But it's never quite the same as the matches, that's for sure. 

Q.   How do you feel the indoor surface compares to playing to other tournaments around the world?
ANDY MURRAY:   The indoor surface? 

Q.   Yes. 
ANDY MURRAY:   It felt like a pretty fair court to me.   When we've been practicing the last few days, there's no one in there.   It was very cold in the arena, felt very slow.   But today when we were playing, both of us won a lot of points off our first serve, got a lot of free points. 
But you can also defend, as well.   It's not that quick where you can't reach balls.   I think it's a pretty fair court.   It's not bouncing really high or really low.   It takes slice well.   It takes spin well.   I like it.   For an indoor court, it's not often you get that.   It's normally quite tough to play on some of the surfaces.   But here is pretty good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT