BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 1, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANOWICZ/A. Murray
  5‑7, 7‑6, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   That was kind of a weird match in so many senses.   You must have felt you had it won, and then he played some tremendous tennis in the third set.   How did you read it?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, there wasn't much rhythm.   He's got a big serve.   There wasn't too many long rallies in his service games, so I needed to focus well on my serve. 
I did that for the most part, and then, yeah, when I served for the match I didn't play a particularly good game and missed a couple of shots, you know, that I would have hoped to have made. 
He probably gained some confidence from that and started playing better.   He played a good tiebreak, played aggressive, he hits a very flat ball, so when he's hitting it well it comes through the court a lot.   He was able to dictate a lot of the points.

Q.   How would you assess him compared to a lot of the other sort of big, tall lads on the tour?
ANDY MURRAY:   He moves well; from the back of the court he moved pretty good.   He obviously serves well.   A lot of those guys serve very well.
You know, he's maybe a little bit more unpredictable than a few of them from the back of the court.   He tried a lot of dropshots and went for winners maybe when he was out of position that maybe some of the others don't.
So he was probably a bit more unpredictable, I would say.

Q.   You've had a little run where you haven't closed out match points in three tournaments.   Could that be sort of mental drain after the summer that you had, do you think?
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, I don't know exactly what the reason was.   I have to make sure I tighten that up next week if I get that opportunity in the matches and, yeah, make sure I don't let it happen, make sure I don't let it happen at the O2.

Q.   In the grand scheme of things, how much of a setback is it with a view to next week, or do you think by next week it won't be hugely relevant?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, only time will tell really.   You know, a lot of the players will have had slightly different run‑ins to the O2.   Obviously me and Novak lost early this week; Roger didn't play, and then I think the rest of the guys are still in here.
So, you know, you never know.   You know, maybe the guys that go deep here, you know, they'll have confidence from having a good tournament but may, you know, arrive a little bit later and might take a while to get used to the conditions.
We don't know.   So, you know, I'll have to wait and see.   I'll definitely need to play a bit better than I did this week if I want to get some wins there. 

Q.   You mentioned your serving was going pretty well, and then when you were serving for the match, what happened there?   Can you put your finger on anything in particular? 
ANDY MURRAY:   It had nothing to do with my serving why I lost the match.   I missed groundstrokes.   I need to make sure I'm a little bit sharper, you know, when I'm in those positions than I have been the last few weeks. 
I'd say today more than in Asia I didn't play ‑‑ you know, against Raonic the match points were on his serve so it was a bit different.
When they're on your serve you want to make sure you're closing them out.   Probably takes a bit more focus and, you know, just solid tennis rather than doing anything silly and playing sloppy shots.

Q.   On the kind of broader aspect of the game, credibility of the game as a whole, having this level of event the week before the Tour Finals ‑ I think we know why the decision was taken ‑ but do you think in the grand scheme of things it's worked out well for the sport?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, again, we'll have to wait and see and see how the O2 goes next week.   The matches might be unbelievably high standard, and, you know, it won't seem like a problem. 
If the standard is poor then it's maybe something we need to look at.   But we'll have to see how the O2 goes first before we make a judgment on that, I think.

Q.   So what will you do in the intervening time?
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, I would have thought I'd go back to London tonight, either take a rest day tomorrow or go maybe straight from here to the hotel in London and start hitting some balls as soon as we can on the court. 
I'm not sure exactly when they have the court from.   Normally be a couple days before the event the last few years, so I'm not 100% sure I'll be ready tomorrow. 
THE MODERATOR:   Saturday.
ANDY MURRAY:   Saturday?   Yeah, I don't know whether I'll hit tomorrow and then just go start practicing on Saturday on the court. 

Q.   Is Ivan joining you in London?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, he'll be there then. 

Q.   What time does he get in?
ANDY MURRAY:   He gets in tomorrow. 

Q.   Obviously you have spoken to him on the phone.   Have you had any face to face with Ivan since... 
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I haven't seen him since the last day of the US Open, so that will be, you know, it will be a good six, seven, eight weeks since I last saw him. 
It will be good to see him again. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT