BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
October 31, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/P. Mathieu
  7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Overall, that was a quite solid performance for an first match after Shanghai. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it was decent.   I served well.   I didn't start the match off returning particularly well.   I was struggling a bit with the timing on that. 
Found the court pretty quick in comparison to how it was, how it was playing four or five days ago.   I struggled a bit with that, and I started to ‑‑well, there wasn't much rhythm in the match in the beginning. 
I think towards the end of the first set we started to have a few more rallies.   But, yeah, the conditions were fast.

Q.   What do you know about Janowicz?
ANDY MURRAY:   I played him in Davis Cup a few years ago.   He's a huge guy, big serve.   He's having his best year on the tour this year.   He takes a lot of chances on the court. 
Yeah, it will be a tough match.   I mean on courts like this, if he serves big he's going to be a tough guy to break.   I don't believe he's lost his serve in the first two rounds ‑ maybe once ‑ so it will be a tough one.

Q.   With Djokovic very much outside the tournament and Federer and Nadal not here, too, you're certainly the favorite.   Do you feel that way?   What do you think are your chances to win here?
ANDY MURRAY:   Going into any tournament I don't think you ever try and place yourself as a favorite.   You know, for each match you go into you try and, you know, you just try and try and win that one. 
I have played many tournaments where I have expected to play certain guys and certain rounds, and there are regularly upsets in tournaments you don't play the guys you're seeded to be playing against. 
It's just important to just try and focus on your matches, and I'll need to improve on tonight's match if I want to do well here.

Q.   How would you assess your shape at this stage of the season?   Are you still fresh mentally or physically?   How would you assess this level?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I'm not as fresh as I was at the start of the year, but, I mean, I feel okay.   I mean, I feel better at this stage than I did at the same tournament last year, so that's obviously a positive. 
I think I have managed my schedule a little bit better this year than I have done in previous years; it was very important to do that this year with the Olympics as well.
I'm happy with the way I have scheduled the year, and hope I can finish it well.

Q.   Coming to a city like this as a Grand Slam champion, has there been anything different maybe sort of on your travels around the hotel or anything like that?
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   I have a nicer hotel room than I had the last few times I came, but aside from that, everything has pretty much been the same. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT