SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 11, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/A. Dolgopolov
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Considering you had a walkover in the previous round, you must have been pleased the way you were into your stride pretty quickly today. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think I did a decent job.   It's very, very different conditions to last week.   I think you can see by some of the results here, the guys that have come from Beijing have adapted to the conditions much, much quicker. 
So, yeah, I just tried to stay solid and go for the lines too much early on.   I tried to keep the ball low.   You know, he's very explosive when the ball's up around his shoulders.   Just tried to keep the ball low, play solid, and I served well. 

Q.   Could you elaborate on how the conditions are?   Is it slower or quicker?   Seemed chilly tonight out there. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, obviously that was different.   You know, the conditions in Tokyo, the last few matches, it was very hot.   The court here is playing quick.   But the balls compared with last week are completely different.   I think they use the same balls in Beijing, the Head balls.   They use Shricksen (phonetic) in Japan, which they don't use on any other tournament on the tour.   They're quite heavy, hard balls.   These ones are pretty light. 
A lot of the matches I've watched, the matches have gone pretty quick.   It feels like the court's playing a bit faster and the balls are moving quickly.   I mean, I've seen a few matches that have finished in under an hour, which these days doesn't happen too often.   There's been quite a lot of quick matches.

Q.   Andy, Roger said in his pre‑event interview that you can become world No.1 next year or even at the end of this year.   Do you have that confidence to become world No.1, especially after you won your first Grand Slam?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, to get to No.1 I don't think it's necessarily so much about confidence, it's more about consistency, focus, being able, you know, to focus throughout the whole year and be consistent from the first tournament right the way through to the last one, which a few years ago I was doing pretty well.   The last couple years I've performed better in the Grand Slams and been consistent in them, but struggled in other tournaments.   I'll need to improve my consistency if I want to get to No.1. 
But this year, again, I'm pretty sure if Novak wins a couple more matches this year, it's impossible for me to get to No.1.   So it would have to be next year or in the future if I wanted to do that. 

Q.   I just want to know what kind of books do you read, who are your favorite writers?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't read books.   I mean, I go on the Internet a lot and read stuff online, but I don't read books.   I haven't read a book since I was about 14, 15.   I got halfway through the third Harry Potter book.   It was the first one that was really, really big.   It was likes 600 pages.   I stopped around 200.   I haven't read a book since then. 

Q.   You mentioned a difference after you won the US Open.   For example, you were more relaxed going to practice.   Have you been enjoying doing the press more and more?
ANDY MURRAY:   Doing the press?   Yeah, much more.   I'm loving it now.   I'm really, really enjoying it (laughter). 

Q.   Going into the press more relaxed than before?
ANDY MURRAY:   I think it's just nicer for me, you know, because I get asked now different questions about things.   It's more about the future I'm talking about a lot of the times.   Before, I was answering a lot of questions that happened in the past.   I guess that's nice and a little bit different. 

Q.   When I see this match, I can see that you controlled the match pretty well.   But in the second set when you were broken, you threw the racquet.   I want to know how did you feel at that particular moment?   Why were you a little bit impatient at that time?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I got a bit frustrated at the beginning of the second set.   I had just broken serve and played a bad game to get broken back.   Yeah, I wanted to try and finish the match, you know, as best as I could. 
I gave away the momentum that I had and let him back into the match.   So sometimes it can be better to get your emotions out and move on.   I managed to do that by breaking the next game. 
Better to not let it fester sometimes and maybe let it affect you for a few games.   Like I say, I got the break in the next game, so that was good.

Q.   Outside of the Grand Slams, are you a fan of the combined events?   Do you think there's too many? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, to be honest it kind of depends a bit on the facilities.   If the facilities are big enough.   Sometimes it can be tough in terms of practicing and whatnot.   If the facilities are good enough, then it's fine.   If they're not, it can be quite tough to prepare for matches properly and whatnot. 
So so long as the facilities are good enough. 

Q.   You said the other day you felt relieved after your won your first Grand Slam title.   After Li Na won her first Grand Slam title, I think there's more pressure for her and she wasn't happy about it.   It was more like a burden.   Share some thoughts on that.   Maybe a difference between men and women or something else. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I don't know.   There's a lot of things that go into it.   I think for me, I would say from quite a young age there was quite a lot of pressure on me.   I also put a lot of pressure on myself.   I think since I was young, I've had to deal with that pressure.   Winning a Grand Slam in our country was obviously a big thing.   Now that I've done it, I feel more relaxed. 
I think with Li Na it happened maybe later in her career, and maybe earlier in her career there wasn't as much expectation.   When she did win one, maybe that expectation grew, and she was meant to do, or people were hoping for her to do more. 
It's obviously not easy.   I know how hard it is to win a Grand Slam.   I'm sure she does, as well.   I'm not putting any extra pressure or expectation on myself for next year to win one.   But I'll work as hard as I can to do that. 

Q.   Can I get your thoughts on your next match, on Radek Stepanek?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, he's one of the few guys that still plays at the top of the game in singles and doubles.   He's incredibly fit for his age.   I think he's maybe 33, 34 now.   He's in great shape.   He's incredibly quick and flexible.   He has a very different game style to a lot of the guys now. 
He's a character on the court, as well.   He likes to entertain, too, and can frustrate guys.   I'll need to make sure I'm focused and patient and take care of my side of the court tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT