SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 9, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   There are a lot of fans trying to see you, trying to get your autograph and take pictures with you.   Can you say something about the Chinese fans?   Is it crazy?   Are they smart enough to find you everywhere in Shanghai, on the court or off the court?   
ANDY MURRAY:   I'd say they're very enthusiastic.   They're very passionate.   Yeah, I mean, they get very excited around the practice courts and stuff.   There's a lot of people come and are at the hotel and stuff.   
I mean, they love their tennis here.   Normally towards the end of the week they get excellent crowds for the matches.   Yeah, I've always had nice support here.   
   
 Q.   You've had a few weeks now to digest being a Grand Slam champion.   You seemed almost a little shocked when it happened.   Can you talk about your feelings now, if it's changed anything for you.   
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, it hasn't changed me.   Well, I hope it hasn't changed me in any way.   I hope it gives me some more confidence when I'm on the court.   You know, that's the one thing that I hope I would have got out of it.   
I mean, I haven't felt so different.   I felt, yeah, a lot of relief.   It was a big weight off my back at the time.   So, you know, getting on the practice court, getting in the gym and stuff, has become a bit easier probably.   
Sometimes when you've had a lot of hard losses, you sometimes question whether doing all that stuff is worth it.   When you're on the court practicing, always trying to improve, you're not quite getting the results you want, that can be hard.   
The few weeks practice afterwards was nice and easy.   Looking forward to the end of the year.   
   
 Q.   You're doing Abu Dhabi the beginning of the season, but kept out Dubai.   What is the thinking behind the schedule?  
ANDY MURRAY:   The last few years I hadn't played particularly well in Indian Wells.   After Australia this year I went over to train in Miami afterwards, which I felt worked well.   I flew back to Dubai, then back over for Indian Wells.   You know, that beginning part of the year, I was a bit tired for certain tournaments.   
So I decided after the Australian Open, I'll go home for a little while and then go over to Miami and train and stay over in America for a while, get used to the conditions, try and reduce the travel at the beginning of the year.   
   
 Q.   If you can talk a little bit about Ivan, how much of your success might have come from something he said to you, how he's telling you to train.   How much do you give him credit for getting that Grand Slam title?   Also, does he work on the schedule with you, as well?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, we speak about pretty much everything to do with my tennis career.   I mean, you know, I always said it was only a few percent I needed to improve and change, and he's definitely helped a lot with that.   
You know, he gave me a bit of extra confidence.   He gave me a bit of extra belief.   We worked hard on a lot of things and I trusted what he said.   He brought obviously a lot of experience ‑ not just to me but to the rest of the guys, to the big events, also to the preparation of those events.   
Yeah, I mean, it's hard to put it into, I don't know, a number, say exactly how much he's helped.   But I also have to remember all the stuff that I'd done before.   I had got close before.   But just getting over that final hurdle, I probably needed someone like him to help with that.   
Yeah, it's worked well.   I've really enjoyed working with him.   I hope he's enjoyed it, as well.   He seems to have anyway, so I hope that continues.   
   
 Q.   With the first Grand Slam out of the way, how do you reset your focus?   What do you reset as another aim?   For example, No.1?   How do you cope with it mentally?  
ANDY MURRAY:   The goals, the tournaments, the next Grand Slam in Australia, you know, is obviously a focus that would be not that far away, but I would say is more of a long‑term goal.   There's a few tournaments between now and the end of the year I'd like to do well.   I always enjoy playing here.   
I think getting to No.1 in the world, that's more a reward for playing very good tennis throughout the whole season at pretty much every tournament you play.   You need to focus more on the process and not so much just 'No.1, No.1'.   I need to concentrate on the tournaments and the events that I'm playing.   
I'll try to do as well as I can between now and the end of the year.   If I do that, there's a possibility to possibly get to No.1 next year.   
But it's so hard to do just now because of what the guys ahead of me are doing every single week.   But to get to No.1, you need to win Grand Slams.   The Australian Open is obviously the next major focus for me.   
   
 Q.   After the US Open win, you don't have to deal with that question anymore from the media.   After New York, what is the question that has been asked most frequently from the media?  
ANDY MURRAY:   It's actually pretty much what you said at the start.   I've been asked what's is like not to be asked that question anymore (laughter).   I got asked that pretty much every time I did some media.   But, yeah, I mean, I'm sure in a few months that will get old.   
It's nice not to have to discuss it anymore.   I can just concentrate on trying to win more tournaments and trying to improve 'cause that's what I obviously want to do.   With having not won a Grand Slam, it was sometimes hard not to just focus on that all the time.   You know, it was always in my head to a certain extent.   I'm glad it's done now.   
   
 Q.   I'm not sure if you've been back home, but I know the fans have been waiting 74 years.   If you have been home, was there a different reaction?   Also, is it time to rename Henman Hill to Murray Mountain?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I think that will always stay as is.   
Yeah, I mean, I was pretty much back for 10 days.   I spent a few days in London after I got back, and then I went up to Scotland and saw my family and friends, all the people where I live, which was nice.   
I mean, the few days afterwards I started practicing one week afterwards, was going into the place where I practice, training, at night just going home.   I didn't really go out and about too much.   
It was quite nice.   I just kind of wanted to be around my friends and family and just relax and enjoy, you know, the last few months.   That was it.   
I mean, after Wimbledon, I got really, really good support, and that helped me a lot also going into the Olympics to help me get over that loss at Wimbledon a lot quicker.   
   
 Q.   Your friend Novak signed his Chinese name on the camera after a match in the China Open.   Will you try to do this in Shanghai?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No (smiling).   
   
 Q.   You should try.   
ANDY MURRAY:   I should try, should I?   
   
 Q.   Only one Chinese character is enough for your name.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Only one?   
   
 Q.   Yes.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Thank you (laughter).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT