WESTERN & SOUTHERN OPEN
August 16, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. CHARDY/A. Murray
  6‑4, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Jeremy has had a lot of pretty good results last few weeks.   He's been playing well.   Do you think that match was more about that or you struggling today?
ANDY MURRAY:   It was probably a little bit of both.   I didn't serve particularly well.   You know, I got broken three times in the second set, which isn't good enough.   You know, I broke him a couple of times in the second. 
I had a lot of close games on his serve in the first and second set and didn't convert enough chances, and, yeah, I didn't serve well enough.

Q.   Just a day where you just kind of didn't have it in you for the day or just a few points here or there?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   Sometimes a few games can change matches.     Had breakpoints in the first set.   If I had maybe gone up there maybe I would have started to play better, but when I went behind he started serving better, and he was going for his shots. 
I was a little bit uncomfortable with those balls bouncing extremely high.   It was fairly hard to control.

Q.   Was the court a factor at all, the fact you hadn't played out there?
ANDY MURRAY:   I played on that court a lot in the past, so, you know, I don't think that was the issue. 
Obviously something like my second or third match in the hard court.   I played well yesterday; didn't play so well today. 
Hopefully after a few weeks you start to have a bit more consistency.   I made quite a lot of mistakes early on in the rallies which normally I don't do.   That's why it's disappointing.

Q.   I think this is only your third hard court match of the summer since the Olympics.   Are you satisfied with how much US Open prep you have?   Are you going to try to do anything extra now?
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   I won't play any more matches.   I mean, always when going into the big tournaments, sometimes I've won tournaments in the buildup and it hasn't helped me; this year Wimbledon I lost in the first round at Queen's and made the final there for the first time.   I have won Queen's before and not done well at Wimbledon.
So it doesn't normally have that much bearing.   But, you know, obviously I would have liked to have done a bit better this week.

Q.   Do you go to NewYork straightaway then to work?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, probably, yeah. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT