ROGERS CUP MEN
August 9, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Andy Murray has unfortunately been forced to withdraw with a knee injury, and we would like to open up for questions, please. 

Q.   About the match on Olympics games with Novak Djokovic, what is your comments about that, please? 
THE MODERATOR:   I think we need to stick to this now since it wasn't a match. 

Q.   When did you make the decision to withdraw, and what is the situation with the knee right now? 
ANDY MURRAY:   I decided this morning.   Obviously it was a bit sore yesterday, then had some treatment and stuff after the match.   It felt a bit better, and then came in today, I saw the physios, they did some work on it, and it's still a bit sore.
Then I did a little warmup on the bike to try it out and it was still sore, so I had to make a decision as to what I was going to do.   Spoke with the guys and decided the best thing was to rest and try and make sure I can actually let my body kind of adjust to the surface. 
Normally when I move on to hard courts, you know, you have ten days or so practicing and you feel things like this, but you can work round it by doing the right training and whatnot; whereas I don't want to go full out and possibly do any more damage. 
That was why I decided not to play. 

Q.   Are you quite concerned about the situation when you look ahead to the next few weeks?   Couple more big tournaments coming up. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, it's not ideal, yeah.   But my physio is going to be in Cincinnati, so I'll be able to see him and get as much treatment as possible. 
And also the training, wasn't able to do anything to adjust to the surface and get used to the movement at all.   I'll be able to do that and give it a few days and see how it feels. 
The hard courts, for me anyway, is the hardest on my body.   Always takes me a bit of time to get used to playing on them again.   Yeah, I hope it doesn't affect the next few weeks too much.

Q.   What's the worst for you with movement?   Up and down?   Laterally? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Laterally, yeah.   It was when I was pushing from like my left side running out to my right‑hand side was where I was getting the pain.

Q.   Any regrets for playing yesterday? 
ANDY MURRAY:   No, none.   I mean, I think I wanted to come and try and play, and actually played pretty decent yesterday for a first match on the hard courts.
I mean, ideally I would be feeling perfect, but I don't think that was ever going to be the situation after how the Olympics finished.   I gave it a go.   Obviously picked up a niggle, and would rather not have done that.
At least I got one match in and played a little bit on the hard courts.   I mean, now I have to take a couple days off without playing, so may have set me back slightly. 

Q.   You've had problems with your knees before.   Where does this fit in in the spectrum?   Familiar with this type of injury?
ANDY MURRAY:   My right knee, I was born with a bipartite patella, so that still does give my trouble from time to time.   The left knee, never really had many problems with it beforehand, so that's why, again, another reason for making this decision. 
Never really had any problems with my left knee before, so I want to make sure it's not something that I'm going to play through and maybe damage it a little bit more. 

Q.   Is it above or middle or below the knee?
ANDY MURRAY:   Just on the side of the knee. 

Q.   You got treatment at the change of ends at the 3‑2 game in the second set yesterday.   Did it happen in that fifth game or just before that?
ANDY MURRAY:   Happened in the fifth game, yeah.   We played quite a long point.   Actually won the point.   I finished up at the net.   I think he hit dropshot then maybe hit a volley behind me and missed or hit a drop volley and missed it just wide. 
Yeah, just felt it when I was pushing off on that point.   When I got the treatment on the court the sharp pain wasn't there, but was just getting quite a lot of clicking in my knee, which normally means it's not tracking properly.   Some muscles around it are really tight, and that causes clicking. 
Yeah, again, that's probably due to probably a bit of fatigue in the muscles from the traveling and whatnot.   Probably pretty tight as well.

Q.   What will you do now as far as treatment?   Is it a matter of just resting it?   Ice?   Massage? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, well, this morning a lot of massage on the muscles up and down here.   (Indicating side of left knee.)   I'll ice it for sure. 
In terms of kind of where I go from here, I don't know.   We'll talk about it with the team this evening and decide what the best thing to do is, if it's to hang here for a couple days or go on to Cincinnati or go to Miami or whatever. 
I don't know.   Yeah, I'll decide that this evening. 

Q.   I'm just wondering, a period like this when you're resting, are you taking an opportunity to mentally prepare for the next matches to sort of work out some strategies for the next matches after the rest period? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, right now, no.   Over the next few days we'll come up with a plan and strategy to either get myself ready for Cincinnati, or if not, then plan for the best way to prepare for the US Open. 
But today I certainly won't think about any strategies or whatever.   It'll just be about what's the next move and where do we go from here. 

Q.   Have you had a chance to talk to Milos?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I saw him 15 minutes ago.   Yeah.

Q.   You told him, obviously. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   Well, he heard.   I spoke to the tournament director and apologized to him, and then came upstairs and Milos just came up and had a little joke about it. 
In Miami earlier in the year he pulled out against me, and then obviously we paid him the favor today. 
But, no, it happens.   It does happen a lot in individual sports.   It's unfortunate.   I think it would have been a fun match.   I hope he has a good tournament.   Be great for him to go deep in this the tournament here for the first time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT