LONDON 2012 OLYMPIC GAMES
July 28, 2012
Jamie Murray
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MURRAY‑MURRAY/Melzer‑Peya
  5‑7, 7‑6, 7‑5 

THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Andy and Jamie. 

Q.   Where did it go wrong, in your opinion? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I don't really think it necessarily went wrong anywhere. 
I think we played, you know, a good match.   It was a very tight, tight match.   We obviously played well in the first couple of sets.   And the third set was maybe a bit more patchy.   But we still had our chances to win and, you know, lost a long game on Jamie's serve after having a couple of game points. 
It just came down to a couple of points here or there.   There wasn't anything that went wrong.   It wasn't a match we were necessarily expected to win.   Those guys are very experienced doubles players. 
Melzer has won the doubles here before.   He's won the mixed doubles here, as well.   You know, Peya has been sort of top 20 doubles last few years as well.   It was always going to be a tough match. 

Q.   The atmosphere seemed great out there.   What did you think of the whole Olympic experience? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I enjoyed it.   I think they did a great job.   It was packed, you know, from the start to the finish.   Yeah, they helped a lot. 
You know, you don't always get that for first‑round doubles matches.   They were there from start to finish.   Yeah, they helped us in tough moments. 
You know, we were really pumped.   I think it was a high‑quality match.   There were a lot of good points.   I hope it was entertaining for them. 

Q.   How did you both think the court played?   The courts look to me like they're breaking up a little bit, more than they would at this stage of Wimbledon. 
JAMIE MURRAY:   It was fine.   I mean, it's fast out there.   The ball is coming through quick. 
But, no, it was fine. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, the back of the courts are always going to be a bit different to where they were the beginning of Wimbledon.   They were played on just a few weeks ago.   They're going to cut up a little bit more than normal. 
But the court, I think because of the weather as well, last sort of five, six days, you know, during Wimbledon was very, very cool conditions, obviously rained a lot, so it was sort of damp and heavy.   It's obviously been pretty dry and warm.   So that normally speeds the court up a little bit. 

Q.   I know it was only one match, but you obviously spent a lot of time looking forward to playing the London Olympics together, hoping you would do well.   How disappointing is it?   As a unit, a family unit, a chance that's gone?   You look forward to doing something again in the future? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I think, you know, to be in this position for a start is great.   There's not many brothers that get the chance to play in the Olympics.   You know, so if we look at it like that, from when we began playing tennis to get this far, to get the chance to play in a home Olympics together, you know, it's obviously fantastic. 
It was a very proud moment for both of us, you know, and our families as well, I'm sure.   We haven't let anybody down in that respect.   But, you know, right now it's disappointing to lose because, yeah, we had chances.   Not just because of that.   We can't just play again next week.   We have to wait a long time to get the opportunity again. 
That's why the Olympics is so special.   It comes round once every four years.   That's why it's tough to lose in this one in particular.

Q.   Did you feel that you played a lot better than Beijing together? 
JAMIE MURRAY:   I guess.   But same result, isn't it?   We lost.   It's disappointing.   One tournament every four years, once‑in‑a‑lifetime chance to play an Olympics in your own country.   You know, we lost.   We won't get another chance to do it.   That's what hurts the most, I think. 

Q.   What did you think of the opening ceremony and how disappointing was it not to be able to go? 
ANDY MURRAY:   I think all of the athletes, we'd like to go, you know, if it was possible.   I'm sure if we went and didn't play well, we would get heavily criticized, as well. 
So, you know, you need to make sure.   I wouldn't do something like that, you know, before a Grand Slam.   You know, it would have been a very late night, as well, so that's why the decision was taken as far as not to go. 
But, yeah, every athlete would love to be involved in that because, you know, it was a great occasion.   It's not something you get to do every day of the week.   They did a great job.   It was fun.   Put a smile on people's faces.   Yeah, shame that we couldn't go, but we have to do what's right for the tennis, and that's to get an early night and prepare properly. 

Q.   Andy, looking ahead to your singles match tomorrow, today was a long match, but would you regard that as a good thing, to have had a competitive match today? 
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   You know, sometimes I play doubles and played well.   I don't really feel like it has a whole lot of bearing. 
I'm sure Court2 plays very different to Centre Court.   It's a completely different match and way of playing tennis.   It's not similar really in any way tactically, the way you serve, the way you move.   You know, I won't be serve‑volleying much tomorrow and I won't be crouched down in an I position much tomorrow either.
I don't think it will make much bearing on the outcome of tomorrow's match. 

Q.   How did it compare with the Wimbledon which you've been going to every year, having pressure?   Here we have the Olympics, it's very different in atmosphere, the crowd.   Did you prefer that to how it is normally for you?
ANDY MURRAY:   It's not necessarily a preference thing, it's just different.   It's the first time I played doubles here in a long time.   The atmosphere was fantastic.   You know, it's the first time I played off Court1 or Centre for quite a few years, as well. 
It was nice.   I enjoyed it.   It wasn't better or worse; it's a different sort of atmosphere; it's a different sort of pressure.   Doubles is obviously different pressure to playing singles. 
Also, when Wimbledon's on, it feels like it's the only thing that's happening in the world.   But it's obviously not.   That's sometimes how it feels when you're involved in it. 
Obviously, during the Olympics, there's so many competitions, so many events, you know that the pressure is somewhat different. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT