AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 13, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. MAHUT/A. Murray
  6‑3, 6‑7, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Where did you feel it went wrong, Andy?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't think it all went wrong.   I mean, it was a very close match.   I thought losing serve at the beginning of the third set after breaking him was probably not great.   Got him back into the match.   
Then, yeah, I missed probably about four shots on the tape and a roll in a tiebreak.   They were probably the bits that didn't help.  
   
 Q.   Was it the case of adjusting to the grass or he played particularly well or a little bit of both?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I didn't move very well at the start of the match.   I started to move better.  
I mean, he's a very good grass court player.   He's been in the final here.   He's beaten Nadal and a point away from winning the tournament.   He's a very good grass court player.   He played well today.  
   
 Q.   As far as Wimbledon goes, how worried are you about that?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Oh, panic stations.   I've just   got no chance to be ready for Wimbledon now.   It's going to be impossible, I think.   (Smiling.)  
It happens often.   I mean, Djokovic isn't playing the next two weeks, so, I mean, there is no need for me to panic.   You know, I lost the match 7‑6 in the third in the first round of the tournament.   You know, it takes a bit of time to adjust to the grass courts.   
   
 Q.   What will you do from now on?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I don't know.   I'll discuss with the guys over the next couple of days as to what I'm going to do, whether I play one or two of the exhibition matches next week.   
Unlikely I would play a tournament, but I'll probably try and get a couple more matches.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel things have been going well in practice the last few days?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I didn't spend hardly any time on the court, really.   So, yeah.   I mean, I don't know.   It obviously rained a lot the last few days.   I was hitting the ball fine today.   It wasn't like I was shanking balls and mishitting.   I just need to spend more time on the grass.  
   
 Q.   Was that a factor, you think, in the defeat today, the fact you hadn't had much time on grass?  
ANDY MURRAY:   It was exactly the same for both of us.   Weather has been the same for everybody in the tournament.   It was not exactly a factor.   Just for me I need a few more days to get my movement right, and then I'll play better.  
   
 Q.   Is this the most difficult transition, do you think, in the game?   If you're a little bit worried about the treacherous nature of the grass, does that sow a few seeds of doubt in your mind?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I have never really had a problem with it before, but that's probably one of the toughest first matches I've also played here, as well.   
Normally it's a transition I found not too bad, but I did struggle with my movement especially earlier on in the match.   That's something that I will need to improve.  
   
 Q.   There have been quite a few instances recently of you dropping serve immediately after you've made a breakthrough.   Is that something you've talked about with Ivan?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I've discussed many, many things with him.   I mean, the match in the French Open against Ferrer, that happened numerous times.   I mean, it happened‑‑ I mean, I think it happened once today.  
You know, in the match against Ferrer it happened way, way too often.   You know, but I think you can look at things in loads of detail, and you actually need to go back and watch the match and see if it's something you were doing wrong.   Sometimes obviously guys are going to play good games.  
The match against Ferrer, it happened too often for it to be his good play every time.   Today I'll need to have a look and see what happened.   
   
 Q.   Does that become a factor?   Do you think about that?   When you break serve, do you think, Oh, I hope I don't go into that mode again and drop serve straightaway?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I've played probably close to 450, 500 matches, so, you know, you can go through periods sometimes where you're serving for a set and you struggle, and it maybe takes a few weeks or a few matches before you kind of get it out of your system.   
Sometimes the start of matches you find it tough at the start, and then you might go out on the court the next week maybe a little bit anxious.   Then obviously the last couple of weeks, I mean ‑‑I mean, I don't know.   I wasn't thinking about that today at all.   I wasn't thinking about my match with Ferrer when I was playing out there one bit.   So I don't think it will be a problem in the next couple of weeks.  
   
 Q.   When you get onto the grass, what is the bigger factor?   The timing of your shots or the movement or it just goes hand in hand?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, it's a lot of things.   I mean, tactics, as well, is something, and getting used to actually playing the points.   Points develop very differently on the grass, as well, than on the clay.   
Also the situations in matches as well are very different on the grass.   So there's many, many things that go into it.  
   
 Q.   Tommy Haas yesterday suggested you have more injuries and you make the most out of them.   Are you disappointed in that?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   That's good for him.   Nothing to say on it.   That's good.   Good for him.   
   
 Q.   (Off microphone.)  
ANDY MURRAY:   No, the time I have been on tour I've been called many, many things from my personality not being exciting enough.   I have been called boring.   It was said I was unfit, lazy, fake injuries.   I mean, all sorts.   
It's something that kind of goes hand in hand with playing sport.   People criticize you regularly.   So something you need to ‑‑you need to just deal with.   But, I mean, I don't care for his opinion.   
   
 Q.   The thing about not playing doubles here?   
ANDY MURRAY:   It was nothing, nothing to do with it.   I mean, it's very easy to try and overanalyze a match, I think.   Today it was a very close match.   It wasn't like I went out on the court and got blown away and played horribly.   
You know, like I say, I didn't feel like I moved particularly well at the start of the match.   I would have liked to have started the match a bit better.  
I thought I played some decent tennis, and I felt like I was striking the ball well.   Then in the third‑set tiebreak, I missed some shots on the tape.   I missed three shots in a row, I think I hit the tape, and one an inch or two wide on the 1‑0 point.   
Yeah, ideally I would have liked to have started the tiebreaker a bit better and not missed those shots.   
   
 Q.   You may consider Eastbourne?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, very, very unlikely I would play a tournament next week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT