MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 20, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. BERDYCH/A. Murray
  6‑7, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Andy.   
   
 Q.   Great effort to take the first set, given all the breakpoints.   Where do you think it got away from you?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, he played better.   So, I mean, I hung in the first set.   Both of us struggled a little bit for rhythm at the end of the set.   Quite a lot of dodgey bounces.   We were kind of a little bit unsure of ourselves, I guess.   
He had some chances on my serve.   Then the tiebreak I got a few lucky bounces.   He missed, you know, a couple of shots that he hadn't been missing.   
Yeah, start of the second set it was where he obviously started playing better and my level dropped clearly, as the results, the scoreline, suggests.  
   
 Q.   Was that concentration?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Sometimes guys play great tennis.   I mean, for me he played very, very well today.   For his game style, he made very few unforced errors.   Every time I lose a match, I get asked, What did you do wrong?   
Sometimes the guys play well.   He played extremely well today.   He dictated a lot of the points.   He went for his shots.   He served very well, I think, too.   He served a lot of serves close to the lines.   It was sort of first serve, first hit in the rally.   
No matter how much you would have liked to have dictated the points, when someone serves 137 miles an hour to the line, hits a forehand to the line, you can't dictate the point.   That's what happened on his service games.   
On mine, you know, I tried to use some variation, which worked well at times, and sometimes it didn't work so well.   
But for me, every week on the clay, you know, it's quite a slow process.   I'm never going to play my best straightaway.   It was a decent start.   The level of today's match was pretty good.   Just made a few more mistakes than normal.  
   
 Q.   When someone is playing at that level, is it exasperating to try to create chances against him?   Did it get to you that you couldn't get into any rhythm on his serve?  
ANDY MURRAY:   When you say 'get to me'?   
   
 Q.   Was it frustrating for you out there mentally?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I think for everybody it's frustrating when you're losing a match and the guy is making it difficult for you to create chances.   Any sport, at any level, when the guy you're playing against is taking big risks, getting big rewards, not making too many errors, it's just tough.   
   
 Q.   Is there anything you could have done differently or you would have liked to have done better?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, there are a lot of things I would have liked to have done better.   It takes a lot of time for me to do it on this surface.   It doesn't come straightaway.   It takes time for me to understand the way I'm needing to play.   
At some points today in the match I did well; some points I didn't do so well.   It's going to take me a few weeks.   Today is a good match to learn from because I was playing a top player who played very, very well.   
It was a long match.   Physically, you know, good for me I think, as well.   2 hours and 40 minutes.   I did a lot of the running.   It was good for me physically.   
Just playing matches is what I need right now.   
   
 Q.   Madrid is going to be played on blue clay in two weeks.   Do you like this change or would you prefer to remain on red clay?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, it's only a few weeks before the French Open, and the French Open is played on red clay.   So for the players, it would be better for it to be on the red clay.   
But at the same time, you know, I've watched sometimes in Madrid.   It's very difficult to see the ball.   I understand the reasons for doing it.   It makes the tournament unique and a bit different.   Sometimes that's good for the tour.   
But the timing of it is what makes it difficult for the players.   I've never played on a blue clay court before.   I have no idea how the surface will play.   So that will be a new experience.   
   
 Q.   Talking about the surface here, was there a little bit of a sense that you were worried about your footwork at the back of the court today?  
ANDY MURRAY:   The first set, yeah, you know, it was my bad for being so far back there.   You know, you want to try to be a bit close to the line.   But I think it's normal.   As the match goes on, you kind of forget about it.   But when you see that happen a few times in the same spot, you're naturally going to be a little bit conscious of it.   
But, yeah, you know, when I was worried about it, I was winning, and when I wasn't worried about it, I was losing.   It had no real relevance to the match.  
   
 Q.   So trying to impose your game, you wanted to try to play forward.   Is that tough when a guy is striking the ball as solidly and effectively as he was today?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   Also I was saying, in the first set, you know, at points I was doing well, but also both of us were a little bit unsure.   I mean, for him at the end of the set, you saw literally two horrible bounces.   One he couldn't even hit the ball.   It literally rolled on the ground.   There was a few rough bounces.   
I was maybe a bit tense on the ball.   Against him, when you do that, you have to move a bit further back to try and defend his pace.   So, you know, I need to make sure I do a better job of that next week, which I will.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   The thing you were talking about yesterday about the court being adjusted after the Davis Cup and taking time to settle down...   
ANDY MURRAY:   The thing is, I mean, everybody's been talking a lot about the court this week.   Most clay courts there's bad bounces on.   It's never perfect.   If guys slide or dig up a bit of clay, there's bits that are hard.   There's normally bad bounces.   It just seemed this week there was more of them than normal.   
That's no reason for me winning or losing the match.   Everybody's had to deal with the same thing.   It's made it harder to go out there and necessarily feel great and feel like your timing is perfect on the ball, you know, which is something that for me is important.   That's how I play.   I'm a ball‑striker.   That's my game.   I rely on returning a lot.   It's an important part of the game for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT