SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Is it fair to say this is one of the stranger weeks of your tennis career, two walkovers?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   I mean, to be honest, it hasn't really happened to me that often where even one guy has done that.   Actually, like last week, couple weeks ago, I was trying to remember like when it happened, and I remember Tursunov in Shanghai, and then before that I couldn't really remember when it happened before that.
So, yeah.   I mean, to get two in one week is strange.   That doesn't happen often really at all.   Yeah, strange.

Q.   Will you have any anxiety about not having had enough court time going into the final?
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, I don't know.   You don't really know the answer to that.   You never know how you're gonna play on the day.   Obviously, you know, you don't play a match for three or four days, it's different than if you played one, you know, one or two days ago.
But then the positives are that you're going to be fresh and physically feeling fine.   So who knows.   Wait and see on the day.   It's never happened to me before.   So I don't really know how I'm gonna feel for the final, but I'll definitely be fresh.

Q.   Can you actually recall going on court, preparing to play a left‑hander, and suddenly find yourself half an hour later playing someone who's right‑handed preparing for another match?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it is.   I mean, like you say, it's never really happened to me like that before. 
Obviously I guess the one benefit here is that there is a day in between, so I'll have tomorrow to practice with righties.   The last of couple days I have been hitting with lefties. 
Practiced for like half an hour, 40 minutes with last Paes and Stepanek just to get used to playing righties again. 
I have done a lot of practicing, a lot of hitting balls this week, not a lot of match play.   It's been quite a strange week. 
Hopefully the final, whoever it is, is going to be fit and well and we can have a good match.

Q.   I know there is a rivalry, but how much of you says, Hey, good, I'll take this?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, today not really.   I mean, you know, every time you play against one of the top guys in the world, it's always a good opportunity to see exactly where your game's at. 
You know, I have been working with Ivan now for a couple of months.   We worked on a lot of things to see, certain tactics and stuff and practice that would work against Rafa, Novak, and Roger.   It would have been, I mean, for me, nice to see whether or not those things were working.
Yeah.   I mean, I guess when it happens, you've got to take it, but at the same time it's always a good test to see pretty much exactly where your game's at.
Like after the Australian Open, it was good for me to play against Novak quite soon afterwards, after I had done the 10‑day training block of working on some things, and I obviously won against him but then lost against Roger.
So some things that work well against Novak don't work so well against Roger, and the things that work against Rafa don't work against those two (smiling).
So, yeah, it's a good test, um, of the things you've been working on every time you play against them.

Q.   Did you speak to Rafa today?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   He messaged me ‑‑I actually didn't see it.   When I got told, I sat down and looked at my phone, and he messaged me to tell me that he wasn't going to play.   So I guess that was pretty much just as I started practicing, and then I saw him afterwards in the locker room, and, yeah, I spoke to him for a little bit.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT