SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 28, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Tipsarevic
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   A good turnaround from 2‑Love down, second set, with the way things were going then?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it was a strange match.   I mean, a lot of chances in the first set, went a break down and then went a break up.   
Um, had a chance to go up 5‑2.   Didn't take them.   Then he started playing better.   Both of us struggled on serve, I think, for, well, up until the third set pretty much.  
You know, it was four or five breaks in each of the first couple of sets.  
It was tough, tough conditions.   But I thought I struck the ball pretty well from the back of the court.   Was hitting it pretty clean but needed to make better shot selection.   Because of the wind, was maybe trying to hit it too close to the line and not building the points as much I needed to.   So when I did that, I did a bit better.  
   
 Q.   Can you just explain what the conditions you were having when you called the doctor on was?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I got up like 3‑2 in the first set.   I think ‑‑I don't know exactly what it was.   Basically the last two sets I hardly drunk anything.   
I have this thing that tests how hydrated you are, which I used that for the match, and I was very hydrated, even though I'd drunk nothing the last couple of sets.   So I don't know if I drunk too much beforehand and kind of overhydrated and was, I don't know, just filled with ‑‑ stomach was filled with liquid.   Each time I took a sip I wanted to burp, basically.   (Smiling.)  
You know, I had it once before in Bangkok.   I had it the whole week when I was there.   It might be something to do with that.   I need to make sure I address it before the next match.  
   
 Q.   When you had your treatment, that would coincide with quite a fast improvement.   Was it the treatment or the fact you got your game together?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I stopped drinking.   You know, I took two tablets.   I don't know if it's for indigestion.   He said it was to settle my stomach down.   
I drank very, very little the last two sets. I mean, must have been something to do with that.   It was so hot and humid, and to come off the court hydrated after not really drinking would probably suggest that I had drunk way too much.  
   
 Q.   On a day like today when you're not feeling well, any thoughts maybe of changing your tactics or being a little bit more aggressive as opposed to long baseline rallies?   I mean, it worked, obviously, but...   
ANDY MURRAY:   Um, well, I mean, I felt like in the first set I was trying to do too much with the ball and therefore making more mistakes than I needed to or that I normally do.   
Then the first and second set when I went behind I started playing more high percentage tennis.   You know, I was playing closer to the baseline but maybe taking his time away a little bit more.  
But, I mean, rushing and trying to end points quickly in today's game is pretty much impossible to win playing that way.  
So you can take chances, but you've got to wait for the right ball to do that on.   And sometimes if you're up 40‑Love in a game or 30‑Love you can maybe try and shorten points a little bit, but, um, you don't want to do it for the start of many games because it's not going to work in the long run, especially on a windy day like today.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk a little bit about the semifinals, both guys you might be seeing?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, both are very exciting players.   Rafa, I've always quite enjoyed playing him on hard courts.   He's obviously very tough for everybody.   He's played well here the last couple of years.   I think it's a good, good court for him, pretty good conditions.   He's obviously playing some good tennis.   You know, semis singles last week and won the doubles.   So he's played a lot, you know, after taking quite a long break.  
And Tsonga, I think probably it's the highest ranking of his career, so he's playing really good tennis.   Surprisingly ‑‑I don't think he has a coach just now, you know, which is surprising not to have a coach for a year and he's playing the best tennis of his career.  
So that's working out well for him.   He does play, I guess, a bit like a free spirit on the court.   He takes a lot of chances, plays a very aggressive game, serves and volleys a bit and makes it difficult for you.   He doesn't give you much rhythm.   He's a tough guy to play.  
   
 Q.   After Indian Wells, how good does that feel to be this far?  
ANDY MURRAY:   It's good.   Today's match was really important for me to get through after how it was going to fight back after being a break down a few times in the second set.   And then also, at the end of the third set when I was up a break, he had   break point in a tight game, and I came up with some big serves and served my way out of trouble, which is important.  
So, yeah, it's good to be in the semifinals and hopefully can rest, recover, and play well on Friday.   
   
 Q.   Unrelated to the match, just a question about your mom.   She's the captain for the Fed Cup.   Did it change the dynamic of the family since she got into that?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No, not really.   It's all ‑‑she's probably around more.   The only thing changed is she's probably around more of the tournaments now.   
The first time she had ever been to Indian Wells was last week.   She had been to Miami here a couple of times, but she‑‑ um, yeah, she's probably doing a bit more traveling than she used to.   It's nice having her around a few more of the events, but it didn't change anything.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT