SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 23, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/A. Falla
  6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   A nice reassuring win, especially after the memory of last year?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I think that's kind of behind me now.   I mean, he's a tough player.   You know, he's had some good wins, and he pushed Federer at Wimbledon very, very close.   
He beat Mardy, you know, at the Australian Open.   He's a tough guy to play against, very different to how a lot of guys play nowadays.   He hits the ball ‑‑ you know, for the way a South America normally plays it's pretty flat.   
He plays quite close to the baseline and doesn't look like he's doing that much with the ball.   But he changes direction of the ball pretty well, too.  
I was expecting it to be tricky, and started off that way and managed to play better.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel like this tournament is almost a bit of sort of home tournament in a way with your connection with Florida and Ivan?   Does that make it all the better to do well here?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I have always enjoyed playing this tournament.   I have just struggled a bit the last couple years here.   But before that I won and made semis I think the year before that.   Always enjoyed it.  
So it's nice.   Got a lot of friends and family around this week, and that always helps.   And being in your own place.   Right now just after I'm done here, being able to go back and just relax in your own place is nice.  
   
 Q.   You were one of those players that are independent thinkers when you are on the tennis court, and now you have been working with a different coach.   How is it for you to listen to somebody when you have your own mind and your own, you know, view of the game?   Is it hard?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Um, that's a good question, actually.   Yeah, I mean, it's not ‑‑ one of the hardest things I think as the coach, and especially someone that used to play, an ex‑player, is actually putting themself in your shoes and understanding the way that your mind works.  
You know, a lot of ex‑players, view things like this is how I would have done in that situation, or that's how I would have played or whatever; whereas Ivan has been actually very, very good with that.   He asks a lot of questions, as well, to understand why you maybe chose to hit a certain shot or what your favorite shots in certain moments are.  
He's been very, very good with that, which is not the case with all coaches.   He also understands that, you know, there is a lot of things that coaches can do that maybe annoy players.  
Often the players aren't, I don't know, open enough to sort of say to them, because you don't want to hurt, you know, the coach's feelings or whatever, and he's, You know, if there is anything that I'm doing that you don't like, just tell me.   I don't care.   Because when I worked with Tony Roche, there were a lot of things at the start that he did that I didn't like, and it took me a little while to tell him.   
But he didn't care.   Tony Roche didn't care once he told him.   Ivan said that to me, so we have not had any problems because of that.  
   
 Q.   Have you had to tell him?   
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   I mean, a lot of times he's just sort of asked the questions and I have told him.   You know, it can be small things like something that used to really annoy him was played was when Tony Roche fed the ball from the side of the court.   
He hated, it and he let him do it for a little while.   Once he told him, Look, I hate it when you do that, those things over time, they build up.   It was like, How many balls do you like, you know, to whenever when you're serving?   It was all little things that might seem unimportant, but the little things often are.  
He just asks the questions and I give him the answers.   We have had no problems so far (smiling).  
   
 Q.   What do you think having the Olympics at Wimbledon is going to be like?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, it will be great, I'm sure.   It's going to be strange seeing people wearing colors.   I don't know exactly if they're doing anything different to like the backdrops of the courts.   I don't know if they're making them ‑‑ if they're staying green or whatever or they're keeping the seats the same.   I don't know.  
But seeing all the players wearing colors will be interesting, because never seen it before.  
   
 Q.   Are you planning on playing mixed?   I'm sorry, I don't know.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I haven't totally decided what I'm going to do.   I think it will be good to sit down with all the players and kind of find out what‑‑ I don't even know what the rules are, to be honest, on who's accepted for mixed and how many teams are accepted for doubles and is there wildcards and all that stuff.  
So I'm sure in the next couple of months we'll have a chat about it.  
   
 Q.   What's your thought about the addition of mixed doubles to the Olympics?   
ANDY MURRAY:   It's great.   I mean, why not?   I think they should have that.   You know, I went and watched ‑‑ actually at the last Olympics I watched the badminton, mixed doubles at badminton.   It was absolutely fascinating.   I loved it.   Really enjoyed it.   
   
 Q.   What was fascinating about it?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, for me, I used to watch my mum playing badminton when I was a child.   Used to watch her play loads of mixed doubles.   It's just that tactically the game changes a lot, and mixed doubles in tennis is exactly the same thing.   
It's a different way of playing doubles.   There is a certain technique and style to it that I'm actually not very good at, but my brother gets it.   He's very good.   He's very good at it, and it's just a different type of tennis.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel in the game?   Because the beginning seemed an even game, but afterwards you found more comfort, you found how you play your better tennis.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, there's always nerves at the start of matches.   I had like three break points in his first service game, and the first three break points I had I missed every return and didn't make him play enough.   First game where I broke was like 10 minutes, and I didn't play a great game after that.   
Once I settled down and started playing, playing well, I was in most of his service games.   So I was putting pressure on him.   I served pretty well at the end of the first set, as well.  
The first game of the second set was very important, too.   I had saved a couple of break points, and once I got ahead there, I felt much more comfortable.  
   
 Q.   What do you think about your opponent?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, he's very good.   Unorthodox, I guess, in a way, you know, especially for where he comes from.   He plays a slightly different style.   I mean, he doesn't make that many basic mistakes.   
Normally takes like five, six, seven shots in a rally before he starts to make the errors.   I had to change the pace of the ball, make every shot different, because when it's sort of around between his hip and his shoulder he hardly misses.   So I had to change the pace of the ball a lot.  
   
 Q.   I have a question about Roland Garros.   What is your best memory related to Roland Garros?  
ANDY MURRAY:   For myself or any time?   
   
 Q.   In general, generally.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, last year was my best‑‑ would be my best memories personally, because I went through quite a lot in that tournament.   I had the ankle problem and didn't think I was gonna play.   Came back from two sets to love down against Troicki, and still wasn't really feeling good even up to the end of the tournament.   
So it was a big event.   Mentally it was very challenging, but one I came away from pretty happy with.   So last year would have been my best memory.  
But watching the year that Gaudio won, for me, would have been the most interesting, I think, because Tim Henman got to the semifinals so I watched all of his run.   
And then obviously with what happened in the final it was, you know, very tough for Courier, but incredible for Gaudio to win.   
   
 Q.   How much time do you spend in Miami or Miami Beach?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Miami.  
   
 Q.   Is it home?   Do you consider that your home base now?   How have you adjusted to the climate here?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, before this year I probably would have spent about two‑and‑a‑half months there.   This year I probably spent about three‑and‑a‑half months, I would have thought.   Trying to spend as much time here as I can for training purposes.   
I mean, the weather here is pretty much the best training conditions you can have.   It's quite windy, so when you're on the court it's not that easy.   But also very humid and hot, too.   I mean, I practice on this court here, so there is very little shade on the court.  
It's hard.   Hard training conditions.  
   
 Q.   I missed Indian Wells, and I saw there was an interesting quote you gave.   You said a lot of things go into tennis matches.   You have to make sure you're clear in your mind.   Was there something off the court bothering you or were you concentrating too hard on techniques you're working on?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No, it can be many things that go into‑‑ I think that's one of the things that not everybody realizes.   They think you just kind of go on the court and you should be fine.   That whole week I practiced great.   In the buildup to it I was playing really, really well, and then obviously the match didn't.  
So you look at the things that went wrong, things that were going wrong on and off the court, and if there is anything you need to change then you do that.  
That's something that maybe in the past I wasn't particularly good at, but now that you get more mature and been through different experiences you know how to deal with those situations, and then everything is good.   
   
 Q.   Did Ivan identify anything?   Did he sort of pick anything up long distance?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I spoke to him.   First thing he said to me was, Don't worry about it at all.   Don't overthink it.   It happens sometimes.   The conditions in Indian Wells are very, very different to most places that we play on the tour.   
He actually said that if he had had his way he would never have played at Indian Wells because he didn't like the conditions there.   
You know, he just said, Don't worry about it.   I spoke to all of the guys.   Everyone said your attitude was good in practice.   You did everything that they asked you to do off the court.   That's all you can do.   Sometimes you just have a bad day, as well.   So that was kind of what he said.  
Then when we got on the court here we just got back to working on all of the stuff I was doing before Dubai, before Australia, and just got back to doing the basics.   
Sometimes if you want to play too well‑‑ like today, you know, I didn't do anything incredible, but I was very, very solid.   I made him work really hard and did all the basics well.   That can get you wins and builds confidence.   That's what I needed today.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT