DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
March 3, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/A. Murray
  7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What made the difference?   
ANDY MURRAY:   I think second set he played better than me.   For sure I made a few too many mistakes in the second, and he was playing a lot more aggressive than in the first set.  
I think the game he broke me, especially at break point, he had a great serve and got almost a dropshot off the first serve, which is a little bit, you know, unfortunate.   
That sometimes happens when you plat on the quicker courts like they used to be in the past.   Sets can come down to just a couple points.  
You get a lucky shot here or one great shot and you can break the set wide open.   So I think that was the difference in the first set; second set he played better.  
   
 Q.   You feel on this fast court once you get ahead the conditions maybe help frontrunners, don't they?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it does help when you're in front in the match.   I mean, I had my chance at 3‑2, I think, in the first set, a couple break points.   Didn't play two good points there.  
But, yeah, I mean, overall it was a good week.   It was perfect preparation for the stretch over in America.   Got through very tough matches against top top players, so it was good.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to defeat Novak and Roger in the same tournament?   Just one day between the two, too.   
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, it's not so much beating them back‑to‑back.   It's just difficult to beat them.   I mean, it's not that often where guys beat top players on back‑to‑back days.   It's not an easy thing to do.   
But, I mean, it's not‑‑ it's definitely not impossible.   It's happened many times before.   
   
 Q.   Until that first break, you had been holding serve pretty comfortably.   Did you feel your own service level dropped a bit after that?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, a little bit.   I mean, you know, that can sometimes, you know, happen when you're serving very well.   And then, yeah, I didn't really feel like I played a terrible game to get broken.   I went down Love‑40.   
Like I said, I think he hit two in that game, one on the first point and one on the break point, that just dropped over the net.   After that, he obviously relaxed a little bit.   But, yeah, you need to obviously try to take your chances.   
Yesterday I did that; today I wasn't quite able to.   But I almost got back in at the end of the second set.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the atmosphere out there tonight.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it was good.   You know, when you've not played that many matches for a period of time it's good to play in that sort of atmosphere.   You know, obviously a lot of people there.   You know, you get into the match.   It's also very tight on this match as well.   There's not that much distance between them in the court, so it's always a good atmosphere here when it's busy.  
   
 Q.   What's the schedule now?   Home?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I'm flying tonight straight to L.A.  
   
 Q.   Straight to L.A.?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, direct.  
   
 Q.   In terms of your own game, what would be the biggest pluses you take out of this week?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, I did everything pretty good.   I was happy I managed to adjust to the court after a couple matches, because I was struggling at the beginning of the week.   Turned out to be a very good week.   
I mean, the conditions over in Indian Wells, Miami are going to be very, very different to here.   Much slower court, which hopefully will suit my game a little bit better.  
But, yeah, that was probably the most positive thing was that after the first match where I was struggling, I managed to improve as the week went on.   
Good, good preparation for the stretch over in the States.   
   
 Q.   Did Ivan speak to you after yesterday's win?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I speak to him after every match.   
   
 Q.   What was the view?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean, it was a good win obviously, and we worked on some things before coming here.   Just been trying to put them into the matches little by little.   This week was a good start.   
You know, yeah, just try and keep building on that going into the stretch over in the States.   Because it's a very important period for me, this one coming up, because I struggled there the last couple years.   
Good chance for me to get some matches and hopefully play well there, because the surface should suit me over there.   It's just I struggled the last couple years there.   Getting over there early, get some good practice in.  
   
 Q.   When will you link up with Ivan again?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Miami, regardless, was what the schedule is.   I was never going to do the whole schedule with him.   The plan is we did the period after Australia, then he's going to be in Miami.   
Obviously depending on Davis Cup I might stay there after the tournament and practice on the clay a bit there.   I'm not sure yet.  
Then he's going to be in Monte Carlo, Barcelona, and then the week after Barcelona as well I'm going to do some training.   Spend a lot of time together between now and the French Open.  
   
 Q.   When do you expect to make a decision on the Davis Cup?   
ANDY MURRAY:   I know Leon is coming to Miami, so I'll speak to him about it, a little bit about it there.   You know, that's really it.   Obviously the more matches I play the more tired I would be.   I guess it depends how I get on the next few weeks.  
   
 Q.   In terms of the Djokovic win, that was a big win.   Coming into this match, did you feel you were able to put that away and go on the court and think about this one?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it wasn't like I got off to a slow start in the match.   I had the first chances at 3‑2 and didn't take them.   Then, yeah, I mean, it wasn't something where, you know, I woke up today and just wanted to get to L.A. and be happy with what happened yesterday.  
It was a good win yesterday; good win the day before; tough match today.   So I'm just happy with the week, because at this stage last year I was in a very different position, different frame of mind.   I'm positive about the America stretch.   
   
 Q.   Roger talked last month about carrying on until the Olympics.   The way he's played the last three, four months, could you see him doing that and being competitive?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, you never know what's going to happen, you know, with injuries or your body or simply, I guess, with motivation or whatever.   You never know how people are going to feel.   
But, you know, if that's what he wants to do, then that's great.   I think that the indoor season and the surfaces like this one, I mean, if there was more tournaments on these courts, I think he could definitely be No. 1 in the world for the next few years.   It really suits his game well.   Just so many of the courts are so slow now.   
You know, it's nice for us to get a change‑up like here.   Some of the tournaments are so slow it's tough against so many guys that are moving well and serving big.   
You know, it's become tougher and tougher to stay at the top of the game longer I think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT