DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
March 1, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/T. Berdych
  6‑3, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Bit of controversy at the end.   What was your take on it all?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, it was a bad rule, for a start.   That one is one that, I mean, I have a big problem with.   I don't like it for reasons like that.   One point in the match I felt like I hit a forehand on the back edge of the line and he hit a forehand into the stadium off the shot.   There is no chance the call affected the stroke that he played that split second.  
On the return, I think the call was made in the correct time.   He got his racquet on the ball, missed it.   But, you know, I think the call was an early call, so normally you replay the point there.   
It's a bad rule, because it comes down to kind of how the umpire sees it.   You know, they don't always see it the same way as the players do.   I think you've just got to‑‑ sometimes it goes your way; sometimes it doesn't.   
But it's not a good rule.  
   
 Q.   So you wouldn't have complained if you had to replay the point?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I would have been annoyed, yeah.   That's the thing.   For me it was a great serve and he missed the return.   But he got his racquet on it, so I don't know what the rule is.   I don't know how you interpret it.   If you got your racquet on the ball or if it's a late call, I think it just comes down to how the umpire sees it.   
I would have said it was a great serve right on the back edge of the line and he missed the return.   Most of the time they replay the point there, just like they did when I hit a forehand on the back of the line.   It was the same thing.  
   
 Q.   Tomas says that his understanding is unless it's an ace, the point should always be replayed.   
ANDY MURRAY:   I think it should be, because then it takes any controversy out of it if you touch the ball.   But sometimes guys stretch their racquet out.   And especially if it's on a T serve, you know, a big first serve, you know, often the ball hits the end of the frame and might even go behind you?   Should you replay the point then?   I mean, I don't know.   
I think if you get the ball to go forwards, I think you should replay the point.   
   
 Q.   Seemed to be going pretty smoothly and then you were holding your knee a bit in the second set.   Was that a problem?   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I've had a problem with it since Brisbane actually, and it's sort of come and gone.   It was a bit sore right before the tournament.   I didn't feel it at all in the first couple of matches, and then right at the beginning of the second set I felt it.   
It's not something that stops me sort of running around.   It's just annoying because it's sort of been there for a while.   I want to try and get rid of it, because there are a lot of the big events coming up.   Need to make sure I do all the right exercises, the right rehab and stuff to get it better.   Because it's not major issue, it's just I need to get rid of it.   
   
 Q.   Is it the usual split patella thing?  
ANDY MURRAY:   No, no.   It's the same knee as that, but the patella thing, I mean, I've had that now for my whole career.   It's something a little bit different that I've had for a while.   
Yeah, just try and get it better.   You play so much tennis and train so hard that it's tough to take enough time off sometimes to get things, little niggles, better.  
   
 Q.   Second set frustrating for you?   You broke twice, you came back, and then there were all those match points.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, it wasn't frustrating in the end because you just have to get win.   Often I think‑‑ I mean, in my whole career on the tour, I don't know how many matches I've played, I think I've only lost one match where I served for it, two max.   One of them was against Djokovic in Rome last year.  
That's one thing I've always been very comfortable with, closing matches out.   You know, but I played three great serves to bring it to 40‑Love and then missed a few first serves in a row and he went for some big shots.   
Then once you're back at deuce you're thinking, God, I've just blown three match points.   So you kind of just want to try get through it if you can.   I went too defensive.   I went too far behind the baseline and was letting him dictate points.  
Just got to get through those moments and be tough, and I was.  
   
 Q.   How would you sum up the match itself?  
ANDY MURRAY:   I thought tactically I did well, I mean, for a set and a half.   I created a lot of chances in the second set, but kind of gave them back to him.  
I mean, he obviously played some good stuff as well.   It's not always just down to ‑‑ you can go up a break and get broken back when you're playing against a guy that's sort of 6, 7 in the world.   That happens.   
But tactically I was doing the right things, and then maybe got away from that a little bit.   But I just hung in at the end.   I fought and scrambled and did what I had to do to win.  
   
 Q.   Is it particularly pleasing to beat someone you've lost to the last three times?   
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, the match in Paris last year was a very close match; could have gone either way.   
The match at the French Open was a disappointing one.   
I can't remember the time before that where it was I played him.  
   
 Q.   About five years ago.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, so that's a long time.   We actually haven't played each other too much.   Yeah, it's good to get a win against the top 10 players.  
You know, year and a half ago he was in the Wimbledon final.   He's an excellent player.   He's been in the semis of the French, finals of Wimbledon, and at least the quarters of the other two.   He's a top player.  
   
 Q.   People would be happy pretty happy tomorrow if it's you against Novak after the way that match went in Melbourne.   
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   I mean, be surprised if it went the same way tomorrow, to be honest.   It should be obviously a great challenge.   Any time you play against the top players, that's the case.   
I would like to get a chance to play him again.   You know, before the Indian Wells/Miami stretch it would be good to see exactly what I need to work on, where my game is.   
Yeah, I had a great match with him in Australia, and hopefully can reverse the result tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   To beat him after Australia tomorrow, if that was the case, what would it mean?   Same question I asked you I think the first day you came here.  
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I mean‑‑ yeah, it's a tough one, because I know if I said, you know, It's so important, it would be like, Well, you know, the matches in the slams are the ones that are the most important ones.  
But any time you get a win against the No. 1 player in the world it's important, because you don't get a chance to play them that often.   It will be nice when you finish playing to look back and see the list of the guys you've played against and had the chance to win against as well.   
So that's important every time you play a world No. 1, of course.  
   
 Q.   You played three matches in a row at 2:00 in the afternoon, bright sunshine, and the matches at the sharp end of the tournament have played in the evening under the lights.   Would you have preferred to have had a night match by now?  
ANDY MURRAY:   To be honest, I'm pretty used to playing during the day.   I've played‑‑ I can't really remember, apart from when I've had to.   You know, when like the slam semis are in the night.   
I always play pretty much during the day in all the big events.   Very rarely play night matches nowadays.   I play a lot in the middle of the day, so I got used to it.  
Yeah, conditions change here significantly.   When the sun goes down, it gets much cooler and the balls are a lot slower.   So would have helped to have played in the evening, but you just got to do what you can.   
I mean, the slower conditions should be easier to get used to rather than the quicker ones.  
   
 Q.   That said, can I ask you a bit of a silly question?  
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What factor sunblock do you use?   Because if you spend all that amount of time out in the sun, you still look as if you've had a fortnight up on the north coast of Scotland.   
ANDY MURRAY:   (Smiling.)   I put on factor 30.   Yeah, I put it on‑‑ the key is to put it on 20, 30 minutes before you go out there.   
If you put it on right beforehand, it takes ‑‑ supposedly takes a little while for it to sink in.   But, yeah, I sometimes I get burnt on my nose because I wipe ‑‑ like after points I always wipe my nose or the sweat off my face.   
But now that I'm wearing a hat in the heat, that's been all right.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT