DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS MEN
February 28, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/M. Berrer
  6‑3, 4‑6, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Besides feeling ill as you said, did you have any physical problems other than that?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I felt all right.   Just at the start of the match I didn't feel great.   It was one of those strange sets.   But, yeah, just didn't feel that great. 
Towards the end of the second and third set I better but was playing as well.   It was quite a frustrating match because I was up a break twice in the second set, and each time I think gave it straight back.   And then the third set again I went up a break and gave the break straight back. 
So I could have made it a little bit easier for myself if I played a bit better.

Q.   Were you feeling a little unwell before the match started?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I've been feeling average.   Actually, most of the years I've come here I've never felt that well.   I don't know why, but that's just been the case. 
Hopefully I'll feel a bit better tomorrow.

Q.   Is it a food poisoning type thing?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, no, it was that.   I got food poisoning.   Last time I got sick here it was food poisoning.   I was in really bad way for about ten days after the tournament. 
You know, just didn't feel that well.   But normally, I mean, in terms of that tiredness and stuff, like after long points, that often can happen when you've not played a match for a while. 
But I've worked really, really hard over in Miami, so I'm sure with the matches I'll start to feel better.

Q.   Did the heat have anything to do with it?
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, I've been training in hotter weather than that, so I wouldn't have thought so.

Q.   Is it flu‑like condition, or what was...
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I don't know.   Felt like I wanted to vomit, but it was food.   I don't know if I had drunk too much or overhydrated or whatever.
Yeah, I mean, I don't feel like really, really bad.   I was just getting that feeling after long points.   Like after I was getting up from the changeover I sort of cut down and was drinking that much at the changeovers in the second and third sets and I felt much better.

Q.   What were the conditions like out there? 
ANDY MURRAY:   I think it's the quickest court I probably play on in the year.   And because obviously we're in the desert, you know, it flies.   The ball moves through the air really quickly.   The ball gets smaller as it gets older; whereas normally like over in Australia the ball gets heavier.   This one gets lighter and goes quicker, so it's almost easier to control with new balls.
So that makes it a little bit tougher as well. 

Q.   Did you see the Chiudinelli match?   Given your condition today, how do you approach that?
ANDY MURRAY:   Just do all the right things this evening.   Try and eat well and get a lot of sleep.   I'm sure tomorrow I'll feel better than I did today.

Q.   3‑4 down in the final set you did what was required.   Is that a consolation for you?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I did.   I mean, I got the win.   That's the most important thing. 
Like I said, I would have liked to have made it a little bit easier for myself by playing slightly‑‑ well, my game being a little bit tighter, more match tight, and not giving breaks straight back when I got ahead.
That's something I'll need to do better as the tournament goes on.

Q.   How much have you seen of Chiudinelli?   I don't think you've ever played him. 
ANDY MURRAY:   I've never played him.   He's been around quite a long time.   I've seen him play quite a few times.   Last time was in Basel end of last year. 
Yeah, he's quite a flat striker of the ball.   He's pretty quick.   He's obviously going to have a lot of experience as well on his side.   He probably understands his game very well at this stage.
He had a very good win today and a couple good wins in quallies, so he's playing well.

Q.   How does to work when Ivan is off site?   Will he watch it, and will you talk to him in the States or will you just get on with it?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I'll speak to him down here.   Danny I'm sure will speak to him as well.   I don't know.   I mean, with the time change it's not always going to be that easy to watch the matches. 
That's why it's important that whoever is with you has a good idea of how the match has gone and the things you've done well and haven't done well and can report that back.
I'll speak to Ivan as well.   Let him know that there are things I was concerned about, things I want to improve on.   I mean, you can't look at the first match in four weeks and, you know, overanalyze it.   You've just got to take it for what it is. 
There was some good stuff in there; there was some not so good stuff.   I'll need to get better.

Q.   Was it your mistakes or were there things that Berrer was doing real well? 
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I mean, he played well, too.   I practiced with him before the tournament, the day before the qualifying started, and he was playing well. 
We signed in for the doubles together but we didn't get in.   I know him pretty well.   I practiced with him a few times.   He's a good, good player.
I think he's better than maybe he thinks he is.   A lot times when I've spoken to him in practice he's sort of like, I don't know, he'll apologize for something. 
He's a very, very good player.   He's been in the top 50 in the world, and he likes the quick conditions as well.

Q.   He said he was too nice after that match. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Well, yeah.   You know, he is.   He's one of the nicest guys on the tour.   Yeah, you need sometimes more of a ruthless streak.   You know, that's just how he is. 

Q.   Do you think you've got that ruthless streak?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I would say so.   That's never been a problem.   (Smiling.)

Q.   You said you had signed up or tried to get in doubles with him.   Was there no thought of playing with Jamie here?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, because he's got his regular partner and I was planning on playing.   It was just when I got here and hit the first couple times I found the conditions incredibly fast, and wanted to try and get a match in before I played my singles. 
I practiced with Berrer on Friday and asked him on the Saturday morning if he wanted to sign in.   Unfortunately we were one out, so we didn't quite make it.
But, yeah, that was why, because I knew the conditions were going to be tricky and quick, very different to what the conditions in Miami where I was training were like. 
That probably was why I made a few more mistakes than normal today.

Q.   You seemed to have helped Ivan's as form as well. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, he did well.   It's Tuesday today, so I think he plays Moya tomorrow.   Not sure how that one's going to go.   I don't have high hopes for him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT