AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2012
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/R. Harrison
  4‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Andy, please. 

Q.   Perhaps a little bit like Brisbane, a nervousy start, but once you got going, you were fine and comfortable? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   I mean, it was obviously a different tournament to Brisbane.   I mean, some weeks you feel very comfortable in the conditions straightaway; sometimes it takes a few matches. 
It's very different conditions what we've been practicing in.   The court plays different.   I mean, it was incredibly hot today.   Balls bouncing up very high, whereas it's been cool, and this court particularly reacts a lot with the temperature.   It took me a little while to adjust to that. 
Also, I've never played or hit against him before, so it always takes a bit of time to get used to the guy you're playing.   But once I did, I started to play better. 

Q.   What did you think of his game?
ANDY MURRAY:   I thought he was good.   He serves well.   He's quick.   He does everything pretty solid.   There wasn't one thing in particular that was incredible, but there wasn't too many holes in his game, which, you know, if you want to be a good player, you can't have any.

Q.   In conditions like this, is this when the pain of Florida pays off? 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it helps.   But, again, today, you know, obviously training in hot temperatures helps because you're used to it, but also for the last couple of weeks it's been very different. 
You know, today was a bit of a shock to the system.   It was good to get used to playing in that heat again because might have to a bit further down the line. 

Q.   Have you had any sort of debrief from Ivan yet about what he thought about the victory, aspects of it?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, he was very happy. 

Q.   You stepped up close to the baseline the second, third, and fourth sets. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I played better, but he understands how you might be feeling at the start of a Grand Slam, what it's like to play against someone that you haven't played against, what it's like playing in different conditions, how you feel in really warm conditions. 
It's just good to have someone there that, you know, understands all of those things.   Someone maybe without the experience might walk in and be like, What the hell were you doing in the first set?   What were you playing the first six or seven games?
You know, he understands the feelings that you go through.   Once I started moving better, I played better.   Last few sets were good. 

Q.   The hamstring?
ANDY MURRAY:   It's fine. 

Q.   Does it feel a little bit different out there on Hisense?   Do you feel as though you're almost slightly removed from everything else?
ANDY MURRAY:   I mean, it's a nice court to play on because there's not much wind.   I mean, on the outside courts it's been so windy, and on Laver it's normally, from the far side, when you walk onto the court, a pretty stiff breeze you're playing into. 
But on Hisense, yeah, you don't really get that.   It's a pretty calm court.   Yeah, I mean, any of the courts would have felt different today purely because of the conditions.

Q.   At one point you didn't seem very happy with your shoes.   Was it too much grip, not enough grip?
ANDY MURRAY:   It's just different.   The court is incredibly sticky when it's that warm.   My foot got caught on the court a couple of times.   But I've had that a few times on that court especially when it's been really warm. 

Q.   So they're not new ones or different ones you're using?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, no. 

Q.   Usually at Wimbledon we're asking you about what it's like to be the last Brit.   Second day everyone's gone, so is that more so a disappointment?
ANDY MURRAY:   I'm not the person to be disappointed about that.   There are other people in charge that should be disappointed about it; not me.   I mean, I'd rather there was more Brits winning, obviously, but it's not for me to be disappointed. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT