BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 21, 2011
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. FERRER/A. MurraY
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Andy, please. 

Q.   How did you feel on court overall?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, disappointing.   Didn't feel great.   I still had a few chances, especially in the second set.   I think I was a break up in both sets, so, yeah, disappointing.

Q.   Tell us about your physical condition.   Obviously you had that break for the trainer to come on at the end of the first set. 
ANDY MURRAY:   In terms of? 

Q.   How is your body?   Obviously struggling towards the end of the first set when you had the massage. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, I had a problem with my groin.   I have to see how it goes for tomorrow. 

Q.   How much of a factor was that in your movement overall? 
ANDY MURRAY:   It certainly doesn't help.   But, yeah, I didn't move particularly great today. 
But, yeah, still had opportunities. 

Q.   Is it the sort of problem which could put your future in this tournament at risk?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   I'll decide tomorrow whether or not I keep playing. 

Q.   What will the key consideration be?   Just not doing any important further damage to it?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah.   I mean, you've got to sometimes do the right thing.   I don't know exactly how it was going to feel on the court today.   I haven't been able to do too much training this week. 
I played, didn't feel particularly great.   You know, see if I feel any better tomorrow. 

Q.   So is this an injury you've been carrying or something you picked up during the match?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, I've been carrying it.

Q.   Was that from Paris?
ANDY MURRAY:   No, a few days after Paris. 

Q.   In any case, if you can play, this is still round robin, you are obliged to beat Djokovic and Berdych.   Two years ago even the games were important. 
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, in the round robin format, that's the advantage:   you can lose and still come through.   You know, the last two years I won two matches in the group and one year I went through and one year I didn't.   I think even sometimes you can go through only winning one match. 
So there's still a chance. 

Q.   This groin problem, you say it happened a few days after Paris, was it something traumatic in Paris or a gradual onset?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it was something that happened in training, yeah. 

Q.   Stretching for a ball, just suddenly felt it go kind of thing?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I just felt it.   Never really had many strains.   It's more being sort of like bony, jointy things that I've had, especially playing on hard courts.   Yeah, it was the first time I'd really felt anything go really. 

Q.   You did seem quite flat, your body language and everything out there today.   Is this because you weren't sure you were going to complete the match or because you felt this was going to be a handicap?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   I mean, I felt flat, in the second set especially.   And, yeah, I don't know, whatever, however I was feeling contributed towards that. 
Yeah, I don't really know what else to say.   I was definitely in the second set a bit flat. 

Q.   Do you have any idea whether you think you're going to continue?   You wake up in the morning and make a decision?   When do you have to say whether you're going to continue?
ANDY MURRAY:   I can decide until one minute before the match on Wednesday, you know, if I want to.   So, yeah, I'll see how I feel tonight and tomorrow and decide. 

Q.   How did you assess David Ferrer's performance today?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, he's just very, very solid.   He gives you very few points.   Normally when I played against him, I've served pretty well, and you can get some free points on your serve if you serve well. 
But he returned well today, didn't make hardly any mistakes on the return, so he was always putting pressure on my service game.   And, yeah, that was the main difference. 
I still had chances to break him, but on my serve I didn't do a great job, and he made very few mistakes on the return. 
But I think, I mean, both of us, I saw at one point in the match, I think both of us made a lot of unforced errors today, a surprising amount for both our game styles. 

Q.   What sort of percentage chance would you put on your playing?
ANDY MURRAY:   I don't know.   I'll just see tomorrow how I feel.   I don't know.   I don't know what will happen.   I don't know a percentage. 

Q.   From talking to your team, is it actually treatable this thing?   Can they do stuff to improve it or is it just going to have to be managed?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, I mean, there's stuff you do   anytime you have injuries to try to help it, ice it, wearing compression shorts, you know, massage, do an ice bath tonight.   You know, you can get like acupuncture, needles, and sometimes those things can help and make it feel better. 

Q.   If it hadn't been on home soil, this tournament, would you have even started?
ANDY MURRAY:   No.   If this tournament had been whenever, it would have been I would have definitely tried to play.   Just like in all the Grand Slams, I would always try and give it a go, for sure.   But if it wasn't slams or this event, I wouldn't have played. 

Q.   How disappointing would it be if this was the end of your season, to end it in this way?
ANDY MURRAY:   Yeah, it would be gutting, yeah, really gutting. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT