SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2011
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/S. Wawrinka
  6-4, 3-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Andy, please. 

 Q. It was a tough match. You knew it was going to be a tough match. What did you have to do to win it?
 ANDY MURRAY: Uhm, I mean, I got myself pumped up right at the beginning of the third set. I think it was important. Stan was playing very well. I was trying to control the ball. Especially middle of the second set, I was really struggling. Really had to make sure I got my feet moving. 
 I started dictating a lot of the points with my forehand and trying to get the first strike in 'cause the court is playing very fast. That worked well. 
 I served well for most of the match. It was just my timing was a bit off on some of my shots. Made a few mistakes in the second set. 
 But, I mean, the first set I was up 3-0, two breaks, pretty quickly, and I went up 5-0 in the third set. Both sets got a little bit closer than maybe they needed to be. 
 I thought for the first match, very different conditions, it was a good win because Stan played very well in the second and third sets. 

 Q. What do you know about your next opponent? Not too many of us know much about him. 
 ANDY MURRAY: I know quite a lot about him. He had a good start to the year. I think it was Brisbane or Sydney I watched him play a couple of good matches, a couple of good matches there. He qualified last week in Tokyo. I watched his match with Ferrer. Actually played a pretty good match. I think he hurt himself a little bit in the second set. 
 But I've seen him play a couple of times. He's got a nice game. You know, he's quite effortless. He's talented. It will be a tough match. He's obviously just coming off the best win of his career, so he'll be confident. 

 Q. Stan smashed his racquet twice. Do you have this kind of moment where you want to do a similar thing in your career?
 ANDY MURRAY: I have broken racquets in the past, but I never, like, have done it quite like he did it today. It was a pretty big one. But sometimes it's better to do it than rather just sort of dropping your racquet two or three times a little bit. Sometimes it's better to let like one big burst of emotion out or aggression than kind of letting it linger on. 
 No, I haven't broken a racquet like that on the tour before. 

 Q. How are you doing energy-wise? A long trip for you; lots of matches. 
 ANDY MURRAY: I feel fine. My legs and stuff were a wee bit tired at the end of the match. But I got like no stiffness at all in my body. My arm's been a bit sore the last few days. But it felt better today than it did a couple of days ago. 
 I mean, when I wake up in the morning, I'm tired when I wake up, but I'm feeling fine once I get going and get food down me and moving around, so that's good. 

 Q. You played three different Asian tournaments in three different countries. Can you talk about why you played in Tokyo instead of Beijing? Will you play in Tokyo again next year because you have to defend the title?
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't have to defend the title. But the way I played in Beijing the two times I've been there would suggest it's not my best place to play. So I decided to go to Tokyo. I really like the conditions there. 
 You know, that's basically what you judge when you're deciding on your schedule, you try and pick the tournaments that suit you the best. And obviously I played well in Tokyo, so there's a good chance I'll go back there next year. 

 Q. One of the things that I certainly didn't know about your next opponent until I was told a few minutes ago is that he often fills in his time by writing poetry. Have you ever felt the need to exercise your muse? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I read poems sometimes. But I definitely haven't written any lately (smiling). 

 Q. Which poets are big on your list then?
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, it was actually last week I was reading a bit of Kipling, because they obviously have it just before you go out on the court at Wimbledon. When I read stuff, I find that, I don't know, I don't relate to it as much. But when I hear someone else saying it... I would rather watch a movie than read a book. So I was trying to watch some things on YouTube of a few poems. 

 Q. Very impressive. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Thank you. 

 Q. Dragging you down from the lofty heights of Kipling to balls. 
 ANDY MURRAY: I like talking about balls (smiling). 

 Q. Given what you were saying yesterday, how did you find it tonight, particularly under the roof?
 ANDY MURRAY: The conditions? 

 Q. The balls. 
 ANDY MURRAY: The balls. They're fast. They're really fast. Yeah, I mean, if you're not quite in the right position and you're timing's a wee bit off, it's tough to control the ball. 
 I felt like I served really well with them. I was getting probably an extra five, ten kilometers an hour on my first serve. But from the back of the court, you really need to get yourself in good position, one, because the ball is fast and if your timing is off the ball will fly on you. Also because it's a quick court too, you can catch the ball late if you're not in the right position. 
 It's a combination of the balls and the surface, which is definitely faster than it was last year. Last year it felt much, much slower. 

 Q. I heard you singing before the press conference. What about singing?
 ANDY MURRAY: You heard that? I didn't realize you could hear that. What did you think? How was it? Was it good, the singing? 

 Q. Maybe you can sing louder. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Not now, but maybe another time I'll do that. 

 Q. What kind of music do you like?
 ANDY MURRAY: Honestly, literally everything. There's not one type of music I don't really listen to. I listen to everything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT