WIMBLEDON
June 24, 2011
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/I. Ljubicic
  6-4, 4-6, 6-1, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How you feeling?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I feel good, yeah. Feel good.   
  
  Q. Tougher than you expected?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, not at all. I thought it was an excellent match. I thought both of us played very well. I thought it was very high standard. Played one bad game, well, the first game of the second set was a bad game. Apart from that, I thought it was a very high standard.   
 Both of us played well. A lot of good rallies. I felt like I hit the ball from the back of the court way better than the last match. I thought Ljubicic played very well, too.   
  
  Q. Did you slightly turn off at the start of the second set?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, no. I played a bad game. That happens sometimes. You do play bad games. I was disappointed with that game. Both of us were struggling a bit behind our second serves. Very heavy conditions.   
 I think, you know, I probably won about 40, 45% of my second-serve points, and he won 35 to 40%. We were both -- just the ball was sitting up nicely on the second serve for both of us. He was going for huge returns. That was obviously his game plan, and he returned well off the second serve.   
 But, uhm, yeah, I didn't serve particularly well the beginning of the second set.  
  
  Q. You said you'd give us a hot-dog shot here at Wimbledon when you were at Queen's and you did.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I did. You know, doesn't happen that often when you get yourself in that sort of position. I went for it and made it. I'm sure at some point I'm going to miss one and look silly.  
  
  Q. Got a name for it?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, no. I've never really seen anyone do it before. So I don't know. Don't know what it's called. I'd never done it either in any matches or anything until Queen's.  
  
  Q. Was this better than the last one?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Different. They're different, because this time Ljubicic was sort of at the net. I don't know. I don't know. They were both good.   
 But I don't know which one was better, because the shot tonight, his ball was coming -- it was maybe an easier height to do it off; whereas Tsonga's one was coming a bit higher and I got a better angle on it. They were both good.  
  
  Q. You felt you didn't have any option but to play that shot?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, it's like when someone goes for a through-the-leg shot. You always can try to do other things. You just kind of do what's most comfortable or what you feel. It's like sometimes you're taught how to move a certain way, but when you actually get on the court, you tend to move whatever is the most efficient way.   
 Like, you know, some guys feel like going for the through-the-leg shot is the easiest shot for them at that time. I very rarely try a through-the-leg shot the other way. I always try to put up a lob.   
 But, yeah, for that shot, if the ball is sort of coming towards you and you've got a chance to do it, yeah, I just went for it. I mean, I'm sure I could have played a different shot.  
  
  Q. Laura and Elena lost today. You're the last Brit sort of standing yet again. I guess you're used to that?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. Yeah, I'm used to it. It's been like that the last few years.   
  
  Q. Did you see any of Laura's match today?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I actually saw a little bit of the end of the first set. I was warming up for my match when she started. But I heard she played well.   
  
  Q. Very encouraging to push somebody like Sharapova on a big court like that.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's good. That's a good sign that she's able to do it. But, you know, to get to that level, you need to do it at the challengers and at the smaller events and get your ranking up that way. So that's what the challenge is for her and for James Ward, you know, to get up and play in these tournaments all the time.   
 You know, they can play at this level clearly, by Laura's result today and the way she played, the way James played at Queen's. You know, they need to sort of carry on and maintain that level when they're playing when there's no one watching when you're playing the futures and the challengers. That's the best way to get up in the rankings.  
  
  Q. Does it feel slightly strange that three matches in you haven't actually played on Centre Court with the roof open?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it is different. The conditions are, you know, obviously different. That's why the next couple days' practice will be more to make sure I get some hitting outdoors. The serving and stuff is very different when you're sort of under a roof.   
 So, yeah, I need to make sure the next couple days' practice I get enough time on the court, and I'll play some points probably on Sunday.   
  
  Q. How big a bonus is that, to have two days before you play on Monday? You're the only one of the top four already through to the second week. Rafa has to come back again tomorrow.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, I don't know. I don't know how much of an advantage it is. Most of the time on the grass, the matches aren't too physical, you know. So one day off is normally good.   
 But have to wait and see if it's an advantage or not. But, uhm, you know, the next couple days, like I say, it's important to keep the intensity up, make sure you keep focused, do all the right things the next couple of days, because we're used to sort of getting into our routines of playing one day, day off the next. Obviously now I've got a couple days. I need to make sure I do the right things.  
  
  Q. Gasquet, how do you see that?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Tough match. He's won all his matches pretty comfortably so far. He plays very well on grass. He's comfortable on the surface. It's going to be tough.   
  
  Q. Where does that match you played against him three years ago rank in your sort of great matches?  
 ANDY MURRAY: It was up there in terms of just for the way I came back and I was pretty much, yeah, out of the match. I think he served for the match at 5-4 in the third set, up two sets to nothing.   
 Same thing at the French Open actually a couple years ago. It's good to have in the back of my mind when I go in against him in a match like this. Even if I go behind, I can come back against him.   
 You know, that will be, I think for him, a tough thing. It's happened twice in big matches against me. So, uhm, I expect it to be a very difficult match. But the one that I played with him here was one of the most memorable for me. It was a long time ago now, though.  
  
  Q. (Question regarding the relationship with the crowd.)   
 ANDY MURRAY: It was the first match where I really, yeah, had to come back from a big deficit. There are matches that I think the crowd and, you know, people tend to remember here. There's been a lot of them obviously over the years.   
 Tim played a lot of long sort of five-set matches. That was really the first one when I was sort of coming through and playing on Centre Court, getting the chance to sort of get comfortable on that court.   
 That was probably the first one that really was, yeah, a big comeback from me. I think there was a lot of sort of interaction with the crowd. They really got behind me. It makes a big difference.   
  
  Q. Is Gasquet somebody that you maybe would have expected to have done better at the slams?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I mean, for me, knowing how difficult it is, you don't expect anyone to do anything. You know, guys like him, he's obviously very, very talented. He's an excellent player.   
 On his day, he can play great tennis. But the consistency is something that's been difficult for a lot of players. I've had problems with it the last couple of years at certain tournaments, certain periods of the year.   
 You can't really take anything for granted just because he has really nice strokes and he's very talented. You've got to have more than that to get the whole way deep into Grand Slams on a regular basis. It's a very tough thing to do.   
  
  Q. But clearly somebody who has got the talent to go all the way?  
 ANDY MURRAY: He's a very talented player, yeah. I played him many times. I grew up playing with him. He was always one of the best juniors growing up. He's been in the top 10 in the world before. He's beaten Federer a few months ago in Rome. He's given guys a lot of problems in the past.   
 Like I said, two times I played him in slams, I was down two sets and a break both times. He's a tough guy.   
  
  Q. How pleased were you today with the way you reacted to the difficulties that the match presented?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I think I did a good job of keeping my energy high for most of the match. Third set was very good. Went away and had a toilet break between sets, thought about what I was going to do.   
 Got up early in the third set. Played a very good third set. Obviously when I served for the match and didn't get it, you know, I think I did well in the tiebreak to stay focused and come through the fourth set. Because it's always tough when you serve for matches, and then to finish the match off after that is difficult, so I think I did well.  
  
  Q. If you get through on Monday and López keeps winning, I'm curious who you think your mum might be supporting if you meet Deliciano?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I think it's about time she stopped with that nonsense. Makes me want to throw up. It's disgusting. Yeah, it's disgusting.   
 I was practicing with him before the tournament. It's quite funny because she'd been writing about it on, you know, Twitter like all the time. And I was practicing with him before the tournament and my mom was on the side.   
 I said, when we were warming up, I shouted across the net, I said, Feli, if we sit down for a drink, if you could take a picture with my mom, because she thinks you're beautiful.   
 She went bright red. I'm not doing it. I'm not doing it. Refused to take the picture. Quite funny. Not like her.   
 Yeah, I hope she'll still be supporting me.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT