WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2011
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/T. Kamke
  6-3, 6-3, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, Andy Murray. Who would like to ask the first question.   
  
  Q. The expectations here are massive for you to win. You said you don't let that pressure you in any way. Do you have any way of blocking it out, by not reading newspapers or just focusing on other things?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, just try and do normal things, don't get caught up in, you know, watching too much of the TV or reading too much of what's going on the in press.   
 But you also have to go about your days as you would normally. If you start doing different things, it might throw you off. So I do most of the same things I always do. It's not like if there's a newspaper there, I don't try and -- you know, it's not like I won't read it. I'll have a flick through. I don't actively go out and put the TV on just to listen to myself or listen to people talking about me, so...   
 But if it's on, I'll watch.   
  
  Q. How do you think you played?   
 ANDY MURRAY: I didn't think I played that well, but I didn't get broken. I served well, especially when I was behind in games. It was quite windy on the court which made it tricky, and I thought he hit the ball very well from the back of the court. Could have returned a little bit better.   
 But straight sets, so I've got to be pleased with that. But got to improve for the next match.   
  
  Q. Is there a slight contradiction on your serve at the moment, in that you said you served well, but you're serving at 54%? Is it that your second serve is better or the position of the ball is better?  
 ANDY MURRAY: 54% isn't relevant if you're winning 90% of the first serve points. If I wanted to, I could serve 90% of the first serves if I just rolled them in, but you wouldn't win as high a percentage. You have to use it as a weapon. Today, like I said, because it was quite windy, it was difficult.   
 But if you look at the percentage of serves when I was breakpoint down or behind in games, I definitely upped that. I focused a bit more on it and put in a higher percentage. In the first round I served well, up into the high 60%, I think. That's good.   
 Conditions were different today, and I felt like I served very well. If you don't get broken, you can't be disappointed with the way you served. It was more the rest of my game that needs work.   
  
  Q. Do you wonder when you're in a match like that about how much energy you're expending? As you look to the tournament as a whole, obviously you don't hold back on what you put into it, but do you try and save some energy through the match?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. Well, you want to try and win the match as comfortably as you can. When you get ahead, obviously I got up a couple of sets. It was a tight third set, so it was nice to win that third set because obviously you get off a little bit earlier, you get a bit longer to recover.   
 You never know what might happen with the guys you play against. They might have to play an extra day or they finish later, so it's all just a nice little extra if you can get off the court as quickly as possible.   
 But when you're out there, you're not worrying about that. You're just trying to get the job done and win.   
  
  Q. A bit was made about you playing on Court 1. Does it bother you?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No, it doesn't bother me. I think all of the players would rather be on Centre because of the roof because you know you're going to get on, but the court's still the same. You know, it's a little bit different in terms of, like, how it looks, because now with the roof it feels very enclosed; whereas Court 1 seems quite open, like Centre Court used to. So that's slightly different.   
 But I don't mind playing on any court, Centre, Court 1, Court 6, I don't care. I just want to try and win.  
  
  Q. One of the commentators was saying that you were drug tested at 7:00 a.m. last week. Is that true?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah.  
  
  Q. 7:00 a.m. in the morning they came to your house?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah.  
  
  Q. What did you think about that?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I give one in the hour in the day when they can come to test me. Every single day of the year, you give one hour, and I choose 7:00 in the morning because I know I'm going to be in bed and I know I'm not going to miss. If you miss three tests, that counts as a fail.   
 So at 2:00 I have no idea of where I'm going to be, and when I wake up in the morning, the last thing I think about is where I need to be for a drug test or be on time for a drug test. If you put 7:00 or 8:00 at night, you might go out, do something, go out for dinner.   
 All of the players that I know put first thing in the morning so they're going to be in bed. Also if you put 10:00 at night when you know you're going to be at home, you know, you're not thinking about it, so if you go to the toilet after dinner or just beforehand, you end up having to wait for an hour to go once they arrive.   
 So it's best just to do it first thing in the morning, because I normally need the toilet then as well (smiling).   
  
  Q. Would you be happy to see Scottish players in this British Olympic team, the football team, that's been talked about?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't want to get into any of that political stuff. I've been involved in the Olympics, played under Great Britain, and it was an unbelievable experience. I loved it. It's not for me to decide. It's up to the Federations, that they can decide.   
 Certainly not getting drawn into any political stuff around this time of year, because we know what happens with that (smiling).   
  
  Q. Are there any other benefits to playing at home, apart from the support from the crowd?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, loads. You get to go home in the evening, sleep in my own bed, be around my friends and family, which isn't normal. Yeah, that's it. That and obviously home support always helps.   
  
  Q. You said you watched Scream last night to relax. Do you normally watch horror films to relax?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I wasn't watching it to relax. You normally pick the one thing that will stop you thinking about tennis. Scream did a pretty good job of that.  
  
  Q. As you progress in the competition, do you find the pressure increasing?  
 ANDY MURRAY: It's a bit different. The pressure is nicer in some ways once you manage to get through a round or two. Now, you know, you're not necessarily expected to win the matches easily or whatever. The matches are going to get very tough.   
 I play Ljubicic now. You know, I've lost to him a few times. A tough player. So I expect that to be a difficult match. Hopefully raise my game for that one.  
  
  Q. Is it quite nice you're not the only Brit left in Wimbledon? Different to last year. How pleased are you for Laura and Elena?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's good. Any time any British players win, it's a good thing. It doesn't change my mentality or the way I go into my matches. You know, if I'm looking at it in terms of British tennis, it's great. I think that's Laura's first win at Wimbledon.   
 She struggled a little bit this year with some injuries, so that will be a big win for her, a good confidence boost.   
 Elena's, you know, done well the last few years. She's established herself in the top 100, and she deserves to be here. So it's good.   
  
  Q. Have you picked a film to relax to before your next match?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, not yet. I'll see whatever is on Sky Movies. I mean, the movies on Sky aren't great, I don't think. There's about 20 movie channels, and you're normally struggling to find a good one. Wait and see tomorrow what they've got.   
 Actually, I did hear yesterday at the end of Scream they have Scream II on tonight and Scream III on on Thursday. Maybe I'll watch one of them.  
  
  Q. Do you think Wimbledon should keep the big television screen on Murray Mount when it rains?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think they should keep it on if they can. I heard it was something to do with health and safety. That's the most important thing.   
 If they can get it on, I'm sure everyone would rather they had it.   
  
  Q. What makes Ljubicic so dangerous, so difficult to play?  
 ANDY MURRAY: He serves well. That always makes it difficult. His best results are on grass, which is surprising for someone that serves like him. Yeah, so that obviously makes it tricky.   
 Obviously, when you play against Roddick, sometimes you feel like once you get into rallies you know you can control him and dictate. But, you know, they can take some chances on your serve if they're holding comfortably. That can put a bit of pressure on you.   
 So I have to make sure I return well, which I did very well at Queen's. I'll need to do the same thing again on Friday.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT