WIMBLEDON
June 20, 2011
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/D. Gimeno-Traver
  4-6, 6-3, 6-0, 6-0

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. Were you confident the storm would blow out with those forehands, because he came at you straight from the first gun, didn't he?
 ANDY MURRAY: Sorry, I'll just finish this bite of my apple. Well, I changed things. I changed the way I was playing. I changed the way I was returning, especially. 
 You know, the court was -- you know, I think normally at the start of the tournament it's quite slow, you know, and I was playing, just playing a lot of long rallies with him. 
 I was playing very aggressive on his first serve, off his first serve; and on his second serve I was really tentative. So I was missing returns off the first serve, and, you know, really just giving him a chance to dictate a lot of the points. 
 Once I started, I blocked a lot of first serve returns, made the balls sort of shoot through the court a little bit more, and he made some more mistakes. 
 But the first set, yeah, he was hitting his forehand really well, and when I had chances he was hitting the spots with his serve, too. He was serving well. 

 Q. What was it like under the roof?
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, last time I made a comment on it I hated it, but for some reason -- I never said that. The roof, it changes the conditions. It's not the same conditions. It's different. 
 If anything, it's, you know, it's like almost too perfect, you know. There's no wind, obviously no sun, no sort of elements to contend with. You know, it's different, different grass-court tennis. 
 And like you saw in the first set, he was able to hit a lot of huge forehands which it's normally harder to do when it's a little bit breezy outside or whatever.
 But it definitely slows the court down a little bit. But it was a good match. I thought it was a good standard of match, and a good atmosphere in there, as well.

 Q. Does it make you feel a little smaller in there with the roof closed? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know. It does still feel pretty big when you're out on the court. The atmosphere changes, as well. It seems quite -- it was louder. I don't know if it was because of the rain. It was just like a constant sort of noise under the roof; whereas when the roof is open, it's probably the quietest court during points in tennis. 
 So that changes a little bit. But, yeah, it's just different. It's not the same.

 Q. Just talk us through the messages on your kit bag.
 ANDY MURRAY: Oh, yeah, they were from Head from the Facebook viral that I did. People were sending me messages of support that got put on my bag.

 Q. Did you pick them?
 ANDY MURRAY: I didn't, no.

 Q. Could I ask you about drug testing, because on the TV they said four tests in 27 days, and last Thursday, on a rare day off, they knocked you up at 7:00 a.m. It's kind of weird, isn't it? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Who said four tests in 27 days? 

 Q. It was John Lloyd, I think. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. I got tested after I lost in the French Open, which was on Friday. I got tested after I lost doubles at Queen's or after my first round singles at Queen's, one of the two. So that was on like Tuesday or Wednesday. And then I got drug tested on Thursday last week. 

 Q. At 7:00 a.m.?
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, that's the thing. You have to give one hour every day where they can come. And because the last that you're ever thinking about when you wake up in the morning is that someone is going to come and drug test you.
 You put it at 7:00 in the morning because I know I'm going to be in bed. It's just a bit annoying because it was my day off and I was looking for a lie-in. And then 7:00, it's like... 

 Q. So were you asleep at the time?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. I was fast asleep. But the thing is, as soon as the bell like from the house went, I sort of like woke up. Took like 10 seconds. Looked at my clock and it was bang on 7:00. It was like, I knew it was them. 
 He rung the bell like six times, as well. It was like... (Laughter.)

 Q. It's a bit harsh, isn't it? Surely you can't be happy about that many tests, or is that quite normal?
 ANDY MURRAY: Normally around this time of year it's pretty normal at most of the big tournaments. I get tested here when the tournament's done. I'm sure the French Open always tests. 
 And then because I'm at home, they always come right before Wimbledon, and then probably at Davis Cup, as well. Normally at Davis Cup we'll get tested, too.
 So it's a lot of testing, but just part of our job, unfortunately.

 Q. Did you make them a cup of tea when they arrived?
 ANDY MURRAY: My mum did, yeah, which we shouldn't make them cups of tea. You know, it's just very intrusive when you get someone sort of in your house in the morning. When you're going to the toilet and they're staring at you, it's a bit -- you know, in your own home, it's just quite strange feeling. (Laughter.) 

 Q. Are you sure they're drug testers?
 ANDY MURRAY: You hope so. I've actually spoken with a few of the players about that in the past that, you know, they could easily -- because it's not like we ever check. I don't really check, you know, whatever they're saying.

 Q. They don't have a card saying... 
 ANDY MURRAY: They do, yeah. They do have the card, but I don't know -- I mean, you're not going to know if it's real or not, are you? 

 Q. You talked before your match about trying to stay calm or about controlling your emotions. You seemed to do that really well today. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I did it well. It was tough, because, you know, I was having quite a lot of chances and I wasn't able to convert any of them for the first set and a half. 
 And then I did get myself fired up when I managed to get the break and played -- there was a game from 3-All, and once I got the break I didn't lose a game.
 So I did a good job of that, and something that, you know, each match I need to keep on improving on it. Because they're going to get tougher. I'm going to go through a lot of those situations during the tournament.

 Q. Was it a matter of satisfaction to win the last two sets to love and complete it with a point you completed it with?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, I played some really good tennis in the third and fourth sets. And, yeah, like I said, I just sort of changed the way I was playing and the way I was returning.
 Even in the first set when I lost it, apart from the game where I got broken, he hardly won many points on my serve. In the second set it was one game at 3-All where he got to deuce, but I think that was the only game. I don't think he had a break point the rest of the match.
 So it was just finding a way of getting that break on serve, which, you know, was similar a little bit to the Tsonga match at Queen's where I couldn't quite get the break. Once I did, I played much better.
 I had to make some adjustments. 

 Q. How important is that to get into a rhythm? You've been able to play under the roof. You're already into the cycle, aren't you, of a two-week tournament?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's good to get off the court, and, you know, get rest day tomorrow. I can recover and get to see maybe a little bit on the TV of the guys who are playing in the next round. 
 You want to, if possible, stay in that routine of just playing every couple of days, and, yeah, just get yourself set up for the tournament. It can be tough when you get that sort of backlog of matches. It's not ideal... 

 Q. Are those messages on the bag something you can just look at for a little bit of inspiration?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I could do, yeah. I didn't today, but a lot of players in the past have done it with, you know, having notes in their bag, and some have had things written on like their racquets or something, on the back of their hand.
 Players have done those sort of things a lot in the past. And, yeah, something I could do if I felt like I needed it.

 Q. Did you watch the golf last night?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I watched it until about 15th hole.

 Q. Rory obviously came back from such a disappointment in the Masters in such spectacular style. Is that something you could take inspiration from?
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, the way he dealt with everything was fantastic. You know, I think, yeah, the way he responded obviously from the lead that he had earlier in the year was excellent. 
 He's obviously one of the -- he's going to probably go on to be one of the best golfers that we've seen before, I think. It's just different. Very different sports in many ways, tennis and golf are, because you're always sort of in control I think in golf. 
 In tennis, like today, the first set and a half I wasn't, you know, I wasn't in control of what was going on out there. So they're very different.
 But the way that he came back from what happened of having a chance of winning his first major was great.

 Q. When you're in a situation like when you're trying to be more controlled, do you actually then say, God, I'm really controlled this time; normally I'm swearing? Do you go on with yourself at this point, or is it becoming natural to become more controlled?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I think sometimes you have to be yourself. It's not like -- it's something obviously I want to work on, something I want to improve; but at the same time, you can sort of just be like, Oh, I'm doing great. I'm not saying it on the court, but I'm a set and a break down. 
 If you need to fire yourself up or get some energy in the match or to change things, then I've got to do that. There might be times in the tournament where I need to let off a bit of steam. But for the most part, I want to try and conserve as much energy as possible. 
 That will help in the long run and the further I go in the tournament.

 Q. Looks like it might be Kamke; he's two sets up at the moment. How much do you know about him? He's somebody who improved a lot last year. 
 ANDY MURRAY: I practiced with him one time before the tournament in Monte-Carlo. I haven't seen him play too much before. I saw he was down 5-1 in the third set, so that one's not done yet. Kavcic I have played a lot in the juniors when we were like 13 and 14. 
 But, yeah, I mean, I'm going to have to play well like I did at the sort of end of the match and make sure that I'm on my game right from the start. You know, today was dangerous.

 Q. Was it a disappointment at all? They turned the big screen off because of the conditions. Is that disappointing for you that your fans didn't get to watch it on the screen?
 ANDY MURRAY: It's disappointing for them, I think. Obviously, yeah, when it rains, you know, there's only one, yeah, one court that you can watch. I'm sure it would be nice -- I'm sure they'll find a way of making sure in the future that they can get it on.
 But I think there are things you learn from having an indoor court for the first time. You know, usually, yeah, there's nothing, no tennis to watch or anything.
 So I'm sure they'll find a way of changing that in the future. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT