U.S. OPEN
August 26, 2017
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Unfortunately, Andy is here to announce he's pulling out of the tournament, so he's going to just make a brief statement.  We'll open up to just three questions.  He doesn't have a lot of elements to discuss.   
Andy?   
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, this is actually why I didn't want to come in here.  Yeah, obviously had the issue with the hip over what's actually been since my match with Stan in Paris.  Did pretty much everything that I could to get myself ready here and took, you know, a number of weeks off after Wimbledon.  You know, I obviously spoke to a lot of hip specialists.  Tried obviously resting, rehabbing, to try and get myself ready here.   
You know, was actually practicing okay the last few days, but it's too sore for me to win the tournament and ultimately that's what I was here to try and do.   
Unfortunately, I won't be playing here this year.   
 Q.  Can you tell us about the medical advice you sought?  Was it that you didn't need an operation and that you wouldn't be hurting yourself by continuing to try and play?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I certainly wouldn't have been hurting myself more by trying to play.  It was more a question of whether, you know, it would settle down in time.   
Obviously, you know, I kind of ran out of, you know, ran out of time maybe if I'd been able to take a little bit more time off.   
You know, I have never had to take any time off because of my hip before, so, you know, we're hoping that by taking a few weeks off and resting and rehabbing and really reducing the load that I was putting through it, that, you know, I would be okay by the time US Open came around, but unfortunately that's not been the case.   
You know, obviously I spoke to a number of specialists about it to get the best advice possible.  Obviously when you speak to a lot, there is different views and opinions on what the best thing to do is moving forward, and that's a decision I'll need to take now.   
 Q.  (Question about prognosis and hope to play again this season.)  
ANDY MURRAY: I'll definitely make a decision on that in the next few days.  That's something that I'll sit down and decide with my team.  But I'll decide on that in the next couple of days, for sure.   
 Q.  Having seen how Roger has come back after a long break and seeing some of your contemporaries also make a decision in their long-term interests, does that give you hope you similarly can come back and be as good as you were before?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, if I get myself fit and healthy, there is no reason why I can't.  I have been practicing here and, you know, competitive in practice when I'm not moving close to how I can when I'm healthy.   
So, you know, obviously there has been a lot of players with injuries this year.  Obviously Roger and Rafa last year had a few problems.   
Look, I want to be back on court as soon as I can.  If it means that, you know, I can play before the end of the year, then, you know, that's what I would love to do.  I miss competing, and I'll try to get myself back on court as soon as I can.   
But, you know, obviously, you know, I'll need to make the correct decision and really think it through these next couple of days with my team, and then, you know, make that decision.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT