BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 12, 2011
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. YOUNG/A. Murray
  7-5, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What would you say is wrong with your game right now?
 ANDY MURRAY: Um, well, most of it was not great today. I didn't serve particularly well. I didn't move very well, which is normally something that, you know, early on in tournaments when you're not hitting the ball well, you know, running a lot of balls down and making your opponent play can sometimes get the job done. 
 But I didn't move particularly well, and, you know, he hit a lot of winners. He gained in confidence I guess from hitting more winners.

 Q. You did say that you were in a sort of an experimentation mode. Was it tough out there just to decide exactly how you wanted to play and what you wanted to do?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I think I was just pretty -- I didn't -- you know, the stuff I have been working on, I didn't really do a whole lot of it out there, and that's kind of what's disappointing. 
 Because, you know, I'd like to be able to say that was the case, but it wasn't at all.

 Q. Why was that? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know. I mean, I started the match well, and then, you know, when it got close to the end of the first set, I just didn't -- I didn't do anything particularly well. I didn't, you know, do anything to really make I guess lift myself. You know, kind of the crowd were, you know, for him. He started playing better. I didn't find my way back into the match.

 Q. A little bit of trouble with the knee? Was there any... 
 ANDY MURRAY: No, the knee is okay. I mean, you get it all the time, especially when you haven't played matches for a while, slight pain, but it's not anything serious.

 Q. You're playing on a different continent. Do you think it's not something of surviving your first match, but playing another tournament on a different continent? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I didn't understand the start of the question. 

 Q. Well, it is your first tournament here in the U.S. now and the circumstances are different. Don't you think it's your first match then that's something of survival, just getting through that first match?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, that's what's important normally. Yeah, you try to find the way to get through it, and I didn't do that today. But that is normally the most important thing. You try and get through any way you can.

 Q. What's your big-picture assessment of Young? Obviously he's had some troubles. This is a big win for him. What do you see for his future?
 ANDY MURRAY: I think he's good. But, yeah, I don't know exactly how good. 
 I think, you know, the toughest thing in the men's game has been - for guys to breakthrough - has been the consistency. Someone like Ryan has shown that he's done five, six, good tournaments in a row, and that's what you need to do if you want to try to get close to the top of the game. That's Donald has to try and do. 

 Q. You and Jamie had an exciting win in the doubles last night. Is that a bit of a silver lining that you look forward to?
 ANDY MURRAY: Not right now, no. I always look forward to playing doubles with Jamie, but right now I would rather still be playing in the singles, obviously. 
 Jamie hurt his foot quite badly and wasn't able to practice today, so I'm hoping he's going to be okay for the doubles. But I have to wait and see.

 Q. The conditions, were they difficult? Second part, how awkward was it playing somebody you hadn't played before?
 ANDY MURRAY: That happens quite a lot. In Australia I played a few guys I never played before. It's not, like, no excuse. You have to just deal with it. Same for him as well. 
 The conditions, again, they're the same for both of us. It's very lively, especially on that court. You know, quite tough to keep the ball down. There's a lot of mistakes sort of long, and then, you know, then if you miss five or six long, then you get a wee bit tentative and you hit a few in the net. You need to make sure you keep going for your shots.

 Q. You have quite a gap before your next match. What are you going to do?
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know. I finished what? 30 minutes ago? I haven't thought about it. I haven't been in that position for a while since I have been here. 
 But I've got doubles, so, you know, I'll stay here until I'm done with doubles, and then I go on to Miami and hopefully have a better week there. 

 Q. Do you think Donald Young will be successful in the next round?
 ANDY MURRAY: I have no idea. Robredo is a very, very tough player. I've played him quite a few times, and he's the sort of guy, you know, when he plays at a high level all the time, he makes a lot of balls, he's very fast, and that will be a tough match.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT