THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 12, 2017
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. QUERREY/A. Murray   
3-6, 6-4, 6-7, 6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How would you analyze or critique your own game today?  
ANDY MURRAY: I think I had chances in the first three sets.  I mean, the second set, I think I was up 4-3, then got broken twice there.  That obviously turned out to be quite an important part of the match.   
I did manage to win the third.  You know, maybe I could have got the match done in three sets there had I closed out the second after getting the break.   
Sam served extremely well at the end of the match, you know, loosened up, was going for his shots.  Nothing much I could do.   
 Q.  Were you in pain at any time?  
ANDY MURRAY: The whole tournament I've been a little bit sore.  But I tried my best right to the end.  You know, gave everything I had.  I'm proud about that.   
But it's obviously disappointing to lose, you know, at Wimbledon.  There's obviously an opportunity there.  So I'm sad that it's over.   
 Q.  At what point did the injury problem start to become a real issue today?  How important was it for you not to retire?  By the end, looked like you were in serious pain.  
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I knew I wasn't going to do any major damage by playing.  So obviously wanted to try, you know, if possible, find a way at the end.  Obviously it wasn't the case.   
Like I said, I mean, Sam served great.  The end of the fourth set and fifth set, felt like he hardly missed any first serves.  He was acing me pretty much every time.  I wasn't getting enough power on my serve to put him in any bother there.  So he was dictating all of the points.   
But, yeah, that was it.   
 Q.  Have you had any specific discussions at this point with your team about how to fix this problem that you clearly had?  
ANDY MURRAY: No, no.  I mean, before the tournament, you know, it was very short-term because, you know, you want to play Wimbledon.  You want to play all of the slams and give your best chance there.  You know, we were looking at short-term solutions.   
Obviously managed to get through a bunch of matches and did okay.  Now I'll sit down with my team and look at the next step, look a little bit longer term.  The US Open's, I don't know, six, seven weeks away maybe, something like that.  You know, sit down with my team tomorrow and come up with a plan for what I have to do next.   
 Q.  There's a possibility your No. 1 ranking could go after this tournament to Novak, I believe.  How tough would that be for that to happen, having worked so hard to get to that point?  
ANDY MURRAY: Not very.  I spoke about that a lot the last few months.  I mean, it was going to happen at some stage.  I don't think anyone has ever stayed at No. 1 their whole career.  It always comes to an end.   
I haven't played well enough this year to deserve to stay there for much longer.  If it doesn't happen by the end of this tournament, it will happen, you know, by the end of the US Open.   
You know, that's fine.  Obviously I would rather be ranked No. 1 than 2, 3 or 4.  You know, I go away now and try and find a way to get back there.  Hopefully I can do that.   
 Q.  You looked in particular pain in the fourth and fifth sets.  Was calling the trainer ever a possibility?  Obviously you had the problem for a long time, but was calling the trainer a possibility for you at that stage?  
ANDY MURRAY: No.  Nothing much you can do there in that situation.   
 Q.  You said at the start of the tournament you would be fit to play seven matches, if necessary.  Did you really think at the start of the tournament that you did have a chance to go on and win the title with how you were feeling?  
ANDY MURRAY: I was pretty close today.  It wasn't like I was, like, a million miles away from winning the match.   
Obviously the end was a bit of a struggle.  But, you know, I almost found a way to get into the semis.  I wasn't that far away from doing that.   
So, yeah, I did think.  I was close-ish.  I mean, I got through, you know, five matches.  Obviously, like I said, the end of the match today was tough.  But, you know, I wasn't far away from doing that.   
 Q.  Is there any sense of relief that this year is over in some way, you'll be able to go back to your family, relax for a bit?  
ANDY MURRAY: The year being over?  You mean Wimbledon?   
 Q.  Wimbledon.  
ANDY MURRAY: No, no, it's not relief.   
 Q.  Sam is the first U.S. player to reach a major semifinal since 2009.  
ANDY MURRAY: Male player.   
 Q.  I beg your pardon?  
ANDY MURRAY: Male player.   
 Q.  First male player.  How would you describe the adjustments he made today and his overall game?  
ANDY MURRAY: I think he's obviously played well this tournament.  He's looking to be aggressive.  I think, you know, with the strengths that he has, and the power that he has, that gives him the best chance to do well in these events.   
He obviously had a good run here last year.  You know, when he's serving well - I think going into the match he was averaging 25 aces a match - it maybe allows him to be a little bit freer in the rest of his game and go for his shots.   
He's coming forward a bit more than he used to in the past.  He's certainly competent at the net.  You know, he makes his volleys.  He's a big guy up there.  That's definitely one adjustment he's made, he seems to be looking to come forward a bit more.   
Yeah, that's the main difference I would say I saw in his game.   
 Q.  I know you say you'll have discussions with your team tomorrow.  Given the physical issues you've had this year, do you think you might benefit from a longer break and possibly miss some of the hard court tournaments?  
ANDY MURRAY: I don't know.  Depends.  I mean, I'll get the best advice I can, then stick with that.  If it means, you know, taking a few weeks' rest, then so be it.  If it means training and doing the right, you know, rehab and stuff, then I'll do that.   
I have no idea of exactly what that's going to be.  Just like I said, you know, before Wimbledon, it's a very short-term mindset.  You're trying to get yourself in the best shape possible for this tournament, and I did that.  I did the best that I could.   
Then, yeah, now I'll listen to my team and, you know, get the best advice I can, make a decision after that.   
 Q.  With Jo's results, is the tough loss today just a tad tougher because there could have been a British double?  
ANDY MURRAY: No, no, it isn't.  It's tough today.  It would have been tough regardless of Jo's results.  You know, I hope she goes on to win the tournament.  She's certainly got, you know, a fantastic chance.  I saw quite a lot of the match yesterday.  She played extremely well under a lot of pressure, at the end of that second set especially.   
So, you know, she keeps playing like that, there's no reason why she can't do it.  Hopefully she goes on to win.   
 Q.  You reportedly were one of several people affected by that significant traffic incident on the A3 this morning, delaying your arrival to the club.  Did that affect your prematch preparation today at all?  
ANDY MURRAY: Not really.  I did arrive a bit later than I anticipated.  But I always give myself enough time in case something goes wrong.  You know, things can happen.  Sometimes, you know, getting here a bit earlier, in case it rains, you know, I plan to arrive about four and a half hours before the match.  I got here four hours before the match.  You know, it wasn't a big deal.   
 Q.  Sam is entering his first semifinal now.  What does he have to do in order to win this tournament?  I'm specifically thinking about from the mental approach.  
ANDY MURRAY: Believe that he can win is the most important thing.  You know, obviously go out and play his game, play the way that's got him here.   
But, yeah, he needs to believe he can win.  That goes a long, long way.  When you step on the court, the semis, finals of a major, you need to believe you can do it.   
That isn't always the case when you haven't been there before.  First-time experience.  You can maybe be pleased to be in that position.  I think it's good to be happy to be there, but you want to go out there and win.  Hopefully he does that.   
 Q.  Now that your tournament is over, can you perhaps be a bit more specific about the exact nature of the injury, where it is?  Have you been playing with any injections?  
ANDY MURRAY: I'm not going to go into all the details of exactly what my hip issues are.   
Like I said, I've been dealing with it for a very long time during my career.  Obviously as you get older, things are a little bit tougher to manage than they are when you're younger.  There's a bit more wear and tear there.  Yeah, and that's it.   
I've managed to deal with it for a very long time.  I'm sure moving forward I'll be able to, you know, get through it.  Yeah, I just need to do all of the right things and be even more diligent and professional than I have been recently.   
I feel like I've done all of the right stuff, but I'll try to do more, try to get myself in better shape.  Hopefully I'll come through the other side of it a better player, a better athlete.  That's what I'll try and do.   
 Q.  Considering all the things you're saying, all the talk of these injuries, right down to the end there, it was the last point of the second-to-last game when you turned and twisted, played a backhand into play, what does it mean to you to still keep trying to chase down these things when it's almost gone?  
ANDY MURRAY: Well, you're just trying to do your best.  I mean, ultimately that is all you can do.  Number one priority when you go out there on the day, I think for most athletes, you want to win.  That's the first and foremost.  In reality you're not going to win every single match, so all you can do is give your best on the day.   
I tried to do that throughout the whole tournament.  That was the same today.   
 Q.  Will you seek any fresh medical advice before discussing your hip and how to deal with it?  If you do end up having a break, will you look at other aspects of your setup or are you generally happy with how things are going?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I will get the best advice possible, speak to my team about where I go next.  I mean, that's what I have to do just now.   
You know, this year has obviously been frustrating at times.  It's not been the easiest.  But, you know, I'll want to obviously come back and try and compete for majors.  Yeah, that's what I'll try and do.   
 Q.  Are you generally happy with your setup?  
ANDY MURRAY: What do you mean 'happy with'?   
 Q.  Sometimes it's time to reassess when you're not playing.  
ANDY MURRAY: In terms of my team?   
 Q.  Your team, everything else.  
ANDY MURRAY: I'm fine with my team, yeah.   
 Q.  You mentioned obviously you will discuss with your team about your forthcoming schedule.  What about the next immediate two or three days, how do you kind of unwind from the disappointment of today?  What will you do?  
ANDY MURRAY: Like, I go home and spend time with my family.  That will be, you know, immediately what I'll do.  Then tomorrow, yeah, back to work.  Sit down, like I said, with my team.  I'll sit down with them tomorrow and discuss the best plan moving forward.  That starts tomorrow.   
 Q.  Tomorrow?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, no time to waste there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT