AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2011
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/J. Melzer
  6-3, 6-1, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You must be rather contented with that performance today. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was very good. Again, like the first few matches, I started very well. I started hitting the ball very cleanly right from the beginning of the match. There was a few games where it was tough from one of the ends. Doesn't feel it when you're watching, but all the players will tell you from the far side of the court, it is difficult. I came through a couple of tough service games from that side. 
 Yeah, when I had the wind with me, I dictated a lot of the points, returned very well, served well in the second and third set. So it was very good. 

 Q. When you see someone who can be so difficult, throwing his racquet down, getting out of sorts, confidence-wise does that put you at a high level that you know you got this guy? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know. I mean, I don't know. I don't know if it helps or not. But, yeah, I was really just focused on my side of the net today, what I had to do. I wasn't worrying too much about what he was doing or saying. Yeah, I just played my side of the net and played it very well. 
 Yeah, he did get frustrated. That might have showed a bit in his game. But, no, I was just focusing on what I was doing. 

 Q. Obviously you've had straight forward matches. How are you feeling with your game, yourself, physically? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I feel good. The matches are definitely going to get tougher. I'm not expecting to go through, you know, the tournament winning matches like that, with that score line. So, you know, I'm ready for that mentally when it does get tough. 
 Whether there has been tight moments, like today it was right at the beginning of the match, went up a break, got broken straight back. I managed to break him in the next game, so I've been staying strong. I've been moving well. Today I hit the ball the best I had done of the first few matches. 
 It's been a very good start, but it's going to get much tougher.

 Q. Will you comment a little bit on the next opponent. 
 ANDY MURRAY: I know a little bit about him. I played him once before. He's got a very unorthodox game, very different to most of the guys on the tour. Yeah, he's starting to put everything together. He's playing well, taking chances. Yeah, it's just different. He has a game that can make you play strange shots or, you know, not play that well. So you need to play, you know, as solid as you can against him 'cause if you start playing sort of inconsistent, a bit up and down, that's when he plays his best. 
 If you can keep making a lot of balls, chase everything down, not give him many free points, I think he can start to miss. But he was playing well today. 

 Q. I didn't hear all of the post-match, but have you meet Billy Connolly?
 ANDY MURRAY: I met him after the match. But I hadn't met him beforehand. 

 Q. What was that interaction like? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I've never been to his shows. When I used to like travel around, most of the tournaments we went to were in England, so we used to drive Scotland down to England. We used to listen to him on like cassettes. 
 So, yeah, I've never been to see him live. I might try and go see him this evening if I've got time. But, yeah, I mean, he's obviously a very, very funny guy. He's very normal, too. It's not like he was trying to be funny. He's just a funny guy. 

 Q. Do you have a favorite Billy Connolly joke?
 ANDY MURRAY: No. That's the thing. We used to listen to it all the time, from maybe like 10, 11 years old until I was up to 15, 16. Then I haven't seen that much of his stuff for a little while. I'm hoping I'm going to be able to go along and see it. We got a few little tidbits when we were talking to him. 
 My mum and dad were pretty lenient with that stuff. Probably why my language is so bad on the court (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT