AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2011
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/G. Garcia-Lopez
  6-1, 6-1, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Fairly straightforward?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I got off to a good start and played well from there. I mean, the first game, you know, doesn't always sort of dictate the way the match is going to go, but it definitely helped today.   
 I broke from 40-Love in the first game and played well after that.   
  
  Q. What did you think of his between-the-legs shot in the first game?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was good. It was the first time someone passed me on a through-the-legs shot on the tour. It was a very close one on the line.   
  
  Q. In terms of getting a match done with a minimum fuss and the quickest time possible, it couldn't have been any better today, could it?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it was good. Obviously, it was a quick match. Served well. Hit the ball clean from the back. That was it.   
 Yeah, I played well. He probably didn't play his best. It was over quickly. So, I mean, it was hot today, so it was nice to get off the court.   
  
  Q. How important is that, not expending yourself through five huge ones on a hot day?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it makes a big difference. When we warmed up this morning it was pretty cool. And then, yeah, as soon as the clouds went away it became hot.   
 Yeah, it was very, very good to get off quickly. Didn't use up much energy at all. There wasn't many long rallies. So, yeah, it was perfect.   
  
  Q. Just looking ahead to tonight, obviously in terms of a local match, Rafa and Bernard Tomic is huge. How do you see that playing out? Do you have any advice for Bernard?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I see Rafa winning, and I think it will be pretty comfortable. The first set I think will be the tightest of the three sets. But, I mean, I think it will be a great experience for Tomic. I'm sure he enjoys it.   
 I've seen a little of his matches so far; he's played very well; he's a nice player to watch. He'll be very good in the future, that's for sure.   
  
  Q. Your next opponent could be Jurgen Melzer. You have experience with him. Can you tell us what you expect if he is your next opponent?  
 ANDY MURRAY: A tough match. He's very unpredictable on the court. He played his best year last year on the tour. Yeah, he takes a lot of chances on the court. He can also make some mistakes, too. He plays quite high-risk tennis.   
 I played him quite a lot. I don't think I played him last year. But he's definitely improved, you know. The older he got, he's started to play better. He's started to understand his game better. So, yeah, it will be a tough match, whether it's Melzer or Baghdatis. Both are very good players.   
  
  Q. You've been hitting up quite a lot with young George Morgan. Are you impressed with his attitude and his approach, what you've seen?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, he hits the ball well. Yeah, he hits the ball well. It is tough when you're just warming up for matches just sort of up and down the middle.   
 But, you know, he hits a solid ball. He's got, you know, a decent whack on his serve. He can hit it pretty big. He can play with a bit of topspin. It's not all one pace. Yeah, he's good.   
 I haven't seen him play that many matches or played points against him to see exactly what his game is like, but he hits the ball well for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT