AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2011
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/K. Beck
  6-3, 6-1, 4-2 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Do you get much out of that?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, yeah. I mean, I don't know exactly when he hurt himself. But, I mean, he was serving pretty well up until, you know, the end of the second set. And, yeah, I thought it was a pretty good match. I started well. Wasn't great at the end of the first set, then played better in the second.   
 But, uhm, yeah, I mean, obviously you'd rather finish the match off without your opponent being hurt. But, you know, it does happen quite a lot. So you just have to move on and get yourself ready for the next round.   
  
  Q. Does that affect your preparation for the next round in any way?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No, it was pretty close to the end. I mean, I think, you know, I don't know if it was maybe 4-2 in the third when he stopped. So, yeah, I mean, I don't think it will affect me too much in the next round.   
  
  Q. When he was going for it in the third set, he was firing everything. Did you think, At some point he's going to blow up or can he keep this going?  
 ANDY MURRAY: He's a very talented player. He hit some great shots. Yeah, obviously, you know, yeah, he just started throwing everything at me. He went for some huge shots. I just kind of had to weather the storm a little bit. I had some chances to go up a break in the third set, and again Love-30, didn't manage to break. So I was having chances.   
 I just had to hang in, make a lot of balls. It was high-risk tennis. Managed to make a few mistakes before he stopped.   
  
  Q. Is that court a little tricky? You had that great match against Martin three or four years ago. Because it's so far away, is it sometimes difficult to get your concentration right?  
 ANDY MURRAY: It's actually one of the nicest courts to play on. When you hit the ball, like the echo, the noise it makes, you always feel like you're hitting the ball well. I practiced on it a couple of times before the start of the tournament. It's actually a really, really nice court to play on.   
 There is a lot of space around the court. There's a huge space between the people on the side and the crowd. Sometimes it takes a little bit of time to get your bearings.   
 But I like that court. It's a really nice court.   
  
  Q. What do you think of the weather conditions so far?  
 ANDY MURRAY: It's different, you know, to what we normally have here. Today was actually pretty cold. It changes the way the court plays a lot. He hits the ball very flat anyway. With the court not being particularly warm, it was coming through quite low, whereas I'm sure in the next round later on in the week when it gets warmer, the ball is going to be bouncing very, very high. Very different tennis.   
 Yeah, it's just conditions that, you know, you have to deal with. A lot of the slams, the conditions can vary from day to day. You just have to be ready for anything.   
  
  Q. Reassuring to get that first one always, isn't it, in a slam?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, like I said before the tournament, everyone always has slight doubts before the start. You know, you're always a bit nervous. But getting off to a good start, getting a break early in the match, does help a lot, which I managed to do. Yeah, nice to be through to the second round with no drama.   
  
  Q. First meeting with Marchenko. Can you give your thoughts on what he might pose in terms of problems?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't really know him that well. I saw him play a little bit when the Ukraine played Great Britain in Davis Cup. That was obviously quite a while ago. He's improved a lot since then.   
 Danny and my mom went to watch some of his match after I finished, so they will give me the tactics, things to look for. But, yeah, I don't know his game that well.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding getting pictures developed.)   
 ANDY MURRAY: I haven't actually seen them. I don't know if they were in the papers or not. I haven't seen them.   
  
  Q. Was it a million you helped to raise?  
 ANDY MURRAY: It was great. Yeah, there's many of those things that the players can do the better. Obviously, raised $2 million, it's a huge amount of money and I'm sure will help out a lot. So, yeah, I mean, I think all of the players enjoyed it. It was obviously for a good cause. The crowd I think loved it. TV enjoyed it, too. Yeah, the more of those things we can do, the better.   
  
  Q. Spoke to Jamie about his accident?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I haven't spoken to him about it. My mum told me about it when I woke up this morning. But, yeah, I haven't seen him yet today.   
 I think it actually happened in a doubles match here. I saw that on YouTube. I think Llodra hit a bird a few years ago. That doesn't happen that often.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANDY MURRAY: Not that I'm aware of. I'll ask him, but I hope not.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT