SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 17, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/R. Federer
  6-3, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Was that the most satisfying moment for a little while for you?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was obviously a very, very good week. You know, tonight's match was, you know, from my side, very solid. Roger had a couple chances to get back in the first set, a few big serves on some of them. He had one big chance with a forehand that he missed.   
 Apart from that, it was obviously a great, great match for me. Made few mistakes. I mean, as a tournament overall I'm very happy with it.   
  
  Q. What did you make of the overrule on his smash in the second set?   
 ANDY MURRAY: I felt that happened to me a lot as well. It happens. I mean, if I was him, I would be annoyed, of course. But it didn't. So, you know, you've just got to -- I mean, as a player, you just kind of have to try to put it to the back of your mind. It can be difficult, especially when you're trying to get yourself back into the match.   
 But that's where the Hawk-Eye system, at least it kind of gave him a chance, because if not, it would have been called out, and that would have been the game done.   
 But, yeah, it happens sometimes.   
  
  Q. When at the start of a match you decide to ask him to serve first, what is the thinking behind that?   
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, sometimes in finals, you know, there's normally some nerves. You normally calm down a bit in the second game, I feel anyway. You know, it is nice if you do serve first. You get, you know, the quick hold, a few big serves, you feel a bit better about yourself.   
 But, I mean, when I played against him, I think I let him serve most times. Some matches this week I decided to serve first, some I decided to receive first. It just kind of depends on how you feel on the day. And today I felt like receiving.   
  
  Q. And although he had six breakpoints, didn't make any of them, how pleased were you with your level of serving and consistently, not only today but throughout this championship?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I served really big today. Got a lot of free points on my serve. You know, I can still work on the variation a little bit on my serve. But, I mean, my second serve - the first serve was good - my second serve this week was very good I thought. Especially tonight, I didn't give him any chances to go for it. I threw some with a lot of kick on, some slice, some into his forehand. Really varied that well, which sometimes against him I haven't necessarily done.   
  
  Q. Can you explain why you have such a good record against him?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I mean, it's difficult. I enjoy playing him. I don't find it easy at all. It's incredibly difficult every time.   
 But I love the challenge of playing against him. I don't fear playing him. You know, but I know that I could lose the match easily if I don't play my best. So maybe every time I go on, I know, you know, I need to play great tennis to win against him.   
 I mean, I don't know if my game matches up well against his or not. But I've played some of my best tennis against Roger.   
  
  Q. You never lacked the ability to win Masters Series. I think you do have the ability to win Grand Slams. What do you think you have to do to carry your form in some of the Masters Series into a Grand Slam?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I need to play like I did this week for a whole tournament in the slams. But it's pretty simple. I don't think my game needs to improve so much. I think I have the ability to win them. I've been close a few times. You know, I need to win tournaments like this. Beating guys like Roger, beating guys like Rafa gives you confidence that when you do play them in the big tournaments, that you will beat them.   
 You know, I need to, yeah, just play my best tennis at a Grand Slam. It's down to me to do that. But it's a tough thing to do.   
  
  Q. What memories will you bring back from playing in Shanghai?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I really enjoyed the tournament in Shanghai. I've been here only once before. I said the whole week, they put on a great tournament. I really enjoy it. People are very friendly. They try very hard to make the tournament as easy for the players as possible. They just run a really good tournament.   
 I don't know how it is for the press, but for the players, they put on a great event and I really enjoy it. So I have good memories from Shanghai both times I've been here.   
  
  Q. Andy, I don't recall him getting so ratty with an umpire. He was constantly complaining, having dialogue with him. Have you ever known Roger to get that uptight with the officials? What goes through your mind when you're sitting at the chair and you hear him clearly being unsettled?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, against me, it's the first time it's happened. But, I mean, that's the thing, it does happen to everybody at some point. All of the players get annoyed with things during matches. You know, some get more annoyed than others. It happens to some guys less than others.   
 Like I said, when you're trying to get yourself back into the match, and there's a couple of calls go against you and whatnot, it's very, very frustrating.   
 You know, when your opponent is the one that's getting frustrated, you just need to try and focus because it can distract you a bit, you know, when it first happens. But if it sort of keeps going for a few games, you need to make sure you sort of take your time, don't rush, and know that they're frustrated. You just have to almost make a lot of balls, just kind of keep making them play, because they're quite tense. That's all you can do.   
 But it can be difficult not to lose your concentration.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT