SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 15, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Tsonga
  6-2, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. That must have been very pleasing for you, very positive performance, full of good points.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. I mean, I played well today. Served good, got off to a good start, which is important against him. Well, he's a really good frontrunner. But he struggled a little bit on his serve. He wasn't serving as big as usual, so I managed to get into a lot of the return games.   
 From my side, I served well, didn't give him any chances on my serve. I was hitting the ball really clean from the back of the court, so it was a good start.  
  
  Q. The dropshot worked well for you today. Was this part of the strategy to get him running around the court, pull him in?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Not really. I think, you know, a dropshot worked well because I was hitting the ball clean from the back of the court. I was able to push him further behind the baseline, and therefore the dropshot becomes a much easier shot to use if you can get your opponent back. And using it sometimes after the serve if your opponent's standing a long way back to return is a good tactic.   
 But it wasn't something that I talked about before the match.   
  
  Q. You said yesterday it's easier for a player to play in the same conditions. Today vastly changed from yesterday. Seems your victory is much easier. How do you feel about the weather, sunshine, outdoor court?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, it was nice today. Good conditions. There was no wind. The sun had gone, as well. Normally, those are the two things that make playing outdoors a little bit trickier, you know, if it's very windy or the sun can make it difficult to serve. But neither were really a factor.   
 I got used to the conditions pretty quickly. It was a little bit different when the roof's closed, but it didn't really affect me today.   
  
  Q. When do you reckon you felt as good as this or played as well as this?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I was playing well in Wimbledon and Toronto. I played both good tennis, obviously. At the beginning of the year, I was playing well.   
 But, you know, because the year's been up and down, I feel like I'm hitting the ball really clean. You know, I had to practice a lot before coming out to Asia. But obviously when I got here, I was struggling but with the illness. Now I feel like I guess I was hitting a lot of balls. So I felt like I'm hitting the ball a lot cleaner. I'm spending more time on the practice court than in the gym, and it's paying off.  
  
  Q. Can you talk us through your possible future opponents.   
 ANDY MURRAY: I played Melzer a few times. I mean, had some really good matches with him. Played him in Davis Cup. Played him at the US Open, as well. I think I played him at the Australian Open, too.   
 But, I mean, he's obviously a top player. He's having a great year this year. He's had some big wins. Obviously last night was another one.   
 And Monaco I've played a couple of times. I used to practice with him a lot in Spain. I practiced with him quite a lot at tournaments, as well. So we both know each other's games well. You know, it can be difficult playing someone you know, but it's nice if you do get the chance.   
  
  Q. Seems that your form is getting better and better. How did you adjust it? As Rafa was drawn from the match, maybe it's a better chance for you to go further?   
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know if it's a better chance for me to go further or not. I mean, you just have to practice more if you want to play better. You just need to keep working hard, try and stay calm and focused when you're in the matches.   
 I've been pretty focused the last couple of matches.   
  
  Q. I'm trying to think of the Andy Murray Greatest Hits Album. Would the Federer match in the '08 Tennis Masters Cup come right up in there?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I can't remember all of the match too well. But, yeah, it was a great win for me. It was the first time at the Masters Cup. You know, Roger's record in the Masters Cup was pretty incredible. So, yeah, that was one of my best wins. I think it was maybe over three hours for a three-set match, which doesn't happen too often. So, yeah, a great win for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT