SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 14, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/J. Chardy
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Are you relieved or just pleased to get through to London after that win? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I think it's a great achievement to qualify for the Tour Finals. You know, yeah, so obviously very happy to have done it, you know, with a few tournaments left. 
 You know, today actually was a good match. I was happy with the way I played, too, which helps. 

 Q. When does it start to become a priority in a top player's mind? Is it once the US Open is out of the way that you sort of start doing your sums, I need points here, points there?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I try not to look at the points as such. Try and focus on, yeah, obviously winning the matches, knowing exactly what you have to do in terms of winning rounds. I was told that I'd be guaranteed if I made semis this week. That was obviously the goal. But obviously nice to be there having reached the quarters. 
 I mean, I think all of the guys, if you haven't qualified by the US Open, you've got maybe four or five tournaments before the Tour Finals. That's really the goal for those tournaments. 

 Q. It's not something that enters the minds of the top four or five until New York is done, is it? Do you sit there thinking in March, What do I have to do to get to London, or... 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think the closer it gets to the tournament, you start thinking about it. So much can happen at the beginning of the year, you know. Like I had a great tournament in Australia, then I had three or four really bad months. I might have been outside the top eight, I don't know, until maybe Wimbledon time. 
 So you have to try and view the year as a whole and not really panic if things go bad at the start of the year because it's such a long season. 

 Q. In the beginning of the match your opponent got three breakpoints, but you adjusted yourself as soon as possible. How did you do it?
 ANDY MURRAY: I served well under pressure. You know, he had quite a few breakpoints in the first set, and I saved them all pretty well with good serves or, you know, a good first serve and a big forehand a couple of times. 
 So, yeah, that was really, really important to get a good start in the match 'cause against him, he's very, very streaky. He can play some great tennis. So, you know, I needed to try to get ahead early, and I managed to do that. 

 Q. I noticed your first-serve percentage is just 53%, even lower than Chardy's 68%. What do you think about that? Is it normal? If not, what's the reason?
 ANDY MURRAY: I didn't get broken today, so if I served 20% and didn't get broken I'd be happy. I thought my second serve today was good. I served a lot into his forehand and varied the serve a lot, which helped. And he served exceptionally well. He served 80% first serves in the first set. To beat a guy, win a set against someone that serves that well, with that high percentage, was good. 
 But I think in my first two matches I served well. 

 Q. The weather actually turned an outdoor hard court into an indoor tournament. Do you feel anything strange or you just feel more comfortable under the roof? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I think all of the players, it's easier if you play all of your matches in the same conditions. I grew up playing indoors, so it's never been a problem for me playing under the roof. 
 But, you know, I mean, for me it would be nice if it was an indoor event. But, I mean, the facilities here are pretty incredible, so they can kind of do whichever one they want. They've got a lot of indoor courts here, as well. At some tournaments, the rain could have made the tournament a huge problem, but whereas here it's not been too bad.

 Q. Every possibility you might play Tsonga in the next round. Wondered what your thoughts are about that. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, yeah, he's obviously a very tough player. Big serve, big forehand, you know, very aggressive game. He's kind of similar to Chardy in many ways, but probably just kind of a better all-around player. 
 He's a very good athlete. He's one of the top players, that's for sure. He's just come back from quite a long injury, you know, which is always tough. But, you know, I'm sure he'll be very motivated for the last few tournaments of the year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT