SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 11, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How is your fitness after Beijing? You were complaining early on in the week, were you? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I was sick before I got there and for the first few days I was there. So feeling a bit better than I was. 

 Q. Are you excited about coming to a new stadium, new venue, getting some matches in here? What do you think so far of Shanghai?
 ANDY MURRAY: It's a great place. Really fun. I think, I mean, the facilities here are the best of any of the Masters Series. Yeah, I mean, I think it's one of the best tournaments, one of the best venues. 
 And, yeah, I only played obviously the indoor event in the Masters Cup. This is my first time here. It's pretty impressive the amount of courts you've got. Everything's run really, really well. 
 So it's good. Enjoying it. 

 Q. How do you feel your form is at the moment after the loss that you had against Ljubicic? Have you managed to shake that off?
 ANDY MURRAY: I guess I have to see when I play my first match here. I feel okay, you know, would like to win some matches here. It would be nice. 
 But, you know, got a pretty tough first-round match against Stepanek. Have to wait and see how that goes. 

 Q. The lack of energy that you've complained about at the US Open, did you ever get to the bottom of exactly what that was all about? 
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I don't think you ever get to the bottom of it. Like I said at the time, it's not really an excuse for losing the match. It's just, you know, not every day you wake up and you're not going to feel your best. You've got to try to find a way to come through when you're feeling like that. That day, I didn't manage to come through. 
 That's something that I need to, yeah, just try and get better at. You know, I did a good job of it last year. This year hasn't been as good. It's something that I'll look to improve on. 

 Q. Andy, given there's only five weeks left in the season, everybody wants to improve, would you make it a priority to really try to lift your game going into London? Would that be some sort of a motivation?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. I mean, my goal is to qualify for London, and then obviously want to try and improve on some things. You know, yeah, there's only one or two ways to improve things: you need to practice it a lot on the practice court and then you need to try and do it when you're out on the match court, you know, so that hopefully it becomes sort of more natural. 
 But yeah, I mean, I want to try to qualify for London. I really enjoyed playing there last year. That's what I've got to try to do the next few tournaments. 

 Q. Could you talk about Nadal and the fact that he's won three Grand Slams in a row. After your performance against him in Australia, I don't think many of us would have thought he would have won the French, Wimbledon, the US Open back to back. What do you think of him as a player? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I've spoken about him many times. I think he's a great player. He's great for tennis. Yeah, I mean, this year has been his best year on the tour, for sure. I don't know if he would agree with that. From the other players' point of view, it's been incredibly impressive. 
 Yeah, there's not a whole lot else to say about him. He's obviously one of the best ever. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT