CHINA OPEN
October 5, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/P. Mathieu
  6-2, 6-3 

 THE INTERPRETER: Questions, please. 

 Q. How are you feeling now? You looked a bit more relaxed out there. Wasn't particularly a trying game as such. How would you rate your performance?
 ANDY MURRAY: I thought I did well. I started the match good and didn't give him any opportunities really except in, yeah, the second set 3-2 I think was the only game where he had a couple of break points on my serve. It was a good first round. 

 Q. Switching gears a little bit, I think your brother is playing in the Commonwealth Games. I don't think he's had his first round yet. Have you given him any advice? Have you spoken to him today?
 ANDY MURRAY: I actually just messaged him before I came in here, oddly enough, and he hasn't replied yet. He played mixed doubles yesterday and won. He plays his first singles match today. I'm not sure what time that is yet.

 Q. Did you give him any advice?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I'm waiting to hear back from him. I might have a little chat with him before he goes on. 
 Apparently it's very hot in Delhi just now, and he hasn't played a singles match for a good three or four years, so I'm sure he's gonna struggle a little bit.

 Q. Out on the court today you did look a little achy in between games. I was just wondering how you felt physically today. 
 ANDY MURRAY: I felt like I was pretty out of breath when there were some long rallies. I've been quite ill the last week. I started feeling better today, but I haven't practiced that much on the court, so obviously, you know, playing long rallies and the first match in quite a few weeks, probably I'm a little bit stiff and sore. 

 Q. It seemed that you still had your ankle still strapped, and you kind of held on to your knee a couple times. Are you okay there physically?
 ANDY MURRAY: I've worn the ankle brace every match for the last five years, so that's nothing new. I just wear it for protection.
 Yeah, like I said, everywhere, hips and sort of joints are just a little bit sore. It doesn't take too many matches before you start feeling normal again. 

 Q. You always love hard court. How do you rate the court here, and do you think it perfectly suit your game?
 ANDY MURRAY: It's quite fast, you know, which is good. I quite like it. You know, there wasn't too many long rallies today, which would suggest the court was playing quickly, but, no, I liked it. It was a nice court to play on. It was very still on the court, no wind at all. I played well. 

 Q. You have a friend here help you. Is he doing good? Is Alex or somebody else come to Shanghai next week? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Sorry? 

 Q. You have a friend help you this week. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah.

 Q. Is he doing good?
 ANDY MURRAY: Is he doing good? 

 Q. Yeah. And also, is Alex or other coaches come to Shanghai next week? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Alex is going to come to Valencia and Paris. He's not coming to Shanghai next week. 
 Yeah, my friend's doing absolutely fine, yeah. Doing good. 

 Q. Just going back to your elder brother, has he said anything about the athletes' accommodations and stuff? Is he quite happy and stuff?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, he said -- I mean, he said it was fine. He didn't -- he hasn't told me there's been any problems. Also, Ross Hutchins who is one of my best friends, is there, as well. He said to me that it was, like the Athletes Village and stuff, was great. Apparently the opening ceremony yesterday was excellent. But, yeah, they've not had any problems so far. 

 Q. I found that your serves are unstable and you may have high-speed serves, or ace, but there are also many faults. What do you think of these? Explanation? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I don't know. I thought I served quite well today. I didn't get broken once, and like you said, I served a lot of aces. So I was happy with the way I served today, but I will try and make less faults for you tomorrow. (Laughter.)

 Q. I'm sure you're bored with the questions about future coach, but you have said in the past that you'd like to have someone like Bjorn Borg, Pete Sampras, Ivan Lendl. Any approaches to them? Any noises back at all?
 ANDY MURRAY: No. Again, I didn't actually -- what I was asked was whether or who I would like to have coach me, and I said that, you know, if it was a player, it would be, or an ex-great player, you know, they're all obviously guys that, you know, were some of the best that have ever played the game, so I think any player would be interested in working with someone like that.
 But, yeah, I haven't made any approaches yet to anyone, because I'm still trying to decide exactly what it is that I want. Like I say, I'll probably make that decision before the end of this year, but a lot more goes into it than just sort of, Okay, I want a coach. This is the person I want. Let's do it. 
 I want to make sure I get the right person. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT