CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE INTERPRETER: Good afternoon, everybody. Now we begin the press conference, and today we are happy to have one of the best players in the ATP World Tour from United Kingdom, Andy Murray. 
 Questions, please. 

 Q. You haven't played I don't think since the US Open. How are you feeling? How is your training going, and what do you think your chances are here in Beijing?
 ANDY MURRAY: I took a few weeks off after the US Open. I was away after Wimbledon. I was away 10 weeks. I was in the States for 10 weeks, you know, so I needed a little break afterwards, and then I probably had sort of 10 days, two weeks of training to get ready here. 
 It's slightly -- I was training obviously indoors back home. Just take a few days to get used to the conditions here, playing outdoors again, and obviously pretty windy. 

 Q. A lot of speculation. Have you found a coach? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Not yet, no. 

 Q. Anyone in mind? Someone before this competition here?
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I mean, I said before the US Open, well, quite a few weeks before the US Open, that it's not something I want to rush into. I want to make sure I pick the right coach. You know, I don't want to just go for anyone and it might be a mistake in three, four months. 
 I want to make sure I get the right person. I think the best thing to do is -- I've been working with Alex Corretja for the last two, three years now. So I'm going to keep working with him through the end of the year and then look to appoint someone before the start of the new year, probably in December time, when I've got a bit of time to kind of try some coaches out. 

 Q. I know that this is the first time coming to China Open, and no doubt it's a big surprise for all the Chinese tennis fans. May I ask you why you choose China Open instead of the game in Tokyo, Japan?
 ANDY MURRAY: Um, I've never actually, yeah, never played here. Like you say, I've played once in Tokyo a few years ago, and I did very badly. (Laughter.)
 Yeah, and I really enjoyed it when I came over here for the Olympics. It was a great experience for me, so that was why I decided to come back here, to get good preparation for Shanghai. 

 Q. How did you spend your past few days in Beijing? You talk about the Olympic Games. Your trip to Beijing last time was pretty short. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah.

 Q. Have you got time to see around?
 ANDY MURRAY: Not yet, actually. I spend most of my time -- I've been awake from like 3:00 in the morning till like 5:00, so I spend most of my time here and in my bed, so I haven't had the chance to do anything yet. (Laughter.)
 But I'd like to.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT