U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. WAWRINKA/A. Murray
  6-7, 7-6, 6-3, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Any physical issues out there today?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I mean, just part and parcel of playing that sort of length of match, I guess.   
  
  Q. So what was the treatment for then when the trainer came on?   
 ANDY MURRAY: The first time, just tightness in my quad; the second time, just getting sort of pins and needles around my right elbow.   
  
  Q. When did you first start to feel the problems?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Beginning of the third set probably.   
  
  Q. Did it affect you moving one side or the other or any particular shot?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, no. I was still moving okay.   
  
  Q. Did fatigue play a part at all today?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Could have been. I don't -- I don't know. I haven't been really tired in any long matches for a long, long time.   
 So whether it was fatigue or not, I don't know.   
  
  Q. Could starting your tournament late then have been a factor?   
 ANDY MURRAY: I wouldn't have thought that was the problem today, no.   
  
  Q. So what was the problem? Was it partly Stanislas...  
 ANDY MURRAY: He played better than me. There's not a whole lot more to it. He had a chance to win the first set; didn't take it. I had a chance to win the second set; didn't take it. I just struggled from then on.  
  
  Q. There were various incidents, including the one in the first set in the tiebreak. Can you explain what happened where it seemed like the ball hit the net and he celebrated too early?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, the ball hit the net, and, yeah, he celebrated. I asked the umpire whether or not you're allowed to call out in the middle of the point, and he said yeah.   
  
  Q. There was another incident, said something to a ball boy. I wasn't sure who you were talking to.   
 ANDY MURRAY: I said something to a ball boy?   
  
  Q. I'm not sure.   
 ANDY MURRAY: I had a little bit of blood on my finger, and the ball boy said he couldn't use the towel if there was blood on it. So I just got a new one.   
 But I didn't have a problem with any of the ballboys.   
  
  Q. You said he played better than you. You know Stan. You practice with him sometimes. Have you noticed any change in his game today?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. He played well. He served very well when he needed to. Just played a better match.   
  
  Q. You must obviously be very, very disappointed. Could you express your feelings. What do you think you have to do to get through in a major?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, I don't know. I've never won one, so, you know, I don't have the secret answer to that.   
 I think you need to play your best tennis during the tournament, and that's it. That's the only way to win one. There's a lot of tough players out there just now. If you don't play well enough you're not going to win.  
  
  Q. John McEnroe said at one point, Andy is fighting himself as much as Wawrinka. Would that be a fair comment?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Maybe in the third and fourth sets. I was disappointed, you know, that I was struggling physically. You know, I tried to find a way to come back. Didn't quite do it.   
 Yeah, I was disappointed that, you know, I've not been really in that position for a long time, so... Maybe something to do with it.   
  
  Q. First two matches you played you were in top form, and there was not sign of a performance like this coming today really.   
 ANDY MURRAY: I didn't think it was a terrible performance today. I don't think I played terribly. Very different playing against a guy like in my second round than playing a guy like Wawrinka. He's a much better player.   
  
  Q. The mounting frustration that came to you in that match, including punching the strings, do you find yourself impossible to get out of that frustration? Does it overwhelm you? What is it?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't think that is the reason why I lost the match today. Yeah, it's not the reason I lost the match. It hasn't been the reason I've lost any matches in a very, very long time, you know, since I was 21 years old.   
 I think the last two, three years, it's not the reason why I've been losing matches.   
 But, you know...   
  
  Q. Specifically to this one, Andy, I'm talking about. A huge amount of frustration in you.   
 ANDY MURRAY: In the third and fourth sets I said, yeah, I was struggling physically and I got frustrated with that. But I haven't been in that position for a very long time. You know, maybe I felt like my chance of doing well here was slipping away.   
 I've worked very hard to give myself a chance of winning tournaments. You know, when I was struggling physically, I got disappointed.   
 But, I'm sorry, that happens. I think it happens to everyone in life at different points. I just, yeah, struggled in the third and fourth sets today. That's it.  
  
  Q. Any reason why? Can you put your finger on it?   
 ANDY MURRAY: I have no idea. I don't know. I've come off the court 20 minutes ago. I haven't really thought about why.   
 But, uhm, I lost the match to a better player today. That's it.   
  
  Q. Is it doubly frustrating given that you've found your form again and played well in the American tournaments?  
 ANDY MURRAY: It's frustrating, regardless whether you're playing well or not, to lose in a slam. But, you know, that's it. I would have liked to have done better here, but I didn't.   
 But, you know, it's been a long, long trip for me. Been away a long time. I look forward to getting home, resting, and thinking about what I'm going to need to do to improve.   
 But, you know, this summer overall, you know, I played some great tennis again. You know, I'm just disappointed I didn't play my greatest tennis here.   
  
  Q. This is the last major of the year. How would you assess your season through now?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, I played great tennis in Australia. I played very well in Wimbledon. You know, like I said, the Masters Series this summer went very well. I was poor from the Australian Open till about the French/Wimbledon time.   
 But I've had two very good majors and two where I haven't been so good. But I've lost to Roger, who's probably the best ever. I lost to Rafa, who I think will be the second best, if not the best, ever. You know, Berdych, who played great tennis this year.   
 And, you know, today was a match I probably should have won. The one in the majors that I lost that I probably should have won. So I'm disappointed.   
  
  Q. When you said you haven't felt like this for a long time, are you saying that you felt as fatigued in the third and fourth sets like perhaps three or four years ago before you got super fit?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I still feel like I'm super fit. I just didn't feel great. You know, there was a lot of things that I was feeling on the court. But, yeah, I just haven't felt that way for a few years now.   
 So I'm going to have to go look at why that was the case and try and get better.   
  
  Q. What was and wasn't working for you on the court today?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, the first two sets were very close, and the third and fourth sets he was serving better than me probably.   
  
  Q. Does it put any doubt in your mind about the future, about cracking it, getting the big one in the bag?   
 ANDY MURRAY: I have no idea of whether I'll win a Grand Slam or not. You know, I want to. But, you know, I mean, if I never win one, then what? If I give a hundred percent, try my best, physically work as hard as I can, practice as much as I can, then that's all I can do, you know.   
 It's something I would love to do. It's a very difficult thing. But, uhm, I don't know. I don't know if I'll win a Grand Slam or not. But I'll give it my best shot.   
  
  Q. Do you have the impression that Wawrinka was more aggressive today than usually when you played him?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Uhm, he always plays aggressive tennis. Very, very fast conditions on that court, very quick. So, you know, maybe there were more winners and more aces, a lot shorter points, because of that.   
 But I don't know whether he's playing more aggressive or not than normal.  
  
  Q. You played Sam earlier this summer. How would you analyze the next round?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, it will be a tough match. They're both serving well. I would say Stan's probably a little bit more consistent from the back of the court, maybe moves a bit better.   
 But Sam serves well. He's a tough guy to beat.   
  
  Q. You mentioned the coaching situation before the start of the tournament. Does this in any way accelerate the search?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, no. You got to be patient. You know, I was getting asked five, six days ago, You're playing great tennis; will you think about going without a coach? It's based on one match. I'm not going to panic and hire someone to try and make things better.   
 So, no. I'm going to take my time. I'm going to go home, have a rest - 'cause I need it - and see what I decide to do after that.   
  
  Q. Is this something then that you feel you have to sort out personally yourself, the situation, rather than something a coach could help you sort out? Is this something that needs to be sorted out with you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't understand the question.   
  
  Q. You said dealing with the situation now, you haven't felt like this for a while; you have to work out why you're in this situation. Is that something that can only come from you, or can a third party help?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I'll speak to all the guys I work with and see what's gone well this year, what hasn't gone so well. You know, it's one match. I wish I'd played better. But I'm not gonna panic and start trying to analyze everything that's going on, because I've been pretty much injury-free the whole year. Physically I felt good the whole year. You know, I played some of my best tennis in two of the majors this year.   
 So, you know, I want to improve and get better. I'm obviously going to look for a coach and people that are gonna help me to do that. But, you know, I'm happy with the guys that I work with just now. They're all very, very good at what they do. So I'm not gonna start changing everything.   
 I'm still looking for a coach. That's it.   
  
  Q. I know it's right after the match, but how hard is this one to take for you?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I'm very disappointed, obviously. But, no, I think I've been more disappointed, you know. In other Grand Slams, when you get closer to winning the tournament, I think it becomes a lot harder to take.   
 But, no, I'm very disappointed. You know, that's it.   
  
  Q. Stan often struggles against the top guys mentally. Do you think he changed something there?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No. But he played a very good match. You know, I would have liked to have been able to put a little bit more pressure towards the end of the third and fourth sets, but I didn't manage to do that.   
 So you need to make someone feel nervous towards the end of the match, and I wasn't able to do that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT