U.S. OPEN
August 28, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Have you recovered from the heat of Cincinnati? Physically are you okay now?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I feel fine. I had a couple of days off, and then, yeah, I started training again on Monday. Obviously the weather wasn't good for a few days, so didn't hit that much. I feel fine physically. 

 Q. Mentally how do you feel coming into one of your favorite, if not "the" favorite tournament of the year? Are you in good spirits given the great form you had in Toronto?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it definitely helped. It was good for the confidence, and I always enjoy playing here. I mean, New York is obviously a fun city to come to. I have been here a week now, and I feel good.

 Q. How would you rate your own prospects for the title? Obviously you have a couple of Grand Slam final appearances here. What have you learned from those that would possibly make the difference to going on and winning one?
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I think there is very small differences. Nothing drastic has to change. I just need to play my best tennis for the whole two weeks, and hopefully I can do that here. 

 Q. Are you concerned at all about the weather forecast for pretty hot temperatures again early part of this week?
 ANDY MURRAY: No. The hotter the better. (Laughter.)
 I spend a lot of time training in Miami to get used to the conditions, so I don't mind what heat it is. 

 Q. How are you feeling with the coaching situation now? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I feel fine. I have had a few weeks on my own. I have Alex Corretja with me this week, and then I will decide what I'm going to do after the tournament is finished.

 Q. When it comes down to formulating a game plan, will you sit down with Alex and talk about that, or will that be just solely down to you?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, don't speak to him about tactics and what I'm going to do. I guess the game style you play comes down to how you're feeling on the court.
 But, yeah, I will definitely speak to him about it, otherwise wouldn't be much use in him being here. He's helped me a lot the last two-and-a-half years, so I'm hoping he will help me again here.

 Q. There has been a little bit of discussion about what's faster, Centre Court at Wimbledon or Ashe Stadium here? I was wondering if you can weigh in on that, taking into account the ball, surface. 
 ANDY MURRAY: It is quick here. I think Wimbledon is faster. The balls are slower at Wimbledon, but the court itself is definitely quicker. Obviously the heat here can make the court fast, as well. 
 But I'm practicing on Ashe tomorrow for the first time, so I will have a better idea after that.

 Q. How swirling is the wind out there?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's tough. Ashe during the day sessions is normally pretty difficult.

 Q. What goes through your mind when you hear people talk about Roger Federer being on the downside of his career, maybe even almost done?
 ANDY MURRAY: What do I feel? 

 Q. What goes through your mind when you hear that?
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't really think -- I don't really think about it much. I think from a player's point of view, he's still obviously one of the best players in the world, for sure. When the big tournaments come around, he's always one of the big favorites to win.
 Yeah, that's kind of what goes through my head. I think it's pretty poor judgment if that's what you think.

 Q. Have you seen the video that's kind of the rage on the Internet where he knocks a couple of cups... 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I saw it.

 Q. What was your reaction to it, and what do you think of its authenticity? 
 ANDY MURRAY: You think it was real? (Smiling.) Is that right? (Laughter.) No, I like the advert. It was good fun. There's not a chance it's real, though. 

 Q. He revealed this morning that Paul Annacone is now part of his team going forward. Paul's never actually coached you, but you've been around him in Davis Cup situations. What do you think he can bring to Roger's game?
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, his game style and the guys he's coached before would suggest that, you know, he likes working with players that come forward, you know, and that was his game style himself. So I'm sure that was the one thing that he could definitely help with. 
 I've never done any coaching with him on court. I've just spent time with him, and he's a really good guy.

 Q. Is it encouraging Bjørn Borg saying he thinks you can win this tournament?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's nice to hear. It's down to me when I'm on the court, you know, to perform.
 Yeah, I mean, I hope I can win it. 

 Q. How much do you look at your past performances at the Open, if at all, in preparation for this one? And have you learned anything from looking at those past performances?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, I mean, after last year, you know, I had quite a long, hard think about, you know, how I wanted to feel going into Slams. You know, I came in here with a wrist problem, struggled with it, but didn't play any of the tournaments in Asia. 
 I took a long break after Davis Cup. You know, had sort of like tendinitis in my wrist maybe from playing too much, and I wanted to make sure that this year the Slams were my priority and that I felt, you know, my best going into them. 
 So that definitely changed after last year.

 Q. Now you're right up there and, you know, you've beaten Nadal and Federer back to back. Do you ever think back to that day out there when you won the boys title? Was that kind of a formative day in your career?
 ANDY MURRAY: I haven't thought about that too much. But it was, yeah, it was nice. I mean, in terms of my junior career, it was by far the best achievement I had, and, yeah, it was the most fun as well, you know, winning here. I've said always I love playing here. I really, really enjoyed it. So to win the juniors was great.
 But it's a whole different ballgame trying to win the seniors, that's for sure.

 Q. Does it seem a really long time ago now, or does it seem like last week?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, it seems a long time ago. It's been what, five, six years? Yeah, a lot's happened since then.

 Q. Could you speak a little bit about your first-round opponent? I believe you said you have known him from the junior ranks. Could you speak a bit more about his style of play or the kind of firm test he's gonna provide for you?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I've known him since he was like 13, 14. He's a good player. He has had good wins this year. He's talented. Has quite a big game. 
 Yeah, it's going to be difficult, as all matches in the Slams are. I need to make sure I'm switched on from the start. 

 Q. Do you feel any more pressure to be aggressive on court given that those tactics worked pretty well in Toronto for you?
 ANDY MURRAY: No extra pressure. I just need to play the game style that wins me the matches here. If I have to play ultra-defensive in any of my matches, I'll play that way. If I have to play very aggressive, then I'll do that. 
 It's just about winning. It's not about you have to adapt during matches and different situations, different opponents. I'll play the way that I think is going to win me the match.

 Q. Which style do you enjoy the most?
 ANDY MURRAY: I just enjoy playing tennis. There's not one style in particular. I like playing against Rafa and Roger the most. Out of the players, I think it's the most challenging, the most fun matches to play.
 But in terms of game styles, I like winning. I don't like losing. So I'll play whichever way I need to to win. 

 Q. Do you have any names in mind for a coach? And obviously if you would rather not say that, could you speak about the kind of qualities you're looking for? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Actually, honestly I haven't really thought about it much. I'm going to sit down and think a lot about it when the tournament is done here. I don't want to think about who I might work with, and, you know, what I'm going to do before, you know, such a big tournament and obviously quite a big period of the year for me. 
 Yeah, I mean, I'll consider a lot of different options and have to think about what sort of structure I want and how many weeks I want to travel, and, you know, if I'm going to work, you know, with a couple of coaches. If I keep working with Alex or not, I haven't decided yet. I will wait and see after the tournament. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT