WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 19, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/E. Gulbis
  4-6, 6-3, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You look exhausted after your last two matches. Do you have a concern for your next match in terms of physical conditioning?   
 ANDY MURRAY: In terms of physical conditioning, I don't think that's the problem. I think the conditions are tough here. I mean, I played seven matches in nine days, every one of them between 12:00 and 3:00, you know, which is obviously when it's at its warmest.  
 I think everybody would be feeling like that in my position. Obviously I played a couple of long ones; this one was especially long. I'm hoping I'll get to play a later match tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Can you request that?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. I requested to play later, yeah.  
  
  Q. Any indication they will give that to you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Depends if Fish loses his doubles. If he wins, they said they'll probably put me on first again. If he loses, then they might put me on later.  
  
  Q. If that continues through the week, could that affect you going into the Open?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I hope -- I mean, a week should be enough obviously to recover. But, yeah, it just makes it a bit harder this tournament to I guess play, you know, your best tennis. You know, spending a lot of time after the matches making sure you recover as best as possible and just hope the next day you feel good.   
 Tomorrow it could be nice and cold. We don't know, so have to wait and see.  
  
  Q. What do you do to recover from matches like this?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I had an ice bath yesterday evening. I'll probably have another one this evening. Massage, stretching, and then try and drink and eat as much as possible.   
 Today I was struggling. I felt a bit dehydrated on the court, which isn't really acceptable. You should make sure you've already drunk enough before you go on.  
 So I'll try and drink as much as possible this evening.  
  
  Q. What was your thinking about ratcheting your serve down a little bit?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I was struggling a little bit physically and I wasn't really pushing out to my serve that well. So I started making as many first serves as possible, and he actually struggled when I slowed it down into his body. He missed quite a few returns.   
 When I was serving well, you know, going for big serves, he was actually returning very well. Just slowed it down a little bit. That's what you have to do against a player like him sometimes. When he's sort of seeing the ball well and you're giving him pace, he can generate a lot himself.   
 When I slowed it to down, he struggled.  
  
  Q. Was it after you saw the stats go up on the board?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. The first set I didn't serve that well. I don't know what the stats were, you know, but it's not -- I mean, I've played many matches where I served in the 40% mark and won a lot.   
 You know, but today the reason I slowed it down is because even when the first serve was going in, he was dealing with it very well. That's was why I slowed it down.   
  
  Q. You play great without a coach. Can you compare a little bit what's the main difference playing with and without a coach?   
 ANDY MURRAY: There's not really a huge difference. I mean, I've got, you know, the same physio and fitness trainer that I have all of the tournaments. I have my friend here and my mum, her helping with the tactics and watching my opponents play.  
 So I mean, the coaching bit, I mean, most of the work that you do with coaches are done in the off weeks, like next week before the US Open where you'll practice certain things and set up the way you're gonna prepare for the US Open.   
 I think that's when a coach is most important. I haven't really had too many weeks on my own since, so I haven't felt too much of a difference.  
  
  Q. Obviously you won the tiebreak today. Before today's match, your tiebreak record is 5-11. What's your take on that?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, last year or a few years ago I had a very good tiebreak record. You know, thing is, it can be a bit of a shootout. It's very up and down. It depends if you serve well or play some good points, you know, and sometimes it comes down to a little bit of luck.   
 Today I played a good tiebreak; sometimes you don't. That's why, you know, everyone, all players, try and break serve, to stop from going to a tiebreak, because there's a bit of a -- it's a bit of a shootout.  
  
  Q. You next play Mardy Fish, and the series is tied 3-3. He's beaten you the last two matches. What do you need to do to win?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I need to play well. You know, last couple of times I played him I was struggling pretty badly and not playing particularly well.   
 The couple of times before that when I played him I played very well. Quite like the matchup. I've played well against him. So if I play like I have been the last couple of weeks, um, you know, and play a smart match, I'll give myself a good chance of winning.  
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about your photo shoot in Rome, I think. It's much tougher than hitting tennis balls?   
 ANDY MURRAY: It wasn't actually. I really, really enjoyed it. Mario Testino, the photographer, was really good. I did it at my house, so it was really relaxing. Pretty fun thing to do before -- did it five days before Wimbledon.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like in the second set anything kind of changed for you to harness momentum after coming out with the loss in the first set?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I just kind of hung in. I didn't play particularly well throughout the match until actually the tiebreak at the end. I played a good tiebreaker, and then I just hung in and just tried to make as many balls and possible. That was it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT