WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 18, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Chardy
  6-3, 6-7, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Could you talk us through the second set. Seemed to maybe lose a bit of concentration perhaps.  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I don't know. I think he started playing a lot better. I mean, if you look at sort of the winners to unforced errors ratio in the first set and then the end of the second set, he started going for everything, made a lot of balls, and I was hitting the ball too short.   
 You know, he's a player that doesn't give a whole a lot of rhythm. And, you know, when he started making some balls, I was a little bit uncomfortable. It was very quick conditions out there; very different to Toronto. I didn't really adjust that well to it when I had to hit a lot of balls.   
 But third set, you know, I had to step up a little bit, and I managed to.   
  
  Q. When you say uncomfortable, physically uncomfortable? Was there something bothering you?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No, uncomfortable in terms of the way you're feeling on the court. You know, it can be difficult. You don't have a whole lot of time to get used to the conditions here. They're very different. The court's much faster than Toronto and the balls are moving a lot quicker.  
 So, you know, when you are feeling like that, it's kind of difficult to really go for your shots a lot. But I knew I had to in the third set, and played a lot better.   
  
  Q. The court conditions you mentioned here are much quicker here compared to Toronto. What is it like it New York in comparison to these two?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Probably in the middle of the two, I would have said. The ball I think probably bounces a bit higher in New York.   
 But, yeah, I mean, at least there you get a little bit more time to get used to them.  
  
  Q. Which is your preference of the three?   
 ANDY MURRAY: I like New York probably. It's good. But I've obviously played well in Canada. I've played well in all the tournaments, so I do like the hardcourts.  
 But, yeah, slightly slower in New York, I think.   
  
  Q. How long does it take you before you start feeling comfortable on a different surface?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, a match like that is a good, a good one to play. Spent a lot of time out on the court, and I know I was feeling at the end of the second set and what I needed to do in the third set.   
 You know, you need to make sure your footwork is spot on here, because the ball is coming through a lot quicker. So I need to be in the right position a lot earlier, you know, which I was doing at the end.  
 But, yeah, I think you just have to play matches, spend time on the courts to get used to them.   
  
  Q. Is a player like that particularly hard to find your rhythm against, somebody who's playing that sort of ultra-aggressive?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's more so when, you know, you haven't spent much time on the court. So, you know, he made a lot of mistakes in the first set, you know, and didn't really have any chance on my serve. When he went behind in the second set, he started going for big shots and was making them.   
 Yeah, it can be difficult to get your rhythm. It's very different to playing someone like Nadal who you play a lot of 10-, 15-shot rallies; whereas today a lot of sort of 4- 5-shot rallies. It's not that easy to get into the rhythm.  
  
  Q. You've got Gulbis next. How do you see that one?  
 ANDY MURRAY: A little bit similar to today. He's got a big game, big serve, and this year he's been playing his best tennis so far. So it's gonna be a difficult match. I'll need to return well against him.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT