ROGERS CUP MEN
August 13, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/D. Nalbandian
  6-2, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Pleased with that?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was very good. I served well today and got the first good hits in in a lot of the rallies so I was able to dictate a lot of the points, yeah. When he did have a chance to get back into the first set 3-2, I served a really big ace. Yeah, it was a very good performance.  
  
  Q. Was the best part of that the fact you really sat on him when you got a significant advantage, kept him down?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, I mean, obviously yesterday was very different. The conditions were a little bit nicer today. It wasn't so windy, but, you know, when I serve that well it's, you know, it's a lot easier. You make it a lot easier for yourself.  
 You know, I didn't give him that many looks at second serves on any tight points and came up with big first serves when I needed them. That definitely helped.  
  
  Q. Movement as you wanted it?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I moved good. You know, when I was getting to the balls, I was defending with better length, better depth, so it was a lot harder for him to dictate attack. So, yeah, movement was good and the defending was good, as well.  
  
  Q. What does this do for your confidence, seeing that you beat a guy that's been on such a hot streak and someone you never beat before?  
 ANDY MURRAY: It's very good. You know, it was one of the best matches I've played this year, probably. You know, I played very well in Australia, and then for a few months after that I didn't play particularly well.  
 You know, but today, some of my matches at Wimbledon, Australia was the best I played this year, so definitely gives me confidence for the rest of the tournament, and, you know, the rest of the U.S. stretch.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised at just how easy you made it look?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I was expecting it to be a very tough match, and it wasn't. You know, when you're out there, you're not really thinking whether it's comfortable or the match is -- well, you're not thinking about how easy the scoreline is or not, because he has been, over the last few years, one of the best at coming back from tough situations.   
 So, you know, the scoreline would suggest that it was very easy, but, you know, if you look in the first set especially, a lot of close games, a lot of 30-All points, a lot of deuce points, long games, and I just managed to hang on.  
  
  Q. Do you think about the ranking situation at the moment, that you may drop down to No. 5 if you don't get to the final? Does that fit into your thinking at all?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, because, you know, the ranking is, you know, it kind of just reflects how -- because, I mean, it's I think like looking at the race. I used to like the race, because you could see exactly where you were each year.   
 And it's kind of, because it's such a long season, you're not going to play your best at the same stages each year, and you have to kind of look and judge the year as a whole. So, you know, it kind of, when it comes down to the rankings, it's most important at the end of the year where you finish up, and, you know, probably be going in the right direction in that respect this week, and, you know, still try and move my ranking up a little bit.  
  
  Q. I read today that for the 2012 Olympics at Wimbledon they're going to not enforce the all-white rule. For somebody who is from that neck of the woods and plays at Wimbledon, what's your opinion on that? Should they be wearing all whites during the Olympics at the All England Club?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I think the rules -- I don't know if that is because of the rules of the Olympics or not. You know, I think -- well, when I played, anyway, all of the players were wearing their national colors in all of the sports, so, no, I mean, it fits with the Olympics.   
 I think the Olympics is, without question, "the" biggest sporting event in the world, and everyone's obviously there and proud to represent their country, so I think, yeah, everyone should wear their national colors.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT