ROGERS CUP MEN
August 12, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/G. Monfils
  6-2, 0-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You said you wanted to improve some things on yesterday. Did you feel that you did, your movement and so on?  
 ANDY MURRAY: First set, start of the match, I played really, really well, and in patches in the third set was very good.  
 But, yeah, I was just a bit up and down but some good rallies. He's a tough guy to play against. I was happy.   
  
  Q. It was up and down, is that because he's an unpredictable guy?  
 ANDY MURRAY: A bit of everything. I shouldn't get distracted, you know, by what your opponent is doing.   
 You know, when -- I don't know. Sometimes it happens. You just got to try and refocus, and I managed to do that in the third.  
  
  Q. How satisfying to come back as strong as you did from a pretty, by your standards, disastrous second set to finish off strongly in the third?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was good. You know, it's happened a few times, but I've always managed to turn it around in the end. You know, the start of that third set was important. You know, I was dictating a lot of the points in the first set and let him back in in the second and needed to make sure I started dictating again. And I came forward, came to the net a little bit more in the third and it helped.  
  
  Q. When you're out there without a coach, to whom do you turn? Is it yourself? Is it self-motivating? Is it a kind of different dynamic for you just at the moment?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was definitely a bit different. The guys in my box have been at most of my matches for the last three years, so, you know, it's nice to look over to them after most points, and that helps you calm down a little bit.  
 But, yeah, it's definitely different not having a coach.  
  
  Q. What about Nalbandian next, one of the form guys on the tour, 11-match unbeaten streak, just won a tournament?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, he's very tough. You know, I obviously played him at Wimbledon the first year I played there and lost in five sets, and then I played against him after -- I won the tournament in Madrid and St. Petersburg, and then I played him in Paris and I was pretty tired by then, but he's a very, very good player, on his day, one of the best in the world and it's gonna be tough.  
  
  Q. What goes through your mind during a set like that second one and then after it's over?  
 ANDY MURRAY: You just move on from it. It's not something you sort of dwell on. It obviously wasn't good, but, you know, I was -- it was difficult conditions out there, as well. You know, I just had to get back to playing my game like I did in the first set and obviously got up 4-1, a couple of breaks in the third, so you don't -- you know, that's the thing with tennis. At the end of the set, you can kind of regroup and start again and I managed to do that.  
  
  Q. How long would you last if you landed on the court as many times as he did in that third set today?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I don't know. You know, he does it in a lot of matches, and he has had a few injuries the last couple of years, and it's -- I mean, it's fun to watch. I'm sure it can be tough to concentrate sometimes against it, and, yeah, he's just -- you know, he's very entertaining to watch, but diving on a hardcourt is not -- unless it's sort of Grand Slam final, you know, I don't know if it's worth the risk.  
  
  Q. That's not in your repertoire except for maybe a Grand Slam final?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I won't be doing it any time soon.   
  
  Q. You mentioned that you were a bit maybe sluggish moving around the court yesterday. Seemed like you were running around fine today. Were you happy with how you were moving around in that aspect?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I moved better today, but at the start of the match especially, chased a lot of balls down, and a lot of long rallies, good rallies. Both of us did quite a bit of running. So it was definitely, in that department, better than yesterday.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT