WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. NADAL/A. Murray
  6-4, 7-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Good evening, everyone. Andy for you. 

 Q. Your thoughts on that?
 ANDY MURRAY: Disappointed. You know, I had chances in all of the sets. You know, I haven't seen the stats, but I would guess it was the difference of maybe five or six points in the match. 
 Yeah, he just played better than me. But I'm disappointed because I had chances.

 Q. Did you feel you got into the rhythm of your own game during the match?
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, yeah. But, I mean, you're not going to be able to play every single point on your terms against the best player in the world, one of the best players ever. You can't. 
 You know, you're going to need to, you know, go through periods in the match where he can be dictating, and there's periods in the match where, you know, I was dictating. 
 You know, it was tough. But, yeah, I didn't feel like I wasn't in a rhythm. I won a lot of points off my serve. You know, until the end of the match, he didn't have a breakpoint until the last couple of games. Was obviously doing something right.

 Q. When he hit that the double-fault in the tiebreaker, I mean, it as a bit of a shocker. Did it throw you off? 
 ANDY MURRAY: No, not at all. I mean, not if you look at the next point he played. No, it didn't at all. He played a really good point. He hit a big forehand. Hit a good pass. He hit a great angle volley on the next point. Hit a let cord passing shot on the next one. 
 You know, there's nothing you can do about it.

 Q. With all that was at stake today, how does this compare to what could have been for you in this tournament?
 ANDY MURRAY: I'm annoyed I lost this match. There's a great player in the final, and the other half has just beaten the No. 1 player -- No. 2 in the world and No. 3 in the world in back-to-back matches pretty convincingly, as well. 
 I'm disappointed I didn't win today, because I wanted to reach my first final here. 

 Q. What was the game plan against him?
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, you know, to serve well, which I did for a majority of the match. And when you get the opportunity, to dictate the points. 
 You know, the one thing I didn't do particularly well today was return well. His serve is a lot harder to return than a lot of people think. A lot of slice, a lot of spin, and it's heavy. 
 I didn't return particularly well, but the rest of my game was good.

 Q. Was it also about targeting his backhand particularly?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, his backhand is good. He has a very good backhand. You know, his backhand's good. His serve's good. His forehand's good. His movement is good. He does everything really, really well. 
 You know, there's certain shots that, you know, you need to play to both sides, you know, to not let him get into a rhythm. 
 You know, like I say, I got myself in some good positions, and just couldn't quite take it.

 Q. Nadal played a stunning match. Is that any consolation now, or will it become one in the future?
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, I'm not coming here feeling like I played terrible. You know, I'm disappointed to have lost. You know, I didn't play a bad match at all. You know, I've had some good wins against Rafa where I played great tennis. 
 You know, it's not like I played badly. Yeah, he played great, and that was the difference.

 Q. Is that the best he's ever played against you?
 ANDY MURRAY: I have no idea. I mean, you know, a lot can depend on a few points. You know, but he's playing very, very well. He's obviously got a lot of confidence just now.

 Q. Who do you pick in the final, Rafael or Berdych?
 ANDY MURRAY: I think Rafa is the favorite. You know, he's the best player in the world. He hasn't lost here. He's played three finals in a row, or four finals in a row now. 
 But, you know, Berdych is a great player, too. If he plays well, like he has been the last couple of matches, it will be very tough.

 Q. Talk about the extra weight on your shoulders because of trying to win it for the home team here. 
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, there's a lot much pressure playing here. You know, it doesn't affect the outcome of the matches. It's not a valid excuse to make. I've played really well the whole tournament. I obviously want to win for myself. I want to win for the guys I work with. I want to win for, you know, the UK. 
 You know, a little bit more disappointing than other Grand Slams because this one is, you know, the biggest one of the year for me. And, uhm, yeah, it's tough.

 Q. What are you going to do now?
 ANDY MURRAY: I have no idea. I'll probably, yeah, go on holiday and stay away from the tennis court for a while.

 Q. When you look back at tennis tournaments as a whole, are you pleased taking this result out of it, that you're improving, heading in the right direction?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, a few weeks ago no one would have given me much of a hope of getting to the semis because I wasn't playing well. Then, you know, I played a good tournament. 
 But, yeah, right now I'm very disappointed at the match today. Yeah, I'll look back at the tournament as a whole in a few weeks as a good one, just not great. 

 Q. Does it strengthen your result to one day come back and win a slam, or does it spur you on in moments like this?
 ANDY MURRAY: I hope it does. In the past it has made me work harder. But, yeah, I'll have to wait and see. But I hope so.

 Q. After the Australian you found it difficult to sort of get back into it straightaway. Are you concerned it might happen again after this result?
 ANDY MURRAY: I have no idea. You know, just because it happened to me once, whether it was to do with the loss in Australia, whether it was, you know, other things going on, you know, you never know. 
 But, you know, I work hard, you know, and I hope it doesn't happen again. I've normally played well in the American hard court stretch after Wimbledon. Yeah, hopefully I'll play well again now.

 Q. In what ways, if any, has Nadal changed his game since you played him in Australia?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, there's no huge change. I mean, you know, he obviously missed a solid chunk of the year last year and a little bit at the beginning of this year. You know, he plays -- the more matches he plays, the better he plays. 
 I don't know, you know, if he hasn't played a lot, you know, he makes a few more mistakes maybe. But, no. He was playing great in Australia. He's playing great here. He's one of the greatest players ever, so he's always gonna play well. 

 Q. Is there a frustration factor out there when you play a lot of really good tennis and somehow it just keeps coming back?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, 'cause you go on the court expecting it. It's not a surprise. You know, I've always felt like, for me, it's been one of the best parts of my game is making my opponent play more balls, chasing everything down. It's just something that all of the, you know, best players tend to do. They'll make you play a lot of balls. 
 No, I played him, I don't know, over 10 times now, so nothing surprises me when I play against him. But I expect an incredibly tough match every time. 

 Q. I know you've only just come off court, but where does this one sit with your other disappointments?
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know. I'm very disappointed just now. I'm upset, you know, which is understandable. I have no idea. Yeah, just very disappointed.

 Q. You're good at opening up the court, playing far back. Is that a particularly tough strategy to pursue with him, given his skill set athletically?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, it has worked in matches I've played against him. It's worked very well. I've had some great matches with him. I've had obviously some tough losses, as well. 
 But, no, I mean, I think that, you know, I have my game style. I adapt to all of the guys that I play against. I'm sure the stats will say I came to the net more than I did in any of the other matches; I served and volleyed more than I did in any of the other matches; I was going for a little bit more. 
 That's how you have to play against him. Just didn't quite work. 

 Q. You again had great support today from fans who will be looking forward to you coming back next year. What will you say to them?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, the support was great the whole tournament. Every year I've played here the support's been great, yeah. Yeah, I'm disappointed for them, as well. You know, I obviously gave it my best. 
 But like I said earlier, I want to try and win the tournament. Yeah, I couldn't quite do it. But the support I've had, you know, the whole two weeks has been great. 

 Q. You had a couple of conversations with the chair. Were you unhappy about the time he was taking?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I wasn't unhappy with the time he was taking. I asked him once when we were changing balls, and that was it. I didn't complain once about him taking too much time. 

 Q. What did Rafael say to you after the match?
 ANDY MURRAY: He said, Bad luck. I just said, Good luck for the rest of the tournament. You know, that was it. 
 But, you know, I've said it for a few years. I love watching him play. He's my favorite player to watch. That's why I enjoy playing him so much. So I hope he wins.

 Q. If you could somehow go back and change one thing about the match, what would that be?
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, I think the second set, you know, it's difficult to pick out one thing. I had chances in the second set. I thought I played a little bit better tennis in the second set and didn't give him many chances on my serve. I created a few on his. Obviously, in the tiebreak, yeah. 

 Q. Is it annoying to have to wait so long to receive serve?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I don't care. He can take as long as he wants on any point. I love watching the guy play. No, I don't care. He can take as long as he wants. 

 Q. Coming off court, Rafa said he thought you'd win a slam and win one soon. What does that mean to you when someone you respect so much has got some faith in your ability?
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, yeah, it's nice. Nice obviously to hear. Uhm, doesn't make losing in one any easier. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT