WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Tsonga
  6-7, 7-6, 6-2, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Good evening everyone. Andy Murray.   
  
  Q. Just how tough was it out there today?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was very difficult. I mean, obviously the first couple of the sets were very close. And, uhm, yeah, I mean, he was going for huge shots and not giving me a rhythm.   
 It's very difficult to know exactly how to play when someone's, you know, just going for broke on everything. Just had to hang in and, yeah, managed to win that second-set tiebreak. I felt a lot better after that.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised you played so well in the first two sets?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I mean, I've played him before. I've seen him play many times. You know, he can play incredible tennis. You know, when he is playing like that, he's, you know, so difficult to beat, one of the best players in the world.   
 No, it didn't surprise me. But the thing that you have to do is you've got to try and stay tough. It's very difficult to play at that level and that sort of high-risk tennis for a whole match. Just managed to turn it around.  
  
  Q. What are your thoughts on the keys to playing well against Nadal?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, you need to serve well and you need to play great tennis. It's not, you know -- there's not one way to play against him. You don't want to leave the ball in the middle of the court to his forehand, because you'll do a lot of running.   
 But you've got to serve well and, you know, try and, you know, keep a good length and play well really, really, really well.  
  
  Q. How much have you seen of Nadal here this year and what have you made of him?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I've seen him play a little bit. Not that much. You know, we've been playing a lot of our matches -- we obviously play on the same day, and you're kind of focused on your match and obviously preparing for that.   
 Uhm, I saw a little bit of his match against Robin Haase and a little bit of his match against Petzschner. I followed his match with Petzschner. I saw a bit of that.   
 He's playing great. He's in the semifinals of a Grand Slam and he beat Soderling today, who's, well, playing the best tennis of his career. You know, he's a great player, too. So he's obviously playing very well.   
  
  Q. Do you feel different coming into this semifinal than you did last year?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, not really. You know, last year I obviously played well going into the semi, and it's a completely different match.   
 So in that respect, you know, it's very different tennis to how you play against Roddick and how the matches against Roddick go. Not feeling any different.  
  
  Q. Do you take any sort of psychological edge after beating him in Australia?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I think, you know, he would definitely be the favorite for the match, you know, with his results here the last few years.   
 You know, he obviously didn't get a chance to defend his title last year, but he's played three finals in a row and now he's in the semis here.   
 You know, he's obviously a very tough player on any surface, but he plays great tennis here. No, I mean, psychologically I need to believe that I can win the match. That's the most important thing.   
  
  Q. Your odds are now 11-5 to win Wimbledon, the shortest priced Brit since Fred Perry.   
 ANDY MURRAY: That means nothing at all - at all. It's totally irrelevant, the odds. Totally irrelevant.   
  
  Q. The beard seems to be doing the trick. Will you keep it on till the end of the tournament?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I have no idea. Might shave tonight. Might shave tomorrow. Might leave it till the end of the tournament.  
  
  Q. Not affecting your aerodynamics or anything?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I hope not, no.   
  
  Q. Ben Stiller was in the crowd today. I know said in the past you like Will Ferrell's movies. I think Ben Still is in that genre as well.  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, he's very, very funny. Actually watched Dodgeball quite a few times in -- where was I? It was in Madrid this year. And actually, had extras as well. Watched the episode where he's in that quite a few times.   
 Yeah, he's a very, very funny guy.  
  
  Q. What would it mean to you to win this title?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, it would obviously be incredible. You know, winning a Grand Slam is obviously why you play the game. You know, obviously if it was here, to win the first one would make it, you know, extra special.   
 But, yeah, I'm a long, long way from doing that. Six sets away, and have to beat the No. 1 in the world if I even want to have a chance of doing that. So it's a long way.  
  
  Q. The second-set tiebreak today, at 5-All when he left that backhand return, was that more surprise or relief on your part? Maybe you thought that was going to be your day then?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, you're not really thinking like that at that stage of the match. You're kind of focusing on trying to win the next point.   
 Uhm, you know, I was obviously surprised that he left it, but I did really well to get a racquet on the serve. It was a huge serve up the T, and just managed to get it back.   
 Uhm, yeah, it happens. People make some misjudgments sometimes. I managed to win the next point and change the match.   
  
  Q. How important was the support from the home crowd for you today?  
 ANDY MURRAY: It's always important. It's one of the main reasons why, you know, the British guys play - well, Tim obviously played very well here - and one of the reasons I played well the last few years.   
 Yeah, it gives you a lift. It helps, you know, when you're in tough situations, tough moments, when the crowd get behind you. Like in every other sport, having home advantage is very important.   
  
  Q. You revealed late on Monday night that you had had many messages of support and well wishes, one from David Beckham. Have you had any other notable messages?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No, not really. No. I've had quite a few. But no, not really.   
  
  Q. How would you describe - for people who aren't from this country - what the whole atmosphere is like with the history that goes back to Fred Perry since the last champion?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, it's obviously been a huge, huge wait for us, and it's still obviously going on now. I don't know how it affects the atmosphere on the court.   
 But the crowd, yeah, I mean, obviously would love to see a British player win Wimbledon. It's something that's kind of joked about amongst players and people within tennis about how long it's been since someone British has won at Wimbledon.   
 I don't know how it affects the atmosphere in the matches or not. It's something that you just, yeah, learn to deal with. It doesn't affect the way that I play. It's not something that you're thinking about when you're on the court at all.  
  
  Q. How have you learned to deal with it?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Just by playing here and playing in big matches, you know, how to put -- yeah, you just learn how to put, you know, everything to the back of your mind.   
 I think it's either something you can do or you can't. I don't think you can be taught how to do it. I think it's something that you're either able to do or you can't.   
 I've been lucky enough the last few years to not let that affect me.   
  
  Q. In his post-match interview, Jo Tsonga is backing you to win the Championships. Can you talk about what he said to you at the net and what that means to you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: It's obviously nice to hear that from the other players. Yeah, he said it would be a pleasure to see me win the tournament. Sort of like, yeah, Good luck from me.   
 Yeah, I mean, you know, he's been around for quite a long time at the top of the game. He's played some big matches and had good runs in the Grand Slams, so he knows what it takes to get to the latter stages. You know, it's nice to hear that from him.   
  
  Q. What did you make of Federer's shock defeat? Given he's beaten you in your two Grand Slam finals, do you feel his exit has improved your chances?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know if it's improved my chance or not. You never know what's going to happen on any given day in this sport.   
 But, yeah, it was surprising. But, you know, Berdych is a great player. You know, if he plays his best tennis, he can, yeah, beat the best guys. He's won against Rafa a few times; he's obviously beaten Roger a couple of times now; and I obviously lost to him at the French Open a few weeks ago.   
 You know, doesn't look like such a terrible result anymore.   
  
  Q. Were you quite pleased in a way that Federer is out?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I don't care whether he's in and out of the tournament. Doesn't affect me unless I win the next round. So, you know, I'm playing the No. 1 player in the world in the next round, so it would be a bit silly for me to look past him in any way.   
  
  Q. Your plans for the next 24 hours? What are you going to do to stay relaxed ahead of Friday's match?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Just the usual: go home tonight, watch a bit of TV. Yeah, you don't do anything. It's pretty boring, but you just do the same thing. I'll come in tomorrow, practice around 1:00 for an hour, hour and a half, and that's it. Take the dog on a walk.   
 Just, yeah, you don't do anything special. You don't do anything different. You just have to, yeah, be as calm as possible. That's what I'll try and do.  
  
  Q. How is Maggie? We heard she's not very well.   
 ANDY MURRAY: She's fine now.   
  
  Q. Rafa was saying how the conditions are a bit like clay because it's so dry out there. Do you think that could be an advantage for him?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I definitely wouldn't describe the courts here as similar to clay. More like a hard court because the ball's bouncing. The courts are very firm, so the ball's bouncing pretty high. There's not too many bad bounces.   
 Yeah, I think it's a pretty fair court for both of us. And, yeah, hopefully, you know, I can play well, because when I have played him on hard courts before, I've always felt like I've had chances against him. Had some good wins against him on the hard courts. If I serve well and play like I have been, I've got a chance.  
  
  Q. You have family and friends watching you. Any more people coming down from home?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Not that I'm aware of. I haven't really spoken to anyone since I got off the court. I guess I'll find out tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You played so many times on Centre Court. What do you like the most about it?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Uhm, I like the atmosphere there. It's different to the US Open. I love playing there, as well. You know, the Australian Open center court is a great court, as well.   
 But the atmosphere here for me is a bit different because obviously the support is all with you. I think, as well, with the roof going in, a lot of the court is kind of -- a lot of the crowd is kind of covered, as well. So I think the noise stays in even better now.   
 But, yeah, I mean, there's not one thing in particular. I just, uhm, really like the atmosphere. And obviously having the crowd with you helps.  
  
  Q. Do you think the crowd has a strong knowledge and following of the ebbs and flows of the match? Does that in any way help you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I think the crowds at Wimbledon are, yeah, pretty knowledgeable. You know, they have watched a few of Tim's, you know, long, yeah, up-and-down matches over the years.   
 So, yeah, I'm sure they're used to supporting. I think they understand well when you need the support. Yeah, they do a good job.   
  
  Q. Would it be different for you psychologically, because obviously this time you'll be going into the semifinals as the underdog, whereas last year you were the favorite? So how different is that?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, like I said, it's totally irrelevant what everybody else thinks, because on the day, yeah, you're playing against Rafa, not against -- you're not playing against the bookies' odds or anything like that. You're just playing against him. It's not going to change a whole lot.   
 But, I mean, yeah, I know it's going to be an incredibly difficult match to win, but one I believe I can if I play well.   
  
  Q. Have you spoken to Tim? Do you think he'll have any words of advice for a semifinal again?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I get 'good luck' texts from him all the time. I mean, I think everybody deals with those situations differently. I'm sure if I wanted advice I'd be able to call Tim, you know, as soon as I'm done here and speak to him about it. He's always been very good to me.   
 But I've got the guys around me that I work with that I trust a lot. You know, I'll chat to them about it, about the match, and everything that will be going on with it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT