WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/G. Simon
  6-1, 6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Guess you couldn't have hoped for a better first week, could you?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, it was really good. You know, didn't lose a set. Yeah, I didn't lose my serve since, you know, second service game of the first match. So it's been good. 
 Tonight was tough 'cause obviously getting pretty dark towards the end. You know, if I hadn't managed to close out in that third set, would have had to have gone off, waited for the roof to go on. So a little bit tentative around 3-All, but played really well.

 Q. Was there a danger of almost rushing it?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I wasn't actually rushing. It was almost like I knew I obviously wanted to finish the match, but I wasn't rushing. It does make you a little bit more, yeah, nervous. Yeah, you want to kind of get it done. But it wasn't like I was, you know, going for stupid shots. I maybe just got a little bit tentative. 
 But, you know, I managed to get the break in the end, I was creating a lot of chances, still on my serve wasn't giving him many opportunities, so it was good.

 Q. That court that you're so successful on it, you're so dominant, how much do you think that gives you an edge, a court you like, crowd behind you?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it's a great court to play on. Everybody will tell you that. Obviously, the more you play on it, you get used to the speed of the court. 
 You know, I've played -- all three of my matches have been at different times. You know, and it does change the way the court plays. You know, it gets -- you know, when the sun goes down, it gets a little bit slippy and it slows down obviously. 
 I played at 1:00 the other day. It was really quick. So it's a court that I love playing on and I've had the chance the first week to play in all different sorts of times and conditions and come through it well.

 Q. Are you getting the same sort of feeling now that you did at the Australian Open, building up to what was a terrific tournament in many respects?
 ANDY MURRAY: I'm not sure. Yeah, I mean, like I said, it's been a really good start. You know, the Australian Open, I played very well from the first match there. But, you know, it's tough -- it's kind of tough to compare. It's kind of different feelings going into both tournaments. 
 In terms of the way this week's gone, it's been great. Try and build on that next week.

 Q. What are your thoughts on playing Sam on Monday?
 ANDY MURRAY: It will be a tough match. He's obviously won Queen's. You know, he's a very good player. He's got a big serve, bigger than the guys that I've played so far, slightly more unpredictable game. Rallies will probably be a little bit shorter. 
 But, you know, I've played well against him in the past, someone I've had good success against. Hopefully I can get another good result on Monday. 

 Q. Isner and the Australian Open, your game plan was excellent there. I know it won't be the same game plan, but it will be a similar game plan when you play Sam?
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, there are certain things that obviously against big guys you have to try and do. You want to keep them on the move as much as possible. 
 But, you know, Isner's serve is probably the best shot in tennis. You know, Sam's obviously got a very good serve, you know, serves a lot of aces. But Isner's serve I would say is better. 
 But, yeah, I mean, there's certain things you need to do against all big guys, and Monday won't be any different.

 Q. That point in the seventh game of the third set when you both ended up on the floor, do you still get a thrill after all these years from moments like that?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, of course. I mean, any time you play a great point -- you know, there's quite a lot of long rallies today, and that was probably the best shot that I played. And, yeah, definitely still enjoy any time you play a good point or a great shot. 

 Q. Do you remember playing Sam Querrey in the US Open juniors in 2004? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. I mean, I remember playing against him. I don't remember too much about the match. But, uhm, yeah, that was the first time I'd seen him play. And both of us, you know, have gone on to do very well in the senior game. 
 I think it was in the quarters I played him that year, had a tough match with him. So I'm sure Monday will be difficult, as well. 

 Q. Are you even more confident now than you were a few weeks ago that you can actually go on and win this?
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, the start's been very good and something that I needed for the confidence. You know, but I did feel I wasn't too far away from playing very good tennis again. I just needed to put more work in, and I did that the week before. So that definitely helped me going into the tournament with my belief. 
 You know, it's obviously showed the first few matches. But I'm going to have to play better next week if I want to go all the way. 

 Q. There were a few famous faces out there watching you. Anyone you particularly picked out? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Chris Hoy, got a message from him this morning. He came to watch me in Australia, as well. He's a pretty big boy, as well. Tough to miss. 
 But, no, I mean, that's great for the sport when you get a lot of, you know, great sportsmen and women to come along and watch. Everybody, most stayed until the end. That was great.

 Q. The football tomorrow, are you going to try to watch?
 ANDY MURRAY: I'm actually practicing from 1:30 to 2:30, so probably like the last match, I'll see the second half. But, yeah, I mean, it's good that the tennis isn't going to be on tomorrow 'cause I'm sure a lot of people will be watching that. 

 Q. Supporting England?
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I would like to see England win, but Germany did look -- I did think they looked pretty good. But you never know in the knockout. I mean, England, they've got the players to win the match, but they just need to play well.

 Q. Was there any significance in the red sweat band and white sweat band?
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I just wear what I was given by adidas. 

 Q. There were 14 members of the armed forces in the Royal Box. They got a great reception. Most of them stayed to give you a great reception. How did you feel about that?
 ANDY MURRAY: That was great, obviously. The stuff that they do is way harder than anything we do as sportsmen. They put their life on the line for the country. It was awesome that they came along to watch and support, yeah. I mean, everything that they do is amazing. I'm sure everybody agrees with that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT