WIMBLEDON
June 22, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Hajek
  7-5, 6-1, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Good evening, everyone. Andy Murray for you.   
  
  Q. As a whole, how close is that to a perfect start to the tournament?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was good. I mean, the start of the match was tricky. I haven't seen him play that much. He started very well. But once I got back into the first set, I did start to feel a lot more comfortable. Served well and didn't give him many chances.   
 Definitely got better as the match went on.  
  
  Q. Is that as good as you've felt since Melbourne?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know. I felt I was definitely in the right frame of mind for the match. You know, I felt when I went behind, I mean, it's not the best start, but I felt calm, you know. Just, you know, found a way to get myself back into the match.   
 So I wouldn't say it's the best that I've felt since Melbourne, but it's a good start.   
  
  Q. You've spoken about how you haven't felt as confident in the last couple of months. Is that the kind of win that brings that kind of confidence back to you again?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, obviously coming here helps. It's obviously a great place to play. You know, I've had good results here the last few years.   
 You know, when you play well in a place beforehand, you tend to play well there and it makes you feel more comfortable when you come back.   
 So it was a good start. You know, I feel, uhm, confident.   
  
  Q. Twelve months ago you said that it was -- I think you used the term 'unacceptable' to describe the performances with so many British losses. It's even worse this year. What's your reaction to that?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's not great, is it? I mean, you know, I said obviously I'd like to see more British players playing in the tournament and more British win.   
 Yeah, it's not ideal. You know, everybody that will be working at the LTA will be disappointed, as well. You know, a few of the girls had a chance to win. Didn't take quite them. Obviously, it was only me and Jamie that were in the boys.   
 Yeah, it's not a great start.   
  
  Q. Do you feel it's getting worse? The results this year are worse. Do you feel there's any progress?   
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know, to be honest. I mean, I don't know, you know -- I'm not around it that much. But, I mean, if you get a look at the rankings and the actual facts of, you know, where the players are and how they're doing in the bigger tournaments, the big junior tournaments, the results haven't been great.  
  
  Q. How much of that pressure that's being obviously heaped on you as the lone carrier, how much of that are you actually feeling?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I actually don't mind it. There's definitely pressure on me to play well. But, you know, I think that, uhm, the few months since Melbourne, it's something I needed to refocus me to make sure that I perform well. Today was a good start. Hopefully I can continue that in the next match.   
  
  Q. Given that you already have that pressure heaped on you, looking ahead to Thursday, the Queen being here, how is that going to affect you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I hope it doesn't affect me in the match. You know, I think it's one of those things when you get out there, you know, you're aware of it, but then, you know, it is our job to be able to concentrate and to focus, not let things that are going on off the court distract you.   
 So, you know, I've been doing it for the last five, six years, getting used to playing in big stadiums with people watching and various distractions. You just need to stay focused.   
  
  Q. You've learnt to deal with the pressure. Do you feel there's things the other British players can do to learn that? Obviously, a lot of them had chances, but they didn't take them.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I don't know. It's something that I've always enjoyed playing in the big tournaments because that was why I always played tennis. I mean, obviously you want to enjoy it, but surely when you start playing a sport, you want to compete in the biggest events against the best players.   
 When you get there, there's definitely a pressure that comes with it, but something you should be able to enjoy as well. That's it for me. I enjoy playing the big events. If there's extra pressure, I don't think it affects the way that I play. You just got to get your head 'round it and deal with the pressure.   
 I don't know if it's something that you have when you're growing up or something that you can be taught. But for me, I've enjoyed playing in the big events since I was young.  
  
  Q. Did you feel more comfortable going to the net today?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I didn't get to net too often. But, yeah, when I was there, I felt good. I practiced a lot the last sort of five, six days, just hitting a lot of volleys.   
 You know, if you pick, you know, the right moments to go into the net on grass, you get a lot of pretty easy volleys.   
 You know, they're the ones that you need to make sure you're focused on so, you know, you're able to shorten points. Especially against the best players, you need to be able to do that.   
  
  Q. Thursday will probably change all this. Hitherto, who is the most famous person you've been introduced to or met?   
 ANDY MURRAY: I would probably say David Beckham. He's probably up there, I would have thought, yup.   
  
  Q. What has the Club said to you about Thursday?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I haven't actually spoken to anybody about it yet. But I think there's a good chance I'll play the first match on the Centre Court, so I'll get a chance to play in front of the Queen. Then maybe after the match I'll get the chance to meet her.   
 But I haven't spoken to anybody about it yet.   
  
  Q. What impact is the World Cup going to have? You said there's less pressure or attention.   
 ANDY MURRAY: It's not less pressure. I'm still trying to win the event. But, yeah, just, you know, less people here. There's some empty seats. Then around the practice courts, it's just a bit quieter. A few less distractions.  
  
  Q. You posted some messages on Twitter before the game. Do you think that helps you relax and take your mind off things?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I think it's just something nice. I mean, obviously the people that are following me, you know, are supporters. I think it's good if you can communicate with them as much as possible.   
 You know, yeah, I mean, I enjoy the Twittering. I think it's a good thing.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised to be on Court 1 today rather than Centre?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Actually, I wasn't that bothered which court I played on. I mean, I played -- I was probably due not to play on Centre Court. I played the last four or five years, since I played Stepanek, I hadn't played off Centre Court.   
 It was actually nice in a way. You know, I'll probably be back on Centre Court for the next round.   
 But, you know, it was a little bit of a surprise because I hadn't played on any other court for the last few years.   
  
  Q. You played Jarkko twice. You haven't played since '07. He's not going to turn up as a sacrificial lamb on Thursday. What are you expecting from him?  
 ANDY MURRAY: He has a lot of experience. He had a really good chance to beat Roddick at the French Open a few weeks ago. He's a tough player. He's obviously a lefty, which can make it tricky. You know, he's a very solid player. He doesn't hand matches to you. You have to go out and beat him. He's not going to make many mistakes.   
 So I have to play well.   
  
  Q. I'm from Finland. You toyed with Nieminen, playing the lines and dropshots. Are you capable of such a show here on the grass?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Where was that?   
  
  Q. I can't say, but it was a few years ago.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I can't remember the match. I remember playing him in Toronto quite a few years ago.   
 Yeah, no, he's a tough player. I hope I play well. If I do, I'll have a chance to win. If not, he's a very difficult player to beat.   
  
  Q. How important is it to conserve energy? You had a few sort of knee niggles at the French.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, it's important in any tournament to try to come through the matches as quickly as possible. Yeah, today was a good start. You know, in the slams, more than the other tournaments, you want to conserve as much energy as possible.   
 It's definitely, definitely important.   
  
  Q. How was the knee today?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No, the knee is fine. I mean, it's just sore every week. But just something that I need to learn to deal with.   
  
  Q. Going back to the Queen, quite a lot made of a suggestion you might not bow to her on Thursday. Can you tell us about how you're feeling meeting her, if you will bow, and what you might say if you meet her?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know what I'll say exactly. I'll probably be a little bit nervous, understandably. I guess I don't want to mess up at all.   
 But, yeah, the plan was to bow to the Queen, as everybody would. It's just you wanted to get the right etiquette for what we were doing on the court. A few years back it definitely changed. Both players, when you went on Centre Court bowed, and they went out together. When they left the court, they left together, bowed again. Obviously, it's changed.   
 What I was trying to say, which I think was unfairly reported, was I wanted to make sure what the etiquette was before we went out on the court.   
  
  Q. You talked about coming back here kind of helping you, giving you a lift. You've gone one round further each time here. Does that similarly inspire you, give you confidence?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, you can't look into those things too much because they really don't make any difference. Every year is always going to be different. Every tournament is going to be different.   
 But obviously each year I have played better. I improved a lot from when I lost to Rafa, I think it was in 2008, I improved a lot since then, to the following year where last year I felt I had a chance to win the tournament. This year I feel like I have a chance again, but I'll need to play well.   
  
  Q. Any plans for tomorrow? Will you be watching the World Cup?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I'm practicing at 1:00. I don't know exactly when the matches are. But, yeah, I mean, I'll definitely match the 7:30 game. I was told that they banned the England match from the grounds here. So if I'm home in time, I'll watch it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT