AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 8, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/I. Navarro
  7-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Good start to your grass court season?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was the first -- the first match was tricky. He served really well in the first set and didn't give -- there was hardly any rallies really. There wasn't much rhythm. I just managed to get him in the tiebreak, but it was definitely tough. I didn't return particularly well.  
 The second set was very good. Returned a lot better. I felt more comfortable on the court.  
 The doubles was very good. Jamie played very well. I -- yeah, I thought I played good.  
  
  Q. When was the last time you had two wins in three hours?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I have no idea. Yeah, I don't know.   
  
  Q. It's unusual, isn't it?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I don't -- yeah, I mean, this is one of the few tournaments where, you know, you go on -- yeah, you can have days like that. You know, a lot of the guys -- I'm sure tomorrow like Rafa will play, you know, a couple of times.   
 You know, it was actually good that we managed to get the match done today, because it obviously frees up the schedule a little bit. You know, it stopped me having to play a couple of matches in a day or one singles and two doubles one of the days if there's bad weather tomorrow, which I was told is expected. It's good we got it out of the way.  
  
  Q. What about the knee? I see you got the ice pack on?  
 ANDY MURRAY: The knee is fine. It's precaution. I ice my knee after every single match I play and after every single practice. Nothing different.  
  
  Q. Was it good to have Kim back on courtside cheering you on today?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I'd rather not discuss that, but yeah, every time I have friends and family supporting me for me, that's of benefit, I think.  
  
  Q. The reason you're on doubles, presumably just grass, getting more and more grass under your feet?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, yeah. I mean, you want to try and play as many matches as possible. You know, that's why the doubles obviously helps, and, you know, it's nice to -- I haven't played with Jamie for a long time, over a year. Nice to play with Jamie.   
 Yeah, the matches aren't normally that long on the grass, so it is important to try and get as many in as possible.   
 I thought I moved pretty well today. You know, a lot of guys were slipping and struggling with the movement. I was happy I managed to stay upright.  
  
  Q. How did the regeneration of the partnership with Jamie come around? Did you suggest that to him or did he suggest that to you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, I always -- I mean, a lot of the tournaments Jamie's ranking dropped, and a lot of the Masters Series tournaments we wouldn't have got in together because our combined ranking wouldn't have been high enough.  
 But, you know, also it is difficult sometimes, because obviously if Jamie has a partner who he is playing with every week, it's also important to keep that partnership together and not break it up for a couple weeks at a time and whatnot.  
 There was a chance Jamie wouldn't have got in to play with his normal partner, and he asked me to play, and I was always gonna play doubles here, so that's how it came about.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT