MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 12, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 HUTCHINS-MURRAY/Cermak-Mertinak
  6-1, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Andy.   
  
  Q. How did it feel being back playing on clay?   
 ANDY MURRAY: It was good, actually. It's a nice court, that one. Perfect start. We got here early, on Wednesday evening, so I had quite a few days. Good start.   
  
  Q. Do you know or have you had much to do with Kohlschreiber over the years?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I played him Hopman Cup is the only time I played him in a match. It would be the first time we played. I really haven't practiced much with him either.   
 But he's talented. He's given the top guys a lot of good matches over the last couple years. You know, had a long one today.   
 But he's a tough player. Beat Djokovic at the French last year. Good clay court player. Very good clay court player, and I need to play well to beat him.   
  
  Q. Does a doubles match help when you're not starting till Wednesday?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I like playing doubles at the start. Indian Wells is a good one to play. Here is good. I played in Canada. If it's the first match in a little while, here is obviously a new surface, I think it's really good to play some doubles. Nice to warm up. Haven't had that many doubles matches lately, so it was nice.   
  
  Q. Have you had more practice on clay this year than you would have last year?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. Last year because I did well in Miami, I only got back on Tuesday morning to London, and we probably came out here Thursday, Friday. So a I practiced a few days back home on clay, and I stayed in Miami for a few days afterwards and practiced on the green clay there. So I've had quite a few days on it.   
  
  Q. How do you feel generally in yourself going into the clay court season? America obviously didn't go as well as you've done the last couple of years.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, actually I feel pretty good, you know. I've been practicing well, but playing good in practice. You know, obviously in the matches, last few months, haven't gone particularly well.   
 But if I'm feeling good in practice. If I can fight through some matches, I'll start to play better and better. So I'm not too worried about the last couple months, you know, because I've been playing well. You know, I've been playing well in practice; not in the matches. You know, I know it might take me a little bit of time, but I'll start to play well in them, too.   
  
  Q. The appointment of Leon Smith as captain in Davis Cup, what do you think of that one?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's obviously interesting. You know, I want to clear up, just before I go into talking into any more detail, I had spoke to two people from the LTA about possible Davis Cup captains, and Leon was never one name I mentioned to those two people. So I'm not taking any responsibility at all for Leon's appointment.   
 I never, yeah, mentioned his name when I spoke in those two conversations I had with Steven Martens. You know, I think that I spoke to Leon a little bit about it. You know, obviously it's a big responsibility for him. You know, I need to speak to him about it obviously as a friend more than anything 'cause I want him to do well and obviously be successful. You know, but it's a big responsibility for him. It's going to be tough.   
 But, you know, if he really wants to do it, you know, and he believes in himself enough, then I'm sure, you know, he can do a good job.   
 But it's going to be very, very difficult.   
  
  Q. Obviously I guess you could personally help him to do extremely well by playing for him. Will you be doing that in July?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I'm not sure. I think I'll have to make a decision a bit closer to the time, you know. But I think that's one of the things I don't want to get involved in. Leon's my friend. You know, I need to still do what's right for me. If I want to play, I'm playing for the team, it's not that I'm playing 'cause Leon's the captain.   
 I hope that was not the reason why he became captain. I don't think that's the way to make a decision on something as big as this.   
 You know, have to wait and see come July. But, again, it's a tie that I feel we should be able to win, even if I don't play.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT