SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. FISH/A. Murray
  6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. You know this court almost more than anyone else. You practice here all the time. What made the difference in today's match?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, Mardy served well when he needed to. You know, especially the second set when he was down break points he served well.   
 But I just wasn't very good today, and I'm gonna need to get a lot better.  
  
  Q. Any particular reason? Did you feel good or the forehand went out of sync?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I felt good in practice. In the match I was -- if you leave the ball short in the middle of the court, it's very easy for guys to attack and be aggressive.   
 You know, you don't get away with playing that way against guys that can serve well that are difficult to break and play very aggressive on the return.   
 You know, when I played Mardy in the past I was able to, you know, to play smart. You know, my bread and butter is on my return game and my groundstrokes, and they were poor.  
  
  Q. It looked pretty fine, 3-1, 40-Love, you were in relative control. Just something happen there.   
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know. I don't think it's just, you know, that stage in the match. Something wasn't right from -- even though I was a break up, I didn't feel all that comfortable on the court.   
 You know, yeah, the shots that I played in that game were, you know, shots that I wouldn't normally miss. You know, I haven't been tough enough on the court, and that's what's most disappointing.   
 You can kind of get away with, you know, playing badly. I don't really mind that. But, you know, mentally the last few weeks I've been really poor and unacceptable.  
  
  Q. Were you surprised how aggressive he was on that return?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. Every time I played him he plays like that. That's his style. He tries to come forward. He's aggressive on the second serve.   
 He obviously makes some and misses some. That's the way he plays. He likes to keep the points short, so the way he played didn't surprise me.  
  
  Q. You've had success with him before. How much do you think maybe this fitness thing he went through has given him a little extra speed or confidence?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know what fitness thing he has gone through, but I'm sure he's worked hard.  
 You know, he's a good player. He's beaten some top guys before. He beat Roger a few years ago. He's given Novak some tough matches. He's a tough guy to play against. He played better than me.  
  
  Q. Is this all the more baffling, given a city and a place you're so familiar with and you're comfortable with?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Ah, no. Last week was poor, too. You know, it's not been great since Australia.  
 You know, I need to -- needed to find a way to get round it, and I'm sure I will. I've gone through bad patches before, and I just need to practice hard, work hard, and get stronger. I'm sure I'll start playing better again.  
 But the last few weeks haven't been the best.  
  
  Q. Do you think a change of surface, especially on the clay, might actually be what you need now, a switch of direction?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I think it's just I need to get my mind right; I need to get focused again. You know, when I do that, my game will get better again. That's for sure.  
  
  Q. Any reason why it goes away? I mean, is it frustrating?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I don't know. That's something I need to sort out myself. It's purely down to me, what goes on inside my head. No one else can, you know, make that better or change it, you know. You need to do that yourself.   
 Doesn't matter how well you practice. You know, you need to be tough in the matches. I need to get better, you know, mentally, because since Australia where I was great in all of the matches, I've been poor.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT