SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 24, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What would your considered thought be after an elapsed period of time after Indian Wells? How do you feel that the intervening period has gone for you?
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean obviously I would have liked to have done a bit better at Indian Wells. But, you know, it was -- you know, I wasn't going in I guess expecting to win the tournament. 
 I think, you know, I've got to kind of look forward to this week. Had a good chat with Miles and Alex after I finished there about what I wanted to do, you know, in the week that I had to get ready, you know, and what my goals and stuff were for this week.
 I feel good.

 Q. Do you feel like this is like a home court for you, considering what you did here last year?
 ANDY MURRAY: Um, no, I mean, the whole feel of the tournament is nice for me, because I live like eight, ten minutes away. Don't live here, but spend a lot of time here training and stuff, and I practiced here in December.
 So, you know, I've played a lot on the courts, so it just, you know, feels -- it doesn't take me that long to get used to the conditions and stuff because I spend so much time here.
 But in terms of it being a home court, not necessarily. You know, I have not played here too many years, and last year was obviously the best I played. Hopefully I can do well again this year.

 Q. Is the court worth a few points to you?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think so, yeah. I mean, I think -- you know, it does make a difference if you, you know, practice at the place where you're gonna be playing. 
 It just -- you know, it's a little bit, like I say, just -- I don't know if you train in the same -- you know, if you train in the same gym and lift the same weights all the time, and then you if you go to a different gym, even though the weights say the same, they always feel a little bit heavier, a little bit different. 
 Always takes you a little bit to get used to it psychologically maybe.

 Q. Has anybody asked you about your take on what happened in Parliament yesterday?
 ANDY MURRAY: In what? 

 Q. The question of tennis in the UK was brought up in Parliament. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Oh, okay. No, I haven't spoken to anyone about it. I heard it was gonna happen, but I didn't hear what happened. 

 Q. Do you think it's in any sort of crisis, or is that not so?
 ANDY MURRAY: Um, I mean, that's a difficult one. I think on the men's side things have been going well, you could say, you know, in terms of the results that we've been having, and obviously the level that we're in in Davis Cup and whatnot. 
 On the women's side, it's actually way better than it has been in quite a few years. So the women's side, I think, is doing good; could be better always.
 But the men's side, yeah, needs to get way, way better, you know. Because I think the amount of money that's invested and spent in the game we, as a nation, deserve better results.

 Q. At Indian Wells, did you sort of feel like you were waking up at the end of the match, or a couple more points you might have won?
 ANDY MURRAY: I nearly managed to turn it around. It just, yeah, wasn't a great match up until that point from my side. And then, yeah, just about -- I had kind of had the momentum with me going into a tiebreak. 
 You know, I just wasn't playing well enough to win it, and Robin was hitting a big ball and serving good.
 You know, I didn't really help myself out too much. Made a few mistakes in the tiebreak that I shouldn't have. Yeah, I almost managed to turn it around, so hopefully I can kind of play like I was till the last few games of that match here.

 Q. You mentioned your base of your training maybe gives you an edge playing here. How about for the rest of the field, do you feel it gives you an edge training in Miami?
 ANDY MURRAY: Training here, I mean a lot of the players train in hot climates. Unfortunately, the weather where we're from isn't particularly good. 
 So I think it does make a difference if you are from a country where the weather is cold. It's good to get out in hot, humid conditions. Like after Wimbledon I come out here and train and it's pretty brutal weather. 
 If you can get used to playing in that heat, most places feel relatively easy. So that definitely helps me. 
 But whether it gives it... 

 Q. Will you do another training block in the summer here before the hardcourt season?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, for sure. Yeah. 

 Q. You said that you've spoke to Miles about change of emphasis in your game. Is that how you phrased that?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, not change of emphasis, just, you know, we talked about what happened in Indian Wells and what I need to do to get better and what to do to get ready for here.
 You know, it wasn't changing the way I was trying to play or whatever. I was just making sure I go in with a clear mind of what I want to do, you know, not only in the match but in the tournament that I'm playing in.
 You know, that should help me. But Alex was there, as well. It was good for me, and, you know, hopefully it will help this week.

 Q. Did you know that your name was bandied around quite a bit in a critical fashion for not playing in the Davis Cup in Lithuania?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah.

 Q. And John Lloyd was one who mentioned it, and others. Could you tell us your take on that?
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I can I understand, I guess, to a certain extent that, you know, everyone would, you know, like me to play in the Davis Cup, because obviously we've got a better chance of winning.
 You know, I mean, it's kind of difficult. But like the last, you know, last tie I played in Davis Cup, you know, I was injured. I played through the match when I was injured, and it set me back probably double the amount of time that it would have done if I hadn't played.
 You know, you don't -- you know, no one kind of talks about that side when you're playing through matches when you're hurt, and then, you know, sets you back from -- you drop ranking points. You know, you don't have the opportunity to win tournaments.
 You know, I need to make a decision what's best, you know, not only just for the team but also my own career as well.
 You know, you hear football managers and stuff all of the time get annoyed when their players get injured playing for their countries. You know, it's just one of those things where you have to weigh what's best for your career. 
 I don't see, you know, John, you know, coming out and having a go at Federer or Rafa or Roddick, you know, Del Potro or whoever, the guys that, you know, don't play Davis Cup all of the time, either.
 I think there needs to be a bit of perspective there that it's just not me missing the Davis Cup tie. There are some guys that play very, very few matches that are a lot better players than me.

 Q. On a lighter note, as the field continues to expand with international players, do you sometimes need a pronunciation guide to even know the guys that you may be facing, or heard of? They may be obscure names. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, I follow tennis pretty well, so I know most of the guys and know kind of who's going through. 
 To me, I think it's something that makes tennis pretty cool in that in a draw you can have, you know, whatever there is, 96 players or something here, and you can have 70-some different countries being represented. 
 I think it's good for sport, and I think that's why tennis will always do well, because you have people interested from all over the world.

 Q. Would you like to consider playing a tournament in South America in the future?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I actually just got asked that. I was doing an interview out there. I played there as a junior. I played five tournaments there in the, I think it was the COSAT, the ITF tournaments. Actually, I really, really enjoyed it. 
 Yeah, it would be nice to go back. I've never been to Argentina or Brazil before, and I would like to go there sometime. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT