BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 19, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







R. SODERLING/A. Murray
  6-1, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on the match? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I think he played very well for -- to start with, and I didn't. You know, I didn't move particularly well. I was hitting the ball really short, and he's obviously got a big game and he was able to dictate all of the points.
 So from my side it was poor, but he hit the ball really big from the back of the court and served well when he needed to.

 Q. Do you think you had a chance to take over the momentum when you broke him late in the second set and had a big service game, as well?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I did. You know, I went up Love-30 on his next service game, but the guy is serving, you know, 135 up to 140 miles an hour, and it's very difficult to -- you know, when guys are making them, to dictate the points, you know, because you're just trying to get the return back in play. 
 You know, at that stage he served a few big ones and got himself back in it. You know, I made some mistakes in the tiebreak, and that's why I lost.

 Q. You talked about your movement. Was there something hampering you today?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I just didn't move well. You know, it's partly down to the way he plays. Sometimes, you know, the guys can -- you know, he was hitting the ball big from both sides. 
 From the end where he had the wind with him, you know, he was serving big, and then I wasn't really getting a chance to get into the rallies.
 You know, it happens sometimes unfortunately. Just I didn't move particularly well.

 Q. Was his form in the first set the best he's played against you?
 ANDY MURRAY: I haven't played him for a long time, and he's a lot better player than he was three years ago when I played against him. I watched him a lot the last year or so; he's been playing a lot better. 
 Like I say, he serves well, hits a big ball. When he's in a rhythm, you know, he hits the ball real big off both wings, which makes it difficult. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT