BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 17, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/N. Almagro
  6-2, 1-0 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Well, it's always, I suppose, beneficial to have a reasonably comfortable night, but you must have been pleased at the way you recovered or responded going 2-1 down.   
 ANDY MURRAY: You know, he's a really dangerous player. He's given a lot of top guys problems, because he just, he hits a really big ball. He's got a huge serve and second serve is tough to attack, and, you know, he just goes for big shots.   
 I guess, you know, when he's under a little bit less pressure, you know, he tends to play better. You know, it was -- yeah, he started well, but obviously I managed to break back in the next game, and felt more comfortable after that.  
  
  Q. Is he difficult to get rhythm against because of the way he plays?  
 ANDY MURRAY: A little bit. I mean, I think a lot of players I guess kind of talk about rhythm and stuff, but I think -- I never really feel it like on the court, you know.  
 There's like extreme cases where you play someone like Karlovic or something, and, you know, you just don't hit any balls when he's serving. That's different. But, I mean, he plays from the back of the court.   
 You know, unless the guy is, you know, playing like sort of Karlovic or Isner, I think that you should always be in a rhythm. You should have hit enough balls in practice and feel good enough going into a match that even if you're only hitting 10 to 15 balls in a game, should be enough.  
  
  Q. Were you aware that he injured himself at any point during the match?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No. Well, he seemed like he was moving okay. At the start we had some pretty good points. But then, yeah, I mean, it came on --seemed like it came on pretty suddenly. He said he had done it yesterday, you know.  
 And if you have a bad ankle sprain, it's obviously very difficult to move. But it seemed okay at the start of the match.  
  
  Q. Mr. Soderling has had a meteoric rise, especially in the last few months. What do you make of that particular contest? You haven't played him for four years.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I played him a lot right at the start when I came on the tour, and actually beat him to go into the top 100 for the first time in Bangkok.   
 I remember that match well; won 7-6, 7-6. He's one of the best indoor players in the world for sure, and now he's obviously improved his results outdoors.   
 And, yeah, he's a very, very tough player because he's got big game serves. First serve is very, very good. Normally serves a high percentage, so it might be beneficial to play it in the wind against him during the day. But he's definitely a tough player.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT