BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 14, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/A. Seppi
  6-4, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Was the return to the practice court straight after the match just to get a few cobwebs out, or do you think you needed a bit more hitting?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I did it more sort of when -- it's a quite a Spanish thing to do. I used to do it a lot when I trained in Spain and traveled with Spanish coaches, traveled with the players.   
 I don't mind doing it, but obviously I haven't played that many matches lately. You know, it was a pretty scrappy match today. Even though, you know, it was relatively comfortable, still some tight moments.   
 Then it was just to go and hit a few more balls and get used to the conditions. Sometimes if there's, you know, a little bit of tension or whatever, it's nice to just go and play a little bit looser. That was why I went and hit.  
  
  Q. Did you feel a bit tense today?   
 ANDY MURRAY: It's tough to explain. There wasn't a particular point in the match where I felt like in a lot of trouble. But it's just, yeah, because you've not played for a while. You know, it is pretty breezy on the court. It's just sometimes quite difficult to get into a rhythm.  
 You know, obviously started the year well in Australia, and, you know, you remember the feelings you had there. You're not necessarily hitting the ball as well as you were, as well as you have been in practice. You know, don't know if it's tension. You're just a little bit -- I don't know. Just a bit surprised, maybe.   
 But, saying that, when you haven't played for a long time, you have to expect not to play your best the first match out. I'm sure next round out I'll feel fine.  
  
  Q. What pleased you most about your performance out there today, Andy?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Um, I thought after the first -- second set I started serving well, started going for big serves, and got a lot of free points from my serve. I moved good. I just didn't necessarily hit the ball that clean from the back of the court, and I didn't start the match off serving well at all.   
 But once, you know, I got into a rhythm on my serve and started winning a lot more free points off my first serve, then he wasn't able to attack my second serve much in the second set.   
 Obviously didn't get broken in the five service games in that set. So it did get better as the match went on, but just a scrappy stuff.  
  
  Q. Do you feel as though you completely got the disappointment from the Australian Open final out of your system now? Is that history for you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think it would not be good if it was still a problem. You know, it's been a long, long time now, and I haven't thought about that at all for the last month and a half or so. Just been practicing, training to get better.  
 The thing is, it was -- you know, I viewed it as being a very positive tournament; whereas, you know, some people might have thought, you know, I'd be -- I was incredibly disappointed not to win the final, of course, and for a few days afterwards, it was tough.  
 But when you look back and actually assess things properly, you know, it was a good trip over in Australia. I feel like I prepared as well as I can to play well here, too.   
  
  Q. When you're not serving well, is there anything you can do? Obviously you like to serve well every day, but what is it you do when you're not serving well?  
 ANDY MURRAY: You just gotta fight hard. You know, you have to do a bit more running and you have to play just high intensity from the back of the court.   
 You know, because one of the advantages, if you move well, is it's difficult for the opponent to see exactly where you're going to win points from.   
 If you can keep a good length and you're chasing every ball down, it takes sort of eight, nine, ten shots to win rallies. That builds up. Doesn't always work at the start of the match.   
 But as it starts to get tighter and closer, you start to make more mistakes and stuff. You have to hang in, fight, and that's all you can do if you're not serving well.   
 Hopefully you hit the ball well from the back of the court too, I guess.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT