AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 24, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/J. Isner
  7-6, 6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You've never played him before. What kind of experience is that? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's good. Obviously certain things are similar to playing Karlovic, who I've played a few times. John doesn't really serve and volley much. Plays a bit more from the baseline. He's got more variety on his serve, I think. 
 He can put a lot of spin on the second serve. You know, he really varies it really well. He's got a big forehand from the back of the court. Actually makes a lot of balls, so it's tricky. 

 Q. It's the first time you got to a Grand Slam quarterfinal without dropping a set. How do you explain your consistency? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Uhm, well, I mean, I've played it through to the fourth round a few times, actually here, without dropping a set. I don't know. Just played well today. You know, concentrated well in all of my matches. 
 That's really it. Not a whole lot in my game's changed. I guess it's a maturity thing. You learn to, I don't know, deal with the tight situations better and your focus holds for longer. 

 Q. You played Rafa a few years ago. Obviously, should he win, do you watch videos of recent games? Do you have a style you know can beat him? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it changes every time. You know, you have to kind of adjust to the match. Obviously, surfaces, I've played him indoors, hard courts, clay courts, and grass. Each time obviously it's a bit different. 
 Played him some really good matches on hard courts. I think I've got some tactics that work well against him. 

 Q. Do you remember that last game well here? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Here? I don't remember it that well, no. It was quite a long time ago. But it was a great match. You know, it was the first time I had, you know, played a top-two player in the world in a Grand Slam. It was a great experience. 

 Q. Don't know if you've had a chance to look at your stat sheet, but 75% first serve, eight unforced errors in three sets against a guy like that. Taking all those things into account, how did you feel you played today? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I thought it was a really good performance. I had -- out of those unforced errors, probably three of them were in the 6-5 game in the first set, and a couple early in one of my service games in maybe the second set. 
 So it was really good. I focused well, concentrated hard, and served well. Everything was good. 

 Q. What do you do differently when you know you have to face such a serve in order to prepare for the match? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I always get my coach to serve at me in the practice from the service line. Even if he's acing you, just to get used to how the ball's bouncing up. You kind of adjust where you're standing a little bit. 
 You know, you might think if you're playing against someone with a big serve, you know, it's better to go further back. But they can hit the angles better, so sometimes it's important to make sure you play closer a bit up to the baseline. 
 Just have to do a few different things when you're on the court to try to make them think about your positioning a little bit. 

 Q. Do you feel like you're finding some of your best form? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I'm playing well. No question about that. Uhm, just need to play like I have been, and maybe a bit more if I want to win the tournament. 

 Q. Can you talk us through those two backhand winners. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was good. A good couple of shots. I mean, I thought maybe he should have made the pickup off the first one. But he probably wasn't expecting it to come back so low over the net. 
 The second one, it's tough. You just kind of react. It's just instinct. You just chase the ball down. Good contact on it. Obviously went for the winner. 

 Q. You were whirling dervish after you hit that last shot. 
 ANDY MURRAY: A what?

 Q. You hit that magnificent backhand, and then you were spinning like a whirling dervish. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Was I? 

 Q. Yes. 
 ANDY MURRAY: I didn't realize. I was just excited. (Smiling.) 
 It was obviously to get the break in the third set. I'd had chances the first two service games to break him and didn't quite take them. So, yeah, happy with that. 

 Q. Have you met Prince William here?
 ANDY MURRAY: No.

 Q. Would you have liked to?
 ANDY MURRAY: Sure, yeah. I would have done. But I don't think he was here for very long. 

 Q. What sort of feedback had you had from the rapping with the Bryan brothers? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, I don't know. (Laughter.) From the people I've spoken to about it, everyone did find it amusing. I don't think it was particularly good. I don't enjoy listening to it, that's for sure. 
 But if it helped them out, then I'm happy. 

 Q. Can you give us a bit of a rendition of it. 
 ANDY MURRAY: No, no. (Smiling.) 

 Q. You were talking movies with Jim Courier. Would you consider a career in film yourself? 
 ANDY MURRAY: No, no. I don't think I'd be very good at that. 

 Q. You sound a bit like Sean Connery. 
 ANDY MURRAY: I am Scottish, so I sound a little bit like him. 

 Q. Is it a quantum leap as playing against Rafa as against the breeze that you've had in the first few rounds? In hindsight, would you have preferred to have maybe a bit more game time out there?
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I'm happy to have won the matches comfortably. I know the match against Rafa is going to be difficult, but I think I can win, so... 
 Just need to make sure I play my best. 

 Q. On TV they said you were more aggressive in the difficult moments of the match than you used to be before. Do you feel the same?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, a lot of that comes with, well, experience, knowing what to do on the, you know, important points, the best way to go about, you know, playing certain opponents. 
 Today when I was down, you know, I hit a lot of winners, served smart, was just thinking the whole time. Sometimes in the past, you know, when I was sort of 18, 19, you know, might have been getting worked up or not thinking about, you know, what I should be doing on the next point and worrying about what happened in the past. 
 Now, it's just focus on each point. So you make the right decision more often. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT