AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2010
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/S. Florent
  7-5, 6-1, 6-4 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. When you went down with the back problem, has there been a problem, when you twisted the back?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, it just hurts. Sometimes it happens on these courts. They're just really sticky. It just gets a little bit stiff.   
 But it was fine.   
  
  Q. Obviously very pleased with your returns.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I don't think my serve is an issue at all. Everyone is panicking about my serve. I'm happy with how it's gone. It's got better in each match, like I thought it would.   
 When the important moments have come, I've served well. That's the most important thing.   
 And return-wise, I mean, broke serve a lot so far this tournament against, you know, guys that have, you know, good serves. You know, Kevin Anderson is a good server. I returned well against him. I'm going to need that in the next match.   
  
  Q. You've not gone beyond three sets. Would you have wanted to be more tested by now?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I'm happy to have won in three sets in all of the matches. I was just saying that it's important to have tight situations in matches like the first set today where, you know, it got quite close at points. Against Gicquel, like in the third set, you know, it got close. Came through all the sort of tough moments in the match, as well.   
 But I'm happy to save as much energy as possible. Today was hot. So it was nice to get off the court quickly.   
  
  Q. You've broken your opponent's serve the first game the first three games. Is that important? Usually is that what you're trying to do?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, when you start the matches, you want to try and, you know, get off to a good start. Pretty sure everyone tries to, you know, break serve as early as possible and then get ahead in the match.   
 I started well in all the matches so far. I put them under a lot of pressure by making all of my returns. Try and keep that up.   
  
  Q. Do you sometimes watch Speedway on Sky Sports every Monday night?   
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I've never watched Speedway.   
  
  Q. You're not into extreme sports, like watching them?   
 ANDY MURRAY: I like Formula One. Is that extreme enough (smiling)? I like Formula One. I've actually never been to watch any of the Grand Prix live, but.  
  
  Q. No chance to get an invitation by Jenson Button?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I have no idea. I've not tried to get one from him. I don't know. Maybe.   
  
  Q. You said before the tournament you want to at least get to the fourth round. Can you start to afford yourself thoughts of a Nadal quarterfinal?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I want to try and get through the next match. You know, Isner is playing really well. Won the tournament last week. The guy is 6'9", has if not the best serve on the tour... Both guys in the next round are going to be really tough. Got to try to take care of that one first.   
 Rafa's got some tough matches to play, as well. I'm sure he won't be focusing on playing me yet either.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT