U.S. OPEN
September 4, 2009
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/P. Capdeville
  6-2, 3-6, 6-0, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Pleased to get through that, considering you weren't feeling your best?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I played three, you know, very good sets and one poor one. But you're allowed to play a bad set sometimes.   
 I came back well from it. You know, I don't know, just felt a little bit lethargic, a little bit low on energy. You know, I don't know why. But, you know, managed to pick it up at the end when I needed to.   
  
  Q. Was it the heat, as well? Did that get to you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I mean, I played -- I mean, the conditions in Montréal and Cincinnati were a lot hotter than it was today, you know, so I didn't feel like the heat was too bad.   
 I don't think that was the problem.   
  
  Q. Had you prepared any differently in terms of what you ate or drank before?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, it's just different. I mean, obviously, when you play the night matches, you know, even when it's a quick one, you're in bed at 2:00, you know. And then obviously having to change your routine a little bit, you know, playing earlier and having to eat at different times.   
 A lot of things you need to make sure you do properly. You know, even if you just get one of them wrong, it can have a bit of an effect. But, you know, I'll make sure that that doesn't happen.   
  
  Q. Is this perhaps the most fun Open for you? Because here in the States where you're not recognized as much, do you find you can enjoy New York City when you're not here?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I enjoy all of the slams for different reasons. You know, Wimbledon for me is nice away from the court, because at the end of the day you get to go back and sleep in your own bed and be at home. In some ways, that's very, very relaxing, compared to having to stay in hotels and whatnot.   
 I mean, I've always loved playing this tournament since I was young. I like the atmosphere here. I like New York as a city. You know, whether you get recognized or not to me doesn't make a huge difference on how much I enjoy a place or not.   
  
  Q. Do you get recognized here?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, yeah. Sometimes, yeah. I think, obviously, with the tennis being on, people are probably looking out for the tennis players a bit more.   
 We got a lot of Brits staying in our hotel, as well.  
  
  Q. Do you think you get enough respect for your success and how you play? Everybody talks about Roger's game, Rafa's game, Andy Roddick's game. Is that even an issue with you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, it's not really -- I guess not what I play for. I play for myself. It's not so much about what other people think. I don't know. I don't pay attention enough to know whether I do get respect or not.   
 I mean, by the amount of matches now that I'm playing on the center court, I think, you know -- I don't know if that makes a difference to the respect that I've got, but I very rarely play, you know, away from the big courts now.   
  
  Q. Considering the success you've had on hardcourts coming into the tournament, have you ever entered a Grand Slam feeling as good about your game? Talk about your state of mind, because you've had a tremendous summer season.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, this is my best surface. I mean, physically I think most of the players -- well, for me anyway, you go into Australia probably feeling the best all around. Mentally fresh, you know, physically you're going to be in good shape because you've just had the off-season. You can make sure you prepare properly.   
 You know, here I've obviously played a lot of matches, so I feel match tight. But it's a long year. Mentally I feel fresh just now, but it's a little bit different to the start of the year.   
 But, you know, physically you just feel more match tight. You don't feel as sore sort of after the matches as maybe you do at the start of the year. It's a tough one to answer.  
  
  Q. Is it true that perhaps here you can kind of let it all hang out in that you don't have to preserve your body for a long season ahead because it is the conclusion of the season?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, obviously this is the most, I guess, important tournament until the end of the year. But the tour finals are still a big tournament. You know, got Davis Cup coming up, as well.   
 So there are still tournaments there that are, you know, important after the US Open. But, yeah, there's a part of that. You want to make sure you don't sort of have any regrets because it's sort of a good three, four months before the next Grand Slam comes around. So make sure you give it your best.   
  
  Q. From a corporate endorsement point of view, is this the most important of Grand Slams for endorsement money?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I have absolutely no idea. I don't know. Sorry.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT