U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2009
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/E. Gulbis
  7-5, 6-3, 7-5 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. We know the ball boy didn't appear to be badly injured. Did you suffer anything at all with your tumble?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, just a few bruises. Maybe it will hurt in the morning for a little bit, but I don't think it did any damage.  
  
  Q. Was there a moment where you were lying there where you were thinking, I better check everything is in place?  
 ANDY MURRAY: You can normally pretty much tell straightaway. I knew, 'cause like, I mean, you get used to, like, if you fall over, you know, a few times, you kind of get used to, you know, not trying to stop yourself, but kind of I guess going with the fall a little bit. Doesn't hurt as much.   
  
  Q. Some pretty bad Hawk-Eye challenges. Where does that Gulbis one rank in your experience?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I'm sure he'd say the same. That was the worst. The thing is, a lot of the challenges, you know, I think both ways, that was probably the furthest. There's some where it might be an inch or two from the sideline and, you know, a foot from the baseline. But that was the long distance in both ways.   
  
  Q. When someone has struggled like he has to win matches, how important is it to get that first set under your belt and really dent his confidence?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, the thing is with him, I guess you could say he is sort of a confidence player. But, you know, I think those are the sort of matches that he gets himself up for. I don't think he plays as well when he's playing on, you know, Court 10 at Queen's or whatever.   
 You know, he has that sort of game where, you know, he can put you under a lot of pressure. I mean, I wouldn't have been too worried if I'd lost the first set because, you know, sometimes it takes a little bit of time to get into the match and used to the courts. But, you know, it's always nice when you can get off to a good start regardless of who it's against.   
  
  Q. Back on that court, any feelings of, I got the last day of the tournament last year, this is where I want to be again, that stage?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, obviously I want to be there. That's I think pretty obvious. I think there would be something wrong if I didn't.   
 You know, obviously I had a really good experience last year. I enjoy playing on that court. It's one of the biggest in the world. It's probably, I don't know, the coolest atmosphere out of all of the slams. You know, hopefully I'll play a lot of my matches on there.   
  
  Q. Pretty content as a first round goes?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I thought it was good. I thought a high standard of match. You know, I had a few chances in the third set to go up breaks. I had Love-30 in the first game, maybe Love-40 in the second service game, then a couple times in the first two sets where I was up a break and got broken straight back pretty much. You know, I was giving him chances to break me.   
 When it was sort of on serve, and I needed to, I didn't give him many chances at all. When I needed to, I upped my game. My concentration could have been a bit better. But for a first match, I thought it was very good because he played very well - a lot better than at Wimbledon.   
  
  Q. About Capdeville, you said you played with him in Barcelona, trained with him?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, we had the same coach when we were in Barcelona. We traveled a little bit together. I played doubles with him when I was like 16, 17, one or two tournaments. Actually know his game pretty well.   
  
  Q. And the matchup you think will be a good one for you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, I say I know his game well. I haven't seen him play for a long time. I know what his technique and his game looks like. It's not going to be any surprises.   
 I mean, he just do everything well. He doesn't move particularly well, so I'm going to try and exploit that.   
  
  Q. Against such a big but sometimes erratic hitter like Gulbis, do you find yourself being less on the attack and more wait for a mistake from him sometimes?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's tough. You have to pick your moments to be aggressive. Like when I broke him in the third set, I managed to turn the defense to attack pretty well and hit a big winner.   
 You know, sometimes, like when I broke him in the first set, he missed like three balls that were in the middle of the court. You know, so then you think to yourself let's just make him play some balls, and then he can hit some winners. You know, it's tough to know how to play against him. Sometimes I played aggressive and he hit some huge passing shots, so you just never know.  
  
  Q. You said this is the coolest atmosphere out of all of the slams. What makes it that way for you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, when the ball kid fell over, you wouldn't get that at any of the other slams where he's up on the big screen and the crowd get into it. You know, that was one of the loudest cheers of the evening. I don't know if that's a good thing or not (smiling).   
 But, you know, the music at the change of ends. I don't know, that's it. I mean, you have to I guess play and have seen all the courts to know and make I guess your own judgment. But I think that the atmosphere there is a lot different to the other slams.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT