WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 22, 2009
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. FEDERER/A. Murray
  6-2, 7-6 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. That challenge in the tiebreak, did you know right away it was -- were you second guessing yourself? You kind of fell on the ground when you said challenge.   
 ANDY MURRAY: I looked at the mark and I knew it was in, so I knew I had lost the point.  
  
  Q. Do you take anything from the fact that you fought back? You fought back from a hole in the second set, to fought back from a hole in the tiebreak. Does that mean anything?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I was just happy that I managed to keep it close in the second, because I returned poorly and served poorly. Against Roger, if you do both of those things, it's gonna be very, very difficult.  
 I stayed strong and played some good points from the back. Obviously had chances to win the second set. You know, I thought that was a pretty good effort, because that was not one of my best performances.  
  
  Q. Was Roger's level of play similar to the US Open final from last year?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I don't know. You know, obviously different matches. You know, I didn't think I played that well in either of the -- well, today or in the US Open final.   
 But, I mean, if you let Roger play well, then he's very, very difficult to beat. I mean, the first set, you know I was leaving the ball short and giving him a lot of second serves to look at and not making a whole a lot of returns, so therefore unable to put any pressure on him.   
 He was going for his shots because I was leaving the ball in the middle of the court. I did that a little bit in the US Open, too.   
 You know, I was happy managed to up my game in the second set.  
  
  Q. Why do you think you couldn't play your best today?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know. Sometimes that happens. You know, I had a long couple of weeks. I played -- this was my ninth match in, I don't know, 13, 14 days.   
 Every single match I played in the heat of the day. Every one of them. Not one day did I get to play a night match.  
 So it was good for my fitness to get used to the heat and the conditions. Any of the guys will tell you that playing in this heat these back-to-back weeks is a very difficult to do well in both of them. I think I've had a good, good few weeks.  
  
  Q. How do you feel then just ahead of the US Open? Do you feel in really good shape for the Open and pretty high on confidence after the efforts over the last couple of weeks?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, I played seven, I thought, very solid matches. And then yesterday and today weren't so good. That could have down to a combination of things: My opponent was playing well, my level dropping slightly.   
 In both of matches I just started a little bit sluggish and then managed to find my game. I don't know if that's a sort of mental fatigue thing or not just playing consecutive days a lot.  
 You know, it's been perfect preparation for the US Open. I'll go there this evening or tomorrow and rest up for a couple days and train hard before it starts.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT