WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 20, 2009
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/R. Stepanek
  6-4, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Did you feel you were in control all the way through?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I started the match very well, serving well and not giving him any chances. Then the wind picked up at the end of the first set, and he managed to break me.   
 But I played a good game to break back. Had a couple of good returns, and obviously a lob to finish with was nice.  
 After that, started to feel a lot better. It's tough conditions. Very, very windy.  
  
  Q. What do you have to tell yourself to do in these conditions?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, you need to be patient, because, you know, I saw a little bit of Federer's match before I was going on. You know, you can't play, you know, to the lines. You're gonna mishit some shots. It's just important to not get too frustrated.   
 Even in the game where he got broken back, sometimes you -- you know, you feel comfortable serving out and it can get tricky. The guys that has got the wind can put quite a lot of pressure on you. You end up being quite a long way behind the baseline.   
 It's not because you're feeling nervous, it's just, you know, the conditions make it tough to play aggressive. You just got to stay tough.   
  
  Q. You've played Federer very well, and there seems to be some players that almost feel like there's a mental wall that they are not expected to beat the Nadals and the Federers, and they don't. How did you avoid that? What was your mindset that enabled you to have success?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I always wanted to, since I was young, try and get to the top of the game. I think that, you know, if you get the chance to play against, you know, those guys, that's -- well, it's great.   
 I mean, that was always reason why I played, was to get the chance to play against them. I wanted to play against Agassi when I was growing up. Unfortunately he retired.   
 Federer and Nadal are the two best ones, and they're gonna go down in history as two of the best. I just love playing them. It's always a great challenge. Never been a problem for me.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about your recording on the Bryan brother's album?  
 ANDY MURRAY: It was good fun. I mean, they asked me to do it and I said that I would go for it. But, yeah, first time I've ever done that. Probably gonna be the last.   
  
  Q. When we told Blake that you had driven here, he said, Oh, I think he's a little bit afraid of flying. Do you have any kind of fear of flying with all the flights you take in a year?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, I -- well, we spend probably about, I don't know, a hundred flights a year. Sometimes it's quite nice to drive. It's probably -- well, it was a bit longer than we expected, but I don't think you can do a job like this one if you have a fear of flying.   
  
  Q. You look fresher than you did on Monday or on Tuesday rather.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I've had two quick matches. You know, obviously I had a long final on Sunday. You know, being able to, you know, sleep well and stuff the last few days and finish reasonably early has not been -- my matches have probably been an hour and 20 minutes max. I feel like I've recovered from the end of last week.   
 Yeah, feel pretty fresh.  
  
  Q. Your opponent lost in quallies and he came through a three-hour match today. Are you pretty clear that you're gonna feel a lot fresher than him tomorrow?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, I obviously played a lot of matches last week as well, so I don't think that will be the factor whether I win or lose the match.   
 You know, he's -- most guys recover reasonably well in three-set matches. Lucky it wasn't particularly hot today. But he's a tough player. You know, if I play well and stay tough early on, then maybe he'll struggle a little bit.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT