ROGERS CUP
August 16, 2009
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Del Potro
  6-7, 7-6, 6-1 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How do you compare the barrage of when he was at his best during that match with similar barrages you've had from other top players?  
 ANDY MURRAY: The thing that's tough with, I mean with him, because of his height, you know -- I mean, he's obviously got a big serve. You know, if he comes with a big serve, it's very tough to get the ball sort of away from him because he's got such a long reach.  
 You know, he hits the ball so clean from the back of the court that he makes it very, very tough for you and you end up doing quite a lot of running.  
 You know, he's -- well, he's a top player now. Obviously he wins a lot of matches. He very rarely loses to guys that he shouldn't lose to, and you know, he's going to be around obviously for a long time. He's got a very good all-around game.  
  
  Q. When did you know you were physically the fresher of the two players?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, before the match. I mean, I felt like I was probably going to be physically stronger. You know, you can always -- you know, he's played a lot of matches. You can always sort of find your way into a match, and when you have sort of a big serve like him, that can always keep you in when -- you know, I felt like I was playing better than him from the back of the court for a lot of the match. But he was hitting -- he got a lot more free points off his first serve, the first two sets.  
 The beginning of the second, I mean, he looked like he was tired, but then, you know, he starts swinging at shots, and then all of a sudden you're on the back foot and it's tough to play against someone when they look really relaxed, especially in a big match like that. It was probably the beginning of the second set I felt like physically he was struggling a bit.  
  
  Q. Were you still worried that you would run out of time in that second set, that he wouldn't falter enough?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I don't think it was through his faltering why I won the second set. And the tiebreak I -- you know, I hit maybe three aces, you know. I came up with one really good lob, sort of pickup at 4-3 to, you know, to -- well, to get the mini break back.   
 I mean, he was just making it really tough because of the way that he was playing and serving, and you know, he was always giving himself a chance. I had to keep fighting and believing in myself, and that was enough in the end.  
  
  Q. What were your thoughts at the time of his medical timeout? You looked upset at that moment. Did you think he was milking it to be...   
 ANDY MURRAY: No, the thing that I was disappointed with -- I mean, it's not the best time to have an injury timeout, no question about that, but you know, if the guy is struggling or is injured, then obviously I don't have a problem with him taking the timeout.   
 It was just the umpire didn't tell me that he was taking a medical timeout, especially at sort of that stage of the match.  
 You know, the first I heard was when he announced it to the crowd, and normally he lets you know that the trainer has been called to the court. I didn't get told. I didn't see Juan asking for the trainer.   
 So I just would have liked to have been told in a little bit more time, because it's quite an important period of the match.  
  
  Q. How much confidence does this win here give you towards the US Open?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, it's good. I mean, the thing is obviously I wanted to get matches this week, was important. Obviously to win the tournament is great.   
 The US Open is still a couple weeks away, and you know, I'll focus on Cincinnati and try and play well again here. You know, I feel like I've got a good chance of doing well at the US Open, but each week is a different week, and you know, I'm not going to get too far ahead of myself. You know, I'll just focus on Cincinnati.  
  
  Q. Did the fact that you secured a spot, the No. 2 spot in the ranking yesterday, did that help a little bit or make you a bit looser?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know if it helped. I mean, sometimes when this sort of -- I guess it's not like a distraction, but you know, where you're not totally focused on the match if something else like that has gone on beforehand, you know, sometimes you can lose a little bit of focus, but it didn't bother me too much.   
 You know, I thought I played well today. I kind of put it to the back of my mind, and I'll enjoy that for the next couple of days.  
  
  Q. What will you remember more from this tournament? Getting to No. 2 in the world or actually winning the event?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Actually I got asked that yesterday. It's a tough one. I love winning tournaments. It's great. Every player will tell you the same thing.  
 But it's just tough, because I've never been to No. 2 in the world before. It's something that I've never done. That's new to me. You know, I've won a couple of Masters Series now, so it still feels great, but the No. 2 is just -- maybe because it's something different that means maybe a little bit more, but I mean, winning a tournament here is still great.  
  
  Q. How much of your success here do you attribute to the fitness regime you've undertaken that built up preparation in Florida?  
 ANDY MURRAY: That's obviously important. The thing that's quite tough in the Masters, it's hot the last -- pretty much every day, and I played every match between 1:00 and 3:00 I was playing, so it was in the hot part of the day, and that makes a difference.   
 I'm sure if I came over from the UK, you know, and training in cold weather or indoors sometimes, I don't think I would have been able to come out and play well here.  
  
  Q. What was it like playing in front of this crowd here in Montreal?  
 ANDY MURRAY: The crowd is the whole tournament. I thought they were unbelievable, like the attendance was great. You know, very few of the Masters Series get that, you know, attendance each day. So that was awesome.   
 They obviously -- they enjoy their tennis. I think the atmosphere was very good in the match, and they were good all week.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about what Alex Corretja brings to your tennis?  
 ANDY MURRAY: It's not one thing in particular. The reason I've got Alex working with me is sometimes it's nice to have just fresh ideas for practice and for training. You know, Alex and Miles get on really, really well, so it's a good sort of combination.   
 You know, it's not like I employed Alex to, you know, do something that Miles can't. It's just the season is very, very long. You play a lot of matches. In between the tournaments you've got to make sure you're motivated for the practice and for the training. Just sometimes having, you know, a different face, different input, maybe a few different views on things helps. There's not just one thing in particular.  
  
  Q. After the first two close sets, what worked for you in the third to win it?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, he obviously was tired, and I just made a lot of returns which I hadn't really been doing. His serve slowed down a little bit, and I made more returns. I served well at the beginning of the third set to make sure I stayed ahead, and that was really the only difference.  
  
  Q. When you're in London, do you still work a bit with Coach Louis Cayer, who is from here and worked a bit with you two years ago when you came back when you were injured?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I haven't done any work with him for about a year and a half now, but I spent -- I spent quite a bit of time with Louis, did some work at the beginning of last year and towards the end of 2007 when I was coming back from my wrist injury, because, you know, it was a pretty tough time for me.   
 Again, it was just nice to have sort of different input, you know, different things to work on in practice to keep you motivated, because I couldn't really play that well because my wrist was still hurting me when I came back. He's a very, very experienced coach.  
  
  Q. How satisfying is it to have this win after I guess a little bit of disappointment in the semifinal of Wimbledon?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Um, well, it's a perfect way to come back, I guess. I mean, I got asked that after Wimbledon, What you going to do? Obviously you're going to be a bit disappointed and stuff.   
 You know, it goes one of two ways. Losing to Roddick, there's no shame in that to start with. You know, I'd rather go away and become a worse player and not work on anything or go and practice harder, train harder and become better so the same thing doesn't happen the next time around.  
 You know, I was happy I won and worked out in Miami after that, and I think improved my game.   
  
  Q. Are you definitely going to Cincinnati? Will there be any thought of this being -- you sort of grabbed your hip a little bit near the umpire's chair after the match, after the presentation.   
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I'm stiff, I think. You know, I would hope that I would have been able to play for another couple of hours, but it's just, you know, as soon as -- it was a pretty intense match and first tournament back for -- well, first tournament on hardcourt for so long. The hardcourts are the most brutal on your body, I guess.   
 I'm just a little bit stiff just now. No, I plan on going to Cincinnati tomorrow and try and defend my title.  
  
  Q. Was this a record for autograph signing this week, you think?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, maybe. Wimbledon can get pretty hectic, but yeah, I signed a lot of autographs this week.  
  
  Q. In Wimbledon you can get away from the crowd. Here the crowd is very...   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, they catch us kind of on your way back out. Yeah, it's a lot easier to sign autographs when you're winning.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT