ROGERS CUP
August 13, 2009
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Ferrero
  6-1, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. To be playing as well as that in your second match back is a pretty hopeful sign, isn't it?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, that's the thing with tennis is that tomorrow I could, you know, come out and play terrible, but you know, I'm very happy with the way I managed to play today.   
 You know, it was a really tough start to the match. You know, those first three or four games lasted about half an hour, and then a lot of long points, long games.  
 I managed to stay out in front and, you know, once I got the second break in the first set I started to feel a lot more comfortable, but I hit the ball very well. There was a lot of really good rallies and it was good to get into a rhythm like that.  
  
  Q. What was the key getting the early breaks again in both sets? Was that partly why you got on top?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. I mean, each time you can start well in matches, it makes a big difference. You know, you feel like you can start to go for your shots a little bit earlier on than if it stays tight.   
 You know, I got a good lead in this one. Like I say, I played better and better as the match went on, and you know, if you can get a good start in all your matches it's going to make a big difference to whether you win or lose.  
  
  Q. When you play a guy so recently but on a different surface, does it feel familiar when you're in the match? Does it feel like the same kind of match, or was it very different to your grass court meeting?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, all of the matches feel different regardless if you've played someone, you know, four or five times. There's been huge breaks in between the matches, obviously, and you know, you can have different tactics depending on the surface and whatnot, but, you know, I knew it was going to be tough and that's why, you know, I came out with really good intensity and didn't let him into the match, really.  
 You know, that was the main difference. But I don't really focus too much on what's happened on previous matches, because anything can happen on any given day.  
  
  Q. So are you surprised at how quickly everything clicked into place today?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. Well, I returned very well from the start, and that kind of got -- it got me ahead. I hit quite a lot of winners, my forehand return cross court, and I got into a rhythm on the return, and he -- I think it was 1 and 3 in the four games that he won, and I think I had break points in three of them.   
 I had a lot of chances to break serve and, you know, it's really tough -- you know, it's happened to me before. Someone keeps getting your serve back, and you keep having to sort of fight off break points. It's tough mentally to keep going. That was one of the parts that I was most pleased with was the way I returned.  
  
  Q. It seemed pretty hot out there. You have had a training break. Presumably you're fresh and fit, but still, is it a factor to finish matches fairly soon to conserve energy or not?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I mean, you won't obviously get back into match fitness, so if they're long, then that's a good thing, as well. You really see where you're at.   
 But I feel like, to start with, the first two matches I moved really, really well and, you know, that's not been a problem. Sometimes that can be when you come back.  
 You know, I trust the training that I've done that if I do have to play three, four hours that I'll be fine. You know, that's why going into matches it's easier to get on a lot calmer, because there's no worries about those sort of things.  
  
  Q. With the heat in Montreal right now, you must be pleased that you train and practice in Miami? The heat is not a factor for you?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. Well, I mean, it's hot, but I mean, Miami was -- it's a different level to this. It wasn't -- you know, it wasn't anything -- that was some of the toughest conditions I've ever practiced in.   
 It was brutal from like 11:00 to, you know, 5:00, and that was the hours that I was training, and you know, when you come here -- I mean, you still feel it, you know, because of the matches and stuff.   
 But there's a bit more pressure and you're kind of -- in practice you can take breaks when you need to and whatnot, whereas in the matches you need to stay out there until the games are finished.  
 That makes it tough, but it doesn't feel too bad. That's one of the reasons why I don't stay and train in the UK, because you can't come out here and expect to just adjust to the conditions in two or three days.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT