AEGON CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 11, 2009
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/G. Garcia-Lopez
  6-4, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Obviously pleased with that?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was -- it was good. He started very well. He served well and hit some big forehands at the start of the match.
 I needed to hang in a little bit in the first set, but I thought I served well throughout the whole match. I gave him one slight chance where I went down Love-30 at 5-4 in the first set, but apart from that, I don't think any of my service games went to deuce. I didn't give him any break points. It was a solid match.

 Q. You couldn't have wished for the tournament to start so well for you, did you?
 ANDY MURRAY: Oh, I mean, yeah, you kind of -- you go into the match sort of looking to work on some things and see where your game's at, and it's been solid so far. 
 I mean, the matches are going to get tougher. Fish is a very good grass court player. I have to raise my level to beat him.

 Q. Is there anything you weren't happy with? It looked like you were serving well, returning well on both sides?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I just started off, you know, I gave him a few too many chances to dictate the points at the start of the match. You know, a lot of times that happens when you've never played somebody before. 
 You know, it kind of takes a little bit of time to sort of figure them out a bit, and once I managed to do that, I felt more comfortable, you know, at the end of the first set and the beginning of the second.

 Q. What about Mardy Fish? You know him pretty well, don't you?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I played him a few times. Yeah, we get on well. Like I say, he's a very good grass court player. 
 He has a big serve, likes to come to the net. He likes short points, so, you know, I'll have to pass and return well tomorrow.

 Q. Do you think the draw is opening up with Safin and Monfils pulling out?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, there's no -- for me, no draws really, I guess, open up that much. You have to beat the guys that are in front of you. You play the guys that are playing best in the tournament. 
 It's very easy to talk about, you know, draws, you know, opening up and whatnot, but, you know, Mardy is a tough player. I don't even know who the seed is in the other section in my half. So I will just focus on the match tomorrow.

 Q. How would you rate your game now? 75%, 80% where you want it to be?
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know. The guys that I played so far are good grass court players. But, you know, I haven't played any, you know, top 10 players or whatnot. 
 So, you know, sometimes you have to wait and see until you play against one of the top guys to see where your game's at. 
 I feel good on the court. I'm moving well, hitting the ball clean. Tomorrow will be a good test to see where I'm at and see what things I need to work on.

 Q. It's quite unusual for you to go straight onto the practice court. Is that a reflection that you don't feel you've had enough tennis this afternoon?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I do. I do it a lot. I did it a lot of time during the clay court season. I used to do it when I was younger when I first came on the tour. 
 But, yeah, I mean, matches are only an hour long. What, today was an hour and ten minutes or whatever. The first round was 45 minutes.
 So, you know, it's good just to go out and hit some balls and, you know, spend a little bit more time on the court. It's something that, you know, when you go onto a new surface I do a lot. 

 Q. Did you get a chance to see any of the doubles last night, Fleming and Skupsky?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I didn't see any of that. I was at home. That was a great win for them.

 Q. You got that Hibs missed out on Ronaldo. (Laughter.) 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it's amazing with the supposed credit crunch that they managed to spend 
130 million in the space of a week, but yeah, it'll be interesting in seeing how he does over there.

 Q. You did get John Hughes, though. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I saw that. I actually met him in December. Falkirk trained at Stirling University. 
 He's got a very thick Scottish accent. I found it quite tough to understand him because I hadn't been back for a while. (Laughter.)
 No, he did a good job with Falkirk, so we'll wait and see what happens.

 Q. The next match got a bit delayed by a bit of a bomb scare. Were you aware of what was going on at the time?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I went right on to the practice courts and Miles said that they had stopped the matches, but I didn't know why. 
 But, yeah, I don't really know what happened. I just literally had come in from the practice courts. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT