BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 22, 2009
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/A. Murray
  6-1, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Goes without saying that it was a bit of a brutal day to play tennis, wasn't it?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it was tough. You know, I haven't played in conditions as windy as that for quite a long time.   
 Rafa dealt with it very well. You know, he hit the ball cleaner and just, yeah, seemed to get himself in better positions than I did.   
 Then you don't necessarily want to be doing a whole lot of defending and running. You want to be in the best position possible to hit each ball, and I wasn't. That's why he managed to dictate most of the points.   
  
  Q. As Nadal's peer and someone who has beaten him before, detail what it is that makes him so difficult to play.   
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, when I played him in the past, he's obviously an incredibly tough player. The thing I always felt when I played him was that you get a chance to play your game, because he does play with a lot of topspin.   
 You know, early on in the rally the ball sort of comes up to a nice height, and you can move the ball around. He moves very well, and he's got a big forehand, obviously, and he competes great. He's improved the rest of his game. He's using a bit more slice and coming to the net a little bit. His backhand has become a better shot.   
 So he does everything quite well. It's not one thing in particular.  
  
  Q. You said at the beginning of the tournament you didn't expect to do very well here, considering your illness before. Are you pleasantly surprised with the way the tournament went?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. I mean, I don't feel like I'm that disappointed just now with how the week went, because I wasn't expecting, like you said, to do that well. I obviously had some very good wins.   
 You know, I got a lot of the matches that I wasn't necessarily expecting. So going into Miami I'm going to be better prepared than I thought.   
 You know, obviously today was not my best day, but I'll definitely get over it, because, you know, I'm guessing, you know, I'm not going to play in those conditions, you know, each week.   
  
  Q. You took a spill yesterday. Was there any lingering...  
 ANDY MURRAY: No. My groin feels fine. I don't think that was anything to do with the outcome of the match. I'll definitely be okay for Miami.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT