BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 19, 2009
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/I. Ljubicic
  7-5, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Pays to challenge calls, doesn't it? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean -- well, obviously got pretty lucky. Supposedly he took the second bounce of the ball, yeah, which obviously landed on the line. 
 So I don't think it was -- obviously it wasn't the technology problem. It was sort of human error, which can obviously happen with line calls. I got lucky on that point. I don't know whether it had a huge bearing on the outcome or the result.

 Q. How are you feeling? 
 ANDY MURRAY: I felt okay. It's hot. It was very hot today. I felt a little bit different in relation to the other days. 
 It was very breezy on the court. A lot of times on the big stadiums, if there is just a slight breeze, it does make a big difference. It sort of stays obviously in the stadium. 
 From one of the end it was difficult to dictate the points, but I felt fine. Physically I was moving well again, hitting the ball better as the match went on.

 Q. How is your ankle?
 ANDY MURRAY: The ankle was fine today. Didn't feel it at all.

 Q. Can you talk about Federer and Verdasco? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think Federer obviously is -- I mean, neither of them have played since Australia but have played pretty well here. I know he had a tough match with González in the last round, but Verdasco struggled a little bit against Kolschreiber. 
 You know, it's going to be a really good match tonight. I obviously would like to watch it. Regardless, it's going to be a tough match. 
 Yeah, I wouldn't want to pick a winner in that one.

 Q. Can you talk just about individually? Obviously you played Federer and you played Verdasco, both. What do you feel like you have to do against both guys?
 ANDY MURRAY: I played Federer a lot. I've played him about seven times, so we know each others' games pretty well. Obviously if I want to beat him I need to play one of my best matches. 
 You know, it's important to serve solid and make a lot of balls and not feel like you have to do, you know, anything special on each point to win against him. 
 You know, if you watch the way that Nadal plays against him, it's not like, you know, every point it's doing something unbelievable. He just plays solid, solid, solid crosscourt balls to the backhand, and, you know, it obviously works. 
 Against Verdasco -- I've got a very good record against both of them. But at the Aussie Open match, I think I a lost one set against him in the past five times I played him. He's obviously improved a lot. You know, his forehand is a big weapon if it's firing. Obviously try and stay away from that. 

 Q. Are you at all surprised that you made the semifinals giving the build-up to the tournament? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, a little bit. You know, I didn't know how I was going to play. As I said, I was just going to try and take each match at a time. I think when everyone says -- you know, all the players say that, but they might not necessarily be thinking it. 
 I wasn't thinking about the semifinals at all. I was thinking about the first-round match and how I would get through that and each day working on my game and trying to get a little better. 
 I have done that with each match, and with the next match hopefully I'll play even better than I did today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT