BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 18, 2009
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. MURRAY/T. Robredo
  6-2, 3-0 (ret.)

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Did you expect him to quit? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, I knew he had a slight problem with his wrist before the match. Well, it's tough to know how bad someone is, you know, whether or not it was affecting the way he was hitting the ball, I don't know, because he was serving well and hitting his forehand hard. 
 But mentally, a wrist problem can be tough. I know that, because I've been through it. It's not so much hitting the ball that's worrying. It's just the pain that's there and feeling like, you know, something might happen. 
 I obviously can't speak for him. I wouldn't like to say that he quit. I think he had a legitimate problem. 

 Q. How pleased are you with your response to losing a serve as early as you did? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I moved really well today. Yeah, I mean, in the first -- it just takes a little bit of time to get used to the conditions here. Each day it's a little bit different. Today it was pretty hot out there. 
 You know, so the ball is flying a little bit. Because I haven't played that much, I'm sort of trying to work my way into the match by making a lot balls early on. 
 Tommy was able to dictate a lot of points that wasn't sort of through my errors. He had some good shots. He had a couple big returns and got ahead of me. 
 After that, I started to play a little bit more aggressive. I came into the net a little bit and played much better.

 Q. Are you surprised with how routine your progress has been because you haven't been challenged?
 ANDY MURRAY: Today I was expecting a tough match. I had lost to Tommy two previous times I played him. I knew I had to be on my game, and, you know, luckily I was. I saved a couple of key breakpoints, I think. 
 Actually, I don't even know what the score was. I think it was for him to maybe break me right at the start of the second set. Once I held that game, I started to feel much better. 
 Each match started a little bit slow and the games got better since then.

 Q. How do you see the draw shaping up? I don't believe you've played Andreev before?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, never played him.

 Q. And then of course the possibility of Federer in the semifinals. It's warming up now, isn't it?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I don't think Federer is going to have an easy match with Verdasco. He's obviously playing well. 
 You know, Ljubicic and Andreev, I think Andreev won the first set. They're both tough players in these conditions. Andreev has probably the heaviest forehand on the tour. 
 You know, but there's parts of his game that I can exploit if I play well and hit the right shots at the right time. Ljubicic is obviously very experienced and plays very well in these conditions because he has such a big serve and an aggressive game, and the ball is moving quick. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT