WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 3, 2008
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. MURRAY/N. Djokovic  
7-6, 7-6  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Could you start out by describing what this means to you to win a Masters title?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, it's huge to win your first sort of major tournament, and to do it in a match like today makes it more special.   
 You know, I've been in semifinals four times before this week, and lost every time against tough players. This week I played well the whole week, and, you know, even though he had the chance to -- when he get back into the match, you know, I was really happy with the way that I, you know, fought and stayed in there.   
 I put in a lot of work off the court to be able to win these sort of tournaments, and it makes it all worthwhile.  
  
  Q. After the second set tiebreak, the 4-4 point that went on forever, you both looked exhausted. How exhausting was it out there?   
 ANDY MURRAY: That point was insane. We had like a 30-shot rally, and I was dictating most the point. But in those conditions, when you played so many long points and you're really going for the shot, the adrenaline is pumping. Your legs get really fatigued.   
 It was over 100. I think it was 104 or something on the court. So, you know, it takes its toll when you have a lot of long points.   
 The beginning of the second set, you know, the standard dropped a bit, and also the start the first set. But the end of the first and second set physically were really tough for both of us.  
  
  Q. When you had the four match points and they get away from you, what's going through your mind at that point?  
 ANDY MURRAY: You just got to try and stay focused. I mean, I think on one of them I maybe made a mistake, but he hit a dropshot what hit off the net cord. He had a huge forehand winner and a backhand return winner down the line.   
 Sometimes against the top players they can do that, and you need to understand that you're still in the match and you're in a better position than he is.   
 You know, I fought and just tried to stay calm and make sure I stuck to my game plan, and I managed to do that.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like this was your week with how you played from the beginning of the tournament, that things were really coming together?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Not at the beginning of the week. I didn't feel that comfortable at all. I was not hitting the ball cleanly. You know, when the first match was done, 4-1 against Querrey and not playing well at tall against Tursunov, you know, even though it was a comfortable score line, I didn't feel like I was hitting the ball that great.   
 Sometimes, you know, in tournaments like this you have to find a way to get through the first few rounds. Then by winning matches and spending more time on the court you gain confidence from that.   
 So I felt really good the last couple of matches, but the beginning of the week I didn't feel that good.  
  
  Q. You won four consecutive sets off the No. 3 player in the world, including three tiebreaks. What do you think the key to that success has been?  
 ANDY MURRAY: If you look at his tiebreak record he's one of the best tiebreak players normally. He had a ridiculous record, I think, it was last year in tiebreaks.   
 He's tough to play against. He has a very good serve and makes a lot of returns. It does come down to, I guess, mental strength a lot of the time.   
 I felt like I was creating maybe more chances throughout the match. When it comes it a tiebreak, it's kind of, you know, all even, and each point is just so important. You just got to try and play every point and fight and not make any mistakes, you know, try and put in a lot of first serves, and I managed to do that.  
  
  Q. What happened with against him last week, did you take any that was from Toronto to here?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, I just think the confidence of winning against him makes a big difference. He had beaten me -- he had won a couple love sets against me the two previous times we played.   
 I really struggled against him in the past. I had to change something. You know, played a bit more aggressive and served a little bit smarter than I had in the past, and obviously it worked.  
  
  Q. You said yesterday that you're happier and calmer on court now.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah.   
  
  Q. Do you know why you're feeling that way?   
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, like I said, in the past, since I been 15, 16, maybe even younger than that, maybe even 14, I traveled just with a coach the whole year.   
 First with a guy that I had worked with for seven, eight years, Leon Smith. I worked with him. All of a sudden I'd just find myself getting angry, upset on court and argue with my coach a bit.   
 Then I started working a Mark Petchey, who took me into the top 100. Started off great, and all of a sudden after six, seven months I got tired again and he was getting upset and angry on court, and the same thing with Brad.   
 I was traveling the whole year just with one coach. I was young and needed to try something different. This year I've had, you know, three with me every week: A coach, a physio, and a fitness trainer, all who get on very well and are very supportive, and I enjoy being around them.   
 I think whenever things off court are in place the tennis can really take care of itself. In the past I was finding it really hard to travel seven, eight months a year with just one person. I found it very stressful, and now I'm much more relaxed off the court and I'm going into each match with a clear frame of mind rather than thinking about what's going on off court.  
  
  Q. The first major tournament and I guess you're going to be No. 6 tomorrow. Going into the Olympics and the US Open, do you feel like this your time to kind of break out and break into the top 5 and really compete for Slams?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think I've started to play more consistently in the bigger tournaments. Obviously winning your first one makes a big difference to your confidence.   
 I've never been past a quarters of a Slam before, so still a long way to go. I think with my results here it showed that I have the potential to do it, and it's up to me to make sure that I continue to work hard and really sort of leave it all out there on the court.   
 Because I think I have the game to win Slams, it's just a matter of putting it all together for two weeks.   
  
  Q. Do you think the return was the biggest difference between you two today? You seemed to read his serve really well today.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, he hit a few more aces than me probably, you know, because I was going for, you know, a bit more accuracy on my serve rather than power.   
 I was trying to get him out of position with my serve a little bit so I could dictate the points a bit more. I mean, I think the first set there was no breaks. In the second set there was a couple breaks apiece.   
 I mean, both of us returned well. I think that's one of the things we've always done well since we were young. I don't think that that was the reason why I won today. I think it, you know, just came down to a few points. I had some big shots on the important points, and that was the difference.  
  
  Q. Obviously there was a lot of the buzz this week about the changing of the No. 1. Do you feel like you kind of broke out a little bit with this win?  
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I think that Nadal is deserving of the No. 1 ranking. I think he's played great all year. I think even when Nadal is playing his best, you know, especially on the hard courts, I think a lot of the guys believe they can win against him.   
 Whereas Federer, when he was, you know, into his second, third year as No. 1, a lot people didn't believe they could win against him. So I think that it's going to be good for tennis now. I think Nadal deserves to be No. 1, but I think there will be a lot more upsets than there was in the past.   
 I think the level tennis has got much better. I'm looking forward to the next few weeks. Hopefully I can keep it going.   
  
  Q. Do you think you'll have fond memories of this tournament and Cincinnati just because it's where you won your first big event?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, and I got a wildcard. It was my first Masters Series here in 2005. It was the first Masters Series I ever played in as well. I won against Taylor Dent and lost against Safin.   
 I enjoy playing here. The conditions are tough, but it's a very well-run tournament. The golf course right here, which unfortunately I didn't have time to play on this week, but it's a tournament that, yeah, I've enjoyed every year I've been here.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT