WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
July 30, 2008
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. MURRAY/S. Querrey  
7-6, 6-1  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. How is the fitness report. Maybe the knee, start with the knee.   
 ANDY MURRAY: I'm fine. I had a scan on Monday and it was just some inflammation around the knee cap. It's something that every time I have a scan it's always there, but at certain times of the year it gets worse when I play a lot of the matches, and also on the hard courts as well.   
 You know, if I play like I did, I played four days in a row last week, and obviously doubles as well, so takes it its toll a little bit. But I've got a few days off after this week and I'll let it recover then.  
  
  Q. You out-aced Querrey, 11 to 7 or something. You must be fairly pleased with the win today.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, it took a little bit of time to get used to the court. It's much faster than last week. The balls fly through the air really quickly, so it took a bit of time to get used to.   
 But once I -- you know, I read his serve a little bit better after the first few games. I started to play well, and the second set was very good.   
  
  Q. Did you also start to move well, or better, as the match went on?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I think I wasn't moving slow because of my knee, it was more the way the court was playing. Like I said, it flies through the court a little bit more, so you need to be a little bit sharper with your movement.   
 I was a little bit sluggish early on. Like I said, once I got used to the conditions I played better.  
  
  Q. Where do you draw the line, this week especially, between doing well here and polishing up for the Olympics but not going too far. I mean, if it comes down to something, playing maybe too much, too hard, risking injury, that kind of thing.   
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, for me it is really important tournament and I want to do well. I've got a good chance of moving my ranking up again this week. To try and get myself seeded in the top 8 for the US Open is key, so I want to try and do better than the guys that are ranked around me.   
 Just got to try and keep winning. The Olympics is very important, as is the US Open. But if you want to be ranked highly on the tour, you know, you need to play well in the Masters Series, so I've got to make sure I do.   
  
  Q. You got your tactics exactly right, too, didn't you, again?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, like I said, took a bit of time, you know, if he doesn't give you too much rhythm. But once I started to get a read on his serve I was able to mix up the pace of the ball and try and get it down low a little bit. He's obviously a big guy, so if you can get it -- you know, use a lot of slice, you know, he finds it difficult.   
 So took a little bit of time, but once I got my range I started to change the pace really well.  
  
  Q. Were you pleased the way you got really completely on top after the tiebreak?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, it was really hot towards the end of the first set. There was a few long points. I don't know if he got a little bit tired or not, but it's really important, you know -- I know what it's like when I've played against some of the top players in the past. The first set is so important.   
 Sometimes you can get your head down a little bit if you lose a tight set like that, especially when you've been up in it like he was. His game dropped a bit and I started to play better.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about your game, your place in the game right now specifically as it relates to Nadal. You're 21, in the top 10, beaten Roger a few times, but now Nadal is there. I think he beaten you on all three surfaces this year. Is it intimidating? What does he do so well?  
 ANDY MURRAY: No, it's not intimidating at all. He's one of the greatest players ever for me, and will for sure go down as -- you know, he's got a great chance of getting over ten Slams. There's no disgrace in losing to one of the best players ever.   
 I've had some good matches with him and come close a few times. I didn't play so well against him at Wimbledon, but each time I play him I feel like I'm starting to understand how to win against him.   
 I've beaten every single top player except for him, so when I do start to feel like I can win against him, then there's no reason why I can't do better in the Slams. But it's not intimidating.   
  
  Q. Tursunov has a very good record against Gasquet. Would you mind just giving sentence or two on each depending on you who you play.   
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I played Tursunov three times, and won against him every time, I think always on hard courts. He has a tough guy to play against because he's so unpredictable. I feel like I've got a good game, you know, to play against him, because he obviously likes guys that give him some rhythm and I obviously try not to.   
 Gasquet is playing much better than he was earlier in the year. Obviously had a really tough match with him at Wimbledon and he's beaten me a couple times.  
 Whoever's it's going to be it's going to be difficult, but I've got a better record against Tursunov.  
  
  Q. Will you force the Wimbledon match out of your head if you have to play him again?  
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I think it gives you a bit of an edge going into the match, especially in conditions like this when you kind of outlasted him a little bit over five sets.   
 It's so hot here, that if you play a long three-setter it can be similar to a five-set match at Wimbledon.   
 So, you know, I'll keep that in mind about the physical side. If I can get on top early I'll be confident I can win, but he can play some unbelievable tennis.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT