WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2008
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  A. MURRAY/T. Haas
6-4, 6-7, 6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Could I have the first question for Andy, please. 

 Q. Could you give an assessment of how well you thought you played this afternoon. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I thought overall it was a really good performance. You know, I think the only game -- I got broken once during the match and missed a couple of easy balls in that game to get broken. Slight loss of concentration and didn't play the best tiebreak. 
 But apart from that, I thought it was a really good performance. You know, I felt like I was always in control of the sets. I got ahead very early in most of them. 
 And then, uhm, yeah, kind of went on from there. But, yeah, it was a very good match for me. 

 Q. The key to lapses of concentration is what happens next. I guess you regrouped pretty quickly. You must have been encouraged by that. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, that's what I was really pleased with, was the start of the third set, 'cause he was starting to play better and he had a couple of breakpoints on my serve. I think once I held that game he didn't have any more chance on my serve the rest of the match. 
 Yeah, and obviously recovered well from losing that second set, because it was a set that I felt like I deserved to win, you know. But, I mean, I think that was the thing that probably pleased me most out there, was when I got myself in front in the third set I didn't let the same thing happen twice. You know, really took it to him after that. 

 Q. That third game in the third set lasted 10 minutes. There was the decisive line call on the backhand down the line. Did you actually see it as good, or were you hoping you would be vindicated with the call?
 ANDY MURRAY: Forehand down the line. 
 Yeah, I saw it good. There's a couple in the second set tiebreak where I thought a hundred percent they were out. But, you know, sometimes it's just worth a go and see what happens. 
 But, yeah, I thought that one was good. Served one ace right out wide as well on one of the breakpoints, too. But, yeah, that was obviously a huge game, because after that I broke him straightaway afterwards and obviously served out well. 

 Q. How do you see the match with Gasquet?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, a tough match. He hasn't had the best year so far, but seems to be playing much better the last few weeks. You know, played well at Queen's and lost to Nalbandian in a close match there. Obviously has played well in his first three matches. I think he had a slightly tougher match maybe than expected today. 
 But, yeah, he's a very talented player. Made the semis here last year. I'm going to have to up my game if I want to win. 

 Q. Before the match, Michael Stich claimed that your second serve probably wasn't good enough. Did that fire you up at all? Your first serve was very good. In the interview afterwards, your opponent said you were serving well, you deserved to win. But then he said he didn't think your second serve was good enough, although he admits he couldn't get hold of it properly. Does that concern you at all, or are you happy with it?
 ANDY MURRAY: I'm just looking at the stats here. It says I won 56% of points on my second serve and he only won 39% on his, so I served better than him today (smiling). 
 He broke me once in the whole match, so if my serve was such a problem he wouldn't have broke me once and had so few chances on my serve, because I didn't even serve that high a percentage today in comparison to the other matches. He had a lot of looks at second serves. 
 Yeah, I mean, my second serve's getting up really high on the court. Some of them are bouncing above, you know, shoulder height. You know, my second serve's not as fast as someone like Tommy's, but, you know, it definitely gets up there. 
 I served better than him today. 

 Q. Can you describe for us what it's like to have the Centre Court crowd at your back, behind you, supporting you, when you're in that tight set-all situation, what that is actually worth in terms of motivation to give that you that extra edge?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, I think it makes a huge difference, especially those times early in the third set. You know, I think when you're playing sort of away from home, if you like -- you know, you can still get the atmosphere, but, you know, the crowd's not always for you. It just kind of gives you that extra lift. 
 And then when I won that game, you know, and broke him straightaway, the momentum obviously shifted a lot. The crowd got right behind me and his head went down a bit. You know, he got -- I'm not sure exactly when it was he got a warning and stuff. But, you know, he started to lose his head a little bit in that third set, I thought. 
 You know, if the crowd's with you that doesn't happen as much. I think I stayed pretty calm through all of my matches so far. 

 Q. It's becoming a factor that you're making work for you. You are remaining very calm out there. At the same time you're getting a sense that this country is really wanting you to succeed here. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I mean, the support that I've had at Wimbledon every time I've played has been awesome. You know, obviously it's slightly different this year because there's no Tim or Greg, and I think I'm the only guy left in the singles. I think all the women are out, as well. 
 So, yeah, I mean, everyone obviously wants me to do well. Makes a big difference in the matches. 

 Q. Can you talk about your physical condition, how important that will be going into the second week. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, I mean, I've not been in this position too many times before. But I think I said at the start of the tournament, this is the best prepared I've been for a slam. I've worked really, really hard, you know, in the off-season. And this year, having traveled with a fitness trainer every week, you know, to make sure that I stay on top of that side of things. 
 You know, I feel like I'm prepared to go deep into the second week, and that's what I said before the tournament started. 

 Q. Obviously you had that very close match against him in Bercy. What do you think you need to do better? It didn't seem there was that much in it between you. 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, well, when I played him last time, it was, you know, right at the end of the year. I played four weeks in a row in the lead-up to that. I'd won quite a lot of matches. You know, he was maybe a little bit fresher than me towards the end of the match. 
 But, yeah, if I return and serve like I have been in my first few matches, then I'm gonna give myself a really good chance of winning the match. You know, I can't look at that match too much because there's a lot of things, uhm, you know, obviously going on mentally during that time. 
 You know, I started working with Brad straight after that, as well, you know. But I think I just need to focus on what's going on now, my serve and my return game, which sounds like most of tennis (smiling). But actually putting a lot of returns in the court, then obviously serving big when I need to, and I give myself a good chance of winning. 

 Q. You have just the one day off tomorrow before your next match on Monday. Can you outline how you'll spend Sunday preparing for Monday?
 ANDY MURRAY: I'm going to come and practice here around midday probably. Then, yeah, just try and relax, probably get a massage, see my physio, try and recover in the best way possible. 
 Just try to take my mind off tennis a little bit, because last time I was in this position I didn't really deal with the second week too well against Baghdatis. 
 I didn't play my best. So change a few things in comparison to what I did last time. 

 Q. What will you do differently? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Just try and stay relaxed and not get too excited, not get too ahead of myself. You know, I know it's gonna be a really difficult match. But, you know, not spend too much time in front of the TV this year. Yeah, just try and stay relaxed as possible. Spend some time with my friends, take my mind off tennis. 

 Q. With your new team, you have a Canadian, Louis Cayer, working with you. Can you tell me where he fits into your whole operation?
 ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I've probably worked with Louis maybe three weeks. It was more towards the end of last year I spent some more time with him. Right now I'm not working with him so much. 
 But, you know, I'll spend some time with him probably at the end of each year to just work on a few things in terms of coming in to the net, moving forward, sort of positioning on the court were the things I was trying to get him to help me with. Feel much better up at the net now. 

 Q. You seemed really pumped up today. I noticed you turning towards the player's box where your mom was and also your girlfriend. Your mom leapt off her seat when you hit a passing shot. Is it comforting to you knowing they are sitting by the courtside? Does it help they're there? They're not always at tournaments you play at around the world. 
 ANDY MURRAY: I more sort of look up to my coach, you know, my fitness trainers. You know, they're the ones that have put in the hard work, know the hard work I've done. They're right behind me. 
 Not that my mum and my girlfriend aren't, but that's something I've always done is looked up to my coaches. They're all very supportive. 
 It's obviously really nice to have your friends and family around at such a big tournament 'cause, like you said, it doesn't happen every week. 

 Q. Can you tell us in your own words how much it would mean to you to get that first Grand Slam quarterfinal? Was that something you set out as a target for this year?
 ANDY MURRAY: No. I mean, for me, I want to concentrate on trying to win the tournament right now. You know, I'm gonna take it one match at a time. For me there's not a huge difference between a fourth round and a quarterfinal in a slam. 
 There's a big jump obviously making -- you know, from the position I'm in now to getting to the final. It's still sort of three matches away and I'm going to have to beat some really tough players if I want to go on and do that. 
 But, yeah, I'm not really thinking about reaching the quarterfinal. I'm more interested in making it to the final. 

 Q. You talked with us beforehand about conserving your energy, keeping yourself calm on the court. Has it been difficult to keep your calm? How much benefit are you feeling from having adopted this approach?
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I mean, it hasn't been that difficult for me at all. I think a lot of my frustrations in the past came from poor concentration. 
 I think because I spent so much time at the courts, you know, around tennis, around tennis tournaments, you know, my mind got a little bit sort of, I don't know, a little bit tired of being on the court. 
 And now, like I said, I'm spending less time around the courts. I'm spending less time watching tennis on the TV and having more of a life outside tennis, which is what's, for me, making a difference. 
 I'm enjoying myself when I'm on the court now rather than it being a bit of a drag. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT