INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
May 7, 2008
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  S. WAWRINKA/A. Murray
6-2, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. How is the groin? Looked pretty bad in the first set. Did it get any better?
 ANDY MURRAY: My groin? No, no, it's fine. I just don't feel like -- my legs were a bit heavy, but after that it was fine. 

 Q. What are your overall reflections on the match, Andy? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Well, I thought the second set was good. The first set he played much better than me; the second set I had some chances. 
 I was a break up for the majority of it, and, yeah, I had a few chances and didn't take them.

 Q. The legs just feel heavy? What was the problem exactly? 
 ANDY MURRAY: No, I just didn't feel that great; that is all. I saw the physios and the doctor and felt much better after that. 

 Q. Are you just going to get a basic rub?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, just some hot cream and, yeah, and then doctor gave me a vitamin tablet or something. I don't know what it was. Yeah, I felt fine. 

 Q. Aside from the match points in the tenth game, you obviously felt you could still win the match from there?
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah. Like I said, I had some chances, I had some chances in the tiebreak and missed a couple of balls that I probably shouldn't have. 
 You know, I felt much better towards the end -- start of the second set, and the end of the second set I felt like I was dictating a lot of points and coming forward a little bit and mixing the pace up well. 
 You know, I just got to try to play a bit more consistently, because when I played well I felt really good. I felt in control of the points and, you know. Yeah, good chance to win the second set, but I didn't. 

 Q. Generally after three clay tournaments are you kind of where you thought you'd be? 
 ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, I feel fine. I mean, you know, my expectations for the clay season weren't to go and win these tournaments. I wanted to learn how to play and move again on the clay and start to feel comfortable, because he's a very good clay court player. I didn't feel like I was completely outclassed, which is a good thing. 
 You know, I feel like I'm starting to play my game a bit better. Like I said, I need to play more matches and get physically stronger, win matches and get some confidence on the surface. Then I feel like I'll be able to win more matches. 

 Q. What will you do between now and Hamburg?
 ANDY MURRAY: I don't know yet. You know, maybe -- I don't know. I might go home for a couple days. It's a Sunday start, so I may go straight to Hamburg. 
 If it does -- the way the schedule works out to have those tournaments so close to each other and have Sunday starts is -- you know, makes it quite tough to sort of get a -- if I was to go home tomorrow, you've got to be there the day before your match so you only really get one day at home. 
 You know, it's tough with the Sunday starts, so I'll probably go to Hamburg. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT