MASTERS SERIES MONTE-CARLO
April 17, 2007
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Unfortunately, Andy Murray has to pull out of Masters Series of Monte-Carlo with a lower back injury, and he's going explain what happened exactly and then we'll have questions with you.   
 ANDY MURRAY:  Basically, I had a backhand in doubles yesterday and I felt something a little bit sore and just never recovered.  Just getting worse and worse, and by the end of the tiebreak I couldn't really stand up and found it tough to walk off the court.   
 But it's gone from being the whole of my back to being of the lower left side of my back, which isn't too bad.  It's about 50% better than it was yesterday, but still struggling to walk a little bit.   
  
  Q.  Were you able to get any sleep at all?   
 ANDY MURRAY:  Yeah.  I can sleep.  I can get myself into a position where it's comfortable.  But it's one of those things that I never had anything like that before where I had to sort of limp off the court.  Not being able to walk off the court is a little bit frustrating.   
  
  Q.  What did they suggest it might be?  Jean-Pierre, has he said?   
 ANDY MURRAY:  Well, I mean, it's basically like a lower back spasm.  You know, it was obviously a problem to the left side of my back, and now all the muscles around it kind of seized up and put me in quite a lot of pain.   
 But all of the muscles on the right loosened off and the left one is -- I don't know, it's a muscular thing, which I guess is good.  But it's just one of those things that happens when you go from a playing outdoor hard court to playing on a low-bouncing indoor hard court to playing on clay.  It's like pretty tough on the body.   
  
  Q.  Given the sort of various stresses and strains you've had in the last few weeks anyway, do you think this is now a chance to actually get a decent chunk of rest before Rome?   
 ANDY MURRAY:  Yeah, I mean, there's not too many breaks in the year where you can take that time off, you know, especially around the summer when you have the Masters Series and the French and Wimbledon close to each other.   
 So maybe I'll get a bit of time off.  But this is an important time of the year for me because I didn't play so well on the clay last year and I wanted to start off well this year.   
 I feel like I've been playing way better in practice than I was on the clay last year, so I'm a little bit disappointed in that.   
 But, yeah, I have to try to look at the positive side.   
  
  Q.  When would you hope, Andy, to get back on the practice court?   
 ANDY MURRAY:  I don't know yet.  I'm going to go back home today and have a scan.  See what the scan says.  I guess I'll get a diagnosis from this and I'll know exactly what the problem is and how bad the I inflammation is and how long it's going to take to go away.  I'm not exactly sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT