PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 11, 2007
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  That seemed to be fairly comfortable, I presume.  It was tougher when you're actually doing it. 
 ANDY MURRAY:  Yes, it's tough playing against somebody like Moodie, who's got, you know, big first serve, plays pretty unpredictably, you know.  Even on his second serve he was hitting some 125 miles an hour, which makes it difficult to know where to position yourself to return. 
 But I returned pretty good today.  High percentage of first serves, didn't make too many unforced errors, so it was a solid match. 

 Q.  Good to get it done in straight sets?  Under these conditions, you don't want to be hanging out there too long on a day like today, do you? 
 ANDY MURRAY:  Not really.  I mean, it's like -- somebody said it's going to be upper 98 today, and, obviously on the court, it's the a little bit warmer, so... 
 Obviously I got doubles today, as well.  I don't want to play too long, and did my job well, and once I got my opportunities, I took them, and didn't let them back into the match. 

 Q.  Are the conditions as oppressive as Australia, as Melbourne? 
 ANDY MURRAY:  No.  In Australia, the court gets so hot there that it really makes your feet burn.  Your legs get tired easier than I think they do here.  But, I mean, obviously it is really warm here, and you gotta make sure you're hydrated, but I think Australia is still a little bit tougher than here. 

 Q.  In terms of the conditions and the effect they have on your game is it better for it to be hot or do you have no preference about it? 
 ANDY MURRAY:  You just have to adjust either way.  I mean, here, it's kind of tough when it's hot because the ball, the ball flies a lot, you know.  Your strings lose tension pretty quickly here.  You know, you need to sort of adjust, you know, after you get a few games into the match.  And, you know, I don't -- I don't really mind playing when it's hot or when it's cold, but, you know, it was kind of windy today, as well, and I prefer it to be a little bit more still, but I normally play pretty well in the wind, I just enjoy playing in normal conditions. 

 Q.  We don't know the identity of your opponent just yet, but it could be Marat Safin.  If it is, what sort of proposition is that? 
 ANDY MURRAY:  Well, he's one of the best players in the world.  I think on any given day he can beat any player.  No. 1 in the world, won two grand slams, and I think he's been in two slam finals as well.  To play him in the second round of the tournament is not an easy match.  If I do get to play against him, it will definitely be a match I'm going to have to play pretty well in if I want to win, and one that I'll learn from either way. 

 Q.  You've really improved over last couple of years.  What one thing would you need to get up in the top 2 to enhance your game? 
 ANDY MURRAY:  Top 2.? 

 Q.  Yeah. 
 ANDY MURRAY:  I think I could just do everything better.  I think that's what, you know, a lot the guys -- a lot of guys do.  They just keep improving.  You know, you take Federer, who's got a very complete game, and he did have that before he had -- you know, he had -- he played serve-and-volley when he beat Sampras at Wimbledon on the first and second serves.  You know, he could do it, but it's just about knowing how to use all of the tools at your disposal and using them, you know, to the best effect.  And I think Federer does that now better than he did three, four years ago.  And that's why he's, you know, No. 1 in the world and has been for so long. 
 And that's something that I'm going to have to learn to do, because I feel like I can serve and volley, and, you know, use slice and hit the ball hard, as well.  It's just about learning, you know, how to do it all at the right times. 

 Q.  Could you just elaborate on why you've chosen to play doubles.  Did you feel you just needed a bit of practice ahead of Davis Cup or what was the thinking? 
 ANDY MURRAY:  I think a lot of singles players tend to play here because if they lose singles, it's a long time before Miami.  It's good to just get some matches, you know, work on your return and your volleys.  But, yeah, it wasn't anything to do with Davis Cup.  It was more just to get some matches in and, you know, if you do lose in the singles, you've still got some time to work on your game in the doubles. 

 Q.  I don't know if you know much about America or if you've got a good feel, what do you think about David Beckham coming out to Southern California?  Do you think he could spur a fervor for soccer? 
 ANDY MURRAY:  Yes, for sure he will.  There's no question.  The guy's one of the biggest superstars in the world, and, you know, wherever he goes, the press follows.  And, you know, he's maybe not playing as well as he was three or four years ago, but he's still a great footballer and everybody loves him.  And the press are definitely going to be watching all of his matches, so I'm sure soccer will get more -- I'm sorry, football will get more coverage over here, I'm sure. 

 Q.  Difficult market? 
 ANDY MURRAY:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Is there a key to beating Roger? 
 ANDY MURRAY:  I wouldn't say there's a key, as such, you know, you have to play -- you have to play to an unbelievably high level and consistently for, you know, a long period of time.  You can't afford too many dips in concentration and don't want to leave the ball in the middle of the court against him because he can do a lot of damage from there. 
 But, I mean, there's ways of beating everybody.  Whether you can do it or not is a different story, and to do it against him is obviously the hardest task in tennis.  So, you know, it can be done, but it's unbelievably difficult. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you. 
 ANDY MURRAY:  Thanks. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT