US OPEN
August 30, 2005
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Some experience, wasn't it, for you, in respects?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, it was pretty good. 

Q.  How are you feeling?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I feel okay.  I was a little bit tired toward the end of the set.  But I think I did okay for someone who can't play past three. 

Q.  Were you overhydrated? 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Glucoside sodium drink, which is supposed to stop you from cramping.  I was a little bit tired at the start of the set.  I started to drink it.  And always when I take it, I start to feel a little bit sick.  And there I took too much.  I felt like I was going to burp, and then threw up (smiling). 

Q.  Have you ever done that before?

ANDREW MURRAY:  No. 

Q.  Afterwards, you did it and then it was over?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I didn't feel sick.  I felt fine.  I was just walking and...  It's that drink.  I'd been drinking a different one, which was lemon, which is just supposed to keep you hydrated, then this one is supposed to stop you from cramping.  It's got sodium and salt and everything in it.  I just felt like I was going to burp, and then everything came up. 

Q.  How many games did it take to right yourself?

ANDREW MURRAY:  I felt fine.  Obviously, it was pretty tough to go and hold your serve after taking a break as long as that.  It wasn't that I felt -- I didn't feel sick at all after that.  Didn't make a difference.

Q.  Were you aware that Pete Sampras did the same thing here?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Really? 

Q.  He won, too. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Oh. 

Q.  Could not have been a very pleasant thing.  Do you suppose tomorrow it might actually seem a bit funny to you? 

ANDREW MURRAY:  What, that I threw up? 

Q.  Yes. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, it was pretty funny.  I was just a little bit annoyed at the time because I was getting a bit of momentum.  Then, obviously, I had to stop for 15 minutes.  It's the worst thing you want to do when you're starting to get tired because your body goes down and then you can cramp.  But I'm sure I'll find it funny tomorrow. 

Q.  How many comments did you get from whatever players in the locker room when you got in there?

ANDREW MURRAY:  I didn't speak to any of the players.  Actually, Gilles Miller was the only one who said well done.  There wasn't that many people left in there. 

Q.  Nobody tried to say anything funny to you about it?

ANDREW MURRAY:  No.  Not yet anyway. 

Q.  Do you feel that goes some way to sort of banishing these doubts about you being able to last a five-set match?  If anything, you looked stronger than him in the final set. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, well, I felt pretty good, I think.   I mean, you learn from experience.  I knew that I was in good shape.  I worked really hard on the practice court.  This is my 10th week in a row.  I just won a five-set match.  It's just pretty disappointing when you play your first match over four sets and everybody is so negative about it.  And I think today I kind of showed that, yeah, I'm not in such bad shape. 

Q.  Where would you place that performance?

ANDREW MURRAY:  That's my best, my best win, or the one that I've enjoyed the most.

Q.  In the circumstances, because when he did these little jump up and down to copy your jump up and down, you may not have seen that because you had your back turned... 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I knew. 

Q.  Then there was the overall, and the crowd began to be on his side.  You actually had to play through that, as well. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Was it in? 

Q.  (Difference of opinion.) 

ANDREW MURRAY:  That's why you're wearing glasses (smiling). 

Q.  In all those circumstances, the fact you had to play through that, as well, the fact that the crowd turned -- you didn't actually serve brilliantly when you served for the match, does that make all those kind of elements to make it a great experience?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, you know, it was a bit strange because obviously got the point penalty.  I was thinking whether or not I should say to the umpire, "Leave it, give it him the point back," but... 

Q.  It wasn't a deliberate double-fault?

ANDREW MURRAY:  No.  It's pretty difficult when you're 4-3 in the fifth set.  You start to think a lot of things.  If I go on to lose this match after giving the point to him, you're going to feel pretty bad.  But, yeah, I mean, I think he had a pretty bad go at the umpire, so I don't know if he deserved it or not.  I didn't hear exactly what he said, but he was having a go for the whole of the change of ends. 

Q.  Do you think that break actually helped him more than you?  He seemed much more exhausted than you, then the 20-minute break... 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, it definitely helped him more than it did me.  I had a lot of momentum.  I had just broken him.  So I was pretty disappointed when I threw up.  That's why I was angry when I was on the court.  That stuff always makes me feel like that.  Then obviously to take a break of like 15, 20 minutes when you're a break up in the fifth set is the last thing you want. 

Q.  Did you feel disorientated when you came back on court?

ANDREW MURRAY:  No.

Q.  You didn't feel dizzy or anything like that?

ANDREW MURRAY:  No, I was fine. 

Q.  We asked Jeremy this morning, but given the fact that the Davis Cup match is coming up, I know it's the next event after this, the likelihood is that for us to have any chance you might have to play three five-set matches in consecutive days. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, the second one's only doubles.  I don't think I will end up playing three five-set matches.  Maybe I won't play against Federer on the first day.  Got to try and bully their worst player, which is obviously Wawrinka.  He's still top 60, a very good player.  But Greg beat him a couple weeks ago.  Then we'd have to -- possibly me and Greg play doubles the second day, then just hope we can take the three points or two of the points off Wawrinka, and then win the doubles. 

Q.  Why was it so enjoyable for you?  You said it's the most enjoyable match. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, the crowd were so good.  I mean, it's great atmosphere.  They made a lot of noise.  For me, after what everybody said about me at Wimbledon, after I lost against Nalbandian, yeah, "He's not fit enough, he doesn't work hard enough," and then to win a five-set match from two-sets-to-one down is just slightly different than winning any other matches.  I feel like I proved a lot of people wrong.  That's why I quite enjoyed it. 

Q.  When you went off after the second set and the fourth set, that was nothing to do with not feeling too good, was it?

ANDREW MURRAY:  No.  I went after the second set because I was drinking so much, I actually needed to go to the toilet.  Then we had to wait for ages.  I didn't feel like I needed to go to the toilet.  But I thought I might as well just go because I might have felt like that towards the end of the set. 

Q.  The humidity, was it difficult to keep your grip dry?

ANDREW MURRAY:  A little bit, yeah. 

Q.  It was quite humid, wasn't it?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, it was.  It was pretty humid, especially at the start.  It wasn't too bad towards the end,  but it was pretty windy between the third and fourth sets for about maybe half an hour, 40 minutes.  Obviously, it was dark at the end.  It wasn't too bad. 

Q.  How did you see the momentum shift after the third set?  Did you change tactics at all at that point?

ANDREW MURRAY:  No, once -- I had so many chances on his serve, even in the second set, and I didn't take them.  I had a lot of 30-All points.  I think I had a couple of -- -- 4-3, I had a breakpoint on his serve.  I think towards the end of the set, he felt like he'd just get ready for the fifth because I was playing pretty well.  He kind of gave me the set. 

Q.  What was it like to go from Wimbledon Centre Court with all the adoring fans to Aptos, to play there?

ANDREW MURRAY:  I didn't really find it that difficult.  I played well all week and I won.  I can't really explain it.  It's obviously great having so many people supporting you, but it does put a lot of pressure on you.  Then I went to Aptos, and there was maybe 200 or 300 people watching the matches.  You could just relax and play.  I played my best tennis there. 

Q.  Do you feel relaxed here because obviously the attention is not going to be nearly what it was at Wimbledon?  Does it relax you any more?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I feel pretty good here.  I like the courts.  Obviously, there's not so many people here.  It's a little bit strange.  I almost felt like I had to get so fired up at Wimbledon.  And then here, it's a little bit different because the crowd really, really do help you a lot.  I feel better than what I did at Wimbledon. 

Q.  Did you see Tim or Greg before your match?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I saw both of them. 

Q.  You said at Wimbledon that Tim would send you a text after he lost that said, "Well done."  Where they still supporting you even though they'd lost?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah.  Just said, "Well done, good luck."  I mean, they were obviously pretty disappointed that they lost.  I didn't want to go and try and have a conversation with them. 

Q.  Are you disappointed that you're not going to get to play Ferrero now because he lost to Clement in straight sets?  Maybe not feature on a show court like you hoped. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, I might do.  I think the fans came and enjoyed it tonight.  I still got a chance of maybe playing on grandstand again.  I can look at it two ways:  one, obviously Ferrero's one of the best players in the world.  My chances wouldn't have been so good against him.  But Clement has been struggling a little bit, and I think he had to play qualifying here.  It's probably an easier match than what it would have been against Ferrero. 

Q.  When you said the crowd here, you felt it was a help.  I can understand you saying that at Wimbledon there's a pressure because they're sort of willing you.  What was it about the crowd here that you found helpful tonight?

ANDREW MURRAY:  They just made so much noise, and it's much easier to play when it's like that, when they're not all for you because you don't feel like you have to please them or you have to win, because they're just enjoying the match.  I think it's much easier playing here than it is back in Wimbledon. 

Q.  Obviously, you won here last year.  Have you been able to walk around New York unnoticed?  People been recognizing you?

ANDREW MURRAY:  No. 

Q.  What? 

ANDREW MURRAY:  No one's recognized me. 

Q.  Is that quite nice after Wimbledon?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah.  Well, at Wimbledon it was nice because obviously I'd done well and everybody was very supportive.  It's kind of good here when you can just relax and you don't have to worry about where you go out to eat or what you're doing in the night. 

Q.  It's going to be a unique Davis Cup squad with three Scottish accents in it.  How pleased are you for Alan and Jamie to get in as a reward for what he's doing this year?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, I think both of them have done really well this year.  Jamie's ranking's gone up a lot.  He's played matches on clay in the Futures and over in America, and he's done pretty well.  And obviously Alan, he's played well this year.  He's gotten to a couple of the ATP tournaments as lucky losers and a few of the bigger challengers.  He's played a lot of matches on clay.  I think we've got a pretty good team. 

Q.  Are you going to make a signature thing of putting your finger to your nose?

ANDREW MURRAY:  To my nose?  I wasn't doing it to my nose. 

Q.  To your lips. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  I might not do it any more.  I'll see.  If I win another five-set match, my next round, then I'll definitely do it. 

Q.  The Black-Eyed Peas had a smash hit a couple years ago entitled, "Shut up, just shut up."  Maybe you might want to use that as an anthem against your critics. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  No.  I'll just stick to the one that's been working here.  Same one as I used at Wimbledon. 

Q.  Do you get motivated by things like that?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah.  I wouldn't listen to it if I didn't think it helped me.  I started using it to go on for my matches.  Maybe in March time or around the French Open.  I think it helps.  I'm not going to stop doing it. 

Q.  When you said you may not play Federer in the first match, that is what you said.  What makes you think that? 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, I'm just trying to think of the best way of winning against Switzerland.  Obviously, playing three best-of-five-set matches is going to be pretty tough in three days.  Chances of winning against Federer aren't exactly high.  Maybe it would be better to rest and play one of the other guys.  Just have to wait and see what Jeremy designs. 

Q.  John McEnroe said tonight he sees you moving into the top 20 pretty soon.  When you approach your goals, do you look at things like that and say that you want to get to a certain level by a certain time? 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, I said at the start of the year, first of the year, I wanted to get into the top hundred.  If I win my next match, I'm inside that with three or four months left.  You just have to take it from there because you don't know exactly how you're going to cope playing the ATP tournaments week in, week out.  I'm just going to wait and see.  I'll get into the top hundred first and then see what happens from there. 

Q.  For the second Grand Slam in a row, you're the last British player standing. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yup. 

Q.  How does that feel? 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Doesn't feel great. 

Q.  Are you more concerned for the other ones?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I want Tim and Greg to do -- I obviously want them to do the best.  But what Tim and Greg have done the last seven or eight years has been unbelievable.  I don't want them to lose.  I don't want to do better than them.  If I lose in the second round and they get to the quarters, I'd be much happier they did that than they lost in the first round. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT