WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 16, 2005
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Andy Murray.


Q.  How long did it take you to see that there was a way in which you could beat him?

ANDY MURRAY:  Well, not very long because I'd already beaten him once this year so I knew that going in I was going to have a chance, I would just have to put high percents of first serves in, which I didn't do so well in the first set but I did much better in the second. And also I knew I was going to have to return well, and that's one of my strengths.  I think in the key moments I returned very well.


Q.  Do you like having a target to aim at?

ANDY MURRAY:  Yeah.  Well, I like playing against serve-volleyers because returning is one of my best things that I do on the court.  So playing against him, it kind of suits me a bit more than him playing against me. So, yeah, it was probably one of the better guys I could have played in the tournament.


Q.  How difficult was it to have played all those matches last week and then come and play in about another 48 hours?

ANDY MURRAY:  Well, it was pretty tough because I played -- this is my seventh week in a row now.  I haven't lost in the first round yet, so I've always played at least two matches in a week.  So, obviously, a little bit tired. Again, I was quite lucky that I played against him because the matches aren't that tough physically because the points are pretty short, especially on his service games.  So it was pretty tough today, but I was happy that I got it over in two sets.


Q.  How much of a learning experience would you say these seven weeks have been compared to where you were before you started?

ANDY MURRAY:  Well, it's been pretty big for me.  I won two tournaments, two challengers, and I'd never been past the quarterfinals of a challenger before I came here.  It's given me a lot of confidence.  This is the third ATP tournament that I've played since I've been here.  To be around these guys - and obviously tomorrow I get to play against one of the best players in the world - it's a great experience for me.


Q.  Do you feel like you belong where you are right now?

ANDY MURRAY:  No, no.  It doesn't feel right.  This is actually -- when I walked into the dressing room the first time I got here, it didn't feel -- just doesn't quite feel right.  I'm still not in the Top 100.  I think it's only my sixth ATP tournament. So I'm starting to get a little bit more used to it, but it still doesn't feel quite right.


Q.  When you left the court today between sets did you realize that the players don't have to use the same restrooms as the rest of the people?

ANDY MURRAY:  No, well, the guy who was taking me there told me to go in that one, so I just went.


Q.  Was there a line?

ANDY MURRAY:  No, it was okay.  It was fine.  There was no one there.


Q.  Which restaurant was that?

ANDY MURRAY:  Restroom.  Toilet.


Q.  Taylor said he thought your style favors Lleyton Hewitt.  Do you see that in your game?

ANDY MURRAY:  My style favors him?


Q.  Your style of play is similar to Hewitt's.

ANDY MURRAY:  Oh, okay.


Q.  Do you agree with that?

ANDY MURRAY:  Yeah, I think that's somebody who I have to look to play like.  I've always liked the way that he plays.  He's very quick around the court, which I think I am as well, not maybe as fast as him.  I return very well.  I've got a pretty fiery temper on court.  So I think in some ways I am kind of similar to him, but obviously I'm nowhere near as good as him.


Q.  What has the reaction from other players been like?  Have they given you advice on playing your first Masters Series?

ANDY MURRAY:  No.  Tim and Greg are the only two that I really know.  I know a couple of the guys to say "hi" to.  Tim and Greg have always been very good.  They've always been very supportive, and they're always there if I need their help.


Q.  Can you see yourself doing seven-week trips as a habit?  Maybe this gives you the idea that seven weeks may or may not be the right thing, to play straight through?

ANDY MURRAY:  Well, I think considering I played so little matches before Queen's and Wimbledon, I don't think it's such a bad thing.  Everybody was complaining that I wasn't fit enough at Queen's and Wimbledon, and I think I proved the last six, seven weeks that I am. And obviously it's probably not the best thing to do, but I wanted to play a lot of matches.  It's given me a lot of confidence.  Physically, I feel in good shape.  So I don't think it's such a bad thing.


Q.  Do you still feel under any of the kind of pressure you say you don't want?  Obviously, we're not in Britain, but does it feel better to play far away all the time?

ANDY MURRAY:  Yeah, it's much easier for me to play when I'm far away, and also because there's not -- I mean, it's great playing the Centre Court Wimbledon, but I was a little bit over the top.  I was quite like -- I was getting quite excited on the court.  But here it's much more relaxed, and just on the important points I got myself up for it.  I think it's a bit easier for me to play here.


Q.  How old were you when you started getting to know Henman or Rusedski?

ANDY MURRAY:  The first time I played with them was when I went to the Davis Cup when I was about 17.  It was after the US Open last year.


Q.  How do you see your match against Marat?

ANDY MURRAY:  I see myself losing pretty comfortably.  But I'm just gonna go out there and try and play a pretty solid match, not make too many mistakes, and hope that he has an off day so I can cause him a few problems. But it's going to be very difficult.  He's one of the best players in the world.  He obviously beat Federer and won the Australian Open this year.  I've got a lot of respect for him.  He's one of my favorite players as well.  So I'm just going to go out there and try and play a solid match and not make too many mistakes.


Q.  If you had known that you were going to get a wildcard into the Masters Series, would you have altered your schedule?

ANDY MURRAY:  No, not really.  I was going to come to play qualifying here anyway.  So, I mean, I was going to play -- I was always going to play in Binghamton or Montreal qualifying last week, so I was always going to play a lot of weeks in a row.  I wasn't expecting to do as well as what I've done. So, I mean, I didn't expect to play so many matches.  So coming here, I mean, I was always going to play, but whether it was qualifying or main draw, then it wasn't making a difference.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT