BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 11, 2017
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
V. POSPISIL/A. Murray   
6-4, 7-6   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  When you got the break back in the second set, did you feel better?  Did you feel the momentum was changing or was it tough right from the start?  
ANDY MURRAY: Well, I mean, I started the match okay.  The first set was a tough one to lose, because I was a break up twice in the set.   
Didn't serve particularly well tonight, which, you know, which didn't help things.  And then, yeah, in the second set he started to play more aggressively.  You know, but I was giving myself decent looks at passing shots.  I missed a few tonight.  He also came up with some, you know, some really good reflex volleys on important moments and important points.   
But, yeah, I mean, I didn't serve particularly well tonight.  That didn't help.   
 Q.  Is there a reason you weren't serving well?  Is your shoulder okay?  
ANDY MURRAY: Yeah, shoulder is fine.  Yeah, don't know exactly why.   
 Q.  You've had a few early losses here in your career.  Is it fair to chalk this to that pattern?  Is this a tough place to find your rhythm or get started?  
ANDY MURRAY: I don't know exactly why it is, because in practice here normally I play pretty well.  And then some years -- some years, you know, I played well.  Some years it's just, you know, it just hasn't quite happened for me.  I don't know exactly why that is.  I don't know if it is the conditions here or -- yeah, or I really don't know why I haven't played my best here over the years.   
 Q.  In those situations when the crowd gets behind kind of an underdog like that, does that ever affect you?  
ANDY MURRAY: It helps, if anything.  It was a really good atmosphere at the end.  And, you know, it was pretty much a full crowd after the first 15, 20 minutes, so it was a nice atmosphere.   
You know, I think especially the way he was playing, you know, I think the crowds like him.  The guy was being aggressive, and he came out with some fantastic shots as well.  So they really got into it.   
Yeah.  Didn't affect me at all.   
 Q.  Looking at what happened here and Australia, you lost to two players who play serve-and-volley pretty much every point.  Do you think it's a coincidence or maybe a pattern there?  
ANDY MURRAY: Well, my results in my career have been fantastic against serve-and-volley players, so, you know, maybe it's something I need to practice a little bit more.   
But, you know, I have never really practiced playing against serve-and-volleyers in my career.  But when I have come up against them, it's normally been a game style I have enjoyed playing against.   
You know, today it wasn't so much the serve/volley that was the problem.  It was my own serve, you know, rather than not sort of getting enough opportunities when he was serving.  So I think that was more the problem tonight.   
 Q.  Did you see anything in Vasek's game that was different from when you last played him at Wimbledon a couple years ago?  You were talking about how aggressive he is and the serve and volley.  Can you talk about the difference in the two matches?  
ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I think, for me, he's always played that way.  Maybe he was doing it better this evening.  But he was maybe a bit more solid from the back, a bit more consistent from the back of the court.   
You know, I think on the grass that's -- I mean, it's very different surfaces, so it's difficult to compare.  We played here a couple years ago, and, yeah, maybe more solid, more solid from the back of the court.  And then, you know, that allows you and gives you more opportunities to come to net.   
If you're making, you know, mistakes in the first three, four shots of the rally, not easy to come in on the correct ball.  When you're a little bit more solid you can be patient and wait for the right shot to come in.   
 Q.  Back to Miami, training base...  
ANDY MURRAY: I have doubles tomorrow, I think, doubles tomorrow.   
 Q.  Do you think there is a chance that the serve-and-volley game will really come back as a force in the men's game?  What are your thoughts on that?  
ANDY MURRAY: I mean, I have no idea whether it will.  I think, you know, people have said that you can't, like, you can't play that way, but I think you can if you do it very well.   
I don't think loads of players are taught it now growing up.  It's not something that's practiced a lot.  But if there are guys that do it from a young age, it's definitely a game style that can be successful.   
You know, obviously in certain conditions or court surfaces, it's easier to do it, like on grass, obviously, and quicker hard courts.   
But there is no reason why, if you play that game style well, you can't be effective doing it at the top of the game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT