THE STELLA ARTOIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
June 9, 2005
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  Can you tell us how you feel about that match.
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  I'm very disappointed.  I think I played a pretty good match, but I'm a little bit annoyed that I wasn't able to finish it.  Because I think at 5-4, I was 30-Love up, and when I went over my ankle, I couldn't really continue after that.  I was getting a lot of cramps and I couldn't really move.  I'm a bit disappointed I wasn't able to finish the match. 
 

Q.  How does the ankle feel now?
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  I just put ice on it, so I can't feel it so much.  But I'm going to have a scan tomorrow, and hopefully it won't be too bad and I'll try and get ready for Nottingham. 
 

Q.  The fact that you walked in here gives us all hope that it's not too bad, that it's possible it could just be a sprain.
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I hope so.  I'll see tomorrow.  I don't think it's too bad because I was able to kind of walk on it.  But I think it's quite badly swollen.  Even if I won the match, maybe I wouldn't have been able to play tomorrow. 
 

Q.  Can you take any positives away from this?
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, of course.  I've taken an ex-Grand Slam champion to 7-5 in the third and I fought all the way through, whereas I could have maybe given up after the first set.  But I kept fighting, and I think that maybe I earned his respect and maybe a few of the other players' respect because I played a very good match and I took somebody who's Top 20 in the world to a very tight match.  I'm positive with the way that I played for my first week on grass.  Hopefully, I'll play a bit better the next week. 
 

Q.  How do you think you performed compared to your match against Taylor Dent?
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  That was much better, I think, than my match yesterday because there was a lot more rallies, and that match against Dent was just kind of serve and return and physically it wasn't too tough.  But that one was a lot of long rallies and it was close to three hours, I think, the match.  On grass, it was very tough.  There wasn't so many games that went really quickly.  I was very happy with the way that I played.  I think it was much better than yesterday. 
 

Q.  Must be the toughest match you've ever played physically?
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I think so.  I can't say for sure, but I think because I was playing against one of the best players, the rallies were very long.  There was obviously quite a lot of pressure, and I was trying to get myself geed-up physically.  It took quite a lot out of me. 
 

Q.  Are you kind of doubly disappointed because you could see that as that third set was unraveling, he was getting very anxious and getting down on himself?  You were winning a lot of important rallies.  You were right in the match.
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, yeah, I think I was gonna win, when I was 30-Love up at 5-4 in the third.  And then at 30-15, when I played the point and I hit the lob and I kind of went over my ankle, I could have got up because obviously I was able to walk on it.  I'm annoyed that I didn't, because I think he let the ball bounce and then just popped it over the net.  But I think if I'd got up, I could have gone on to maybe win the point and I could have won the match.  I'm a bit disappointed with that. 
 

Q.  Did you say to the trainer that you thought you heard something crack?
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I heard something crack.  That's why I didn't get up, because I thought like it could have been pretty bad.  Because I've done that ankle three or four times before - not lately, but maybe like a year or two years ago.  I been over it quite a lot, so I didn't want to take any risks. 
 

Q.  You said you wanted to win over the crowd.  It takes something to get them going here.  Must be quite pleased?
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, well, I like playing in front of crowds.  I think a match like that, was pretty tough for them not to get into it.  I tried to fire myself up, and also they helped me a lot because I was trying to get them going as well.  So they helped me through. 
 

Q.  Thomas said that you could certainly be a Top 50 player and then take it from there.  How does something like that make you feel, that a player of his caliber said that about you?
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, it's great to hear because he's a Grand Slam champion, he's beaten some of the best players in the world.  It's nice when you hear things like that.  Other people have told me before, a few other players.  It's just good for the confidence.  I think it shows that maybe I got a bit of respect off him, so I'm happy. 
 

Q.  What do you think you can be?  He says Top 50.
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, Top 10 is my goal, and I think I've got a chance of doing it.  But it's going to take a long time and I'm going to have to work very hard until I get there. 
 

Q.  When you decided to rouse the crowd, did you think they'd got a little quiet on you?
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  No, it was for myself because that game was very important.  I think it was maybe 3-3 and there was maybe seven or eight deuces and I'd had some game points, and he had 40-Love in that game as well.  So it was a very important game, and I just wanted to try and get them going so that maybe it would help me as well. 
 

Q.  Do you feel that you are ready for the added attention that will be put on you now?
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, well, I don't know what to say.  I just need to play on the court.  I try not to think about the things that happen off the court.  But if I can keep performing like that, then obviously there's going to be a lot of media attention.  But I don't really mind it.  I'm a little bit used to it now. 
 

Q.  Your mother must be proud of you.  Have you had a chance to speak with her yet?
 
ANDREW MURRAY:  No, I didn't really speak to anyone.  I didn't really feel like speaking to anyone.  I just wanted to go and get my ankle checked and take a shower and try and think about what happened.  So I've not spoken to anyone yet. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT