WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2004
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Andy Murray.  Could I have the first question, please. 


Q.  Were you feeling better out there today? 

ANDREW MURRAY:  I think yesterday I was a little bit nervous and I started off a bit tentatively.  But today I was much more relaxed on the court after getting through my match yesterday, so I thought I played well. 

Q.  What do you think of the comparisons to you as the new Henman? 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, it's nice to be compared to Henman.  But, you know, I'm still just starting off.  He's done unbelievably well the last 10 years.  You know, British tennis has really needed him.  He's been in the Top 10 for six or seven years, which is unbelievable.  Not many people can stay at the top for that long.  But if I can do what he's done, then I'll be very happy. 

Q.  You wanted to play more tour-level events at senior level this year.  What's the plan now after this tournament?  Is it going to be starting straight after Wimbledon?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I'm playing two challengers in Nottingham and Manchester, and then I'm going to play the US Open Juniors in September, and then after that it's just going to be mainly senior tournaments. 

Q.  Are you planning to get into the senior tournament here next year?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah.  Well, hopefully if I do well, then hopefully I'll be looking for a wildcard.  If I wasn't injured this year, then I think I would have had a chance of getting one, as well.  But, you know, just have to wait and see. 

Q.  Improving game by game after the layoff. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I think so.  It's just getting back to match fitness.  You know, this is only my sixth or seventh match I've played in the last eight months.  So I think, you know, with each match I play, I'll get more and more relaxed and I'll just play better. 

Q.  What do you know about your next opponent, the Korean boy?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, I actually played him last week in the semifinals in Roehampton.  I won 6-2 in the third.  But he's a pretty solid player, big serve, big forehand, so it's going to be a tough match.  But hopefully, if I play like I did today, I'll come through. 

Q.  Seemed to be quite a bit of interest around the court today.  Does that sort of give you the taste for coming back here in the main draw in future years and doing something big? 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, well, I think it's great that I've been getting so much support the last, well, couple of days.  Hopefully it will continue for the rest of the tournament.  But, you know, if they're doing this while I'm playing in the Juniors, then it's going to be even better in the seniors.  I'm really looking forward to it. 

Q.  Sorry to mention it, but it has been mentioned before that you were at Dunblane.  How do you cope with the fact that that's still mentioned now? 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, I was only nine at the time so I don't remember too much about it.  But it was a really difficult time for the city.  But I think everyone's recovered really well from it, and the town's moved on. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT