WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2004
Andy Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Andrew. 


Q.  Happy to get through it?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I was.  I didn't think I played my best match, but obviously it's only my second tournament in eight months.  So, you know, I was just glad to get through.  I'd lost in the first round the last two years, so it was a good feeling to win. 

Q.  Did you learn anything from the experience of last year?  I know you were seeded, and it seemed like there was a lot of pressure on you. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, it's the same again this year.  But, yeah, I think I've learnt to deal with it a bit better.  I was more relaxed on the court than I was last year.  Hopefully I can continue it for the rest of the tournament. 

Q.  Was your other tournament this year the one at Roehampton?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yes.

Q.  Who beat you in the final?

ANDREW MURRAY:  I lost to Gael Monfils.  He's the No. 1 in the world junior.  He won the Australian juniors this year and the French Open.  It was a pretty tight match, so hopefully I'll get to play him in the final this year.  I lost 7-5, 6-3, but I had a lot of chances.

Q.  Can you refresh us when you got the injury and what it was?

ANDREW MURRAY:  We, basically I'd had a niggling knee injury for about two or three months.  It started at the US Open last year in September.  Then I got an MRI scan in December, which showed I had a bipartite patella, it was very inflamed, I couldn't actually bend my knee at all.  So I had to take four or five months off of doing absolutely nothing.  I just started playing again the last couple of months.

Q.  And how is it now?

ANDREW MURRAY:  It feels fine on the court.  Everything feels good.  I actually injured my hip two or three weeks ago in Surbiton, which was my first tournament back, which was a bit disappointing.  But everything's good now.

Q.  When you said you did absolutely nothing, was that literally sat around?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I did -- tennis-wise, I couldn't play at all.  I wasn't allowed on the court.  I did a lot of upper bodywork, saw a sports psychologist.  I actually did a few other things, as well.

Q.  What did he do to help you, the sports psychologist?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, taught me how to breathe properly on the court, just positive thinking all the time, which actually helped in my match today. 

Q.  The knee injury, when it was at its worst, when you first got the MRI scan, were you a bit sort of scared of what was wrong with you and whether it was going to heal in time?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, well, it was quite difficult for me because I know I'd been playing through it, and the physio told me it was okay to keep playing.  And then I'd done that for three months, then I went to get my scan, and he said my kneecap was in tatters, I couldn't do anything obviously for four or five months.  So it was quite difficult.  But then after the first couple of months, I learnt to deal with it.  Obviously, it's fine now.

Q.  The physio that you saw initially, was that an LTA physio or Scottish LTA physio?

ANDREW MURRAY:  It was one from the Scottish Institute of Sport.  But it wasn't actually their fault because they told me what the problem was, and it was actually right what they'd said the first time.  It's just I kept growing, I was playing on hard surfaces, so that was the real problem. 

Q.  Have you finished growing now?

ANDREW MURRAY:  I don't actually know.  Wait and see.  I probably got another six months left of growing, I think. 

Q.  When you came here for the first time in 2002, you were the youngest competitor at The Championships.  What do you remember about that?  How exciting was it?

ANDREW MURRAY:  I was actually very excited.  But after the match, I couldn't remember one point I'd played, I was so nervous.  I was obviously really excited.  I didn't think what I was doing on court at all.  Then last year was kind of similar, but this year I'm fine (smiling). 

Q.  You did lots of work at the Casals Sanchez place. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah.

Q.  Is that Barcelona, is it?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, it's in Barcelona.

Q.  Are you still going to be based there, or are you traveling most of the time from now on?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, well, if I'm going to play some tournaments on clay, then obviously there's no clay courts here for me to practice on.  So I'll go over there maybe two or three weeks before to prepare.  But I'm also going to be in London a bit more now as well.

Q.  What about your match today?  You got off to a slow start.  Were you suffering from nerves out there?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I was a little bit nervous at the start.  Obviously, I'm not that match fit, because I've hardly played any matches lately.  But once I got into it, I thought I played pretty well in the second and third set.

Q.  Was the seeding of 2 a burden to carry for you?

ANDREW MURRAY:  No, not really.  I've been seeded in a lot of tournaments I play in, all of the junior tournaments, so it doesn't worry me that much.

Q.  To be seeded 2 at Wimbledon is quite an honor, isn't it?

ANDREW MURRAY:  No, yeah, it's really good.  Hopefully I'll be able to go all the way and maybe beat the top seed in the final. 

Q.  Is Monfils a bit of a Federer for the boys, he's that bit better than everybody else?

ANDREW MURRAY:  No, I don't think so.  I think, obviously, he's done really well, winning in Australia and the French.  But obviously last week I had a tight match with him, and he struggled through his match today.  I beat him last year at the French Open 6-4, 6-1.  So he is beatable.  I just think it's a confidence thing, just know him winning his matches. 

Q.  How do you feel when you look at Tim sort of playing Centre Court, the kind of pressure he's under, the fact that he's so much the center of attention?  Are you at the stage of your career, you're just quietly watching that?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah. 

Q.  Seeing how he goes about his business?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I do.  I watch a lot.  It must be really difficult for him because every year, obviously, the press put so much pressure on him.  But he deals with it so well.  This year obviously he's taken a more laid-back approach, which I think is going to help him this year.  Hopefully he can win it. 

Q.  Is that something you aspire to when you look at that kind of life and that kind of pressure?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, yeah, I'd love to be doing what Tim Henman's done, staying in the Top 10 for such a long time, making the three or four semifinals of Wimbledon would be great.  Hopefully he'll be able to go one more this year.  But, yeah, I can't wait.  That's what I want to do.  I want to get into the Top 10 in the world, then possibly win a Grand Slam. 

Q.  Have you actually talked to him much about it?  Do you come across him much?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Well, I went to the Davis Cup earlier this year just to get a bit of a feel for it.  I couldn't play, but, yeah, I watched everything.  He was really a nice guy, good help, gave me a few tips and stuff.  So hopefully I'll be in the Davis Cup later this year, as well.

Q.  Your brother is on court at the moment.  Are you going to watch him?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah.  He's 3-2 down, he's a break down.  I don't really like watching.  I get far too nervous (smiling).

Q.  Hopefully he stays around a bit longer. 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I hope so.

Q.  Wonder how your mom feels.  Is she here with you?

ANDREW MURRAY:  My mom was watching today.  She can't bear it either, she's shaking so much all the time.  I hope my brother will be okay. 

Q.  Do you know who you play next?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Vahid Mirzadeh from America, or the Ukrainian boy.  I don't know the Ukrainian guy, but I beat Mirzadeh 6-1, 6-Love in Roehampton last week. 

Q.  When you look at the list of some of the previous winners, there are some that stand out, Roger Federer.  There's also guys that disappear.  What is it that's going to be required to jump up from junior to senior? 

ANDREW MURRAY:  Hard work, I think is the main thing.  A lot of Juniors, once they get to the top, they just relax and think that everything is going to happen straightaway.  I'm not like that.  I'm quite levelheaded.  I'm just going to keep working hard, and hopefully one day it will come.

Q.  Did you win the Orange Bowl 12s, was it?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah, I won it when I was 12.

Q.  You won that?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Yeah.  My brother lost in the final the year before. 

Q.  It says on your bio you're one of two British players to win a singles title at the Orange Bowl.  Do you know who the other was?

ANDREW MURRAY:  Jamie Delgado won it when he was 12, as well. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT