UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2012
Nate Boyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   What was your reaction when you found out about the award that you'd won?   
NATE BOYER:   I mean, it's an honor.   I definitely read over the list of all the past winners, and there's some pretty amazing people on there with some amazing stories.   I honestly don't think I deserve to be on that list, but I appreciate it.   I think it's great for the‑‑ it's great recognition for the soldiers, and I know it's good for the University.   I mean, good for anybody involved in any way.   
I definitely am very grateful and honored to receive it.   
But yeah, it was pretty‑‑ it was a big surprise, and like I said, I went back and looked at everybody on there, and I think everybody should that hasn't.   It's pretty incredible some of the guys that‑‑ some of the stuff people have been there and have been able to overcome.  
   
 Q.   Is it a little surreal to you?   I'm guessing you never imagined not only making a team but also winning awards like this down the road?  
NATE BOYER:   Yeah, surreal is a really good word, because I really don't‑‑ I can't really‑‑ it just hasn't registered yet.   I guess I won't really realize what it's like until I, I guess, go down there for the thing.   But I don't know, it's really great, but honestly, I'm so focused on just winning the next two games right now, like I really‑‑ I don't want to say I'd trade this for that or whatever, but that's just where my mind's at right now, and it's awesome and it's great, but Thursday is important.   I want to do what I can to help us win.   We need it.   
   
 Q.   You said you don't feel like you deserve to be on the list.   Why do you say that?   
NATE BOYER:   I mean, it's not that‑‑ I don't know.   It's just, like I said, I read the stories of those guys, there's guys that have come back from cancer and done a lot of big things to raise money for that and guys that have had really tough childhoods that have overcome some stuff.   Last year was the Alabama Crimson Tide and everything that had gone on down there that they were able to overcome and really rise up like they did, and they ended up winning the National Championship.   I mean, that's just incredible.   
So I don't know, I guess I'm just really critical on myself.   I know that I've made a lot of mistakes in my life, I think, that haven't‑‑ that obviously don't get‑‑ haven't made the news.   A lot of people don't know about some of that stuff.   
But I know it's a good thing that I'm doing, and I do appreciate the recognition.   But yeah, like I said, that's just‑‑ I guess I just immediately compared myself to those other people, and I just guess it's whatever insecurities I have about‑‑ I feel like I haven't done everything I can.   A lot of those stories are really selfless stories about guys doing stuff for other people and really making a change in the world, and I don't think I've really done that yet.   I want to and I will, it's just‑‑ I don't know, I guess in that regard it's good because it's going to just motivate me to‑‑ it's going to keep me accountable, I guess, and I'm going to have to do all those things that I'm always talking about to other people and thinking about instead of just talking about them, do them.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT