HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 2, 2017
Amanda Tan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was your first round as a professional?  
AMANDA TAN: I just had four bogeys out there today.  I hit it pretty well but nothing just went in.  Made some up-and-downs but other than that, just a basic day.  Slow start and slow finish, as well, so nothing really impressive happened out there, except I saved bogey after going into the water on the eighth.  But other than that, hopefully tomorrow I'll drop some more putts.   
 Q.  So one of the things you said to us before you started was, this is your first round as a professional and you last played here three years ago, and you wanted to see where you stood and how you felt.  How has that been?  
AMANDA TAN: I mean, that first tee shot, it meant a lot to me because it was my first-ever start and the first tee shot as a professional.  But I kind of felt a bit more calm on the tee because I kind of know like what to do and what else to expect.   
So I was nervous for sure but I wasn't as nervous as three years ago, and throughout the round, I just kind of keep pacing myself, whereas before, I would be trying to look out who is out there and stuff like that.  A bit more focused this time, for sure.  I see myself improving and going the right direction, and now it's just fine tuning and getting better.   
 Q.  A lot of your friends and club members were out supporting you; that meant a lot.  
AMANDA TAN: Yeah, definitely, it's an honour for me to have them coming out and supporting me.   
 Q.  There's no cut in this tournament, so you can just build on what you learnt today?  
AMANDA TAN: Yes.  Correct.   
 Q.  So any particular thing you'll do differently tomorrow?  
AMANDA TAN: I think I'll just go work a lot on my putting.  Maintain whatever I'm doing with my ball striking and stuff, because I'm pretty happy with that.  Just got to hit the right spot to give myself a better up-and-down chance but other than that, putting.  Putting is the main thing.   
 Q.  When you qualified, your two scores were?  
AMANDA TAN: 5-over and then 4-over.   
 Q.  So to be honest, these are tougher pins, further back tees; it's a great opening round as you get used to it.  
AMANDA TAN: Yeah, I would take it but at the same time, just like anything, you want better stuff.  Sometimes you've just got to take it.  I would take some stuff I did out there today, and of course improve some stuff I did out there.  But I think compared to qualifying, I would take this first round, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT