HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
February 28, 2017
Amanda Tan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So you were in a three-way playoff in the international qualifier.  Tell me about that.  
AMANDA TAN: There was a playoff, and at first when I finished my game, I went up there, like go up the stairs watching the behind flight coming.  I didn't actually think there was going to be a playoff because I didn't know if my score was going to be good enough.  I was hearing people from behind saying how well the other two girls was playing.  So I kind of basically thought it was over, was ready to kind of go.   
And then they suddenly told me there was a playoff.  I was very, very nervous when I got on the tee.  Then teed off; second shot I hit into a bunker, and I was very, very nervous, especially since I've never played any bunker shot in the last two days.   
So then when I hit that bunker shot, I thought it was pretty good, but I couldn't see because it was on the hill.  I looked at my brother who was caddying for me, and then he told me, yeah, it's not bad.   
So I walk up and yeah, I saw it was pretty good, like tap-in.  And yeah, when I tapped it in and won the tournament, yeah, it felt really good.   
 Q.  So 2014 was the first time you played HSBC?  
AMANDA TAN: Correct.   
 Q.  How did you feel then and what are your aspirations for this year's tournament?  
AMANDA TAN: Then I felt like it was more experience.  I'm not saying this is not experience but 2014, I was just looking at what the pros are doing, what are the procedures and stuff like that.   
But this year, I think I'm a bit more prepared and I know what's going on, and what I should be doing, so I think the experience has helped me a lot and of course, with other pro events in the last few years, definitely did help.   
 Q.  So have you had a chance to talk to any of the other players yet?  
AMANDA TAN: I like kind of bumped into Lydia.  Yeah, it was nice, because she kind of remembered me.  So we kind of talked.  She knew I come through and she was happy for me.  Yeah, it was really nice.   
 Q.  So you just turned pro.  Can you tell us more about that?  
AMANDA TAN: Yes, I just turned pro about two weeks ago.  And yeah, I mean, physically and I just don't feel any different, but I think mentally, definitely a big change.  I felt like when I go and practice, you know, I felt the need to work harder because this is my career and I'm doing it for a living now.  Instead like before, I kind of slack off and veer, drift away, and yeah.  I think that's the big difference.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT