JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 19, 2015
Amy Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY SCHULTZ:   Good afternoon, everyone.   After a little bit of a delayed start today, I say little in a nice term, we are happy to welcome Amy Anderson into the interview room.   
Last week, you had a pretty amazing accomplishment with passing your CPA exam.   Today, you go out and shoot 2‑under par.   Which is more difficult?   
AMY ANDERSON:   Golf is always more difficult.   I think studying is actually pretty easy compared to golf because the harder you work at it, I mean, the smarter you get.   Golf doesn't always work that way.   
So honestly, like I thought that studying was a good reprieve from golf and it was almost relaxing.  
KELLY SCHULTZ:   You finished in the top 80 on the Money List last year and had the best status that you can have on Tour for this season.   But yet you were still studying and wanted to pass your CPA exam.   What led to you to want to go do that?   
AMY ANDERSON:   It was actually one of my goals since I started and majored in accounting.   When I started with that, I had the goal that I just wanted to get my CPA, I want to have that credential under my belt, and whether or not I was playing, it was just something that I wanted to do.   
So I worked at that, and thankfully I was able to do it.   Now looking back, I realize how difficult it was.   When I started, I didn't think I would realize how hard it would be.  
KELLY SCHULTZ:   You had a special fan watching today that probably might be even more proud of the CPA exam than you passed than your score today.   Can you tell us about that fan?   
AMY ANDERSON:   My accounting professor from North Dakota State was actually out today.   She supported me through the whole CPA thing.   She follows me online, as well, but she's probably my biggest cheerleader as far as keeping going and accomplishing passing the CPA.   
So it was great to have her out here and cheer me on on the golf course, too.   
KELLY SCHULTZ:   And of course it wasn't a bad break from her to get away from North Dakota to Arizona, even if it was a little rainy.  
AMY ANDERSON:   It's a little improvement.   
   
 Q.   Where did you take the exam, what day was it, and when did you find out that you passed?   
AMY ANDERSON:   So the CPA exam is given in four parts.   I've taken four tests in four different testing locations:   I took it in Orlando; Grand Forks, North Dakota; Fargo, North Dakota, and West Palm Beach, Florida over a period of a year and a half.   
So my final one was about four days after I got back from Australia, this last trip to Australia and then I found out a week ago.   
   
 Q.   What day did you find out?   
AMY ANDERSON:   I found out on the 11th of March.   I was just out playing a round of golf with a bunch of members at my course and I couldn't really get too excited because they didn't actually know that I was like studying for it or anything.   So I didn't want to freak out and brag on myself.   I just stood there and kind of giggled to myself in my cart.   
   
 Q.   Text or an e‑mail?  
AMY ANDERSON:   It's an e‑mail.  
   
 Q.   Something that you had been sort of waiting to get?  
AMY ANDERSON:   Yeah, and I knew exactly what day I was going to get it.   So you kind of wait for the e‑mail to come from the North Dakota State Board of Accountancy, and when it comes, your heart starts racing, because you know it says that you either passed or failed.   
So you're like, what's going to be in there and when you find it, you're either really excited or I guess you would be pretty bummed.  
   
 Q.   What's your accounting professor's name?   Was she here just to see you?   
AMY ANDERSON:   Her name is Nancy Emerson.   It's their bring break right now, so she was able to watch the NDSU golf team in Primm, Nevada for the first few days, and then she came down here where her dad lives during the winter.   
   
 Q.   You were the first group off today.   What time did you wake up, and then what did you?   How did the morning go?  
AMY ANDERSON:   I woke up at 5:00 and I got to the course about 5:35, and the crazy part was I ate breakfast and I was actually kind of rushing because I felt like I was a little bit behind.   Get out to the range and it's pouring, and so I'm like, well, do I start warming up, do I not, because I don't want to get wet.   At the same time, if we're going, I have to warm up.   
About 30 minutes before my tee time, they pulled us off and I had started to hit a couple balls.   So my original tee time was 7:00 and I teed off at 1:1.  
   
 Q.   What did you do for four hours?   
AMY ANDERSON:   I just hung out in player dining and talked to a few friends and tried to take my mind off the rain and the golf.   
   
 Q.   North Dakota State, not a hotbed of golf.   How did you make the choice to stay there, and especially after winning so many events, why didn't you come out early?   
AMY ANDERSON:   You know, I thought about it.   I just grew up in a family where education was really important to us and to have that degree and to have something that you can fall back on that nobody can take away from you, was just something I kind of grew up assuming‑‑ I just assumed that I would do it.   The reason I stayed in North Dakota, actually I was home schooled growing up so I graduated high school at 16.   
So I didn't really want to move all the way across the country at 16 years old, and I also knew I wanted to play professional golf eventually and I felt staying with my coach in North Dakota would be better to work with him every day for four years, rather than go across the country to a new coach and try to switch things.   I didn't feel like long‑term that would be best even if I got a couple more months to practice every year.  
   
 Q.   So you started as a freshman at 16?  
AMY ANDERSON:   I turned 17 a month before I went to college, yeah.   
KELLY SCHULTZ:   How many of the players out here have asked you to help them with their taxes now?   
AMY ANDERSON:   A lot.   I have made so many new friends since I passed my CPA, and they all need taxes done.   
   
 Q.   Curious if you know of any other high‑ranking golfers that are accountants?   
AMY ANDERSON:   Well, I know that Stacy majored in accounting; is that correct?   I know she didn't go and get her CPA but she did major in accounting, so we kind of have that similarity.   I'm not sure, Brook Pancake was in at least finance or accounting.   
KELLY SCHULTZ:   One last thing, I know your family, like you said, education runs in‑‑ you're not the only accounting or at least finance.   Is your brother also involved?   I know he was caddying for you last year and then went off to work in the finance world himself, as well.  
AMY ANDERSON:   Yes, he did.   He caddied for me all last year.   He majored in accounting, and being home schooled, my mom put and myself in the same grade.   So that's why I graduated early.   
So we entered college at the same time and both played on the golf team at North Dakota State; both took all the classes and we have been pretty much together, and then he came out and caddied for me.   So we have been inseparable pretty much our wholes lives and now he works for Deloitte as an accountant in Minneapolis.   
   
 Q.   What does your dad do?   
AMY ANDERSON:   My dad is an entrepreneur.   So he owned a few different businesses and is in some investing.   He really has the business mind, and that's kind of I think what inspired both of us to go into some sort of business.   
   
 Q.   What would you imagine doing within accounting if you weren't playing?   
AMY ANDERSON:   That's a great question and I don't really know.   I know I've seen what Nathan has had to go through in public accounting at the start and it's a lot of work, there's no question about that.   
I don't know if I might gear more towards a private industry or maybe even the tax side.   I think I would really like to try a few different things and then make up my mind eventually.   
   
 Q.   Lydia Ko is at it again.   Your thoughts on what she's doing as a 17‑year‑old?  
AMY ANDERSON:   She's incredible.   You know, I actually get asked that a lot, like what's going on there.   And she is the real deal.   I've never seen her hit the ball bad.   Every part of her game is her strength and it's really fun to watch.   It's really fun to be part of the Tour when she's here.   I think she's incredible for the Tour, and on top of that, she is just a great person and she always has a smile on her face.   She always is a joy to see.   
   
 Q.   What are the four parts of the exam?   
AMY ANDERSON:   Regulation, which is tax and business law; auditing, financial and business, which is just the general.   
   
 Q.   Tax is a moving target, so you have to stay current on that.   
AMY ANDERSON:   Exactly.   And the good thing about where I'm at, I'm actually not going to get licensed right away and those tests will just kind of sit on the shelf until I need it eventually.   Because as long as I don't get licensed, I don't of to keep up with the continuing professional educational.   That's one of the loopholes in the law.   
So thankfully I don't have to keep up with it right now but when I go back into it eventually I'll definitely have to do a lot of re‑learning.   
KELLY SCHULTZ:   I think if you keep playing like you did today, you might not be going back in.   Thanks so much, best of luck the rest of the week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT