U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2011
Amy Anderson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. As an amateur, you're right now currently the leader at the Women's Open. Does that feel to you? What does that do to your head?  
 AMY ANDERSON: It's exciting; hasn't sunk in. To me it's felt like another tournament, you know, just on the tour. But the gallery makes it a little bit real and they're cheering when you make a birdie, so it's really exciting.   
 And I think after this afternoon it will have sunk in a little bit more.  
  
  Q. What was it in your game today that made the 2-under possible? What did you do well?  
 AMY ANDERSON: You know, I made some pretty key putts four to five feet. I was really solid. I only missed one fairway. I didn't miss a fairway today, just one in the whole round. That helped a lot.   
  
  Q. Playing as well as you did and only having to play about four or five holes, were you nervous when you came out this morning?  
 AMY ANDERSON: You know, I really wasn't, which I was surprised about.  
 I had a little trouble adjusting to the greens right away. I had a putt, 15-foot putt, and I left it about four feet short. So, you know, my momentum stopped a little bit, but then I made the putt, which was pretty key.  
  
  Q. Were they slower this morning, the greens?  
 AMY ANDERSON: You know, they really weren't. I was expecting them to be faster. They looked and felt a little faster, but they weren't. They were very much the same.  
  
  Q. What was your first shot of the day? Tee shot?   
 AMY ANDERSON: It was about a 15-foot putt.  
  
  Q. What are your plans now for the day?   
 AMY ANDERSON: I'll probably hit some balls, maybe putt a little bit, and then just go relax.   
  
  Q. The birdie you made on 17, what was the length of that putt?  
 AMY ANDERSON: Probably about seven feet.  
  
  Q. With Nathan on your bag, your brother, how is he helping you out?  
 AMY ANDERSON: Oh, he's helping a lot, especially on the greens.  
 He knows basically how things are gonna break. I misjudge a lot of things, but he has it pretty much spot on most of the time.   
 And then also club selection. Hole 16, I was thinking 6-iron, and he said, No, there's too much wind, 5-iron. And 5-iron was perfect.  
  
  Q. How about on the shot coming onto 18 there off the fringe, was he any assistance on that? How did he go about selecting?  
 AMY ANDERSON: Because of the mountain I thought it was gonna be a little bit downhill. He said, You know what? This is uphill. Don't worry about the mountain. This is the way it is.   
 If I had played it the way I thought, I probably would have barely got it on the green. So he assisted a lot there.  
  
  Q. I noticed your coach was in the crowd, also. Was he of any assistance yesterday during the break?  
 AMY ANDERSON: Um, you know, we worked on a little bit, but, I mean, during the break we didn't really get to hit anything. So I was just talking with him and stuff.  
  
  Q. How does Nathan get his info on the greens? Has he just scouted them this week or played them before?  
 AMY ANDERSON: No, he just scouted them this week. He's really analytical, figures things out a lot better than I would. He has a great mind for that.  
  
  Q. He has them charted?  
 AMY ANDERSON: Yep.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about sleeping on the lead last night? How did that feel?   
 AMY ANDERSON: It was fine. I went home, and I was staying with my cousins, so I was just chilling with them. Went to bed. I just didn't really think about it too much. I don't know. I'm trying not to get ahead of myself. This is just the first round. Half the people hadn't teed off yet. I was trying to keep my momentum a little bit.  
  
  Q. Your cousins live in this area?  
 AMY ANDERSON: They're about 20 miles north, I suppose.  
  
  Q. Have you been to this area before?  
 AMY ANDERSON: About 10 years ago.   
  
  Q. Probably didn't play when you were here before?  
 AMY ANDERSON: No.   
  
  Q. You have quite an entourage of 40 friends/relatives following you. Does that help you?  
 AMY ANDERSON: Oh, absolutely. I love it. They're out there supporting me. Even if I miss a putt or whatever, they're just excited for me, cheering for me. It makes it fun when I hit a great shot or a putt.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT