SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE FOOTBALL MEDIA DAYS
July 12, 2016
Rosalyn Durant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KEVIN TRAINOR: Good afternoon, everyone.  Before we get started with the coaches and student-athletes, we'll be joined by the senior vice president of ESPN, Ms. Rosalyn Durant, and she will join us for a presentation.   
ROSALYN DURANT: "However beautiful the strategy, you should occasionally look at the results," a great quote from Winston Churchill.  Nearly three years after the SEC ESPN Network launched as the most successful new channel launch in the history of cable, we continue to raise the bar.  Never before have so many SEC events been available to fans anytime, anywhere, on more platforms or in more regions nationally and internationally.   
SEC Network quintupled the amount of soccer and volleyball events available on national television, quadrupled the baseball, and tripled the softball.  The results have been positive.   
As Commissioner mentioned in his opening remarks yesterday, we originally set out to produce 1,000 events a year.  We exceeded 1,600 this past year through SEC Network and SEC Network Plus.  I give thanks again to the amazing production work that's happening on the campuses and acknowledge the more than 350 students that have been a part of those productions.  That is an impact beyond sports.   
I would also like to thank the men and women in the back of the room are who are bringing SEC Media Days live to fans nationwide every day this week.  Thank you.   
It's been a great year.  Last year, Stephanie Druley and I stood up here and told you we were debuting a new football show, SEC Inside, bringing viewers new vantage points and sound surrounding a different football game every week.  I'm happy to say that that show has been a beautiful success.  In fact, we extended this series into the spring and featured a men's and women's basketball episode, gymnastics, softball and baseball for each of the respective championships.   
We also expanded on-site presence of the Paul Finebaum show and SEC Now with trips to campuses, women's basketball and baseball games, championships, even a golf course and a beach.  We provided an alternate viewing experience with an SEC vantage point for the Cotton Bowl and the CFP championship game.   
We enhanced our signing day coverage this year with ten hours of programming.  And for the very first time every SEC spring football game was available on television.  We also introduced a suite of new visual experiences in the spring, including Bases Loaded softball coverage for the very first time and live apparatus feeds for the SEC gymnastics championships.  Both were incredible complements to the athleticism of the female athletes in the SEC conference.   
We are very, very pleased with the network's growth and success, and we are equally excited about what's still to come.  We announced yesterday that SEC Nation, our traveling football pregame show, will make two stops in Week 1 of the season.   
We're heading to Tennessee on Thursday night, September 1st, to officially kick off the season, then we're traveling to Texas A&M for the Aggies Saturday matchup against UCLA.  Maria Taylor will debut as the SEC Nation host with Tim Tebow, Marcus Spears and Paul Finebaum all returning, and with Laura Rutledge joining us as the reporter.   
It is my honor to make another announcement today, unveiling the next two films in our SEC Storied series.  "No Experience Required," the story of Texas A&M's 1983 kickoff team, debuts on Tuesday, September 6th, followed by "Repeat After Us" the following Tuesday, September 13th, featuring Florida men's basketball starting lineup that secured back-to-back national championships in 2006 and 2007.   
I'll let the reel tell the story, but I do want to thank you for your time and for your support of SEC Network.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT