ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2017
Jen Hoover
Elisa Penna
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Virginia - 61, Wake Forest - 44.   
JEN HOOVER: We're excited about the ACC Tournament.  It's something we all look forward to all year, and a few things didn't go our way early and I thought Virginia really capitalized on that.  Give credit to them, they're really playing well, and I think they have a lot of confidence in their defense, and I think that affected us early.  We didn't get some easy shots, didn't have some easy shots fall that we needed to.   
 Q.  Coach, y'all basically played them even for three quarters, it was just the first quarter where their defense got to you a little bit.  What were they doing to you?  
JEN HOOVER: Well, I just think that was an emphasis coming in.  I know it was for our staff and I know it was for their staff, as well, that the rebounding could be the difference in the game.  When your shots aren't falling, you have to find ways to get extra possessions, and the easiest way is O-board put-backs, and it's something that we've kind of made a living on.  When you only score six points on 18 offensive rebounds, that's a tough night for you on the boards.   
 Q.  Obviously very poor shooting night; was it their defense?  Was it one of those nights?  Was it the arena?  
JEN HOOVER: Well, we love Greensboro, so -- you know, I don't know.  You have to give credit to their defense.  According to numbers, it's one of the top in the country, and it's like No. 1 in the country on three-point field goal percentage.  I think if you've got open looks, you've got to knock those open looks down.  They switched things up defensively.  Give them a lot of credit for that.  They try to keep you off balance so you don't really know what they're running.  But I thought we got some easy shots that you've got to be able to make.  We did a great job penetrating and getting lay-ups and we didn't finish them at first.  They've got some length so I think that's one of the things that make their defense so strong, but we're a better shooting team than what we showed today and what we've showed in our last few games, so we've got to figure that out as a team and as individuals, and just get back to shooting the basketball with confidence.   
 Q.  Elisa, you ended up scoring 12 points to lead the team in scoring.  Second half was a little bit better for you.  What were you seeing in the second half that was helping you get in there and score a little more?  
ELISA PENNA: What I think is thanks to my teammates because they found me when I was open, and so that's why I had the possibility to score tough points.   
 Q.  Is this a team that has a chance to go and actually play in the NIT do you think?  
JEN HOOVER: You know, we hope so.  I had to walk in the locker room and tell them that that could have been our last game.  I would think Virginia is in the NCAA Tournament.  They should be at this point.  We would get the automatic qualifier my understanding is the ninth seed and ninth finisher in the conference.  This team wants to play more.  We don't ever -- you don't ever want to be a team that ends your season on kind of a sour note.  These kids have put way too much heart and soul and work into it, and I know they deserve that chance, so we sure hope we get that chance.  We'll start practicing again on Wednesday and probably do two-a-days just to get us back from a little bit of a break.  It's our spring break this coming week, so let them get a little bit of a break away and then get refocused and come back together and hope for the best and try to play as long as we can.  We're not ready to say goodbye to our seniors.  They've meant way too much to us.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT