QATAR EXXONMOBILE OPEN
January 1, 2014
Florian Mayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. MAYER/A. Murray
  3‑6, 6‑4, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   From a set and 3‑Love, did you just decide that it was time to step it up a little bit and see what happened almost?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   To be honest, in my mind, the match was finished, 6‑3, 3‑0, and, yeah, I tried to play more aggressive, tried to risk something more.   I felt I had the ball pretty good in my racquet in the first set, but I lost close points or I lost them.   But after 3‑Love down, yeah, I broke him back and I just got more confidence.   
He missed a little bit more, and, yeah, he was not happy with his game.   Maybe a little back problems in third set helped me, but of course, great win.   
   
 Q.   What would you say you changed specifically in your game after that?   Did you do something differently?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   I mean, I just played a little bit more aggressive, stayed a little bit closer to the line, went for the winners a little earlier.   Yeah, today it worked out.   
   
 Q.   You obviously didn't find that the effects of playing a very long match yesterday troubled you at all.   You looked to actually get stronger as the match went along.   Is that a good thing from your point of view?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   Yeah.   I'm very happy with my fitness now because I'm getting older, and this year I could practice five weeks in a row with no injury, no sickness in winter in Munich now, so I feel really good on court.   From the match yesterday I was also not too tired, so I felt pretty good out on court.   
   
 Q.   Apart from the fact that you were striking the ball well, do you feel that your fitness was the most important factor as the match went on?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   No, not in a best‑of‑three match.   But, yeah, I mean, today the match was much faster than yesterday.   Third set was really fast.   I had some quite easy points on my service game, so it was not such a hard match today.   
   
 Q.   You have played Murray a few times.   How different was he today compared with when you have played him in the past?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   I mean, it was always close when I played him.   I lost 7‑6, 7‑6 in Madrid.   I won the first set in Rome two years ago.   
Yeah, of course for sure he didn't play his best tennis.   I mean, for him the most important tournament is in Melbourne.   He is going to be fit there, for sure.   And, yeah, for sure it's going to be tougher to beat Andy in a 1000 event or Grand Slam, that's for sure.   
   
 Q.   When you do play a player that's just coming back from a long layoff because of injury and surgery and everything, do you adopt a different kind of mindset?   Do you think that, you know, this might turn?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   Yeah, I knew before the match if I would have a chance it's probably today.   He didn't play for a long time.   Yesterday it was no match for him.   Yeah, sure, I took my chance.  
   
 Q.   Did you sense that his stamina and his energy reserves might not be as strong as he would like them?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   Well, it's normal.   If you don't play competition for such a long time, it's normal that you cannot be 100% at the beginning.   You have to play some matches on the level, and I'm sure he will play better from round to round in Melbourne.   
   
 Q.   There are a lot of Germans in the draw, and you guys are all doing pretty well.   Does that play a factor in that you have a lot of your compatriots around to train with them?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   Yeah, of course it's nice to see other Germans.   We have a big group here of German players.   It's nice to see.  
   
 Q.   On something slightly different, how intrigued are you by Boris Becker's return to the game coaching Novak Djokovic?   What's the feeling, your own personal feelings and perhaps those in Germany, as well?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   I think all German tennis people are very surprised.   I would say for him it's a big change in his life to have positive news.   Yeah, I think it's ‑‑why not?   It's a good combination.   
He won so many Grand Slam titles, and maybe he can help the 1 or 2% to get him back to world No. 1, win some more Grand Slams.   You never know.   
I think it's a good combination.   
   
 Q.   You said he might make 1 or 2% difference.   What sort of things do you think would make a difference to a player like Djokovic?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   Yeah, for sure it's all about mentality things, I think, because he will not change his forehand or his serve and his movements on court, his fitness.   
But I think they will talk a lot about playing big points in big matches.   That's for sure.   
   
 Q.   Could you see where Lendl and Becker and Edberg, who were rivals in their days, also No. 1, will spur maybe a little bit more rivalry between Djokovic and Murray and Federer?   
FLORIAN MAYER:   No, I don't think so.   I don't think so.   
   
 Q.   Just not in the personality of today's players?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   No, not really.   
   
 Q.   So you have had a tight match today.   What will you do to make sure you recover well for tomorrow?  
FLORIAN MAYER:   Yeah, I'm doing the same like yesterday.   Have some stretching now with the physiotherapist and have a good dinner tonight.   Go sleep early, and then to be ready for tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT