SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 13, 2011
Florian Mayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







F. MAYER/R. Nadal
  7-6, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How sweet it is to beat Nadal. 
 FLORIAN MAYER: Of course, it's a really nice feeling. He's such a great competitor on court. Yeah, for sure it is the biggest win in my career. Yeah, it feels really nice. I cannot actually believe it right now. 
 But, yeah, the tournament goes on tomorrow so I have to stay focused for the rest of the week. 

 Q. It seems as though you're probably enjoying as good a time in your career as you are at the moment. Is there any particular reason for that do you think?
 FLORIAN MAYER: No, not really. I just am maybe a little bit fitter mentally and physically. Maybe that's 2% or 3% more. Yeah, it gives you a lot more on court.

 Q. Your style of play, similar to Dolgopolov, slices and spins, suddenly it seems to be working against the best players in the world. It's a strategy I think that probably upsets them on the court. And you're serving very well, too. 
 FLORIAN MAYER: I'm serving very well. Mix it up with serve and volley. 
 But the main thing is like five or six years ago I had some other problems after Wimbledon quarterfinals. The life at 21 years, it was so public, was tough for me. But now I'm ready for everything and I'm really enjoying it. 

 Q. Did you get some tips from Melzer, who beat Nadal last year?
 FLORIAN MAYER: No, no, nothing. 

 Q. What role do you think the speed of the surface played in this win? It's rare on the circuit to have surfaces that fast. What do you think?
 FLORIAN MAYER: I mean, I played on much faster courts than here. There was a little frustration for me in the summer playing in Montréal, Cincinnati, like courts on ice, were so fast I really couldn't play. 
 Here it's also fast, but it's much nicer to play. It's not so hot. The ball is getting really slower after two or three games. So I think it's a fair surface for everybody. 
 Maybe the outside courts are a little bit faster, but this year I only played on center court. 

 Q. About the Wimbledon quarterfinal, is it because you were too young? Perhaps the German tennis writers were saying, Here is the new sensation in the game?
 FLORIAN MAYER: Yeah, everything comes together. Beginning of 2004, I was ranked 250. After Wimbledon, I was ranked 30. Everything changed in my life. I was 21. It was everything comes in one day. So I wasn't ready for it. 
 Some people - how to say? - can deal with it easier. For me it was tougher everything. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT