US OPEN
September 2, 2005
Florian Mayer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions.


Q.  What happened exactly with your leg?  You felt it in the first set?  Was it the hamstring?

FLORIAN MAYER:  Yeah, in the first set, like 3-All.  Then I took some pain tablets.  I feel nothing.  And in the third set, it comes again, and nothing helped.  So it was better to retire because I couldn't move anymore.


Q.  Is it something that just happened today during the match?

FLORIAN MAYER:  Yeah, it's the same like two months ago in Stuttgart.  I think it's not a strong injury, but maybe a pulled muscle.  So when you make a big step on the court, you feel it all the time and you cannot move, so it makes no sense to play.


Q.  Was he making you move a lot around the court, and did that wear you down a little?

FLORIAN MAYER:  No.  I mean, I played unbelievable match in the second set. I think if the injury -- if I had no injury, I think I had good chances to beat him today.


Q.  Agassi said you're a tough player to play.  He used the word "awkward" because he said you hit some shots where the opponent can't tell what you're doing.

FLORIAN MAYER:  Yeah.  I mean, I like to play some slice, tops, maybe to destroy a little bit the game from the opponent.  But it was I think good match in the first two sets.  We both played very flat and very hard, so it was good for the spectators to watch a match like this.


Q.  He's a little older than you are.  Do you think at this age he can still be a contender for a title like this, five-set matches, have to win seven matches?

FLORIAN MAYER:  Yeah, I think from his shots, it's no problem.  Is the best shots I think from all players. But, I mean, he's 34 or 35 years old, so it's maybe tough if it's getting over five sets.  But if he doesn't need to move so even, he can play unbelievable.  And I think with this crowd here, you never know.  I think he has good chances to reach semifinals, and then maybe to win the tournament.  I mean, in the quarterfinal now against Federer, it's this match everybody wants to see.  It's unbelievable if both players come through to the quarterfinal.  The crowd can see a match like this.

Q.  What did you think about the crowd today, some of the noise coming from the top?  Do you hear that at all?

FLORIAN MAYER:  No.  I mean, for me it was the game of my life to play this court, the biggest in the world, to play Agassi maybe his last year.  Nobody knows how long he's going to play. For me I enjoyed very much, and the crowd was very fair.  I had a lot of fun today.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT