ATP CUP
January 7, 2020
Stefano Travaglia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. TRAVAGLIA/T. Fritz   
7-6, 7-6   
Italy - 1   
United States - 0   
 Q.  Terrific service performance tonight. Was that one of the best matches you played for a long time?  
STEFANO TRAVAGLIA: I think yes because I'm feeling good from the beginning, I'm feeling good with the return first and with my serve too better than before yesterday and four days ago. I think I adapted very good in these conditions, in the evening, no wind, no hot and slower, the courts slower than practice court. So I'm feeling good from the beginning after two top-10 matches. I'm just feeling good today and I think it is my best result, of course, of the year, but of the last maybe two top-10 years. I think like a feeling, not like a result or player, but I'm very happy of this result.   
 Q.  What was the plan against Fritz and did you execute everything that you wanted to do or is there something that you sort of still need to work on?  
STEFANO TRAVAGLIA: I think I start to return very good, I try to play him like one more ball because I try to do shots very strong and go to the net and try to make a winner from the beginning, but I show him that I was solid and from the baseline, but I can did winner and go to the net too. So just to try to let him not feeling good and I think I did that and with the return too I just try to cover the best serve for him. Like I think he play best in the wide from the other side of the T, so I didn't give to him the chance to serve good. I think it worked and it was a tough match because, I mean, the level was higher, very high from the beginning, for 1:30, I don't know how many time we played, but I think 1:30. And I'm just going a little down when I was 5-4 in the first set and serve, but he returned good too, so, I mean, I cannot do nothing about that, but I just continue to play and waiting for the best moment to close the point and close the game or the match.   
 Q.  When you look at your three singles matches this week, how confident are you, has it been a case of you've got sharper and more confident as the week's gone on?  
STEFANO TRAVAGLIA: Of course every match I'm feeling good from all the shots. Like from the first match I'm feeling good, I'm feeling better of my serve, on my forehand, baseline, forehand winner, back end baseline, slice and volley. Of course the first match of the year against Karen was a little like under pressure because a lot of crowds, first time in this kind of a court, so I think I just thinking about to play my tennis and don't look outside for the crowd and for the court, I mean where I play, so just focus on the court and try to play like I played maybe a few tournaments last year, just focus and try to pull it out my best tennis.   
 Q.  Have you enjoyed the ATP Cup experience overall in the city of Perth?  
STEFANO TRAVAGLIA: Yes. Like I say 2-3 days ago, it is my first time here, so I try to enjoy the free time in the evening, maybe the day off when we didn't play. And it's very nice city, I did not go to the island close here, but I'm hoping to tomorrow maybe or, I don't know where, but I want to go because I saw the photo and it's very beautiful and I think the water is very nice, the center it's nice too, so I think that if I have the opportunity I will come back next year.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT