ATP CUP
January 5, 2020
Stefano Travaglia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. TRAVAGLIA/V. Durasovic   
6-1, 6-1   
Team Italy - 1   
Team Norway - 0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Well done on the win. How do you analyze the match and your performance?  
STEFANO TRAVAGLIA: Good morning. Well, today was different conditions than two days ago against Khachanov. Faster, the court was faster. The ball faster. Sun, so hot.   
Analyze the match, I start very good. I prepare yesterday with my captain and my coach in the, I don't remember the name -- strategy room -- for analyze the matches before. I think it was help me to start the match in the right way.   
And nothing more. I just was solid from the first point, from the beginning. So I just tried to play my tennis and stay with the foot inside the court. Try to go to the net. Just play my tennis.   
 Q.  How disappointed were you with your loss against Khachanov and then basically coming back today? What did you really think you needed to work on?  
STEFANO TRAVAGLIA: Of course play first match on center court was difficult for me, because I just practiced two times, and I just practiced, like, one hour and half an hour. I just try -- I think I just need to try maybe two more hours to practice on the center.   
And of course Khachanov is different player, more experienced than me. I think I start really good against him with two break up. After he go up every point, he take the court just to push the ball inside the court, and he put me out the time on the ball.   
I think he play better from 5-All in the first. He play better than me. I didn't go down. He just go up.   
But of course today was better for me, because I feel more in confidence from the first point, and I play of course better than two days ago. And the conditions was faster, so I prefer conditions faster. I think I will play better every day now.   
 Q.  After getting swept by Russia the other day, how important is it for you guys to get some wins behind you to try to get to Sydney?  
STEFANO TRAVAGLIA: Of course the first day Norway won against States, so for us today, this point is very important. And of course the point of Fabio, it's more important than mine. So the way to Sydney, today it's very important to win, I hope, of course. But we are just thinking match by match, set by set. So I just play our tennis and support our players.   
 Q.  Berrettini pulled out. You came in to play the second singles essentially for him. How pleased are you to do that, to represent your country and also get a win here in Perth?  
STEFANO TRAVAGLIA: Yes, Matteo injured in I think three weeks before, so for me it's very important to play for Italy. It's first time. I never play before for Davis Cup, so it's very important. Of course first day was with the big tension for me, but I just try to thinking about of my tennis.   
Of course if Berrettini play here, maybe for Italy it was better because he have another level of me in the court, more experience, ranking higher than mine, top 10, play in the big courts, so more experience.   
But I'm very happy to give the first point today to Team Italy, and I hope to give more in the next days.   
 Q.  I know you still have a few matches to go out there, but looking forward, you have the USA I believe on Tuesday, so taking on probably Taylor Fritz and that. What are you looking forward to that matchup and how are you going to beat Taylor?  
STEFANO TRAVAGLIA: Like I said before, I just try to thinking about my tennis on the court, and of course in this competition I think about Team Italy so give the point to Team Italy.   
But of course I try to be focused point by point and give the best on court. Nothing more.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT