TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2015
DeAndre Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas Tech - 59, Kansas State - 44
THE MODERATOR: We have DeAndre Washington.  We will take questions.
Q. ( No microphone.)
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I mean, you know, just the whole week, the whole preparation, we felt like we had some things that we could capitalize on with their defense, and I think the receivers, they did an hell of a job, especially down field springing some of those longer rooms, and it was just a good team effort.
Q. (No microphone.)
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: It was a light box.  You know, anytime you got No. 62 one-on-one with a linebacker, that's what you pray for, so he cleaned 'em up, it was just off to the races then.
Q. DeAndre, they were number one in the Big 12 rushing defense, had the most yards individually against them this year was 124, and that was Boykin.  What did y'all see that made y'all think you could have that much success running the football?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Yeah, I mean, they just did a good job honoring our receivers, especially out of certain formations, and that caused them to have a light box, and we had the numbers we liked, and Pat made some good checks, and Coach made some good calls, and we just capitalized.
Q. Your performance today ranks 7th all-time in Texas Tech history.  What does that mean to you?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: It's huge, man, especially being my last game in the Jones, what better way to go out?  Especially because we haven't won a Senior Day around here in a while, haven't beat Kansas State in a while so it was a good overall day.
Q. What does that mean to you, going out on Senior Day with one of the best rushing averages in school history?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: It's huge, man.  It's huge.  Really just for those guys up front, you know, definitely for Coach Kingsbury, because he puts in a lot of work the guys don't see, and just to see the excitement on his face after the game was huge for me.
Q. With how you finished last year, how much a relief is it to get this win and make sure you get to that bowl game?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: It was huge.  I mean, this whole week, we kinda just wanted to go -- the main goal was to go 1-0, and from there we will work on the next week.  We got a bye week coming up, so we got a chance to get some guys that's banged up, get 'em back healthy and look forward to going to Austin.
Q. DeAndre, did you call a little team meeting this week and have a little talk with everybody?  Did that kinda help refocus everybody?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Yeah it was a players only meeting, guys just, whatever they had they had on their chest, they had an opportunity to say it.  I think it was needed, and I'm glad the guys responded well this week at practice.
Q. What day was that?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Monday.
Q. Monday?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Yes, sir.
Q. Did it help clear the air?
COACH KINGSBURY: Yeah, like I say, it gave everybody the opportunity playerwise to speak their feelings, speak on anything they had on their mind, and I think it was needed, and like I said, we responded well, you know, with what we discussed.
Q. What do you see for the future here at running back position?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: It's scary, man, I mean, it's scary, because it's really just the beginning, you know?  I feel like, you know, from here on out these guys can have a thousand yard rusher for a long time, especially in this offense, especially with the skills we got in the running back room, so it's scary to know it's just the beginning.
Q. (No microphone.)
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: No, I mean, just staying strong with adversity.  We've been through at adversity all year, and we haven't handled it well, and that was one of the things we addressed in the meeting, you know, we gotta know how to handle adversity and finish games, so I'm glad we was able to put it away.
Q. (No microphone.)
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I don't.  I don't.
Q. When you look at today, was it worth it, the last five years of what you put in to kinda cap everything off with day like today?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Yeah, it was -- like I say, it was definitely a good feeling.  We got two more games guaranteed so definitely be better to go out and get a win, but going out Senior Day, for those seniors, the guys we came in with and the things we went through, our five years being here, was definitely a warm feeling getting a win.
Q. You had 27 carries on Senior Day, I'm sure you probably had so much adrenaline, you are probably feeling great but how is your body feeling?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: You know, feel like week 11, but we gonna keep pushing.  It's always a lot easier when you get a "W" so feeling pretty good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT