TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 2, 2015
DeAndre Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. DeAndre, are you seeing different things from your teammates as far as the response to adversity from a year ago?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Yeah, teams night and day, just the whole overall morale of the team.  But it's different from last year.
Q. Is there part of you that looks at this last month that says you want to leave this in a better place here before your playing days here are done?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Definitely.  With it being the last year, you definitely would like to go out on a high note.  We definitely got the opportunity to do that in these next two games.
Q. When you see a guy like Jakeem making the plays that he does, does it take a burden off your back knowing that you don't have to try to carry the team?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: He's been making those plays since he's been here.  It's not really surprising to me.  I've seen him make those type of plays on a year-in and day-in basis.  I wouldn't say it's taking the burden off me, but it's good to see him making those plays.
Q. The chip on his shoulder that he plays with, has that been contagious the last four years?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Jakeem?  Yeah, he's a smart guy.  He hears it a lot about what he can't do and what he's not supposed to be able to do.  He continues to turn heads.  Me being a smaller guy myself, it's kind of motivating and also exciting to see him go out there and making those plays.  It definitely goes down to the rest of our team.
Q. What's tough?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: It's a rowdy environment.  They're going to let you hear it all.  They won't hold back.  But it's a fun place to be.  It's a good away venue, but it's a tough environment.
Q. Have you come out with the same, what Coach Kingsbury said, after you lose (Indiscernible) or lack there of?  It's technically 12, but 11 our time.  How do you keep your team in that as well?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I think we did a good job of starting fast this week.  Just didn't finish how we'd like to finish.  But definitely got to start fast with it being the early game and on the road.
Q. Does it help that you guys have been there and had success and you came out victorious?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: It's definitely something to keep in your back pocket.  But it's a totally different year, totally different team.  So, not really.
Q. You guys have played elite teams in the Big 12.  You're all done with them now.  What's it going to take to get over the hump and win those games in the future?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: In the future?  Oh, Coach Kingsbury, he has a great plan.  But really it's a week-in, week-out basis.  You can't look so much at looking at the whole season.  You have to take it a day at a time and play the process.  Everything else will take care of itself.
Q. What is the mood of the team now after you led the number 12 team in the country at 10 points at halftime and then didn't pull it through in the second half?  How does the team feel?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: It was tough.  Going into that locker room after the game was over.  But like I said, we have an opportunity this week to make amends and finish the season off on a high note.
Q. Are these the most physical linebackers that you've played against all year?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: West Virginia?
Q. Yes.
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: They definitely have some good linebackers.  I think it would be tough to say they're the most physical.
Q. Is there a Big 12 linebacker you meet in the hallway and say this guy's not that big?  Does that ever happen?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: No.
Q. Most of them are lifting weights, I guess?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Yeah.
Q. (Indiscernible) Oklahoma-Oklahoma State kind of separate themselves and just the top 5.  Which of those teams do you feel like is the best?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I mean, they're all pretty good.  They all bring a little something different.  So it will be interesting to see how it winds up in the end.
Q. On the verge of becoming the first running back to have back-to-back thousand yard seasons in almost 20 years.  What are your thoughts on the impact you've left on this program, and particularly coming back from the injury you've had?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: It's been fun.  Man, it's definitely been a journey from freshman year coming in here, getting hurt.  Coming back from the injury.  So at this point now just trying to set the bar as high as I can for the young guys so they can definitely come in and try to break my record.  I mean, some day.  It's been fun.  I've enjoyed it.  I look forward to going out on a high note.
Q. Coming into it, I'm sure you probably expected a lot of yardage in the air and on the ground.  Did you ever envision a chance for a thousand-yard rushing exclusive season?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I did.
Q. You were recruited by different guys.  Is that something they mentioned to you?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Definitely.  Coming in with Tubbs being here and Coach Skye was our running back coach at the time.  It was a strong recruiting tactic he used.  Just to see it happen five years later is a blessing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT