TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 10, 2015
DeAndre Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Iowa State - 31
  Texas Tech - 66
Q. Why is the running game working so well this year in your opinion?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Got to give credit to those guys up front.  They do a good job creating those paths and just having Pat back there just adds an extra dimension to our running game.  Just been huge for us.
Q. How big was the (inaudible)?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I think it's huge, just because just the momentum it gives the whole team.  I think it definitely trickles down, especially with the defense when we go out there and get those big plays, and it's definitely a momentum killer for the opposing team.  It's been huge for us all year, and we're just looking forward to keeping it going.
Q. I guess some of the big plays you guys had, I guess a lot of them were in space.  Is that something that you guys enjoy doing?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Yeah, I think with our personnel we definitely have some players who definitely work well in space, and coach King does a great job creating those opportunities for those players, and we just try to take advantage.
Q. Coming off three pretty emotional weeks, were you concerned in practice this week that the team might be up as they should be for this week?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Not at all.  I think we've got a great group of leaders.  We've set our goals all season, and we knew that three game stretch was going to be tough.  In regards to the outcome we definitely felt like it was a lot of football to be played after those three games, and at this point we're trying to take it one week at a time and just climb our way up.
Q. How satisfying is it for you to see the guys that don't get to play, play?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: It was huge, man.  I told some of you guys about it in the off season, just when you get a chance to get on that field it's going to be special.  Today was his birthday, so it was definitely a good feeling just to see him go out there and be able to make that happen.
Q. You said in the past this offense is a special group.  Y'all set a new record for total yards today.  Just your reaction to that?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I think it's huge, man.  I think the sky's the limit.  We've still got a bunch of football left, so I'm interested to see what else can be accomplished.
Q. In terms of early momentum, how big was it to get good field position?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: That was huge, too, because we focus on starting fast.  That was one of our main concepts coming into this game, starting fast, applying the pressure early, and Tevin made a good job on the ball and got us going, got the whole team going.
Q. Talking to guys on the team (inaudible) that you bring to the team.  Just looking at what (inaudible) running backs what do you see for the future of justice?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: It's going to be huge.  He's just a dynamic playmaker.  Every time you get the ball in his hands, he can go yard.  I think as he continues to work on his game and continues just to get comfortable it's going to be huge.  He's going to be definitely a household name around here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT