TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 5, 2015
DeAndre Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
An Interview With:   
DEANDRE WASHINGTON   
 Q.  What do you take from your performance?  
DEANDRE WASHINGTON: I think they did a good job with the defensive scheme kind of holding the run game to a minimum.  So kudos to them.   
 Q.  Was that a product of what they were doing on the front or was it just because you guys were having to play from behind so much?  
DEANDRE WASHINGTON: A little bit of both.  They did a good job.  Definitely got some good players up front.  Kind of made a hole for us, and you know, getting down early kind of took us out of our game plan a little bit.   
 Q.  What was that game plan?  
DEANDRE WASHINGTON: I mean just, you know, score points but when you get down like that, you can't be as bad as you would like to be.   
 Q.  What have you seen from Iowa State's front line?  
DEANDRE WASHINGTON: You know, they're better from last year.  You know, it's home coming, so I'm sure Coach Rhoads and the gang will definitely be coming in and try to sabotage that.  I think we just gotta get back to our game plan.  Play our ball, and everything should take care of itself.   
 Q.  You had a chance to be on the all-time rushing list.  What will that mean to you in your conference?  
DEANDRE WASHINGTON: I mean it would be nice.  It would be huge, especially being a running back at Texas Tech.  But just want to get this win first.   
 Q.  As one of the leaders on the team, how do you prevent a letdown after playing consecutive possible Top-25 teams to playing what is perceived to be a win on the schedule?  
DEANDRE WASHINGTON: I mean we knew going in for that three-game stretch between Arkansas and finishing off with Baylor was going to be tough.  Definitely not the outcome we wanted coming out of those three games.  But I think we definitely could take a lot from those three games.  Definitely have something to build off of.  We feel like we could have won a few of those games.  But like I said there's a lot of ball to be played, a lot of ball games, so starting this week we have the opportunity to get back on track and kind of gotta take it one week at a time and see what happens.   
 Q.  Do you sense excitement with the team still or do you sense -- compared to where you were at this point in time last year?  
DEANDRE WASHINGTON: Actually I love the morale that the team is at right now.  I think early on we've definitely been battle tested.  It's been huge to see how these guys respond, especially the young guys.  It's easy to kind of put your head down and go into the sink.  After losing two games especially we feel like we could have won those games, but like I said, there's a lot of ball left to be played and with the Big 12 you can see that anything can happen any given week.  So I think the guys will be ready to go and we look forward to getting back on track this week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT