TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 26, 2015
DeAndre Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TCU - 55
  Texas Tech - 52
Q. Can you just talk about the ballgame?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I mean, it's definitely tough, man, just played that game to the end, and how it ended, I just feel like that's a tough one.  But you know, we've still got a long season to go.
Q. Can you talk about that final play, how much y'all practiced that?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Yeah, we practiced it a lot, every week, just for situations like that.  Then we just came up a little short.
Q. You were on the sideline, 4th down, your defense was out there for the play of the game.  What's that helpless feeling like?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I mean, I had full faith in those guys, and you know, 22, he was just in the right place at the right time.  I think you couldn't have better coverage than that.  It's sometimes that's just how the dice roll.  You've just got to take it to the chin and move forward.
Q. You had a big day personally.  I know you'd trade it all for a win, but can you talk about your performance and what you did today?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I think the O-line did a great job, but really those receivers, they did a tremendous job on the perimeter, and getting to that second level, we were able to just make some plays, but like you said, I would definitely trade it back for a win.
Q. When y'all get the ball back with 4 minutes and 44 seconds left, can you talk about what happened there?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Just didn't get the 1st down.  I think we didn't put the pressure on them to keep the clock going.  You know, we've got to execute that better.  We practice that every day, as well, for our four-minute offense, our two-minute offense, and we just didn't get the job done.
Q. How do you make sure you don't get too down after a loss like this?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I think we can take a lot away from this game, honestly.  I think we played a good game.  Unfortunately it didn't go our way, but I definitely think we can take a lot from this game and build on it going into next week.  We've got another big game in Jerry's World.  The stage is big, another top-five team, and it's a conference game, so I think we'll be amped up enough for that.
Q. What's the next step for this team going forward?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: I think just being consistent.  Never being too high, never being too low.  We'll let this one go tonight, and come tomorrow we'll focus on Baylor.  So just keep the consistency.  It's a long season; it's only the fourth game of the year.  We still have a lot of football left, so just staying consistent.
Q. Can you talk about Pat's performance today and maybe how inspiring that was for you and your teammates?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Pat is a soldier, just the energy he plays with, the spirit.  Not only does he get the offense going, he gets the whole team going.  Just to see him going out there, sacrificing his body the way he does and making those special plays, man, it's an energy you can't really explain.  Like I say, he's a soldier.  I'm glad we got him as our quarterback.
Q. Speaking of energy, did you get energy from the crowd tonight?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Definitely, and I think one of the best atmospheres I've played in at Jones in my five years being here.  They did a great job even sticking with us through the bad weather.  I wasn't surprised.  I knew it was going to be a rowdy environment, and I expect that from our fans.
Q. What did you see on the safety?
DeANDRE WASHINGTON: Really, well, the center just said that the defense was calling out the snap count, and it was just a miscommunication.  That was our fault; just got to be more mentally tough.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT