NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 15, 2017
Marc-Andre Fleury
Olli Maatta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Pittsburgh-1, Ottawa-0   
 Q.  Olli, you guys played five deep for most of the night.  What can you say about the effort from the group back there and about the team in general playing without Rusty in up top, as well, and Horny?  
OLLI MAATTA: Well, again, I think our strength is our depth.  It happens.  It's part of hockey.  It's obviously unfortunate (indiscernible).  Again, he did a great job.  There's always the next guy who's going to step up.  Everybody has to play a little more minutes.  I don't think it really matters.  We have so many good players in here.   
 Q.  Olli, was it a concerted effort to pinch into the zone, take a few more chances from the "D" to keep the puck in the offensive zone tonight?  
OLLI MAATTA: I think we did a good job with that.  That's when we're dangerous and that's when we're at our best when we play in the offensive zone.   
 Q.  Marc-Andre, we're easily entertained by Phil Kessel, watching him yelling and so engaged on the bench.  As a teammate, what goes through your mind when you see Phil that engaged on the bench?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: I don't know.  I'm not real sure.  I'll have to watch the replay on that.  No, when Phil is emotional in the game, he's into it, and he's a threat out there.  Again, tonight he came up big for us.   
 Q.  Olli, on the goal, like you guys have talked a lot about getting through the neutral zone against Ottawa.  I wonder your thoughts on how Geno sort of went about that on that play.  
OLLI MAATTA: I think that's why he's one of the best.  He can do that.  It's pretty impressive.  And I think Phil did a great job just staying with it.  I know the first one got blocked, but he stayed with it and got the second one.   
 Q.  Marc-Andre, I think at one point Ottawa went like 15 minutes without a shot.  What do you do when there's just no pucks coming your way for that long?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Wait (laughter).  I don't know.  I try to skate in the corners, stretch out, move around, just try to stay loose.  I try to talk to the guys when they come by.  Trying to just keep my head into it.  I always expected them to give a push there at the end, especially with us getting that goal there.   
 Q.  Flower, from facing Phil in practice, what's unique about his shot, about his release?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: He's got a good shot.  It's quick.  It comes off the stick quick.  It can take corners, you know.  I think the goal tonight is just two shots in a row pretty quickly.  It's come faster than that, and that's why he was able to score.   
 Q.  This might sound silly, but you had one of the best seats in the house as you saw guys attacking and pressuring.  What did you see that was maybe different from Game 1 in your team?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: I think it was just the patience, showing up for 60 minutes.  We knew what to expect from them, and we stuck with it.  We kept playing our game.  Everybody talks about how good of a defense they are, but tonight we had the puck so much, and we didn't give them much.  I thought we controlled the play from start to finish.   
 Q.  I think the last five, they really came at you hard.  How long did those last minutes feel, and how much were you kind of expecting that?  
MARC-ANDRE FLEURY: Like I said, I was expecting that they would give a push there at the end.  But everybody as a team buckled under good, and we were able to fight them off.  It was a good feeling to win that one.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT