CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: ALABAMA VS OKLAHOMA
December 26, 2018
Amani Bledsoe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's gotten into you the last few games of the season?  Seems like you're really stepping things up.  Is it anything to do with that this might be coming to an end?  
AMANI BLEDSOE: I mean, that would definitely play a role into it, knowing towards the end of the season, towards the end of your career.  But at the end of the day, it's just the execution and the preparation for each game, how well you're going to prepare mentally and physically and spiritually for the game at hand.  Things like that.   
 Q.  What's better about your preparation?  
AMANI BLEDSOE: I'd just say how much I've matured since even freshman year.  Like little details to look at, how you break down film and how you attack each rep in practice.  That's ultimately going to translate to the game.  It could be the most minor detail, an inch, you overstep an inch to the right too much, hand placement is off an inch.  Those are big things that matter in games like these.   
 Q.  How much does having an offensive line like you guys have prepare you for a game like this?  Alabama has obviously got a very good offensive line, too.  
AMANI BLEDSOE: Of course it helps us in every game.  They're a real physical and talented group up front, and it's exciting to go against them every day in practice.   
 Q.  Do the coaches set it up where you're going more good-on-good to prepare you for a game like this?  
AMANI BLEDSOE: We have our days where we go more good-on-good, but yeah, like I said, a real talented group, and they've definitely helped us become better just as much as we've helped them become better.   
 Q.  When they have a player that has been suspended that was a starter, do you have to wipe that out of your mind?  Do you have to act like that didn't even happen so you don't --  
AMANI BLEDSOE: I mean, you still kind of prepare the same way.  I guess it's just different film you watch of the game knowing that that player won't be in the game.  But you still prepare with the same intensity, with the same details like hand placement, footwork, things like that.   
 Q.  What have you seen from Alabama's offense and what is it that makes them unique as an offense?  
AMANI BLEDSOE: Very gifted group as a whole.  They play real physical, and they play as one, which I think definitely helps on offense and defense when you're able to like communicate and play as one group, and everybody is on the same page.   
 Q.  Do they remind you of anybody offensively that you guys have played already as far as what they do?  
AMANI BLEDSOE: Maybe West V.  That's the only team I can think of.  But yeah, West V was another talented group as a whole offensively.  It's just games like this that are really fun to go against teams that are real strong and gifted and play as one.   
 Q.  What makes you say West Virginia?  What's similar with West Virginia?  
AMANI BLEDSOE: I mean, just the physicality, the offensive line, the talent as a whole, like from quarterback to receivers and running back, things like that.   
 Q.  How much do you feel like you guys as a defense have improved throughout the year?  How much better are you right now compared to where you were early in the season or going through the season?  
AMANI BLEDSOE: I'd say we've grown a lot.  I mean, we've matured as a group as a whole.  The defense, we have to play as one, even more so than the offense, and I think that's something we've figured out here more towards the end of the season, which is a good thing.  I mean, playing as one, the communication, the details, trusting your job, being in the right fits.   
 Q.  How much confidence do you guys take out of the Texas game?  I have to think going into a break there, is there an opportunity to maybe help that be a springboard going into this bowl game?  
AMANI BLEDSOE: Yeah, that could definitely show off the confidence and show off all the hard work that the defense has put in and just show how we've learned how to play together more and trust our job.   
 Q.  What's it been like since this preparation?  Do you feel like you're a better defense?  
AMANI BLEDSOE: Yeah, of course.  At the end of the day, it just comes down to the game plan and trusting your job and doing it at a high level.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT