BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS LATVIA
February 7, 2020
Anastasija Sevastova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. KENIN/A. Sevastova
6-2, 6-2
USA - 1
Latvia - 0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. This was the third time you played her. What are your thoughts from the other side of the court?
ANASTASIJA SEVASTOVA: I think it was the best I've seen her play in the three encounters we had. Yeah, I mean, it's tough. I had my chances. I had, like, 40-Love, 40-15 in the first set, my serve. I mean, normally you take it. Obviously it didn't happen today.
Yeah, it was tough. I didn't play that bad. I can't say that I played worst game ever. I had some mistakes, of course. But, yeah, it was a pretty solid game. She had all the answers.
It's tough. You have to mix it up. You have to play aggressive, but not too aggressive. The mistakes come. She played exactly the right way against me. Yeah, she hit some lines. She had some luck. Yeah, she won Australian Open, too.
Q. You know each other well, played doubles before. Do you see anything different in her since winning Australia on the court or off?
ANASTASIJA SEVASTOVA: I think personally she hasn't changed. I mean, she's the same. She's a nice girl. I like her. Great personality. We actually understand each other, we talk.
Tennis-wise, yeah, for sure, you're confident when you win your first Grand Slam. Yeah, she's playing so solid, so deep. She has all the answers.
It's tough because she has a good tactic, she doesn't miss much. I mean, she serves not too fast, but she hits all the corners. Yeah, it's not easy. It's not easy, like, to find weaknesses. There are no weaknesses.
Q. Looking ahead to tomorrow, if you do end up playing Serena, what are your thoughts on that match and the rematch of the semifinal you had at the US Open?
ANASTASIJA SEVASTOVA: I mean, it's a good thing. In Fed Cup you always have a next match, next day. It's not over yet like in the normal tournament.
Yeah, either way I'm looking forward to it. It's going to be again tough. We knew coming here that it was not going to be easy against the USA. Yeah, I have to play for sure better than probably today. Again, I have nothing to lose.
It's going to be a different matchup. Serena plays faster. I don't think she likes when I change the speed because for Sofia she likes it, she has for problems when I play slice or I do some dropshots. Serena, yeah, I hope for her it's going to be tougher a little bit.
Again, you never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT