WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2017
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round today, especially that last hole.  Sporty way to end it.  
GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, it's always nice, especially in front of the big crowds.  Hit a great 9-iron.  Just a perfect number.  Kind of rode the wind in there and left myself a nice little uphill 5-footer.  It was a nice way to finish.   
 Q.  Let's talk about tomorrow, the possibilities.  12-under, and you're obviously playing very, very well.  You have a chance to win it for the first time.  
GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I think so.  I just need to keep making birdies.  I'm playing well.  I believe in it.  But you've gotta just keep the pedal down out here.  You can't just kinda try to coast around and shoot a couple under and expect to win.   
That's the goal, go out and try and make as many birdies as I can.   
 Q.  Do you think you're more comfortable coming from behind?  
GRAHAM DeLAET: I don't know.  I have never won either way.  I don't know if it really matters, but I'm going to do everything I can to try to get my first win tomorrow, and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  You're an emotional player.  Can you describe the feeling, especially on the back 9?  Started with 14.  
GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, it's cool.  I made a bomb on 14 today, and the crowds kind of got into it.  Made a disappointing par on 15 and then made birdie on 16.  That was loud, and that kinda got me pumped up and energized.   
It's a lot of fun.  This tournament is special.  It's unlike any other that we play.   
You know, you just gotta try and control those emotions as much as you can and use them when you can.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Do you have a number in mind tomorrow?  
GRAHAM DeLAET: Well, these guys still aren't done yet.  You almost have to try and make birdie on every hole.  That's the thing.  If you hit it in the fairways out here, you can pretty much take on every single hole.  The greens are just soft enough.  They do have a little bit of firmness in them, but they are just soft enough that you can be aggressive.  That's the goal:  start hitting fairways and see where we go from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT