PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2017
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pretty crazy stretch of holes?
GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, on 13, actually I left that ball hanging on the lip.  It was an inch from the hole from making a one.  Hit the hole on the next one, the par 4.
That's where I turned to Jules and said, "Man, I could have just gone 1, 1, but going 2, 2 is pretty good on those holes, too."
15, I hit a great tee shot, great three coming in there and nice putt right up the hill and left myself in a nice place there.
16, I hit a good tee shot.  I hit a really, really good iron shot that just got a little bit unlucky.  Needed another couple paces on it and came back to 40 feet and when that putt went in, one of those things, you shake your head and it was pretty unreal.
In all honesty, on 17, 18, two really good two putts to close the day, and I was happy about that to keep myself -- because I put myself in somewhat of a position, and I had two really difficult two putts on 17 and 18 and was able to close those out.
Q. Rory was just in here saying how difficult the golf course is; you go through a stretch like that, how do you explain that?
GRAHAM DeLAET: I don't even know.  Like the 6-iron I hit on 13 never left the flag and was to an inch and it never left the flag on 14, and then my 3-wood never left the flag -- it was just one of those things.  I don't know, I was kind of feeling it I guess.
It was difficult.  He was not lying to you guys.  It's a really, really, really challenging test out there, especially with the greens being as firm as they are.  It's just so hard to get birdie looks.
Seems like you all have 20-footers with two or three feet of break and you're going up and then down and everything is running away downgrain and there's some tough pins.  I was able to have one nice little stretch but the rest of my round wasn't all that impressive.
Q. How is your back feeling?
GRAHAM DeLAET: It's hanging in there.  Today was the best it's felt since the week has started.  It was painful with every swing today but it didn't affect me for the first time this week, so that was nice.
Q. Have you ever had a run like that on a difficult golf course like this?
GRAHAM DeLAET: I don't think so.  That would be a cool run, you know, at any PGA TOUR event.  But to do that at the PGA Championship is pretty special.  It's something I'll probably always remember, you know, when I look back at my career.  And the nice thing about it was it put me in a position where something really special tomorrow can -- you never know.
Q. What was the best shot?
GRAHAM DeLAET: I don't know, probably the 3-wood on 14  when it hit the pin; it was pretty nice.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT