THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  GRAHAM DeLAET: I think we got a pretty good draw there today.  The 18th hole is pretty easy as far as a tee shot, you kind of hit it left, so it was nice that it didn't happen one hole earlier, I wouldn't have liked to play 17 in that left to right into the rain.  But yeah, we got through it.   Q.  Is it nice to get something out of a round?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I played well today.  I feel like I played the exact same as I have the three days.  I was just kind of able to hole a few putts today, and that's the difference, obviously.  A little disappointed.  I don't know how anyone has ever made par on that 17th hole.  It's such a beast, but you know, I felt like I played it well today, and it's just such a hard putt up that slope and it was a little slower than I thought and made bogey there, and that was really the only kind of blemish, but I played well.   Q.  You get one more crack at 17 tomorrow.  Do you have anything else up your sleeve?  GRAHAM DeLAET: I'm just going to try to hit it on the fairway, hit it on the green and two-putt for par.  That's what I've been trying to do the last couple days, too.  It's just a tough hole, it's a tough tee shot, and the approach shot coming in, especially with a left-to-right wind with that angle to the green, it's really, really playing tough.   Q.  When you're out there, were you aware that everybody is kind of making a move this morning, and if the weather kind of kicks up a little bit this afternoon you might be a little closer?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I wasn't really sure.  I saw Leish was playing good on the board, but it's not surprising.  The scores are out there for sure.  There's a couple sort of tough pins to get at, but that being said, there's enough that you could get out and get good birdies.  The 9th hole I front it to the front edge today, so that was playing a little different than it has the last couple days.  Yeah, the scores are out there, but if this keeps up, things are definitely going to change.   Q.  Did you get a good day of rest yesterday?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I came out for about two hours, had a workout and got some soft tissue done, and other than that I was just kind of hanging out at home and watching Twitter and seeing what everyone was saying more than anything.  It was kind of a fun day.   Q.  Has your view of this course changed since you got here?  GRAHAM DeLAET: I remember the first time I played it would have been '09 and I was kind of in awe when I was here because of the history and what this course means to the sport of golf.  And now I'm kind of seeing it more as a golf course.  There's a lot of strategy involved.  You can play it super aggressively, you can lay back.  There's a lot of -- it's just a fun golf course to play because there's a lot of different ways to play.  A lot of different types of players can play well here, like obviously Jim today shot 6-under in my group and made it look super easy, so it's a fun golf course, and I don't think my strategy is going to change much tomorrow, but that being said, I mean, with a different wind direction, it can be a completely different golf course, as well.   Q.  With your ball-striking and distance, do you see this as a course you're going to be looking forward to for the rest of your career?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I think it suits my game pretty well.  The hard thing, especially yesterday and the day before, I guess, in that wind, is there's really, really subtle breaks, and I just wasn't really seeing the lines very well.  A three-footer was tough in that wind yesterday.  It was yesterday, I'm sure, too.  I keep saying yesterday, but on Friday.  But yeah, I think it's a course that I can play well at.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT