THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2015
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GRAHAM DeLAET: Obviously it was a tough day to score.  It was hard to get anything close to the pin.  I played really, really well all day.  The double on 15 stings and I hit a great putt on 18 and just misread it and missed on the high side.  I'd love two more cracks at the golf course.  I'm proud of the way I played today, it was just for two days I felt like I played really, really good golf and I find myself on the cut line, and I can't quite figure out why.  It's pretty disappointing.Q. Pretty eventful start there.GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, man, I got gusted so hard on that shot.  I mean, I thought I was going to have 15, 20 feet when the ball took off, and it just went straight sideways on me and I was almost kind of hoping it was going to land short there after a while.  Yeah, the chip was cool because I felt like I hit a good enough shot to at least make par there, and then another chip-in on 5 for eagle was equally as good.Q. What kind of a lie did you have on 5?GRAHAM DeLAET: It was pretty good, considering it was in the long kind of fescuey stuff, it was as good as you could hope for any ways.Q. Do you think you learned a lot from the first two rounds that you can take into the weekend?GRAHAM DeLAET: You know, not really.  I hit one pretty -- like borderline what I thought was pretty far right on 17 and ended up being in the middle of the fairway there, so I think my line -- you know you've got more room there right, but it's hard to hit it right on that hole.  I think that we played the golf course really well as far as what we did off each tee and trying to get different angles into different pins.  Like I said, I felt like I really, really played well, and it's just disappointing that I might not even be around for the weekend.Q. You look like you're fairly safe right now but they have to finish tomorrow.GRAHAM DeLAET: Exactly.  The weather is the biggest thing.  If they had to finish in this, I'd feel pretty good.  But as good of a draw we had yesterday, I felt like we played in the stiff nest of winds here today, not that it was easy for anyone.  Yeah, I hope it's enough.  We'll just have to wait and see.Q. (Inaudible.)GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I mean, that's why that putt on 18 would have been nice.  I knew it.  I hit a great putt there.  There was a couple putts today that I lipped out on high sides and I couldn't believe it, but nothing really seems to be falling right now.Q. (Inaudible.)GRAHAM DeLAET: You know, like today I really felt like I left like three 30-, 35-footers dead short right in the jaws today, I made like one extra roll, and I really just felt like I played and putted well today, and I mean, other than the three-putt on 15 there.  We'll just have to wait and see.Q. (Inaudible.)GRAHAM DeLAET: Well, I kind of did until I jumped on Twitter and saw some of the pictures and I knew that we were a long ways away.Q. Did the course dry out better than you expected?GRAHAM DeLAET: No, not really.  The ball was still really running out.  It's amazing when you walk down 18 here that that 1st and 18 fairway was a lake here this morning because it's pretty dried out now.Q. (Inaudible.)GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I mean, we had a bad club on 7, hit it over the green there, made bogey, and then it was a bad club on 15, but I still should have at least been able to make a 5 there.  But other than that, on 17 it was one of the best shots I hit all day.  I can't believe how far that ball went, and if that lands three yards shorter into the upslope I've got a 15-footer for birdie and all of a sudden I'm on the road trying to figure out how not to make double.Q. (Inaudible.)GRAHAM DeLAET: Well, for Canadian golf I think we would love to see Mike playing and playing well.  I don't really know exactly.  I know that he's been battling injuries, and I just wish him the best.  Obviously he's a friend of mine now, and I didn't know that, but I'll shoot him a text and wish him the best and hopefully just see him soon.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT