THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Tough finish there.  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, you know, I played great all day, extremely disappointing finish.  The chip on 17 wasn't really that difficult, and I just kind of chubbed in, and then I mean, horrible shot.  I was trying to get cute with one on 18 there.  Tough way to finish because I really played great all day.  I had so many opportunities.  I felt like I could have been 7-, 8-under, but it is what it is.  It's a 71 now.   Q.  You looked like you were caught between putter and wedge on the 16th green.  Was the one on 17 too close or too far away to putt?  GRAHAM DeLAET: No, it just had way too much break.  If I would have putted that one, I would have had to play 15 feet of break.  I would never change what I did, I would just try to hit it more solid.   Q.  And 18 was just thinned?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, it was a little thin.   Q.  Outside of those two holes are you happy with the way you played?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, like I said, I felt like I was in total control.  I mean, I hit some really good putts that didn't go.  I had a couple bad ones, I had a couple misreads.  I mean, it was like I was 3-under and I felt like I couldn't have been anything worse, and then it's a really disappointing finish because I just played great all day.  I feel like I've been playing great for a couple months and this is kind of how it's been.  But keep plugging away.  I know tomorrow is going to probably be a sting a little bit more because it was pretty good scoring conditions.   Q.  Was there a distraction on 17 tee?  GRAHAM DeLAET: No, no, I tugged that, but I mean, if you're going to miss there, you're obviously going to miss left.  You still have a aim left centre of the fairway but I tugged it.  It had nothing to do with the distraction.  It's just kind of a protective swing, I guess.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  GRAHAM DeLAET: Well, you know, it's funny because during the practice rounds for that back left pin the miss is long and left, but I didn't -- I couldn't quite judge my lie there in the rough and I was trying to play it to the front right and the grass just grabbed my hosel and flipped it over.  When I was in the air, I knew that if it was long enough, it covered the long grass, it was actually going to be a pretty good spot, and unfortunately I just didn't get it up-and-down  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT