TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2015
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You were playing so quickly out there.  With the double at the first you were kind of playing catch-up all day long?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, you know, I didn't hit it very well all day.  I chunked a couple wedges.  It was discouraging.  I wasn't getting the ball on the fairway, but I was really happy how I hung in there, stayed patient and kept fighting.  That is one thing I can definitely take out of this round.  Even though I didn't have my best stuff, I really chipped and putted well.  All in all it got me into the British Open which I'm happy about.  Kind of keep the confidence growing a little bit, and I'm looking forward to next week.   Q.  A cool wet day, was the back fine throughout?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I felt great actually all day.  I really don't know.  I can't explain.  I was hitting it really, really good on the range.  I pulled that first tee shot, and then a little bit of doubt kind of crept in.  But I'm happy with how I fought.  It was still a good day all in all.   Q.  And you're in The Open at St. Andrews.  That has to be a huge thrill.  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, it's special.  I was disappointed that I had fallen out of the top 50.  That was one that I really wanted to play and my mom really wanted to go.  I'm taking her to St. Andrews, so she'll like that.   Q.  You've got twins on the way in December.  It's not all a bad year for you?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Life is good.   Q.  How pleased are you with the way this tournament ended up, especially with the tough conditions today?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I mean, all in all I'm super happy with how I played.  I just didn't quite have it today tee to green.  I started off obviously with the double on the first hole and that never helps.  I stayed super patient and stuck to my game plan.  I'm really proud of how I played mentally anyways how I got through the round.  Had a chance at the end.  If I could have holed that putt on 16 and birdied 18, I'd have been in the playoff too.  But I'm happy all in all with how it went.   Q.  You're in the Open now.  You'll be playing at St. Andrews.  How excited are you about that?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, that's great.  When I fell out of the top 50 in the world, that really stung.  I know my mom really wanted to go.  So I guess we'll be taking her to Scotland as well.  So, yeah, it's a special place.  It's a great tournament, and I'm definitely happy to be back in there.   Q.  You think maybe the weather today prepared you for that?  GRAHAM DeLAET: A little bit.  I think it will be a little firmer and faster, but it wasn't too bad.  It held off pretty good.  It was a good call by the TOUR to do two tees late, and yeah, on to the next one, I guess.   Q.  You gave yourself a shot today.  I mean, you were right in there till the end.  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I was.  I got off to a terrible start doubling the first hole is not how I drew it up when I was in my hotel room all morning.  But I fought really hard, I putted great today, and gave myself a chance coming down the stretch.  I hit a great putt on 16.  It was just such a slow putt.  If I could have made that one, I would have had a birdie on 18 to get into this playoff as well. But I'm happy with how I just kind of grinded through the day.  It was tough.  I just wasn't really on my game, but I gave it a fighting chance.   Q.  That front nine was tough.  We were at 7 and nobody got a birdie.  It was one of those things where you just kind of have to hang in there, don't you?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, it's funny because almost all the pins on the front nine it seemed were at the back.  Half of them were playing into the wind.  It was almost impossible to get to some of them.  You're playing to 30 feet and just trying to two putt. Like I said, it was a grind kind of all day.  I was happy to make some birdies on the back nine and give myself a chance and get the juices flowing a little bit those last few holes.   Q.  How does the mindset change when you have a hole like you did on that first hole?  How do you regroup in the fourth round?  GRAHAM DeLAET: That was the thing.  That's what I was the happiest about.  I really stayed patient.  I knew this tournament was going to come down to the back nine if I could just grind it out.  I was just trying to get back to even ar at the turn.  I almost did that.  I had a 1-over and then birdied 10.  So basically kind of achieved what I wanted to when I was walking on the second tee box.  It just wasn't quite enough.   Q.  Can you take us through the conversation that you had with your caddie in the bunker there?  You had two clubs at the time.  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I was just exactly in between.  It would have had to be a perfect 6-iron, but it felt like 5 was a little too much, and 5 kind of brought in the lip, and I just barely clipped the lip.  I actually hit a decent shot.  It was close to being really good, but it was also close to being really bad.  So where it ended up, I guess I'd take it.   Q.  So it was the 6 then?  GRAHAM DeLAET: I ended up hitting the 5.   Q.  And the chip, what was the conversation before?  Did you think you could get close?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, it was one that I wanted to make, but obviously it was really, really fast.  I could see myself if it came out fast it could roll off the green and end up where Bubba's ball was, and I wanted a chance for a 4.  But, yeah, it wasn't quite meant to be.   Q.  You've been in this position in this tournament before.  How do you assess the day having come up empty again?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I mean, like I said, I'm happy with how I played and how I grinded.  It's just such a rough start.  I just got a little too far behind early.   Q.  The British Open is the consolation prize.  Not too bad, right?  GRAHAM DeLAET: Absolutely.  That's a special one at St. Andrews, so I'm looking forward to getting back in there.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT