SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2015
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You just signed a scorecard in this round, mimicked yesterday, six birdies, one bogey.   What was working so well for you today?
GRAHAM DELAET:   I think -- I'm not exactly sure.   I think I hit 15, 16 greens today, so I kind of felt like I always had chances all day.   I was able to make a few.   I missed a couple opportunities as well.   Anytime you can shoot 5-under, you're always happy and I'm in good position.

Q.   We talked about this earlier in the broadcast, you missed the cut in your previous three starts before coming here.   What's the difference this week compared to your previous three?
GRAHAM DELAET:   I'm finally starting to hit the ball well again.   I've -- I didn't follow balls with my driver, really.   Digging myself in the hole, I couldn't get out.   I've been putting well for the past three weeks.   Ball striking is usually the strength of my game.   I knew it would eventually come around.   I was hoping I would be able to hole putts, and I've done that for a couple rounds here, moving on to the weekend and do some of the same.

Q.   Really well played out there.   You had just two bogies in 36 holes.
GRAHAM DELAET:   Yeah, thank you.   I feel like I've been in control of my golf ball for the first time in about a month.   That's always nice.   I was telling these guys, I've been holing a few putts for the first couple rounds and my game feels good.   Even coming in like last week, I was kind of on the ugly side of the draw.   I was playing well enough if I could sort of get something rolling.   I've been in the tank for a couple weeks.   It's good to be playing some good golf again.

Q.   You had a few putts go down like over on the 13th green.   You weren't happy with the chip with your third.   Then the 30-footer or so.
GRAHAM DELAET:   I told my caddy to get up and down, I have to hit one good shot.   That was a fortunate birdie there for sure, but I played well and I'm excited about the weekend.   I think I'm going to be in good shape hopefully in the final group and try to keep going.

Q.   You mentioned not the best of form with the past three cuts.   I saw you in the Valero Texas Open hit a bad drive on the 8th hole.   I remember body language was terrible.   I said, "That's a frustrated golfer."   What turned it around for you?
GRAHAM DELAET:   My wife is out for the first time in a couple weeks and just a different approach.   Gabriel said to go have fun.   I've been grinding so hard and trying to get to the Masters and working and almost trying too hard and not letting the game happen.   That's what I've been doing.   I mean, it's exciting.   I'm in good shape going into the weekend, and that's all you can ask for.

Q.   Shooting 67, 67 is always fun.   Have a good weekend.
GRAHAM DELAET:   Thanks.

Q.   Graham, how was it out there?   You have to be obviously very pleased with the way you putted today.
GRAHAM DELAET:   Yeah.   Last two rounds have been great, kind of similar rounds, and, you know, just been in control of my golf ball for a couple days and able to hole a few putts and it's been fun.   Been enjoying it and want to keep it going for another couple days.

Q.   You're in a great position heading into the weekend.   Does your mindset change at all?
GRAHAM DELAET:   No.   I've been here before.   I'm not getting too far ahead of myself only halfway through the golf tournament.   I'm going to have fun.   It's exciting.   Hopefully, I'll be in the final group.   If that's the case, maybe playing with Phil, it's always going to be big crowds and an exciting weekend.

Q.   You missed the previous three coming here.   Did you find something here?
GRAHAM DELAET:   More a change of attitude.   Just trying to enjoy the game of golf.   My wife is here for the first time in a few weeks, so that's always nice, too.   I've been kind of solo on the road for awhile.   More than anything, just trying to have fun again.

Q.   What's your reaction to Tiger making the announcement he's going to play in the Masters?
GRAHAM DELAET:   I just heard.   Obviously when he's playing, it's good for our game.   I wish him the best.

Q.   The opportunity maybe to play with Phil the next couple days, how exciting is that just to be in the spotlight again these two days?
GRAHAM DELAET:   Yeah.   You play to be in contention and it doesn't really matter who you're playing with, but I know the crowds are going to be good if it is Phil, and you can kind of feed off that.   A lot of times if a guy is making a lot of birdies, you can get that momentum going.   I hope that's the case. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT