WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 29, 2015
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You got a 67 today.  Obviously a course you're comfortable with, finishing second last year.  Good start for you out there today?GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I mean, very good.  I was really happy with how I hit it.  I didn't quite putt as well.  I missed a couple of short ones, some chances.  It's obviously a good start and I'm happy. It's nice to, you know, be home and doesn't really feel like a tournament week until you get out here.  It's cool.  I've got some friends, and sleeping in your own bed is always great.Q. What are your hopes for this year in terms of meeting or bettering your expectations?GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, I mean, I felt like I played well the last couple years.  You know, I got off to, you know, a slow start to the year obviously with my injuries and stuff in the fall, but I'm feeling good. I'm a little bit behind the 8 Ball here, so to speak, but I believe that I can compete out here and I'm not like, you know -- with my rookie season I was worried about where I was on the Money List and that kind of thing.  I'm not really looking at that right now.  I'm just trying to do what I can to win the tournament. I mean, I feel comfortable out here.  I have had good results, so, you know, making that Presidents Cup team is obviously on my mind, but the only way to do that is play good golf.Q. What do you think you have to do realistically to be on the team?GRAHAM DeLAET: Just doing, you know, what I know I'm capable of, and, you know, hopefully I can be on that team and not rely on any kind of captain's pick.  That's my goal.  It's still a long ways away, a lot of golf between now and then.Q. Are the Olympics also on the radar for you?GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, but, I mean, it's the same thing.  I think if you play good golf, that will hopefully take care of itself.  But, I mean, it would be one of the most proud moments of my life if I can make that Olympic team and it's definitely something that I'm shooting for.Q. What does this atmosphere do for your game?  Unlike anything else, right?GRAHAM DeLAET: It's fun.  This is a week unlike any other, even compared to the majors.  It's a little more rowdy. We came through 16.  It was fairly calm, but I think tomorrow afternoon, unless the rain kind of chases some people away, it's going to be a little more mad. It's a lot of fun.  You kind of feed off the energy, and there were a lot of Canadians out there cheering me on today.  It was fun.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT