PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2014
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   After a double‑bogey, you went four birdies in a row.   Talk about that.   
GRAHAM DeLAET: That was a nice stretch.   I definitely needed it.   I actually felt like I hit the right shot on 7.   I just didn't really execute it, unfortunately, but I knew as soon as I hit it, it wasn't going to make it.  
But it was nice to bounce back like that.   I had a lot of other looks on the back nine, as well.   A little disappointed on 18.   My wedge kind of stuck in the ground a little bit and I wasn't able to get it up there.   
It was a good day.   I escaped the disaster that could have been.   It was fun.   
   
 Q.   You had to make a long walk back on 7.   Was there a question about where the ball had crossed?   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, there was definitely a question about it.   
   
 Q.   And then you went through the whole back side, aside from those four that you had in a row, you had quite a few more in there; any highlights?   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   I just really hit good shots all the way.   I was seeing the lines great and I holed in a few putts.   That putt on 17, I couldn't believe it didn't fall.   Fell left right at the end.   I'm super happy with how I played, especially after being 3‑over through seven, I could see it kind of slipping away.   You know, I felt like I've been playing so well and I knew that I had it in me, and fortunately I was able to roll some putts in.  
   
 Q.   Looks like about 20 guys are within three shots here.   Are you looking forward to tomorrow?   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, I think it's going to be exciting.   I'm going to definitely have to get off to a better start, but I think if I can get 3‑ or 4‑under through the first six or seven holes, anything can happen.   I think it's going to take a low one tomorrow but I think it's definitely a possibility.   
   
 Q.   Are you thinking that you had to make the big rebound after 7?   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   I was just trusting myself.   It was a long walk.   I walked that par 5 about three times, it felt like.   I stepped on 7 tee and we had a really good number and I struck a nice 7‑iron and that calmed me down and I was able to hole that putt.   I knew at that time‑‑ I figured if I could get it back to a couple under on the day, that I would still kind of have a shot.   But the guys are taking it pretty low here, but at least I'm kind of still in the ballpark.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT