PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 8, 2014
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round.   Anything spectacular?   
GRAHAM DELAET:   It was a tough day, for sure.   I was warming up this morning, I kinked my neck pretty bad.   I wasn't able to really move.   If you'd asked me this morning, I thought I was going to miss the cut.   I didn't think I was going to be able to get it around.   A bunch of Advil, some Tylenol.   
I made a few good putts today, just kind of bunted it around.   Some days when you don't have any expectations, you never know what's going to happen.   
   
 Q.   How did you kink your neck?  
GRAHAM DELAET:   I have no idea.   It just kind of happened as I was warming up this morning.   Just kind of progressively got worse as the day went on.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
GRAHAM DELAET:   Yeah, I mean, I knew that I was putting well.   Obviously you don't ever hope to 4‑putt, but I knew that I was putting well the last couple of days.   Just kept giving myself chances and believing in it.   I was seeing the lines really well.   The little putt that I missed was a little bit careless.   I tried my best.   
The putt before I just kind of pulled it a bit.   It was a nice way to finish after that because it could have gotten away from me there.  
   
 Q.   Talk about the conditions.   
GRAHAM DELAET:   You were picking up a little bit of mud obviously.   It's going to be the same for everybody.   I'm not complaining about it.  
   
 Q.   Do you like where you're at?  
GRAHAM DELAET:   I'm in good position going into the weekend.   It's by far the best I've gone into the weekend in a major, so I'm excited about the opportunity coming up.  
   
 Q.   What about the rain?  
GRAHAM DELAET:   The main thing is it's just kind of a nuisance.   It wasn't really a maybe a couple holes out there it was really coming down.   It's more just trying to juggle the umbrella, keeping dry and all that stuff.   It wasn't so bad that was really affecting the ball or anything like that.   But it's just kind of a nuisance.   
   
 Q.   How did you keep your pants clean?   
GRAHAM DELAET:   I'm actually amazed too.   I told Jewels that I thought I would have to throw these away at the end of the day, but they were surprising white still at the bottom.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
GRAHAM DELAET:   Kind of a couple of times here and there.   I don't really know what happened.   Hopefully we can get it figured out this afternoon.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
GRAHAM DELAET:   It was nice to have a little bit more of a delay this morning, gave us extra time to do some soft tissue work.   I don't know exactly what's going on, but we're going to get it figured out here this afternoon.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
GRAHAM DELAET:   I mean, it progressively got a little bit worse as the day went on.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT