RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 27, 2014
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk about the week here in Canada.   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Well, it was fun.   It wasn't quite the weekend I had in store.   2‑under on a soft golf course isn't going to quite get it done on the weekend, but I was quite happy the way I battled today and fell a little bit short, but it was fun.   The support that I had, especially coming up 18 there, is something I'll remember forever.   
   
 Q.   You've been in contention at PGA TOUR events before.   This is your first time in the thick of it on the weekend.   How much different was it here?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   You know what, it was more fun, just because so many people were cheering for me.   Now I know how Phil and Tiger and those guys feel all the time because it was pretty neat.   Coming down 18, it was a special moment.   
   
 Q.   Hunter Mahan said earlier this week that the Canadians' biggest enemy this week could be trying too hard.   Does that make any sense?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, I think I've always done that coming into the Canadian Open, and maybe I did that a little bit on the weekend.   You can't really force it in this game.   But all in all, I was pleased with the way I played.   I was pleased with the way I handled myself for the most part, and I can't wait until next year.   
   
 Q.   This is a big stretch coming up now for you, the PGA and then the Playoffs.   How do you feel about your form?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, very good.   I felt like even over the past few events, I felt like I've been playing well and not getting the scores, and it was nice to see a couple putts roll in there and Friday and get a decent finish and get a little bit of momentum.   It's an important stretch obviously with Akron next week and the PGA and then right into the Playoffs.   Confidence is the biggest thing in this game, and I finally have kind of found a little bit of it.   
   
 Q.   Low Canadian this week, have you thought about that?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   I actually saw that Fritschy made a move today, so that was great to see him play well.   I mean, you always do want to be the low Canadian.   Going into the weekend I wanted to try to win the golf tournament, but it was a strong field of Canadians here this week, and I'm proud to be the low guy.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT