RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2014
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I am here with Graham DeLaet, and not the start nor the finish that you really wanted going into today, but a lot of good stuff in the middle.  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, I got off to a little bit of a shaky start as they say, but I feel like I really kind of found my groove and played well, holed a couple nice putts and just kind of kept plugging away.   I knew that I wasn't that far off, and if I could just finish a couple under par today maybe I'd have a shot tomorrow.   Disappointing there to three‑putt the last.   I really wanted to make that birdie and got overly aggressive.   But it was a fun day.   It was awesome.   The crowds were amazing out there.   I felt tons of support, and hopefully I can do something special tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   When you go out there tomorrow it's kind of like, okay, you can let loose, try to shoot another 63 which you've already done this week, post a number maybe and put some pressure on Furyk from two and three groups ahead.  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, you never know.   Jim is obviously in pretty good control of his game right now, but you just never know.   It's golf, and if someone posts something, 13, 14, 15, you just never know what could happen.   I am just going to go out and give it my best tomorrow.   I've got 35 million people pulling for me, so that's pretty cool.  
   
 Q.   Can you sum up the day for us?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   I mean, it was a little bit of a shaky start, but I feel like I played really well for about 14, 15 holes there in the middle.   I was holing some good putts and was a little tentative on some of my long ones.   My speed was a little bit off. And I really wanted that birdie on 18.   I got a little bit aggressive and it was an unfortunate finish, but I felt pretty good about how I played all in all.   It was a little bit tougher scoring conditions today and nobody really other than Jim and Tim I saw played really well earlier, but it was a little bit tougher today.  
   
 Q.   When you got to the back nine and made that eagle, did that propel you to think, okay, I can get back in here?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, it was cool.   I mean, I had goosebumps and my hand was standing on end when the fans were screaming there.   The support today was awesome.   I knew if I could make a couple more coming in I might have a shot.   I hadn't seen a leaderboard yet so I didn't know exactly where I was, but I knew that it was playing tougher, and if I could just kind of hang in there and shoot 1‑ or 2‑under, I'd have a chance.  
   
 Q.   Can you put into words the way you're feeling right now?   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   I mean, like I said, I'm pretty happy all in all with how I played.   It was a tough day.   You never want to finish with a three‑putt from 10 feet, but I'm just going to look forward to tomorrow.   Hopefully I can do something special and put a little bit of pressure on the guys who are in the lead, and you just never know.  
   
 Q.   Did you feel extra pumped up on the first few holes out there?   Was there a little bit more adrenaline than normal?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   I think there probably was.   I hit that 3‑wood a long ways on 1, and then on 2 I drove it in the greenside bunker, wasn't really expecting to get that far up there.   But I think I kind of settled in. I had a couple kind of weird lies on 2 and 3 just off the green in the rough and just the way the grass kind of lies, and I was able to hole a nice putt on 3 but not able to get up‑and‑down.   That bogey on 2 was not really what I had in mind there.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT