THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 6, 2013
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I guess it's safe to assume you kind of like this hole.   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Pretty crazy finish the last two times here today.   But you know, super‑happy.   I don't really know how everyone else is doing it, but that's my main thing right now, hopefully we are still in this game.  
   
 Q.   Break out year for you on the PGA TOUR and a break out week for you as well, along with your partner Jason Day; what do you think an experience like this does for you?   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, I got some really kind words from Mr.Nicklaus on the first tee today saying it's really going to build my confidence, and I think that's true.   Going into the last few events of this year, even into next year, this is an unbelievable tournament.   I'm just so happy to be a part of it and to play well is just a bonus.   
What an unbelievable way to finish.   When I got up here, I thought I was going to have to really work to make 4 to halve the hole if Jordan missed.   Yeah, pretty special finish.  
   
 Q.   This has been tremendous for you, obviously you're having a good Presidents Cup.   How do you feel this kicks forward for you into the future?   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, I think it's going to build some confidence for sure.   I've always kind of believed in myself, but to have a good performance, with really the best players in the world, it's an unbelievable feeling.   I mean, just being here is really special and then to play well is just icing on the cake.   
   
 Q.   Talk about those two shots to finish your Presidents Cup experience?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   I executed them both well, but there's some luck involved, as well.   I mean, it's super exciting to finish like that; to win the match here and then to halve the match this morning, it makes it even better.  
   
 Q.   This is a an emotional week, a lot of up‑and‑downs every hole, every shot it seems like, but you've seemed to battle through it and you've been one of the stars through this International Team?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, definitely some up‑and‑downs; yesterday before we got dark, I was pretty down on myself and felt I had given a couple holes away from us, but was out this morning to battle back and get that halve.   
Today, Jordan Spieth, an unbelievable player, and what people don't know, he's an even better kid.   He played great, as well.   We had a good match right down to the end and pretty special finish.   
   
 Q.   Folks in Canada have known how well you've been playing in the last year or so, but I think this may have been sort of your announcement to the rest of the golf world; do you feel that a little bit?   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Well, I don't know.   I definitely believe that deep inside I feel a little more confidence in myself now.   These are the best players in the world and this American Team is just loaded with talent.   To be able to come in here and play well against them means a lot.  
   
 Q.   I know there also is disappointment here, you wanted to win this Presidents Cup; talk about that a little bit?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   To be honest, I don't really know exactly where we're sitting but the sound of your voice isn't very good.   That's tough, and that's the thing, we're here as a team to try to win this thing as a team and it's great to play well, but it's going to be tough going into that locker room and seeing all those guys.   I mean, I'm sure we'll have a couple drinks tonight and just celebrate the friendships and everything that we've made.   
Like Jason and I, I feel like we got a pretty good bond playing the last couple days together and going on from here, it's just‑‑ seeing those guys in the locker room week‑in, week‑out on TOUR is going to be just a little bit more special.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT