DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
September 1, 2013
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOHN BUSH:   We'd like to welcome Graham DeLaet into the interview room with a third round, 9‑under par, 62. 
Graham, there are worse ways of spending a Sunday afternoon than shooting 62.   Can we get some comments on an incredible day? 
GRAMAH DeLAET:   Yeah, it was an incredible day.   It's one of those days that it doesn't come along as often as you'd like.   But it was one of those days where I was able to‑‑ I was seeing the lines great and made pretty much every putt that I would expect to make, along with a couple 20‑footers, maybe one a little bit longer than that.   And when you kind of start making a couple of those putts and the confidence keeps going, and I was giving myself a lot of chances with my irons.   It was nice to birdie the last.   I had a really good look at an eagle but just left it just in the jaws short.
JOHN BUSH:   Talk about your confidence level right now, especially after last week, just how well you're playing.
GRAMAH DeLAET:   Yeah, last week definitely helped.   Sunday, I mean that was a tough golf course.   The wind was up there and I was able to put together a nice round. 
And just coming in here this week I was really feeling good about the way I was hitting it and the way I was putting it.   And when you can make a few putts early, especially you can just get a little bit more confidence going.   It was just a fun day.   I just hope that I can have half that kind of day tomorrow. 

Q.   When you got up this morning, did anything tell you today was going to be your day?
GRAMAH DeLAET:   No, not even close.   Actually we had I bit of a‑‑ when they did the repairings I was actually in Boston at the airport dropping my wife off, she was going to Italy.   And I was in kind of a mad rush to get back to the golf course at that time.   So at that time I was just kind of hoping to get out here and not miss my tee time.   Because I was driving back in some pretty heavy rains going about 30 miles an hour on the freeway.   But I was able to get back in ample time and prepare.
I don't know, it's just one of those days it was great.   And like I said, I hope anything close to this tomorrow would be great.

Q.   What time did your wife have to get to the airport, what time did you get back here?
GRAMAH DeLAET:   I got back about an hour and a half before my tee time.   Usually I'm two hours.   It was a little bit more of a rush, but at the same time it wasn't anything where I felt I was in panic mode by any means.

Q.   Was your adjusted tee time later than your regular tee time?
GRAMAH DeLAET:   Well, I had originally thought that I was probably going to be teeing off around 2:30 after all the delays and that kind of thing.   I thought I had plenty of time to get back to the golf course.

Q.   As you were out there do you get a sense of what everyone else is doing, and knowing that guys are going low and that you do need to go low to stay on top?
GRAMAH DeLAET:   Yeah, you just have to make birdies.   I made the turn and I was playing well, I was three or four under on the front side and looked at the leaderboard.   And I was in 5th or 6th.   Seemed like every time I made a birdie I was moving back to 5th or 6th.   I knew everyone was making birdies out there. 
The scoring conditions were great today, obviously with ball‑in‑hand it definitely helps.   But at the same time you just have to keep being aggressive, especially out on this golf course.

Q.   How much have you been looking at the Presidents Cup standings the last few weeks, and how has that served as an extra piece of motivation?
GRAMAH DeLAET:   Every day, for sure (laughter).
It would mean the world to me to be on that team, there's no question.   But at the same time when I've been on the golf course I've been focused on what I need to do and I'm proud of the way I've handled it because there is a lot of pressure on the outside.
I've been playing well so it's easier to stay in the moment when you're trusting your golf swing and making a few putts as well.

Q.   Is that a playoff beard?
GRAMAH DeLAET:   Yeah, yeah.   I'm Canadian, that's what we do in the playoffs, you don't shave until you're done.

Q.   When did you make that decision?
GRAMAH DeLAET:   Oh, David Hearn and I kind of were doing it last year.   I think Mike Weir did it five or six years ago in the playoffs.   And like I said, you don't shave in the playoffs if you're Canadian.

Q.   This is a rabid hockey town, who do you pull for?
GRAMAH DeLAET:   I'm a Flames fan through and through.

Q.   Going back to showing up a little bit later, does it help when you are in this situation where you were coming into the day, does it help to feel a little rushed to know that you don't have to focus on what everyone else is doing, just on what you're doing?
GRAMAH DeLAET:   I'm kind of a routine guy, so I definitely would prefer to be here on my regular time and go through everything how I always do.   But at the same time, like I said, I wasn't in panic mode.   Once I got to the golf course I knew I had enough time.   I had a quick meal and was able to get a little bit of a workout in or my warmup in the gym and out to the range, maybe about ten minutes later than normal, so it wasn't too bad.

Q.   Considering the way things turned out, are you going to the airport again tomorrow?
GRAMAH DeLAET:   (Laughter) I don't know.   If my wife flies back, I would definitely go pick her up, yeah. 
JOHN BUSH:   Thanks for your time.   Play well tomorrow. 
GRAMAH DeLAET:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT