AT&T NATIONAL
June 27, 2013
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What's going on with the confidence level right now? 
GRAHAM DeLAET:   I'm playing with a lot of confidence, and then I'm hitting good shots at the same time.   Today I was able to make a couple long putts and just kind of play solid the other kind of 16 holes.   It was a nice way to start.

Q.   You've kind of gotten to a point early on in your career, it's house money the rest of the year.   Whatever you do from here on out, you've already did what you wanted to do at the beginning of the year, and that is keep your job. 
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Right.   This is the first time that I've kind of been in this position.   It's usually not until after the Canadian Open or Greensboro that I feel kind of comfortable.   Definitely nice, and it takes a lot pressure off, and I'm just having fun.

Q.   How much fun are you having?   It looks like there's a bounce in your step every week. 
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, it's good.   I get to spend five, six hours with a really good guy, my caddie Julian, and we stay pretty easy‑going out there.   Had a great group today.   It was a fun day.

Q.   Are adding anything to it?   You're playing so well.   You're giving yourself opportunities to win.   Winning's hard.   You know that.   How patient are you with that, knowing you're playing well enough to get it done? 
GRAHAM DeLAET:   That's exactly what I need to do.   I feel like I'm doing all the right things as far as my preparation and then what I'm doing on the golf course as well. 
Sometimes it's not your week, and that's kind of how I felt last week.   I played well, but it just didn't really happen for me.   We've got a long ways to go here, but a good start.

Q.   When you guys were out there today, were you thinking, okay, when's the horn going to blow? 
GRAHAM DeLAET:   We got to 12th tee, and the marshal there told us it's pretty close and just to be ready for it.   It's really nice to get it all in.   You know, I don't know if everyone's going to get finished, but hopefully.   It would make it for a nice week.

Q.   Keep it going tomorrow. 
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Thank you very much.

Q.   Another great round.   You continue to keep going in your play.   Talk about the day.   The conditions were tough out there. 
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, it was tough.   I mean, this is a tough golf course at the same time.   You've got to get the ball in the fairway.   So I was hitting a lot of 3 woods today.   I wasn't super comfortable with the way I was hitting my driver the last couple of days.   Today I knew I was going to have some long irons into the hole. 
It's important to get on the fairway here because if you've got 200 yards in from this rough, good luck getting a 5 iron on it.   We played a little conservatively, and I was able to make a couple of putts.

Q.   Is that where your length kind of comes to an advantage where you can hit those 3 woods as long as your drivers? 
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, I guess so.   The main thing is just being in the fairways out here.   It was a good start, but I've got a long ways to go.

Q.   What is it about this course?   Played tough last year in this event as well.   The U.S. Open, 6 and under was the win.   Now it was 8 under last year, and 5 under is leading right now.   What is it about this course that does that? 
GRAHAM DeLAET:   First of all, it's long.   It's playing long.   It's a little soft, and then the rough obviously up.   There's a lot of par 4s that have elevated greens.   They're hitting long irons, and you've got to try to land it soft. 
It's one of those courses where you really have to stay patient.   At the same time, you have to hit quality golf shots.

Q.   Is this the most confidence you've played with since you've been on the PGA Tour? 
GRAHAM DeLAET:   I would say without question. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT