TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2013
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Graham, you certainly gave it all you had.   That 83‑yard wedge, I was up at the green, certainly looked good.   How did it look from the fairway?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah.   We were walking up to it.   We knew we had to hole it, and I was trying my best to.   I guess the wind was a little out of the left and it just kind of bled it a little bit right of the hole, but it was a nice birdie.  
I just had a couple sloppy holes there on 15 and 16 which ended up being the difference between being in the playoff or not.   But I'm happy with the way I played and keep building on it, keep putting myself in this position.   Hopefully I can kind of close the deal some time.  
   
 Q.   A lot of players stumbled at the 16th today.   The wind was really gusting.   Hard to draw a club?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah.   I actually ‑‑ I miss hit it just slightly but I still thought it had plenty to get on to the green, and then obviously a terrible chip.  
It definitely was ‑‑ I think it was blowing harder.   I had the same number that I had on 14.   I hit what I thought was the same shot, and I mean it wasn't even close.  
   
 Q.   And a good weekend for the Canadian relief fund.   You're matching, giving $1,000 for every birdie and PGA Tour of Canada will match that.   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah.   So I mean that's nice to be able to help out.   With my, I think it was nine birdies that I had this weekend and there was actually three, PGA Tour Canada, one of the banks, ATB Financial and then another businessman from Saskatoon were all matching.   So nine times four.   That's 45 grand.   That's great.   Hopefully it putts a small dent in what they need.   But our hearts are still with them.   
   
 Q.   All in all pretty good week for you.  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah.   Definitely.   I mean one stroke short.   You look over 72 holes and you can think of a lot of different places where you could have made up that shot, but I'm happy with the way that I played, and I gave myself a chance coming down the stretch and it just didn't quite happen today.  
   
 Q.   One of those days where I don't know how much you look, but nobody could get a grip on it, especially in the first nine.   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   It was tough.   It was by far the toughest day.   I mean the pins were tougher, but obviously the conditions, too.   The greens started firming up just a little bit more than they have the past three days, and you know, it's the pressure on Sunday, too.   It was definitely more difficult today.   I thought that somebody would probably come out three or four back and post something, which Kenny did, and great playing by those two and should be an exciting finish here.  
   
 Q.   What was the difference for you today in terms of maybe not getting those couple extra shots that would have put you in a playoff or maybe the extra shot that you would have won?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, when I kind of think of it, I hit a great shot on 15 and it just went over the back of the green.   I hit a pretty good chip and a poor putt there, so it was kind of a sloppy par and then a sloppy bogey on 16.   And then I had a chance on 17.   A super fast putt, it wasn't one you could really give a good run at, and I knew I would probably go birdie, birdie.   But it was nice to birdie the last one and kind of leave on a good note.  
   
 Q.   What do you take away from this week?  
GRAHAM DeLAET:   You know, I continue to build confidence and know that I belong out here and that I have what it takes to be in that playoff or be in the winning circle.   And the more and more times that I'm here, it becomes easier and easier and I feel like my time's coming and it just hasn't quite been right yet.  
   
 Q.   Nice being able to play well when you were trying to do something nice for Alberta.   
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah.   That was awesome, especially like PGA Tour Canada was matching my donation as well as a bank in Alberta, ATB Financial and then a businessman in Saskatoon.   So with nine birdies times four, 36 grand.   So like I was telling these guys, it probably only putts a small dent in what they need, but our hearts are with them and hopefully it helps a little bit.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT