RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2012
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Graham, just characterize that final round.   Was it another case like the previous where you've just not been able to get anything to go for you?
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah, pretty much.   I couldn't really find any rhythm, and every time I made a birdie, it seemed like I followed with a bogey, and I just didn't quite have it all week.   Pretty much every aspect of my game was just kind of so‑so, and that's kind of how my finish is.

Q.   Going to be low Canadian, looks like assured.   Does that take any of the sting out of it for you?
GRAHAM DeLAET:   You know, I guess it's a nice consolation prize.   You know, we come in here with higher expectations than just trying to beat the Canadians.   We want to beat everyone in the field, but there's a lot of great Canadians in the field, and I guess I am honored to be the low Canadian.   It's my first time.   So hopefully next year it's low Canadian and champion, for whoever it is, whether it be myself or any other Canadian.
But it was a great week, a lot of support.   I got a lot of comments on my outfit today, and it was just cool playing in front of the home fans, and a little disappointing that I wasn't able to really get anything going this week, but at the same time, nice to be back home.

Q.   Where do you go from here next in terms of when you'll play again?
GRAHAM DeLAET:   My next event will be Greensboro the week before the PLAYOFFS, and I should be good for the first playoff event and then trying to make a push, you know, to the second, third and even the TOUR Championship.   There's a lot of points, FedExCup points available in the PLAYOFFS and you get on a nice little run and you can make a move.   So that's kind of the plan.
I'm actually going to Alaska finishing here tonight, so that'll be a nice little week off and regenerate and be ready to go for the next to the last little stretch of the year.

Q.   Did the golf course firm up at all today or is it still obviously there's some scores out there?
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah.   It's pretty soft, the greens especially.   The fairways are getting a little bit of a bounce we noticed on the first couple of tee shots, but it's still playing pretty soft and pretty scorable.   And if you're in control of your ball and making some putts, you're still going to see some low scores.   Brian Harman played great today, which really made me feel like I was playing a lot worse shooting even par watching him all day.   But he played nicely.   He's a good guy to play with.

Q.   Do you have a moment or memory from this week?
GRAHAM DeLAET:   You know, more than anything, just having my family out here, and like just being at home and playing in front of a good crowd.   I had a lot of support, and it's just always nice playing here.

Q.   This time last year of course you're working back from injury.   Obviously you want a better finish here this year, but maybe put in perspective the fact that you're playing pain free?
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah.   The one thing that you realize after an injury and it all gets taken away that it's a privilege to be playing out here, and it kind of puts things in perspective that I'm lucky to be out here and to be playing not quite as well as I would have liked this week.   But I mean that's golf.   You're going to have good weeks, you're going to have bad ones.   Just going forward trying to improve all the time.

Q.   You're on the medical exemption, but are you feeling like your game is coming together?
GRAHAM DeLAET:   Yeah.   I mean I feel like I've been playing solid all year.   I've had a lot of 40th, 50th, 60th place finishes.   Kind of like this week where just not really able to get anything going on the weekend, but making a lot of cuts and putting myself in position to at least be playing four rounds a week is a lot better than playing Thursday, Friday and taking the weekend off.

Q.   Graham, must have been grinding pretty hard on the last just to make that par putt in front of the home crowd?
GRAHAM DeLAET:   It was nice.   I mean same thing.   I hit such a poor tee shots, and then you got really no chance of a long iron from there.   And it was nice to make that last putt.   It was center cut, so I kind of knew halfway there that it was in and I got a nice little cheer and it was a good way to finish, for sure.

Q.   Is that your special Canada outfit?
GRAHAM DeLAET:   It is, yeah.   Sligo put it together for me.   They kind of picked all my outfits for me this week, so hopefully I was looking good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT