RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 23, 2010
Graham DeLaet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What did you make of that round, Graham?
 GRAHAM DeLAET: It was disappointing, once again. Just like yesterday, I really hit the ball well, and just really, really poor putting week for me, so I was disappointed. Looks like I'm going to miss the cut probably by one or two.

 Q. Does that make it more frustrating when you're that close, thinking maybe if a couple of putts go down, I'm right there?
 GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah. It's kind of been like that all year. I think if I do miss by one, it'll be the seventh time this year that I missed by one. So it's kind of a tough pill to swallow. You'd almost rather miss by six or seven and just pack your bags and get out. 
 But you know, I'm still -- I'm playing with a lot of confidence still. I'm hitting the ball extremely well. It was one of my best ball-striking tournaments of the year, and you know, if I can keep that going into West Virginia next week and get the putter going, I should be in good shape.

 Q. A little tougher, too, because it's the Canadian Open and you obviously want to put on a show here. 
 GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah, it's more disappointing missing the cut here than any other week, that's for sure. I had high expectations, and you know, just meant a lot to me, too. 
 But I'll be back next year, I'm sure. And hopefully I can play a little better then. 

 Q. This is your second Canadian Open. How would you sum up your first PGA TOUR season?
 GRAHAM DeLAET: You know, a little up-and-down. I'm not playing quite as well as I would like to, but I'm hanging in there, I guess, so to speak, and you know, I'm still in good shape to keep my card for next year, and that was kind of the main goal coming into the season. 

 Q. What's it like playing on that course today after that rain this morning?
 GRAHAM DeLAET: Yeah. It was soft. It was -- you know, it was still super -- I'm sorry. What's the word? My mind's just kind of gone. 
 You know, it was -- sorry. But you know, it was receptive, so I mean you could still hit good shots, and you could get it close to the hole. And you know, there was birdies to be made, and I think now it might be getting a little bit more difficult. The wind started to blow our last few holes, but it was still playing -- it was pretty scorable this morning. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT