NL DIVISION SERIES: CUBS VS NATIONALS
October 12, 2017
Addison Russell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Cubs - 9, Nationals - 8   
 Q.  The offense woke up tonight.  How much is this going to help you going forward into the Los Angeles series?  
ADDISON RUSSELL: I think the bats have been there this whole series.  It's just balls fell tonight, back and forth, the whole ballgame.  It was a great ballgame played and just happy to come out on top.   
 Q.  You lose a heartbreaker yesterday in tough conditions, yet you come on the road and find a way to gut one out.  What about winning this series against that team with everything they have accomplished this year?  
ADDISON RUSSELL: You know, that's a great ballclub over there, the Nationals.  We have nothing but the utmost respect for them.  Just great ballplayers all around.  You know, we have set goals as a team, and I think that we're on our way to hitting those goals.   
It's just a great ballgame, all said.   
 Q.  You talk about a great ballgame.  With everything this team has been through the last couple of years, where does this game, this moment, this back and forth, this roller coaster, where does this rank in all the check marks that you guys have had?  
ADDISON RUSSELL: I would say that this is the most fun I've had playing in a baseball game, and it ranks right up there with winning the World Series; being down 3-1 in the World Series.   
Just to see the fight that my team had, and to stand behind every single one; everyone's up there top-stepping every pitch.  Just to see like the energy, you know, flow within the dugout was just -- I get chills just talking about it.  It was awesome.   
 Q.  You were down 4-1 in the game and you crawled back and get two more runs.  What is it like to have that four-run inning against Scherzer?  
ADDISON RUSSELL: Huge.  Huge.  You look out there and you see Scherzer up there and you think one of the best, if not the best pitcher out there on the mound.  And he's coming in the middle of the game, and you kind of have to change your game plan, your approach, because he's a starter; now he's throwing in the bullpen.   
So yeah, he's definitely a competitor.  Really, really stepping up to that plate.  Just want to get something over the plate.  Try not to do too much.  Just move the runners, and ended up driving in two runs.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT