NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: OILERS v MIGHTY DUCKS
May 24, 2006
Todd Harvey
Steve Staios
Jarret Stoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Maybe for Steve and for Todd.  The first part, can you just talk about what was going through your minds before the game when you're listening to the National Anthem and the whole crowd takes over.  And Jarret, if you can maybe talk about how they responded to when the fans in San Jose booed the anthem and what they did when the games came back here and they cheered through the National Anthem? 
 TODD HARVEY:  Well, obviously, it's pretty exciting being here.  I've been here before on the other side of that.  And, you know, the fans bring an energy to this building that is undescribable really.  The hairs on your neck tend to stand up a little bit.  I thought they did a pretty good job singing the anthem all in unison. 
 But we need them here just to give us that little boost of energy and I thought they did a good job there the other night. 
 STEVE STAIOS:  I mean, this is the best building, the best city to play in.  Our fans have always been there for us and they deserve all the excitement that's coming with this playoff run that we're on.  Never seen anything quite like that last night with the anthem, but that was pretty amazing.  Something you'll never forget. 
 As far as what happened in San Jose, I think they have good fans down there.  I think maybe they were just trying to support their team.  Made a bad decision obviously on booing the national anthem.  It's just fans being fans.  It's emotional, it's emotional for us and everything and sometimes they just make the wrong judgment I think. 
 Q.  Fellows I want to get your thoughts on it.  The Ducks feel they have some momentum now for the first time in this series, you're sick, you're tired.  How important is it to get this deal down tomorrow night? 
 JARRET STOLL:  We didn't want to give them any life last night, for one thing.  I think we did give them a little bit of life, obviously, there in the third period, but we still found a way to win the game and that's really, for us guys, for everybody involved, that's all that really matters, and we found a way to do it. 
 Again, tomorrow night, we don't want to go back to Anaheim.  We want to end this thing right here, right now.  That's how we've been playing this whole playoffs.  We've been winning big games, going into Detroit winning Game 5, big win.  Going into San Jose, Game 5, big win and giving ourselves the opportunity to win, and to win a series.  And when you get that opportunity, you want to take advantage of it and you don't want to give any team any life, because sometimes that's all they need. 
 Q.  Waking up this morning, you're one win from being in the Stanley Cup final.  I mean, is there a point there somewhere where you say, how the heck did we get here? 
 JARRET STOLL:  Unfortunately, I start to think about it right when I'm taking a nap, then I'm wide awake again.  I've said this before, but to get to this situation we've shown a lot of maturity.  There's been some adverse times that we've gone through, and I think we've done a very good job of keeping it all in perspective and keeping it one game at a time. 
 We got the win last night, not quite the fashion we wanted to get it done in, but we got the win nonetheless.  Now we prepare and focus for Game 4 and I think that's how we're going to win the Stanley Cup.  We have to just sort of keep things in speculative. 
 So the thought of going to the finals and winning the Stanley Cup is always in the back of your mind, but sometimes you have to reel it in and keep it in speculative. 
 TODD HARVEY:  I woke up with some little rug rat jumping on me today, so that was normal as usually.  But like Steve said, you know, you play a long time and to get to this point, and I know a lot of guys in the dressing room have not had that opportunity to play for the Stanley Cup, and, you know, when you're one win away, it's hard not to think about. 
 Like Steve said, we need to just focus on the task at hand, and I think our coaching staff has done an excellent job of keeping us focused, you know, on an even keel, not getting ahead of ourselves.  And the guys in the dressing room, we've got a lot of veteran leadership in the dressing room that, you know, know what it takes to get there.  And obviously we got some warriors in there, you know, keeping everybody in this line.  And I think that, you know, after -- if we get the fourth win, then we can start talking about it more. 
 STEVE STAIOS:  You start talking to guys and some guys go their whole career without getting to a Cup final, let alone winning a cup.  So we realize in the room, that whether it's our first Stanley Cup playoffs or the older guys on our team, that we have a great opportunity here, as a group of guys, the way we're playing, the way we battle for each other, the way, you know, we're just playing like machines.  We do what we have to do to win a game.  Maybe at the time, it doesn't look like a big deal on the ice, but over the course the game, it wins us the game. 
 I think about it everything once in a while, but it's nothing like -- like Steve said, you can't get too far ahead of yourself and wrapped up in it.  Once the time comes, I'm sure we'll be pretty excited about it, if that does come.  You got to take it in stride and not get too high or too low and stay even keel.  And that's the way we've been going the whole playoffs. 
 We're a fun group of guys.  We have fun out there and we're a pretty loose team, and I think that's why we're playing so well. 
 Q.  For all the guys, and maybe if we can go Steve, Jarret, and Todd.  Can you go back to maybe early April, late March, you guys were working hard to get into the playoffs.  There were all kinds of things going on.  And where you are now, if you could kind take us through the maturation process to being a win away from getting into the final two and having a chance to win the Cup? 
 JARRET STOLL:  We didn't hit the playoffs exactly how we wanted to.  We were watching games, you know, scoreboard watching, and having to win a game here on the home, and then watching Vancouver and San Jose play to see if you're going to make the playoffs is not quite the way that you want to get in. 
 But we knew that we had the -- we were capable of getting on a roll.  We hadn't hit our full stride, and there were a couple times I think during these playoffs where we elevated our game and you know there was a couple instances in the Detroit series where we built confident off games, and, you know, that just sort of started to roll.  And that's the way we're feeling right now. 
 We just feel like we have elevated our game.  We can elevate it some more still, but we're on pace now, or we have a feeling that if we do the little things right, we're going to win the game, and that's the type of confidence you need to win. 
 Obviously, Rollie's been there and the goaltending has been solid for us, and that's another reason that's helped build our confidence.  But there are certain things that have happened that make you believe that you can win, and we have that feeling right now. 
 STEVE STAIOS:  Yeah.  Obviously it was a pretty hectic last month and a half, two months with everything going on.  And you know every single day you win a game, it feels like you've won the cup.  You lose a game, it feels like someone passed away.  It was the way that things were going for our team.  Every game was so huge, you know, it was like two months of playoffs down the stretch.  I think it got us stronger as a team. 
 Obviously we battled through all that and found a way to get into the playoffs.  Like Steve said, not the way we exactly planned for to get in, but we got in nonetheless.  A lot things have been happening.  Goaltending, Rollie's been solid, and Prong's back there.  He's been a wall, he's been a warrior.  Everybody's just battling for each other. 
 Our penalty kill's been great, our power players have scored big goals, and every different game a new guy is stepping up.  Toby Petersen getting the big goal last night and just another example of just everybody coming together at the right time and doing the right things.  It's really nice it see. 
 You can kind of feel it through the Detroit series that we were building something very special in the room.  I could feel it, and I'm sure everybody else could that we were doing the things that we had to do to win.  We would do anything that it took to do that.  The things that comes to mind, Shawn Horcoff blocking that shot in Game 5 against Detroit there -- I think it was Game 5, pretty much head-first.  It was something that, you know, right then and there, anything it took to win the game, and even if that meant, you know, getting a broken jaw, losing some teeth, whatever.  Smitty looses some of teeth here from Prong's shot.  Those are the things that, you know, just we'll do anything to win that game, and eventually anything to win the cup. 
 TODD HARVEY:  I think there was a lot of pressure on us to get into the playoffs.  Obviously the team, you know, with the new NHL, we had some acquisitions to the team with Pronger and Peca.  And I think a lot of high expectations for this team throughout on the season.  And we had some good spurts and we had some downs. 
 But I think once we get into the playoffs, the slate was clean, and I think it took a little bit of pressure off a lot of guys in that dressing room.  And I know against Detroit we just -- you know, there was an air of confident.  I wasn't say a cockiness, but confidence in our ability.  We knew we were going to beat Detroit.  And once you get on a roll and everybody starts feeling that, like these guys said here, it's a weird feeling.  Because it seems like, you know, you look to the guy beside you and you know he's going to be there to do the things that you would do if you had to do it for him. 
 It's just a great feeling right now and we just got to keep it rolling. 
 Q.  For all the guys, can you just talk about the transformation at home, the 6-1 record.  Home ice was a problem all year long.  You were better on the road for the longest time, and talk about the significance of being so solid at home? 
 TODD HARVEY:  Like I said before, there's a lot of pressure on us throughout the year and I didn't think we responded well here at home.  I think we tried to do too much.  Because we're a pretty good road team throughout the season and I think that's just a product of trying to do too much at home.  And, you know, the expectations of us maybe having a good home record sort of wore on us a bit I think during the year. 
 But, now this building is pretty crazy in here and it seems to give us a little confidence now when we're out there, if we're down a goal or up a goal, we can come back.  And if we need a goal, we know they're going to be there to give us that boost. 
 Q.  You guys are blocking a lot of shots, and I wanted to ask you when you do that, how do you know when you've got into the heads of the Duck shooter because you see them pulling up and hesitating, and how much is commitment and how much is technique? 
 TODD HARVEY:  Well, we've had rubber pucks out on a number of indications much Mac T was a shot blocker his whole career, so the a little bit is technique and timing.  But a lot of it is reaction as well.  And I think the trick for a defenseman, I think the key for a defenseman is to know when to try and step into the lane and shoot when the shot's coming through or to try to get out of your goaltender's way.  With the new rules, there's been an adjustment this year for defensemen.  Either step in front of them or box them out, you can't use the old tricks of trade.  Pushing in the back of the legs and stuff like that, you'll get called nowadays. 
 So I think that when you give guys out of your element blocking shots, Sergei Samsonov has had some huge shot blocks.  He's known for that.  He's known for dangling up the ice with a puck and making guys miss, but that builds a feeling of commitment from the team, and, you know, a feeling of pride.  And we don't let that go unnoticed, especially in our locker room.  As big as the goals are and the game winning goals, the shot blocks and getting the puck in at the line and big hits are just as important.  And those are the type of elements that we believe you need to win the Stanley Cup.  And so we always applaud those plays.  I think that's where that comes from. 
 Q.  How about getting into the heads of shooters? 
 TODD HARVEY:  I guess you'd have to ask them.  I don't know if we're in the heads of them or not.  But we've had good commitment from our forwards coming back in the slot area and clogging up the good areas of the ice, and we feel confident that if we can keep the shots from the outside, that Rollie's going to be there for us.  He's been great.  Obviously he's been controlling the rebounds. 
 So I don't know if we're in their heads, but we're certainly going to continue to make ourselves look as big in front of them as we possibly can. 
 Q.  What's going through your mind, Steve, when Georges is giving the thumbs-up on the big screen after his second fight, which seemed to infuriate some of the Ducks players by some accounts, and I guess Todd can follow that up?  Do you think this series could get even nastier with more fights in Game 4? 
 JARRET STOLL:  I think Georges is an emotional guy when he gets out there.  It's a tough job.  I don't think anybody wants to do the job that he does.  And if his emotions get the better of him sometimes, I think we can forgive him for it.  I think that -- you know, I don't think that -- if it did infuriate their team and cause some emotions, we handled it.  We ended up getting the win anyway, and I feel we're equipped to play any type of game that their team wants to play.  If it's going to be physical or if it's going to be a skating game, I feel we have all assets on our team that can combat that. 
 As far as Georges going out there and doing his job, that's what he does.  And the antics after, you know, it is what it is.  It happened.  We got through the game and refocused for Game 4. 
 TODD HARVEY:  Obviously I think it's emotions.  I mean, you look at the building and the time of the game and the way things were transpiring, he plays hard.  And like Steve said, that's a tough job.  And I know for a fact he was asked to go a second time there and he obliged.  And, you know Georges just let's his motions get to him. 
 But I think all in all, it was -- he fired the fans up, obviously, and probably fired them up.  But I think -- I don't think we need to read anything into it. 
 Q.  Steve can answer this.  You've all talked about how great the fans are here and how great the building has been, but maybe eight or nine or ten years ago, it wasn't certain that this team would be able to survive here because the economics, and they might move to Houston.  How unimaginable would it have been that the Edmonton Oilers not be here now and not still be in the NHL? 
 STEVE STAIOS:  Well, it would be -- I mean, I've been here for five years, and it's been the support here and the organization's been stable and, you know, the fans have been there for us.  I'm not sure how it was nine years ago.  To imagine that hockey wouldn't be in Edmonton is very difficult to imagine.  I know that you don't get this type of reaction, excitement anywhere else in the world for hockey, and, you know, so it is difficult to imagine that it wouldn't be here. 
 And you know, when you talk about people living and breathing hockey every day of the year is like that.  At times it becomes, for a player, you think, you know, it's a lot of pressure.  But it depends on just how you react to that and you enjoy it.  But if you ask any player that's ever played in this city, it's probably where they've enjoyed playing the most.  It has been for me. 
 Q.  How's your roommate?  Have you bumped into Raffi, are you allowed to get within a hundred feet of him now?  For all of you up there, if you don't mind guys, can you just tell me, I think Toby dedicated his goal last night to his wife, is there anything special outside of the team, the city, that you might be kind of thinking about sometimes at this point of the year? 
 JARRET STOLL:  Which roommate are you talking about?  Raffi or Harvey here?  Raffi, I seen him ten minutes ago, he's in the room, and I think he's lost a little bit of weight, looks pretty slim in there.  But, he definitely can't keep much food down.  He's feeling pretty weak and he said he could probably go tomorrow, but who knows what the line up is going to be like. 
 He's struggling out there, but I'm sure he'll be ready to go pretty soon.  Just needs some food and fluids, energy going.  Get that weight back up and he'll be fine. 
 But as for Toby Petersen, you know, I think he just got married and he's starting a family.  I think his wife is pregnant, and, you know, it's was a great night for him last night and hopefully many more to come.  He's a great guy.  I played with him last year here with the Roadrunners, and he's just a very polite guy that works hard every game.  He's been around for a while, in the minors for a little while, and he's been in Pittsburgh's system previously.  So it's good to have him, good to have him step in and do the job, you know.  Definitely doing something for our team like everything else is. 
 And for me, my family's been there from day one.  They've driven miles and miles for me, and, you know, from when I was three or four starting hockey to now.  They, living in Saskatchewan, they've driven back and for from Saskatchewan to BC a number of times to watch me play junior, and they do the same here.  They'll hop in the van 7, 8 in the morning and drive all day, watch the game and see me for ten minutes in the player's lounge after the game and then drive back. 
 And Dad will be at work the next morning 6, 7, 8, so that's the mentality my parents have to come and watch me play and support me.  And it's nice to see them after a big game or after a rough game.  They're always there for me no matter what, good or bad.  So it's obviously nice to have support anyway you can get it. 
 TODD HARVEY:  Well, I think Toby's done a heck of a job.  Congratulations to him.  He's really lifted our team.  I was glad to see that his wife was able to make it in.  I know the other night he told me he didn't now if his parents were going to be able to watch in Anaheim.  He didn't know until after warm-up he was going to play.  So hopefully they got a chance to get on the TV and watch him.  But he's done a great job for us, so if he can just keep doing what he's doing, it would be great. 
 For me, obviously, I think my kids are getting older now, my boy's nine.  My wife is a hockey wife.  She's pretty much raising the kids by herself for the last ten years.  So for them, it's pretty special, and, you know, I just want them to be there and be able to experience it the way I'm getting to experience it.  And I think, you know, he's pretty excited.  I know he called my wife last night and was pretty fired up when it was 4-0, and so I hope he didn't go to bed because he probably would have had a heart attack if he seen what happened after it was 4-0.  And my whole family and the community back home, they've always supported me throughout my career.  If we get a chance to do something special, I'd like to do it for everybody. 
 STEVE STAIOS:  I think, first of all, you think of your mom and dad, and then your family.  Like everybody said, there's a huge commitment, and for all of us, everyone's had that type of support.  I know coming out after the game and you turn your phone on and there's ten or fifteen message.  You think of your mom and dad and the commitment that they've made, and you think of how you're going to have to reintroduce yourself to your wife and kids after this playoff run because it really has been focused and business-like and huge commitment by them, by my wife. 
 That's who you think of when you do start imagining winning the Stanley Cup and those types of things, those are the people you think of.  And my parents did the same thing, driving around in junior and following me around.  You get emotional thinking about it, so you just don't think about it too much.  Stay focused, play, and then enjoy and reflect on it after. 
 Q.  What would you guys say to an observer who might suggest that you guys haven't had your legs since the middle of the second period in Game 2 and that for serious stretches, Anaheim has out played you in this series? 
 JARRET STOLL:  Well, at times obviously, we didn't have the jump, the excitement in our game that we wanted to.  Our style of play is definitely get the puck in deep and get on the forecheck, use our speed, drive the D wide, stuff like that that we think we can take advantage of them.  You know, we're not going to lie to you, we didn't have our legs, but in the end, we found a way it win the hockey game. 
 Over the course of the first three games, they have had some pressure on us, and sustained pressure at times, but I think we've done a heck of a job in the D zone with our good sticks, our good body position, blocking shots, trying to keep things to the outside.  If they get the puck in our zone for a minute, minute and a half, and things are on the outside, things are where we wanted them to be, we're in the too worried about that.  We're not too worried about Rollie making a save from out there.  If they get those good quality chances in the slot, in tight, that's something we got to worry about. 
 I remember think in Anaheim, especially in Anaheim Games 1 and 2, we did a heck of a job of checking, good sticks, like I said, just battling, battling on the walls and winning battles on the walls, just trying to keep them to the outside.  And if they're going to be in our zone, that's the way we want it keep it. 
 Q.  For each of the fellows, given how hard you had to play all the way down the stretch just to get in the normal playoff grind that every team goes through plus the sickness that's going through the team, how important is it to end this as fast as you can just to buy some time to heal and get better? 
 STEVE STAIOS:  I think it would be great if we could end this quickly.  Rest is always good at this time of the year, and you know, as far as what we're battling in the room, I think we're past it.  I think we're getting over it.  And so I think we'll have more energy tomorrow night.  We play a high-energy game, especially in this building.  And we haven't played our best.  Our game will get better, and we're going to get more energy and get on the forecheck, and that's where we're most effective. 
 Ending it quick is our goal.  I mean, we obviously want to come out with a big performance tomorrow night, but again, we've really focused on taking it one game at a time.  Get the game plan together tomorrow morning and focus our day on getting ready for the game tomorrow night. 
 JARRET STOLL:  I think it's huge.  Any time you have an opportunity to take a team out and to do it, like I said before, not give them any life or belief that they can come back in this series.  You know, we gave them a little bit of belief last night that they could come back and win it, but, you just got to get past that and keep going and keep pushing.  You know, we need a big effort.  We got to outplay them tomorrow night.  We have to outplay them in every aspect of the game.  We got to be disciplined.  We got to, like Steve said, get on the forecheck, play our style of game that got us to this point.  If we do that, I'm sure we'll be pretty happy after the game.  We'll be, you know, hopefully enjoying it.  That's our goal. 
 That is the way we want it and that's the way we want to do it.  Like I said before, we don't want to go back to Anaheim if we don't have to, just take advantage of this opportunity that we've given ourselves. 
 STEVE STAIOS:  I just think having a chance to close t out on the home, we don't want to go back to Anaheim.  We've done a good jobs in the last two series, being able to close it out at home here.  We need to come ready and I don't think we've played or best game, like Steve said, if we get our legs going and get on the forecheck and make some things happen down low in their zone. 


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT