ING NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
October 29, 2009
Abdi Abdirahman
Ryan Hall
Meb Keflezighi
Jason Lehmkuhle
Brian Sell
Jorge Torres
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARY WITTENBERG: 2009 ING New York City Marathon. I look at these guys, wow. Wow. Any single one of these gentlemen could win gold, silver, or bronze on marathon day. It is so incredibly gratifying and rewarding to be able to say that and to be able to have these guys here. 
 It's really been a decade in the making. When we last hosted the USA Men's Championships, it was in 2001, and we were really proud of our guys for being here and our women. It was a time when it was really hard to get on airplanes and a time of great nervousness, and our men and our women stood strong at the start line. 
 That year the American men ran their hearts out and Scott Larson ran a good race. And they were 14th and 15th in the event overall. 
 Last year, we had five guys in the top 11, and we're looking to beat that this year, gentlemen. 
 We had in 2007 the privilege to host the men's Olympic trials. It's an event that forever changed us and the New York Road Runners and every one of our athletes, and it was a moment that was full of such a contrast of great joy and great sorrow. 
 And I know as we celebrate these men coming back and the reunion this year, that we'll all have Ryan Shay in our hearts. And I also know that our men have only gotten stronger since that event. 
 As we look forward to Sunday, we look forward to these guys having the chance to rewrite history. So we welcome each of you. I should add that we have $180,000 of additional American prize money in the purse, for a total of $800,00. We'll have 35 to 40 athletes in the Championships. And we'll have the best grouped American men ever to step to the line against the World's best. 
 You all know us in New York City. There is nothing easy about this event. I don't think there is any title better -- any title harder earned than the title of ING New York City Marathon champion. I don't believe there is any podium as tough to land on. 
 And as is our style at New York Road Runners, we don't cater to our American athletes by watering down fields. We do nothing but ratchet up when they come here, because we really believe in them. 
 So our American men will face our best field ever, as you guys know, the likes of Kwambai and Makau and Gharib, and Marilson Gomes Dos Santos, and the list goes on. So to get to each of them, I'm just proud to say you can count on these guys being in the mix and more. 
 First, Abdi Abdirahman. I don't even think to use your last name, Abdi. A fan favorite from kids to adults. We welcome you back. I want you to know we have already picked out the child that will hold to our promise. If you win, you get to take a child on the victory lap with you from our youth running program, so that child's ready to go, Abdi. 
 Meb, the only American man in over a decade to stand on our podium with bronze and silver medals. The closest American man ever to win this race. He's on a tear as he comes back, having a really good year in 2009, we know you're seeking redemption, we welcome you back Meb Keflezighi. 
 Ryan Hall, such a big, big London, that was such a massive time. Ran the second fastest ever. You ran that life affirming trials race, if you run like you ran that day, Ryan, you'll win this race. 
 Brian Sell, we were not going to hear of Brian Sell retiring before running New York. There was no way. The ripple effect of your making that Olympic team, and your running the way you've run in the last two trials and the way you've run in all these events over all these years is simply massive. And I think when we look at the next generation of high schoolers, we're going to I hope in four to eight years, we're going to have a number of young guys and women who stand up and say Brian Sell inspired me. 
 Jorge Torres, another debut, many years in the making. We are so -- I can't tell you how pleased we are to host Jorge's debut. It means so much to us. He's run incredibly well here. Winning our USA 8k Championships. Jorge we welcome you. 
 Jason Lehmkuhle has been rock solid over all these years. Getting better, and better, and better. Such a strong Olympic trials. Fifth place behind the Olympic team makers in Khalid Khannouchi. That was a blue chip performance, Jason, you run like that, and you're going to have a really good day on Sunday. So we welcome you, gentlemen, and we want to turn your attention to the video. 
 [Video playing]
 RICHARD FINN: What we're going to do now is I'm going to ask each of the athletes to make a quick opening comment about being here and the preparations. Then we'll open it up for questions. We'll start on the far side, Jason? 
 JASON LEHMKUHLE: Thanks. I'm so excited to be here, back in New York this year. It's, as you see with the video, it's incredibly competitive field. Certainly the most, the deepest American field since the '07 trials here. Most competitive marathon I've ever been in. So I'm really excited to be here, and I can't wait for Sunday. 
 JORGE TORRES: I just want to thank New York Road Runners for putting on such a great event, and giving me the opportunity to debut here at such a great event. This is like, you know, something I've been trying to build for, to run a marathon. To be on the world stage and the media capital of the world. It's a great opportunity, I just hope not to disappoint myself and the American public. I think us Americans have a good shot at contending for a title. So it will be good. 
 BRIAN SELL: I'd just like to echo what these guys said. Thank you to New York Road Runners and the sponsors for having us. It's very exciting to be here on the 40th running. And what better race to do it at. So, thank you. 
 RYAN HALL: I'm excited to actually be running this year. I've been here since 2006 watching this race. I'm getting tired of watching, so it's really exciting to be here. Thanks to New York Road Runners for bringing me out. 
 I have a lot to run for this year with the new foundation we're starting, the Hall Steps Foundation. Just have a big heart for this race, and it really inspired me to get into marathoning in the first place. So I'm really excited to be here and finally be running. 
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: I'd like to ask everybody to put their head down for one second for Ryan Shay. But this is my first time coming back since 2007. I've been to New York many, many times. But for whatever reason I wasn't able to come last year. I'm excited. This has been a great year for me, and I look forward to Sunday. 
 ABDI ABDIRAHMAN: Basically this is my second home, New York. I think I've run this race many times. So I think I have a good vibe for it. But this year, there is something about this race, about this year, you know, just I've been feeling good. Everything's been going well. 
 And just like everyone I see out there they say, Oh, you look happy, Abdi. You look good. You look fit. Things have been going well. I'm just so happy to be back in New York. I'm not going to predict anything. But I think the air, there is just something about the air this year. I just have a good feeling. 
 So I'm ready to run, and I'm glad to be running with Ryan and all the guys. So, you know, just going to have a group of guys up in the front. We won't just be me and Meb or me and Ryan. We're going to have as a team. So it's going to be great. Great day for American distance running on Sunday. 
 RICHARD FINN: To point out two other people, we'd like to acknowledge Jill Grear and Jim Estes here with us. And, again, we always welcome our friends from U.S. track and field here. Peter? 

 Q. I was just wondering if you've had a chance to talk much to your coach Steve Jones who won here in 1988 about ways to run on this course and some strategies that you might have in mind as the race unfolds? 
 JORGE TORRES: Well, I keep on asking Steve about the race, but he keeps on putting it off. He told me just relax. Don't worry about it. We'll talk about it as soon as it's closer to the race. So we're cutting it pretty close, coach. I don't know when we're going to talk about it, but sooner or later we'll probably talk about it (smiling).

 Q. In the last couple of weeks or maybe two weeks out from here, have you had any specific workout that's given you a really good idea of what you might be able to do and telling you that you're in the kind of shape that you want to be in? 
 JORGE TORRES: The marathon's a whole new event for me. I can't base myself off any workouts because I've never done a marathon. But I have hit some pretty solid workouts and I'm just excited. I know I'm in pretty good shape. I'm probably in one of the best forms I've ever been in my life. So I just hope that it translates over to the marathon.

 Q. And Jorge, you ran the Great North and was that the longest, the Half Marathon several weeks ago? Was that your longest? 
 JORGE TORRES: That's correct. That was a preparation race for this. The Half Marathon was the longest I've ever raced.

 Q. And you finished? 
 JORGE TORRES: I finished 7th.

 Q. This is sort of like an interesting scenario in that you have a race within a race. You have the overall race, and then you have the US Championship. How are you going to approach it with your goals and your strategy based on being in essentially two events running simultaneously? 
 ABDI ABDIRAHMAN: I'm just coming into this race. I'm not looking at two races. This is only one race, and there only can be one winner. So I'm only going into the race with one mentality, and that is to be the first to cross the finish line. If I'm the first American that's a blast. But the main thing is not to look just at the Americans. We're out there to go race, that's it. To be the first to cross the finish line. 
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: Well, it's a race of 26.2 miles, and it's going to be like Meb said, the best in the world. And we're going to compete against them, and you know, we can't -- if that's the case, then, we just run the best we can. We're all going to run our hearts out. Not just for the U.S. Championship, but that's a bonus. But the racers compete against the best in the world, and we'll see what happens. 
 RYAN HALL: Yeah, it is interesting having the two races because I haven't really thought too much about it. I mean, like I am so for all these guys that are up here. I can see any of us gets on the podium or gets that top spot that's a victory for like America, you know. 
 So it's hard to be like, oh, I don't really feel competitive towards these guys. I feel more like we're going to be working together. I know I've trained some with Meb, so I know that I'll be encouraging him out there. It's not like, oh, I've got to beat Meb. It's like how can Meb and I and all these guys, how can we finish as high as possible? 
 BRIAN SELL: Yeah, I mean, Ryan put it very well. You know, it would be great if we were 1 through 6 right here. That would be fine with me. Yeah, it's going to be an exciting race to find out how it went when we all finish, I think. So I think we're all -- we all have our goals in mind, and hopefully we're all racing and attacking in that second half. That would be great. 
 JORGE TORRES: Like these guys said, we're all here for one mission, and one mission only. As Americans we're here to show the world that we've made it to the top. And you know, I'm just happy to be a part of it, so...
 JASON LEHMKUHLE: These guys covered it very well. And all the Americans here I don't think they'd tell you they're racing only in an American championship. They're running the New York Marathon. And everybody's here to, you know, run 26.2 miles as fast as they can and place as high as they can in the field. So, yeah, I'm with Brian. If we finish 1 through 6, that would be pretty good.

 Q. Since it is two races, will you have two podiums or two separate ceremonies? 
 MARY WITTENBERG: Yes. 
 RICHARD FINN: Yes, we will. Yes, yes, we will.

 Q. This question for the new guys who haven't run the course yet. Have you had much of an opportunity to get out on the course in the outer boroughs? And those of you that ran the trials, what is your first impression on the difficulty of this course compared to the loop course in the park? 
 RICHARD FINN: Jorge, I think you're making your debut here? Any thoughts about the course, anything you've heard? 
 JORGE TORRES: I've talked to a few people who have experience running the course. And they've about given me their opinions on where everybody makes some moves, and be careful with the gradual hills because there are hills out there. It's just one of those things that I haven't had a chance to actually run it myself, but I've seen it. I've seen it on TV many times, and I've observed how the race breaks down once a year every year. 
 So I have that in my mind, and I'm going to take that visualization and take it into my race. 
 RICHARD FINN: Ryan has not run the course. He's run here in Central Park. Ryan, your comments? Though you've practiced on the course several times. 
 RYAN HALL: Yeah, when you asked the question I was looking at these guys because I feel like I've run this race. I've been out here a whole bunch of times. I've been on the lead vehicle which was awesome. Got to see the course really well that way. Got to see Meb run with these guys. 
 Then I previewed the last 20 mile. I've tempoed the last six miles. Run loops and loops around Central Park, gotten dizzy doing that. 
 So I think how it compares to the trials course, I have no idea because you don't know until you race it, you know. You've been having to run, it's a lot different experience racing it. It's definitely it has undulation. You run the last 20 miles I didn't feel like there was a stretch, it was just flat for a long time. So I think it's very similar to the Central Park trials course. 
 So I think it's going to be a fun course to run. I'll let you know how it goes afterwards. We'll see. But I know like coming into Central Park for all of us who ran the trials, it's going to be kind of like a breath of fresh air. Like some real familiarity with the trials course, so it will be like, oh, made it. We're in Central Park. We know how to run the park. So that will be a good advantage to have in the last mile of the race. 
 RICHARD FINN: Brian, you've run Central Park but not the marathon course. 
 BRIAN SELL: Yeah, I came out about a month ago and ran the first 20, 22 miles of it. And the next day ran the last 16 or so, so I've seen them both. My comparison would be it just seems like the real course, Sunday's course has a few more long grinders in Central Park is more a quarter to half mile of rolling hills. So I think they're very similar. They're both extremely difficult, I think. So it will be interesting.

 Q. A lot has been said about your retiring from marathoning. So you threatened that even after the trials last time and had a great race there. Two things: What's it going to be like to retire? And if you have a great race on Sunday, do you think you might change your mind? 
 BRIAN SELL: I caught lightning in a bottle here in 2007, and if I repeat that, that would be great. If I run a good one here, you know, it would make me very happy. But, yeah, I mean, I'm just feeling it more than I was in 2007, just my hips and everything, you know, kind of getting a little older here and there. And I'm looking forward to just taking her easy and running in the mornings just so I can eat a nice big breakfast and no other reason. That will be nice. 
 You know, anything's possible. I mean, if I go out and hit a top 5 finish, that will definitely make me think twice.

 Q. You've spoken about running as a team. It reminds me of the way the Kenyans run the world cross country championship. Could you maybe talk a little bit more about how that works running as a team? Or is it just a case of encouraging each other as you go? 
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: Well, it's working together is what it is. You have 26.2 miles. And whether you exchange leads or Ryan and I have done that once on his first one in London. Where we ask each other how we're feeling, and even water bottles and things like that. Just assist each other. 
 When you train together that's positive energy, and you keep it going. You know, obviously this race there's such a lot of great fields, you've got to be a little bit patient and see where it goes. But it's just helping each other out with encouragements or by taking chances on the lead and things like that. 
 JORGE TORRES: I think a lot of us have run over the years in many races together. And having each other around we kind of know each other's tendencies, so that really helps us when we're in the middle of the race with an international field just to know who is around you and to see some familiar faces it really helps out.

 Q. Of international runners, who are the guys you know will be up there? And who do you think will be battling for the lead championship right down the home stretch here? Give us a few names? 
 MEB KEFLEZIGHI: The field's very loaded, but I mean you have Gharib, who is a smart racer from the Olympics. Dos Santos obviously knows how to run the course. And two-time defending champion, and you have James Kwambai who ran over 27. So I mean, it's a stacked field. 
 But part of being a marathoner is to get healthy, and get to the starting line. If you mention, it's half of the battle, and to see what the training has done and the mental competition. I'm just lucky to see these guys up here, and I think it's going to be a strong contender. Last time we had a great show was 2006 in Boston where we were third, fourth, and fifth. If we can replicate that close to that or better, it will be a great show for us. 
 RICHARD FINN: Ryan, handicap the field? Abdi, anybody? Going to keep an eye on anybody? 
 ABDI ABDIRAHMAN: I think Meb just said it all. The field's loaded. There are a lot of great athletes. You can't just call like one name. You know, as you can see the list of entrants, the field is loaded, and it's going to be a tough race, so. 
 RICHARD FINN: As a point, last year we had four Americans in the Top 10. In 1982 we had five Americans in the Top 10. And that's also in your media guide. 
 Before we wrap, and again, we'll have everybody here. One more? 

 Q. I was wondering how will we know whether the Torres that starts the race will be the same Torres that finishes the race? 
 JORGE TORRES: Jorge's a little heavier these days, so. If I seem to gain a lot of weight over the 26.2 miles, it's Eduardo (laughing). 
 RICHARD FINN: Thanks. We'll make sure we keep an eye on that. 
 Just as a reference for all the media before we bring back Mary, I encourage everybody to take a look beyond the stats. It's in your media guide. There are two very nice background pieces on hear hay and Brian that I hope you will report it. 
 We'll have everybody, all the Americans, all the athletes available. We'll sort of break it down. If you could just wait a few minutes after we close so we have the athletes in the back and situated before we continue. Mary. 
 MARY WITTENBERG: Thank you. I do want to join Richard in saying on behalf of all of us at New York Road Runners and our chairman of the board, George Hirsch, we especially thank USA Track and Field, Jill and Jim and Doug Logan for officially hosting the USA Track and Field Championships. 
 In New York, we're always looking forward, these last many years we have focused on promoting and doing all we can, especially to help develop the American men. In 2001, Deena ran the debut here for the record in the marathon, and the women were on their way, but the men weren't. So the men have been our focus. We'll see on Sunday, but I think they've arrived. 
 So I want to welcome in the crowd. We're going to turn our attention to the ladies. And I hope we have the top American women here within the field next year, and want to call out Shalane Flanagan. Who is here as part of, Ryan mentioned, our most powerful recruiting tool, which is to put the athletes on the trucks. So Shalane Flanagan and Amy Yoder Begley will be on the press truck. 
 And also Ryan said it right in his Twitter. I don't know that I've seen an athlete with the range or as many athletes with the range Sarah Hall has. So after that 10,000 meter run in Tufts, Sarah, I think you should consider keep moving up in distance. 
 Gentlemen, you've got a home here. You really, it's been years in the making. So I really hope you feel home court advantage. We knew today would be a really emotional day. We want you to let it go and now really focus on yourselves. And every single one of you can have a truly amazing day on Sunday. So we wish you each your best day, and we thank everybody. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT