NCAA MEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: SECOND ROUND - USC VS KANSAS
March 22, 2021
Marcus Garrett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
  USC 85, Kansas 51
 THE MODERATOR:   We are joined by Marcus Garrett.  Questions, please.
 Q. The three-point shooting tonight was not best for you guys.  Can you just talk about maybe why the three-point shot wasn't going down for any of you guys tonight.
 MARCUS GARRETT:   I really can't.  I really don't know why they weren't going in.  I feel like we were shooting them and we just couldn't make the shot.
 Q. You obviously have a decision to make.  What has it been like in your time in Kansas, the big picture, your four years as a Jayhawk?
 MARCUS GARRETT:   It's been incredible.  Especially Coach Self, he gave me the opportunity.  He changed my life.  I'm actually going to be the first person in my family to graduate in May.  I really appreciate what him and the coaching staff have done for me and my family over these past four years.
 The way he taught me how to be a man really.  Coming from where I come from, you really don't know a lot about being a man, things outside of basketball.  But Coach Self taught me everything.
 Q. Big picture on the season, where do you think it kind of fell short for you guys when you did struggle?  Where do you see this team going in the future even if you have moved on from it?
 MARCUS GARRETT:   I just feel like we fell short today.  We kind of picked the wrong day to not make any shots, and the other team was making everything that they shot.
 I mean, with this team next year, they got a chance to do something special.  Every year I feel like a Kansas team with Coach Self have a chance to do something special.
 Q. You guys have been so good defensively this year.  What did you feel like was maybe lacking tonight?  Seemed like especially at the end of the first half USC was able to go on a big run.
 MARCUS GARRETT:   Yeah, I think I picked up, what was that, my second foul?  I feel like they just went on a big run and stretched the lead at halftime.  Start of the second half, we felt we could never get the game back from them.  They kept hitting shots and doing everything they wanted to offensively.
 Q. What did you make of the spark that Tyon brought for you guys off the bench today?
 MARCUS GARRETT:   It was great.  That's what Tyon can do.  He can score in bunches.  Kind of that's what he does.  That's what he's known for, just scoring.  He came in the game and showed he can score quick and easy.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT