NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: LIGHTNING v PENGUINS
May 19, 2016
Steven Stamkos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Is there any update?   
STEVEN STAMKOS: No, nothing's changed.  
   
 Q. Did you have a chance to go see the doctors here? Any prognosis?   
STEVEN STAMKOS: Like I said, there's been no set doctor's date where it was -- we're going to go today and a decision is going to be made. There was nothing ever in the works for that. So can't update anything. It's still kind of that holding pattern.   
Like I said, going to continue to work hard and hope the guys keep winning here.  
   
 Q. Being the captain, do you have any message for the team after last night's game?   
STEVEN STAMKOS: We talked. Different guys voiced some opinions. Obviously, they knew that effort wasn't good enough. They don't need any of us guys watching the game to know that. They know that. So definitely expect better for next game.  
   
 Q. No updates, Steven, on your health? Are you still confident that you can be back in this playoff series?   
STEVEN STAMKOS: Like I said before, I'm hoping to, but there's still a real possibility that I may not play at all in the playoffs. It's tough when you have two different parts of the spectrum. It's either you're going to be able to play or it's just not safe to play. So we still haven't come to that decision yet. That's going to take a lot of information gathering and a lot of different opinions, and obviously, I don't know when that decision is going to be made for sure to either rule in or rule out.  
   
 Q. Steven, how do they figure that out? Do they take more tests? How do they determine whether --  
STEVEN STAMKOS: There's no -- the thing with this situation, there's no data out there to support whether, you know, obviously, coming back earlier than the initial prognosis is safe or not, if there's elevated risks or not. I mean, it's such a unique situation and obviously not a common thing, that there's really no clinical studies to suggest.   
So there's risk management. You have to just, like I said, do your best to gather as many opinions, gather as much information as possible so you're well educated on the risks if you do come back, realizing that it's not worth the risk. So we haven't reached that stage yet.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT