MOTEL 6 CACTUS BOWL: BAYLOR VS BOISE STATE
December 26, 2016
Aiavion Edwards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
AIAVION EDWARDS: It's just focusing on now, and what's happening in the future.   
 Q.  Have you ever played a football game on a baseball field before?  
AIAVION EDWARDS: No, I have not.  It's going to be interesting.  I saw how they kind of restructured the field and all.  And it's pretty cool and I'm excited to play on it.  I've never done it before.   
 Q.  What stands out to you about Boise State's offense?  
AIAVION EDWARDS: They're a good, physical offense.  A lot of personnel groups.  They do a lot and it's something we've got to really focus in on.  And being able to defend all that they do.  It's going to be a challenge, but I think we're prepared for it.   
 Q.  The running back McNichols, number 13, announced an hour ago he's declaring for the draft.  What have you seen out of him, and do you expect his final game, he'll be fired up?  
AIAVION EDWARDS: For sure he'll be fired up.  He's a really good back, watched a lot of film on him.  He does a great job.  Fast guy, physical.  He knows how to get up field and get yards and make some huge plays.  Something we have to limit for sure, but he's a good back and he will make some plays.   
 Q.  How does their offense compare whether scheme, personnel, to the offenses you see in the Big 12?  
AIAVION EDWARDS: Not too much.  Not too many of the offenses we see.  Possibly a Kansas State.  Most the Big 12 teams don't run as many heavy packages as they do.   
But I think we've prepared well and we're excited and ready to face the challenge.   
 Q.  The quarterback, number 4, what do you see out of him?  
AIAVION EDWARDS: He's a good quarterback.  He does a good job, just making plays out of whatever he's given.  So something that we have to limit as well.  They have a really good offense and we're excited for the challenge.   
 Q.  What was your first thought when you heard you were playing Boise State?  
AIAVION EDWARDS: You think about the tradition and them and the bowl games in the past.  So I thought that it's going to be exciting game.  It's always nice to play someone out of conference.  And this is a good game to end my career on.   
 Q.  Do you remember when they played Oklahoma in the Fiesta Bowl?  
AIAVION EDWARDS: I still remember watching when I was a kid.  I can't remember how old I was, but, yeah, something that I won't forget.  I remember the plays exactly.  It's going to be exciting to finish out my career playing these guy.   
 Q.  First Big 12 team they've played since then.  
AIAVION EDWARDS: I didn't know that.   
 Q.  Your being a senior, what are your emotions coming into this game?  
AIAVION EDWARDS: I'm excited.  It's kind of hard because it is my last college game.  But I'm excited to hopefully finish out on a high note.  Go out one more time with the guys that are here and the guys that I've worked with for so many years.  So that's just -- we're excited and we've prepared well.  And we're excited to accept the challenge.   
 Q.  Will this be may be the most physical team you guys will play.  I know Coach Grobe has mentioned that.  What do you think?  
AIAVION EDWARDS: I think so.  They love to run the ball.  They bring a lot of guys to do it.  They shift here and there.  And they're prepared and they do a great job running the ball.   
And that's what they've done all year and they're extremely physical and it's going to be a long, rough game.   
 Q.  You were in Arizona three years ago at the Fiesta Bowl.  Has this bowl experience been much different than that?  
AIAVION EDWARDS: Not much.  We prepare the same way.  But the bowl experience has been a little bit different but we've had a great time and a great week.  It's just been exciting, and it's exciting to know we're about time for game time.   
 Q.  Zach is obviously going to start his first bowl game.  You veteran guys, how much do you take it on yourselves to kind of help him through this?  
AIAVION EDWARDS: We try to do our best to help him and I think that he's actually very prepared for it.  He's a guy that's ready to accept the challenge as well.  We've all been working hard and he's done a great job in the games he's played and we have full confidence in him.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT