BAYLOR UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 19, 2016
Aiavion Edwards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas State - 42, Baylor - 21
AIAVION EDWARDS: Those are the things that kind of took us a second to kind of, adjust to and it took us a while to get a way to stop them.  And it kind of resulted in those long drives.  They do a great job with that, continuing to keep their guys out there, gaining yards after yards.  And I think that by the time we got there and kind of figured it out, that it was just a little, took a little too long.
Q. What was the mood like in the locker room for you guys afterward?
AIAVION EDWARDS: We were down.  It's not fun losing.  It's hard.  We're fighting hard to get back on the winning streak, but right now, nobody likes losing.  But got to put this behind us now and just kind of move on and look forward to the next game.
Q. With two games left and a bowl, what do you think it's going to take to get this season back on track for you guys?
AIAVION EDWARDS: I think we just got to keep focusing on getting better each and every week.  I think when we come back to practices next week, that we have to practice a little harder and focus on little details, rather than just trying to change everything.  So I think that's just going to be a big deal, just getting everybody on the same page and focusing in on winning.
Q. Is this scheme or -- coach talked about, there were a lot of missed tackles.  Did you feel that way?
AIAVION EDWARDS: Yes.
Q. That y'all were in position, you just didn't make plays?
AIAVION EDWARDS: Yeah, we just didn't execute.  We were right in position.  Coach Bennett and the guys did a great job, but we weren't making the plays that we needed to, we couldn't get off the field when we needed to, and they capitalized on those.
Q. How was it trying to defend Ertz, a very big quarterback with some speed?
AIAVION EDWARDS: He's a good quarterback.  He does a great job at what he's coached to do.  He knows exactly how to read and he does, he makes the right reads and he's a playmaker.
Q. You had a chance on the fourth down play, didn't wrap him up.  Is that what it came down to or is he just that strong that he was able to get away?
AIAVION EDWARDS: I just wasn't exactly where I needed to be.  It was just a mistake on my part.  It's something that shouldn't even happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT