RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2014
Michael Putnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome Michael Putnam to the media center, Michael, a bogey‑free 64 today, obviously a pretty stellar round, actually the lowest opening round of your PGA TOUR career.   Maybe tell us a little bit about what went well for you out there. 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah, I hit a lot of fairways, I hit a lot of greens.   Obviously got windy there this afternoon, and it was tough ball‑striking, but somehow I was able to keep it in the fairway and take advantage of the soft greens and hit a couple shots close and make a couple five‑ to ten‑ foot putts. 
THE MODERATOR:   This is the lowest round we've had as an opening round here at Royal Montreal in the RBC Canadian Open.   How did you handle the course out there and how was it playing for you? 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Obviously it was playing easy (laughing). 
Yeah, the course is very similar to courses I play back home in Tacoma, Washington.   Same grasses, same kind of terrain, so I feel pretty comfortable just with a lot of the tee shots, a lot of the angles you've got to take, and then the greens being half poa, half bent, some more poa, some more bent.   I've putted those greens a lot so feel pretty comfortable on them.
THE MODERATOR:   You played your way up from the Web.com TOUR last year, obviously a very successful season there.   Tell us how comfortable you've been on the PGA TOUR this year and what your season has been like. 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   It's been a decent year.   I've made a lot of cuts.   I think I've made 18 of 23 cuts or something like that.   But I haven't really had any really great finishes, so hopefully this will kick‑start the good finishes.   Obviously I like making cuts, but I like trying to win tournaments, too. 
THE MODERATOR:   The first‑round lead is a new thing for you for your career, so how do you think you'll handle the first‑round lead should it hold and head into tomorrow? 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah, well, it'll be pretty easy because I tee off at like 7:35 tomorrow morning, so I'm going to sneak in right before any media get here.   They're all going to be sleeping. 
Hopefully obviously we're looking forward to a little calmer conditions tomorrow morning, and I'm going to be done before noon.   You know, there were some good scores shot this morning.   Hopefully I can copy those good scores and post a good number.
THE MODERATOR:   How did your experience on the Web.com TOUR last year, being in contention so many times, doing things like that where you have to sleep on a lead or a low round, how did that help you for this year? 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah, it was huge.   I think I was in contention probably half the events I played last year, so I got used to doing a lot of media interviews, seeing cameras behind me while I swing, and obviously the fan attention and the media attention.   So I feel very comfortable.   Just hopefully my game is there come this weekend so I can be in the same position.
THE MODERATOR:   You said you played on Tuesday and the course was a little bit firmer than it was today.   Just talk about how the course played a little differently than when you did your practice round. 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah, on Tuesday you could really tell they were trying to dry the golf course out, and it's going to be a hard golf course this weekend if they can do that, especially if the wind keeps up how it is, because it was a lot more firm on Tuesday, and the greens kind of‑‑ they had a lot more runoffs because they were so much more firm.   Today was different because you could hit a 6‑iron that could land‑‑ the ball ended up one foot from where I landed, so it made it a little easier for us.   But I'm sure, like you said, being the lowest round shot here, the first round of a tournament, I'm sure they're going to want to make it a little more tough this weekend. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT