TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2014
Michael Putnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Left myself in some good spots on the par‑5s and had some pretty good drivable par‑4s and had four or five tap‑in birdies today.   The greens are still soft from yesterday, and I was able to take advantage of it for sure.

Q.   Two rounds so far in the 60s.   What's been clicking for you so far this week?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   You know, I've been hitting it well.   Made a couple putts today, which is nice.   Yesterday, probably hit it the same, shot 3‑under, just not getting anything to fall.   And so hopefully I can make some putts like I did today over the weekend and keep the low scores rolling.

Q.   Getting on the PGA TOUR you made a bunch of cuts this year, still searching for a Top 10.   What's your mindset going into the weekend now that you're in a good spot?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah.   I haven't really played very well for four rounds this year so far.   Obviously you gotta start with two before you get to four, so hopefully put another good round in tomorrow and get that fourth on Sunday. 

Q.   We'll see you out there this weekend. 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Thanks. 

Q.   With the clubhouse leader right now.   7‑under.   You had a solid round one, even better Round 2.   What was clicking even more for you today?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah.   I hit a lot of shots close.   You know, after bogey the first hole, I started on 10, you know, had a few tap‑in birdies and then made a couple of 10‑footers on the front nine and added up to a pretty easy 63.

Q.   Let's talk about the 15th.   That's, of course, our live‑at hole all week long.   Tee‑to‑green coverage.   Talk me through that hole and the pin placement that we're going to be seeing all day today. 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   I birdied it.

Q.   Yes, you did. 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   You know, we had it‑‑ it was like my fifth hole, and so it was still calm.   There wasn't any breeze.   Now it's a little into the wind.   So I hit 3‑wood just left of the pin, left of the green, short of the water.   Not many balls can stay there.   I got kind of lucky on that, but it was a perfect spot to get up‑and‑down from.
The guys are probably going to hit 3‑wood or driver, and I tell you what, if they miss it right, good luck getting up‑and‑down.   You have to somehow miss it left of the green and short of the water.

Q.   You've made a lot of cuts this season.   You have not finished in the Top 10 yet, but how would you assess where your game is right now, and it must feel good to say you're the clubhouse leader at the moment. 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah, no.   I've had a solid year.   Just haven't put four rounds together.   I've put two and a half rounds, two rounds together, for a lot of tournaments.   Like you said, made a lot of cuts.   Obviously looking forward to putting a good weekend together here, starting off good.

Q.   Great start.   Thank you so much for joining us.   Stretch on the TOUR as hot as you were from 11 to 17 today?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   What was I, 6‑under from 11 to 17?   Yeah, not in a while.   You know, that's a good stretch of holes to play well.   You know, there's some easy holes in there and I actually three‑putted 13 for par.   So it could have even been better.
But I hit a couple close, left myself in a good spot on 15 to chip it close, and then made a couple putts.   But yeah, that was a nice way to start the morning.

Q.   The conditions obviously about as good as they can be.   You really took advantage of that. 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah.   Perfect.   It was a little cool this morning.   We didn't have any wind, and the greens were still soft from yesterday's rain.   You know, I assume they'll probably dry out this afternoon and coming into the weekend they're going to get pretty firm and fast.   So you know, right now they're still a little slow, and definitely people are taking advantage of it.

Q.   You made a few putts when you had to, but for the most part you left yourself a lot of tap‑ins, too; right?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah.   Ton of tap‑ins.   I mean I think I had a 10‑footer on 11, three‑footer on 12.   Like I said, I three‑putted 13, 3‑footer on 14, 2‑footer on 15.   What did I make on 17.   Yeah.   2‑footer on 17.   So yeah, I mean I hit a lot close.   Made a couple putts on the front nine to keep going farther under par, and obviously I'm going to have to do that this weekend.

Q.   When you get through a stretch like that, when you're having a stretch like that, how much of that is a mind game, you just keep the momentum going and not try to get through yourself?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah.   It's tough when you have four out of five holes where you make a birdie under three feet.   You know, you hit it to 10 feet and you're wondering what the heck.   How can I make a 10‑footer.
But like on this course, obviously you saw yesterday, Brendan shot 8‑under.   I think 2005 I shot 8‑under a round when I played here.   And so you know you can score out here and you gotta keep taking it low because other guys will.

Q.   You have some good memories here obviously the T4 I think you're talking about. 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah.   That was my first pro event.   Nine years ago now.   So I was lucky enough for them to give me my first start as a pro, and I've been back every year I've been able to, so yeah, obviously some great memories from that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT