VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 13, 2014
Michael Putnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.     That was tough out there this morning.   How cold was it before you got started?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   It was cold.   We all had layers on.   That's for sure.   I had three layers on.   I had a shirt, sweater and another sweater on.   That wind was whipping pretty hard this morning and it's still blowing right now, too.

Q.   Little disappointed maybe bogeying 16?   If you could have taken 2-under par and not gone out there, would you have done it to start the day?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   For sure.   It was tough this morning which is when I made my birdies and I kind of just made a lot of good, solid pars, lot of hit in the middle of the green today, two-putt from 30, 40 feet. 
You know, I had a few chances on the back.   Obviously bogey on the 16th from the middle of the fairway is not good.   There's other ways to bogey it.   Solid day.

Q.   When the weather got warmer, did the ball really fly that much farther?   It really wasn't warmer for the ball, was it?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Not really.   I shed one layer.   Most guys maybe shed one.   We still had two layers on.   It's not warm.   It's 50 degrees and it's a tricky wind.   It's blowing 15, 20, 25 sometimes with gusts. 
You know, it's a great golf course.   They set it up well.   They moved some tees up for us on the holes that would have got ridiculous if it was into the wind.   So, you know, it's a fair golf course.

Q.   Nice round today.
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah, it was a solid day.   Obviously it was super cold and windy this morning which is when I made my three birdies and kind of just held on from there, making a lot of good pars from 30, 40 feet.

Q.   How about the winds?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   They're tough.   I don't know if it's going to calm down.   It's supposed to calm down a little.   It's still playing tough and going to be tough this afternoon.

Q.   Just talk about your season so far, you're coming off a big year on the Web.com.   Does this round in tough conditions today do a lot for your confidence maybe getting going?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   My season has been average at best.   I'm just warming up.   I don't get going until May, June, anyway.   Last week was kind of a kick in the butt. 
I went down to play Puerto Rico.   Obviously saw all my Web.com buddies play well, Chesson winning and Danny Lee and all those guys.   Kind of fired me up for this week. 
It carried over to this first round.   Hopefully it can carryover for the next three rounds. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT