NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL INVITATIONAL
July 23, 2010
Michael Putnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MICHAEL PUTNAM: That was tough. Playing with the wind and the greens started to firm up. It was a tough round.

 Q. Talk about the difference from yesterday today?
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: Yesterday the greens were as soft as they're ever going to be. There was no wind. 
 I teed off at 7:00 a.m., so it was smooth. I made a lot more putts yesterday. It seemed like today you just couldn't get it close because of the winds.

 Q. The heat and the wind and all that other stuff, does that bother you? 
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: The heat not so much. But the wind is the worst for golfers. It just blows the ball everywhere, and it's tough conditions to play in.

 Q. It is a pretty tight-knit bunch today?
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: Well, I think there is a little more spread for me, but it's good. Guys are playing well. You know, you get 1 over, and it's going to be pretty good out here.

 Q. Three birdies and one bogey. Were there chances there? 
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: Yeah, I missed some chances in the middle of the round. I three-putted 9 for bogey. Missing a five-footer. I missed five footers on 11 and 12 for birdie. So other than that, I didn't miss or make anything I shouldn't make.

 Q. Did the wind even affect you on those putts? 
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: Yeah, it was the gusts. You get a gust, and it pushes your body. It pushes your ball a little bit. I didn't miss them because of the wind though (laughing).

 Q. What was the longest putt you had today? 
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: Probably 60 feet or so.

 Q. What happened? Did the wind catch it? 
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: No, I just misread it. Misread the putt and I two putted nine. Even when I was thinking about it, I didn't want to end with two bogies. 

 Q. You said that you're looking through your record for this year, and it looks like you have a few Top 10s and missed the cut a few other times. You were either in contention or off for the weekend it looks like. Obviously you carried that over to two totally different golf courses?
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: Yeah, two totally different golf courses. I played a little bit here in college, and I played Nationals here in '01, I guess it was. It's a really good golf course. Good ball striking, rewards good putting. 

 Q. Which have you had (indiscernible)?
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: I've had both. I putted it pretty well other than that three or four hole stretch out there. Other than that, I kept it on the greens and played safe on the par 5s.

 Q. Coming into this tournament, would this be the fourth time you've played here? 
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: Third time I've played this tournament here, yeah. 

 Q. Coming in, did you give yourself a chance? 
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: I finished sixth two years ago. So I was in contention for the lead, but I don't think I could either share it.

 Q. So you know 62 around here is a record? 
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: Yeah, that is out (Indiscernible). Hopefully, the wind can hold off and I can play like that again, because this course tests everybody's game at times.

 Q. When you went out there today, I think I mentioned this to Brendan Steele, did you have an idea the way the wind was blowing that if you had a pretty good round yesterday, you if you could just get something on par today, you'd be in good shape? 
 MICHAEL PUTNAM: Yeah, I played out here with this wind, the exact same wind before and, you know, anything under par is a good round today. 
 I was talking this morning at breakfast, and I told him man, for one, I didn't know the course record was 66. Or 6 under, 65, before yesterday. But it just seems a hard course to perform on. (Indiscernible). Anything under par is always good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT