OHL CLASSIC AT MAYAKOBA
November 14, 2014
Michael Putnam
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Very first hole of the tournament.   Bogey‑free since then, and 12‑under par?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah, I've kept the ball in play really well.   It's a tight golf course and got to keep it between the trees.   After that, I've hit a lot of greens and made a lot of two putts.   I did make about a 10‑footer for par on 16.   Probably the hardest hole on the course out here.   But other than that, it was a pretty easy bogey‑free round.

Q.   Always nice to finish with the birdie.   Tell me about your birdie on the 18th? 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   It's a hard hole today, the driver, 6‑iron into the wind and an 18‑foot putt.

Q.   You played really quickly out here.   Does that suit your pace of play? 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah, we teed off at 6:15, so I think, yeah, we played four hours in threesomes.   Everyone says the TOUR'S slow, but if you give us some room and not bottle up the course, we play pretty quick.   Today it was great.   We kept a nice pace.   Never were waiting, and it was a beautiful morning.

Q.   Gave your brother Andrew something to shoot for this afternoon?
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah, he's going to have to put a really low one in to catch me.

Q.   On the 18th, Michael, 2 better than Thursday.   How did you attack the course this morning? 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   Yeah, we teed off at 6:15 this morning, so it was pretty calm.   The wind was opposite of what it usually is just because it was so early.   So we had some holes downwind and pretty good holes to start off.   Coming in, I made a few birdies and got it to 7‑under today and shot a 64.

Q.   Since your very first shot of the tournament, your first hole you've been bogey‑free.   How have you been able to get into a nice rhythm out there? 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   I've kept it between the trees.   That's what you've got to do out here.   I hit a lot of greens.   Lot of two putts.   I think I made one 8‑footer for par today on 16, but that was the only hole I might have made bogey on.   Other than that, I made a few good birdie putts, especially the one on 18.

Q.   I know the putter hadn't quite been to where it was this week.   How have you been able to get it clicking? 
MICHAEL PUTNAM:   I've been working really hard.   Working hard with Troy Denton back home on my putting, working on my swing.   My swing's been good with Patrick Kelly.   It's all coming into place, hopefully, and hopefully I have a good weekend.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT