MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2013
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was it like last year waking up with the 54‑hole lead?
PETER HANSON:   I mean, it's special.   I can't deny that.   I'm, of course, very nervous coming up to the first tee, you know, playing with Phil.   I was lucky to play with Phil the first couple of days as well, which I think helped me to get into that position. 
And I've only been here, you know, twice before now, so I still have a bit to learn about this course.   It's always‑‑ it's a dream coming back here.

Q.   I was going to ask you, do you view last year as an opportunity lost or just kind of the next step in the process towards becoming a Masters champion? 
PETER HANSON:   I think, you know, it's a little bit of an opportunity lost, of course, every time you come in to a major with a lead, I think.   But that was the first time for me.   I actually never been up in contention before really in a major. 
I finished pretty good at Congressional when McIlroy won.   But he won by 7 or 8 or 9shots, so I never really felt I had a good chance of winning back then.   So it was a great, you know, learning experience and being out there in the last group and I would give an arm and leg to get in the same position again.

Q.   What was the biggest thing you learned being in that last group that last day? 
PETER HANSON:   You know, I think I learned a lot about myself, the way‑‑ what part of my game didn't hold up with pressure.   I felt that I got a little bit defensive with the putter.   And around these greens, even though they are quick, you still have to hit the putts.   You can't just dribble them up and give yourself a foot putt to go to tap in.   I missed quite a few good opportunities, especially in the front 9.   And even on the back 9 I gave up a few pretty good chances.

Q.   You know, you missed the cut the first year.   You were in contention last year.   How confident are you on this course now? 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I don't think you can ever be very confident.   But it was a good thing.   I didn't win today, so there's always a good thing.   You know, I'm pretty happy with my game actually. 
I came off a small injury.   I had to take three weeks off and put San Antonio on last week.   Played four rounds of pretty solid golf.   I had a bit of a slump Saturday but came back with 66 on Sunday.   So that was nice to get a really good round coming into here.   It builds a bit of confidence and I'm looking forward to‑‑

Q.   This week? 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, exactly, teeing it up tomorrow.

Q.   What was the nature of this injury? 
PETER HANSON:   Back and neck injury, so that forced me to pull out of Bay Hill and Houston that I normally play.   I had to reshuffle a little bit.

Q.   Rehab a little bit? 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, rehab every year.   It's still there every day, so just keeping it under control.   And the only thing that happened is that it kind of set me back a little in my practice and preparation for this week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT