WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2013
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You're laughing about it, but tell us about not being able to play yesterday. 
PETER HANSON:   It was probably 50/50, but it was just nice to get that extra day of rest and got a lot of treatment and a lot of exercise done yesterday.   I actually changed beds, almost slept on the floor to keep it really‑‑ to get it a bit stiffer, a bit harder, to keep it in place.

Q.   Did you sleep on the floor?
PETER HANSON:   No, I put one of these wood boards underneath the mattresses and took the top mattress off, so it made it really firm.   I think that helped a little bit.   Still a bit stiff in this cold weather, didn't start great. 
Thomas played pretty steady, and I went down early on, 2‑down after 9, and then played actually very nice on the back nine and managed to pick up quite a few birdies.

Q.   I suppose it's a testament to your approach to the game, you don't get too down, you just have to keep it steady?
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I think that kind of helps when you have something else to think about, and I was just trying to focus on putting good swings on the ball and not getting too much pain in the lower back.   I think that kind of helps a bit.

Q.   Is it sort of an element of protecting it with the swing?
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I kind of squat down a little bit at impact because I get a little bit of impingement when I make the turn, and even though I try to tell the brain, it's not a problem.   But the signal is there and it just makes the body protect it a bit, so it's a bit stiff and it's a bit blocked up.   Hopefully I'll get a bit more treatment now and try and get it one step better tomorrow.

Q.   Is there an exact problem?
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I've got an old injury, a bulging disk.   You've probably heard about it before.   It normally flares up, I would say, maybe two or three times a year.   It's quite often when I've done it that I'm traveling and whatever bed I might have been sleeping in or whatever exercise I've done in the gym.   We're just trying to figure out exactly what makes it flare up, but I think the margin from the disk to the nerve is very, very small, so that's why I get it a few times a year.   And luckily it hasn't been too often over the last couple years.

Q.   Tomorrow you have Mr.Simpson. 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, we played Bubba and Webb in the Ryder Cup and got absolutely‑‑ I don't know what a good word would be, but we got stiffed.   It hopefully would be nice to get some revenge tomorrow.   He's a great guy.   We're very good friends, so it's going to be a good match, I hope.

Q.   Sleeping on the floor tonight?
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I'll do the same thing, I'll put my big wooden plank and try to make it as hard as I can.   I'll probably sleep here on the paving stones. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT