WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 1, 2012
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Did you have a good celebration Sunday night? 
    PETER HANSON:   Yeah, it was a good celebration.   Went out with a few friends that live in Shanghai, and some nice Spanish food, tapas.   Wasn't really my favourite dishes, I needed something a bit heavier; but a few drinks and it was just great. 
    Just great to be out with ten guys and I took it very easy Monday, stayed up in Shanghai, slept in and came down here Monday night and tried to get ready for this week.

Q.   How do you actually get back on an even keel after winning so well in great style a big championship like last week? 
    PETER HANSON:   I mean, it's just hard.   You obviously know that you're playing well but you stay fresh and feel fresh, and I thought I did that. 
    I took it pretty easy yesterday after the Pro‑Am, only a couple of hours of practise up on the range and on the putting greens.   It's all about keeping the head in the right mind‑set and keep grinding it out and keep playing aggressive. 
    So of course, delighted with the start, 66 today, and hopefully build it up tomorrow.

Q.   So not too much hitting of golf balls and practising, just remaining fresh, that's the key?
    PETER HANSON:   I think so.   I've been on the road now for three or four weeks.   Just need to keep your head fresh and this is a very demanding golf course; you can make some easy mistakes around here, but if you play well, a little bit like Bubba said, the greens were rolling very true so you can make a ton of putts.

Q.   When you won on Sunday in Shanghai, you suggested you would add Singapore to your schedule? 
    PETER HANSON:   I haven't really.   I spoke to George O'Grady about it, and I kind of told him that I'm going to wait till the end of this week and I'm going to focus on this week, and hopefully if I can be up there Sunday, we'll see how big of a gap it is.   I've been on the road, I played India before last week and I've been on the road for a while, so just have to wait and see.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT