BMW MASTERS
October 26, 2012
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  STEVE TODD:   Thanks for joining us.   Well played today.   64, it's quite impressive, especially after a slow start there.  
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, it's amazing how many good rounds come together after a bogey on the first.   But really, I mean, I started with bogey and then got it straight back with a birdie on 3.   
Then I think that's pretty much been the key to my two good rounds.   I birdied all the par 5s, which of course are going to help you tremendously around this place.   Yeah, you know, a pretty solid round of golf, some short birdie putts with 3‑ or 4‑footers, and made some long ones, too.   
STEVE TODD:   Seems like a few times this year, you've been in the lead and seems like it's a position you're becoming increasingly more comfortable with.  
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I think so.   I think the more times you end up in that position, you might feel more and more comfortable.   Of course, the biggest change, the biggest difference this year compared to my previous career has been I've played better in the bigger events like the majors and World Golf Championships.   
I think that helped my confidence a lot, as well, and you know, just being part of The Ryder Cup Team and all of these things, you feel that maybe you belong a little bit more towards the top of the World Ranking and playing against the absolute best players in the world.   
   
 Q.   Reading the aftermath of The Ryder Cup, it sounds like it was bittersweet for you, and having limited opportunity, and mentioning before that your confidence took a bit of a hit there.   Do you think you've made a big statement today after that sort of situation?  
PETER HANSON:   I don't think so.   I know exactly which one you're talking about.   And I think you can understand, I was on a very big high coming off The Ryder Cup like we all were.   
And standing behind the green at Carnoustie I think it was, I was asked a question, if I was disappointed not to play on Saturday in The Ryder Cup; and I was probably answering a little bit too honest that I was a bit disappointed not to get out there and play.   
But that interview was very, very positive, all the way.     There was no hard feelings whatsoever, and it was just taken out of context what happened.   It's always hard.   You know, when I read that, I got really disappointed because it was such a great week and we all enjoyed it so much; coming off that great Sunday and being part of such a great team.   
I tried to be a bit funny there with Ollie's Christmas card, and it kind of backfired on me.   But I mean, we all know this business, and just get on with it.   But there's no way of trying to get redemption of not playing Ryder Cup.   We are all out here trying to do our best and win tournaments and play golf.   
   
 Q.   What's the big goals left for the remainder of the season?   
PETER HANSON:   That's a very, very good question, because I think that's one of the things I've been fighting really hard with after Ryder Cup; to get motivation back, because it is hard after such a big week and you prepare for so long and try to qualify.   
I really said these last four events, checks check this one, next week, and I'm playing Dubai, the final and Nedbank, so I've set some high goals and I want to finish strongly this year; just to get that motivation and get back to business and try to finish off really well.   If I can get away with a big win one of these four weeks, I would be very, very happy taking a break for Christmas.   
   
 Q.   How is your son getting on?   
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, thank you, a lot better.   He's back to 100 percent.  
   
 Q.   We were up at Carnoustie when we spoke to you, and we appreciated that remark about the Christmas card was tongue‑in‑cheek; have you spoken to Ollie?  
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I spoke to Ollie this week.   It's very easy, because everyone that's on that team, we all know how good it is.   It's great to see all the boys this week, and there's nothing that is written or that is written will ever hurt any one of us.   We are such a strong team and especially coming off such a dramatic win, it's bonded us and it's a very, very strong feeling.   
Obviously we talked about it, what was written after that interview there, and I kind of‑‑ you know, you still go up and say I'm sorry for what happened, blah, blah, blah, said something that was written in the wrong way.   But just part of the business.   
   
 Q.   Are you surprised that you and Rory have put so much sort of daylight between you and the rest of the field?   
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, maybe a little bit.   I was just trying to focus on my golf today, so I didn't really look at the scores, and I think he was probably doing the same thing.   So I mean, we saw some really low scores.   Robert Karlsson shot 8‑under today and I think Shane Lowry shot 8‑under.   
The golf course is so good.   It's fairly wide off the fairways.   The greens are rolling pretty good.   It's pretty soft so you can see yourself shooting some low scores here.   We've seen 60 and we've seen some 64s.   But yeah, what are we, three or four ahead?   14, 12 and then 9, so yeah, I'm happy with the way I played so far and I know it's going to be a tough one coming up against the world No. 1 these last couple of days on a golf course he obviously loves.   He won here last year.   
You can see the advantage of people that can move the ball.   I've been driving the ball well, and we all know that Rory definitely can move it a long way.   I saw where he was on that par 5 there towards the end on the 13th hole; he was probably a good 30, 40 yards ahead of anyone else in the field.   So it's going to be a big advantage.   
   
 Q.   Are you planning to spend more of your time next year on the US PGA Tour or are you going to go back and forth?   
PETER HANSON:   I'm going to play, like I said, the last four events of my calendar year are part of The European Tour‑‑ well, last three.   I'll play Nedbank.   And then for next year, I'm probably going to start up down in South Africa again with Volvo Golf Champions, and then of course Middle East.   
   
 Q.   So you will go back and forth, carry both cards?  
PETER HANSON:   Yes.   
   
 Q.   You're not going to feel a lot of traveling going back and forth will be too much for you?   
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I mean, it is a lot of traveling, but I mean, it's still worth it.   I really enjoy playing on The European Tour, and we're spending more and more time in America and got a base now in America and I will play more on the US PGA Tour, as well.   As long as you are still inside the Top‑50 in the world, it is possible to play both tours.   If you are not in that position, it's going to be a bit harder.   
   
 Q.   How do you prepare for a tournament, something like this week, because there's no cut line; do you look at it differently, or do you just prepare the same way?  
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I mean, I try to prepare the same way.   Still come into the tournament with the mind‑set of putting yourself into contention coming into the weekend.   Not too different in the way if you play more aggressive or you play more defensive, it's very similar to me.   
STEVE TODD:   Thanks for joining us, Peter.   Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT