THE RYDER CUP
September 28, 2012
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Sometimes you just come up against a twosome that's playing spectacular golf as Bubba and Webb were. 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, the train left on the front nine.   I think we were 9‑under for the first 10 holes.   Me and Paul, we didn't play good enough to jump on that train.   6‑down after 10, that was kind of hard.

Q.   And the start of the match in particular, they got off to a fast start. 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I mean, when someone is 9‑under through 10, you're going to battle to win that match.   But the way it turned out, we made it a little bit too easy for them, I guess.   Paul made a good comeback there with a couple of birdies, but I mean, not good enough to put any kind of pressure on them.

Q.   Do you think it was important, and was it always the plan from the team to get everyone out playing on the first day?
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, definitely.   I think it's good come Sunday when everybody has been out here.   I feel that we've played some decent golf.   I was spraying it a little bit off the tee, but the rest of the game was in pretty good shape.   But when you get a start like that, when someone plays that good and puts that much pressure on you, it's tough to go for everything, like that bunker shot, you know you have to make it. 

Q.   Talk about the start today. 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I mean, I think we ran into a bit of a wall.   They were 9‑under through the first 10 holes, and we just couldn't jump on the train.   That birdie train left, and we were 6 down after 10.   It's hard to get back.

Q.   Was there anything you could have done as the match went on?
PETER HANSON:   We missed a couple crucial putts early on.   I missed a good birdie chance on the 1st and then we didn't manage to save par.   Paul three‑putted on 2, and I missed a good chance from five, six feet.   You need to be in these games early on, and when you let them run away like we did today, the way they played, as well, we have to take our hats off.   But like I said, when you're 9‑under par after 10, it's really hard to give them a good match. 

Q.   It was pretty quiet from the Europeans' perspective, a lot of red on that board this afternoon. 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I think we were sent out first to try to send a bit of blue up on that board, and we didn't do a very good job, so maybe that affected the other guys, and hopefully maybe we can turn one of the other games around, and I'm going to rush back and see how the other boys are doing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT