PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2012
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Pretty good start?
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I'm playing better, and actually the first time in a long time felt it could be a lower score than I actually posted.   If I can keep that up for the next three days, I'll be very happy. 

Q.   Sense of relief? 
PETER HANSON:   A little bit.   Things have been starting to come together, but even last week, I felt that I was playing kind of decent.   I still finished towards the end of the field.   Not a huge confidence boost, but nice to get off to a good start here. 

Q.   Pretty good conditions? 
PETER HANSON:   Perfect conditions on the front nine, no wind.   Then I got a great start on the back nine, which was the first three or four holes, just nice to get in. 
I felt very steady.   I was hitting good off the tee.   Controlling the iron shots, and shaping both ways‑‑ it was actually, you know, one of those rounds that could have been a little bit lower.   I've been putting quite good lately even though I've been struggling, even with my long game.   Especially off the tee, I've been finding it hard to try and now I can shape it better both ways, which you need around here, especially if we get wind. 
I know the way I can play and it can get frustrating when you've been hovering around trying to make cuts, and in The Open, finishing 25th, and I felt that I got quite a lot out of it.   So it would be nice to get back to where I know I can be and with a chance to finish high up the leaderboard and be able to compete. 

Q.   How much extra thoughts do you have on a major these days? 
PETER HANSON:   It is quite a big‑‑ both the majors and the World Golf Championships events, especially the majors, it brings out a little bit more focus and motivation.   And on the other hand, if you come into these weeks and you're not playing well, it kind of goes the opposite.   You come in and you know you're in control of your game and feeling good about it‑‑

Q.   You seem to be getting better at sort of channeling the excitement?
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I think so.   Especially the preparation is getting better and better‑‑ (Inaudible.) These weeks you need to be 100 percent.   And all of the work I've put in the last four or five weeks, hopefully it's starting to pay off.   Still a long way to go. 
On Tuesday morning, we managed to get 18 holes, took eight and a half hours.   One of the few guys‑‑ playing nine holes yesterday, so haven't been able to practice as much as I would have liked to, but still most players do the work on the golf course, and quite a few shots‑‑ still feeling pretty well prepared. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
PETER HANSON:   Depends what the schedule is.   I see two big weeks after that, the World Golf Championships last week‑‑ (Inaudible.) I think it's helped me quite a bit this year when I have played the week before the majors compared to years that I haven't played.   I think I'm going to do that quite a bit next year as well, try to play the week before and fine tune and have everything in place when you tee up that week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT