MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2012
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You started this tournament playing with Phil.   Talk about what you'll be expecting if you're playing with him tomorrow. 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I think it's going to be a very challenging day tomorrow if I have the lead when we come in, everybody is done.   It's going to be a long night and a long morning tomorrow.   But if I end up playing with Phil, I think it's going to be great.   We've played a lot of golf together, and it's just great to play in front of big crowds like it is here, and with all the support being behind him, hopefully it can feed off a little bit towards me, as well.

Q.   What will you have to manage tomorrow? 
PETER HANSON:   Emotions, of course.   That's going to be the biggest thing.   This is kind of a new situation to me, being in the spotlight like this, and playing the last group.   So it's going to be about controlling my emotions and trying to be in the present and trying to play the same kind of golf that I've been doing today.

Q.   What has most prepared for tomorrow?
PETER HANSON:   I think it's just the long run, all the work that we put into this and all the practice and preparation.   But I think you have to get into this kind of environment to actually know how you're going to handle it, and I think that's going to be a big, big test for me tomorrow. 

Q.   You've been playing so great this year.   How is that going to translate to tomorrow?
PETER HANSON:   I think it will help me a lot.   Actually getting on the Ryder Cup team a couple of years back, that was probably the first time I got on the back stage.   And playing well early this year in the Middle East and then World Golf Championships, it's kind of stepped it up to a new level and I'm feeling a little bit more comfortable playing here in front of big crowds, and hopefully that can help me tomorrow. 

Q.   We were talking the other day about the fact that you moved to Florida, got a lot more practice time.   Do you feel maybe there was some untapped potential that you were able to tap into?
PETER HANSON:   I think so.   I love the countryside, and the way I've been brought up back in Sweden, I've always enjoyed the fall and the winter with all the hunting and fishing and stuff like that, but I also kind of feel now that it was too much of that, and being over here, we're pretty much walking out every day 30 yards from my house, I've got a perfect putting green, the range in front and the balls are out there, so the people down at Lake Nona, they do a great job, and I think it really helped my career to where it is now.

Q.   What's the most important thing you have to do tomorrow?
PETER HANSON:   Actually control my emotions, like I said before.   I think that's going to be the key thing, and trying to stay as calm as I can.   It's hard to enjoy the moment, but I'm actually going to try to enjoy it.   If I end up may go with Phil, walking down these fairways would be amazing. 

Q.   Would you rather play with the lead or pursue? 
PETER HANSON:   I don't think it matters too much in the situation we're in, with Phil being on the leaderboard, as well.   I think if it would have been someone else, it might be harder to sleep on a lead.   I know a one‑shot lead over Mickelson is pretty much nothing.   I don't think it matters too much.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT