WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2012
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Really rock solid out there for you?  
PETER HANSON:   I wasn't really that solid.   I started off missing quite a lot of fairways and around this track, when you're in that bermudarough, you start to get close to the pin and that's pretty much what I did for the front nine.   I think I found my first fairway on the 12th hole today and so from there in, it was better.   
   
 Q.   It appeared that you started to roll it and play with a lot of confidence, realizing as you probably peaked at the scoreboard, I'm right in the middle of this fight here.   
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, Bubba is kind of running away a little bit.   He played really good golf, so I guess it's up a little bit to him tomorrow, see what he does.   And for the rest of us a little bit further behind, it is going to be about going out and trying to shoot a low score tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Be honest with us; on 18, you take your drive into the left rough and hit the second shot in the bunker right.   You have not parred the hole all week.   You're standing in that bunker, take us through that thought process with, all that water beyond that pin?  
PETER HANSON:   It was kind of one of those, Stevie got up and he said, that's a good four, and I said, yeah, that's probably a bit too much to ask for a three.   I tugged my tee shot a little bit left and just managed to carry over the corner of the water.   Not a great lie but decided to have a go at it.   Like you said, when you stand off that bunker, a little bit off the downslope and to have that bunker shot, it's quite scary.   You have to hit it perfect, and this time I managed to do that.  
   
 Q.   Just an inch or two from holing that shot out of the bunker on 18.   Tell us about the attack plan for Sunday in the final round here at Doral.   
PETER HANSON:   I think that I have to drive the ball better tomorrow.   I have to find more fairways and give myself a little bit more chances.   
I think 3‑under today was a good score for me, because like I said, if you find the fairways here, you can be very aggressive into some of these pins but if you're in that rough, you're happy to get it within 25 to 30 feet.   So find fairways, get aggressive and try to make a bunch of putts.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT