WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2012
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Give us your thoughts.   Was it disappointing to lose as it always is?
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, very disappointing.   And I think especially disappointed with the way I played today.   I gave away too many holes.
It got off to a bad start.   I wasn't striking the ball very good at all.   And I was hitting it really good the first three days.   I got out of rhythm a bit.   I hit a few balls in the desert around 10, 11 and gave away two holes.   I think that really gave away the match.

Q.   You lost the first and you battled back.   And that was the turning point almost, wasn't it, to lose those couple of holes in a row just on the back nine.   It makes it very difficult?
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, it was.   And especially when I was struggling with my game.   I made some great up‑and‑downs in the beginning, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 7.   I was struggling hitting the ball and struggling finding fairways and struggling finding greens.   I managed to hang in there with a really, really good short game.   But in the end when I started spraying it even more and into the cacti and all that then all of a sudden you're making bogeys and doubles and giving away holes. 

Q.   It's a funny thing, isn't it?   People find it amazing to think that you play so well and it's not bad, but it's funny how you can't keep it going?
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I think that's what I'm very disappointed in, as well.   I couldn't find the feel in what I was doing wrong.   I've been playing with the same swing thought this week, trying to get behind it and I think a little bit trapped.   And I think, to be honest, that I might have overdone it a bit and got too far behind it.   I was kind of trapped in my right foot.   Actually the last drive, coming up the 15th hole there, I tried to be a bit more aggressive and go more forward, and the way I played in the morning when I was struggling, as well.   It's finding that rhythm and finding that balance in the swing.

Q.   The last day in the World Golf Championship, you must be pleased looking at the whole week?
PETER HANSON:   I think so.   Picking up some World Ranking points and important Ryder Cup points.   I love this format.   Playing match play is fantastic.   Always when you walk off you're going to be disappointed.   When you get so close to being here Sunday.   Come Sunday, when you've got 36 holes coming up and playing for the trophy, that would be the next challenge.

Q.   You said how much you enjoy match play.   We all saw what you did to get into the Ryder Cup at Celtic Manor.   It was fantastic last run to get in it.   Is that on the horizon for you again?
PETER HANSON:   Yeah.   That's by far my biggest goal this year to make that team again.   And to play 1‑over in Europe and to play 1‑over here would be amazing when you look back at your career.

Q.   Your Ryder Cup captain is playing down in Mexico.   Do you hope he's been tuning in. 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I know he's following us very closely and seeing what we're doing over here.   And of course my performance this week has been good and I'm very happy with that but I also know I need to pick up a lot of points.   I'm going to play over here now, but I'm also going to try to squeeze in one or two tournaments in Asia or Malaysia or China to try to pick up a few points there.   I'm going to do my best to make that team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT