WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2012
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You've had impressive start to each of your matches.   You've never behind at all.   What's the secret to the fast start?   
PETER HANSON:   I've been trying to be fast out of the gate.   I heard Lee Westwood during the press conference, in fact, and he said he's been a little bit slow coming out of the gate here his previous years here.   I kind of had a thought about that.   I'm really going to be on my tip toes coming off this first tee.   Today was 4‑under after six holes, so it worked out good for me so far.  
   
 Q.   4‑up after 7, and then he birdies 8, 9, and 10.   What is going through Peter Hanson's mind?  
PETER HANSON:   You know, you try not to panic.   I was standing over 11th tee and hit a really good tee ball down there.   I'm still 1‑up.   Trying to make birdie here and then you've got 12 and 13; 12 is a good birdie chance.   I managed to make birdie on 11 to get one back.   I made a very, very important putt on hole No. 12.   I hit a good shot off the tee but off the back of green, chipped it to seven or eight feet and managed to make that putt which was key for this match.  
   
 Q.   Did you come into this championship believing you can win it?  
PETER HANSON:   Absolutely.   I mean, I love match play.   I think it's the best format ever.   You only have to play one guy at a time.   Here is so much fun and I think my attitude has been very good this week and I have been hitting this ball, like I said, very well.  
   
 Q.   This is turning into a wonderful week for you, isn't it?  
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I mean, this is great.   Coming into this event, I've been to the first round before and never made it to the weekend, so I'm very excited about that.  
   
 Q.   What's been the secret to it?   I think you picked up a tip from Lee Westwood, wasn't it?  
PETER HANSON:   I think it was a little bit.   I listened to his press conference, it was probably Tuesday or Monday and he said he's been struggling a little bit here.   I've lost first round the last two years here.   He said that he was feeling like a little bit of a slow starter.   I kind of thought about it myself and I think we play a similar kind of game.   We kind of easy into golf tournaments and try to be around on the weekend and be up for when it matters Sunday afternoon.   This is a bit more of a sprint.   You have to be on your toes coming out of the gate here.   I've been able to do that.   I've been kind of gearing myself up the evening before thinking about winning games.   Before you get out here, you have got to put a bit of high music on and put the volume up.   
   
 Q.   That's fascinating really, because you wouldn't do that ordinarily, would you?   
PETER HANSON:   No, definitely.   My personality I'm a pretty calm guy, taking it a bit easy.   I'm going to keep on doing the same thing and try to gear myself up and really be hungry to go out there already when you start on the first hole.  
   
 Q.   What sort of music?  
PETER HANSON:   Anything I can find on the radio.   They have got this satellite radio here, so you can always find something.  
   
 Q.   You've come out the gates like an Olympic sprinter really.   You've not been behind all week and presumably the objective now is to keep that momentum into the weekend?  
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, definitely.   I have got to come out here and be hungry, like I said.   You need a little bit of a killer instinct, I think, when you come out of the gate.   I have managed to do that very well.   I'm very happy with the way I especially drive the ball.   I have been hitting it straight down the middle here most often.   It's a key advantage here.   You come here and all of a sudden this long golf course turns into a short golf course.   It's been good.  
   
 Q.   One other thought.   The amount of points and money that's available this week can really lay a bedrock, if you like, for the rest of the season.   Do you sense that?  
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I want to try to pick up as much as I can.   You don't really think about it when you play, of course.   By the end of the week, if you make all the way to Sunday afternoon and playing that last match, you know you had a really, really good week.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT