COMMERCIALBANK QATAR MASTERS PRESENTED BY DOLPHIN ENERGY
February 5, 2012
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  PETER HANSON:   Pretty happy, 67.   I mean Paul just played too good today.   I mean to go out in the lead and to shoot 65 like he did, it's hard to beat that.   So pretty happy.   It's nice to finish with the finish I had, eagle 16, birdie 18 to get that second.   So not much you could do about Paul today.  
   
 Q.   And it looked like you were just hanging in there through that front nine and just trying to make something happen?  
PETER HANSON:   Yeah.   Definitely.   I was playing solid, hitting almost every green and giving myself chances, but instead of being 15 feet, they were more like 25 feet, and we were just shaving the edges of four or five on the front nine.   And you just need a few of those to drop if you're going to be able to catch someone like Paul today.  
Unfortunately that didn't happen, and then made a mistake on 13.   I just lost concentration and managed to get back from there.  
   
 Q.   It's a big step up from last week, isn't it?  
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, definitely.   A little bit of revenge, but it's always good fun playing those last groups, and being in the leading groups now both in Abu Dhabi and here, of course it's great fun, and really can't way to tee it up next week.  
   
 Q.   Even last year you were making a habit of this.   So it will happen.   You know that, don't you?  
PETER HANSON:   Hopefully.   I feel it.   Like I said early on in the week, I was spraying it a little bit off the tee, and I have to say it got better and better over the week, so if I can keep building on this and keep working on my game, hopefully the form should be there even next week.  
   
 Q.   You touched on this, but give me an impression of just how well Paul has played.   
PETER HANSON:   No, he played fantastic.   I mean hardly missed a shot, and holed out when he should, and making all those clutch putts, and chipped in a couple of times.   It was just, like I said, to go out in the lead, leading by one and go out here on this golf course and shoot 65 is an unbelievable achievement.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT