PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2011
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 64, how golf a round was that today?  
 PETER HANSON: Oh, it was very nice. Saturday, moving day, and to shoot 64 today and get straight back into the tournament feels great.  
  
  Q. When the wind was up, did you think 64 was on the cards?  
 PETER HANSON: I didn't really think 64, but I got to have a really good start, took advantage of those two par 5s on the front nine where I managed to make a couple more putts. And I managed to take that bit of momentum to the back nine, as well, and get a few more birdies.  
  
  Q. Couple of Top-10s the last two weeks, things are getting better. What's been the key to that?  
 PETER HANSON: I've been struggling a bit with pretty much every part of my game. Normally I'm pretty happy with my swing but this summer has not been as consistent as I'm maybe getting used to. So working hard on that for the last few weeks. And like you said, when you can get a few Top-10s the last few weeks, Dunhill links was good for me to finish good and sneak in a Top-10 and build on that and go into the last week.  
  
  Q. What goals did you set for yourself between now and the end of the year?  
 PETER HANSON: There's quite a few things up for grabs. I'm outside of the Top 15 on The Race to Dubai list and I would love so much to get into that. I've been just outside for the last three years. So it would be nice to sneak in there and maybe get into the Top-10 of that.   
 And I'm around the Top-50 players in the world; so it would be nice to move a little bit further up, as well.   
  
  Q. Tell me about your game.   
 PETER HANSON: Of course, really good round today. Managed to get off to a fast start and birdie four of the last five holes and picked up one more shot and managed to make a few more birdies on the way in. Feel good going into Sunday's round.  
  
  Q. 16-under, you are playing well in Portugal?  
 PETER HANSON: I like this course. I've come pretty close a few times, finishing third and fourth, and hopefully try to do it a little bit better. Of course giving myself a chance to be in it when it comes down tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You've won many titles on The European Tour and you are a Ryder Cup winner, can we consider you as a favourite to win tomorrow?  
 PETER HANSON: I don't think so. You have so many good players in the top of the leader board, and this course, you need to make a lot of birdies and putt very well, so I think it's going to be very open.   
 But of course, I'm hoping that the leaders now are not going to run away too much, so I think even if they get to 17-, 18-under, still in with a good chance, I can get a really good start tomorrow.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT