THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 7, 2011
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PETER HANSON: That was good. Obviously good group to play in, playing with home crowd favourite, Colin Montgomerie and world No. 1 Luke Donald, you can't ask for a better draw than that. I knew it was going to be a nice day, pretty happy about my game as well. I kept the ball in play and took good advantage of the par 5s.   
  
  Q. Well, you played up to the atmosphere and you did have a whole raft of birdies?  
 PETER HANSON: Yeah, it was nice. I feel that my form is pretty good. I had a couple of good weeks, a little bit disappointing last week with one of my favourite courses on The European Tour, and managed to make a quadruple bogey there on 13 and miss the cut. So always a bit disappointing.   
 But I tried to erase that and been working a bit on the game Sunday, Monday. Got a bit of time off on the weekend so did a bit of extra work back in Sweden and just trying to build a bit of form for next week and so far, it feels very good.  
  
  Q. You obviously felt that work was needed.   
 PETER HANSON: Yeah, you always want fine tune coming into a major. There's always things to work on. So it's easy to spend a lot of hours on the range and on the putting green.  
  
  Q. Where does the balance lie, because clearly with an Open right on the horizon, you're looking forward to that and trying to just gauge the form ahead of it, but this is a big event in itself?  
 PETER HANSON: It is. This is a massive event and Barclays put on a great event every year for us, and I think especially for me now playing on a links course, the week before the open, I really enjoy that and getting used to the turf. The greens are a bit different on links, as well, so takes awhile to get used to it.   
 I think this is a great build up for The Open and of course this is a great event, so you want to be in contention come Sunday here, and hopefully have a good chance at winning this, because we all know, if you have a bit of form coming into next week, it's so much easier to build on that and hopefully have a good week next week.  
  
  Q. Positive move to move from Loch Lomond to Castle Stuart?  
 PETER HANSON: Yes, I have to say so. I like Loch Lomond as well, but I like this better. I like playing links golf the week before. Hopefully it's going to help my game getting really sharp for next week and I just really enjoying playing links.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT