VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 30, 2011
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You've been playing very solidly all four rounds, actually today maybe got a little more difficult with the wind on the back nine. Tell us, how was your round today?  
 PETER HANSON: I felt okay, but like you said, the wind made the course play a little bit more difficult, and especially the back nine, it's hard to get really close to the pins.   
 I'm pretty happy about my game, but Paul came out just a bit better today.   
  
  Q. Was it a little bit of a match-play situation with Paul?  
 PETER HANSON: Yeah, definitely was. We gave each other a little bit back and forth. I made birdie on 12 and then we both made birdie on 13. And then I made bogey on 14, he birdied 15 and he gave one back on 16. So we were kind of going backwards and forwards.   
 I was a bit upset with the lie on the last, one really bad lie in the rough there off the tee and then into the bunker and someone didn't rake the bunker. So it was sitting in a footprint. Otherwise, it was quite a straightforward bunker shot.   
  
  Q. Fantastic bunker shot and just missed the putt.   
 PETER HANSON: Yeah, from that lie, there's not much I can do. It's almost like a plugged ball and just hack it on the green and try to make the putt. But luckily Paul made a great up-and-down, so all best for him.   
  
Tough day when you catch a couple of bad breaks. The last hole, I just caught a really bad lie in the rough and hit a great shot to get it out of the water and into the trap and came into the trap and wasn't great. What can you do? Just one of those days.   
  
  Q. Well, you called the referee across over initially earlier on with the raking.   
 PETER HANSON: Yeah, the raking, and overall, you play the ball the way it is. In the bunker, it's just down to my fellow players to make sure the caddie rakes the bunkers a little bit better.  
  
  Q. And the putt on the last?  
 PETER HANSON: I knew that I had to make the putt, and it was a tough putt downhill, but really, it's a straightforward bunker shot, perfectly makeable from a good lie. So that's very, very disappointing.   
  
  Q. I take it you enjoyed the tussle with Paul Casey on the final day.   
 PETER HANSON: Yes, you always dream of being in contention and about trying to win these events and when you come off five minutes after, of course you're going to be disappointed.  
  
  Q. If this were two days after, presumably you'll reflect on things, the strong start to the season?  
 PETER HANSON: Yes, you're always happy though know the game is there and I'm really happy with the way I played myself around the course, because it has not been easy today with the wind picking up. I probably played some nice golf in the back nine. But Paul, this time he was just a little bit better.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT