VOLVO GOLF CHAMPIONS
January 29, 2011
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. First thing's first, when I met you on Tuesday, you were feeling awful. Are you completely recovered now?  
 PETER HANSON: Almost I would say. Still have a little bit of cough left but no fevers, feeling better day by day.   
  
  Q. What has pleased you most about your play over these last three days?  
 PETER HANSON: I have to say I'm very happy with the way I fought myself around this course, and my putting, I've been putting very steady and made some really good putts today during the turn there, so I'm really feeling good standing over a putter.   
  
  Q. I know you were feeling particularly confident coming into this Middle East swing about your game. Why was that?  
 PETER HANSON: I had a good stretch in the match. Royal Trophy where we played two weeks before Abu Dhabi, and played a couple of really nice rounds there and beat Liang 6&5 in the singles. Feeling happy about my game and had high expectations coming into last week but unfortunately picked up that bit of flu.  
  
  Q. Sorry, thoughts on the final day, quality players up there?  
 PETER HANSON: Definitely, it's going to be a tough day tomorrow. Paul Casey is up there, Darren Clarke, James Kingston won striking range as well. It's all about going out there tomorrow and trying to make as many birdies as I can.   
  
  Q. Another solid round. Tell us about your game today.   
 PETER HANSON: A bit of a dodgy start, 3-putt on the first is never fun. But I was lucky enough to get back into the game and made a great birdie on 4, the tough hole, really tough hole. Hit a 4-iron to three feet and that really kick-started my round, and made some more birdies and an eagle on 9.   
 Like you said it was a really solid round of golf.   
  
  Q. Looking at the leaderboard, it's very tight up there, what are you expecting for tomorrow?  
 PETER HANSON: Expecting a tough day tomorrow. But we always have been in contention coming into the last day, that's the thing, and especially when you have got players like Paul Casey and Darren Clarke, it's going to be a fun day tomorrow and go out there and see what I can do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT