JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 24, 2010
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS: Peter, thanks for joining us, you literally just arrived, and many congratulations for last week.  
 PETER HANSON: Thank you very much.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: And your thoughts on where you stand at the moment in terms of Ryder Cup and all.  
 PETER HANSON: It was a very special week last week in making a late call to try to get in and get the invitation, and then to go and try to win and managed to win in the end was a big thrill, definitely.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: And your position in The Ryder Cup team at the moment?   
 PETER HANSON: It's kind of a tough one, because of course, I've been getting a lot of questions Sunday evening and yesterday and actually from the Swedish media, as well, and of course everybody is hoping to get a Swedish player on the team, as they have had for so many years now.   
 But the way I'm trying to look at it, even if it's very hard, to try to refocus. This is another tournament and I have to try to do my best, and play the best I can to keep the other people behind me and of course, now Miguel decided to play. I played with Miguel Sunday, and he got asked right after we were done and asked if he would like to use a Top-10 exemption and he said no, and that pretty much got me even more motivated to try to win and now I here that he's here and playing and that changes everything again. Of course, he's got a great chance to go past me and then we have the guys right behind us, as well.   
  
  Q. Did it crop up in conversation about his plans for this week between you?   
 PETER HANSON: Yeah, we shared a little bit, but I mean, to be honest, it was quite tense when we played. We are good friends, me and Miguel, and we know each other very well but we didn't talk a lot during that last round; and I think we both felt that there was so much at stake, both for him and for me, and it was a different Sunday. We were all three of us trying to push towards The Ryder Cup. We were doing good coming into Sunday. Of course, I asked him if he was going to play, and he said no, he had a wedding to go to. And then after we were done, he still said no I believe at recording.   
  
  Q. You mentioned about important it is for Swedish golf to keep on going; can you just expand on that a little bit more, and you obviously have had some find Ryder Cup players.   
 PETER HANSON: It is a major thing, and Ryder Cup is a very big thing, especially for Swedish golf now. We have been lucky to have Henrik Stenson and Robert Karlsson playing the last two, I believe, and before that, we had great players like Jesper Parnevik and Per-Ulrik Johansson and there's been a lot of questions asked, as well for me, being the closest players to make the team, even if I was quite away from it only three or four weeks ago. So it hasn't been -- I don't know if you can call it a bit of a disappointing year so far, not having anyone secured on the team.   
  
  Q. Your experience in the Seve Trophy, Vivendi Trophy, you did well in both of them; do you think that will help you come The Ryder Cup?   
 PETER HANSON: Yeah, definitely, if I make the team, I think it's going to help me a lot, and playing under Colin's captaincy in Royal Trophy, as well, earlier this year. I really enjoy playing match play. I played with Ryo Ishikawa in that match and had a great game against him.   
 Like you said, what have I played, three Seve Trophies now, Vivendi Trophies, and I really enjoyed it. Colin was down watching the last one in France. I love match play, and there's a little bit of a match-play situation, playing in playoffs, and I've been lucky enough to win three now. When you stand on that tee and you know one is going to win and one is going to lose, it's a bit of a match-play situation.   
  
  Q. I know you've just arrived, but have you spoken with Monty?   
 PETER HANSON: I spoke with Monty yesterday. He phoned me, and I have spoken to Thomas Björn, as well. No, we'll just have to see what happens. I think Monty was very happy with my win. We have been talking quite a bit over the last three or four weeks.   
 And of course I've been very clear about trying to make this team and I've been pushing on very hard, playing a lot of golf over the summer to try to make as many Euros as I can. I played okay in America. Akron the first week I was very happy with my game and maybe didn't finish it off and my putting has been very streaky, even last week, I managed to win in Czech putting 124 times. Still not 100 per cent with the putter but working on it. It gives me a lot of confidence and belief that I can make the putt, and in the second playoff hole, as well, and that's the kind of things I need to build my trust in the putting.  
  
  Q. If you didn't make it, from what I believe, if you just missed out on the automatics, do you believe you've got any chance at a wild card?   
 PETER HANSON: I don't think so, no.   
  
  Q. Can you just explain why?   
 PETER HANSON: It's so many players just outside. Of course I've been looking at and you have players like Casey and Harrington and Justin Rose won twice this year, big tournaments, Luke Donald is ranked No. 10 in the world, Edoardo Molinari would be a good pick to play maybe with Francesco, his brother; they won the World Cup. So I think for me to have a chance, no, I don't think so.   
  
  Q. I guess you don't want to comment about other players' schedules, but you just mentioned Casey, Donald and Harrington; what's your view on the fact they are not here this week to try and qualify?  
 PETER HANSON: I can understand why, of course. When you're that close, maybe, yeah, reconsider and try to make the team. I don't know, you'd have to ask them. But for me, it's trying to get on my first Ryder Cup, of course, making the team would be absolutely amazing. So maybe to play three or four, it might mean a different thing, I don't know.   
  
  Q. Could you ever imagine being in a situation where you were in, 10,000 Euros from making the team at the last event?   
 PETER HANSON: It's so hard. I can understand, like I said, they have the FedEx; they committed to playing in America, and it's the first FedExCup week. So it must be an unbelievably hard decision. I think it just comes down to really how hard you want to make the team, how much are you -- what can I say? How much can you try to lose?   
 If you try to play in America, if you're way up in the rankings in America in the FedExCup, maybe the first tournament doesn't mean much. I don't know because I'm not a member of the tour there. I know it's 125 guys that get into the first week; but, I mean, when you could go here and play, and then maybe try to play the last three.   
  
  Q. Of the players that you've spoken to, it must be a topic of conversation amongst is the players like it is with us, what is the majority view; that they should be here?   
 PETER HANSON: I think so, yeah. As a European player, if you're that close, I mean, to make the team, I think people were talking about Paul and Pádraig -- he's not here, he's not coming over to play; Luke Donald.   
 And yeah, it's a calculation thing, isn't it. If you really want to make the team, and of course, if you're that close, then you should be here and playing. If it doesn't matter that much to you, then you might play somewhere else. Or, if you know that you're going to get a pick -- it's a calculation. Yeah, you have to think about it yourself and everybody has to make their own decisions.   
  
  Q. You mentioned the Molinaris as good players, is there anyone you would make a good pairing with?   
 PETER HANSON: I looked on the list and I've been playing a little with Graeme McDowell. We played Tavistock Cup this year and did really well there. And of course Francesco I think would be a good foursome partner for me definitely.   
 But the level of play, and the quality on this team is absolutely unbelievable. We have got a very young team. If I look at the name, Rory McIlroy, Martin Kaymer, Graeme McDowell, they are all younger than me, and I'm trying to get on my first team; and you have a hugely experienced player like Lee; and if Pádraig makes the team and gets a pick, we'll have that.   
 We are looking at a very strong team.  
  
  Q. On the same theme about players' views, do the majority think it should count against them when it comes to a wild card?   
 PETER HANSON: I don't think so, no. I think we are all interested in trying to get the strongest team, and of course, that's up to Colin to decide who he wants to pick. But I mean, like I said before, it's up it to every individual to make their own decisions, if they want to play Barclays or if you want to come here and try to earn your spot.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS: Peter, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT