WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 6, 2010
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I would imagine you're very pleased. 
 PETER HANSON: Pretty steady. Yesterday I hit it really good off the tee and was in position all the way, and that wasn't quite the story today. But the few ones I missed I chipped out and made a few bogeys, but I made enough birdies to get a good score anyway. 

 Q. This is your first time at Firestone and playing this course. This is known as a ball-striker's course. You're noted for your ball-striking. Were you licking your lips when you saw this place?
 PETER HANSON: A little bit. I've been playing good for the last bit of the season here, all the way since the French Open really, and was a bit tired coming back to Sweden after the Open, so it was nice to get a week's rest before coming here and did a bit of practice and fine tuning on my game and was very happy how I was hitting the ball when I got here. I've been hitting it really well. My iron shots have been spot on this week, so hopefully keeping that up.

 Q. You won earlier in the year in Mallorca. You're currently 51st in the World Rankings, 29th in the Race to Dubai, on the edge of the Ryder Cup. What goals have you got at the moment?
 PETER HANSON: Definitely. I've been looking at that Ryder Cup list the last week when I went back home and felt I have two really good weeks here to get back into contention again. I was closer maybe in June but fell back a bit now the last few tournaments. Really, really want to do all my best to get up there again and have a chance at it. 

 Q. These are two huge weeks for you, aren't they?
 PETER HANSON: Yeah, definitely. I looked at these two -- just to get in here, I was just on the bubble getting in, and once I got that chance to have these two big weeks -- I've been fairly happy with my game, just haven't scored great. A couple decent finishes, U.S. Open, French Open, Top 5, but want to step it up a bit. I feel my game is pretty close, so keep going, keep working and give myself two really good weeks here and try to climb up and try to impress Colin a bit. 
 I think it's going to be tough to go and play Czech. I'm still entered for Czech as a backup plan. But of course Gleneagles would be the last one to try to push to get on that team. 

 Q. Those performances you talked about, French Open, high finishes in big events, that's going to give you confidence for these two weeks, which are of that sort of stature. 
 PETER HANSON: Yeah, I feel I have the game to be up and competing. I've been playing so many of -- not the best ones, but so many majors now and world golf events. I feel my game is good enough, it's just up to me to try and hang in there and work and push a bit harder and try to step it up a bit.

 Q. It's a tough Ryder Cup team to get into, isn't it?
 PETER HANSON: It is very tough, but it would be a fantastic team to be a part of, so of course when I looked at it last week it kind of gave me a bit of extra motivation, again, to really push on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT