ABU DHABI GOLF CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2010
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   PETER HANSON: Yeah, it was of course nice to get off to a good start, and it felt very effortless today. I played good and I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens and kept giving myself good opportunities.   
  
  Q. Feels like we said the same year upon year, but the conditions are ideal, the setup is great.   
 PETER HANSON: Yeah, it's beautiful. I like it here. I had a couple of really good finishes, came close in 2007. Last year I was doing all right, as well. I like the course and feel good about it.   
  
  Q. They have tightened it and toughened it over the years, fairways seem a bit narrower, and the rough is more intense but once you get onto the course, you tend to thrive year upon year, don't you?  
 PETER HANSON: This is the kind of course that if you have weather like this, as it can be down here, hardly any wind, the greens are fantastic and the ball is rolling perfect. Even if you hit it 15 or 20 feet, you know you're going to have a good chance of making a putt, and that's going to give you a lot of about birdie opportunities and a few par 5s you can reach.   
 The scoring today is unbelievable. It's just come down to that the course is in great condition even if, like you said, the rough is up and fairways are narrow. But when we get good greens and no wind, you can be very aggressive.  
  
  Q. Some players are a bit rusty, not you, because you've already been on the road this year?  
 PETER HANSON: I started up quite early. I took a bit of a break after Dubai, but then I started up in Royal Trophy, Bangkok. So it was really nice to start up with match play. A bit rusty maybe the first day, but got better and better day by day. So it's good.   
  
  Q. No wintery Swedish weather for you?   
 PETER HANSON: A little bit. I felt it for a few days but we left for Orlando a few days before Christmas and didn't get any snow unfortunately. We had plenty since I left, and I like the winters.  
  
  Q. You've had a little time in Dubai and in the area before to build up for a season, so with a base in Florida, that's ideal, as well, for keeping things going through cold months?   
 PETER HANSON: I think you have to. Nowadays everybody is so competitive and playing so good, and I have always -- I have done all right down here. But then I had a very weak part of my season coming from February all the way up to May and maybe spend a bit too much time in Sweden.   
 So changed that and get a winter base over in Orlando. So after this I go straight there and practise and play the Match Play and Doral and hopefully get going.  
  
  Q. Does that base in Florida mean we see less of you?   
 PETER HANSON: Not really, because I don't have any playing exemptions in America. I only play the World Golf Championship events and the majors I get into. Maybe in the future, we'll see what happens.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT