ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 24, 2014
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome Peter Hanson to the media center.   7‑under today, not to mention a 2 on 6 with a 6‑iron.   Maybe you could tell us about the round, and the eagle there, and we'll open it up for a few questions. 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I got off to a good start birdieing 11, 12, 13.   Always nice to get a bit of air under the wings.   Yeah, I had a few more chances, I guess, coming in.   Then hit a sloppy tee shot off the first left and had to take an unplayable, and that was my bogey of the day.   Then jumped back on the birdie train again on 3, so birdied 3, 4, 5. 
Then a bit of a bonus 2, hole No. 6 is playing tough into the wind.   So driver and a 6‑iron, so luckily it went into the hole. 

Q.   The last time you had a 6‑iron, it turned out okay for you as well. 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, it was funny, I got back home last week at Augusta, and teed off at Lake Nona the par‑3, and I made a hole in one there with the same club.   So it's holed out twice in the last five days.

Q.   How come it didn't go in on the last hole? 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I was a bit surprised with that.   It was a 6‑iron into No. 9.   I told my caddie, give me the 6.   It normally goes in, unfortunately, it missed that time.

Q.   On be number 6, ShotLink says 183.   Was that accurate?   What did you hit in there? 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I had 184.   Yeah, spot on.

Q.   What did you hit? 
PETER HANSON:   I hit a 6‑iron.

Q.   Did you see it the whole time? 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I aimed right of the flag.   The flag was tucked left and it was over a bit of a mound.   It just rode the wind a little bit and came down straight at it.   It pitched like four inches in front of the hole, and sunk in the hole is what I've heard.   I actually didn't see it myself.

Q.   On 18 or on No. 9, did you know that was to tie the course record? 
PETER HANSON:   No, I didn't.   I didn't.   I got a few good chances.   Of course, the par‑5, I wouldn't say I had a great chance.   I hit a wedge into about 20 feet.   Then I had a really good birdie opportunity on 8 from about 10 feet straight up the hill.   Missed it just on the right lip.   So we can always say there is always‑‑ we can always find a few more, but I made some nice ones today, and I think making birdie on 3 and 4, and then obviously making 2 on 6 picks up quite a few shots on the field.

Q.   Peter, when did the winds come into play for you? 
PETER HANSON:   It was probably only on the back nine.   When we made the turn, it started to pick up.   Then it felt like it got gradually stronger from the back 9 for us.

Q.   You mentioned Augusta.   Looking back on Augusta, what was your sort of first area of success at?   Going back to the start, how do you assess how you've been playing the two? 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, I've been struggling this year coming off that back injury last year.   I know all about what Tiger's going through.   So it's been a tough start to the year, you know, fighting to make cuts.   And Augusta, I was looking forward to Augusta so much, so I think in one way I probably put too much pressure on one week.   I wasn't ready to play such a tough course. 
Anyway, I think that was good because got back to Lake Nona last week and got to regroup and work on my game.   Trying to play a little bit more relaxed.   I think I've been a little bit tense when I've been out there trying to overdo things.   So far, so good.   So I'll take it whatever way it is, and obviously, this is a great start.

Q.   Do you think today you can step back and relax a little more, maybe? 
PETER HANSON:   Yeah, definitely.   I put the clubs away for four days when I got back from Augusta.   Obviously, very disappointed with my performance there.   You know, played quite a bit of golf back home, practiced quite a bit, tried to not overanalyze things.   I have a tendency to do that.   I think I'm probably not the only one.   But we want to do this so exact and be so precise.   Sometimes I think‑‑ anyway, I do overdo things.   I overread putts and overanalyze the shots, trying to figure this game out.   I think sometimes you have to let the score come to you instead of you going after it.

Q.   Other than that stretch at 3, 4, 5, 6, you kind of just were rolling along.   Did that one at 3 really kick start it?   How long was that one? 
PETER HANSON:   I hit it just right of the green on 3.   Hit a pretty good 4‑iron, but those holes are tough.   This course is very‑‑ you have some really tough holes into the winds, long irons into the greens.   Then you have quite a few wedge shots into the greens.   Like I said, I played it a little backwards today.   Took advantage and made birdie on a lot of the tough holes, and didn't convert on the so‑called easier ones.   So, obviously, that was huge. 
The birdie on 3 and 4 kind of set it up, and hit a good 9‑iron into No. 5 and made a 12‑foot putt.   So those kind of make up for maybe the two misses that I have coming into the last two holes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT