PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 19, 2007
Peter Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Tell us about another good day.   
 PETER HANSON:  Yeah, it was a good day, solid start.  Managed to get birdies on 11, 12, and we have a par 5, 17, so 3-under on the front.  And then birdied 2 and 3.   
 The only disappointment was the 4th where I had a little lob-wedge in and managed to get it too short and 3-putted for bogey, and bounced back with birdie on 5 and 6 right away again.   
 So it's all about taking care of the par 5s.  I was 4-under through the par 5s.   
  
  Q.  You're obviously confident now, and your form shows that you're on a run of confident play every time you're out there.   
 PETER HANSON:  Yeah, definitely.  It feels like every time I've teed it up, it's been a feeling that I have a chance, and I've been having a lot of Top-10s, Top-20s all year.  And it's only the win that is missing this year that's turning a good year into a great year.   
  
  Q.  Something you've been working on particularly?   
 PETER HANSON:  Yeah, I feel it's gotten better over the last two or three years.  2005 when I had my win in Spain, I finished Top-25 on the Order of Merit and last year was really solid as well.  If I didn't have that virus thing with the balance system, it would probably have been a similar year, maybe Top-20 on Order of Merit again.   
 So it feels like I've really established myself at the top.  It all about getting a few more putts and maybe playing a little more aggressive to get one of those wins.   
  
  Q.  You're right in the mix now, depends on the afternoon guys, but you're in with a shout again.   
 PETER HANSON:  Yeah, it feels like the course is playing pretty easy today as well, so you can expect some low scores.  But it all depends what Martin does.  The 61 yesterday, if he gets on fire again today it might be hard to catch him.   
 But I still think if you can get down to close to 20-under par for the week, I should have a pretty good chance.   
  
  Q.  You're halfway there.  23rd on the Order of Merit, do you have a target, Top-15?   
 PETER HANSON:  Yeah, definitely, first of all I would like to get in Top-20 to qualify for HSBC, and that would be great.  And I mean, I'm not playing next week because of that, because it feels like if I play decent here and play good in Valderrama, I should have a good chance of getting into the Top-15, Top-20.  Top-15, it's a very big gap, so I probably need to win this week or Valderrama to get into the Top-15.   
 But Top-20 is a respectable target.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT