ROSE BOWL GAME: GEORGIA VS OKLAHOMA
December 30, 2017
Isaiah Wynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell us, how has (inaudible) impacted the team?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Impacted a lot.  He's definitely brought in to the change of culture.  That's something they always preach, that we have to continue to change the culture around here.   
 Q.  Change the culture, what's that mean?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just making sure everybody was on the same page and we had no stragglers.  Everybody had to be all in or not be on the team.   
 Q.  What's "all in" look like (inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Looks like exactly what we've been doing this past season.  And it just means that everybody has to buy in and can't have no stragglers.   
 Q.  I'm trying to get a feel for what that means, what do stragglers do?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Like bad vibes or players who don't want to be here.   
 Q.  Trying to chang the attitude?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yes.   
 Q.  Were you skeptical of it, when they made the coaching change?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, you gotta accept it.   
 Q.  He's the son of a high school coach, is that something you see in the way he does business?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Oh, yeah, definitely.  You can just tell just by the way he cares.  Look at Coach Smart, you can see years of experience with this.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I believe so.  Yeah.   
 Q.  What changes (inaudible) versus the other (inaudible) (question about the offensive line)?  How have you improved so much?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Everybody is just bought in.  We have no stragglers.  Everybody who is here wants to be here.  So every day we come out to practice and we'll just give it our all.   
 Q.  Was it just a matter of getting better familiarity of the coaching (indiscernible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, definitely.  Had to get to adjusted to the coaching staff.   
 Q.  (Question about offensive line).  
ISAIAH WYNN: He's just unique.  If you are out there practicing, you can just tell how much more unique he is from other offensive line coaches.  His teaching is more unique than others.   
 Q.  More of a teacher than a yeller?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah.   
 Q.  How important is that having someone who is willing to (inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's definitely good and definitely better for the younger guys to get a hold of that type of coaching style.  Not everybody wants to be yelled at or, you know, go out and practice be yelled at.  Just having that type of coaching staff, It's tremendously helpful.   
 Q.  Speaking of the running game.  So many guys talk about the fact (inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah.  A lot.  We come together a lot.  We added the missing pieces we added, and we're just having a great time, fun time doing it.   
 Q.  Take me through this week for you guys.  You guys beat Auburn in the SEC championship.  Seems like it was forever ago since you played your last game.  Lot of time to think about the Rose Bowl.  How has the preparation time been for you?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's been pretty good.  We haven't been dwelling on the past.  We just focus on the future.  So every day is just taking it day-by-day.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's definitely valuable.  That's the reason those guys came back.  And it's been great.  And it definitely shows right now the fact of the season we're having.   
 Q.  What about Kirby Smart?  Takes over couple of years ago.  Georgia Bulldog.  Several years ago (indiscernible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just made sure everybody is bought in.  If a player doesn't want to be here, he made sure that the player had an opportunity to go elsewhere.  But everybody who is here right now definitely wants to be here.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I'm not saying it did (inaudible).   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: (Indiscernible).  Basically we do a good job recovering the whole week (inaudible).   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, I don't think so.  I think if you start to think that it's a little too much, you have the possibility of messing up the game.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: To me it's kind of about the same about, altitude, whatever it may be, but the weather is about the same as in Florida, the way it is out here.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I would just say I got to meet a lot more people.  But other than that, my high school did a very good of preparing me for college.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just keep pushing and striving to be the best.   
 Q.  What did you strive for in high school?  
ISAIAH WYNN: To be the best.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) when you were that young?  
ISAIAH WYNN: You just gotta continue to work, you gotta come in every day, ready to work.   
 Q.  So your opponents that I interviewed, they did a lot of film study.  Did you guys do the same?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah.  You just have to break it down on film, break down every player.   
 Q.  How does that benefit you guys?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Benefits us a lot.  We're just prepared to go into that game.   
 Q.  What's it been like watching Jake develop during the entire season?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's been awesome.  He's one of those guys that gets better every week, it seems like.   
 Q.  See that guy over there, what's it like blocking for him?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's great.  Him, Sony (phonetic) and the rest of the running backs, they always do a good job.  They make us look good and we make them look good.   
 Q.  (Trip to Disneyland) What's it been like participating in that?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's been great.  Some of the events we done, we definitely want to get the experience as if we came up here by ourselves.   
 Q.  When it comes to the battle in the trenches, what do you see Oklahoma bringing?  
ISAIAH WYNN: They're fast and physical and they all fly to the ball.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible).  How has (indiscernible) been for you guys?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's been good.   
 Q.  What does Oklahoma, what kind of challenge do they present to you guys?  
ISAIAH WYNN: They definitely play physical and play low.  And they're very fast.  It's going to be a good challenge for us up front.   
 Q.  Talk about the guys behind you, the running backs and what type of season they've had this year.  
ISAIAH WYNN: They definitely had a breakout season.  I mean, you're able to tell just by their stats.  He's already at a thousand and Sony is 50 away from a thousand.  So it goes to show that the type of season they had.   
 Q.  Talk about the chemistry you have with the running backs?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's a big chemistry.  You have to have that type of chemistry.  Blocking for them, everybody has to be on the same page.   
 Q.  What's it mean for you as well as the team, A to Z to go to the Rose Bowl?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It means a lot.  It's legendary.   
 Q.  Is this something you look forward to it.  Are you worried about the moment being too big for you guys?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, not at all.   
 Q.  How has coach prepped you for the game?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just telling us to keep the main thing the main thing.  That's the best way to go about it.   
 Q.  Are you having fun with this season?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yes, of course.   
 Q.  How would you sum up your season so far?  
 Was it your goal to be in the final four as a team.   
ISAIAH WYNN: It wasn't the goal.  We just took it one game at a time.  Now that we're here, it's great.   
 Q.  How much did the loss you guys suffered against Auburn, how much did that help you refocus your season?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I think it helped.  It's definitely something we needed to take a step back and look at ourselves.   
 Q.  How have you been enjoying yourself?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I've been doing good.  It's definitely been great.  Great to be out here in Pasadena.   
 Q.  Have you been making curfew on time?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yes, of course.  Always.   
 Q.  Rose Bowl game is a couple days away.  What are you looking forward most January 1st against Oklahoma?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Beating Oklahoma.   
 Q.  We're here at the Rose Bowl game, what is the most fun thing you've done since you've gotten to Los Angeles?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Definitely Disneyland.   
 Q.  Did you like the Lawry's Beef Bowl?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, I did.  It was good.   
 Q.  How many plates did you have of the prime rib?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I only had one.  It was big enough just for me.   
 Q.  Was it the best prime rib you've ever had?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, one of the best.   
 Q.  How has the week been?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's been good.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah.   
 Q.  What's it been the most fun so far.  
ISAIAH WYNN: Disneyland.  Disneyland was the most fun.   
 Q.  What was most fun?  
ISAIAH WYNN: The rides, Guardians of the Galaxy, that was good.   
 Q.  How has practice been?  Like Athens?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, a little bit warmer, but it's definitely just been the same.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, had a little something.   
 Q.  How do you feel about your teammate, Reggie Carter?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Love him.   
 Q.  Anything more?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No.  (Laughter).   
 Q.  (Inaudible) what's it mean to be here with this class and knowing this group will be all together at one time?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It means a lot.  It's definitely legendary.   
 Q.  What do you have to do in practice to prepare for this game?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Keeping the main thing the main thing.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) Left tackle in practice, what have you done to help him?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Young guys like that, you just have to take them under your wing.  That's the only thing I can do.  But he's definitely been learning, just like the rest of the young guys like Netori Jackson and the rest of them, all those guys, they're definitely coming up.   
 Q.  Talked about it took time to adjust to his style, was that how it was for you having a coach before that and then having him come in?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, it was.   
 Q.  What was different about his style?  
ISAIAH WYNN: His style is just unique from any other offensive line coach that I think any of us have ever been coached by.   
 Q.  Style?  What's unique about him?  
ISAIAH WYNN: We actually have to get movement and not just stalemate all the time.   
 Q.  You mentioned earlier in the week that Oklahoma is a little smaller defensively.  Would you prefer to play against a defense like that or one that's equally talented but thicker and bigger?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Oh, I'm fine with either one.   
 Q.  How do you assess the guys up front that you'll be matched up against?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Definitely fast and physical.  They all fly to the ball.  Those are the type of guys you have to get your hands on quick and you have to rely on your technique.   
 Q.  Your freshman is not playing like a freshman.  What's his maturity been like?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's been good.  He's been like that since he came in.  He definitely is not a typical freshman.  At this point you consider him kind of a semi-veteran, given that he's played all the games since he came in.   
 Q.  Big-time setting, the Rose Bowl semi-finals.  You concerned at all how he carries himself?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Not at all.  Not at all.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I can kind of compare them to Mississippi State.  Those guys move a lot.  And those guys, their inside linebackers are fast.   
 Q.  (Responsibility of the line).  Go against a linebacker a lot of times.  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah.   
 Q.  Everybody is anxious to play?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Everybody is anxious to play.  Coach Smart does a good job of not making the game plan very tedious and so we don't get tired of it.  It's good.  He's always making sure it's fresh on us.   
 Q.  (Question about players and the draft).  Ever see that happening?  Why not?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I just think that every player always wants help contribute to their team win, whether it be preseason or postseason.   
 Q.  That's another level, when you're talking about missing a playoff game.  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yes.   
 Q.  What did you think about, what went their your mind when you saw McCaffrey skip a bowl game last year?  
ISAIAH WYNN: That's their decision, probably made a business decision.  And everybody's decision is different.   
 Q.  A bunch of guys this year did that register at all?  McCaffrey is criticized, a guy that carried the ball 800 times, for not being there for his team.  Does that register with you?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, don't pay too much attention to it.   
 Q.  (Question about FSU)  how does that not happen to you?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I didn't want to stay in Florida.   
 Q.  Who did you root for growing up?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Nobody.  I didn't watch football growing up.   
 Q.  What?  You didn't watch the NFL?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No.   
 Q.  So what did you watch?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just cartoons.  I was either watching cartoons or going outside.   
 Q.  (Question about interest in football).  
ISAIAH WYNN: Eighth grade, when my brother was in high school.  And his senior year he used to take me out to there to practice.  That's when I actually got a feel for football.   
 Q.  Is that Lakewood?  Your brother played at Lakewood, too?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yes, he played tackle.   
 Q.  Did he go on and play after high school?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah.  He went to Valdosta State.   
 Q.  And you followed his career along that way?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yes.   
 Q.  What did you learn from your brother watching him go through that part of his career?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just that it takes blood, sweat and tears.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Shoutout to my friends and family back at home and DawgNation, they will be here.   
 Q.  Is there anyone, family friends or coach, and say I want to thank you?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Definitely my high school coach.  I tend to thank him a lot.  He definitely prepared me for this type of environment.  In high school, a lot of guys get the easy way out.  And the way he coached, he really prepared me for the next level.   
 Q.  Highlights from the Rose Bowl?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Disneyland was definitely fun, getting on the Guardian of the Galaxy was fun.   
 Q.  Impression of Coach Smart?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I don't have one.  I don't do impressions.   
 Q.  What about Coach Sinclair [phonetic]?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Don't have one of him.  Nick's pretty good with them.  Nick and Roquan are good with impressions.   
 Q.  How are you feeling?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Feels good.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) social activity --  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, it's been good.  Definitely Disneyland.  Yeah.   
 Q.  What in particular --  
ISAIAH WYNN: The whole thing, but the Guardian of the Galaxy was pretty cool.   
 Q.  When you step out on the feel, what will the emotion and the adrenalin be like?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's definitely going to be high.  It's going to be legendary, a little history in the making.   
 Q.  How does that translate to your performance?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just leave it all out on the field.   
 Q.  What would be you signature line at the Rose Bowl?  What would be (inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: The scoreboard, getting that W.   
 Q.  Who has been the biggest inspiration to you?  
ISAIAH WYNN: As far as what?   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: My mom.  She definitely pushed me in every way possible.  And she's still here to this day to do the same.   
 Q.  What are her words of inspiration to you?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just keep going and take every day, day by day and enjoy where I'm at right now.   
 Q.  What about an athlete, who inspired your athletics?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Like an athlete?  I don't know.  I don't know.   
 Q.  When you were growing up, did you ever see yourself in this position?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No.   
 Q.  When did you realize, hey, I'm doing something pretty good?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Definitely high school.  I think by the time I got to my senior year of high school, I realized that I could really go far with football.   
 Q.  How high is the bar for you?  What are your ultimate goals?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Definitely to finish off the season right.   
 Q.  Want to give a big shoutout to your team, state and your family.  
ISAIAH WYNN: Shoutout to my family and friends, and and shout out to DawgNation.  I know you'll all be out here supporting us.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) blocking.  Do you have any memories of Terry's catch at Notre Dame?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, see it all the time.   
 Q.  What was your reaction in the moment and then maybe seeing it later on replays?  
ISAIAH WYNN: On the field, in that moment, I didn't notice how spectacular of a catch it was until I saw it on the JumboTron and seeing him make that catch.  That was awesome.   
 Q.  How much do you feel like that game, in particular that second half, maybe served as a springboard at all for the rest of your season?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yes.   
 Q.  How much did you kind of build off that, going on the road in a hostile environment like that?  
ISAIAH WYNN: You definitely have to build off that because that's a tough environment to play in.  We definitely use that as motivation.   
 Q.  Being here at the Rose Bowl now, playing for a national championship, is there a moment in the offseason or during the season when you guys felt like we really are national championship material?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I think it was during camp when we realized that we definitely had something special.   
 Q.  What in particular did you feel was special, maybe different from years past?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just the coaching, everybody did a great job buying in and everybody (indiscernible) leadership-wise.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, not at all.   
 Q.  What are you guys (inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Been there from day one, especially (inaudible).   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just keeping the main thing the main thing.   
 Q.  Don't get ahead of yourselves?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Gotta keep focused, gotta take it one day and one game at a time.   
 Q.  With Coach Smart having been down the road, does that kind of help (inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah.  It helps a lot just because nobody here has been able to be down that road, down this path.  So he definitely gives us insight on how to go about it, and everybody trusts the way he's leading us.   
 Q.  Was there anything in particular that stuck out to you?  
ISAIAH WYNN: What do you mean?   
 Q.  As in a piece of advice.  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just keeping the main thing the main thing, keeping the focus.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's been good.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It was my first time.   
 Q.  Where are you from?  
ISAIAH WYNN: St. Petersburg, Florida.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Kind of the as far as environment-wise.   
 Q.  Your favorite (indiscernible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Disneyland.  That was good.  It was fun.   
 Q.  Been to Disney World?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I only went to Disney World one time and that was definitely when I was younger.  I was about six years old.   
 Q.  What's the best ride?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Disneyland, Guardians of the Galaxy.  That was good.   
 Q.  That's a new one I think, too.  How many plates of prime rib?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I was only able to put down one.  Ben Cleveland, he was on, I want to say plate four.   
 Q.  How weird is it to prep for (inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's not really weird.  You take it the same way you take it every other game.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: (Indiscernible) I'll tell you every single day.  Every time I see him time you hear me say (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Where are you from?  
ISAIAH WYNN: St. Petersburg.   
 Q.  Where would you want to go in the world?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Turks and Caicos.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
ISAIAH WYNN: (Inaudible).   
 Q.  If you have one thing to say to your mom right now, what would it be?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I love you, mom.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT