ROSE BOWL GAME: GEORGIA VS OKLAHOMA
December 28, 2017
Nick Chubb
Jeb Blazevich
Isaiah Wynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're going to get started with running back Nick Chubb; in the middle, offensive lineman Isaiah Wynn; and next to me is tight end Jeb Blazevich.  We'll start with questions.   
 Q.  Isaiah, I think most people would say that the Georgia offensive line played much better this season than the year before.  What do you attribute the improvement to?  
ISAIAH WYNN: We definitely bought in this season.  I mean, we definitely had to get used to the coaching staff, and I definitely believe everybody just did a good job of stepping up leadership-wise and pulling everybody along just enough to buy in and make sure that everybody's doing it the right way.   
 Q.  Oklahoma's defense has been highly scrutinized all season as kind of a weak link for them.  For all three of you, what do you see from Oklahoma defensively?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Well, personally, I definitely believe that they're fast and physical up front.  Their linebackers fly, their outside linebackers fly to the ball.   
I personally believe that they're a good defensive unit.  We don't too much pay attention to what the media may say about them because they're not the ones playing them, we are.  So I definitely believe those guys are a great group of guys, and it's definitely going to be a great match-up against them, our offense against that defense.   
JEB BLAZEVICH: Yeah, I'd say the same thing.  They have a bunch of athletes.  I think their secondary tackles extremely well.  I think they play well together.  Like Isaiah said, we really can't listen to what people say because regardless of who they've been in the past, same with us, all that matters is what we do today to get ready to play in the game and how we play in the game.   
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, they're very fast, physical.  Very athletic.  They definitely have great team speed and can fly around.  They're very fast, and it's possible that we haven't seen this year just a very fast team like them.  So it will be a great challenge for us.   
 Q.  For all three of you, when did you realize Jake Fromm really had potential to lead this team to where it is?  Kind of the first time he spoke up as a leader, what kind of went through your mind about him?  
JEB BLAZEVICH: I feel like he is who he is.  He came in day one being the same guy you see now.  Like I've said before, it's hard when you're with guys every day really to see the drastic improvements that they make, just because it's little by little throughout a long period of time.   
So I feel like it wasn't until he was in the moment that they were like, wow, this is him.  He's been doing this for a while.  It's not until you go back to, I guess, spring ball film and really realize, oh, we've all come a long way, him included.   
ISAIAH WYNN: For me, I definitely believe that the time I really took note that he was filling in that leadership role pretty well was doing seven on seven during the summertime.  It was just obvious that he was just different as opposed to some other players.  He always made sure that everybody's matching his intensity, always came out there with the right intensity.   
So that was definitely a point in time where I was like, yeah, he's definitely going to be a great player.   
NICK CHUBB: Yeah, going back to spring football when he first came in.  He's always been outspoken and a great leader, and makes the right checks and great passes.  From spring until the summer, from seven on seven into the game, he realized that's who he is.  Since he got here, he's the same kid.   
He's a great leader for us, and we're just so happy that he was ready to come in and step in and play.  He's been great ever since.   
 Q.  From afar, watching the SEC, it's been to everyone, Alabama.  Not only the SEC, nationally.  Do you guys feel like you're coming and you might be ready to pass Alabama?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I'm definitely not going to sit here and compare us to Alabama.  But I definitely believe that we're definitely changing the culture here at Georgia.  I definitely believe that we have a bright future ahead for us.   
JEB BLAZEVICH: I'd say the same thing.  As soon as Coach Smart came in, and just continuing with our class and the guys before us and the guys coming up after us, just the culture is changing.  We understand that we have our goals and our vision, but we also need to understand what we need to do today to get there.   
I think that's the right perspective.  Guys are buying in, they come in and work hard, and this is what you get.   
NICK CHUBB: I've been with some great teams, and that's a great comparison.  But we have ways to go.  You can't look at just one season as anything, just got to have it -- Alabama's doing it for consecutive years, and we hope we get to that level.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT