ROSE BOWL GAME: GEORGIA VS OKLAHOMA
December 28, 2017
Isaiah Wynn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
ISAIAH WYNN: I definitely think it was important.  Definitely because it showed that he had to take adversity face on.  I think he adjusted well and it just showed that at any time or anything it may be somebody else who may have to step up, so everybody has to be prepared.   
 Q.  You play a position that obviously guys at six-five, 330, how does that speak to your athleticism that you have had such success to be a second team All-American at your size and weight?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I think that it definitely speaks volumes, it definitely shows that I can do it all.  I'm just looking forward to just continuing to this game and possibly the next game.   
 Q.  When you look at your career, working inside, center, guard, here, how versatile has your game grown through these four years?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I definitely became versatile a lot.  I'm pretty much able to play any position that the team needs me on the line.  So I just became a very versatile player.   
 Q.  What's it like being a teammate of Sony and Nick?  What's he like to have around the locker room and away from the field?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Away from the field he's kind of more laid back, goofy type of guy.  He's just hard not to like.  He's definitely a great guy, a great personality and he's always walking around with a smile on his face.   
 Q.  What about Jake?  What's he like?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Jake is, he's always, he always seems like he's taking that leadership role on and off the field.  It could be something small off the field, he's still developing into that type of leader that he is on the field.   
 Q.  Does he ever have such a freshman moment?  More like off the field than on it?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Not that I recall.   
 Q.  Does that surprise you, because as a freshmen in college I was an idiot.  
ISAIAH WYNN: Well, yeah, it does, but you can tell he came here with the right mindset.   
 Q.  When did you know that?  Was it in preseason?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Definitely during camp he really stepped up and you kind of say more summer too when we were doing seven on seven and just seeing his little leadership roles that he was taking on during that time period.  But now it's very effect and it shows every game, every practice.   
 Q.  What kind of things was he doing specifically?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just if a guy's tempo is low or somebody's intensity may be low, he's getting them on the right page.  If somebody runs the wrong route or we miss a protection, he's always there, right there to correct us at that moment.   
 Q.  That's pretty bold for a freshman.  That's pretty rare.  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, it is.   
 Q.  As seniors do y'all immediately respond well to that or was there some of that, you know, who is this?  
ISAIAH WYNN: You have to.  He definitely did a great job running our spread.  Somebody like that who steps in and who is ready to take on such a big role as a quarterback or whatever position it may being, you have to, you have no choice but to respect that.   
 Q.  What's it like being out here?  Are you a guy that cares about L.A., Hollywood all that kind of stuff?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Oh, I mean, I do care about it, it is nice to see, but we're on a business trip.  I definitely enjoy it out here.  It is a beautiful place.   
 Q.  Could you have imagined like Georgia's first trip 75 years ago, I think they were on a train.  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, I couldn't imagine that.  We were in that first class with the seat laid back and so I can't imagine that.   
 Q.  Do you find it funny that people think of you as small because you're not a 350-pound offensive tackle?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, I definitely adjusted to it.  I heard that all through high school and all that type of stuff, so now it's normal to hear.  I don't mind it I play big, so.   
 Q.  Does it motivate you a little bit?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, of course.  Due to that reason.  I'm always having that chip on my shoulder.   
 Q.  How would you describe the difference between Sony and Nick's running styles?  
ISAIAH WYNN: That's a good question.  I think Nick, me personally I would describe him as a more downhill, occasionally he may hit you with a little move or something, but Sony is a guy who is going to go down hill and hit you with a little move.  They're both powerful back, they're both good backs.   
 Q.  Has that been an easy dynamic for them, sharing the load and the spotlight?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I believe so.  You could definitely see that both those guys, they're not selfish.  They do a great job of sharing that load and sharing that responsibility.  I never once heard any of them two complain about anything.   
 Q.  Do you guys have sort of a set pattern of when they're going to play and how they're going to rotate or?  
ISAIAH WYNN: That's a question for them.  I don't know.  I just block.   
(Laughter.)   
 Q.  Do you know who is in there outside of --  
ISAIAH WYNN: Well, yeah, we huddle up and I get to see who is in there then, but for the most part I don't know who it is until I see that jersey down past the line of scrimmage, so.   
 Q.  What is that like to know where it's not just those two, it's a whole offense?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's definitely awesome.  Like it's a give and take type situation.  I make them, we as an offensive line unit make them look good, they make us look good, so it's definitely just an enjoyable experience knowing that you not only have those two but you have a whole stable back there of young guys eager to run the ball.   
 Q.  What do you guys do in the huddle?  I haven't seen a huddle in three or four years.  They don't huddle any more.  What do you guys do in huddles?  
ISAIAH WYNN: We talk about the play.  We make sure everybody knows their assignment and everybody knows the play and that's pretty much it.  It's not like we spend the whole half in the huddle, it's real quick.  Jake comes in the huddle, calls the play and we go attack.   
 Q.  You're active on social media.  What do you get from the fans where the program is at now?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I can definitely see all the fans, they're all excited just about how we're doing and how we're building this type of culture just from this season.   
 Q.  How about just for your group, too, where you go from last year where it was a rough year for you guys to this year playing the way you did and then just the continual players that Coach Pittman is adding.  
ISAIAH WYNN: I think it definitely excites everybody, given that probably over the last few seasons we kind of struggled with that type of stuff, but we're just looking forward to the future and you can definitely tell that the fans and everybody is very excited about that.   
 Q.  You lived with Sony and Nick, right?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah.   
 Q.  We always ask them about each other, but you're an objective third party.  What would you say kind of the differences are in them personality wise and are they, how competitive are they?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Personality wise, I would say that Nick's more kind of laid back and relaxed.  Sony is the one who is always wanting to move and go places and stuff.  What was the other question?   
 Q.  What was the other question?  Which one -- oh, how competitive are they?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Oh, actually, you probably don't see it much on the field, given that they're not selfish about how competitive those two are, but anything in the household, it just seems like it brings outs the competitive nature in all of us.  He we may be sitting there playing darts or we may just be talking and lessee who can get the loudest or something, you know?  It's something that we're always competing in the house.   
 Q.  What's it like practicing against a great linebacker like you have?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's great.  You normally not many teams get to experience that type of speed or that type of player in practice.  Every day you don't get to go against that type of player very much.  So it definitely sharpens us as an offensive line, but also as an offensive line, I mean an offensive unit, because I mean he's always flying around the ball, so you always have to be on your P's and Q's and it seems like every time we go against a good on good, it's a game rep.  We take it as a game rep and it definitely pays off.  I attribute a lot of the success we had this season to guys like him on our D-line and our outside linebackers, they all got us better.   
 Q.  When you see other really good linebackers, they're, do they stack up with him do you think?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, I don't think so.  I don't think.  So we play some good linebackers, but definitely nobody's touching him.   
 Q.  How, when did you know that he was going to be pretty good?  Did you get that sense pretty he early?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, I definitely got it, I want to say probably when he came back from his injury, I believe.  And he was just flying around.  He always flew around, but now it's just like it was just like different.  Like he was always just around the ball.   
 Q.  This is a tough one, who is the better back?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Both of them.   
(Laughter.)   
 Q.  They're kind of different though.  Styles and everything else.  How would you describe them that way?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Just like I said earlier, from me personally, I think that Nick's more of a downhill and Sony's downhill but he's also going to throw in a good move or two.   
 Q.  Can you tell a difference in terms of the play calling when one guy is in there versus one guy's out?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, not really.   
 Q.  Do you from a historical perspective do you think it dawns on you guys who you're playing with?  I mean when you look there's 7,000 career yards, more than that, between these two guys.  Nick's second to Walker, he's only third all time at Georgia, I mean do you think you have any sense of the history of having these two guys at this time on the same team?  
ISAIAH WYNN: What do you mean?   
 Q.  Just the fact that you got two guys like this on one team at one time.  
ISAIAH WYNN: Oh, yeah, I mean it's definitely, I think that it hit us as an offensive line unit early in the season when one of them, I think it was Nick first broke one of the records or made a stat that -- yeah and we were like, dang, we're really helping these guys, so -- and Sony, I think he's 52 yards away from making a thousand, so we look forward to helping him get that.   
 Q.  What are your impressions of the OU defense?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Oh, they're some fast, physical guys.  Their whole line D-line unit, defensive unit, they all fly to the ball.  They got some pretty good outside linebackers, their linebackers are flying, they're heavy, the front, the nose, they have a pretty good defense.   
 Q.  How would you compare them to some of the defenses you face in the SEC?  
ISAIAH WYNN: They're much alike.  They may not have the typical size of SEC D-line, but those guys play just as good or not better than some of the guys we face in the season.   
 Q.  Are you familiar with Ogbo?  Their defensive end?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah.   
 Q.  What do you make of him?  
ISAIAH WYNN: He's quick, fast, definitely one of the guys that is their playmaker, but not only besides him you have number 19, who is pretty good.  You have the number 87, I mean he is good as well.  So a lot of those guys, they just have a lot of playmakers, I believe.  So we're definitely going to have to be on our A game.   
 Q.  Ogbo, does he remind you of Holland or any of the other players you face this had year?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I wouldn't say none of them just because he's not the typical size outside linebacker, but his speed definitely will remind me of somebody.  Holland or he may be quicker than Holland to me, so.   
 Q.  How would you describe coach's style?  Is he a typical O-line coach?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, I think his style is definitely different and that's why I believe that it just took us awhile to get comfortable with him, but his style of teaching is definitely unique and is working.   
 Q.  How is it unique?  Can you give me some insight into that?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I can't give you no secrets, man.   
(Laughter.)   
No, he's definitely just a, he's the type of coach who gives you the answers to the test and let's you go out there and use them.  He gives you a bunch of tools to use and I definitely just believe like he just, his coaching style is just different.  If you were out there at our practice, you'll probably get a feel for it.   
 Q.  When he came in and you guys knew that he was from Arkansas and they obviously relied heavily on the defensive line.  What did you think?  Did you do any research on him or anything like that?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, I didn't.   
 Q.  Do you follow his like social media stuff.  He's got some pretty funny stuff.  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, I do.  I always look at it.  It's like, "yes, sir, sir," so it's pretty awesome.   
 Q.  He brings a lot of energy it seems like?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, he does.   
 Q.  There's a sense out there that about Oklahoma has a pretty good defense and there's a sense out there where they're not getting the credit for that.  Have you heard some of the skepticism out there about their defense?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, of course, but that, you look at them on film and could make a pretty good argument about that.  Like I said, those guys fly around, they're quick, they got some good playmakers on that team.  So I don't pay too much attention to that because at the end of the day we're going to be the guys facing them and not people out there who are saying they're not that good.   
 Q.  How much did you expect from Jacob this year?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I expect a lot, given his injury to let somebody else step up for him.  His role is definitely a point, just because any time just like how he was in the beginning of the season and his number could get called again at any time, so I think he did a very good job of just staying on track.   
 Q.  Can you tell that's helped Jake along this year?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, definitely.  Definitely.  Because he, you got that guy behind you who is pushing you.  It's also helping him.   
 Q.  You guys got another five star coming in.  How do you think that whole thing's going to play out?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I don't know, we're definitely going to see.   
 Q.  Have you met him?  Did you like Fields?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I haven't got a chance to meet him yet.   
 Q.  I don't know if you saw this, but after the SEC championship game, the locker room was open and so there's this big crowd of people around Jake and then Jacob is right next to him and the guy who, going into the season was going to be the guy, can barely get into his locker.  It was almost like, that's kind of how the season went for him a little bit.  Do you see that seen, do you get what I'm talking about how that would have been tough for a guy to go from being the guy to getting injured and now he's not the guy?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I didn't see it but I can kind of see what you're saying, but at the same time his adversity, he's one of the guys who you can tell that it didn't phase him.  So he did a very good job of taking on that adversity, he's still doing good.   
 Q.  What's the biggest difference between Jake early in the season to him now?  
ISAIAH WYNN: I would definitely say his IQ.  He came in very intelligent, very knowledgeable on our play calling and our scheme, but now he just definitely is one of those quarterbacks who he can see a rotation and change that immediately and get us all on the right page, so definitely during the season you could tell that game by game that's something he definitely got better at.   
 Q.  Is he the calm veteran now in the huddle versus kind a little bit nervous early on?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Actually he never even when Jacob got hurt and he came in the huddle, first thing he said was, I love you all boys, let's go get this W.  I never got that sense of him being nervous or being scared.  I was all through practice, all through the season, I never got that sense of being nervous as a freshman from him.   
 Q.  He's such a confident guy, it sounds like that came through.  Was there ever a moment even in a good natured way where you sort of had to remind him that, hey, you're a freshman?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, I think that at one point in practice he told me I had a corner or somebody coming and I just turned around and said, yeah, I know, I got this.  And that was about the only time.  Afterwards he came up to me he said, yeah, I know, you got it.  So after that we're good.  But other than that, I mean something that small, it just shows the type of quarterback he is.  I mean he tries to see everything, he tries to do everything, but that's just the type of guy he is.  I respect him.   
 Q.  Is that weird to have a freshman kind of changing blocking schemes and all that?  
ISAIAH WYNN: No, not really, just because whatever's going to help him and help us be in the best position, you go to the respect it.  You can't argue that.   
 Q.  What's his leadership role like on this team given such a position, key position, but also being a freshman?  
ISAIAH WYNN: It's definitely big.  As I said, just like I respect or I feel like the whole team definitely respects everything he says and does, just because I mean he proves himself.  He definitely earned his stripes early on during the summer during seven on seven and all that stuff.  So everybody's faced him and everybody knows that his intentions are good and he's doing whatever he can that's best for the team.   
 Q.  There's been more than a few SEC teams that have won national titles, how does that fuel your guys' desire to join that group?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Oh, it definitely motivates us a lot.  Of course every team's end goal is to ultimately make it to the National Championship, but we definitely started off the season not with that in mind, we always took it one game at a time, but now I mean it is within grabbing distance, so we just got to take it one game at a time and finish strong.   
 Q.  The SEC obviously gets a lot of respect, is, but do those teams that have won it, the Florida's, Alabama's, LSU's, do they kind of get put up on a little higher pedestal?  
ISAIAH WYNN: Yeah, kind of, just because they have more of a history of going more than maybe we have, but we're changing the culture around here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT