ANA INSPIRATION
March 31, 2018
Albane Valenzuela
Alexis Valenzuela
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It's definitely one of the coolest stories of the week.  How about this, and we'll get to this brother-sister duo in just a minute, but you've played in this event six times, but to be this high up on the leaderboard, how are you able to control the nerves out there, this being a major?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Just be very patient.  It's just a round of golf.  I tried to enjoy it with my brother, and try to stay focused and try to hit one shot at a time.  I try not to be distracted by everything that's going on.   
 Q.  I know Alexis has caddied for you before, but this is the first time he's caddied for you in a major.  How special is that to be able to share this moment with him?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: It's so fun and so special for me.  He's my best friend, he's my little brother, and I just love having him on the bag.  If I make a mistake on the course, he's always like, oh, don't worry.  He's just very relaxed and that really helps me keep my energy and just the stress down.   
 Q.  Just to make sure to clarify, six professional events, second time in the ANA.  Alexis, what has this opportunity been like for you, not just to be out there alongside your sister, but to watch her play so well?  
ALEXIS VALENZUELA: I think I'm learning a lot, actually, in this tournament.  To say that even as a U.S. Amateur, even if it's not a professional tournament, I've learned so much.  After that, well, I had a junior tournament, I just tried to be as strategic as she told me how to do it.  So I think I'm learning a lot of things on every hole today, definitely.   
 Q.  As an amateur, you rely a lot on yourself to read putts.  How much are you and your brother discussing things out there?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: He has the same distance as I do, so that's really helpful.  He actually can self correct me sometimes when I overclub or underclub.  So you get used to college golf just to play by yourself, so just try to figure it out and work together.   
 Q.  Who read the eagle putt on 11?  
ALEXIS VALENZUELA: She did, actually.   
 Q.  I was giving you the opportunity, brother.  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah, that one I read, actually.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to the most tomorrow?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Just keep enjoying it, just play my best, try my best, and it's so fun to play on a Sunday on a major.  Yeah, just try to have a good time with my younger brother.   
 Q.  Well, well done, you've all been an inspiration to a lot of us.  Enjoy the moment tomorrow?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Thank you very much.   
ALEXIS VALENZUELA: Thank you very much.   
 Q.  Great start today and then a little bit bad at the end.  Probably not the finish you were wanting.  Can you just talk about your round and what went through your head?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: Yeah, it was a solid round.  I had a good start.  Made a lot of good putts inside six feet, so that was really good.  I was very patient out there.  Obviously that eagle was great for the momentum.  Unfortunately, that double bogey, I guess that's why I'm still an amateur and not a pro.  We still make mistakes.   
But it happens.  I wasn't really bummed about it.  Just one bad hole in a major, it happens, and you just try to move on and stay patient.   
 Q.  Do you find it's hard to kind of block out the noise, the extra cameras out there, especially how low you've been going this week?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: No, I actually find it really fun.  It's a great opportunity to be out there.  Crowds have been so supportive and cheering.  No, I just try to enjoy it, actually.  It's super fun.   
 Q.  Just going into the final round tomorrow is there any number that you're looking to get to as far as goal-wise?  
ALBANE VALENZUELA: No, just play my game, and we'll see where it gets me.  But obviously trying to get under par again because that would be fun, but just trying to do the best I can, and we'll see what the number is.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT