BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 27, 2011
Max Mirnyi
Daniel Nestor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MIRNYI‑NESTOR/Fyrstenberg‑Matkowski
  7‑5, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel?   Are you tired after such hard matches and hard weeks?   
MAX MIRNYI:   Well, we feel great to have been able to win the tournament.   We're very excited to have done it without losing a match.   
We felt that we built confidence throughout the week because we escaped a few very close matches early on in the tournament.   
Today, towards the end of the match, I felt we both played pretty good.   So obviously very relieved to have won the tournament and excited.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to play together in the next year?   
MAX MIRNYI:   Yes.   We have plans to have a little break now, then start our circuit in Australia.   Looking forward to improve little things here and there and keep working.   
   
 Q.   It was a hard part of the season between Roland Garros and the US Open.   Why was it not such good results in this period?   
DANIEL NESTOR:   I mean, that's a tough question.   For whatever reason I think we got off our game a little bit.   Maybe I think the biggest weakness was not putting enough balls in play.   We were returning poorly, both of us.   
We serve well usually, but if we're not making any returns, it doesn't matter who we're playing against.   People can return our serves pretty well on any given day.   They're going to beat us if we're not returning their serves.   
I think that happened for a few months where we were quite inconsistent.   It's something that we thought about a lot before the fall season started and really made some adjustments.   We came out pretty strong in Asia.   
One thing we wanted to do after winning Shanghai was continue playing.   We didn't want to sit back and enjoy that win.   We wanted to continue playing.   We played some smaller tournaments and tried to get as prepared as possible for here.  
   
 Q.   Which match here was the hardest?  
DANIEL NESTOR:   Well, the first match and the third match.   The first match I thought we came out really well, but then kind of let our opponents back in it a couple times.   
It seemed like a match that we should have won a little more straightforward.   By the end we were lucky to win because our opponents had a pretty good lead in the tiebreaker.   
Then the third match, those guys played great, hit a couple fortunate shots, had us on the ropes.   We just hung in there.   It seemed like they got nervous a little bit and things turn around so fast.   Another match where we just hung in there.   They couldn't really put us away.   I thought maybe they were a little bit nervous.   
Then we turned it around at the end.   We played pretty solid.   
We played great in the semis.   Very tough on serve.   Today, you know, I think everyone was pretty nervous on the court at times.   But we're maybe a little bit more experienced than them in the big matches, showed at the key times.   
   
 Q.   You couldn't have put together a better first season.   How did it actually come together for you?   Are you pretty surprised?   
DANIEL NESTOR:   No.   I mean, we started pretty well in Australia, made the semis.   We won Memphis after that.   I don't think 'surprised' is the word.   I think we're very satisfied.   There was a little lapse there for a few months there in between the French Open and the Asia swing which we wanted to correct.   
I think we learned from it and we're doing things, you know, better.   We're learning from our mistakes.   One thing for us, I think it's important to keep playing.   I think we had that break after Wimbledon before Washington, and we came out like two guys that hadn't played tennis in a while in Washington.   
So I think little things we learn from putting more balls in play, as well, and staying aggressive at the same time.   We really worked out some kinks in Asia.   We're pretty professional.   We do the little things.   It carried over to here.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever think you'd win three out of four of these, three out of the last four years?  
DANIEL NESTOR:   No, I didn't really think about it.   I mean, obviously six weeks ago if you would have asked me if we would have won this, I would have been surprised.   But the way we've been playing in the fall, I wouldn't say surprised.   It's just one of those things.   
There's a lot of good teams here.   I think I told you before the tournament, our group is one of those groups where anything can happen.   Any one of the four teams could win the tournament.   Fortunately it was us.  
   
 Q.   What kind of tactical advantage do you get out of having a right‑hander and left‑hander on a doubles team?   Several of the teams in this tournament were set up that way.   
MAX MIRNYI:   Well, not only looking at this tournament, we're looking back with the Woodies McEnroe/Fleming.   Ultimately, this is what works best.   The Bryans for many years dominating with righty/lefty combination.   It's a strategy that you build, you know.   We see Bryans positioned on opposite ends than, say, the Woodies or McEnroe/Fleming were.   Whatever works best.   
But with having a lefty and righty serve every consecutive time, the opponents have to get used to the spins.   With lobbing it could also be a little bit tricky because you have to be farther away from the lines to get to their backhand.   
Well, as history shows, this is what works best.   So I'm fortunate to be part of a lefty/righty combination.   In the past that wasn't the case for me.   I always had the right‑handers, which were also good players.   But having a southpaw certainly complicates things for the opponents.   
   
 Q.   When you're practicing for a doubles match do you practice different patterns of play based on who you're going to be facing?  
MAX MIRNYI:   We're certainly aware of what needs to be done against who we're playing.   At the same time we know what our game revolves around.   There's no secret about big serving.   We have to be dominant, cover the net well.   
We're aware of two things.   One is our game, what needs to be done for us to play successful, and also a few little adjustments that we have to make per opponent‑to‑opponent basis.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT