ROGERS CUP
August 8, 2018
Daniel Nestor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LOPEZ-LOPEZ/Nestor-Pospisil
6-7, 6-2, 10-6
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I guess, Daniel, there's a lot of speculation about is this definitely it.  Is there any chance in Cincinnati?  Any chance of US Open?  I know Davis Cup is still a possibility.  But ATP-wise, is this it?
DANIEL NESTOR: I was planning on playing the next two.  I'm not sure.  It depends on wild cards and all that.  And definitely I was hoping to play Davis Cup as last match.  That was the plan all along.
Q. So that's the plan.  This is not officially the end.
DANIEL NESTOR: No.
Q. It is if you can't get into the other stuff, I guess.
DANIEL NESTOR: It's out of my control, but I would like to play Davis Cup as my last match.
Q. If you could, obviously a disappointing loss for you tonight.  But what was the atmosphere like out there?  Did you feel emotional and were you trying to control any of the situational emotions with just playing a tennis match?
DANIEL NESTOR: I pretty much got all of the emotions out in my speech on Sunday night, so I felt fine.
It's just pretty much what's been going on the last year, year and a half.  I mean, I thought we played okay.  Vasek played well.  I played pretty well.  They were just better.  And that pretty much sums up the last little while, and my opponents were just a little bit better.
Q. And the atmosphere?
DANIEL NESTOR: It was pretty good.  I mean, obviously there's a singles matches going on center court, but it was pretty good.  It's always fun playing here.
Q. On that final shot of the match after it hit the net, it looked like you kind of paused and were affected for a minute.  What was going through your head after that final shot?
DANIEL NESTOR: I should have been closer to the net, especially because he took the return late.  So I was a little bit mad at myself for being too far from the net and letting the ball dip a little lower than it should have.  So just mad at myself kind of thing.
Q. Do you think that people are expecting you to be more emotional or more sentimental about everything that's going on, maybe not knowing, you know, you as well and how you generally sort of handle things, or did you feel like you should be?
DANIEL NESTOR: I don't know.  I mean, I don't know what people are thinking.  But, yeah, I mean, I suppose.  But I don't know.  I can't change who I am.  And maybe one day it will sink in and all that.
Just right now, I mean, I'm still, you know, here to prepare myself to play Davis Cup.  And tonight I was ready.  I played three weeks of World Team tennis, and the plan was to play that just to make sure I stay in shape for this.
And I felt good out there.  Just, as I said, those guys were a little bit better, and I don't really have regrets.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT