ROGERS CUP MEN
August 13, 2010
Daniel Nestor
Nenad Zimonjic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







CERMAK-MERTINAK/Nestor-Zimonjic
  6-3, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Talk about today's match. Coming on strong at the end, but I guess they were just too much? 
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: It was definitely one of the worst starts we had of the match. I wasn't serving good at all, and they were coming with some good shots later on. 
 I thought, once we broke back, I thought we were back in the match, but then again, terrible game on my serve without winning a point. They definitely deserved to win the first set. 
 Second, I thought we had a lot of chances. We didn't take them, and at the end they won. I mean, well done to them, and hopefully we can pick it up for the next matches.

 Q. Do you feel a little extra pressure knowing this is Daniel's hometown and you'd like to help him do well here?
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: No, I don't, actually. I enjoy playing in front of nice, big crowds. I was very surprised that after playing late last night we were put to play at 11:00, first match on, which I thought we could play third match maybe after two singles where more people could come. And towards the second set there were a lot better crowd. 
 I was very disappointed, first of all, for Daniel, and then for myself, as well, because in my opinion, there was a little disrespect to come out and to play at 11:00, being the last Canadian in the tournament, playing for so many years for Davis Cup and being No. 1 in the world in doubles. So it's, in my opinion, very sad. 

 Q. Do you think that might be indicative of maybe the attention doubles receives sometimes by tournament directors? Maybe it's just not in the same class they think as singles? Do you think that might have played a part?
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: I don't think that played a part, really. Maybe was difficult to put -- they needed to put one of the matches at 11:00, but anyway, I think they could work it out a lot better to get a little better timing for a match. 
 We don't play too often at home. We played once in Serbia, which was obviously my home country, and then once a year we play here, and that's why -- I think at least those are the times that we could at least get a little more attention what I think we deserve. So that's all. 

 Q. Do you agree with some of your teammate's sentiments?
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, probably, but, you know, I don't want to make excuses, you know. We could have played better. There's several things we can improve, and hopefully by the US Open we'll be on top of our game. That's the biggest goal. I'd rather win there than here, so... 

 Q. Your partner explained that he was disappointed. What are some of the emotions that are going through your head right now after the loss?
 DANIEL NESTOR: Just upset that didn't play well, and, you know, pretty much that's it. There's different things we can do, and, you know, just frustrating when you don't play well in front of your home crowd. 
 It's always a nice tournament and one that I look forward to, and I would have liked to have played better.

 Q. You have done so much for this country in terms of representing on the Davis Cup, and you've won a gold medal for Canada. Obviously you've won every Grand Slam in the doubles circuit. Do you sometimes think you don't get the recognition among Canadian athletes that others do?
 DANIEL NESTOR: I don't know. I mean, sometimes perhaps. But, you know, that's how it is with doubles. You know, we don't get that much TV exposure. That's the biggest thing. If more matches were on TV, people would take more note of it.

 Q. As Mike said, Olympic gold, Grand Slam titles, you're No. 1 in the world, what keeps you going? What else is there to do? You've had so much success. How do you keep going? How much longer do you want to go?
 DANIEL NESTOR: I mean, it's hard to tell. Right now we're on top, and, you know, I'm a competitive person. You know, I'd like to win more Grand Slams. I'll pretty much try and win as many Grand Slams as I can for the rest of my career.

 Q. Before the tournament you said that you hate having a lot of time off, and that's what you've had between Wimbledon and now. I know you played in Washington, but do you think that time off is one of the contributors to your performance in Washington and now in Toronto?
 DANIEL NESTOR: Probably in Washington and yesterday's match again we were, you know, not playing with confidence, but then we pulled it out, which was a good sign. And then today, you know, again, we didn't play with much confidence, so, yeah, probably you're right about that. 
 You know, we're always a team that thrives on playing a lot of matches. Hopefully we can, you know, get a few matches in Washington [sic] leading into the Open. 

 Q. As a further question to the motivation, like what else motivates you, have you set maybe an end date in your mind as to when you think you might stop playing competitively doubles?
 DANIEL NESTOR: No, not really. I mean, right now we're on top, so it's hard to tell. I don't feel physically any different than I did, you know, five, six years ago just playing doubles. 
 I think doubles is a lot easier on the body, and you can get away with, you know, being a little bit older, I think. For me, maybe I'm fortunate, you know, to feel the way I do, but I don't feel, you know, like I want to stop. I feel like I'm playing well still and at the highest level and I enjoy it. I'm competitive, and I want to keep winning. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT