BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 26, 2009
Daniel Nestor
Nenad Zimonjic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







NESTOR-ZIMONJIC/Bhupathi-Knowles
  6-4, 7-6

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Is that the match you really wanted to have played a couple of days ago? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: Serving-wise, for sure. We served great, especially Nenad. We made some returns at key times. I still think we missed a lot of returns that were on our racquets. 
 They served well most of the time. Even when the ball was on our racquet, we've got to make more returns. 
 But, as you said, it's great to win. It's a nice way to finish the year. These guys were playing great. They won the group. Hopefully we can continue like this next year, have a similar year again. 

 Q. How do you approach waiting to see what happens by the weekend for the No. 1? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: How do I approach it? I don't really approach it any differently than how we would approach most times with time off. I don't really pay attention. 
 I'll check the scores. That's it. I'm not going to watch the matches.

 Q. So you'll be fine? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: I'll be fine tomorrow, yeah. 

 Q. Do you think it's better to play in London because here they support the doubles? 
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: Definitely for all the players. It's much better if we play in the places where there's a lot of crowd, a lot of people watching. I think this is a great setup to start with doubles, finish with the singles. Don't get me wrong, the event in Shanghai was unbelievable, organized everything great, but it's sometimes sad that you have matches like you have even in singles and it's half empty. 
 That's why it's, again, a little more disappointment that we're not still in, because it's a great venue, unbelievable stadium. 

 Q. The balance of the year is great. You will go on? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yes, it was a great year, and we hope to have similar success next year. Hopefully a little more consistency. We won a lot of tournaments, but we lost a lot of first-round matches. We'd like to be a little more consistent and win every tournament we play. 

 Q. Playing basically the same schedule in January? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yes, Doha, Sydney, Melbourne.

 Q. Rotterdam? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: Rotterdam, Dubai, Indian Wells, Miami, Delray. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT