BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 24, 2009
Daniel Nestor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







CERMAK-MERTINAK/Nestor-Zimonjic
  6-3, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. You're out for sure? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yes.

 Q. What went wrong this week? Obviously the worst possible timing. 
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, it's hard to say. I mean, obviously we're not returning that well. We're not putting many balls in play when our opponents are serving. We have to give some credit to our opponents, too. They're serving pretty well. 
 You know, Nenad and I guess are pretty similar players, when we loses a little bit of timing on the return, then we're not making any. They're holding serve easily. Then one game each set, you know, they string a couple of good shots together, and maybe a little bit lucky, too, with some net cords.

 Q. You have had some good runs the last couple of years. How disappointing is it to not be able to pull this one in the second time possibly, get to the semis, try to defend the title? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, for sure it's disappointing. You know, we had high hopes coming in here. We were playing well. We were the No. 1 team. You know, it's frustrating to lose to teams that we've been beating. 
 But that's part of life, you know. Had a lot of success this year. This is a downtime. So we got to, you know, bounce back, try to finish strong in the last match and carry that into next year. 

 Q. Is the No. 1 totally out of your hands now? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, I think so. I don't really know exactly how it works. 

 Q. Do you care? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: Well, of course, I'd like to finish No. 1. I'm not going to sit and watch the Bryans match from start to finish. 

 Q. Would that make up at all for the disappointment of this tournament? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, I don't want to wish them any bad luck. They're great players. They deserve to have success and win. If they happen to not achieve their goal, then, yeah, it would be great for us to finish No. 1. 
 Whatever happens to them, we have to deal with. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT