WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 23, 2009
Daniel Nestor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 NESTOR-ZIMONJIC/Bryan-Bryan
  3-6, 7-6, 15-13 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What were you thinking when you came back and served five match points plus two more to finally get it done?  
 DANIEL NESTOR: I thought when we got from 9-6 to 9-7 we were back in it. I thought 9-4, you know, just play it out and see what happens.   
 But once we won that 9-6 point, I realized, you know, we win this point on Bob's serve and then Nenad is serving two serves, so we're right back in it. It was just see-saw battle.   
 They played well in the first. They kind of caught us off guard switching sides, playing different sides. Then they did it again and switched back at the tiebreaker, which was interesting, you know. It's good tactics. Definitely caught us off guard. We'll be ready for it next time.  
 And, yeah, we feel fortunate. I thought it was a great match. But, you know, they put a lot of pressure on us. We hung in there and played well. At the end of day, we got the win. Probably maybe undeservingly, but whatever.  
  
  Q. Four times you've beaten them in four big finals this year.   
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Do you think you've got the wood on them at the moment?  
 DANIEL NESTOR: You know, for sure we played great against them. Wimbledon, you know, both teams played really well. I thought we played a little bit better that day, and perhaps they played a little bit better today. We ended up winning, so that might have something to do with the new scoring, whatever.   
 But, you know, we got the win. We're having a great year. It's probably -- they're unaccustomed to being No. 2. Hopefully we can maintain the lead and get to Shanghai with everything on the line again.  
  
  Q. Much as it might be more comfortable to win these at one and two, I suspect this is the kind of win that's gonna be a lot sweeter to think back on tonight and maybe for a while. Have you come back this from this kind of hole?  
 DANIEL NESTOR: No, no. It's a great win just because we hung in there, even after the first set. We really got dominated. We hung in there in the second set. We started paying very well in the second. Both teams played very well pretty much from the second set on.   
 You know, US Open is different scoring, so it's not gonna be this shortened version. It's gonna be -- you're gonna have to really earn it, and the better team is for sure gonna win on those days. We gotta make sure we're ready to play from the beginning.  
  
  Q. What kind of crowd support would you say you had this week?   
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, for sure. I thought a lot people stuck around. It was a pretty good crowd. The Bryans definitely attract a lot of people. We're starting to make a name for ourselves. Doubles is always well-covered and well-attended in the States. We love playing here. We get not quite the same support as the Bryans, but we feel appreciated too.   
 We love this time of year. Especially for me, I grew up on hardcourts. It's close to where I grew up in Toronto. US Open is the biggest tournament of the summer, and we're playing well going into it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT