TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 16, 2008
Daniel Nestor
Nenad Zimonjic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  NESTOR-ZIMONJIC/Bryan-Bryan  
7-6, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Daniel, could you talk about winning it twice in a row with two different guys, what that might or might not mean.   
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, I mean, it's hard to imagine. It's a great feeling. Have had a great year. At times a little inconsistent. But when we've played well, we've been very tough to beat. We really get on a roll. You know, I think when we're playing well, we're deserving of the No. 1 ranking.   
 It's only a matter of, you know, being a little more consistent for next year, and hopefully we'll have even more success. As I said, you know, don't want to take away anything from the Bryans. Bob really is nursing an injury. You know, he's not serving like his usual self. So, you know, hopefully for him he gets healthy again and, you know, we can keep battling for No. 1.   
 There are a few other teams that are going to make some noise next year, like they did this year. It's exciting going into next year. I think it's always exciting when you have a change. Now the Bryans didn't finish the year No. 1; Federer didn't finish No. 1. So, you know, tennis obviously will be that much more exciting next year.   
  
  Q. Did you go into the final weekend, as it were, with nerves, no nerves, or did you kind of keep it smooth, look at it as another match, here's what happened?   
 DANIEL NESTOR: There's always nerves. But I think, for me especially, once I get a few matches under my belt, you know, especially some wins, it comes a lot easier. I play better as the tournament goes on. I think that's normal.   
 Nenad, same thing. He played much better as the tournament went on, especially the last two matches he played unbelievable. You know, we came through when we had to, and it's a good sign.   
  
  Q. Do you think this event had more meaning because it was for the No. 1 spot? Did that add something to the pot for you guys?   
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, for sure. I mean, it's the first time in a long time that, you know, doubles has been decided, the No. 1 ranking has been decided in the last match. I don't know when that's happened in the past. For doubles, which always takes a little bit of a backseat, that's great for us.   
 You know, I'm sure we're getting more exposure than we're used to, and hopefully that will continue. I think doubles has a lot to offer. We had some great points out there today. You know, if marketed properly, doubles can really stand out.   
 I think, as I said, next year's going to be very exciting. We have a lot of great teams. More singles guys are playing doubles. Teams likes Cuevas and Horna are doing good things for singles players. The game might be changing a little bit. The guys that are singles players might be able to compete by playing from the baseline, which makes the rallies longer and more exciting.   
  
  Q. Nenad, would you like to add something to how you feel about the win, teaming with Daniel, or whatever?   
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: First of all, I would like to thank Danny for playing. It definitely wasn't easy decision for him after having such a successful partnership with Mark. And, you know, we proved that we could play well. You know, obviously this is the best season I've ever had. Winning Wimbledon, playing finals at the French, and coming here as second seed, you know, fighting for the first spot.   
 As I mentioned on the court, both Daniel and Bryans, they won more than 50 titles, and I'm only now at 23rd. For me it was also the first time to compete to be No. 1, so it's always very special.   
 They've been there; they've done that. It's always nice to repeat it. But I hope I can achieve at least half what they achieved in their careers. Looking forward for the next season.   
 Before coming here, as you mentioned, you know, you calculate, you try to see if there is a chance, you know, to become No. 1. Obviously, you're aware of it. But then you have to prove that on the court. You have to bring your best, which I think we did, especially after the first match. I was so happy the way we played, how everything turned.   
 I have to mention that I was really lucky to be here, you know, because I had some problem with the passport. It was a big mess coming over on the day when I was supposed to travel. We were on the phone. I told Danny, "You know, please wait. He was already leaving. It could have happened that he was coming here, arriving, and I wasn't able to come.   
 Happy enough to find the passport at the customs in the States. Then I arrived here. Obviously this is a wonderful experience. I'll never forget this for sure.   
 Again, like I said, it would be nice to continue next year, to win some other Grand Slams. Danny won anything that you can win in doubles, you know, all the Grand Slams, Masters Cup. This is actually the second time he won Masters Cup, so it would be nice that he wins all other tournaments second time, and for me to do it the first time (smiling).   
 That's it.   
  
  Q. You lost your passport?   
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: It happened that they forgot to give it to me back at the customs. You know, they were searching through my bags.   
 DANIEL NESTOR: He could have asked for it back, but...   
  
  Q. Where was that?   
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: In Miami. Because after Paris I was going to Miami just for a couple of days.   
  
  Q. Is it something special to win the last tournament here in Shanghai? What do you expect from the next Masters Cup? Do you think the atmosphere could be quite the same as here in Shanghai?   
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: I have to say it's great atmosphere to play in front of the full crowd. It's one of the nicest stadiums that we have for tennis, that's for sure. It's sometimes sad when you play on the big stadium when there are not too many people watching. But that wasn't the case in the finals here.   
 So it meant a lot really. It was that much special to play for pretty much everything at this last match. You know, to win the Masters Cup for me for the first time, for Danny to defend the title, to play against the Bryans, who have been dominating the doubles last four, five years, and to fight for No. 1 spot. You couldn't ask for more as an athlete, you know, to manage to win this.   
  
  Q. Except the fact that Daniel is such a great player, as you said, you finally play with a lefty. It's been years now. Do you think it does make a difference?   
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: I think it's very difficult for the opponents when both guys are serving good. One is serving with one type of rotation, and then it's coming from the completely other, you know, direction from the other. So it's never easy to get a rhythm.   
 The most important is that you can rely on your partner. You know that he's gonna be there for you, that you don't have to do everything on your own, which is important in the key situations. You know, even if we both miss one or two shots, we know we can still rely on each other. That's what I think brought us all this success this year.   
  
  Q. How close a call was it on the passport thing time-wise of coming or not coming, Danny?   
 DANIEL NESTOR: Well, it was Tuesday we were both supposed to leave. You know, he called me a few hours before my flight and he didn't know where his passport was. I didn't know whether I should board the plane.  
  
  Q. You're in Canada?   
 DANIEL NESTOR: I'm in Canada getting ready to board the plane, not knowing when he's going to come. I didn't want to get there five days before he showed up or come and he not be able to come, which is a possibility if he doesn't recover his passport.   
 But, you know, the way he told the story it was someone else's fault, but I don't know whether I believe that or not (smiling).   
 Anyways, it all worked out in the end. You know, it's a good story for the future. We can laugh at it.   
  
  Q. You did or didn't leave on Tuesday?   
 DANIEL NESTOR: I left on Tuesday. I just hoped for the best.   
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: Actually, he got upgraded. That's why he left.   
  
  Q. You arrived when?   
 DANIEL NESTOR: I found out he had his passport before I left, which was nice, but I was leaving anyway.   
  
  Q. Were you at all surprised at not how easily you won the match, were you surprised to get those last two breaks in the final set?   
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, a little bit. I think the first set was tight. We got down a break. I didn't play a good service game to start, but then we hit a couple good returns to get it right back. Then Nenad hit some unbelievable shots in the tiebreaker. Obviously, that was the turning point, getting through that set.   
 You know, as I said, usually Bob's pretty much unreturnable. But, you know, now with his injury a little bit, we got a lot more looks. We broke 'em twice. And Mike, you know, we always have a better chance of breaking him. You know, we actually hit some great returns in that last game. That's the only time we really had break points on his serve.   
 So, yeah, for sure, it was a little bit surprising to win the second set like that. But, you know, there's so many times when we've played against them and, you know, they've been dominant, too. So it's nice to get it back.   
  
  Q. This is the first time you have teamed up with each other and you achieve huge success. If you are permitted to only say one sentence to each other after the winning, what would you say to each other? If you're only permitted to say one sentence to each other after the winning, what would you say to each other?   
 DANIEL NESTOR: I'm so happy I have six weeks away from you right now (laughter).   
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: And then he said also, "Don't be satisfied; this means nothing. We have to come out strong."   
 DANIEL NESTOR: No, what's he talking about (laughter).   
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: This is just the beginning; get ready for Australia (laughter).   
 DANIEL NESTOR: Don't relax now.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT