TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 15, 2008
Daniel Nestor
Nenad Zimonjic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  NESTOR-ZIMONJIC/Cuevas-Horna
6-1, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. Could you guys talk about the race for No. 1? Obviously it depends on the next match, but how exciting would it be to pull that off in your first year together?
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: For this year, I have to say I had a lot of nice experiences on the court and off the court. First of all, to begin playing with Danny was a huge thing for me, and I was looking forward to that. 
 Season didn't start great. We turned it around and made my biggest dream, which is to win Grand Slam, and especially the favorite one, at Wimbledon. 
 We played the finals at the French Open, and let's say after Cincinnati we kind of slowed down a little bit. After Wimbledon we were expecting, you know, after great results and after playing good, looking forward to indoor season. 
 I was hoping -- I don't know, Danny can say for himself. I was hoping we'll have a chance to finish No. 1. Unfortunately we were not playing good, so there were a lot of ups and downs. 
 Now to come here at one of the prestigious events that we have with the best teams playing, except Erlich and Ram unfortunately. To play the way we've been playing, especially after the first match, it's biggest achievement. You know, I may be more into discounting, you know, what we have to do to get No. 1. 
 Danny, in the past he finished twice, I believe as No. 1. He was No. 1 in the world during this year as individual. And just the reason, because he played couple of different tournaments with different partners. I'll get the chance, if we finish as No. 1, to get to No. 1 position, which is obviously another big goal and another big dream for me. 
 So I'm really grateful. All this I couldn't do obviously without a great partner like Danny is. And from the support we were getting from Marty Laurendeau and from my fitness coach. 
 So it would be ideal if you ask me from, you know, an athlete's point of view to play the Bryans in the finals, and whoever wins that match to decide who's going to be No. 1. 
 But we'll have to see what's going to happen after they finish the match. 

 Q. Were you surprised at how easy that match might have been compared to the French Open final?
 DANIEL NESTOR: Yeah, for sure we didn't expect to win that easily, but, you know, we played great and we're deserving to go through to the final. We've been playing great, as Nenad said, for three straight matches. Maybe didn't play our best in the first match. But like he said, that's normal for not having played well coming in here. 
 Yeah, French Open is totally different conditions. I mean, we're playing through rain in that match on clay, their favorite surface. It was very heavy and slow. We were still hoping to win that match obviously, but, you know, these are more suitable conditions for us. 

 Q. Everybody's got a long history with the Bryans. What would you both be looking for were it to be the final against the Bryans? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: What's the question? 

 Q. Everybody's played the Bryans so many times between wither your team or yourself and someone else. How do you reckon the final will shape up?
 DANIEL NESTOR: It's tough to predict. First of all they're not there yet. As Nenad said, it would be ideal if they were considering what's at stake. They've had the best of everyone in the last five years. They've been the best team on and off for five years now. You know, they're going to go down as one of greats of all-time, and, you know, they've done a lot for doubles. 
 We went through some tough times a couple years ago, and they were pretty much the face of doubles. They were the most entertaining team to watch. They bring crowds in and make it a little more popular. We try and emulate them a little bit when we're on the court and show -- if we show their kind of energy then doubles is great. 
 You know, it's always a great opportunity to play the best team in the last match of the year for the No. 1 position, so I think it'll be very exciting if we play them. 

 Q. Were you looking to do for some kind of revenge after the Paris final?
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: Not kind of revenge, but it's always nice to play somebody that you lost against, like you said. But for us, this was much bigger thing to be in the finals at the end the year in the Masters Cup, to get a chance to fight for No. 1 spot. 
 Obviously it's really tough to lose matches in the finals, which was very difficult for us at the French. They wished us luck, you know, at Wimbledon, and also we said maybe we'll have another chance at Wimbledon; it happened. 
 So hopefully we can get a title here as a team. I played here with Paes in the final 2005; Danny won it last year with his long-time partner Mark Knowles, so it would be a great way to finish the season. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on the Davis Cup final? Who will win? 
 DANIEL NESTOR: I predict Argentina 3-1.
 NENAD ZIMONJIC: I think Argentina has a great chance to win for the first time. It's going to be huge for them. David was playing awesome at the end of the season, and Del Potro as well. 
 So I think they have a big advantage now that Nadal is not going to be playing. Still, I think it's going to be a very difficult match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT