TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 13, 2006
Mark Knowles
Daniel Nestor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  (Through translation.)  You guys have been playing together against your opponents for probably eight years now.  Your partnership is so solid and strong.  Others might change and switch partners and everything.  What has made you stick together over these years?   
 DANIEL NESTOR:  Well, I think obviously we've had a lot of success together right from the beginning, which always helps a relationship.  When you're winning, things are usually better than when you're not doing so well.  I think a lot of the teams - successful teams - that split, you know, sometimes guys are retiring, too, so I think you have to take that into consideration.   
 But, you know, Mark and I get along pretty much on and off the court.  We have a, you know, pretty unique relationship.  Some of the other teams are more business-type relationships.  But, you know, we're fortunate in that regard, and I think that's, you know, credited to our success.   
  
  Q.  Is that how you wanted to play after the let-down in Paris, as it were, getting ready for what's really important, this one?   
 DANIEL NESTOR:  Yeah.  Obviously, that's, you know, the best kind of start we could have hoped for.  You know, we played very solid especially considering, you know, our results here last year.  We really wanted to, you know, have a second chance and start well.   
 I don't think Paris was really a let-down.  We played a solid match that day I think.  We lost to the eventual champions.   
 We've been playing very well throughout the fall.  We've played a lot of matches, which helps.  I think we're one of the teams that the more we play, the better we play.  Obviously, matches do help any team, you know.  You know, it's carried over here.   
  
  Q.  Both of you are interested in charity affairs.  Please say something about it.  You raise a lot of money.   
 MARK KNOWLES:  Both Daniel and I have successful charity events.  I have mine in the Bahamas, and he has his in Toronto.   
 You know, it's something -- we've been fortunate enough to play the game of tennis and be very successful.  You know, it's kind of elevated our profile in our respective countries.  You know, both of us get a lot of enjoyment in giving back to the communities.  I know a lot of the money from my charity goes to the local children - that's something that I want to help - and I think Daniel's goes to a children's hospital, as well.   
 It's important for us.  We have a position in life and, you know, we try to give back as much as we can.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT