RCA TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 14, 1996
Daniel Nestor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What were you thinking when all this was going on out there, when he was having the discussions --

DANIEL NESTOR:  I basically didn't really see what happened.  I mean, I saw him fire the ball into the crowd and I just was focusing on my own thing and getting ready to serve the next game.  I was just trying to stay focused.  I was really surprised when he got defaulted, so.....


Q. He made the comment that you got on the phone with Mark Miles and said "I want to play."  I mean, is that accurate?  I mean, what have you been doing --

DANIEL NESTOR:  Yeah, I wanted to play.  I didn't want to end the match like that.  I didn't feel like I deserved to win, I mean, he is was basically throwing the match.  I might have got up a little bit in the second set, but by no means was I going to win that match.  I wanted to go out there and just see what happens.  Right now, I don't feel like I won the match. 


Q. Can you see the possibility that -- I mean, he is -- his point is that he said this before and gotten away with it,  but that maybe that is not the way somebody should behave on court and it might have -- should have enforced the rules prior, but they decided tonight?

DANIEL NESTOR:  Well, I mean, I don't really know what he said after he hit the ball out of the stadium, so.....


Q. He told us it was obviously a few choice words. 

DANIEL NESTOR:  I don't know how it happened or when he said it, or as far as -- right after he hit the ball or what.  I mean, I have seen things happen like that in other sports - I don't know. 


Q. How is this going to affect your concentration for doubles and singles?

DANIEL NESTOR:  I don't know how the crowd is going to react when I go on the court tomorrow, whether they are going to be too happy to see me playing.


Q. You said it has happened thousands or 10,000 times before.  Does this happen very much and with how many other players does this type of thing happen where the player gets away with it in your experience?

DANIEL NESTOR:  I just see it in other sports.


Q. I mean, tennis, though. 

DANIEL NESTOR:  You don't see it happen too often.  Every now and again people get mad.  I mean, it has never happened to me.  I had haven't been on the court where something like that happened.  I am inexperienced with the  whole situation.


Q. What was Mark Mile's response to your saying you prefer to play out there?

DANIEL NESTOR:  To be honest, I didn't actually speak with him.  I told Andre I wanted to play.  I told the tournament director.  I told the ATP that I wanted to play, and I mean, I felt bad about the whole situation; thought the best thing was to go out there and finish the match, but I don't know what the rules are exactly.  I don't know how it all happened, so...


Q. In your opinion, as a player, if someone hits a ball and then curses, would you consider that to be one incident or would you consider that now to be an escalating a second outburst?

DANIEL NESTOR:  I have never really come across like that happening, so.....  I haven't done that before, so I mean, it is basically up to the umpire how he feels and what the rule is. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT