DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 28, 2015
Rohan Bopanna
Daniel Nestor
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 BOPANNA‑NESTOR/Qureshi‑Zimonjic
  6‑4, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us about the color that you're wearing?   
ROHAN BOPANNA:   We just had the match.   Sometimes it's hard, you know, when you're playing with different brands to get the right color, so luckily we had these colors.   We said, Well, let's go with that.  
DANIEL NESTOR:   Older collection.  
   
 Q.   Have you been playing with that...   
ROHAN BOPANNA:   We played in Rotterdam, as well.  
   
 Q.   And Australia?  
ROHAN BOPANNA:   No.   Australia we played with white.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Just your reflections, both of you, on the match.   What do you think you did well or what they didn't do terribly well?  
ROHAN BOPANNA:   I think we played a really solid match.   I think, you know, we stuck to our strengths playing aggressive tennis, and, you know, a lot of high percentage of first serves which I think was the key.   Put a lot of pressure on them.  
You know, once we got the break in the first set, I think the momentum really shifted to our side.   Once we got the second break in the second set, I think they were already‑‑ you know, their body language was already down, and we just had to make sure we had to keep our game high.  
   
 Q.   I think mentally, also.   I mean, both of you, it also helped because you are knowing the other person.   
DANIEL NESTOR:   Well, I think it goes both ways.   Obviously they know us, too.   In all of these doubles matches, it really comes down to a couple points and who starts a little bit better and who gets ahead.   
Fortunately we did that today.   If they would have got an early break, it would have been a totally different match.  
Doubles always comes down to a couple points.   Generally closer matches than singles.   Today we were fortunate.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the season, both of you, what you have planned?  
DANIEL NESTOR:   Well, we play the same schedule pretty much every year, the Masters, 500s and Slams, and, you know, we have had a good start.   We have beaten a lot of good teams, which is good.   Obviously our goal is to win the Majors, Grand Slams.   
You know, the next few weeks is big tournaments.   We have to really be ready.   But, you know, if we play like we are playing and stay positive and keep working hard, we should be all right.  
   
 Q.   What do you think has worked with your partnership?   
DANIEL NESTOR:   Just understanding what we need to do, you know, sticking to our game style.   I think, you know, we are at our best when we are not worrying what's happening on the other side of the net and we are playing our shots, which are generally, you know, aggressive shots.   
You know, if we are executing, I think we can beat anyone.   Obviously if, you know, our first‑serve percentage drops or we are not making returns, then we are a totally different team.   But, you know, that's not something we can always control.  
But, you know, as I said, we focus on what we do well and play our game.   That's the most important thing.  
ROHAN BOPANNA:   Yeah, I think Danny summed it up pretty well there.   Like again, I said we are aggressive team, so when we are attacking and playing our strengths, it's very hard to play against us, because we are putting a lot of pressure on them constantly.  
I think that makes us a more dangerous team.   So far it's been working.   Hopefully we can continue this same style of tennis.  
   
 Q.   Daniel, your first title here was in 2002, 13 years ago.   How have things changed for you?   Long years between.   
DANIEL NESTOR:   Well, I mean, the game has changed.   Obviously everyone is more athletic.   Things are a little bit slower as far as courts and balls.  
You know, I think also doubles is more competitive than ever as far as, you know, guys ranked 1 through 100.   You know, I think it's much deeper than it's ever been.   
So each match is close.   You've got to be ready for every match.   You know, at this stage I'm trying to use my experience and get by.   I can't really overpower anyone anymore (smiling).   That's why I choose the young powerful partners (smiling).  
   
 Q.   A lot of the younger players are dominating the doubles?  
DANIEL NESTOR:   Well, dominating?   I'm not sure.   But, you know, we play our old‑school traditional brand of doubles, which still is going to win if we execute well.  
A lot of the younger guys are great athletes hitting huge from the baseline and returning well and serving well.   Not necessarily the best volleyers, but, you know, when they are on they are very dangerous.  
   
 Q.   Rohan, three titles here with three different partners.   Trying to emulate Mahesh Bhupathi over there, five titles?   
ROHAN BOPANNA:   Hopefully, you know, if I can get to five titles that would be great, you know, with the same partner or different partners, but it's not easy, you know, switching partners and playing.   
But for some reason I really like playing here.   The crowd support has been fantastic.   It feels like playing at home, a lot of Indians who come out and support me here.  
And the tournament is run so well.   I mean, they make it so comfortable for the players.   I think that keeps you relaxed, and I think you just focus on your tennis and play and not worry about the rest of the things.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT