NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES v CARDINALS
October 3, 2000
Brit Reames
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  When did you find out that you would be on this roster?
 
BRITT REAMES:  I got here about 8:30 this morning, about 8:45, Tony called me in his office and said, you are active.  I said, let's get it on. 
 
Q.  Any difference in the situation that faced you when you came into the game?
 
BRITT REAMES:  I was actually pretty calm, once you get that first pitch over with, then it is just like, it is just like you have been out there your whole life.  This is what you work up to right here. 
 
Q.  Any difference coming in in relief as opposed to having a few days to prepare for a start?
 
BRITT REAMES:  You have to get ready a little quicker, you have to have all three pitches working, how many pitches you have, at that time.  It is just -- you have a job to do, no matter if you're the starter or reliever, you have to get the job done. 
 
Q.  Did Tony or Dave tell you before the game how you might be used in this series?
 
BRITT REAMES:  Dave told me this morning that, he said, be ready from the first pitch to the last pitch.  That is what he told me.  That pretty much said I could be used at any time. 
 
Q.  Were you surprised that you ended up pitching late instead of early?
 
BRITT REAMES:  I got up once, I guess when James' at-bat came up.  They went ahead and let him take his at-bat.  I was ready any time.  I wasn't surprised, I was just, you know, trying to go out there and pitch. 
 
Q.  Is it more pressure pitching late in the game than if you had come in say when Mike came in?
 
BRITT REAMES:  Sure, there is a little pressure on you when you have two base runners on with no outs.  I was lucky enough to get those guys out today, without giving up any runs, as a reliever, that is what you try to do.  You try to prevent guys from scoring, when you come in with nobody on, you try not to let them score.  Either way, you try not to let them score. 
 
Q.  It was an odd game for the pitchers on both sides.  Do you think about that at all when you come in?
 
BRITT REAMES:  Well, you know, our starter went two or three innings today, you have to tip your hat to our bullpen. Jesse James, he came in and did a great job.  Our hitters scored some runs early.  And, you know, our bullpen held them down. Just, overall, just a team-effort win today. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT