THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 3, 2018
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/K. Nara
6-2, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What was today like?  How did it feel getting up and preparing for the match?  Were the nerves more or less than what a first round Grand Slam used to feel like for you?
SIMONA HALEP: Was the same.  Normal.  Nothing special.  But I had the nerves.  I was actually a little bit worried because I didn't have a match on grass court.  But still I was thinking that I played many matches on clay court season.  So I was kind of ready.
But still the nerves were there.  I hope always will be there.
Q. You said on your BBC interview that you had faith you could make the adjustments in the match if you needed to.  What adjustments did you make in the match?
SIMONA HALEP: Well, yeah, I said that I was ready before the match that I will be thinking that I be able to adjust myself if something is going wrong on court.
But I think I played okay.  I played a good match.  It was the first round of the tournament, which is the toughest normally.
I knew how she's playing because I watched a little bit.  I remember that I played against her few years ago.  So it was a good start, in my opinion.  I had nothing to adjust.  Everything was smooth.
Q. Did the reception by the crowd feel any different?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I had nice welcome when I entered on court.  Actually we entered both together, so was for both of us, not just for me.  But I took it more for me (smiling).
To get the confidence and to get the love, always it's nice to step on that court.  It's the most beautiful court in the world.  It was special and I'm happy I could win.
Q. You are playing Zheng Saisai next.  How much do you know her and her game?
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I don't really know now in this moment because I didn't look the draw against who I played in the second round.  It was really tough to get ready for the first one.  So now I will have day off and tomorrow before the practice I will think about the next opponent.
But for sure is going to be fast.  On this court, you never know what is going to happen.  I have just to be ready on my legs, to be strong.
Q. Coming into Wimbledon this year with a Grand Slam title, does that kind of give you extra confidence or does that add to the pressure?
SIMONA HALEP: No, I don't feel pressure at all.  It's a nice actually pressure.  I have expectations for myself, but not from the result.  As I said, you never know on grass.  Everyone can win.
I feel okay.  I feel ready to play matches.  I feel ready to fight.  If I do these things, I feel like I have a good chance to win few more matches.
Q. The lucky dress you were wearing during the Australian Open, do you still have it?
SIMONA HALEP: Yes, I still have them.  I did many outfits, so I have a lot home.  I keep them.
Q. Do you consider it as a very lucky one for you?
SIMONA HALEP: Of course, because I played the final of Grand Slam there.  I won a title, actually doubles and singles.  It was a lucky dress.
Q. Will you ask Nike to maybe get involved with you wearing more red in the future?  Because in Chinese culture, we consider red as lucky color.
SIMONA HALEP: Really?  I didn't know that.
Well, maybe I will have a conversation with Nike, but I'm not deciding the color of my outfit or the outfit.  They are the bosses.  I will wear what they give me.  But, yeah, I will tell them maybe in the future.
Q. In terms of the preparation, was anything about the last week kind of tricky or complicated in terms of getting ready for the tournament or was it pretty smooth?
SIMONA HALEP: It was tough at the beginning.  Also I had some pain with my Achilles, at my Achilles.  Was not easy to train.
I was relaxed.  Honestly, I was relaxed when I came here.  I didn't push myself.  I didn't put pressure on myself that I have to be ready.  I said that I have just to do my practices.  A day before the tournament, for sure I will be ready.
It was smooth in the last days.  I felt ready today.
Q. Are you following the World Cup?  Do you have anyone you're rooting for?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, my favorite was Argentina, but they lost.  So now I'm not sure.  But tonight is playing England with Colombia.  I said 2-1 England, not because I'm in England.  I said because I really believe that (smiling).
Q. Four of the top eight seeds lost in the first round.  Does that surprise you at all?
SIMONA HALEP: I don't know who lost honestly.  I really say that many times, I really believe it:  here on grass, you don't know what to expect.  Some players can play best tennis.  The top players can play a little bit less.  You never know.
I think every match is important here.  Every match can go either way.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT