ROGERS CUP
August 10, 2018
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/C. Garcia   
7-5, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you describe what happened, the difference from the first to the second set, that led you to win the second set that easily?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, yeah, the first set was really tough.  I was down 5-4.  I just didn't give up at all in the first set.  After I took it, I felt more confident.  I felt that I'm moving better, I'm playing better, stronger.  She went a little bit down with energy after she lost that set.   
Just I think I was stronger in the second set.   
 Q.  How were you feeling energy-wise?  You didn't seem tired at all, even though you played quite a lot yesterday.  How did you feel when you woke up this morning, and when you stepped on the court?  
SIMONA HALEP: Definitely not good.  Because if you look at the schedule, I think I'm the only one person and player who has the worst schedule during the week.  I think this happens almost every tournament.   
I saw that tomorrow I play at 1:00.  So I think WTA is a little bit upset with me because they always try to put me down, I can say, in the schedule.  And I'm very upset about this.   
Tomorrow I'm going to go on court and I will try to give my best.  I have nothing to lose.  It's a semifinal.  So I just go there and I try to play.   
 Q.  Why do you think they would do that?  
SIMONA HALEP: If you check the schedule this tournament, and many other tournaments, you can see what is right and what is not right.   
 Q.  I do see that.  I'm curious why you think they would do that to you.  
SIMONA HALEP: My opponent has already six hours at the hotel resting, and I just finished the match and I'm doing now these things.  I'll be very late again.  Yesterday I played two matches.   
I feel like today I should have played second match in the night, and also tomorrow at 6, not at 1.  This is my opinion, and I think I'm right.   
 Q.  Is there an issue with you and the WTA for them to do that on purpose?  
SIMONA HALEP: I don't know.  You have to ask them.  I have no problems with anyone.   
 Q.  As the No. 1 in the world, you don't have anything to say on that?  You can say nothing?  
SIMONA HALEP: This tournament I have nothing to say, and no one asked me.   
 Q.  In general, after you win a Grand Slam, there must be so many more people asking you for your time.  Was it a lot more?  How hard is it to put some of that aside and focus on tennis?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, yeah, definitely a little bit my life changed with the attention from the fans and from the people outside.  I try just to enjoy this moment, to embrace it as much as possible.   
It gives me also energy, but sometimes I feel tired.  Sometimes I feel upset after a practice that is not going the right way.  But I try just to enjoy it and I try to take as maybe the best moment of my life.  I just try to share my happiness with the fans.   
 Q.  Looking ahead to tomorrow, playing Ash Barty, what are your thoughts on that one?  What do you think you have to do to win?  
SIMONA HALEP: I never played against her, so I don't really know what to expect.  But I know she's very talented.  She's moving okay.  I just have to talk to my coach tomorrow before the match, trying to stay stronger on my legs, and trying to be with the energy at the highest level as possible.   
 Q.  When did you know about tomorrow's game?  Before or after the game tonight?  
SIMONA HALEP: I checked when I went to the locker room.   
 Q.  What was the first word that came through your mind at that time?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I can't say it (smiling).  It's not a very bad word, but I can't say it.   
 Q.  Do you feel a change happened in the second in today's match?  What happened at 5-All to get that break?  Do you feel like you made any adjustments?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, during the match, actually first game I broke her, so I couldn't hold my serve, then I went a little bit down.  I was a little bit negative at the beginning of the match.   
But then when I broke her again in 5-4 to make 5-All, I said, Now is the time to stay for every point and put pressure on her.   
I think I did pretty well.  After I won that set, it was much easier mentally for me.   
 Q.  Was there a moment in the second set when you were sure about victory?  From the outside, it felt something like that.  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, you never know in tennis if you won already the match.  Until you shake the hand, you don't know that you won the match.   
I didn't think about that.  I just wanted to stay in the same mental way till the end.   
 Q.  You said last night you might want to have two crepes after all those hours on court.  Did you?  
SIMONA HALEP: Last night, no.  I was too tired.   
 Q.  Any tonight?  
SIMONA HALEP: I had this morning.  So tomorrow after the match maybe (smiling).   
 Q.  Back to the scheduling.  Is that something that you talk about with other players?  Is that sort of a frustration that other players have told you about?  What do you think the solution is for the WTA?  
SIMONA HALEP: I don't talk these things with the other players because is just about me.  I talk to my team about this.  All of them are upset.   
I never complained about the schedule.  As you know me since many years already, I never complain about anything.  But today was enough.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT