MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 22, 2018
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/O. Dodin
3-6, 6-3, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A little tougher than I know you would have liked.  You did break your New Year's resolution, I think, about the racquets.  In a good cause.
SIMONA HALEP: Well, yeah.  We can talk about the racquet.  It's gone.  I gave it to kids ball, one of the kids ball.  It was the moment, so I think it was good for me because I relax myself a little bit.  I had too much tension today.
I played bad, but, you know, you have these days, and when you don't give up, is the most important thing.  I think that's why I won today, because I didn't give up.  I didn't play well, but, you know, in the end, if you win it, you take only the positives.
Q. Is your ankle okay?
SIMONA HALEP: As much as possible.  I was too tight.  Maybe that's why I switched my ankle again.
I will treat it.  Is nothing bad.  But you never know with ankles.  I'm used to them.
Q. How tough is it facing someone who has nothing to lose, someone who is ranked 98 and playing insane?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, she played well.  She was hitting very strong the balls, and at one point I didn't know where the ball is coming.
So it was really tough to read her game.  I never played against her.  She served pretty well, over 100 miles, which is really good.
But, yeah, I cannot tell you much about this match, because I don't really know how is it.  I felt just that I played bad, but it's a good day at the office and I take it.
Q. Can you talk a bit about Agnieszka, your matchup?  You have an exactly even career record, 5-5, against her.
SIMONA HALEP: You mean about Radwanska, the match?  Yeah, it's always tough to play against her, because she's very intelligent.  She's playing soft so is not going to be like today.
But she's very smart on court, and I have to be more aggressive than today.  I have to take the ball faster.
We will see how is gonna be, but definitely it's gonna be a tough match.  So I'm ready for it.  I'm ready to run.  I'm here just to try to play better and better day by day.
Q. You have played and won a lot of three-set matches this year.  Is that something you have noticed you have improved on?  What do you think in the third set if you're down and coming back?
SIMONA HALEP: Well, yeah, I played many matches, but I'm really happy that I could win all these matches.  I think 90% I won.
Before maybe previous years I couldn't win the matches in the third set, so I'm really happy that I changed this to myself, and I feel stronger.  So when I go to the third set, I don't panic.  I'm relaxed and I'm just fighting till the end, and I'm sure that I have a big chance to win the match, so I just go for it.
Q. Regarding Darren's tweet, the issue of new mothers getting a protected seeding or not, as a No. 1 seed or even if you aren't a No. 1 seed, would you have a problem with maybe losing a seeding spot, you know, because of that?
SIMONA HALEP: No, I have no problems, and I feel that it's fair.  When someone is giving birth to a kid, it's more than a sport.  Like I said, it's something very special in this life, and I have no problems if someone is leaving, No. 1 in the world, to give birth, and to come back to take the seed at the tournaments.
I think it's, like, eight tournaments that you can have protected ranking, so I have no problems.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT