QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 14, 2018
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/E. Makarova
6-3, 6-0
Q. Simona, pleased with that opening effort, and how was the foot and ankle feeling?
SIMONA HALEP: Ankle is okay.  The foot is still painful.  That's why I just tried to finish the points quick.  But you know, I didn't want to think about it too much, and I think I played great tennis today.  And everything was okay.  Not perfect, but it was okay.
Q. What were you most pleased about in your game today?
SIMONA HALEP: That I could play what I had in my mind, to be aggressive, to try to finish the points, to make some winners, which I did, and in the end the serve helped me a lot.  At one point I just started to roll it, and then I just shaked my head and I said that I have to hit it, so I hit it and it helped me a lot.
Q. Do you come out of that match -- I know if the foot is still hurting, you said before the focus is on your health kind of coming into this.  So do you come out of that match feeling more confident, neutral?
SIMONA HALEP: Doesn't matter too much if I'm confident or not.  It depends -- everything depends of my foot.  I feel the pain, but it's not getting worse.  We'll see tomorrow.  I have no idea what to say.  I just take day by day, and I will see.
Q. Simona, next match, I mean what are you kind of thinking about with respect to the next one?  Just your thoughts on it?
SIMONA HALEP: I play against Sevastova; right?
Q. Yeah.
SIMONA HALEP: It's always tough against her.  She's playing flat, very low.  So it's going to be a little bit difficult to try to finish the points, but I will keep the same what I did today and what I did in Melbourne.  So it's simple for me.  I will see tomorrow if I'm able to do this game and play normal.  Nothing special.
Q. It was a little bit windy out on the outer courts.  I'm just curious --
SIMONA HALEP: It was windy.
Q. It was?  Was it windy, like tricky?
SIMONA HALEP: It was tricky.  Yeah.  Some points were really difficult to play, but for both of us was the same.  I forgot since I played the last time in wind.  So it was a good day.
Q. You mentioned your foot, your injury.  When you said you're going to see tomorrow, does that mean you're going to assess the injury tomorrow morning or you're going to play anyway?
SIMONA HALEP: No.  I will go on court.
Q. You'll definitely go on court?
SIMONA HALEP: For sure, yeah.  And I will try to finish the match.  I started already to talk too much about this injury.  It's just a problem with my foot.  The doctor said that nothing can happen like worse to break something or kind of death.  But still when I will feel stronger pain, I think I will just think -- I will double think about it and I will take the best decision.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT