BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 9, 2018
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/Kr. Pliskova   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did it feel out there today?  
SIMONA HALEP: It felt really well, and I think I played good tennis, even if the previous days I didn't feel the ball that well.  But today was great that I could actually play a few rallies.  I got the rhythm back.  And I feel good now.  I feel more confident.   
 Q.  You looked quite relieved at the end of the match.  Was it just because Indian Wells can be tricky as sort of the first match in the spring?  
SIMONA HALEP: I like to play in Indian Wells, and also I like that the ball is flying a little bit.   
I was like that because it was important to win this match.  I come back from an injury, tough injury, and I didn't have pain.  I feel good.  I feel happy about that, that I won this match, which is not easy to play against Pliskova sisters.  It's always a big win for me.   
 Q.  Do you have any trouble telling them apart?  
SIMONA HALEP: I have no idea when I see them (smiling).  But I always say hello to the other one.  And we are, like, not really friends.  We just say hello.  And I look, like, Why she's called like that?  But then I realize.   
 Q.  How, if at all, did the doubles yesterday help get the rhythm back?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, for sure helped.  Actually, I feel sad that we couldn't win that tiebreak.  It was a good match.  Second set definitely was much better.   
Today was better that I had the feeling of the match already, and I could start pretty well and I could fight, you know, for every ball and staying focused.   
 Q.  A lot of players actually complain about the ball flying here at Indian Wells, but you said you like it.  Why do you like it?  How does it help your game, do you think?  
SIMONA HALEP: Maybe because I don't need that much power to hit the balls.  So they are going (smiling).  No, I just like the feeling.  It's similar to Madrid.  The surface is different, but the air and the stuff, for me, it seems similar.   
I don't know how to explain why I like, but I just feel the ball.  I feel okay.   
 Q.  When you talk about playing through and not being in pain, is it tough to know how injuries are until you play a real match?  Is it always, like everything else, you can't substitute for the actual competition?  
SIMONA HALEP: You never know if injury is okay, if the injury is gone, if you don't play a match.  So that's why I was waiting.  Even if I played yesterday doubles didn't mean that, you know, it's okay until today when I played the full match.  And I didn't think about it, and no pain.  So now I can say that it's solved.   
 Q.  Could be Cibulkova in the next round.  Curious what your thoughts are on that match.  
SIMONA HALEP: Very tough one.  Always tough to play against her.  She's playing really flat, fast.  She's moving a lot.  So I will think about it.  I didn't have time to do that.  But first we have to see who is going to win.   
I will play my game.  I will be relaxed.  I will enjoy the moment, and I will try to be aggressive like I did today and like I did in Melbourne.   
I have only one way to play now in my head.   
 Q.  You have played doubles a little bit more this year than normal.  Is that going to be a plan for this year?  
SIMONA HALEP: I don't really want to play every tournament, but I saw that it helped me every time I played both at the tournaments.  Darren told me I have to do it because it's better practice than normal practice.  Official practice is much better.   
And also today, I did a good volley, so it comes a little bit.  That's why I play more.  I want to go to the net more.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT