QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 16, 2018
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/C. Bellis   
6-0, 6-4   
 Q.  Simona, congratulations on the win.  How difficult was it in that second set?  And what are your thoughts?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, yeah, it was a little bit more difficult because she started to play better.  I started to miss a little bit.  It was good tennis, in my opinion, the second set.  And I'm really pleased that I could finish it, because it was a little bit stressful at the end.  But the serve helped me in the last game.   
 Q.  Did you feel like, I mean it seems like you've been serving quite well throughout this week.  Is that how it's felt for you that the serve has been there when you've needed it?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it felt like.  And I served well when I needed it.  I'm improving on the serve, and I think it's good if I can keep it high.  And also to, you know, to change the directions more.  I will do that for the future.   
 Q.  And then when you arrived here and now obviously you're in the semifinals.  Did you think that where you were physically and just mentally and everything that it was enough to get to this stage?  I mean are you surprised at all or not surprised?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I am surprised that I could play three matches and to win them.  I felt pain every day, so it was not easy to manage it.  I didn't have much time to recover before this tournament.  But today was too much, and I decided to stop.   
 Q.  So you're -- you're withdrawing?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.  They don't know?  Yeah.  So I did it.  Yeah.  I withdraw because I cannot play anymore and it's going to be dangerous if I force it.   
 Q.  So it's the foot?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, the same foot like in Melbourne.   
 Q.  And have you talked to the doctors back home about it throughout the week or is it just about -- is the pain increasing?  
SIMONA HALEP: Today it was worse, and that's why I took this decision.  It's not easy, but I talked to the doctor, my doctor.  He said that I didn't have enough time to recover.  I stayed only a few days, and I need more.  The MRI shows that I have fluid and also tendonitis at the fourth toe.  So I have just to take care of it and thinking about the health first.   
 Q.  Do you know how long you will be out of tennis?  Do you know what treatment you're going to have?  Could be a few weeks or you're just resting?  
SIMONA HALEP: Definitely until Indian Wells I will not play anything.  I will decide before the tournament if I will be able to play I understand ideal wells.  For the moment I cannot say much.  I have to take day by day and to see if I can recover until Indian Wells.   
 Q.  And does it require just rest or is there other treatment?  
SIMONA HALEP: First I need rest, because I didn't stay, and this injury needs rest.   
 Q.  Simona, a few days ago you said you don't want to think about the injury.  In hindsight now would you think that you have pushed yourself too much?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I did.  I did this week, and today I felt that I should stop because it's better.   
 Q.  About today's opponent, CiCi.  What do you think of her play style and what makes her tough to play against?  
SIMONA HALEP: She's fast.  She's hitting the ball fast, and she stays close to the baseline, which makes her game fast and it's not easy to stay there.  So you have to be aggressive to make points.  In the second set I couldn't finish the points because she was everywhere, and she has great movement.   
 Q.  Does she remind you of any good top players?  
SIMONA HALEP: It's tough because the Top 10 are very tall, so she's like my height.  I think she plays fast like everyone, but you know, now we can a little bit compare the height.  It's not easy for her.  But she's good enough to be there.   
 Q.  What happens immediately?  Are you going somewhere now?  Now that you're out of the tournament, are you going to go somewhere to see your doctor?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.  I will go to see my doctor.  I don't know yet where and when.  I just took the decision.  I have to think about some things.   
 Q.  What goes into a decision like this?  Is it with the coaches, with the doctor, everyone?  Is it mostly you?  
SIMONA HALEP: Everyone, but mostly me because I feel the pain and I know how much I can push and how much I can -- how much I can push and when I have to stop.   
 Q.  Simona, are you frustrated?  
SIMONA HALEP: I am.   
 Q.  You are?  
SIMONA HALEP: You can see, no?   
 Q.  Yeah.  I can.  But I guess can you explain why?  Why is it so frustrating to have to stop now?  
SIMONA HALEP: It's tough to withdraw in the semis.  I think it's first time when I do this.  It's a great tournament, beautiful place.  I play great tennis.  So it's very tough to stop because of the injury, but I have to, and I pushed enough myself this two months.  So I have just to take it easy.   
 Q.  Now that you've beaten an opponent who will go into the semis, I guess because you've withdrawn, how does that feel for the other player who's lost from your point of view?  
SIMONA HALEP: I never had withdraw in the semis.  I think it's nice to be in the final without playing.  Yeah.  I cannot explain much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT