WUHAN OPEN
September 26, 2017
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. KASATKINA/S. Halep   
6-2, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough day today.  Seemed like the second serve in particular was tough to defend.  Was that something that you thought was something you were doing, or she just was attacking more than you expected?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I think she played really well today, and everything went in the right way for her.  But also wasn't my best day.  It's tough.  I didn't play for, like, a month.  It's tough to come back and to play matches.   
But, yeah, about the second serve, I'm working on it.  I just try to use more spin.  Was my plan, just to do that.  She was solid on the return.  Also on the baseline, she played really well.  Today she was better than me.   
 Q.  In your previous matches, did she play as aggressively as she did today?  Seemed like she was hitting a bigger ball than in the past.  
SIMONA HALEP: I think she was a little bit more aggressive, but also I didn't play the right game against her.  Maybe I should have changed something.   
But I cannot say that I felt the ball too well today, so it was a little bit tough day for my game, for me.  Still I think that she played maybe her best game against me, and she deserved to win for sure.   
 Q.  Having not played since the US Open, what on the match court did you feel like maybe you were missing?  
SIMONA HALEP: The rhythm of the match, the rhythm of the official points.  It's tough to get that rhythm fast, in a few games.  Maybe it was a mistake that I didn't play, but I needed rest after U.S. season.   
I take it like it is.  No drama.  But for sure I will talk about this match and I will learn more things about it.   
 Q.  You didn't play for a month, it was because you decided to or you got injured or...  
SIMONA HALEP: No, because I decided like that.   
 Q.  Mentally, physically?  
SIMONA HALEP: It's everything.  Also I think my body needed rest.  I played many matches in the first half of the year.  I felt that it's better to stay a little bit.   
 Q.  You mentioned the other day that working with Andrei back home in Romania.  It seemed like you were focusing on the serve.  Is that right?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yes.   
 Q.  Can you talk more about that, first serve, second serve, what particularly you're trying to improve with it?  
SIMONA HALEP: Everything, first, second.  I just decided with my team after the last match in US Open that I have to serve a little bit better, more spin, speed.  But I cannot improve in two weeks.  I just keep doing that.  I just have to believe that is going to get stronger.  But I need time.  Like anyone, like everything in life, you need time to get stronger.   
 Q.  You were serving quite well earlier in the season, particularly I remember a Wimbledon match against Konta.  Your second serve speed against Konta was like 86 miles an hour.  What has been the change?  
SIMONA HALEP: There is different because was grass.  You can use also the slice a little bit.   
I cannot say that something is changed.  But maybe the power was less after that tournament.  Maybe a little bit tired.  I cannot explain exactly.   
What I saw after I saw the matches that I played in U.S., my serve is too soft for the big players, for the strong players.  That's why I decided to work on it more.   
 Q.  You're not the tallest player in the world.  What is the toughest part of serving for you?  
SIMONA HALEP: Which one is the toughest part?   
 Q.  Yes, as someone who isn't 6'2".  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I'm not thinking which one is my toughest part.  I'm thinking what I have the best.  I just try to work on it and to make it better and better.   
Of course, I don't have big serve because I'm not tall.  Also I can move faster, so it's a balance there.   
 Q.  Did getting so close to No. 1 a couple of times, not quite making it, did that have any sort of psychological impact on you since?  
SIMONA HALEP: No more.  I don't believe that is going to happen this year.  But if is going to happen, is going to be great.  But now I'm not thinking at all about that.  It's gone.   
I just want to get the rhythm back, to play matches and to try to win every match I play, then we will see.   
 Q.  When you're playing a player who is just going for her shots, playing really well, is there a point in a match that you press the reset button and try to reevaluate what you're doing, try to do things differently?  How does it work for you?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I felt that she's hitting a little bit more aggressive.  She's aggressive.  Yeah, I was thinking to change the rhythm a little bit, but didn't work.  I didn't feel the ball to spin it and to play higher.  I think that was a little bit better if I could do that, but I couldn't.  She was really dominating all match.  She played really well today.   
 Q.  In the Wuhan Open you have been the second seeded player.  You lost the match.  Your results in the Wuhan Open are not very good.  Do you have any thoughts for the coming Wuhan Opens in the future?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I didn't have great results here in Wuhan.  Last year I played semis, so I played a few good matches.   
But, yeah, what can I say about this?  Many thoughts I don't have.  Like I say, today is not my best day.  Maybe here I don't feel straightaway my game.  That's why I don't have great results.  It's end of the year.  It's a little bit difficult.   
But I'm trying to do my best every time I come here.  Sometimes is not working.  Last year was better, but this year was worse.  I'm just looking forward to the next day, to train again, and maybe next year is going to be better.  I hope so.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT