ROGERS CUP
August 12, 2017
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. SVITOLINA/S. Halep   
6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  Just too many matches today?  What do you think went wrong?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I really don't know.  So if you can analyze this match, I will be happy to listen.   
But I have no words.  I just didn't feel the ball, and I couldn't play.   
 Q.  How did you spend the time between the two matches today?  
SIMONA HALEP: Just normal.  Nothing special.  I had rest.  About 30 minutes I slept.  I stayed in the player's lounge.  Normal stuff.  Nothing different.   
 Q.  And you didn't feel there was anything different coming from her ball today?  
SIMONA HALEP: I think I couldn't feel it.  So it's really tough to analyze the game.   
But she's a very consistent player.  She's strong there and she played her game.   
 Q.  And how soon do you think you will head to Cincinnati?  Will you stay a few more days in Toronto?  
SIMONA HALEP: No.  I'm going to Cincinnati to get used to that weather, to the court, and I move on.   
 Q.  And you haven't spoken to Darren yet?  
SIMONA HALEP: No.  I came straight.   
 Q.  Did anything change between the first match and the second match?  Did you feel very different?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I didn't feel the ball in the second match.  I don't know why.  I have just to stay a little bit and to see -- maybe to watch the match again and to see what was wrong.   
 Q.  When you started the second match, did you feel like this was completely different from the first match right away?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.  From the first game, I started to feel that I have no touch at the ball.  So I think that was it.   
 Q.  At any point during the match, did you feel like maybe you could turn it around and start playing better or were you just kind of feeling that it wasn't going to happen for you today?  
SIMONA HALEP: I think at 5-0, I started to feel a little bit better but way too late.  So I tried just to have a better feeling in the end of the match but...   
 Q.  Do you take any positives from this week or right now is it kind of hard to feel positive?  
SIMONA HALEP: Sure.  It's a semifinal, so it's not that bad.  Big tournament.  I played really well also this morning.   
So it's just this match that I will forget it very fast for sure.  I have just to move on and to look forward.  I have many tournaments ahead.   
And sometimes it happens, so it was one of my bad days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT