THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 11, 2017
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
J. KONTA/S. Halep   
6-7, 7-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  In Constanta you felt the crowd was loud but fair.  How did you feel about the crowd today?  
SIMONA HALEP: Very nice and very fair.  Just the last point, I was surprised that that lady was screaming.  But the rest was nice atmosphere.  I appreciated it.   
 Q.  When the scream happened, you looked to the umpire and didn't do anything.  Did you think to challenge a little stronger?  
SIMONA HALEP: No.  I thought he's going to repeat the point.  I think it's normal to repeat the point when someone is screaming like that.   
 Q.  You didn't make your case to him to replay.  
SIMONA HALEP: To challenge what?   
 Q.  You didn't make your case to replay the point.  You seemed to just accept it.  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, because he said, We cannot replay.  I cannot change anything.  So why I should fight?   
 Q.  Talking through the match, talk about the level at which you were able to play and also where you think the turning points of the match were for you.  
SIMONA HALEP: I think was a great tennis.  Both of us played a good level.  I was very close, again.  In the tiebreak maybe I could serve better and stronger a little bit.  Then in the third set, the serve game that I lost was a little bit tough to still believe that I can break her because she was serving pretty well.   
I think everything was okay.  Many positives from this match.  And she played really well, so she deserves to win.   
 Q.  Jo took a long toilet break before the start of the third set.  You asked the question to the umpire.  Were you surprised she was allowed to go on so long?  
SIMONA HALEP: Where, the toilet break?   
 Q.  Yes.  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I don't believe that were only four minutes.  But she does that all the time.  I cannot change because there is no rule.  I understood from the umpire.   
 Q.  How hard is it to play someone who is from this country on that court where it's so loud?  Is that hard mentally for you?  
SIMONA HALEP: I think everywhere, in every country, if you are playing with someone from that country, is the same.  The crowd has to be loud for the opponent because is from the country.  I said before the match that I have no problems with that.  Always when I play in my home country, is the same.   
We have to take it.   
 Q.  You only had two breakpoints in the whole match.  Do you think there's anything more you could have done?  Do you think Konta just served that well?  
SIMONA HALEP: She served well, but also I could attack a little bit more the second serve because I had some chances.  But she served well.   
 Q.  You've been in the top 10 for three and a half years now.  This is the second chance you had to move to No. 1.  How much does missing out on that bother you?  How much would it mean to you to actually be No. 1 someday?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I don't know how is to be No. 1.  I'm not still there.   
It's nice to be in the top 10 for so long time.  I'm really pleased with my performance.  Of course, one of my goals is to get to No. 1.  But I had another chance here.  I was close, I could say.  But doesn't affect me that much because I think I have many years ahead.  So maybe I will have more chances.  I'm close, so I have just to keep working.   
 Q.  Having played Jo today, what chance do you give her against Venus in the semis?  
SIMONA HALEP: I think she can win.  She's a very strong player.  She's playing well.  She has the crowd, as well.  I think she's able to win tomorrow or next round.   
 Q.  Where would you rate that in terms of how well you played as a grass court match as a pro?  Was that the best match you ever played, one of the best?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I think was close to the best, maybe the best.  I thought my level was pretty high also hitting the balls, serves, how I served, and also the moving.  Maybe I should stay a little bit more closer to the line.  But she was hitting pretty strong.   
I think was a great match.  I take the positives.   
 Q.  How frustrating is it to lose when you did play really well today?  
SIMONA HALEP: Like always when I lose, I'm very frustrated.   
 Q.  It's no more frustrating?  
SIMONA HALEP: No, it's not more than the final in French Open.   
 Q.  What is it like playing under the roof on Centre Court?  What are the differences you felt with the grass?  
SIMONA HALEP: First set was pretty warm.  In the second set, I don't know why, they turned on the air conditioning.  I asked the chair umpire.  It was pretty cold after that.   
I think it's a little bit faster when you play indoor.  But I like to play indoor, so no problem.   
 Q.  Right before you played, both Djokovic and Mannarino mentioned there was a hole on the court near one of the service lines.  Did you notice that at all?  Did that bother you?  
SIMONA HALEP: No, I did not notice.  I was not looking after that.   
 Q.  Even if you say you're not too much affected by the fact you're not No. 1, did you feel an extra pressure because of that?  Did you think about that during the match?  
SIMONA HALEP: No, no, because I learned that I don't have to think too much about the result and the victory because if you don't go there and you take it, you don't have it.   
No, I didn't feel extra pressure for that.  I just felt that I have another chance, and that's it.   
 Q.  Your thoughts on Karolina rising to No. 1, being the new WTA No. 1, her as a competitor and her spot in that top spot.  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, she's playing really well.  This year she already has few titles won.  I feel she deserves to be there.  She has the best serve, I think, after Serena.   
So well done to her.  She played really well this year.  I think she's happy now.   
 Q.  At the French Open and here today, it's taken a brilliant performance to beat you.  How encouraging is it that players are having to play that well to beat you?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, it's good that maybe she played the best match today, the best tennis.  It's a good thing.  Maybe I can take from here also a positive that all the players that are beating me are playing maybe the best tennis.   
But doesn't make me happier.  I'm just taking as it is and go ahead.  I have no way to go back.   
 Q.  You said you were taking positives away from the performance.  So what are the positives that you take away from this tournament?  
SIMONA HALEP: That I played so well after disappointing moment in French Open.  I was able again to fight till the end.  I played well, so my game is there.  I've been okay.   
These are the positives.  I cannot complain about anything because she played well today, and she got the match, she won the match.   
 Q.  Do you think the difference was in Jo's performance in Romania compared to today?  
SIMONA HALEP: Sorry?   
 Q.  What do you feel the difference was?  Why was she so much better today?  
SIMONA HALEP: First, is grass court, is not clay court.  She likes more to play on grass.  She is home.  She had many more people next to her, not in Romania.  We had like 2,000.  Romania was Fed Cup match.  Here is a Grand Slam quarterfinal.  I see many big different things.   
 Q.  Does it surprise you that the WTA does not include that Fed Cup match in your head-to-head with her?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, it's not a WTA tournament, so maybe that's why.  I didn't think about that, and I didn't know before you tell me now.  So I have no idea.  Doesn't matter.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT