ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2017
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/T. Maria
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Can you just talk about the match, how difficult was it?  I know your forehand was kind of not as reliable in maybe the first set and all the breaks of serve, but how were you able to get through that match?
SIMONA HALEP: Well, thank you.  Yeah, I think it was a difficult match today.  I never played against her this last years.  I didn't expect her to play so high, so at the beginning I was a little bit insecure.  I didn't know exactly what I have to do, what to attack or where to do a step behind the court and the line and just to play the same.
So I didn't know exactly what to do.  But then I started to mix.  I feel the forehand was much better than the first round, but still I can do much more with it.
Yeah, I lost some serves, but I think I served pretty okay.  I think the match was great, in my opinion, very good level, and she's a very tough opponent.
Q. When you talk about solving the problems that she was throwing at you with the high balls, what did you settle on that actually worked tactically to fix it?
SIMONA HALEP: Both things.  First, to attack, to take it fast, and the other thing was just to go back a little bit and to throw the ball same, higher, but I didn't do it perfectly.  I think I should have done more like to play with more spin.  But I didn't.  I tried everything.  I was running very well.
So I think I should be pleased with the match, because it was a tough one, and gives me confidence that I could win in two sets, actually.
Q. Talking about two sets, how happy are you to have won your first two rounds in two sets, get match play but also get plenty of rest in between?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I'm fit.  I'm ready to play.  I'm ready to play also three hours.  I don't care about that.
Yeah, it's good to win in two sets, so I think gives you more confidence.  Gives me more -- I feel comfortable there on court.  But doesn't mean that it's gonna be the same next round.
So I just take all the positives from these two rounds and looking forward for the next one.
Q. You played very well in Madrid, but in Paris -- you were the champion, but apart from Madrid tournament, here the conditions change very quickly that's because condensation or it can rain?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it's different.  The court is different, and here is not altitude like in Madrid.  But the game is a little bit heavier, but still, like to play here, I like the courts -- I feel the courts are faster.  I feel that.  I'm not sure exactly now.  Yeah, the conditions are different, and we cannot compare.
But still, the clay is similar to Madrid.
Q. You have played on Chatrier now and then Lenglen.  A lot of the French players --
SIMONA HALEP: I played Lenglen.
Q. You didn't play Chatrier on the first one?
SIMONA HALEP: No, they changed.  So I don't know how is in Chatrier.
Q. Go with me on this question.  You played Chatrier in the past.  But a lot of the French players prefer Lenglen over Chatrier for a variety of reasons.  Maybe pressure, things like that.  Do you like one court better than the other?
SIMONA HALEP: No.  The same.  I feel the same.  Just Chatrier is a little bit bigger behind, and on the sides.
But the court, for me, is the same.
Q. Next up you have someone who also loves clay a lot who also had ankle issues since Rome, Daria Kasatkina.  Can you preview that match a little bit and are you excited for it?  Looking forward to it?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I'm excited to play against her.  Always when I played with her was tough match.  I remember one match in Miami, I think I played one more time with her, but I don't remember where.  She has a very topspin forehand, so it's going to be very heavy.  I have to make her run, because she's a little bit injured, like me (smiling).
Yeah, it's gonna be a tough one, but it's a big challenge again for me.  I feel ready.  I feel that I have confidence.  I have my chance to win.  So I have just to stay on my plan against her, and to believe that I can win.
Q. Players try to build confidence throughout a tournament match by match.  So two matches into the tournament, do you consider yourself more confident now than you were before you played your first opening match?
SIMONA HALEP: I cannot say that I'm more confident.  I'm the same like I started this tournament.  I was pretty well when I came here.  Just I'm into the tournament and feels a little bit different, but the confidence is the same.
Q. How do you say vamos or...
SIMONA HALEP: Haide.  Haide is Romanian.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT