MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 11, 2017
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/C. Vandeweghe
6-1, 6-1
SIMONA HALEP: Now I understand why so many people come, because Novak was supposed to come first (laughter).  I will enjoy this moment.
Q. Today was commanding.  How do you feel that went?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it was very good match actually.  I knew what I have to do against her.  I knew that I have to play fast, to make her move, to hit from distance.
Yeah, I tried also to be more aggressive from her second serve.  I served pretty well.  I don't believe I lost a serve today.
It was a good match.  I was a little bit nervous, to be honest, before the match, because she has a big serve.  It's always tough to play with someone who has a big serve.
Yeah, I was thinking a little bit.  I lost every emotion, and I played my best.
Q. How much of a relief is it for you, because you played two three-setters beforehand, to get this one quickly?
SIMONA HALEP: Was a relief that I played quick?
Q. Yes.
SIMONA HALEP: I didn't expect to be so fast today.  But I was focused.  I was concentrated for every point.  I knew that it's going to be important.  Also when the rain came, I tried to just play fast, to stay there in the match.
I think I did pretty well today.  I'm really happy with the way also I played, and with my attitude.
Q. Also have doubles final coming up, semifinals in the singles.  How do you feel energy-wise?  Good week for you so far.
SIMONA HALEP: Very good week.  I remember Montreal.  I hope, yeah, to repeat that.  But it's not going to be easy.
I feel good with my energy.  I feel fit.  I feel strong, I can say.  Those doubles matches put me in the rhythm.  I'm really happy that I played.
I feel good.  I'm looking forward for the semis, for the second year in a row.  It's nice.
Q. You did very well today, but how is it to play against a player that is getting angry on the court, talking a lot, throwing the racquet?  Did you have to block it out?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I didn't see what she has done there.  Also when she started to say, C'mon, I heard, but I didn't want to pay attention.  I stayed focused on myself, just on myself, and on the game.
I have nothing to do with that.  Everyone is free to do anything they want.
Q. You talk about attitude.  Do you feel different mentally or attitude-wise this week?
SIMONA HALEP: I feel different, but not just this week.  In the last five weeks, I feel different.  It's much better.  I keep more energy in this way.  When I finish a match like yesterday, where it was really tough, I didn't feel tired.  That makes me stronger and makes me to understand.  It puts me in the way to understand that it's much better to stay relaxed, just calm, not talking and doing other stuff on court.
Q. Obviously you're playing Sevastova next.  You played her finals in Bucharest, the other week in Stuttgart, someone you've beaten quite handily.  Is that almost a trap to face someone that you've won against so easily in the past?
SIMONA HALEP: Every time I say the same thing:  Every match is different.  I don't expect to be easy like in Stuttgart.  I don't expect anything.  So I just want to go there.  I know that I have my chance to win the match.  I know what I have to play.
Hopefully I will feel my game and just doing my best to win the match.  I really wish to be in the final again here.
Q. Talking about specifically the week in doubles, how has it gone?  It was a good win today.
SIMONA HALEP: Shopping money (smiling).
Yeah, today was a great win.  I was super motivated because I got hit at the beginning of the match.  My head, yeah, I still feel it.  It was a volley, so imagine.
I got extra motivated.  I couldn't imagine to lose that match.  I did everything I could.  I was very energetic.  I was, like, hitting all the balls, doing everything on court.  My coach told me that was the best match I ever played doubles.
I said, Yeah, I need to be hit before, and then I can play (smiling).
Yeah, was a good experience to play against these two players.  They are very good.  The best players maybe in the world.  Yeah, it was a good.  It is nice to be in the semis.  I played well with Irina.  Yeah, let's enjoy tomorrow again.
Q. The choice of partner in doubles, does it have to do with Fed Cup at all?
SIMONA HALEP: Actually, she asked me before the tournament if I play doubles, if I want to play doubles.  I said, Let's play.  Actually, I asked Darren if I play doubles because I was in the middle.  He said that it's good to play some matches.  I said yes.
Is nothing special in this relation, like partners doubles.  It's nothing.  It's just we are colleagues and friends.  We just said to play this week, to play next week.  I give up now.  No more doubles in Rome.  She knows, so is not news (smiling).
I enjoyed a lot playing with her.  I hope to play with her many times.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT