BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 25, 2016
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/S. Halep
6-4, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Thanks for waiting and coming.  Tough loss because I feel like it was much closer than the score reflects, don't you think?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I think so.  I think I had the opportunity to get that first set.  I was coming back very well.  But, you know, I didn't maybe -- maybe I didn't finish the important points and I missed a lot today.
But she played a great tennis.  She's very strong and on her legs she's moving great.  Yeah, she deserve to win.  I take it and I'm looking forward to continue this tournament.
Q. Seemed like a lot of things just weren't working at the key points for you, especially your forehand.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I missed a lot with the forehand.
Q. Any reason why?
SIMONA HALEP: Bad day.
Q. Just a bad day at the office?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.
Q. After having this first match where you were playing so well, did you feel like it was a little bit of a letdown?  What was the last 48 hours like?
SIMONA HALEP: Different match.  Totally different match.  Keys is hitting very strong; Kerber is not hitting.  She's pushing the balls.  But she doesn't miss, so it's different and I cannot compare the matches.
Definitely I played worse with my forehand.  I missed a lot.  I think there was the key.
Q. You saved match point I think twice with those two winners.  What gave you the courage to hit such a risky shot at match point?
SIMONA HALEP: I had nothing to lose at that score anymore.  I just wanted to hit.
Q. Generally you are the solid one.  You go for your shots, but you're also more patient and take time.  Whereas today against Angie, as you said, it feels like you always have to go for the extra ball and makes you feel like probably how your opponent feel against you.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, always when you play against her you have to wait, to be patient, because she's moving well, like I said.  She returns all the balls.  She doesn't miss.
You have always to restart the point.  Think I did a good gamed today.  I just missed too much when I had to finish the points.
Q. You obviously have Domi next, and the beauty of this format is you've got another shot to start over.  Thoughts about facing her?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I have another chance to qualify in the semis.  Just looking forward to play another match, to give my best, to play better than today, and to fight.
I have just only this reason here.  I'm here just to play and win every match I play.
Q. What do you think is going to be the key against somebody like Domi?
SIMONA HALEP: It's a bit different.  She doesn't move that well like Kerber.  I feel always when I play against her I can finish the points.  I have to be aggressive, to do my style, and just to be there for every point.
She's fighting until the end and I don't have to lose the concentration at all.
Q. Earlier in the first set seemed like you were also moving around and seemed like you didn't find the right timing or distance.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, because the court here is slow and the ball doesn't bounce.  Her balls are very low, so it's tough to go from down, deep down, to make a winner.
So I tried just to restart the points all the time, and just when I had the opportunity, good opportunity to finish the ball, I took it.  But I missed a lot with the forehand, so I think that was the problem.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT