U.S. OPEN
September 1, 2016
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/L. Safarova
6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Pretty quick turnaround from match to your press.  Is there any reason why?
SIMONA HALEP: No.  I had just to do something straight from the court, and I said I wanted to finish and then I can recover myself.
Q. A short recovery.  How do you feel about the way things went out there today?
SIMONA HALEP: It was not an easy match.  It was difficult.  At one point I lost the rhythm a little bit because she's left handed, not easy to play against.  I knew that she's very tough.  She's fighting till the end.
I played many times against her, and all the matches were very close.  So I expected that.  I'm not the happiest with my game today, but I'm really -- you know, I have the good mood that I could win the match in two sets and I could finish in the important moments.
Q. What weren't you happy with?
SIMONA HALEP: Like I said, I lost a little bit the rhythm and I didn't know where to stay, how to hit.
But in the important moments I found the rhythm.  I found the way that I have to hit.  And also the serve helped me a lot in important moments.
Q. You and Safarova are both really wonderful off the baseline.  There are a lot of breaks in that match.  Do you have a different kind of attitude thinking through those?
SIMONA HALEP: I knew that I have to be strong on my legs because she is there and she hits the ball pretty strong.
I think I was very, very good on my legs and I could return every ball.  I missed some, but also, I did some good points.
You know, always it's a good match against her.  Gives me confidence that I can beat her.  It's a nice match against her.  Hopefully for the next round I can be better.  I will be like more confident on court.
Q. Any difficulties in adjusting to the roof?
SIMONA HALEP: It was a little bit, but I had the chance to warm up in the morning before the match.  For her was first time, so was the same situation.  I don't want to say anything bad because it wasn't bad.
I had a nice feeling.  It was a great experience to be there.  I didn't have to wait for the rain, so that's a good thing.
Q. Maybe you'll find my question strange, but do you think external factors like a parent who is sick or something could have a way to influence on the way a player plays?
SIMONA HALEP: What is it about?  About what?
Q. Did you think like adding personal issues have an impact on the way players are playing or they are able to like not think about that during the matches because they are pro players.
SIMONA HALEP: I don't understand the question.
WTA REP: If a person has a personal issue.
SIMONA HALEP: Each other?
WTA REP: Like with their family.  Do you think it affects their tennis.
SIMONA HALEP: I think, yes, it affects.  If you have some problem in your family or personal problems, of course.
But I didn't have, thanks God, till now.  And sometimes I am bothered a little bit from some problems, but usually I can separate things.  When I have to work, I go to work.
Tennis is my job.  I do it with pleasure, but still is my job.
Q. I don't know if you saw after Bondarenko won yesterday, a fan came out of the stands on the court to take a picture with her.
SIMONA HALEP: I didn't see.
Q. Do you have ever have any concerns regarding security when you're out there?
SIMONA HALEP: No.  I feel safe.  Nothing happened to me till now.
I feel that no one can -- no one wants to hurt you, even if someone is coming to take a picture with you.
But I feel safe.  I had no problems till now.
Q. Do you use the stringing service here to string your racquets?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.
Q. What do you think of that operation?  Looks like a little bit of a factory setup back there.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it's a factory.  They are very fast.  They are very good.  All the racquets are made in time and very well done.
I'm happy with them.
Q. How did you spend your day off?  Do you have any special New York traditions whenever you're in the city?
SIMONA HALEP: No.  Just resting in my room, watching the TV, watching tennis.  Now I can listen to my coach because he's working at ESPN.  Nothing special.  Just relaxes.
Q. Is it surreal talk listening to Darren and other players?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I can learn.  You know, everything he says I take it with a good vibe.  I understand everything he wants to say about tennis.  I like to listen to him.
It's nice.  It's a relaxing time when I'm in the room and listening to the TV.
Q. Are you still in search of cheesecake on a daily basis?
SIMONA HALEP: I had.  I had yesterday and I will have one now after the lunch.
I like to have some nice routine with this food.  I'm not eating much, but just to taste it.
Q. But it's a particular fork New York sort of thing?  Have you found it...
SIMONA HALEP: No.  Here.  Upstairs.  We have the dining, player restaurant, and they have cheesecake there.  (Smiling.)
Q. I was just wondering, do you and Darren watch a lot of film together?
SIMONA HALEP: No.  I'm not watching.  Film about me?
Q. Yeah.
SIMONA HALEP: No.
Q. Or your opponents.
SIMONA HALEP: No.  I'm not doing that.  Maybe he does.  I don't know.  We have to ask him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT