U.S. OPEN
September 7, 2016
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/S. Halep   
6-2 4-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Just your thoughts after that match.  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I think it was a good match.  I played well.  I could play better in those moments when I had chances.  But I think the level was pretty high.   
I'm okay with the way that I was fighting till the end.  It's something normal now for me, so it's a good thing.  She played really well.  She is the best player, so her serve was huge today.   
It was tough.  Is tough.  I'm a little bit sad, but I have just to take the positives, because I have a lot going ahead.   
 Q.  After the second set, did you have a little bit of a letdown?  Were you sort of running out of gas?  
SIMONA HALEP: After the second?   
 Q.  After that great second set.  
SIMONA HALEP: No, I had two chances to make a break in first game, so wasn't about that.  There I could take that game, and I think the story of the match would have been different.   
You know, was just one game.  I should play like more aggressive, I think, after that game, but she took the break.  She took my game on my serve, and then she was serving really tough.   
 Q.  Since you beat her in Singapore you have had matches with her before.  Some of them tight.  Some of them going very, very quick against her.  What was the difference today, when you played her in Indian Wells, or other matches where it was a little bit more of a blowout for her?  
SIMONA HALEP: I think this was the best match that I ever had against her.  I felt that I'm very close and I have chances to win.  Like I said, I think my game was pretty good tonight.  It's a good thing.  I take it like with confidence, this match.   
I think we played very well.  I played very well.  But I could do better in some moments.   
 Q.  What are your thoughts on how often Serena came to net and how often she used the dropshot?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, she used I think today a few times the dropshot.  She did pretty well.  She comes to the net when she has short balls.  She hits with a lot of power and it's easy for her to come in.   
But she plays really well on these courts.  She's home, so I feel that she feels very confident.  She did a great job.  That's why she's No. 1.   
 Q.  Overall are you tense or disappointed in this moment?  
SIMONA HALEP: Both.  I am a little bit disappoint that I had could not take the chances, but I'm also happy about the way I stayed there and played.  I'm okay.  I'm normal now.   
 Q.  I know you're used to it in tennis, but does it feel weird No. 5 got to play No. 1 in the quarterfinals?  
SIMONA HALEP: I'm not thinking about these things.  It is how it is, and I have to play -- I have to beat best players to win a Grand Slam, so I don't care where I am, against who I play.   
I have just to win to get that title if I will do one day.   
 Q.  Is it more satisfying sitting there now having lost the quarterfinal compared to when you lost the semifinal here last year?  Do you feel better having at least played a good match, or...  
SIMONA HALEP: I feel definitely better that I played much better than last year in the semis.  Semis is better than quarterfinals.  Yeah, but they are two different things.  Last year I was not playing in the semis and this year I lost in the quarters but I gave everything I could.   
It's okay.  I don't want to complain about anything.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT