U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2016
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/C. Suarez Navarro   
6-2, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How would you describe the state of your game right now as you pursue winning your first major?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, my game now I feel is the best that I had ever, because I feel strong on my body.  I feel that I can control every tactic during the match.  I can change.  I'm able to the change the tactic when I need.   
I feel strong mentally, even if I have some bad moments during the matches.  I feel that I play for every ball, so that means that I'm focused and I really want to win and I'm fighting.   
It's tough to say about the winning a Grand Slam because I never won, so I don't know the feeling.  But I'm working hard to reach that title, to make that dreams come true.   
So I'm just working, dreaming at it, and if it's gonna happen one day, I will be very happy.   
 Q.  It might be Serena Williams may stand in the way of the dream in the next round.  If you do play Serena Williams, what for you is the biggest mental challenge and the biggest physical challenge?  
SIMONA HALEP: Mental challenge I think doesn't have to be that important because she's like the best player in the world.  I don't have to be afraid or to have emotions because I have nothing to lose.  It's just a huge challenge for me.  Just playing my game; I will try to do that.   
Physically I feel strong enough to face her, but you never know.  She has a lot of power when she hits, so I have just to recover my body, to be 100% next round, and to give everything I have.   
 Q.  When you have those moments where you get frustrated, you throw the racquet, are you mad about that particular shot that you missed or are you mad about the whole situation?  
SIMONA HALEP: No, just that point.  Actually, I'm working on it.  I want to change it, but I have the permission from the coach that I can do this stuff when I feel because the next point I'm 100% and I play it to win.  (Smiling.)   
So I did this change.  In the future maybe I will change also this feeling just to be more like positive and to hide more the negative one, even if I miss an easy shot.   
 Q.  And throughout the first four matches, you have had really good first sets.  Against Babos played well, but maybe a little bit dip in the second set.  Is that a little bit loss of rhythm or nerves or...  
SIMONA HALEP: I think nerves, yeah, first.  And second, I think the opponents are starting to play really well after a good first set maybe they say that they have nothing to lose anymore and just go and play, in my opinion.   
But it's not easy to keep that rhythm for all match, so I'm trying to do that.  But today was better.  I had 5-3, but that little break maybe bothered me a little bit, and that's why she came back good.   
But, yeah, it was good, and I could handle the match in the second set and I'm really proud of that.   
 Q.  Out on Armstrong, how different was it compared to Ashe?  
SIMONA HALEP: Smaller.  You can feel the difference straightaway.  And I think the court is a little bit faster.  So it was good for me today.  I felt really well on that court.   
Also, last year I played against Lisicki there, so I had good memories.  You know, I just enjoy everywhere I play.  I don't care where I'm playing.   
 Q.  What do you remember most about the first time you saw Serena Williams play, either on TV or...  
SIMONA HALEP: Oh, a long time ago.  I was a kid.   
 Q.  Or across the net from her?  
SIMONA HALEP: At that moment maybe I was dreaming to play against her once, because I was a kid and I didn't know that I would be so in the top.   
Like I said many times, I have learned from her many times.  I admired her a lot, so it's always good to play against her and it's always good to watch what the best players are doing.   
 Q.  What are some of the many things that you've learned?  
SIMONA HALEP: Oh, she's ambitious.  She gives everything to win all the matches.   
Her focus.  She is focused and she doesn't give up.  Three things.  And I'm not telling anymore.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  How has that affected you?  
SIMONA HALEP: Affected me when I play against her?   
 Q.  No.  In just learning that, what difference has that made for you?  
SIMONA HALEP: Actually, I'm trying just to do the same things.  I'm trying to learn from the best players.  I'm trying just to get better and better with these things.   
 Q.  Before the tournament started, did you know that you were in Serena's quarter or did you just find out?  
SIMONA HALEP: No, I knew.  I knew.  I will tell you something funny.  Mr. Tiriac ask me, Where are you?  I said, What do you mean?  He said, In the draw.  I said, I have no idea.   
You play Serena or someone else?  And I said, Yeah, okay, in Serena in quarterfinals, but it was too far.   
 Q.  So Tiriac told you?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.   
 Q.  You found out from him?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.   
 Q.  That's nice.  But did that take any pressure off you, kind of knowing that you respect her so much and you know obviously she's the No. 1 and dominating and the favorite in that match, did it take any pressure off you for the first part knowing that Serena was looming in the quarters?  
SIMONA HALEP: Till now I didn't feel any pressure.  I just wanted to give everything every match.  I feel, like I said, safe on my body and I feel that I have a chance every match when I go on court.   
I was not thinking about playing against Serena this tournament because it's far for me.  Quarterfinals is pretty far, and you have to win four tough matches to get there.   
If it's gonna be her in the next match it's gonna be a big challenge, and I have just to play my game, to be aggressive, because otherwise I have no chance.   
 Q.  What do you think it is about your game that's the most difficult for her?  
SIMONA HALEP: Oh, I don't know.  (Smiling.)  You have to ask her.   
I don't know.  I feel that I have to play aggressive, because if I let her dominate the game it's gonna be tough for me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT