ROGERS CUP
July 28, 2016
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/K. Pliskova
6-3, 6-3
An interview with:
SIMONA HALEP
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Was it easier than you thought today?  How did you assess the match?
SIMONA HALEP: Actually, I knew that it's going to be tough because I don't get rhythm from her.  You never know what to expect for the next point.  So it's a bit of tension.
But I knew these things.  I just had to stay patient for every ball and to keep fighting because I knew that if I stay there for every ball, she can miss more than me.
Q. Which part of your game are you most pleased with right now?
SIMONA HALEP: Actually, I think with the serve because I am improving a lot.  Now I already got the rhythm a little bit, the timing.  I don't serve very strong, but it's better that I can put the first serve more into the court.  My percentage is higher than normally.
I move well.  I feel good.  I can run a lot.  So, yeah, everything is going in the right way now - finally.
Q. Do you get the sense that you can go the one step further this year after making the final in Toronto last year?
SIMONA HALEP: It's very far to think about that.  I am only in the quarterfinals.  I will have a tough match.  I'm not thinking about playing finals here.  I'm just taking the next day.
I give everything to win.  But you never know at this level.  I'm trying to do my best.
Q. Given your size and stature, what is the biggest difficulty for you with your serve, what you're trying to do in order to make it better?
SIMONA HALEP: In my serve?
Q. Yes.
SIMONA HALEP: I try just to avoid double-faults, because I had many in the last period (smiling).
I just want to hit it stronger.  But I don't have the height to hit it like 200 kilometers.  But, yeah, I try just to be consistent.
Q. Talking about the serve.  Have you and Darren made technical changes to your serve?
SIMONA HALEP: I'm not telling you this.  It's a secret (smiling).
Q. Mentally are you just approaching your serve differently?
SIMONA HALEP: Mentally, yes.  I changed something just before this tournament.  It's not easy because I need time to get used to it.
I serve pretty well these days, also in doubles.  Actually doubles helped me a lot in this tournament.  Yeah, I'm just trying to believe more in my serve now.
Q. Watching your match upstairs at press level, we were watching the spectators in the stands waving fans.  Does that bother you?
SIMONA HALEP: In the beginning, yeah, was bothering me, but just when I had to return.  I was seeing everything down there.  Was not easy.  But then you forget.  You just go into the game.
Q. You don't ask the referee to ask the spectators to stop that?
SIMONA HALEP: No, poor guys.  They just have to have some air.  It's okay.
Q. A fan wants to know a funny story you've had with Darren.
SIMONA HALEP: Funny story?  You know I'm boring, so...  Can I think and I'll tell you tomorrow?  I'm coming anyway.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT