ROGERS CUP
July 26, 2016
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/D. Gavrilova   
6-2, 6-3   
An interview with:   
SIMONA HALEP   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you make of your performance tonight?  
SIMONA HALEP: It was a good match.  It was not easy because it was my first singles match on hard court.  It was pretty fast (smiling).   
So, yeah, I just try to do my game.  I just try to push her back a lot and to make her run.  I think I did well also with the serve.  So I felt good on court.   
Yeah, I'm happy that I could win because I played against her in Rome.  She beat me.  But now I knew how to play against her and what to do.   
 Q.  You looked pretty pumped up, especially in the second set.  You were encouraging yourself with a lot of energy.  Was there a particular reason?  
SIMONA HALEP: Because it was the first match and I needed a little bit more energy to stay focused, to fight for every ball, for every point, because I knew that she's not giving up.   
I had just to stay there focused.  I do pretty much this way, to be energetic and to encourage myself.  I think I was normal.   
 Q.  I have the opposite question.  You seemed actually quite relaxed on court.  That was my take.  
SIMONA HALEP: No, I was not relaxed (smiling).   
 Q.  In doubles yesterday you seemed like you had a pretty good time.  Practicing you seemed pretty chilled out.  How are you feeling here?  
SIMONA HALEP: I feel good, I can say.  I have great feeling from last year, even if was in Toronto.  I feel that I can play a good tennis on these courts.   
Yesterday was a lot of fun and also very tough match because Monica is every time, C'mon, Simona (laughter).   
But I played well.  It gave a little more confidence for the match.   
 Q.  Why don't you play more doubles?  
SIMONA HALEP: I don't know.  It's a tough question.   
Normally I don't want because it's tough to wait to play doubles.  But I spoke with Darren, and he said that normally I should play more because it's better than a normal practice.   
But still I'm not hundred percent that I want to play more doubles.  I'm waiting to get older (smiling).   
 Q.  What is your expectation about this competition?  In Canada, a lot of Romanian people.  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it's not easy to think about what I want to do here.  It's my first hard court tournament.  I just want to get used to it, to play better and better day by day.  I'm just thinking about the next round.  I know it's not going to be easy.   
But I have confidence.  I feel good.  Hopefully I can win matches, but we will see.   
 Q.  Since you're not going to Rio, do you know how you're going to use that two weeks?  Are you going to have a training period?  Are you going home?  
SIMONA HALEP: No, I'm not going home because I don't want to change again the jetlag.  I'm staying close to here and practicing.  I'm not playing another tournament.   
 Q.  Will Darren be with you through the two weeks?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, my team will be with me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT