INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 10, 2016
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








An interview with:
SIMONA HALEP
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Welcome.
SIMONA HALEP: Thank you.
Q. You are on fire again in the last period.  Which is the reason?  Because not always in the last time, because you are increasing your play.  Which is the reason for not good results in previous period?
SIMONA HALEP: I didn't get it.  Can you repeat, please?
Q. Now you have to the top again.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.
Q. Not in the previous period in the same way.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I didn't play the same since beginning of the year, because it was a tough period for me when I started the year.  I was a bit sick, so I couldn't train like I do now.
Now I came back very strong, in my opinion, and I played good tennis in Madrid.  I have more confidence.  I believe in my game.  I started to work much more than before, so I'm all good.  I feel good.
I think the most important thing is that I don't have injuries.  I'm able to practice.  I'm able to play matches.  So that makes me feel more confident on court.
Q. It was seeming Romanian Open in Madrid and not Spanish Open.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, many Romanians.  Also doubles.  They won the trophy, Romanians.  It's nice.  It's a Romanian honor, the tournament.  We felt like home.  I always feel good when I go there to play.
Q. You told once that it was tough for you mentally to stay at top level.  Now the situation is good that the victory in Madrid was important above all for your mentality?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it was very important, the tournament.  Always when you win a big tournament means a lot for you like a player.  I have the confidence back.
Yeah, it's tough to stay there in the top, but now I'm used to be there because I have already almost three years to be in top 10.
So it's good.  It's nice.  I have to keep working every day the same.
Q. Have you had some time to soak in Madrid, the victory?  Have you had some time to soak it in and to actually enjoy it?  Because of the change-around coming over here was really quick.
SIMONA HALEP: Not really, but we had one day off yesterday.  I had one day off yesterday.  I did shopping.  I was relaxing myself.
Now I have to start again to work.  So today I did already practice.  Tomorrow I have match.  The time for celebrating will be after this tournament home.
Q. How different is the play compared to Madrid?  In Madrid you have the altitude and the ball flying a bit more which is something you quite like.  Here you have a bit heavier conditions.  More clay on the court, as well.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it's a big difference.  Today was tough for me to practice.  You know, it's very heavy, the court.  The balls you feel are very heavy.
It's different tennis.  I have to get used to it.  I need few days.  We will see tomorrow.  It's gonna be a tough match for me.
But I have just to play and to get better on these conditions, because French Open are similar like here.
Q. Now we are curious about your shopping yesterday.
SIMONA HALEP: Very good shopping yesterday.  Rome always is a good place to go shopping.
Q. Did you speak with the other Romanian players about the strange situation in Madrid or no?  Because it's not so easy, four players in quarterfinals.
SIMONA HALEP: We didn't have time to speak, but I spoke with my friends.  Not from tennis.  They said it's a good thing for Romania to have -- we are a small country, and we had four girls in quarterfinals.  That means a lot.  And we hope that the juniors will be more confident now that they can see that it's possible to do some good results.  So maybe they are helped by this.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT