AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2020
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/J. Brady
7-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. A tricky opening round draw given how well she's been playing to start the season. What was the key, especially in the first set?
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I knew that she's going to be very motivated at the beginning. We played together a few months ago, and it was very close.
I knew that she has a big forehand. Backhand actually was really good, as well, today. I knew that she's serving well.
So I had just to push her back as much as possible, to make her run, playing a little bit both sides. I served pretty okay. And after that very tough set, in the second set I've been more relaxed. I've been a little bit more aggressive. I tried to finish some points, which I did.
Q. You've had history here in the first and early rounds of playing very big-hitting players who can get hot, falling down, a lot of different things in this match. Did you draw experience from those matches and apply it here?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I remember when I played once against Rogers and she beat me here, Zhang, so big hitters, Stephens. Not easy to play with them at the first moment of the tournament because you are not ready, totally ready, you don't have the rhythm.
But I had experience, and I knew that if I hang in there, I have a better chance to win.
Q. How is your wrist?
SIMONA HALEP: A little bit sore, but nothing dangerous at this moment. So I will see tomorrow morning after I wake up.
Q. Did you feel this was reminiscent of the time that you rolled your ankle?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, two years ago, I don't know why in the first round always I fall down. Maybe it's a good sign. Let's hope for that (smiling).
Q. You might be playing Harriet Dart, your next opponent. What do you know of her? Have you seen her matches?
SIMONA HALEP: I know her, but I didn't play against her. I didn't see her actually playing live. I know it's a tough opponent, like everyone.
I'm not ready in this moment to talk about because I just finished. I will have time tomorrow to talk to my team.
Q. Harriet lost to Sharapova, lost to Barty. Never really done well against the top players. Could that be in your advantage?
SIMONA HALEP: As a top player, it's an advantage and not that much an advantage because everyone wants to get you. But if you think about that, you don't have time to think about yourself.
I will try to focus on my game, to play what I want against her, and then we will see.
Q. Being Wimbledon champion, how has that changed your life?
SIMONA HALEP: Didn't change. Normal. It's just a big, huge thing that I could win Wimbledon. For myself, it's huge. But normally in life, it's the same.
Q. Does it not change you when you're on the court, give you the confidence and belief?
SIMONA HALEP: I had confidence before Wimbledon, as well, because I won French Open, I won so many titles. So I don't stay related to one tournament about the confidence. The confidence is coming with the matches. I feel good on court now.
Q. What's the confidence that you take out of tonight's performance? The first set was very, very physical. It seemed like a very good test of maybe where your fitness is to start the tournament.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I felt great down there. I didn't feel that I'm getting tired, which is a good sign. I recovered after Adelaide because there I felt a little bit weird.
I work hard here. I'm just happy about the way I played and also about the way I moved. It's really important to move well on these courts.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT