MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 6, 2016
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/S. Stosur   
6-2, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  That was quick.  What was your game plan today?  Sure as hell worked.  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, looked like perfect game.  I felt really well.  In the morning actually I was a little bit sore from all the week.  Then I warmed up and I felt really well.  I knew how she plays.  I played many times against her.  Her game fits very well on my game.   
Today with the roof as well was a good thing for me.  I needed few games to get the rhythm and to get the feeling, and then was easier for me to return her balls.   
The balls have like a lot of topspin, and it's really tough to hit it over the shoulder.  So I tried everything to get the rhythm, and then was much easier.   
 Q.  When was the last time that you can remember you played as well as tonight?  
SIMONA HALEP: Long time ago.  (Laughter.)  I don't know.  Maybe last year in USA when I did those great results.  I don't want to think too much about when I played last time as good as today.  I just want to take it like a very good match, a normal match.   
I feel good.  I'm looking forward for the final already.  I just want to stay focused.  After tomorrow I will party.  (Smiling.)  For sure.   
 Q.  Dominika next.  Can you give us your preview of that match.  
SIMONA HALEP: I expect a tough one as well because is the final, and always the last match of the tournament is difficult.  But I have experience.  I feel ready to play.  She plays fast.  She hits the balls.   
So, yeah, I know her pretty well.  I beat her; she beat me.  It's open match.  Everyone can win.  But I will do everything to win it.   
I really want it.  It's my dream to win here.  We will see tomorrow.   
 Q.  How big was the win over Timea do you think for you this week?  
SIMONA HALEP: Nothing special.  Was important because she beat me last time, but I didn't want to think that it's big match that I won.  It was normal, and of course gave me confidence.  I believed more that I can win against tough opponents.   
So it was a good thing for me, but nothing special like big one.  I took it like a normal match.  Like today's one.   
 Q.  Obviously here normally the altitude makes everything go a bit quicker.  What was the difference having to play under the roof, and especially in the evening when it was going to be cooler as well?  
SIMONA HALEP: In my opinion was faster, the game.  Darren told me after the match it was slower, so, yeah, I have questions in my mind now.  But I don't want think about that.  (Smiling.)   
I felt it fast.  I felt it suits very well my game, and I just have to be aggressive, to hit with less power, and put better direction than to hit very strong.   
 Q.  What is the challenge playing Dominika?  
SIMONA HALEP: The trophy.   
 Q.  What makes her game tough?  
SIMONA HALEP: Her game is fast, like I said.  She hits the balls.  She is moving very well.  Of course I think she really wants it tomorrow, to win.  We are in the same position.  Everyone will fight for it.   
But it's a big challenge for me.  Another match, another day, a different day as well, so we will see.   
But I just want to stay focused like today and to do everything I have in my head.   
 Q.  How positive for you was it that four Romanian players this week were in quarterfinals here?  
SIMONA HALEP: For our country I think was a good thing.  It's amazing to be four Romanians in quarterfinals in such a big tournament.  Means a lot.  I hope this thing is going to help the juniors from Romania just to make them believe more that they can be here with us as well.   
 Q.  What makes the prospect of winning here more special than maybe Indian Wells or wherever?  
SIMONA HALEP: Because Mr. Tiriac is the owner of the tournament.  You forgot?   
 Q.  No.  I just needed to hear it.  
SIMONA HALEP: Okay.  I repeat it.  I don't mind.  Yeah, it's special.  Was I think my first biggest final two years ago, so it's special tournament for me.  And also because it's clay.  So everything together.   
 Q.  How much confidence does this run give you regardless of the results tomorrow?  You said you pretty much wanted to not forget about the last clay season, but that the last clay season was a difficult one for and didn't have the result you wanted in Stuttgart but now you got off to a pretty good start.  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, when I came here I said that I have to forget everything about Stuttgart.  Was very tough for me.  I just practiced very hard every day.  Like I said at the beginning, I stayed more on court and I was working more.   
I think that's why I have now the good feeling.  I feel good on clay.  I feel good here.  I'm more relaxed.  I think this is the key, and that's why I repeat and say always, because this makes me more confident.  It's easier for me to play my game if I am relaxed.   
 Q.  Has Mr. Tiriac spoken to you yet?  
SIMONA HALEP: No.  He didn't come to watch me.   
 Q.  That's a shame, isn't it?  Maybe you'll see him at the final tomorrow.  
SIMONA HALEP: Maybe not.  It was a good thing that he didn't come.  But I will see him after the match for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT