MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 5, 2016
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/I. Begu   
6-3, 0-6, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  You know we're going to have to ask.  What happened in the second set?  
SIMONA HALEP: (Laughter.)  Easter present.  What can I say?  Yeah, I played only first game, and then I was out of the game.   
I don't know why.  I have no -- I cannot explain, but I knew that in third set I'm going to be again there.   
 Q.  Could you play as creatively as you did the other day, or did you have to change your tactics again today?  
SIMONA HALEP: It was different because the conditions were different.  Was much heavier, the game, and I couldn't stay there to take it aggressive.   
But, yeah, it wasn't my best day.  Anyway, if I won means that I played good tennis.  I'm confident it was a good match for me.  I take it like a positive one, even if I gave that second set easy.   
I was there until the end, and I'm glad that I could control myself until the end.   
 Q.  You were talking to Darren at the changeover.  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, we spoke.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  You were able to hear Irina getting coached quite loudly.  
SIMONA HALEP: Every point actually.   
 Q.  Did that affect you at all?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, second set.  Why you ask me?  Yeah, affected me a little bit, but I was stronger in the third set and I didn't care anymore.   
I was there just to do my job.  I had a little down in the second set, but now if I take was nothing.  I take it like a positive thing.  It was good that I played one more set.   
 Q.  Obviously you were frustrated in the second set, but what were you saying then between the second and third set?  
SIMONA HALEP: Nothing.  I just forget the second set and I said that now I have to start playing.   
 Q.  Looked like you were more fired up in the third set.  
SIMONA HALEP: Yep.   
 Q.  Was that because you were trying to get the nervous energy out or because you were trying to be positive?  You were excited?  Why?  
SIMONA HALEP: Actually at 3-0 when Darren came I knew it's going to be 6-0.  Then I have just to restart the game like I did in the first set.  First set I played good tennis, and in the third set I just reset my mind and I said I have to start playing again.   
 Q.  Four Romanian players still in the tournament.  How significant has this week been for Romanian tennis?  
SIMONA HALEP: I think it's a big thing for our country.  It's a small country, and four girls to be in the quarterfinals of such a big tournament, it means a lot.   
I am in the semifinals.  Maybe the other two is going to be going in the semis.  It's going to be a good thing.  Yeah, we have just to enjoy it.  We have many fans home, and personal I want to thank them because they were supporting and they were nice today on court as well.   
 Q.  On the subject of four players, we had a little bet with your colleague here that the journalist that had the most players left had to buy the round of beers.  He's trying to get out of it.  
SIMONA HALEP: He has to what?   
 Q.  Can you tell him?  
SIMONA HALEP: I can buy you if you want.   
 Q.  Even better.  
SIMONA HALEP: We'll take that.  Okay.  After the press, yeah?   
 Q.  Okay.  (Regarding Fed Cup semifinal 1973.)  
SIMONA HALEP: In 73 was?   
THE MODERATOR: Chances for Fed Cup.  You're feeling confident?   
SIMONA HALEP: Next year Fed Cup.  We lost this year both matches.  Yeah, we can be confident.  We have a good team always when we play Fed Cup.  In my opinion, with German, we had no luck.  We needed there and there wasn't there.   
But, you know, we have just to try again every year, every time, and to believe that we can be like in semis again, quarterfinals.   
It's not easy to play for a team.  It's different than what we do every day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT