MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 4, 2016
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/T. Bacsinszky   
6-2, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Good revenge?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it was very good revenge today.  It was a nice match, and I'm happy that I could win in two sets.   
 Q.  Looked like a really good moment between the two of you at the net.  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, she told me some words in Romanian.  She told me thank you in Romain and well done.   
 Q.  What do you think was the difference today compared to the match in Miami?  
SIMONA HALEP: First was clay and is different.  I like more to play on clay.  I change the tactic.  I played less power today and I just tried to mixed the game, to be more creative on court, and to open the court better, to play more on her forehand.   
So I did a good job, and I think I adjusted very well my game to her game.   
 Q.  How relaxed do you feel at the moment?  
SIMONA HALEP: Very well.  I'm very happy that I'm in quarterfinals here in Madrid.  Physically I feel very well and I'm waiting for tomorrow.   
 Q.  You're the highest seed left in the competition.  Do you feel there is a bit more pressure on yourself to take home the title?  
SIMONA HALEP: No.  I'm not thinking about that.  It's too far to think about the trophy.  Tomorrow I have a tough match, and three more matches left until you get the trophy.   
It's too far, and I want just to think about tomorrow.   
 Q.  What was the reason for less power today?  Was it just to deal with the altitude?  Just trying something different?  
SIMONA HALEP: It was my plan with my coach.  We spoke before the match and we spoke also about Miami's match.  There I tried to hit very strong, and she blocks very well.  She likes the game when the ball is coming very flat and very hard.   
So I try just to change, to mixed, because I hit the ball today as well, but sometimes I just hit with less power.   
 Q.  Before the tournament you said that you were just wanting matches and to get some matches, but sometimes wins might mean more than others.  Timea is a very good clay-court player.  Does this win mean a little bit more, that your level was good enough to get 6-3, 6-2?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it means a lot this match because I knew she's tough opponent.  I played against her a few weeks ago.  Yeah, I expect a good one.  I expect that I have the game to beat her today, especially on clay, because I like the surface and I like here because it's a bit more harder than normal clay.   
The altitude is there as well, and that's why.  Yeah, gives me confidence, the match from today.  For sure another win means a lot for me.  I just want to keep winning if it's possible.  (Smiling.)   
 Q.  Do you prefer to play more creativity, creating angles and all that stuff compared to having to take the initiative all the time?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I prefer to play more creative, to be more creative on court.  But depends of the opponent.  Sometimes I just need to go to be aggressive.   
Yeah, I adapt.   
 Q.  There are quite a number of Romanians doing well this week.  Thoughts on that?  
SIMONA HALEP: It's a Romanian tournament, I can say.  (Smiling.)  Because of the owner as well.  Yeah, I speak about myself.  I feel like home here.  I feel good always.  I have great memories from 2014.  I just try to make it best tournament for myself.  I try just to enjoy it, because I like it very much.   
Of course many Romanians are on the draw and they keep winning.  It's a good thing for our country.  It's a big tournament, and I think this tournament means a lot for everyone in particular.   
 Q.  Mr. Tiriac happy today?  
SIMONA HALEP: I didn't see him today.  He didn't come to watch my match, so...   
 Q.  Ahhhh.  
SIMONA HALEP: No, no, it's okay.   
 Q.  What do you expect or can you kind of preview the next match against Irina?  How familiar are you against her as an opponent?  
SIMONA HALEP: What did you ask about opponent?   
 Q.  With Irina, what do you know about her?  What do you expect in the next match?  
SIMONA HALEP: I expect a tough match.  She plays well on clay.  I think last year she did quarterfinals here, so means that she likes the court.   
I know her pretty well, since long time ago, but official we didn't play too many matches.  It's a big challenge for me tomorrow.  I just want to repeat my memories from 2014 and that's it.  I expect a tough one.  I expect that I have the chance to win.   
But the match is open, so I have just to try to get my chance and to fight for it, because I really want to go through.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT