BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
January 5, 2016
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Unfortunately Simona has had to withdraw with a left leg injury.
Q. How serious is it?
SIMONA HALEP: I had problems with my Achilles in August/September, and then I didn't feel anymore.
But now I have couple of weeks already again with the pain.  I thought that I'm ready to play.  I came here, you know, like I want to play, to start the year here, but I'm not full.
I cannot have a full match, and I thought that it's more important to be ready and to take a break a little bit.
Q. Obviously got the Australian Open in mind.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, yeah, yeah.  I'm planning also to go to Sydney.  Actually tomorrow I'm going there.  It's nothing dangerous.  I did an MRI and it's nothing dangerous, but it's still an inflammation.  I have just to take a few days' rest.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
SIMONA HALEP: I hope and I want to play it, yeah.
Q. So two weeks ago you got hurt again and you were able to play an hour, two hours?
SIMONA HALEP: I played but I couldn't run like full.  It's tough to go on court playing a match without being 100% full because here every match is strong.  I have to take care of my injury.
Q. Is this the same Achilles that you have been dealing with the entire last year?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, same one.  Yes.
Q. Are you disappointed for the tournament and the people of Brisbane with Maria also pulling out?
SIMONA HALEP: I found out just now that Maria pulled out as well.  I'm disappointed because I'm not playing.  I was happy to be back here in Brisbane.  I like this tournament.
It's always disappointing to be injured, so I just have to accept if and to go forward.  It happened, and we have just to take care our bodies.
Q. Are you concerned you won't be fully fit for the Australian Open?
SIMONA HALEP: I hope, yes.  Normally I should be full healthy because it's nothing dangerous.  But still we have to see, I have to see.  I don't want force it because it's a tough injury.
But, yeah, I hope to be okay to play.
Q. Yesterday you were saying you were very relaxed going into this season and all the preparation and everything.  Does this withdrawal change any of your mentality going into the year?
SIMONA HALEP: It's tough to give up one tournament before the tournament.  But, no, I'm okay.  Actually I say that I have couple of weeks already with this pain, so it's nothing new.
But still, I wanted to play here.  I'm disappointed that I cannot play.  But doesn't bother me mentally too much.
Q. Make it tougher or a clearer choice knowing you would have to play Azarenka in your very first match and she is a player you have to be 100% against?
SIMONA HALEP: No.  Even if Azarenka would lose yesterday I would not play, because when I wake up I had pain again.  It's tough to play a match with the pain; doesn't matter against who.
Q. Does it concern you that this is the Achilles injury that's still ongoing a little bit?  Does it worry you that it's still there and giving you trouble?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I think I'm in trouble a little bit because I have this pain.  This injury is very difficult because it's the strongest tendon in your body, but still when it hurts it hurts pretty tough.
Yeah, it's not easy to manage this injury, but I'm okay.  I'm positive.  I just wait to get recovered soon.
Q. You'll go straight to Sydney and continue preparations?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.  I can practice.  I practiced this week here.  But I cannot run a lot.
Q. How desperate are you to get some match practice before the Oz Open in terms of playing in Sydney and having a match before the Oz Open?
SIMONA HALEP: I really want to have matches before Melbourne because I have already two months without official match.  But I cannot say anything now.  My plan is just to play in Sydney.
But we will see.  It's difficult to say now how I will feel tomorrow or after tomorrow.
Q. Since it's an ongoing problem with that injury, have you had discussions about whether you need surgery on it or anything more serious?
SIMONA HALEP: No, no, I didn't discuss about this.  If MRI, it's okay.  It's just an inflammation, so I don't believe that I have to do any surgery.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT