CHINA OPEN
October 4, 2015
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. Talk about the injury and your decision to call it quits today. 
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I have pain in my Achilles. It's getting worse. I thought that it's getting better and I can play. But no. I don't want to force. 
It's a tough injury because always is dangerous to continue with the tendon. So, yeah, I hope just to recover and to be healthy soon. 

Q. Is this the same Achilles that bothered you last year?
SIMONA HALEP: In 2011 I had the same. 

Q. The same?
SIMONA HALEP: The same, yeah. 

Q. When did you start to feel it first?
SIMONA HALEP: Actually, I felt a little bit in Guangzhou, a little bit in Wuhan, and here was the worst. 

Q. Do you have any concerns about making it to Singapore?
SIMONA HALEP: My first thought is just to be healthy. Of course, every tournament is important. But the most important thing is to be okay, to feel no pain, and then I will see. 
I hope I can play in Singapore. Was my goal for this year. I will see. I need treatment and I need break, for sure. 

Q. Did you consider taking a break after Guangzhou when you first felt the pain in your Achilles?
SIMONA HALEP: No, I didn't think that I need the break just after few days that I felt the pain. All the players have small injuries during the year because we play a lot. 
But here was getting worse. That's why I stopped today. I didn't believe that it's coming to be like this. But, you know, when you play, you still continue to play, it's not good. 
I did this and now I don't feel well with my tendon. 

Q. There are many WTA matches in China. At the end of this year many top players are withdrawing from the Asian swing. Do you feel like at the end of the year you're not physically able to keep up with the matches?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I think all the players in the end of the year are a little bit tired. It's tough to manage these situations. 
But I saw just few retirements. It's not very bad, I think. I can speak about myself because I am in this situation. So for me was a little bit difficult to play because I was tired after USA. I played many matches there, I had tough matches. It's normal. I didn't have time to recover. 
You know, if you want to be in the top, you have to work hard and to be getting better year by year, you know, as soon as you can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT