DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 30, 2015
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

Q. I guess when you came back at one set all, leading the third set, surely you were feeling better and better and maybe close to the win. How did it turn against you at the end? You seemed in control since the second set. 
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I can say I was dominating the third set till 5‑2, then I don't know what happened. I have no idea. What I know is that I lost from 5‑2. 
I didn't lose this way since long time ago. So, yeah, I have to accept. I have to forget it and just to think for the next one. 

Q. You never faced her before. Is her game surprising, the power she has? Was it tough to adjust?
SIMONA HALEP: No, it wasn't tough to adjust. She's a good player. She's solid. She plays well. But wasn't like scary for me. 
It was a good match. She played well. She came back in the third set excellent. Yeah, I was there. I was close to win. I can take some positives from there. 
You know, yeah, it's tough to explain what happened. 

Q. What specifically did she maybe impress you with? Movement, shots, power? What was special about her game?
SIMONA HALEP: Her serve. She has a good serve. She hits pretty strong the ball. She's moving well. I think she's a good player. She's going to be higher in the rankings soon. She started already to win tough matches. So it's good for her. She will be a tough opponent in the future. 

Q. You played on that court last night when the roof was open. Today it was closed. Were the conditions different?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, very different. At the beginning I couldn't adjust my game to the indoor court. But was the same for her, so no excuses here. 
It was nice to play there. It's a good court. I felt okay.

Q. How were the conditions different?
SIMONA HALEP: When it's closed, the air is not the same and the ball is not coming the same, so it was different. I can say was a bit faster because when it's closed, it's faster. But, yeah, it's not a big deal. 

Q. You've had quite a packed schedule of tournaments lately. Do you think that's taken a toll on you in terms of your tiredness?
SIMONA HALEP: Sorry? 

Q. Do you think the number of tournaments you've played have taken a toll on your tiredness?
SIMONA HALEP: I didn't play many tournaments. I think I played what I have to play, important tournaments, good tournaments. 
I am a bit tired, of course. It's the end of the year. I have just to rest now, to prepare Beijing, then to prepare Singapore and holiday. It's all what I want (smiling). 

Q. I would like to know are you making big decisions in big matches, do you feel you will have the right guess in the toss?
SIMONA HALEP: What is that? 

Q. Right guess or right answer. 
SIMONA HALEP: Right answer, okay. 
I don't know. I don't think about that. It's just a toss. Someone can choose who is going to take return of serve. I always take return. It's fine. I think wasn't negative there. 

Q. How frustrated are you?
SIMONA HALEP: Very frustrated (laughter). It's normal. 

Q. Explain why. 
SIMONA HALEP: I can say because I lost from 5‑2. I couldn't hang the match there. I'm suffering that I lost this match. But, you know, sometimes it's good to have this feeling. 
Maybe it's going to help me in the future. It's tough to lose these kind of matches. I cannot explain why I lost now because I'm straight after the match. I have to see. Maybe I have to see the match again. It's a bit bad feeling now. 

Q. Maria gave up the China Open. I remember in Guangzhou you lost. So in China the three matches were not very easy. Is there any upset on the China Open or will that influence the WTA Final in Singapore?
SIMONA HALEP: No, it's not upset in China Open. I lost in Guangzhou because I tried many things to improve my game. Maybe that's why I lost that match. But I played with all my energy. Was so hot there. I was sweating a lot. I didn't take negatives from that match. 
From here, of course, like I said, I'm very sad that I lost this match. I cannot explain why. But, no, I think doesn't affect my Singapore. Is just a match. Tomorrow I forget it and I go ahead. I'm waiting already for Beijing, to have matches there, to try to play my best, and to be ready for Singapore. 

Q. You lost several matches like today this year. Madrid or Rome, I can't remember, to Navarro, then Birmingham and Wimbledon. You lost like this style. Why? Can you tell me why?
SIMONA HALEP: No, I didn't lose like this time. I was leading 5‑2 in the third set and I lost a match? I don't remember this. I lost against Navarro. 

Q. I mean three sets, very close. 
SIMONA HALEP: Everyone is working hard. Everyone is playing good tennis. Doesn't mean that I have to win all the matches. I know that I'm a normal player, so everyone can beat me. When it's tough there in the third set, I know I have enough power to win matches like I did in Toronto, Cincinnati. So I'm not thinking about this. 
Just happened today. I take it like this way. Just happened. Next time I will be better, for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT