U.S. OPEN
September 11, 2015
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
F. PENNETTA/S. Halep   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  She played very, very well today.  Do you feel you just ran into a player who was on top of her game?  Was that your feeling on the match?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it's true she play really well.  She was strong.  She was solid today.  Actually, I didn't play my best, but, you know, she deserved to win.  She was better than me today.  She had more energy.  I can say she was better emotional than me.   
So I accept, and I'm looking forward for the next tournament.   
 Q.  Yourself, this is your best result here.  I know it's shortly after the loss, but can you take a lot of positives?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, of course I take positive things.  I have about 16 matches played in USA after my shit season, Roland Garros and Wimbledon.  (Smiling.)   
So I'm happy with my results here.  I'm happy that I could reach semifinals for first time in US Open.  It's the best Grand Slam this year.   
So I have no negatives.  I just want to take a rest few days and to start again to play matches, tournaments, and, you know, to be like I was here:  confident and with pleasure on court.   
 Q.  You were talking about emotions and Flavia maybe being better with emotions today.  Did you feel flat today?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.   
 Q.  A little bit out of gas?  
SIMONA HALEP: I was flat.  I was like in Wimbledon almost.  Yeah, I was flat emotional and was very tough.  I tried.  It was better than Australian Open when I gave up during the match.   
Here I tried to find a way to play better, but I couldn't.   
So it's okay, and I have to just to go ahead.   
 Q.  Was it a result of basically the matches before, or do you have any explanation for why you were flatter today than you were before?  
SIMONA HALEP: I played many tough matches in USA this period, so is not easy to stay there like 100% every day.  But of course because I played semifinals first time and, you know, I had emotions before the match, I felt them in my stomach.  Wasn't easy to go on court, but I don't want to find excuses.   
Just it happened, and it's normal.  I can accept.  She was better today.  She played really well.   
 Q.  In your last match you said that when the rain came it was a very good time for you.  You needed a bit of a break.  
SIMONA HALEP: Even the snow couldn't help me today.  (Laughter.)   
 Q.  But when last night got canceled, did you feel maybe even those extra few hours might have helped you a little bit?  Maybe more rest would have helped you?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it's tough to answer this question.  Always I accept how it is.  If yesterday was raining, I accept it and I said tomorrow I would be ready to play.   
I was ready.  I practiced very well in the morning.  But during the match is other things, so there are other things there.  The pressure of the match is different.   
So couldn't be there 100%, and that was it.   
 Q.  Somebody in this room the other day asked you about a quote from a previous tournament in which you said you were going to cheer for Serena.  Do you remember?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.   
 Q.  Obviously not if you're playing her, but you're not.  Will you watch the match tomorrow?  Will you root for her to achieve what she's trying to achieve?  
SIMONA HALEP: I'm not gonna watch the match.  I'm going to rest and I'm going to shopping.  It's the best thing to do after this tournament.   
Was a great tournament.  I say, Good luck.  She can do it, also Serena good luck.  Everyone is gonna win, will be a champion here, so it's great for both of them.   
 Q.  And Flavia obviously is feeling very good about today's match and her confidence in the tournament.  Do you think she has the game to beat Serena?  
SIMONA HALEP: It's tough against Serena always, because you never know.  She can play like unbelievable and she can miss a few easy balls.   
But she's a champion.  She knows how to manage every situations.  She has pressure because she has to do this Grand Slam.   
Of course every player has a chance against Serena.  Serena is strong, but Pennetta today played really well.  It will be a good match, I think.   
 Q.  There was a moment in the second set when you are 3-1 ahead, and your Romanian fans exploded there, hoping that you are able to turn the match around.  What happened in that moment?  
SIMONA HALEP: Nothing.  I lost five games in a row.  (Smiling.)  It was tough for me to keep playing at the high level.  I heard them.  I want to thank them for that.   
But was difficult for me to finish that set, to finish eight games in a row.   
 Q.  You played Flavia a few times.  Was this the best you have ever seen her?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, she played her best tennis with me today.  Maybe I let her to play her best tennis.  I didn't put pressure on the game.   
But she was in a good shape and she felt the ball very well.  She did good game, smart game.   
 Q.  North America you won all those matches and now going to Asia.  What did you learn, I guess, in these three tournaments that you played?  
SIMONA HALEP: It's tough now to say what I have learned, but I can say what I have now plus what I had -- I didn't have before.  I have positive things in my head.  I have a good game.  I improved a lot in my forehand.  My forehand is very solid now.  I move better on court.  I'm more relaxed.   
I can win the tough matches.  I won few with top players, so I have confidence.  I'm confident, and I'm looking forward for the next tournament.  I know that I have the chance again to play my best tennis next tournament.   
So it was a good period here.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT