AEGON CLASSIC BIRMINGHAM
June 18, 2015
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. HALEP/K. Koukalova
  6‑1, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Start with your doubles today.   Great win in the doubles, but wasn't looking like that to begin with. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, it was difficult at the beginning because, you know, was my first match on grass, doubles on grass.   It's not easy.   The ball was coming very fast and I didn't know where to hit because I saw both of them there.
So it was really difficult, and I'm really happy we could win this match.   It's really important.   It's good we played first time together, so it's a nice game. 

Q.   And today's match was a good start for you.   You must feel very comfortable with having a fairly good win today. 
SIMONA HALEP:   In the singles? 

Q.   Yeah. 
SIMONA HALEP:   I played well.   I think I started to feel the grass pretty good, so I have confidence in my game now and in myself as well.
She's not playing so bad on grass.   She's playing difficult and it's not easy to return her balls.
But I did everything today.   I served well, and my return went better than first round. 

Q.   Obviously I saw you at times over the clay court season, and it wasn't as good a clay court season as maybe you would've hoped.   What are you doing to put that behind you and focus on the grass and then on to the hard courts?
SIMONA HALEP:   I don't want to focus like I have to do something now on grass, because I did last year.   I just want to enjoy without pressure.
I have no expectation from me this grass season, so I just want to go on court and play what I know.
On clay I had pressure and I couldn't handle it.   I played bad and I couldn't feel like relaxed on court.   So that was the bad thing.
So I just took some days off home and I said that I have to relax my mind and just going on court to play.   That's it.

Q.   How long before you picked up a tennis racquet then?
SIMONA HALEP:   About five, six days I had days off. 

Q.   A good long break then before you came back here. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, yeah.   I had long break I can say between clay and grass court. 

Q.   And looking forward to your next match? 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I'm looking forward to the next match.   I play against Mladenovic.   It's not easy.   She has big serve.   She plays good on grass court.
But it's a new match, a different surface, so I have just to play what I know, to do my game, to be aggressive, and to serve well.   So we'll see tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT