WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2015
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. CEPELOVA/S. Halep
  5‑7, 6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   A tough loss, but what's your reaction after that match?  
SIMONA HALEP:   To be honest, I have no reaction because, like I said at my first conference, that I have no expectation for this tournament.   
Here I am.   
I knew it would be a difficult tournament for me.   But, yeah, I didn't expect to lose in first round.   But she played a good tennis.   She was fighting till the end.   She was aggressive when she could.   
So, yeah, the life is not like every time nice and good with you.   But, you know, I have enough power to go ahead and just to think what I have to do better to have the, you know, good feeling back on court during the matches, and just work.   
   
 Q.   You said you knew it was going to be a difficult tournament for you.   Why did you think that?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Because I had a few losses before coming here.   My confident wasn't too high.   So I knew that, you know, during the matches it's difficult because you feel the pressure.   If you don't handle it there very well, you might lose.   
I knew it would be difficult, but not like today, to be honest.   
So, yeah, it's tough to explain what I feel now.   
   
 Q.   What was your biggest struggle today in the game?  
SIMONA HALEP:   I think emotional.   I wasn't there.   I couldn't handle it very well.   She came back in a good way with her game.   She was pushing me a lot.   She was aggressive.   
But I can say that I let her come in and play aggressive.   
Actually about my game, I have no bad things.   I'm confident in my game.   But emotional and, like, inside power, it's not there 100%.   
   
 Q.   You called the trainer to take a look at your left foot.   Is that an injury you had before?  
SIMONA HALEP:   No, it was about the nail.   The nail came off, yeah.   
   
 Q.   It's okay now?  
SIMONA HALEP:   It's okay.  
   
 Q.   You had a great start to the year.   You won a couple titles.   Once you got to Europe things changed for you results‑wise.   What do you think started this?  
SIMONA HALEP:   That's why I'm saying it's not so bad because I had a good year.   At the beginning of the year I played really well and I had good results.   
Now I had few losses which gives me more to think too much about what I have to do on court, and that's why maybe I'm more stressed.   
My game is there.   I have no problems with my game.   But inside and, you know, emotional I have to work more to take the stress out.   
I want to go on court and say, I don't care what I'm doing, just to go play tennis.   It will come soon.   I believe and I have this confidence.   
   
 Q.   Is your coaching situation also part of the stress you feel, the fact that you ended your collaboration with your previous coach before Wimbledon?  
SIMONA HALEP:   No, no, no.   Not at all.   Just during the matches, I had this in Madrid as well, in Rome a little bit.   But in Rome I was much better.   Paris, maybe because of the pressure.   I have to be used to play a final in Grand Slam and then to be in the situation to defend.   
So next year maybe I will be better for this tournament.   
   
 Q.   You had the incident in Stuttgart where the man was making threats against you and there was more security.   Do you think that might have affected your focus there and the next few weeks?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, can be.   I didn't think about this.   Yeah, everything is coming from outside.   Yeah, it's kind of stress for own self.   Yeah, can be, but not much.   
I'm okay, and I feel, you know, good where I am.   I feel like everything is fine.   
   
 Q.   Genie beat you last year in the semifinals.   Bouchard lost today.   How hard has it been for you to follow up your success that you had last year?   Obviously you've had good results earlier this year.   Does it feel like an up and down that you want to find a level field for yourself?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah.   Like I said, in tennis you have up and downs ‑ many I can say.   I had a good start this year, but now I'm a little bit down.   So I have to work more maybe to run fast back because, you know, like I said, I have the game.   I have no problems with that.   Just the confidence.   If you work on it, you can handle it again.   
Yeah, last year I had good results in Grand Slams.   But this year I won Indian Wells.   My biggest title.   I did semifinals in a row.   It's a very big tournament.   
I'm pretty okay.   I just have to see what I have to do better to come back in my good feelings.   
   
 Q.   After the French you said that you thought you were playing the wrong way with your game.   It sounds like you're happier with the way you're playing.   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I'm much happier now.   I did in the right way, the things.   Before coming here, I feel okay.   It's no problem about my game.   It's 100%.   
   
 Q.   You normally go back to Romania to relax, right?  
SIMONA HALEP:   No, I have doubles here, so, please.   
   
 Q.   Normally you seem to go back to Romania and spend time with family and friends.   Have you ever thought about not doing that?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Today, yeah, I was thinking.   
   
 Q.   Is the pressure in Romania tougher for you?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I can say it's difficult to go there now.   But, you know, I don't care about what the people are saying.   If they say bad things about me.   I know what I'm doing.   I know how hard I work every day.   
So I don't have to explain to someone what I'm doing.   I play for myself.   I play for the country, of course, because I'm still there.   But I just want to handle it very well and just to take the patient of tennis because I love this sport and I do what I think is good for my tennis.   
So after this tournament I'm not sure that I'm going home.   I will see what, you know, examples I have, what chooses I have to go in holiday.   I need a holiday.   For sure I will get it.   
   
 Q.   You say you want to work on the mental side of your game.   How do you do that?   Do you take some time off?   Do you watch videos of past performances?   
SIMONA HALEP:   What about the training?   
   
 Q.   You said you're happy with your game.   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   The mental side of things is what you want to work on.   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   I was wondering how you do that.   
SIMONA HALEP:   Mentally I'm not so down.   More emotional.   I'm a little bit nervous when I have to finish the match.   So like today I won first set.   In Birmingham as well I won first set, then I couldn't win.   
It's just about emotional.   Yeah, I will take rest.   I will speak with my team, with my people who are around me.   I have good people and I'm happy with this.   
Yeah, I don't believe that it's so difficult to come back.   But I have just to work on it.   
   
 Q.   With all of your success that you've had for yourself, also for the country, are you ever surprised at the reaction back home when you don't win a title?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I was surprised, very surprised in the last few weeks, I can say.   But now I'm used to hear bad things about me in Romania.   It's not a problem anymore.   
So I'm used to listen everything, but now I just have my way to go where I want.   I have a goal in this life for tennis, so I keep working and I keep going ahead just this.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT