MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAU
March 29, 2015
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. HALEP/C. Giorgi
  6‑4, 7‑5

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   A very up‑and‑down match, particularly towards the end.   In the second set there were like seven breaks.   Finally you were the one to get the seventh one.   Can you talk a little bit about that?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, it was a strange match because she hits very strong and very fast.   She takes the balls fast, and I didn't have time sometimes to adapt, you know, her style.
But I just tried to move my legs more and just to be aggressive, as well.
I couldn't all the match, but I'm happy that I could win.   She's a tough player, tough opponent to play against.

Q.   It's the first time you reached the fourth round here, I think.   Talk a little bit about ‑‑I know you have been in the third round a couple of times, but Miami and your feelings about the event, talk about that. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, it's first time when I'm in fourth round here in Miami.   I like to play here.   You know, I come from Indian Wells where I won a title, and I have more confidence now to win matches.
I'm just trying to keep my mind very focused and to recover my body every day and with good work, because I need it.   I feel a little bit tired, but it's normal.   I have to accept this.
I'm just looking forward to improve more in my shots, and I just want to hit the serve better and better day by day. 
I'm working, and, you know, I just want to go on court to fight for every chance.

Q.   Talk a little bit about ‑‑I mean, being the champion at Indian Wells, whether it's the men's tour or the women's tour, players have found it pretty difficult to play these two major events back to back and come out of both as a champion. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, it's not easy to play ‑‑if you win a title, it's really tough to play next week again, to start another tournament.
But, you know, I did important step in my career.   Last year when I won a title I withdraw.   I was tired or I was injured to play in the next tournament.
So now I feel okay, and I'm really happy that I can play again next tournament.   I won few matches here, two important matches for me.   It's nice to win a title, but it's difficult to play one more mandatory tournament next week.

Q.   Is it difficult because you're just fatigued from having won, or you're on such a high, and then to go and be like back in the first round again?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, you are very happy when you win a title, and you have to think already to the next match, to the next first round.   So it's tough. 
You don't have time to celebrate or to be happy too much.   You have just to go on court to practice and to train for the next tournament.
I mean, it's okay.   We will have time after this tournament to celebrate the title, so I just want to be concentrated for this one.

Q.   Azarenka or Pennetta; just talk about that next. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, will be a tough match.   I expect a tough match, because they are good players. 
You know, Victoria has already a few Grand Slam titles so she has more experience.
But still I have my chance at this match, and I'm looking forward to play against them.   Doesn't matter which one.   I have just to play my game and to believe that I have my chance.

Q.   Did you expect as much support as you had in the Grandstand today?   Giorgi is Argentinian in part, being Miami and a lot of South Americans, seems like you were just... 
SIMONA HALEP:   Everywhere I go I have many Romanians supporting me.   I can say it's amazing, because, you know, I can hear my name on court.   So it's really nice to hear that.   Gives me more power and more, you know, power to fight and to win a match.
So it helps me a lot, and I just want to thank them for coming.   I'm waiting for them next round, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT