ROLAND GARROS
May 24, 2015
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  S. HALEP/E. Rodina  7-5, 6-4  An interview with:  SIMONA HALEP   THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   Q.  How did you feel about that first match?  SIMONA HALEP: It was a tough match, because it was first round and always is difficult to start the tournament.  But, you know, she played well.  She's playing well. Yeah, I did feel easy mistakes, but it's normal and I accept that.  Next round I will be better, for sure.   Q.  How did it feel walking back out to Chatrier?  SIMONA HALEP: Not easy.  Was tough.  But, you know, I was enjoying a lot.  I tried just to be focused for what I have to do on court to play my game. Many people came, and it was really nice, the atmosphere.  You know, it was a great day for me.  I just want to enjoy it.   Q.  I wonder how you come into the tournament obviously as a big favorite having made the final last year.  How do you approach managing the expectation that people might have, fans and media and everything, and kind of blocking out the pressure and focusing on what you need to do?  What's your mental strategy for that?  SIMONA HALEP: I'm not thinking that if I played the final last year I have to do it again this year. Everyone is playing good here and everyone is fighting to win matches.  So I'm a normal player, and I just want to win many matches here, but, you know, is difficult and I have just to keep my mind very focused for the match which I have to play. So I'm trying to get better day by day and to win the next round.  Just this I have in my mind, and it's good.  I manage very well.   Q.  I have seen you in several tournaments with quite a big entourage, a lot of friends and family with you, big dinners.  Do you do that in the slams, as well, or is it more in the smaller tournaments?  SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, everywhere I do.  So it's not -- I don't have like there you come and there you don't come.  Here I have only my team, only my manager is with me, and a few friends.  But my family is home, and if I play good they will come.  We will see (smiling).   Q.  Last year you missed by not so much, but in this year, what you could say that you changed as a player, as a person, also?  SIMONA HALEP: I'm stronger, I think, mentally, and I'm stronger, as well, on court.  I feel stronger -- I have stronger body, and the game is, I have improved a lot in my game.  Serve is better, so I feel more confident now with my game. But still, you know, it's about the match, about the opponent.  So I have to be focused and to train every day hard and, you know, to be ready when I go on court, because every match is important, and every match is difficult because everyone is playing good tennis at this level.   Q.  What do you remember from that US Open match against Mirjana?  SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I have not good memories from that match, because I didn't play my match.  I just was blocked and I couldn't hit the ball. But now I feel much better.  I feel that I have my chance.  It's another match, another day, so I will train and I will speak with my team about this match, and I will see how I have to play.   Q.  And did you feel like that match was more you just weren't able to play well, that you were nervous, or was there something particular that she did that caused you problems?  SIMONA HALEP: First I believe that I was very nervous and very -- I had the hand blocked, but she played really well that day, and she got confidence after first set, after second set when she won it, and she hit really well with her forehand.  I will, maybe I will see again the match, and I will think about how I have to play.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT