QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 23, 2015
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you tell us a bit more about the injury?   Was it something that happened in Dubai?
SIMONA HALEP:   Before the tournament, Saturday, during the practice, I had a big pain at my rib and it was really tough to move my body. 
But then I had a few days off and I started tournament like, you know, I wasn't 100 percent, but I just wanted to try to play and it went well.   I just tried to play like everything I can during the week, and it went very well for me. 
Now I still feel it and I think it's more than before, so that's why I decided to stop.

Q.   And have you been told it should be okay if you stop for a week or two?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah.   Normally it's like ten days maybe I need to recover my rib, and then I will be okay to play.   I hope to play Indian Wells 100 percent.

Q.   How disappointed are you to miss the event here?
SIMONA HALEP:   I'm very disappointed because it's very important tournament for me.   Last year here I won my first biggest title.   This tournament gave me a lot of confidence during the last year. 
You know, it's always tougher when you have to withdraw because you have pain and it's not nice.   But I have just to take care of my body and to look forward to the next tournaments.   We have many tournaments, so I just want to take the positive things from last week.   Yes, of course, it's a big injury for me, my rib.   It's first time when I have this problem.   But still I won the tournament and I'm happy because it's very important as well, the tournament from Dubai last year from Doha.   I take the positive things and I hope to be recovered soon.

Q.   I guess to make it to number one in the world is a big goal for you.   Is this a huge step back for you? 
SIMONA HALEP:   I don't think, it's not like my goal to be number one in the world.   Of course it's one of my dreams, but more I want to win a Grand Slam or to win many titles.   So if Serena is still playing, I think it's tough to be number one.

Q.   You think you are getting closer to that goal? 
SIMONA HALEP:   If I play good, if I'm healthy and if I win titles, yeah, I can be very close.   But still I don't want to think about this because it gives me pressure and I don't need pressure now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT