DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 17, 2015
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. HALEP/D. Hantuchova
  6‑2, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   How difficult is it to focus against a player who obviously is not playing at her very best?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, is not easy.   First of all, is not easy to start a tournament.   She had a match before, so it was better for her.
But, you know, I think she was a little bit tired because she came from Pattaya.   She played good tennis there.   Here I was more fresh maybe, and I was running very well.   My shots were very, very strong and very deep.
I played good tennis, and I'm really happy that I found, you know, the way to win a match here in Dubai. 

Q.   I was wondering, how are your ribs feeling?   I heard they might be hurting a little bit?
SIMONA HALEP:   No, I feel okay.   I need to recover from this match.   I feel good, and I'm waiting the next round.

Q.   A 3‑Love record against Daniela.   What is it about her game that suits your style?
SIMONA HALEP:   I think I like to play against her, because she doesn't hit very strong.   She hits without power and long, deep.
But I like this style, and I have time.   I feel that I have time to do my game, to be more aggressive and to finish the points.
So that's why maybe I have few matches won against her.

Q.   What do you like about being in Dubai?
SIMONA HALEP:   What I like?   Being in Dubai? 
I like the weather and the shops, big malls here.   (Smiling.)   I feel good.   But it's first year after two years in a row where I couldn't play my tennis, so now I feel happy and I feel ready to continue this tournament.

Q.   As you said, you haven't played that many matches here in the past.   Are you comfortable on center court here in these conditions?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah.   Today I felt very well on court.   I hope tomorrow will be the same I think for me.
But, you know, every match is difficult here, so I have to be careful and to be very focused. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT