AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 25, 2020
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/Y. Putintseva   
6-1, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions please.   
 Q.  Was that the match you expected, or did it go differently than you envisioned it?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I expected this match. I knew how she's playing, but she played a little bit stronger with the forehand than I expected.   
But, yeah, I knew that I have to attack her serve, to serve well, because she's hitting well the return. So, yeah, it was pretty much I thought about.   
 Q.  Did she surprise you with the dropshots? Did you make any adjustments? You ran down a lot of them.  
SIMONA HALEP: I knew she's a very good player with the dropshots. I got a little bit frustrated because I got them, most of them, but I missed them or I just put the ball back and then she passed me.   
So, yeah, it was a little bit of frustration there. But after, I paid more attention to her shots, so it was much better in the end.   
 Q.  You may play Elise Mertens in the next round, she's a set up against CiCi Bellis. What can you tell me about her, and if you play her, what you have to do against her?  
SIMONA HALEP: We played few times in the French Open I think we played, in Madrid I think we played, once in Doha. We played many times, so it's enough to know how she's playing and what I have to do against her.   
I didn't think, to be honest, about the match yet, because it's too quickly. Actually, we have to wait for her to finish.   
But I will be ready for the match. And I have to fight. Even if she's playing great I will be there ready to play.   
 Q.  What did she do well in Doha when she beat you?  
SIMONA HALEP: If I remember well I was up set and a break, so I think she's fighting till the end, she never gives up. She has a good game, like she plays fast, close to the baseline.   
 Q.  Some of the big names have started losing: Serena, Naomi, Pliskova, Bencic. I'm curious when that sort of thing happens and you're still here, is that more exciting?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I'm not focusing on others, as you know. I know at this level everything can happen, so that's why sometimes I'm a little bit stressed, sometimes I'm relaxed, because everything can happen.   
It's just a tournament, and I'm sure that for you guys it's a little bit of shock when the top-10 players are losing, but it's life and we cannot be 100% every day.   
So we go ahead, and if I'm still in the tournament, it's a good thing (smiling).   
 Q.  How much did you watch of yesterday? Did you catch any of the matches from yesterday of Serena, Coco, Roger? Did you watch any of it?  
SIMONA HALEP: No, I didn't watch. I was walking in the city a little bit to relax myself. So when I am off the courts, I don't watch tennis that much. The TV is there, but I don't pay attention.   
But I heard Federer had a great match. So Millman was great. Congrats to him.   
 Q.  You said you're focusing on yourself. I wonder what you think about the WTA Tour at the moment with a 15-year-old playing that big, a 29-year-old retiring, the way older woman chasing the Grand Slam record, and the Belgium former Grand Slam champion wanting to come back. I just wonder how you, as a top player, seeing all that development at the moment.  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, it's kind of a mixed, big mix here with the 15-year-old that is winning matches in a Grand Slam and makes it look easy.   
And 29-year-old retiring, so I'm very close but, yeah, I hope not yet (smiling).   
Yeah, but also we have 38-years-old still playing, Serena. So I cannot really comment on this because everyone has their own feelings about this sport.   
What Coco Gauff is doing in this moment is a great thing. I'm sure that she gets a lot of confidence, and soon she will be able to win one of these big tournaments.   
And about Kim I think, no, you ask, it's really nice to hear that she's coming back. I played once against her and I lost. Maybe I will have another chance to play against her, because actually, she was a model for me growing up, seeing her, you know, ambition and also the way that she's playing without fear and going for the best things during the matches made me a better player.   
So I look forward to see her on tour back.   
 Q.  You might not pay close attention to the other matches, but you do know the top players are losing. Does it ever cross your mind, Oh, it's like a domino, I'm going to be next?  
SIMONA HALEP: I hope not (smiling). I'm not thinking about the game here. I just take the responsibility on my game, and I have expectations for myself, but I know that everything can happen, as I said.   
So I'm ready for everything, and I'm ready actually to fight for every match I play.   
 Q.  On Caroline retiring, I'm curious if you ever thought about not when but how you want to go? Do you want to have a big tournament where everyone knows it's your last tournament, or do you want to just send a text message saying, Hey, you're not going to see me again?  
SIMONA HALEP: Honestly I was talking to my brother yesterday about this. I don't know. I didn't think yet but probably will be like her, just announce that this is the last tournament and then I will be off.   
I cannot say that this is the last year, because I change my mind pretty often. So it's not good. I will do it probably before a tournament, and then I will be (demonstrating) out of this world (smiling).   
 Q.  Naomi before the tournament was saying that one of the things that happened when she won a major was that now she knew how difficult it was to win a major, once you complete it. That maybe sometimes the stress of that, learning how to deal with it, because it's so hard to do, that when you go back to another slam you have to deal with the pressures and stuff. How have you learned to deal with that? Do you see it kind of the same way or was it actually easier that once you did it, you're like, Oh, I can do it again?  
SIMONA HALEP: No, it was different because I played few finals before, and actually I felt that it's really tough to get one. And after I did it, I felt like, Okay, it's possible. Everything, it's possible.   
So maybe I relaxed a little bit more. And I don't see that these tournaments very high that I cannot touch them.   
So I feel more confident, and I feel that actually I know that it's really tough to get match by match and to win seven matches, but I know it's possible.   
So makes me feel a little bit more confident.   
 Q.  Up till now, what are you most pleased with in your game?  
SIMONA HALEP: I think I have improved in my serve. Also the return looks pretty good.   
I go to the net. I have some dropshots included in my game, so it's a big step. I'm happy with my game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT