DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 19, 2015
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 S. HALEP/E. Makarova
  6‑3, 1‑6, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   What was the difference between the match in Australia and the match tonight?   Because that match in Australia was just 4 and Love.   This was different.   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah.   You know, was different surface, first of all, and here was like different.   There I couldn't feel the ball at all during the match, and here was like better for me, I think.   Here I was fighting till the end.   In Australia I didn't, and, you know, when you are not fighting you lose the match at the beginning of the match.  
So I just tried tonight to play my best, to be like a little bit aggressive because she's playing very well if you hit the ball strong.   So I tried ‑‑sometimes I tried higher balls, and I tried just to change every time the tactic.   
So I did well and I'm really happy that I could finish in the right way and to win, because it was a tough match.  
   
 Q.   Why do you feel it was going up and down?   First you, then her, then back again?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, during the match there are ups and downs.   It's not easy to control all the match.   She's a good player.   
I played really well in first set, and then in second set just she started to hit stronger, and I think I did the one step behind the baseline more and wasn't too good for me.  
Then I just tried to relax my body and to come back to go forward to the court and to take the ball faster.  
So I did everything on court today, and I'm really happy that it was a good match for me.   That means a lot, because I need matches now.  
   
 Q.   Were you wondering when you were going to finally convert one of those match points?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I was a little bit nervous to finish.   I don't know why, but, you know, sometimes you feel like that.   So you have to stay very focused and to fight for every point.   
I did well, and, you know, in the end I just was very happy when I finished the match.   I said just, Okay, now I did it and I have to relax it all.  
   
 Q.   How frustrating was it when you didn't serve out the match?  
SIMONA HALEP:   How frustrated I was?   
   
 Q.   When you were serving for the match.   
SIMONA HALEP:   At 5‑3?   Yeah.   I didn't believe in my serve at that moment, and I just tried to finish very quickly and wasn't good idea, because it was a little bit of rush.   
I was very nervous, and I wanted just to hit winners.   It's not possible at this level, and she's a good player.   You know, is not easy.  
But, yeah, I just stayed very focused and I tried just to be very close.   At 5‑All I said that I have to relax my hand to serve like I did in first set and it was good.  
   
 Q.   If you were to take any positives out of today for the rest of the season, what would this be?  
SIMONA HALEP:   That I was fighting a lot and I was fighting till the end.   That was the most important thing for me tonight, and, you know, match by match I will find my good form.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT