BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS
October 26, 2014
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/S. Halep
  6‑3, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   It was a great start to the match for you, and then suddenly seemed to change midway throughout the first set.   She won the last eight games.   What do you think changed the momentum? 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I had a good start.   I had 40‑Love I think at 2‑1 to finish, to make 3‑1.   I couldn't that game.
Then, yeah, I was a little bit nervous.   I was tired a little bit and I couldn't make the step into the court and to, you know, open the court to play more aggressive.
I gave everything today, and, you know, that was my level today.   Wasn't my best day, but I'm still happy and I'm still enjoying this moment because it's a good moment for me. 

Q.   How would you describe the change in her game over the two matches? 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, today she was much stronger than me.   She had more power.   Yeah, I knew that she will be more motivated during this match because, yeah, we played few days ago and I won that match.
You know, it's not that bad that I lost today.   I'm looking forward for the next year, next tournaments.   She's the best.   She's a great player, and she deserves to win the title. 

Q.   How much of today was just the difference of playing in a final?   How much does that make the match feel different?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I was nervous before the match that I have to play this big final.   Yeah, I couldn't manage very with the situation.   Still I made good first set. 
Second one wasn't too good, but she played really well and she was hitting the balls very strong.   Everything, it went well for her today, so I cannot explain anymore.

Q.   How much did the win before factor in knowing she was going to come back and go twice as hard this time?
SIMONA HALEP:   I think you have to ask her about these two question, because I cannot explain.   She was more motivated and more focused maybe this match, and she tried to hit the balls very strong.
Like I said before, every day is a new day, it's different day.   So we saw today that was different day.

Q.   Was it on your mind at all? 
SIMONA HALEP:   What? 

Q.   Knowing that she would maybe play better this time. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I knew she will play better this match because she saw how I play, she saw what she has to do during the match.
So she did really well today.

Q.   Like you said on the court, you still had a great week and it's tough to be sad.   Can you talk about your emotions right now?   How do you feel? 
SIMONA HALEP:   I have no power now to have emotions anymore.   I feel okay.   I cannot say that I feel happy.   Every time when I lose I'm sad a little bit. 
Yeah, I have to enjoy this result.   It's the best result.   It's second after Roland Garros final.
I have just to think about my holiday now.   I go home, so nothing else.   I am okay. 

Q.   Do you think that she was on a mission today other than winning the title?   Do you feel a little bit of regret not to throw the match against Ivanovic so you didn't have to come to this match?
SIMONA HALEP:   No, I have no regrets, because I did my job on court against Ivanovic.   I tried to win the match.   I couldn't, but I never thought that I have to lose in two sets against Ivanovic.
That was the chance.   She deserves to win the title.   She's much better.   So, yeah, it's okay.   I have no regrets. 

Q.   What would you say was the biggest difference between the first match against Serena and tonight's match?
SIMONA HALEP:   It was different because I couldn't stay there and stay focused to fight for every point.   I was tired after first set and my arm was a little bit down, so... 
Yeah, I expected tough match.   I knew that she will play better.   It happened.   And, yeah, I have just to look forward. 

Q.   What do you think you need to do to take that next step?   What are you going to work on between now and next year particularly?
SIMONA HALEP:   Tough question because I have holiday now.   Maybe to work more in the gym to be stronger, to have more power.   My serve didn't work very well today, but I knew because I was tired.
I improved a lot this year, this period, so I'm happy with my game.   Still I have to work more to the shots, to the serve, and to the return also, because the return is very important for me. 

Q.   Why do you think you were feeling tired?   Just the last match of the year?   All of it?   Just this week, or something else?
SIMONA HALEP:   I think I am tired because I played many matches this year, a lot of pressure every tournament.   I did great results.   This was the last tournament of this year.   Many tough matches here with top eight players, so wasn't easy.
But still I think I did a great job; I did a great result here.   I'm happy, and, you know, I don't want to take the negative things.   Only the positive and to go ahead. 

Q.   Off‑season now.   Do you have any plans aside from partying?
SIMONA HALEP:   Like I said, holiday.   I go home and I take a rest.   I will rest like two weeks, three weeks, and then I will train again for the next year.

Q.   Still party?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I will do.   I don't forget that I beat Serena this week, so...

Q.   A few days ago Billie Jean King said that the first time she watched you play that she had the feeling she was watching a champion?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I'm glad to hear this.   She knows about tennis a lot and she knows what she's saying. 
Yeah, for me it's important to hear those things, those good things about me.   I'm still young.   I have to improve more and to win more matches, more titles if I can.
So I continue my way, my hard work every day to go to be a champion in one day.   But we will see if will happen. 

Q.   You got up to No. 2 this year; Grand Slam final.   What are your hopes for next year? 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I can say that my dream is to win a Grand Slam, but I don't know if I can next year.
I want just to be focused for every tournament, to take very important ‑‑ every tournament to be very important for me. 
I want to improve more in my game, and then we will see what is going to happen.   I want to remain in top 10 next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT