APIA INTERNATIONAL SYDNEY
January 13, 2015
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Simona is going to withdraw with a gastrointestinal illness.   Very much looking forward seeing you here, but understand these things do happen.   We wish you the best of a speedy recovery for the Australian Open.   
SIMONA HALEP:   Thank you.   
THE MODERATOR:   We hope to see you back here next year.   
   
 Q.   Did it come on in China, or...   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, during the tournament in China I got this problem with my stomach.   I feel like I cannot play.   I was waiting till today to see if I'm ready or not, but I really cannot play.  
So it's tough to start the tournament, and I decided to retire because I think it's the best way.  
   
 Q.   Better to have this illness this week than next week?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah.   I hope to have ‑‑ what did you say?   
   
 Q.   I guess the positive is you're sick this week and not next week.   
SIMONA HALEP:   A, yes, sure, because it's a Grand Slam.   But I feel sad now because I cannot play this tournament.   I came here to play all the tournaments so it's not good to stop.  
I have to recover first myself and then to think about tennis.  
   
 Q.   How many days have you been ill?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Few days already.   
   
 Q.   Are you happy otherwise with your preparation going into Melbourne?   
SIMONA HALEP:   I didn't play for three days already, so, yeah, I had a good start in China.   I played well match by match, and I feel prepared to start the Grand Slam.  
But still first I am thinking to be ready to be recovered of myself, to feel better with my stomach, and then I have time to think about matches from Melbourne.   
   
 Q.   What does the doctor say about how long it will take?  
SIMONA HALEP:   You never know with the stomach because it's something inside.   I hope that two, three days more and then I will be ready to play again.   
   
 Q.   I imagine take a lot of confidence out of last year?   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I am confident now after also China, because I won few matches there and it was a good start.  
Last year I did some good results, but now it's another year, another start.   So I have to be confident and to believe that I can do many more results.  
But every match will be tough, and also the pressure will come.   
   
 Q.   How was your off‑season?   
SIMONA HALEP:   Very good.   I was home.   Yeah, I stay with my family.   I had Christmas at home.   
So I was working very hard also with my fitness coach and with my coach.   So everything went well.   You know, I feel happy with my game now.  
   
 Q.   Were you working on any particular part of your game?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah.   I can say that I worked with my serve and I was improving a lot.   I saw first week in Shenzhen that I served better than last year.   I was working on my body also to be stronger.  
Yeah, it was a complete work, like everything I worked.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Were you ill during the final in Shenzhen?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I was a little bit sick before.  
   
 Q.   How difficult was it to get through that match?  
SIMONA HALEP:   I don't know how I played, to be honest.   It was like I think adrenaline and I just wanted to win the tournament.   
I didn't think about myself too much, just to play that match.   I did it very well.   
   
 Q.   I imagine you were dehydrated, because that's part of gastroenteritis.   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I am.  
   
 Q.   Were you feeling dizzy on court?  
SIMONA HALEP:   I feel like I cannot play at this moment, so I have to rest.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT