DONGFENG MOTOR WUHAN OPEN
September 21, 2014
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Welcome to Wuhan.   What do you think so far, and how has your time in China been so far?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Thank you, yes.   It's really nice to be here first year.   So the organization is very nice and very good here so far.   So I just want to enjoy this tournament here and to play my best, to do everything on court to stay long here.   
   
 Q.   Welcome.   This year has been for you really a special year.   You have got a really brilliant achievement.   We want to know what's the magic on you and what happened.   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yes, I can say that it's a special year for me, because I reach the finals of a Grand Slam in Roland Garros and I did some great results.   
But I don't have like a secret key.   Last year I started to play well, to win some titles.   I just was more relaxed on court and was enjoying every match.   I was fighting for every ball, every point, so I think that was the secret if we can say that was a secret.  
I feel good now.   You know, my confidence is not very high now, because I lost in US Open very fast, but still I feel the game.   I feel my body very prepared to play the matches.   I'm looking forward just to find my confidence again.   
   
 Q.   We know that six days later is your birthday.   Could you tell me a little about your birthday wish you have?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah.   I like the flowers, so I hope to receive many flowers, maybe some presents.   But I am very far from my home, so it's not that possible, but when I go home, back home, I will make a party maybe and I will receive flowers and presents.  
But I am happy that after one week it's my birthday, and I will enjoy the day, of course.   
   
 Q.   It's been a stunning year for you, as someone just said.   You have already qualified for the end‑of‑season's Championships.   How do you keep that momentum going forward?   And also, if you could just comment on your qualification to the Championships.   
SIMONA HALEP:   It's very special for me that I am qualified to Singapore.   Last year when I played Sofia, I told my parents that my dream is to play the big, the big one, the big Champions tournament.   
I tried everything to qualify there, and I just wanted to play with all eight best players in the world.  
So I will have a little bit of emotions there, because it's the biggest tournament.   For me it's first time and it will not be easy.   I enjoy every match.   I have nothing to lose there, just to play my best, to try to play my best and to do everything.  
It will be a special moment, and I will enjoy for sure.  
   
 Q.   Since you already achieved that milestone, how do you see that momentum?  
SIMONA HALEP:   How I prepare the tournament?   
   
 Q.   Now you have achieved that milestone of reaching the Championships, how do you continue this remarkable form you have had this year?   How are you going to continue the momentum?   How are you going to maintain this momentum going forward?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I hope to build my confidence again in myself to 100%, because I have reasons to be with my confidence very high, because I played really great this year.   I just have to work every day like always and to believe in myself that I can play very good level in tennis.  
So I'm looking forward for every match to fight and to build my confidence again.   
   
 Q.   We all know this is Li Na's hometown and maybe one hours later she will call a conference about her retirement.   Would you like to say something to Li Na?  
SIMONA HALEP:   First of all, I want just to wish her all the best for rest of her life, because she's very kind person.   I played two times against her, and I practiced few times with her.   
She's really nice and was very good player, very special, because every time her speeches were very funny in the end.  
So she was very, you know, concentrated always when she was playing and also during the practices.   I liked her, and at one moment few years ago I said that she's like a model for me, because I liked a lot how she was playing, her shots and everything.  
She moved very well on court.   She was a great player, a real champion.   Of course I wish her all the best and to be happy for the rest of her life.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT