U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2014
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  M. LUCIC-BARONI/S. Halep  7-6, 6-2   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  Obviously very disappointing for you.  If you can talk about the match and kind of what didn't work for you today.  SIMONA HALEP: She played really well today.  I mean, after I had 5-2 and the two set points, she came back really well and she started to hit every ball.  Everything was in for her. It wasn't my best day, but still I did everything I could on court.  She was better than me today, so I have to just to keep working every day hard and to look forward for the next one.   Q.  Were you a bit surprised at the level that she played?  SIMONA HALEP: Not really, because I knew she was hitting the balls very strong.  She's tall and she serves well.  So I knew that she's a good player. But still, like I said, I wasn't in a good mood also.  I didn't play my best today. But she deserves to win.   Q.  Just considering the level of play that you came into the tournament with and so forth - I know you never have expectations; you want to take it one match at a time and this is why - but how disappointing is it to not get beyond this stage?  SIMONA HALEP: It is, because, you know, on the papers I was the favorite for today to win this match, but every day, every match is another match. So I have to take, like I said, always match by match.  I know that in tennis is not easy to think that you can win the title.  Everyone can beat you. I understand.  I accept this situation.  I have just to go forward, because I had many good matches, many good results this year.  So is not big, you know, problem that I lost today. It happened, and I have just to continue my way to go far.   Q.  She's been through so much in her career.  I know obviously it's a disappointment for you.  But can you be happy for her at that level, understanding how much she's been through and how long it's been to come back for her?  SIMONA HALEP: I don't know exactly her career because she's older than me for many years and I don't know exactly. But of course I can say I'm happy for her because she played and she deserves to win.  I wish her good luck for the next rounds. She plays really well, and, you know, when you play well you deserve to win.  So was her chance today, and she took it.   Q.  When you say that you weren't in a good mood on the court, did you come to the court more nervous than normal?  SIMONA HALEP: Well, I started pretty good the match.  I had 5-2 and two set balls.  I started aggressive.  I played well.  But after that, after she came back really well.  I couldn't hit very long the balls.  So was too short, my game. But it happened, and I have just to take like it was.  Good mood I didn't have because, you know, sometimes after you lose a set from 5-2 you lose a little bit of the confidence. But still I tried everything I could.   Q.  So from here on out, do you know what your schedule is for the rest of the year?  SIMONA HALEP: Asia.  Yeah, China.  I will go to play there.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT