WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2014
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BOUCHARD/S. Halep
  7/6, 6/2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.  
   
 Q.   How did you feel you played?   When you were a bit injured at the beginning of the first set, how was your condition during the match?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, it was difficult to continue because I twist my ankle and was very hard.   I felt a big pain in the moment, but then was better with the tape.   
But still I couldn't push anymore in my leg.   My first serve was really bad after that.   Yeah, it was difficult to continue with another injury.   
   
 Q.   Was there a prior injury or it happened during the point?  
SIMONA HALEP:   No, during the point.   I didn't have before, yeah.   
   
 Q.   How much did the distraction in the tiebreak in the first set put you off your game?  
SIMONA HALEP:   It was okay.   I understood the moment, that moment, because can happen.   I just wanted to stay focused.   
I served really well at 3‑2, but then was a lucky ball I think she hit with the net.   She came back really well.   She played well.   
So I think was important moment at that point.   Then I lost a little bit my concentration.   
   
 Q.   You played her not so long ago.   On this surface and in her game, have you noticed any differences in her level, what she's doing?   Has she improved in the last couple of months?  
SIMONA HALEP:   She played also well when we played together in Indian Wells.   But, of course, here, this surface, is better for her I think because it's faster and she's staying very close to the baseline.   She hitting the ball very early and very fast.   
Yeah, I think she improved more maybe in confidence.   She has more confidence now and more experience because she played well also in French Open.   
So she's a great player, and for sure she will be in top very soon.   
   
 Q.   With the net cord and the ankle, did you think it wasn't going to be your day?   Is it hard not to think like that?   
SIMONA HALEP:   Is it hard, yeah, to stay focused, to play every point, because you are a little bit afraid after injury.   But, you know, sometimes doesn't matter the injury or everything, just to play the match.   
I think I played till the end, but in second set I lost my energy and I couldn't believe anymore that I can finish the match in the right way for me.   
So maybe next time I will do better and I will stay more focused till the end.   
   
 Q.   I know you had a problem with the ankle, but can you explain why you feel you lost your energy in that second set?  
SIMONA HALEP:   As I said, in tiebreak was a lucky ball at 4‑2 and she came really well back after that.   
After losing a set, it's really tough to say, Let's play two more to win with two injuries, I can say.   
I lost my energy because I am a little bit tired also.   I played many matches.   After French Open was really short the time to recover.   But, you know, I'm really happy that I could play semifinal here.   Is my best result in Wimbledon.   
I cannot be sad now.   I just want to enjoy this result and to look forward to play many more matches at the Grand Slams.   
   
 Q.   What will you take away from this tournament and what are your goals for the rest of the year?  
SIMONA HALEP:   After this tournament I can say that I have more confidence in myself that I can play also on grass good tennis.   I feel good.   I am happy.   
So next week I have tournament home.   I can't wait to go there because I will enjoy for sure with my fans, with my friends.   
After that I will go in USA.   It will be tough another half of year.   Just to enjoy every tournament and to take care of myself because I am a little bit tired now.   
   
 Q.   You said you had two injuries.   What was the second one?   You had tape on the leg.   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, muscle pain.   I had during the practice before third round, yeah.   Just was contracted at the moment.   But now I just feel a little bit.   Is not dangerous but is still there.   If you have something, it's bothering you always.   
   
 Q.   Can you feel from your side of the net how determined she is, how focused she is?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, she is very focused.   She's tall.   When she stays very close to the baseline.   It's like you see just her on court.   
She's moving really well so she's everywhere on court.   She's a great player.   Yeah, she played well today.   
   
 Q.   You said you think she could be at the top very soon.   Why do you think that?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Because she has a good tennis and she hits very strong.   She serves also very well.   
She has the game to be there, I think.   
   
 Q.   You had great success in the three majors this year, but you're a little bit tired.   How are you going to keep that success going and at the US Open?  
SIMONA HALEP:   With one week break and one week holiday I will be for sure 100% again.   
I don't feel very tired.   But it's normal after a few matches on grass to feel your muscles tired.   I will do some few massages and then I will be okay.   
I don't worry about myself that I will be tired after few weeks.   So I feel good.   
   
 Q.   You mentioned she's tall.   Does she just look bigger than other players when you're playing against her?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Not really bigger.   But her position on court makes you to see her more, you know.   Her style is to stay very close to the baseline.   At the return also she stays very into the court.   
So I played with many players very tall like Kvitova, Sharapova.   So is bigger than them, but still you feel her on court.   
   
 Q.   Will you have a break after Bucharest?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Yes.   I will go on a holiday.  
   
 Q.   Where are you going to go?  
SIMONA HALEP:   No, I don't tell you (smiling).   
   
 Q.   Beach or...   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yes, beach.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT