ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2014
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. HALEP/H. Watson 
      6‑2, 6‑4

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Just wanted to check with you, first of all, physically you must be doing well, because you played your first two matches very well, but I know you had that withdrawal in Rome.   Are you 100%?
    SIMONA HALEP:   Yes, I feel very well.   I'm 100% here.   That's why I stopped in Rome, to be ready to play here.
    I feel good, and, yeah, I had two good matches here.   I'm happy that I could finish today.   The second set was a little bit difficult.   I was a little bit nervous.
    But I served well, and that was good. 

Q.   With the way the draw is, a lot of people see you as a favorite here, title contender.   Does that make you feel different about the tournament?   More pressure? 
    SIMONA HALEP:   How I feel because... 

Q.   Do you feel like a lot of people see you as a favorite to contend for the title?   How does it feel to be in that position?
    SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, a little pressure, but I want just to stay focused for every match, because here every match it's very tough.
    It's a tough tournament, and I have to play my best, to do everything on court match by match, and after, I will see how far I can go. 
    I expect every match difficult, so I cannot say that I'm thinking about the finals or something like this. 

Q.   Changing the subject a little bit, I was curious to get your thoughts.   When you score a big upset, like last year with Radwanska or Jelena Jankovic or some of those big wins you got last year, and then you had to go play your next match, how hard is it to kind of approach the match after you scored a big upset?   What's the hardest thing about it?
    SIMONA HALEP:   When I played against Jankovic and Radwanska last year?   I played on a clay court at Rome, and I beat both of them.
    So there was my start to play well.   So I had more confidence ‑‑at that moment I said that the clay is my favorite surface, and then I played well also on hard court.
    Now it's a bit different, because I'm also top 10.   So when I play against them, it's more pressure.   They want to beat me, I think, more.   They are more focused during the match.
    So it's tough now to play now.   I just want to keep the pleasure, to keep very cool my body and myself.   It's not easy to manage these top 10, but you manage the best moment of my career and I have to enjoy this.
    Every match, it's tough, and of course it's more difficult to play with the top players. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT