ROLAND GARROS
May 27, 2014
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. HALEP/A. Kleybanova
      6‑0, 6‑2

    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please. 

Q.   Is it a different feeling for you to be on Chatrier to start the tournament as the No. 4 seed?   It's much different than maybe a year, even a year and a half ago?
    SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, it was amazing to play on Chatrier first round.   It was my first time on this court.   It's so big.   I had the experience because I practiced two times on Chatrier, and also the Kids' Day two days ago. 
    It was nice.   I had a good feeling.   I started really well this tournament.   For first time, I didn't have emotions after I entered on court. 
    So I felt really well, and I'm happy that I could beat her in two sets and pretty easy sets.

Q.   And very close to 6‑Love, 6‑Love.   Did you think you were going to do it?
    SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I was thinking at that moment at 5‑0 that I can win 6‑0, 6‑0, but wasn't too good.   I was a little bit relaxed after that, and it was cold.   I felt a little bit in my back.
    But I stayed focused after two games lost, and then I served really well, and I did my match.
    I think I did well today.   And she's a great player on clay.   On hard she's better, because I played on hard court against her, and I beat her more difficult than today, but it was more difficult than today.   But today I felt really well and I had a good feeling at the ball and at my game.
    So I'm happy.   I have to keep focused for the next round.

Q.   You're playing Britain's Heather Watson next.   I know you played her at the US Open last year.   What are your memories of that match?   I know you weren't massively happy with it. 
    SIMONA HALEP:   I could not forget because I played around three hours and 30 minutes.   She was very strong at that moment.   It was difficult match, but here it will be clay court, so it will be different.   It's another day, another match.
    I will try again to be aggressive, to do my game, and to try my best, as always.
    I will fight for every point, and I expect a difficult match.   But I'm ready to play for the second round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT