MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 11, 2014
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 M. SHARAPOVA/S. Halep
  1‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations anyway for being in the finals.   Did you have time to analyze what happened?   Do you have any regrets or are you happy with your week anyway?  
SIMONA HALEP:   No, I don't have regrets because it was an amazing week for me.   It was my biggest final here.   For first time always it's difficult to win the match.  
But I'm really happy that I could play the final here in Madrid.   I played really well all week.   I beat top layers and I had a very high level of my tennis.  
Maria is a great player and a great champion.   She played really well, and I think she deserved to win this title.   I think it's her third final here in Madrid.   
So I don't have regrets.   I'm just happy.   I want to be happy, because my result, it's very big.   I mean, it's really, really nice to play final at the biggest tournaments.  
   
 Q.   What do you think was the difference?   
SIMONA HALEP:   The different I think is the experience.   She has more experience than me.   In first set I was very relaxed.   I just try to play, but she did many mistakes.   Then she came back very well.   She knows how she can come back very well during the match.  
I couldn't serve very well today, but that's tennis.   That's the life.   I have just to be happy because of this tournament which make me very happy.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations for the tournament.   Your relation with Virginia Ruzici, it's still there?  
SIMONA HALEP:   She's my manager.   
   
 Q.   After today's match do you feel like it's a learning experience to understand how to compete with fellow top players, and most importantly, how to manage to win those kind of matches on big occasions?   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I learned a lot of things today.   She's a great competitive girl.   She's fighting every moment, every point.  
I was a little bit tired today, but this final, it's like a victory for me.   It's not that I lost something.   It's very big, this tournament, and for me it means a lot.   It's very special.   
Of course I learned very many things here, and for the next time for sure I will manage better the situation.   
   
 Q.   Do you ave any expectations for Roland Garros or match by match or what?   
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, match by match.   I will see how I feel.   First I have Rome.   I will play there.   Then after two weeks I have French Open.   
So I don't think too far.   Just match by match, and I will see how far I can go there.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations on your great tournament.   After winning the first set, did you get nervous, or was it just the game of Maria that made the comeback?   
SIMONA HALEP:   No, I mean, I was very relaxed in this final.   I didn't have many emotions.  
Just I started very well the match, but she came back very well.   She deserves the title because she played really well today.   
I wasn't nervous and I wasn't nothing, so it's‑‑ I played my style.   She hit very strong the ball, and for me was too difficult to go long with the balls.  
She beat me, so I'm happy.   I have just to enjoy this moment.   
   
 Q.   I understand the season still has a long way to go, but what is more important for you:   to try to win your first Grand Slam or try to qualify for the year‑end Championships in Singapore?  
SIMONA HALEP:   Good question.   Both of them.   Is it possible?   I think the dream of every player is to win a Grand Slam, but also this tournament or more tournaments are very important for us.  
For me, it's very important, this tournament and many tournaments.   It's very important to play in Singapore this year.   I hope I will be there.   Of course to win a Grand Slam is not easy.  
It's too far to think about this.   If I can choose, I want to choose a Grand Slam.   (Smiling.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT