AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2014
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. CIBULKOVA/S. Halep
  6‑3, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   After playing such a good match against Jelena did you find it hard to recover for today?
SIMONA HALEP:   No, just I couldn't play today.   I had emotions, big emotions, and I couldn't manage this.   Before the match I was very nervous and I didn't feel the ball at all.   I couldn't move my body and I couldn't play. 
But she played really well today, and she hits all the balls very strong and she moves really well. 

Q.   Would you say it was a lack of experience?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I think yes.   It feels like I didn't prepare the match very good, and my mind was very down before the match, very‑‑ my body was very tough, you know.   I couldn't stay relaxed on court.   I couldn't also be happy on court. 
So I want just to remain positive and take this results like something good.

Q.   You expect to be at this level for many years from now on.   Doesn't that relax you a little bit, thinking, Okay, this is not my only chance?   I will have many. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I think I will have many chances to pass quarterfinals in Grand Slams.   But I have to work hard like until now.   So I have my chances in this career and I want to get them.   I want to be more prepared before the big matches.
So I have to work, hard work. 

Q.   What do you take out of today moving forward?   There will be other opportunities.   What do you learn today that you can use next time?
SIMONA HALEP:   I learned that I have to be relaxed before the match, because is just a match.   I don't want to think anymore that it's quarterfinals of Grand Slams. 
Don't put pressure anymore on myself and just to enjoy the match.   Because I did really well for few matches, and the last year also few tournaments I enjoy the every match and I did really well.
Today I couldn't enjoy, and it was a big shit for me, this match.

Q.   You came here without a coach, right? 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yes.

Q.   I heard that you may be Wim Fissette that worked with Clijsters?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yes, my manager spoke with him.   In Paris I will meet him for first time.

Q.   How did you meet him? 
SIMONA HALEP:   I didn't yet.   No, in Paris next tournament.

Q.   So you haven't met yet?
SIMONA HALEP:   No. 

Q.   Do you feel you lacked the support, the guidance to prepare you for today? 
SIMONA HALEP:   I mean, it's not easy to have the people who you need on every time before the matches.
But I think myself has to improve more in this relaxation before the match and to be ready for the match. 
I cannot say that I need now a coach or somebody who I like to be with me.   But I think my mind needs to relax more before the big matches. 

Q.   Again, on your future coach, what do you know about him? 
SIMONA HALEP:   I know he work with Kim Clijsters and Sabine Lisicki.   Just this.   I will know him after this tournament and I will see how he's going on.

Q.   You had a great tournament.   You must be happy on reflection of the first four rounds. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yes, I am happy that I could play a quarterfinals here in Grand Slam.   Was my dream before this.   I don't want to disturb my mind very much this shit today, this match. 
But I just want to enjoy the day and to go home very happy.   I have to enjoy my best result in Grand Slam. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT