NEW HAVEN OPEN AT YALE
August 24, 2013
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. HALEP/P. Kvitova
  6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions for the champion, please. 

Q.   Yesterday you were talking about your dream.   You said the next step is to try to get into the top 20. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, that was my dream.   Now it's real.   I'm really happy that I played so good tennis today, incredible tennis and beautiful tennis.   She played also great tennis today. 
I have to enjoy this moment.   It's unbelievable for me.   I feel really, really nice.   Really, really great now. 

Q.   Winning so many titles now on so many different surfaces, how do you adjust your game to each surface?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I was just talking to about my coach.   He told me that I won on all surfaces this year, the titles. 
I just enjoying every match.   I try my best and I'm more aggressive now.   I hit the ball stronger than before.   I just take pleasure and I'm relaxed on court. 

Q.   You were down 15‑40, she had two chances to break you, and I think you broke her four consecutive service games.   What happened?
SIMONA HALEP:   Just wanted to be focused every point.   I didn't think about the score.   I hit the ball.   The serve was really good for me today.   My return, also good.   I played really good. 
I think she didn't play her best tennis, but I just tried to do everything on court today. 

Q.   You seemed very calm toward the end of the match.   I wonder where that level of confidence comes from. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I'm more confidence now.   I just try to keep going this good feeling on court.   I have to enjoy next week because will be tough.   I'm a little bit tired.   But it's US Open, and I have to enjoy it and to play my best.   There it's every time nice to play. 

Q.   Where were your goals at the beginning of this year? 
SIMONA HALEP:   I don't think that I'll get top 20 this year, but I'm really happy and I'm a little bit surprised because I played really good this period. 
For the future, for this year, I want just to play every match, match by match, tournament by tournament.   I want just to play my best at Sofia.   Will be nice there.   I hope I enjoy it. 

Q.   How do you refocus for the US Open?   You haven't made it past the second round. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I played last year and I won first round.   Now will be difficult because I played really good here.   But I think I will play good there also. 
I just want to be relaxed because it's good feeling now, good moment for me.   I want just to live this great moment.   It's so nice to win the tournament, premiere tournament. 

Q.   Does that make a difference, premiere tournament?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yes.

Q.   Does it feel more special?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yes.   It's bigger and I feel more special.   I'm more happy now than the others. 

Q.   One of your biggest wins at a slam was over Li Na at the US Open.   What is difference about the US Open and how do you feel about the atmosphere of New York?
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, I played against Li Na at US Open and I beat her.   I played really great tennis at that moment. 
There, it's a crazy city, but in a good thing.   It's nice.   It's different, like everywhere.   I want just to enjoy and to go in the city tonight maybe to celebrate this winning, to enjoy. 

Q.   Where does the trophy go?
SIMONA HALEP:   With me.   I don't want to send home.   I want to keep with me. 

Q.   You leave court and you go to TV, then you come back.   You haven't done that very many times. 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, was the first time when I did this thing.   Was incredible for me because I was speaking a lot.   Everybody were congratulating me.   So it's nice.   I hope that I will have more of these things. 

Q.   Are you more nervous on TV or on court?
SIMONA HALEP:   At TV I am more nervous (smiling).   On court I feel very natural, natural game. 

Q.   Cirstea had a good run a couple weeks ago in Toronto.   Can you talk about your relationship with her. 
SIMONA HALEP:   We don't speak so much.   We are tennis colleagues.   But she played really, really good tennis there, good result.   I wish her all the best and good luck at the US Open.   She can make good result at the US Open.   She plays really good. 

Q.   Do you follow that? 
SIMONA HALEP:   Yeah, we are about six girls in top 100.   We play really good and we are fighting girls, as I told you.   We try to play the best on court and we are focused every match and every point.   We are fighting a lot. 

Q.   How big news is this going to be back in Romania?
SIMONA HALEP:   I don't know.   I don't know if they know about Sofia because nobody told them.   I think I will be sure there now with this tournament. 
I will see after the Sofia to speak with them.   But it's great to play there.   It's first time.   I will enjoy, for sure.

Q.   Have you received any messages from home, from your family?
SIMONA HALEP:   A lot of messages, but I didn't read.   I didn't have time. 

Q.   How many?
SIMONA HALEP:   I don't know, but a lot.   I spoke with my family and with the people who supporting me every time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT