CHINA OPEN
September 29, 2019
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/R. Peterson   
6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Seems the back was fine again today. Can you explain how do you recover from Wuhan and now you played really well?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I'm not 100% recovered. I still feel pain. It's, like, getting blocked after a while. But today I was very relaxed. I didn't force, I can say. I knew how I have to play against her. I think I played smart. I played what she doesn't like. That's why I was able to win.   
She did some mistakes, more mistakes. Yeah, it was a good match for me.   
 Q.  Based off today's performance, how do you feel about going into the second round?  
SIMONA HALEP: I feel great actually because with injuries it's never easy. I was a little bit down before this tournament because it's happening again, like last year.   
I'm really happy I could win. The way I played makes me happier.   
 Q.  I noticed this morning you practiced a little, 15 to 20 minutes. In the past few weeks, were you trying to reduce some workload in order to protect your body or just keep the normal routine of your tennis?  
SIMONA HALEP: It's true, I practiced less than normal because of the back. Since I came here, I didn't practice much. But it's just because of the injury. Normally I work harder. I do my full practice.   
But, yeah, now these days is a little bit tougher because I struggle with the injury.   
 Q.  Is it mentally a bit tough to play with limitations like this because you know how you can play? Like, I can't do this, go there? Is it risky at all?  
SIMONA HALEP: It is risky, but it is not that dangerous. That's why I decided to go on court and to play. Always when you have an injury, it's little bit risky. But I accepted it. I took the risk.   
I just tried to stay focused, to stay calm, to try to play what I have to play. It was tough to serve today. It went pretty well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT