NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 27, 2019
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KERBER/S. Halep
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. When Angelique is seeing the ball like that, what can you do?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, exactly.  She played really well today.  I didn't play bad.  I think that I missed a little bit too much in some points, important points, and I didn't take my chances.
Also, in the second set, first game, I had 40-15 on my serve and I couldn't take the game.  But in my opinion, it was a good match.
Q. What are your thoughts now?  You have had a few good matches here and also up against the defending Wimbledon champ to cap it off.  Where do you feel your grass game is at?
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I cannot say that I feel it 100%, but I'm getting better, I think.  I changed some things during the match.  I do different things, which makes me happy.
I have one more match tomorrow, doubles, and then I go to Wimbledon.  Expectations are pretty okay in my head, but I don't put pressure.  Just match by match, and we will see how good I can be on grass this year.
Q. At least you forced her to bring out her very best game.  How near your best game were you?
SIMONA HALEP: I'm not so good with the percentage, but I would say 70 on grass.
Q. So more to come?
SIMONA HALEP: In my opinion, yes.  I missed a little bit too much today, and I was not patient because with her, you have to be a little bit more patient.  She's very strong on the baseline, and you have also to change something.
So today I think I played wrong in some moments, and that's why I couldn't, you know, couldn't take the games and couldn't take the lead a little bit in the match.
Q. Of course your crosscourt backhand goes straight onto her forehand, and there were some fantastic exchanges to work out whether your backhand is better than her forehand crosscourt.  It's about even, isn't it?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, she feels it very well there.  And for me is a little bit, yeah, not good because she hits forehand from there.  My backhand cross is really good in this moment, and I have confidence on that, but she hit so many good points today, and she got the confidence after those.
Q. A few days ago you said that you would possibly skip the Fed Cup if the format changes.  Today it was announced the Fed Cup will get the same format as the Davis Cup, so I was wondering if you would give any thoughts about it?
SIMONA HALEP: I already said if they change I don't want to play anymore, because Fed Cup for me means home and away.  And that feeling, nothing can give back, so nothing can exchange that.
Yeah, I keep my word.  I said that few days ago and I say the same thing.  I don't know what is going to be in the future, but in this moment I don't want to play if they change it.
Q. As I understand it, the February tie will still be home and away.  It's just where Romania is ranked governs whether or not they go automatically to a final.  Given what you talked about the Olympics and how important a medal is, will that influence your decision?  Because don't you have to qualify by playing certain amount of Fed Cup matches?
SIMONA HALEP: I played every year since Rio, so I'm qualified already.  I think so.  You have to play two times, I think, the rule.
Q. So you can get away with it?
SIMONA HALEP: We will see (smiling).  But you said in February it's normal?
Q. In February it's home-and-away tie.
SIMONA HALEP: Okay, then, yeah, we will see.
Q. But it depends where you're ranked.
SIMONA HALEP: We will see.  I will tell you when I will know for sure what's going on.
Q. Angie's movement is a key part of her game, but moving on grass is very different.  Is there something you spot in her game she's doing better on grass?
SIMONA HALEP: Her game is very flat, and she has a big advantage because the ball doesn't bounce on grass.  And also, she has strong legs, so she can run.
In my opinion, she feels the court.  She feels the surface.  That's why she's very confident on it.  And also, the short angles I think help her a lot on this surface.
Q. You had some success coming to the net today.  Is that something you're looking to do more on grass?
SIMONA HALEP: Yes.
Q. And presumably the doubles helps get that part of your game sharp?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I can say that.  That's why I decided also to play some doubles.  I need to change some things on grass court, and I'm trying.  So let's see how long it takes to get confident.
Q. Going to play any doubles at Wimbledon at all?
SIMONA HALEP: No.
Q. Your dropshot is working.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, so I have some changes (smiling).
Q. Serve-and-volley specialist to come?
SIMONA HALEP: Oh, that's too much.  We don't exaggerate.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT