NATURE VALLEY INTERNATIONAL
June 26, 2019
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/P. Hercog
6-1, 4-6, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Was today busy enough for you?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, definitely.  I'm a bit tired.
Q. How do you feel?  On the one hand, it's about getting matches under your feet, but this seems to be a hectic day.
SIMONA HALEP: It is okay.  Singles was pretty tough.  And in doubles was a little bit weird because of the wind.  I didn't really feel the ball in the first set.
But I got used to it.  Raluca played much better.  She could cover more court for me.
I think it was a good day, two victories.  I take it (smiling).
Q. Hercog was hitting some huge winners and huge shots.  What was it like facing that kind of tennis?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it was not easy at all.  I knew actually that she's gonna hit very strong, and her forehand today was pretty, pretty strong.  Serve also, 118 miles.  It was really tough to return.
But I knew that I have to stay strong on my legs and just not being very defensive.  So I tried to stay as much as possible close to the baseline.
Q. What did you change after the second set?
SIMONA HALEP: This.  I change, I wanted to be more aggressive, and I also opened the court better.  I didn't give her angle.
Q. You have Angie next.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.
Q. It's bonkers that still feels early in the tournament.  Well, quarterfinals.  But your thoughts on facing her.  Have you seen her play while she's been here?
SIMONA HALEP: No, I haven't seen her playing, but I know that she likes to play on grass.  She won Wimbledon last year.  She definitely has confidence on this surface.
But for me, it's like nothing to lose.  Tomorrow I just want to go there to try to win the match, to get used more and more to this court.  Hopefully I can win.
But doesn't matter the result.  I just want to play good tennis.
Q. Does a game like today where you're getting a really competitive match help speed up your process for getting used to the grass court and competitive games?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, for sure.  Helped me a lot today.  But Kerber is playing very different than Hercog, so it's going to be different tennis.  But I'm ready to face her.
I know that all the matches were very tough against Kerber, and long.  Hopefully on grass they are not so long.  But, you know, it's another day, another match.  I hope just to enjoy it and to try to play better than today.
Q. Mentally, it must help, as you were saying today you had to think about things after the second set.  That's getting the mind active and prepared.  How important is that for you?
SIMONA HALEP: It's important, because when you have a tough moment during the matches, also in Wimbledon I will have, for sure, I will be better.  I will be ready to change something, to realize by myself because there is no on-court coaching.
Today was a good day because was, like, up and down a little bit, and also that I was in trouble a little bit in the second set was really good for me.
Q. You talked a little bit in the pretournament about how maybe grass has been a surface that you have had to kind of get your mind around.  Do you feel that that confidence in this surface is coming back to you?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.  I don't feel bad on this court, but you never know what to expect.  So this is a little bit tough for me, because my game is pretty clear, and on clay court I can slide.  Here is not easy to run.
But I tried to play flatter a little bit, to play slice.  I have been to the net a little bit today.  I try to change some things and to improve my game on grass, because it's different and I need an update.
Q. Going into Wimbledon last year, it was such a quick turnaround after winning your first Grand Slam.  Obviously you didn't have time to celebrate.  What's different about your mindset going in this year?
SIMONA HALEP: I lost in quarters in Paris, so I had enough time to chill (smiling).
It's different because I am different.  I see tennis different now.  I see the tournament different.
My goal is just to be well on court and to try to play my best tennis every time I step on the court.  I'm not thinking of the result anymore, but I'm still motivated.  So this is the change.
Q. I'm not going to call you old, but do you feel more mature now, having achieved everything you have achieved to this point?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I feel more mature.  I feel older a little bit, because I feel my body sometimes.
But it's a good thing.  I'm in a good position, in my opinion, even if I didn't win a tournament this year.  I feel happy on court, and I'm sure that it's gonna come if I keep working.
Q. How much would it mean to you to do well at Wimbledon this year?
SIMONA HALEP: A lot, because that gives me confidence that I'm able to play well on this court, as well.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT