QATAR TOTAL OPEN
February 13, 2019
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/L. Tsurenko
6-2, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. It was a little bit tricky in the second set?  But you turned it around after that really long rally.  Just take me through the match.
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, it's been a good match.  Even if I was 3-1 down, I got myself together and I just -- I have been more focused after I lost those games, and I came back stronger.  I'm happy that I could win in that way.
Q. I think you're like 6-0 against Tsurenko.  I'm curious what it is that brings out some of your better tennis.
SIMONA HALEP: It's always tough to play against her, because she doesn't give pace.  She has a strange game in the direction that she feels the ball really well.  It's not easy to hit the ball from her balls.
Yeah, it's always tough, but I got the feeling against her, and maybe that's why I can win every time I play against her.
Q. It's your 12th victory here in Doha.  You're going to play against Julia tomorrow for the first time.  You won over her twice and she won once.  Is there something that you need to change in your game or adjust for tomorrow?
SIMONA HALEP: Well, it's tough to adjust something after one day, so I will try just to adjust myself to her game.  I will see on court.
It's really tough to say now what I have to do.  I know that she has a big serve, has a big forehand.  I will see, and I have to be confident because I feel good on court.  I have good mood, so I have my chance.  I will fight for it.
Q. How cold is it outside there?
SIMONA HALEP: Very cold (smiling).
Q. Do you feel refreshed and fit?  You think this again is a chance for you to clinch the Falcon Trophy again?
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I wish I can do that, but it's never easy.  I have so many matches ahead.  I want just to think about tomorrow.
It's a tough one.  If I can win, then I will take another one.  But for the moment, I just enjoy the time here.  I enjoy the fact that I feel good and I can play good tennis.  Today was a good day, and I feel happy.
Q. How difficult is it to go from playing the heat in Australia to going back to Czech Republic playing indoors, and then coming back here playing outdoors again?
SIMONA HALEP: It's difficult.  It's difficult and you lose a little bit of timing, the touching.
But today it was really good, and I'm happy about that.  Normally I adjust myself fast.  If it's the same surface, it's easier a little bit.  But still, when you change the temperature is not easy for the body.  But I feel good and I feel confident that I can play better tomorrow.
Q. Karolina Pliskova was in here earlier talking about how difficult it is, how she would much prefer to have a week between Fed Cup and going back to playing a tournament.  Do you feel the same?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah.  It's going to be much better if that happens.  It's really exhausting to come straight from Fed Cup for playing a tournament.  It's not easy.  It's better if we have a week off between.
Q. You said before that you're in a good mood.  How often does it happen that when you have to play the tournament that you're not in a good mood?  What do you try to make you be in a better mood then?
SIMONA HALEP: No, if I'm in a bad mood means that I'm tired and I have maybe a little injury.  But normally, in the last few months, years maybe, I have a good mood when I go to tournaments.  I enjoy more tennis.  I enjoy more life.
So I feel happy.  I feel good.  But when you have something that it hurts you, then you have a bad mood  and you cannot do much, but you try to motivate yourself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT