BNP PARIBAS WTA FINALS SINGAPORE
October 20, 2018
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: He questions, please.   
 Q.  Does it feel like a little bit of a bittersweet end to the year having to pull out, or when you look at the whole year, do you think, Yeah, I haven't done that?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, is not bad at all, but I still feel sad that I cannot compete here.  But with injuries, you cannot play or you cannot fight.   
So it was the best decision for me, for my health.  I don't regret it, even if I am very sad.   
 Q.  What have they told you about the process to heal the injury?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, they said that I need a break, around three, four weeks.  And with the treatment, physiotherapy, and also exercises, medical exercises, should be okay.   
Actually is nothing sure, but what is sure is that I don't need surgery.  So that is a big positive.  I will take care of it.  I have enough time.  If mentally I will be okay and rested, I think it's going to be better.   
 Q.  So how long will you stay here before you go home?  
SIMONA HALEP: I will go soon.  I don't stay for a long time.   
 Q.  How are you feeling physically right now?  Is it really just down to how you're feeling on the court?  Is movement during the day kind of difficult for you?  How would you assess the pain?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, the pain is not that bad when I don't play.  So I have some moments when I get blocked still, but it's not that bad as I'm playing tennis.   
I try to enjoy this time.  Last night I have been to the draw ceremony.  It's nice to see from a different way.  Now, for sure, when I will feel sick before the matches, I will say that it's better than to staying in the crowd.   
It was also a positive that I have been here last night, and I really enjoyed it.  It was different.   
 Q.  Singapore was your first WTA Finals in 2014.  What are some of your earliest memories from that week and how important was that for you?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, this tournament I think for everybody is important, because you play with the best eight players in the world.  It means that you had a good year, a great year, qualify for this event.   
For me, actually still means a lot, because I qualified five times in a row.  It's a special event.  Hopefully next year I can qualify again.   
 Q.  Can you put your analysis hat on now since you're not in the tournament?  Having seen the draw come out yesterday and also knowing the field of eight players, what do you make of this field and who do you tip to win the title?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, it's tough, because every match is like a final.  Always I said that at this tournament.   
I can say I see some players that have a bigger chance, actually Wozniacki because she won last year and I think the court suits her.   
Petra has a big chance.  Osaka has a big chance.  I think everybody has a big chance.  You never know.  Also the emotions will play a big thing.  We will see.   
But I'm not gonna watch, just to tell you.  No, not even one minute.   
 Q.  Do you exactly know when you will be able to take the racquet again?  Is it going to impact in a big way the offseason, which is a crucial moment for any tennis player?  
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I don't know exactly now when I will start again, but I want just the beginning of December, as usual.   
I hope it's gonna be okay.  I have enough time.  I have one extra week now.  So I'm positive.  So we will see.  I will see at that time.   
 Q.  How do you look back at this year?  Is this your best year for your career so far?  
SIMONA HALEP: Yes, the best one.  Winning a Grand Slam and finishing No. 1, I think it's the most that I could ask for.  I had also tough moments, because in Melbourne it was really tough to go over and to come back stronger.   
Also, I'm proud that I could come back stronger and I could make a better result.  So I think definitely, actually, is the best year of my career.   
 Q.  What are you most looking forward to for the offseason?  How do you plan to spend at least the actual offseason, not the preseason stuff?  
SIMONA HALEP: Holiday, holiday, holiday (smiling).  But starting the next day that I will arrive home I have to start the treatment, so I will be in the gym every day.  That's not something that I will love.  But I have to do that (smiling).   
I have about four destinations where I'm going, so I will enjoy it maximum.  Because I need the holiday, and now I'm more relaxed with everything.  So I will be okay.   
 Q.  Wimbledon said that they will go to a 12-12 tiebreaker next year.  What's your thoughts on that?  
SIMONA HALEP: I think sometimes enough is enough.  So it's good to have a break and to play the tiebreak at that score.   
 Q.  Do you think it would have been better if they just went with the standard 6-6 tiebreaker?  
SIMONA HALEP: No, it's more exciting to play longer.  I don't know if I will get there.  I got there in Melbourne, but it was the first time and the only one time in my life.  But 12-12, I think it's a good score.   
 Q.  Last night you received your year-end award from Jennifer Capriati.  Had you met her before?  
SIMONA HALEP: No, first time was last night, and I was very honored to receive it from her.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT