ROGERS CUP
August 11, 2018
Simona Halep
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. HALEP/A. Barty
6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I want to talk about the match, but before I need to ask you if you had any conversations with the WTA since your comments last night?
SIMONA HALEP: Well, that was yesterday.  I think I talked enough about it.  I was upset, of course.  I hope in the future it's going to be better.
For the moment, all things are okay.
Q. This was your first time playing Ash.  What did you make of her game?  What do you think was the key to winning today?
SIMONA HALEP: I think I played smart tennis today.  I pushed her very back on her backhand, then I could just receive a shorter ball, an easier ball for me to open the court.  Then I just went all the way also on her forehand, short, cross, long, everything.  I played some slices.
I think the match was a very good level of tennis even if the rhythm was a little bit mixed.
Q. How would you rate today's performance to the other three you played this weeks?
SIMONA HALEP: Every match is different.  I cannot really rate it.  But it was one of the best so far this tournament.
Q. Considering how many matches you've played in a short period of time, it seemed like you didn't have any problem with energy today.  What did you do to prepare for this match on a short break?
SIMONA HALEP: Well, I think you see that I had no problems, but I had some problems (smiling).
I was very sore when I woke up also.  During the match it's not easy to run so much.  But, you know, I just tried to focus on what I have to play, and to make it a little bit easier, which I did in the end.  Was much better to finish it.
Q. You broke right off the bat in the first set.  You did that again in the second set.  How important is it for you to get a break like that early in the set to get going?
SIMONA HALEP: Yeah, I broke, but then I lost the serve, so I was a little bit upset about that.  It's really important to win on my return, the games on my return, because I feel really confident on that thing.
Then in the second set when I broke, I just said I have to hold my serve, which I did.  It was much better in the second set.
I feel like my return is growing up.  I have more confidence.  Actually when I started the tournament, I was really down with my return because I couldn't feel it.  But now I'm at a good level, so I'm happy about my game.
Q. How long did it take before you came back with a better mindset than when you met us at maybe 10:00?
SIMONA HALEP: How I was with my mind after?
I am the same now.  I was upset.  I am upset.  But doesn't change my performance on court.
Q. This is going to be your second straight final in Montreal.  Can you take anything from 2016 to apply it tomorrow?
SIMONA HALEP: The experience and the great moments that I had two years ago.  It's always nice to play here, always I say, and I feel it.  Probably is going to be a similar match 2016 if Stephens wins.  If not, against Svitolina we know it's tough match every time.
I just want to give my best tomorrow and to enjoy the final because it's a great thing after a long break to play final at a big tournament.
Q. You now have 22 hours until your next match.
SIMONA HALEP: The most, no, since I started (smiling)?
Q. What is the plan for the next few hours?
SIMONA HALEP: I will rest.  I will go and just staying in the bed, eating everything.  In the last days I didn't eat much.  I will watch maybe a movie.  I will stay on Instagram, as usual.  Just chilling, nothing special.
I don't know actually when I play tomorrow.  If you know, tell me.
Q. 1:30.
SIMONA HALEP: Good.
Q. The fact that you won the French Open, what does it create in your mind when you attack a final?  How do you attack finals in an event like this?  Is it different?
SIMONA HALEP: It is different.  It is easier.  The emotions are better.  I can control them easier.
Of course, my nerves are in my stomach before every match.  Now I treat it with, like, I enjoy more.  I'm not putting pressure on myself that I have to win the match.  I just go on court and I try to focus on my game.
In the last matches, I did this thing, and it was much better.  I feel tired physically, but mentally I'm okay.  I feel, like, fresh.
Doesn't look like I had so many matches in a row in a short time.  I feel very good I think because I can control my emotions better now.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT