NCAA WOMEN'S FINAL FOUR
April 3, 2005
Lindsay Bowen
Kristin Haynie
Joanne P. McCallie
Kelli Roehrig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE:  That was a very exciting basketball game.  I guess that's saying the obvious.  Terrific basketball game.  Tennessee is a great team.  A very good team.  I think the second 20 minutes really reflected the greatness and the heart and soul of our team.  To come back from the deficit and to finish the game in the manner in which our team did, and I am certainly very proud, but not the least bit surprised given what our team has done all year long.  And how they have competed, gosh, in so many games.  And I am so proud of Kelli and her composure, Lindsay and her leadership and guts and Kristin and her determination.  That was one of the greatest steals I've ever seen in my life.  It was about six feet, she was six feet ahead of the ball if that makes any sense and Lindsay was just competing like she always does and Kelli just refuses to do anything but attack.  So I'm very proud of all of our team members, Liz Shimek and everybody else also, and now we're excited to enjoy this until approximately midnight tonight and then it's on to the next adventure. 

Q.  Kristin, in your four years at Michigan State, can you recall a bigger or more important rally considering the circumstances tonight? 

KRISTIN HAYNIE:  I mean definitely not.  This was a great game for us.  We hung in there, we stuck together.  We kept our composure down the stretch when it really counted and our team gave all our heart and effort down the stretch when it mattered. 

Q.  Kelli, you missed a pretty much point blank shot with a couple minutes to go that could have put you all up.  I know you know what I'm talking about.  How big was it for you to, like you say, keep your composure and how much did you want to hit that lay-up there with like 35 seconds to go. 

KELLI ROEHRIG:  Oh, yeah, that lay-up.  Yeah, it was a pretty big lay-up, but all I got to say is we won.  And I got Kristin out here, I owe the world to her.  Because she -- that steal was unbelievable.  But I was too open maybe, I don't know.  But, no, it's over.  We won.  That's all that matters. 

Q.  Kelli, I think there was a time you guys, it was like the 14 -- 16th time Tennessee had gotten their biggest lead, there was a time-out and Coach looks like she really blasted you guys.  She got in your face and challenged you.  Kind of give us an idea what that time-out was like and do you remember what I'm talking about; was she really getting into you? 

KELLI ROEHRIG:  We -- there was a couple.  Whatever time-out it was, we deserved it.  Because we were not playing Michigan State basketball at that point in time.  A time-out is a time to refocus, regroup, and that's basically what we had to do at every time-out, regardless if she yelled or not.  I mean, that pushes us forward, so. 

Q.  Kristin, will you talk about just your composure, y'all did make -- I think you tied for the biggest comeback in a Final Four game especially since Tennessee has been here and y'all haven't?

KRISTIN HAYNIE:  Definitely.  Our whole team stuck together.  Everyone was hitting big shots, getting the rebounds, everyone contributed in their own way and that's what teams do and that's what got us the win is our hustle towards the end of the game. 

Q.  Kristin, again, you looked like you struggled in the first half; you got in foul trouble.  How tough was it to keep your composure, especially when you come out in the second half and Tennessee is just pouring it on you. 

KRISTIN HAYNIE:  For any player it's all mental, you can either go down in the drain or you can come back, get back out of the drain.  You know what was going on with you.  You know, I mean anyone can go in a funk and you just got to -- it's Final Four game, it's do or die so you got to let that go and take it from there and then just keep your composure and keep attacking. 


Q.  Coach, it appeared with about four minutes left in the first half you decided to take Kristin out then and Tennessee made their move and took control of the game, did you begin to think to yourself, "Did I do this too soon" or, "Would I even put her back in, in the first half?"

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE:  Without question I would not put her back in, I was very, very confident in Lindsay and the guards.  And some mistakes were made.  However, I wouldn't do it different simply because the game is too long.  I knew that we were going to have a heck of a second half just the way everything's been going in second halves, the physicality of it, the way calls are made, everything about the second half is when it blows up and so I just felt we needed Kristin then. 

Q.  What does it say about the state of women's basketball that in Tuesday's final you're going to have two programs that are not used to being in this particular position? 

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE:  Well, first of all it's an all green national championship.  We're very excited about that.  But I think it just speaks to the fact that there's growth and exciting things happening in women's basketball.  Baylor is a terrific team; so is LSU, so is Tennessee.  But it's just very exciting I think for people to learn more about other teams and how people are trying to -- teams are just growing and the parity is growing.  It's exciting. 

Q.  You got two teams that overcame huge deficits now to get to the championship game and pretty much left it all only the floor, do you got anything left for the championship?

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE:  Oh, yes, I think we'll find a few things.  It's just too exciting.  It's the last game of the year.  There's nothing we can do to change that.  So I just feel both teams will be very ready and it will be quite a game. 

Q.  Could you talk about the Victoria Lucas-Perry, her flurry there, she got seven points?

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE:  Tremendous.  What a lift.  Her shooting, her three-point shooting, just her confidence, the way she was attacking the basket to get to the free throw line.  That was an absolutely huge lift because Lindsay had kind of gotten us going and other people need to pick up at different times.  And Victoria was right there when her team needed her most.  It was incredible to watch. 

Q.  Can you talk about what it means to get a win like this against a program like Tennessee and a coach like Pat Summitt?

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE:  Terrific program, it's an outstanding victory, I mean it just is because it puts us in a position to play for a national championship.  And we have played a lot of great programs in year.  There's been a lot of neat things going on.  So it's just really an opportunity for us now to play for a national championship and certainly Tennessee is a great program. 

Q.  What happened on the technical foul and what did Pat Summitt say to you at the end of the game?

COACH JOANNE P. McCALLIE:  Well, the technical foul was from the bench.  I did not get it, maybe I should have gotten it.  It seemed to have worked out quite nicely but it was from the bench and so that was -- I don't really care about that technical.  The way things were going, who cares?  You just got to play on.  And then what did Pat say to me?  Just good game.  It was just, that's what -- just good game. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT