NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v BRUINS
May 24, 2011
Eric Brewer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. ... played in Game 5 and carried over to Game 6, that you'll get the bounces here and should prevail?  
 ERIC BREWER: We did a lot of good things. I think we got some shots, got some traffic. Obviously it wasn't enough, but it would be easy for us to try and find things that aren't working or whatever and really dwell on those. But there's a lot of things that were working well, and we felt we got some real prime chances. We just didn't score.  
 So we're not going to stray too far from that. But there's a few little things that we could be a little better at.  
  
  Q. Given that Dwayne was so terrific in that Pittsburgh series when you guys were facing elimination, would you expect Dwayne Roloson to get the start tomorrow in Game 6?  
 ERIC BREWER: You'll have to ask the coach that. I got plenty else to think about other than that. We support both of our guys. They've both been great. And, you know, these decisions are made by the people in the office.   
 So we'll let them do that. But we're comfortable with either guy. And we'll be fine.  
  
  Q. That added sense of desperation, motivation, whatever you want to call it when your backs are against the wall. Is it real? Or is it possible to be more motivated than you have been throughout the series?  
 ERIC BREWER: It's real, because it's over if it doesn't happen. You know, when you're this close to moving on or getting an opportunity, you're always looking to be part of it. And we're just trying to do the right things out there and earn the wins that are out there.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the power play a little bit, what can you guys do better there?  
 ERIC BREWER: We need to shoot the puck more. I think if we can carry some more five-on-five in our power play, I think that will be helpful. We haven't shot the puck enough.   
 They've done a good job of making us move the puck around quickly and at times we've been guilty of doing it too much. So from that we've just got to simplify it a little bit.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT