NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2014
Terrence Ross
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Did you prepare a lot last year?
TERRENCE ROSS:   I prepared a lot last year; I prepared a lot this year.   But this year you have to kind of outdo what you did last year. 
So just more fire, more fun and games.   And you have to have something that nobody's ever seen before. 

Q.   Do you look on yourself as the defending champion?
TERRENCE ROSS:   I only do that because that's what everybody calls me and they always ask me questions about being defending champion.   I mean, I have to.   I just feel like I have to‑‑ I win the championship (indiscernible).

Q.   You won it last year, but now they got the All‑Star guys in here at the end. 
TERRENCE ROSS:   That's even more important for me, to go out and win the game.   Because it's like a new contest. 

Q.   Would you want to see someone like LeBron compete?
TERRENCE ROSS:   LeBron would make the dunk contest so much more exciting.   You would have people hanging from the ceiling just to try to get in and watch it.   So it would be‑‑ the atmosphere would probably be unreal.   And that's something I would probably like to experience. 
If he ever does it, I would try to find a way to get in it.   I don't know, hopefully one day he does it. 

Q.   Some guys have trouble dunking and some fans go, What's the difference between a game and a none game dunk?   What is the difference?
TERRENCE ROSS:   I would probably consider myself an in‑game dunker.   And when you're in the game, it's like you're already loose.   You're going a hundred miles an hour. 
With the dunk contest I got to wait for my turn to go out there and dunk and I might not be loose all the time. 
It's just a different type of feeling to it.   And then you try to go out there and do trick dunks like rather than going in the game and just naturally doing it.   So it's a lot different. 

Q.   Who do you think is going to be your competition for this slam dunk contest?
TERRENCE ROSS:   Ben McLemore, Damian Lillard, and Harrison Barnes, all three of them. 

Q.   Now, Terrence, everybody has taken his shirt off when they dunk.   Are you going to take your shirt off when you dunk?
TERRENCE ROSS:   No.   No.   Not this time.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT