NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 16, 2013
Terrence Ross
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you feel winning the championship?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   I feel blessed, but it's still overwhelming.   I'm just trying to soak it all in.   
   
 Q.   You've got the Vince jersey on, you used DeMar DeRozan, then you used a kid.   Take us through the process of picking those dunks?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   I think it's paying homage to the guys who did this before me.   DeMar has been here before, tried to take his advice and honor him.   It's a blessing to be here.  
   
 Q.   The use of the young child to jump over, where did that come from?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   My agent set that up for me.   He found a young ballboy I could use.   I thought it would be perfect.  
   
 Q.   Was there anything that you wanted to do that the NBA wouldn't clear?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   No, I did everything I wanted to do.  
   
 Q.   Did you ever think growing up that you would win the Slam Dunk Contest?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   Honestly, no.   It was my favorite event to watch every year, since I was a small child.   But actually winning it, I never thought I'd do it.  
   
 Q.   How has this experience been so far for you?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   It's been unbelievable.   I've had fun.   This is my first time.   I'm just enjoying everything.  
   
 Q.   How exhausting is it?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   It is tough, especially my first time.   It took me three or four times to do it.   I was getting tired, but I've done it before.   Eventually I got it.   But if you miss, it definitely gets tiring.  
   
 Q.   A lot of nerves early?   Do you think all the guys have that sort of thing?   And how did you fight through that?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   I don't think James or Gerald had it.   They've been in the Dunk Contest.   This is honestly like really my first big dunk contest, so I was nervous.   I was nervous.   And not making a dunk didn't make it easy.   I had to get myself together.   I put it up.  
   
 Q.   Did the kid know what you were going to do before you did it or was that a surprise to him, too?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   I told him the day before that I was going to jump over him, but I never told him I was going to go through the legs.   He was kind of nervous.   When I first grabbed him he said, "You're not going to hit me, right?"   I said, "No, I'm not going to hit you."   So I had to calm his nerves.  
   
 Q.   Was he a local ballboy?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   Actually his dad is the owner of Twitter (laughter.)  
  
 Q.   How did you happen to find him, then?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   My agent.   He set that up.   
   
 Q.   Last year at this time you were at the University of Washington.   You made the decision to come out.   Does this give you more validation that you made the right decision by doing that?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   I'm sure there's a lot of guys in college right now that are extremely athletic.   I don't know if this is validation, but it definitely feels good.  
   
 Q.   DeMar DeRozan tried to win it several times for Toronto.   Now you won it.   Did you have an opportunity to talk to him?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   DeMar has been on me to work on your things, practice.   As well as Rudy Gay.   They both helped me out.  
   
 Q.   Are you planning to come back next year, win it bac to back?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   I'm not sure.   I'm not sure.   This took a lot out of me.   So I don't know.   
   
 Q.   What made you pick that specific Vince Carter dunk out of all the ones that you've done?  
TERRENCE ROSS:   When he first did it it was probably his best dunk.   So I thought I'd probably do something similar to it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT