NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2012
Terrence Ross
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Terrance, if you could start off with some opening comments about being drafted. 
TERRENCE ROSS:   It's just a real moment.   I still don't feel like any of this is happening.   I feel blessed to be here, and I think it just shows all of the hard work I put in.   So I'm just happy to be where I'm at. 

Q.   Talk about what you went through with your maturity and leadership in the two years under Coach Lorenzo Romar. 
TERRENCE ROSS:   I think my freshman year, coming to a group that's already playing together for two or three years, and being only freshmen, I think it really helped my game.   It made me go through life faster, and they told me a bunch of things and I soaked it up like a sponge. 
Going into my sophomore year, all of the hard work I put in and how hard I played, and getting all of the information from the seniors, that really helped me in the long run.

Q.   A couple of months ago we were talking and you said you had no idea where you would get drafted; did you think you would go this high, No.8?
TERRENCE ROSS:   I didn't think I would go this high, but I'm happy I am.   I know I can make an impact at the next level, and I'm just happy to be where I'm at. 

Q.   Starting small forward for the Toronto Raptors? 
TERRENCE ROSS:   Probably shooting guard. 

Q.   Can you talk about your workout in Toronto and did you think this was a possibility?   Also DeMar DeRozan is there, how do you think that dynamic will work? 
TERRENCE ROSS:   The workout in Toronto went really well for me.   I did a lot of things really well, got to the basket, shot well, defended really well. 
Playing with DeMar, he's going to help me a lot.   He's been in the league a couple of years and all of his knowledge, I'll just soak it up and I think he'll make me a better ballplayer.   He's the best they have and it will be really be good for me. 

Q.   You're not going to be the only rookie for the Raptors next year, they will be getting Jonas Valanciunas, the center.   I don't know how much you know about him but what's that going to be like getting to go through this experience with another rookie, a high‑end pick and what's it going to be like playing with a big guy like that?
TERRENCE ROSS:   It's going to be fun.   I know he's going to bring a lot to the team and I'm just happy there's going to be another guy coming with me.   It will be scary for me to go somewhere by myself but having another rookie will help me and help him at the same time.   We are going to learn a lot from each other and I think we are going to have a good time.

Q.   When you started this process, you were probably in the second half of the first round, now you're pick No.8.   When did you start to realize that, hey, I could kind up going to the lottery and maybe even the Top‑10? 
TERRENCE ROSS:   It's hard to say.   I didn't think I would be getting an invite to the lottery as late as I did, and when I did, I just knew that I'm going to be here and I just have to wait and see what happens.   Anything could be a possibility.   This Draft is tricky and works in a lot of different ways, and I'm just honestly blessed to be here. 

Q.   For a lot of players, this is the first job they have ever had.   I was wondering when you were younger, have you ever had another job, and if you did, how much it paid and what it was. 
TERRENCE ROSS:   Honestly, this is my first job.   First job. 

Q.   Since you went to the University of Washington, did you have a chance to go to Vancouver and familiar with Canadian customs? 
TERRENCE ROSS:   I think when I was about maybe six, seventh grade, I went up to Vancouver.   It was really nice.   I remember it being really nice and I went to Toronto, even nicer city.   I went there and excited to be there. 

Q.   Colder than Vancouver. 
TERRENCE ROSS:   A lot colder.   A lot colder. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT