MLB WORLD SERIES: GIANTS v ANGELS
October 20, 2002
Troy Glaus
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  You look up and down your line-up, most of your guys are Angel guys that were developed within the organization.  Does that make a difference? 

TROY GLAUS:  Well, I think you get accustomed to playing with people.  You know how everybody reacts to certain situations.  You know you can kind of predict what they're going to do.  At the same time, you understand that everybody knows what they're supposed to do, they understand their role.  I think it breeds more of a team concept. 

Q.  Every team has put a shift on Bonds.  Last night, we saw maybe the most dramatic one all year.  Can you talk about the thinking that's there?  Is it weird to move that close to second base? 

TROY GLAUS:  We've done that all year.  We've done that against certain guys, Jason Giambi, Jim Thome,  Carlos Delgado, there's a handful of guys we do put a shift on like that.  It's no more or less drastic or dramatic than any shift we put on all year.  As far as being uncomfortable, every one of us on the infield had played shortstop at some point.  If the ball's hit to you, you field the ball and everybody feels pretty comfortable being there.

Q.  What has it been like playing with Garret Anderson the last couple years?  What is he like as a teammate?

TROY GLAUS:  Garret's great.  He's one of the nicest guys around.  He's an unbelievably talented player.  Finally, he's starting to get some of the respect he deserves.  He's been having years like he had this year for the last three, four years.  He's kind of the consistent rock throughout our team.  Different times of the year, different guys struggle.  Somehow he seems to stay consistent all year. 

Q.  Just wondering about your thoughts a day later about hitting two home runs in your first World Series game, how that feels a day later?

TROY GLAUS:  Doesn't feel any different.  We came up on the losing end yesterday.  This team, we're all about winning.  That's all that matters.  The personal accomplishments and accolades are completely separate.  We don't worry about that.  We are out there to win ball games and last night, unfortunately, we didn't get it done.  Today we'll do our best to try and get it done today. 

Q.  Dusty and J.T. Snow made an issue of the consistency of the track around the field after J.T. slipped last night.  Have you ever experienced a problem coming over toward the dugout to catch a popup with that? 

TROY GLAUS:  The track is a little slick if you wear plastic spikes, which I do as well.  But it's happened a couple times, Brad Fullmer slipped over there, Ersty slipped over there once, then J.T. last night.  If you got metal spikes on, it's not a big deal.  For the guys who wear plastics, you just have to kind of be careful when you go over there. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT