U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S OPEN
May 19, 2019
Judith Kyrinis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell us about your play today.  Happy with it or not?  
JUDITH KYRINIS: Yeah, well, kind of like the play has been all week.  Some really good shots and then some rusty shots out there.  I thought my putting was a lot better today.  I lipped out a couple times.  Only one three-putt, so that's an improvement over the week, considering I had like five the first day.  Every day I've been learning the greens a little better.  But there's some difficult shots.  You saw there on 18, it's hard to get those ones clean, and I certainly did not get that one clean.  So that's disappointing to finish that way.   
 Q.  How much have you been playing?  
JUDITH KYRINIS: Well, not a ton, right, so we've had a very bad spring.  It's cold, it's wet, so you're in layers.  But you do what you do.  I know I had to do that to come here and play.  You get out there and you just do it, yeah.   
 Q.  So there's a possibility that you could win the low amateur medal.  Tell us what that would mean to you.  
JUDITH KYRINIS: Well, you know, coming in, we kind of set some goals.  First one was to make the cut because we missed it last year and learned a lot from that experience.  It was kind of eye-opening for me playing with the pros.  It was my first kind of pro tournament last year, so I learned a lot, took a lot away from that missing cut.  And then so once we made the cut, it was, yeah, let's go for low am.  But again, you're just playing the golf course because you can't control what everybody else is doing out there.  So control yourself and do your best.   
 Q.  What's your schedule like for now through like --  
JUDITH KYRINIS: So I've got some Ontario events coming up.  In July it gets pretty busy.  We start having Ontario Am, and then I go to some senior -- Ontario Senior.  August is real busy because we kind of get the Canadian Senior Am and it kind of runs right into the U.S., so we're kind of running to get to the U.S. in the middle of the week, so that's going to be a bit of a struggle, but it's good.  We'll do it.  We'll get it done.  And then after that I think I'll probably go to the British and Irish Senior in September.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT