U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 12, 2018
Judith Kyrinis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Judith, first time the USGA has had a Celebration of Champions, and you're fortunate to be a part of it.  Just tell us what it was like to be part of it, then a little bit about what you thought about Shinnecock.
JUDITH KYRINIS: Well, it was definitely a thrill of a lifetime to be able to come here, be around the pros, to be able to practice where they were, to meet all the other champions.  And then to walk this golf course and play those four holes was just -- again, it's literally a dream come true and a lifetime experience.
Q. In terms of getting out here and whatnot, can you describe what the feeling was like?  Because it does seem to be maybe a little bit of a surreal thing to come in and drop into a U.S. Open and then to experience being inside the ropes like that.
JUDITH KYRINIS: Well, it's very surreal.  It's like I keep pinching myself that I'm actually a USGA champion.  So I just kept pinching myself that I'm actually inside the ropes and being a part of all this.
This is a U.S. Open.  This is a huge Major for these guys, and for us to be able to come in and be a part of it is truly special for myself for sure.
Q. How much time did you actually get to see the golf course a little bit or practice a little bit before you actually played?
JUDITH KYRINIS: So my brother and I were here yesterday.  So we walked the holes we were going to play.  So I kind of had an idea what I wanted to do.  I wasn't sure what holes would be best for me to tee off on.  Brad Faxon helped us out with that one, and it worked out pretty well.
And then practicing today was just kind of neat.  I was just hoping I didn't do anything real bad out there.
Q. When -- did you say that you -- did you get a chance to speak with Jack Nicklaus at all?  I know you mentioned that it was neat to see him out there.  Did you have any kind of interaction with him?
JUDITH KYRINIS: Yeah, I got my picture taken with him.  That was pretty cool.  My brother did too.  For Ben, my brother, that's like meeting Tiger Woods for anybody else in the younger generation.  So he's absolutely, he's died and gone to heaven now.
So, yeah, to be beside Jack, winner of all his USGA Championships, it's special.  Not everybody gets to do this stuff.
Q. Will you stay around for them any longer through the week?
JUDITH KYRINIS: Yes, I'm staying until Thursday.  I leave Thursday evening, as work calls on Friday.
Q. How about the golf course itself?
JUDITH KYRINIS: Oh, my goodness.  You're going to get a real good champion out of this golf course.  10 is just wow.  I mean, that chip that I had to go up, I was really scared on that one.  But, no, it's fabulous.  I mean, the wind was blowing real hard today, so it made it really challenging.
But what a fantastic venue.  Just looks spectacular out there.
Q. How excited are you for the Senior Women's Open?
JUDITH KYRINIS: Oh, I went last weekend.  So I got my little Chicago Club shirt on.  I went last weekend.  I played Chicago Club and Shoreacres with a great member.  And so I'm very thankful I got to go do that.
You know, this I was hoping would really prepare me for that environment.  I've never played in a pro event my whole life.  So I wasn't really sure what to expect.  This has been a really good experience to try and manage how I'm going to feel playing in that event.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT