U.S. SENIOR WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2014
Judith Kyrinis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I know it's always tough to lose a close one like that, but does it help?   This was a tremendous match.   You both really played well.   Just someone had to win.   
JUDITH KYRINIS:   Yeah, it was pretty tough out there.   The greens were pretty slick.   The pins were like, I don't know, every Sunday position I think they had out there.   Felt like I was playing prevent defense out there all the time every time I was putting.  
Any time I did have a good opportunity to go at it, I was still in the prevent mode and didn't give it a good roll.  
You know, she played steady.   Just unfortunate when you don't play your best.  
   
 Q.   Felt like a match, watching it, where the first person to make a mistake was probably going to lose.   Do you think the third shot on 16 was key?  
JUDITH KYRINIS:   That was for sure.   There are lots of different times during the match to think where I could have taken advantage that I didn't.   To move all over that little pitch shot was not very good.  
So, yeah, I mean, obviously that's a turning point right there.   Then not take advantage of 17.   
   
 Q.   When you get to this point in a match play event, how much is mental as well as physical?  
JUDITH KYRINIS:   Yeah, every match that I play, it's all mental.   It's between your own head, your own ears when you're out there.   It's always a mental game trying to stay in the process.  
I kept telling myself to believe.  
   
 Q.   Even more so today though?   You get to this point and it's been such a grind for the last four or five days.   
JUDITH KYRINIS:   Yeah, always tough sleeping at night the night before a big match on this stage.   But, you know, I was ready.   I was ready to come out and hit some good shots.   
I think that the ball released a little bit more today and we didn't probably pull some of the best clubs into the green.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your journey this week.   Extra holes in the round of 64.   Out of the bunker you flew the green there.   Heck of a scramble just to stay alive in the first round.   
JUDITH KYRINIS:   Yes, yes, yes.   Sometimes you think it's your week when you do stuff like that.   You just kind of squeak by the first match in the 64.   
Then I just started to play some really nice, sold golf.   Made great shots, great shots.   Drove the ball really well this week, so no complaints there.  
Putted really well this week.   Too.  
   
 Q.   I know you didn't come out on top, but this is still a good year for Canada.   Three runner‑ups in USGA Championships.   
JUDITH KYRINIS:   Yeah, for sure.   
   
 Q.   Talk about the pride.   
JUDITH KYRINIS:   Yeah, well, I was just trying to break that mold of becoming a runner‑up for Canada.   
Gosh, I've had so many texts and twitters and well wishes from everybody.   It's really nice and certainly makes you feel good.   It's just unfortunate to come out the losing end.  
   
 Q.   What would people be surprised about if they had never seen one of these amateur championships before this week about the caliber of play?   
JUDITH KYRINIS:   I think we're pretty good out here still.   We may be 50.   We don't hit it as long as the 25 and under year olds, but I still think we can play.  
We can certainly go under par and around par all day.   
   
 Q.   I know your brother made the trip down here.   
JUDITH KYRINIS:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   What did that mean to have him here?   
JUDITH KYRINIS:   Sorry.   I mean, it was great to have him come down.   He's always been such a big supporter of myself.   
Three friends came down from Toronto, so that was pretty cool, too.   Just disappointed I couldn't come out on top.  
   
 Q.   What is your brother's name?  
JUDITH KYRINIS:   Dan.   Came down from Wisconsin.   Yeah, pretty cool.  
And I had my mom and a friend hers, Mary.   They were the Green Team as my caddie called them.   My caddie was great for me.   It was just like a match made in heaven for us.  
He's been through a lot himself, so we really hit it off.   Every day was a miracle for him, so it was great.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT