NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: GOLDEN KNIGHTS vs JETS
May 15, 2018
Mark Scheifele
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you anticipate with the crowd?  What are your thoughts when you come here, what are you expecting?  
MARK SCHEIFELE: Yeah, we know they're a good crowd.  We know they're loud, proud of their team.  We know it's going to be a tough building to play in.   
But we expect a good test.  It's going to be a challenge.  We just got to focus on our game.   
 Q.  Can it work in your favor to be in a building that is as raucous as the Vegas building is?  
MARK SCHEIFELE: I think the biggest thing for us is not to focus on things we can't control.  You can't control the crowd.  You can't control the other team.  All you can do is control what you're doing on the ice, what your team's doing.  No, that's going to be our focus tomorrow.   
 Q.  You came so close to opening the score in the first minute last night.  When something like that happens, do you spend much time thinking about what could have been?  
MARK SCHEIFELE: No.  That's the way hockey is.  It's a game of inches.  That's just the way the game goes.   
 Q.  What do you think changed for your team?  Seemed like you came out of the gate flying like you had in Game 1, then there was a point in that first period where it seemed like it shifted for a while.  
MARK SCHEIFELE: Yeah, you know, we went through a few minutes where we weren't playing our game.  We let them dictate the game.  But that's what good teams are going to do.  They're going to capitalize when you give them a chance.   
Vegas is a great team.  They showed it yesterday.  We gave them their chances and they capitalized on them.  That's something we definitely have to change.   
 Q.  Do you think momentum exists in the post-season?  
MARK SCHEIFELE: You go through so much adversity in a game.  They get a chance, we get a chance.  If the fans are loud, whatever it is, there's ups and downs of a game.  It's just the teams that control it the best are the ones that are going to come out on top.   
 Q.  This series might feature two of the better lines in the NHL.  What are the challenges playing against a line like that?  
MARK SCHEIFELE: They're really good.  They have a lot of skill.  They're hard on the pucks.  They do everything.  They play a solid 200-foot game.  You got to be on your toes the entire time because they can make you pay at any given moment.   
For our team, we just have to try to win that battle.   
 Q.  Last two road games in Nashville, what stands out for you with how successful your club was on the road?  
MARK SCHEIFELE: We just focused on our game.  That was the biggest thing.  We focused on what we could control.  We focused on sticking to our strategy, our game plan.  We didn't worry about the crowd.  We didn't worry about the other team.  We were just worried about ourselves.   
 Q.  What did you learn about their D corps?  
MARK SCHEIFELE: They're good.  You don't make it this far on luck.  They're a great team.  They have solid players up and down their lineup.  Obviously an unbelievable goaltender in net.  You have to be at yours best to beat them.  That D corps is solid.  They move the puck well.  They move their feet well.  You got to grind them for a full 60 minutes to get the best of them.   
 Q.  There's been talks about teams coming to Vegas, partying before a game.  Early bedtime tonight?  
MARK SCHEIFELE: Obviously.   
 Q.  Not going to any shows?  
MARK SCHEIFELE: No.   
 Q.  Just focusing 100% on hockey?  
MARK SCHEIFELE: Yeah.  It's playoffs.  You got to put your nose to the grindstone.  It's all about resting and recovering.  That's our focus each and every day here.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT