SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 22, 2009
Dan Frosman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're tied for 11th place right now and you're only four shots back from the lead. How will you stay focused during the round knowing that you're in the hunt for the win?  
 DAN FORSMAN: Well, all you can do is go back to the council that you received from your teacher, your professional, whose helped you throughout, he always says stay focused, stay in the present, take one shot at a time, and do what I can do.   
 I can't worry about somebody else's score out there, how they're doing. All I can do is focus on my game and play one shot at a time. And if I do that, not getting too high when the good birdies come and not too low when the bogeys inevitably come, keep a good even keel, I think I got a good chance to play well and be in the hunt.  
  
  Q. Is there a specific shot you practiced yesterday or this morning that you think helped you today?  
 DAN FORSMAN: No, not really. I knew coming in it was going to be an examination of my entire game. And it has been. You got to drive it in the fairway, the greens are firm, you got to control your iron shots, and you got to be below the hole to have a chance to make a putt.   
 So I was able to do most of that. I had a little seesaw battle going on the front nine there early on the front nine which kind of derailed me a little bit, but I got back on the rails and I feel pretty good.  
  
  Q. You had a great first nine, you were 2-under.   
 DAN FORSMAN: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Did you feel like you had a certain rhythm going like once you started?  
 DAN FORSMAN: I just felt good. I was hitting the ball well, I was putting well, everything just felt air tight. And then there was a leak on 10. I hit a ball that spun off the green. I mean it's a foot from being three feet from the hole and it spun off and down the hill. I pitched it up like this and had to make a 4-footer for bogey.   
 So it was the kind of thing that can happen on a course like this and they happen instantly. Even though you give it all you got, it's just the nature of Major Championship golf.   
  
  Q. Was there a maybe a certain shot or certain putt that you had that kind of set the tone or kind of got you your momentum going?  
 DAN FORSMAN: Yeah, the putt I made at 11. That got me under par for the day and that got me thinking, okay, I'm under, let's go. Instead of being a bogey or something where you're over par.   
 So that kind of took a little of the pressure off, a little of the handcuffs off, and I went out and played the rest of the round and for the most part I held up pretty well.  
  
  Q. What will you do tonight to prepare for tomorrow? Do you have any rituals or maybe something that --  
 DAN FORSMAN: Not really. At this point in my career, 50 years of age, I have done this enough that I know I got to go back, relax, decompress, and just kind of unwind and then get some rest and get some good dinner and hopefully have some sweet dreams about a lot of putts dropping tomorrow and go out and do it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT