RCA CHAMPIONSHIPS
August 14, 1995
David Wheaton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How hard were the conditions out there?
 
DAVID WHEATON:  They weren't really hard at all.  I mean, you play at 7:30, it is not too bad. Playing during the day is, I mean, 50 times tougher, so, the conditions weren't a problem at all, really. 
 

Q.  He is coming off a strong week last week and.  Talk a little bit about his game tonight?
 
DAVID WHEATON:  Yeah, he played pretty consistently.  I made just a ton of unforced errors.  I was hitting the ball pretty hard.  It's a little faster this week than it was last week.  So I think I made a few too many unforced errors. 
 

Q.  Is that the balls or the courts or what?
 
DAVID WHEATON:  I think the balls are faster; and the balls and courts are faster, but, you know, I just didn't, as I said, just too many unforced errors. That is the story of it. 
 

Q.  At 5-5 in the tiebreaker, you seemed to question that call?
 
DAVID WHEATON:  I actually couldn't see it. He was in the way.  From when I hit it is -- I thought  it was going in.  I didn't really question hard because I didn't see it land. 
 

Q.  Did he hit three really good shots at the end, passing shots, that you --
 
DAVID WHEATON:  Yeah, I think he did.  He hit some good shots at the end.  He raised his game a little bit, and that was the difference in that game. 
 

Q.  Do the faster balls and court favor anybody, like Pete or anybody?
 
DAVID WHEATON:  Yeah, I think they favor somebody with a serve and volley game this week.  I think even though the weather is pretty humid, balls are still moving pretty fast.  I think you will see Rusedski hitting some big serves in the next match because the ball is moving pretty fast.  I think he might break the record in that match because it is playing pretty fast out there.  I was hitting a serve not usually harder, but it seemed like miles per hour was higher than it usually is for the same amount of effort that goes into the serve, so I think you will see some hard serves this weeks.  The balls are fast, the court is fast.  I think Rusedski could hit 137, 138. 
 
DAVID WHEATON:  Great, thanks.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT