NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 9, 1995
David Wheaton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What did you do differently today than you did in Australia?

DAVID WHEATON: Not a whole not. There wasn't that much difference
between the match. The one thing I may have done differently today,
I may have stayed back a fewer more times on my second serve and
I may have tried to attack his serve a little more, but, you know,
there wasn't a whole lot of difference, I mean, the score was
just, you know, 7-6 in the third or 10-8 in the fifth, so it is
pretty tight. Three out of five set match is a lot tougher. I
think he was a little stronger physically at the end of the last
time we played because he is a strong boy. He is built big and
strong, so he might have been a little stronger down the stretch
the last time, but today, I felt really strong at the end and
I was able just to hit a couple of big shots in the tiebreaker;
especially that one point where I kind of guessed right; hit a
good angle volley; a couple of different shots that kind of turned
the tiebreaker.

Q. And your serve really came on in the breaker? 

DAVID WHEATON: I think I served okay in the breaker. I think I
served 66 percent overall in the match. That is a good percentage.
I volleyed pretty well. I don't have a lot of complaints. I thought
I played really well. I don't want to downplay it at all. But
I thought I played real well. Could have cut down on a few unforced
errors, but again, you can do that every match. 

Q. How was the court surface different here?

DAVID WHEATON: Slower here. Pretty slow. This is perennially,
pretty slow, and especially a few years ago I remember slower
than clay. Seems like it is still medium slow surface, so, you
know, he is better on slow surfaces, of course, and so that that
is why I had to stay back a couple of more times on my second
serve.

Q. So you are looking at the stats. (Wheaton holding stat documents
in hand.) What do you look for, serve percentage?

DAVID WHEATON: I look for my aces; look at all the stats, just
to see -- I know what kind of numbers I have to put up if I am
going to play well. I got to serve a good high percentage. I have
to, you know, more double aces than doublefaults, You know. Of
course, it is important how many points I win on my second serve,
percentage of that, and so I look at pretty much all of them,
and these are pretty general. They are not really too in-depth.
It would be nice if they were a little more in-depth. They give
me a good idea of something I maybe need to work on for tomorrow
or just little tips.

Q. Is there anything on that that you will work on for tomorrow?

DAVID WHEATON: Yeah, I didn't -- I only won 45% of my second return
points. He won 56% for his second return points. That is the number
you want to have, above 50%, where he has it; that is a good number.
That is something I probably have to improve for tomorrow. But
then again, that needs to be improved everyday, or I mean, all
of them are important. You want to be winning more than 50% of
my second serve points too, so you just look at the percentages
a little bit; try to figure out where you can improve.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT