THE LIPTON CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 14, 1994
David Wheaton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Are those socks?  What are those?

 DAVID WHEATON:  These are just the sock liners inside the shoe.


 Q.  How do you explain going from losing a set 6-0, to winning;
actually somewhat in control, maybe, of the second set against
Pete Sampras?

 DAVID WHEATON:  Yeah, I think you know, it's a mental thing;
it was a mental turnaround.  In the beginning the ball seemed
like it was moving fast and he was dominating play.  It was 6-0,
21 minutes or something, but I just really -- I just really didn't
let it affect me in the second set. I just said that that is over,
this set has to begin.  I just kind of relied on knowing that
you just don't give up; that is just not in my nature.  You just
keep on going if you give me 0 and 0, that would have been okay;
he beat me 0 and 0, but it wasn't going to be in my nature to
role over and go through the motions the rest of the match.

 Q.  Can you tell us a little bit about the injury?

 DAVID WHEATON:  I had an -- I had some inflammation in my hips,
hip joints - that gives me stiffness in the hips.  I have actually
had it awhile.  Had it at least a couple of years.  I never really,
for some reason, got it checked out.  I thought it was just kind
of inexplicably stiff there, but, in actuality, it is just a bit
stiff; a little bit of a tight hip, kind of joint -- it is just
from playing so much tennis, you know, inflammation develops just
the way I am made, it can develop in there.  I need to keep the
area flexible and strong and take some anti-inflammatories when
I started to play a lot.  But I think most of all, it was really
good for me to be home for a long time.  I haven't played since
last fall.  I think it was a blessing for me to be home with my
family and kind of get a new look at my career a little bit and
come out with a little better perspective than I think I had for
a couple of years there.

 Q.  What were you doing?

 DAVID WHEATON:  I practiced some and I worked out some with my
conditioning coach.  But I think I had just spent a lot of time
trying to get the right vision set for my career again; kind of
like going into the second part of my career, I wanted to -- not
like I have all figured out but a chance to really figure out,
you know, why I am playing and why did I play before, and what
has changed in the last few years and how I want to approach the
latter half of my tennis career - not the latter half - not that
I am on my way out, but I'd love to play, God willing, 'till I
am 35, but I think I had to change-- most of it was not my game.
 As you can see, I have to improve in my game to keep up with
the Pete Sampras' of the world more than my attitude and some
changes in character were definitely in order.

 Q.  Was there actually any surgery or operation?

 DAVID WHEATON:  No.  I just-- I just got a whole battery of tests.
 I had and MRI-- first, X-rays. I went to Minneapolis, a hip specialist
and my regular orthopedic doctor, Dr. Fisher.  He conferred with
my brother, Mark, who is in physical medicine, a doc.  I had an
M.R.I. and had a lot of different tests.  At first no one figured
it out.

 Q.  It is not arthritis?

 DAVID WHEATON:  It is not like-- well, it is like if I wasn't
playing tennis, I would never know I had this.  I would never
develop stiffness, but it's the fact that I am a professional
athlete; spend a lot of time running around a tennis court, hard
surface; it is very jarring and I am tall which adds to the problem.
 It was a matter of just settling down -- having the whole problem
settle down and then being able to start, you know, kind of getting
the area more flexible by some really progressive stretching routines
and then being able to take some anti-inflammatories to keep the
swelling down.  It is not something that is going to -- I don't
know what is going to happen in the future.  It is not like an
injury where I tore my rotator cuff or tore some ligaments in
my knee. It is a problem that I have to be diligent in taking
care of.

 Q.  Were you being serious with us about sitting that way,
crossing your legs?

 DAVID WHEATON:  Yeah, I try little things now.  I try to sit
a little different way.

 Q.  He learned this being a couch potato?

 DAVID WHEATON:  Yeah, I just try to sit a little -- some different
ways to keep it flexible, because my hip is really-- last few
years, my hips are unbelievably stiff.  I can probably separate
my legs a lot of times.  It was a problem with my mobility.  That
is what really suffered when my hips got stiff.  It wasn't really
that the pain was so excruciating that I couldn't take it.  It
was the stiffness and I lost my mobility.  That really was frustrating
for me.  I feel like now that I can sense that my mobility has
improved a little bit; just by having more flexibility.

 Q.  Do you consider this a good come back for you?

 DAVID WHEATON:  I am quite pleased more so than winning matches,
stuff like that.  I am pleased with the-- I think, as I said,
the mental strides.  I think I have begun to take that-- like
I don't have it all figured out, but I feel like it is a start
and I am moving slowly in the right direction.  I had a lot of
people working with me; just my family has been very supportive
and "Team Wheaton," which is like my family and friends,
a real loyal group of guys and gals that really support me a lot
and that is really nice to have.  I know a lot of players-- it
is tough because they are out here kind of alone, but it is really
a blessing to have people that really support you; especially
when times are tough and you are out with an injury but it has
been nice.  Nice being home with 25 below zero.  I have rediscovered
hockey and cross country skiing.

 Q.  Thank you. 


  End of FastScripts....


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT