PURDUE UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 25, 2018
Vincent Edwards
Dakota Mathias
PJ Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Purdue - 84, Minnesota - 60
Q. Obviously to celebrate tonight is great I'm sure, but there's still some of your guys' legacy that's left to write.  How do you transfer from a celebration like what you had today to the rest of the season?
PJ THOMPSON: Yeah, definitely.  We want to enjoy today, tonight.  I think we deserve that.  But when we get back to practice on Tuesday, it's moving on to the Big Ten tournament.  We're playing for something that's important.  We're playing obviously to win the Big Ten tournament, but knowing if we win the Big Ten tournament, that more than likely we'll be a No. 1 seed and we want to be a No. 1 seed in the tournament.  That was a goal that we had.  We wanted to go to a Final Four and to do that it helps.
So our focus, I think we're going to enjoy tonight together.  Tonight was awesome.  I can't thank the fans enough for staying.  I did come to the senior game against Northwestern and it wasn't like that at all.  And just to see the culture turn around and how everything is now is awesome.  People give us a lot of love, but it's a lot of people that go into that.
Q. With the ankle injury, how motivated were you to get out there and actually play?
VINCENT EDWARDS: I mean when you've been through so much not only as a team, but guys like this sitting to my left and right, that was fun, because PJ was like, man, you ain't hurt, you ain't hurt, like trying to psyche me out.  He was just trying to push me.  And obviously that kind of helped break the mental anguish, because when you're hurting, you want to baby your injury or whatever it is or try to be gentle with it and these guys didn't let me.  They were making sure I was in there getting treatment, they were asking me how it was every day.  So that just shows how much they cared about me.  So how much I was going to return the favor besides playing for them and playing on Senior Day, not only for myself, because it's bigger than me, it's for all of us and it's for this community and for this program.  So I know everybody wants to see me out on the court on one of my last games and it was good to get out there.  The healing process went basically quick, so that was unbelievable.  And it's not where I want it to be but it's going to get there and I feel like I'll be fine when the time comes.
Q. For any of you, there have been the Big Dog, Baby Boilers, Three Amigos.  What have you guys, have you guys had any discussion about what you guys want to be known as?
VINCENT EDWARDS: I think we are going to let the other people give the nickname.  I don't think it's right for us to do it.
DAKOTA MATHIAS: Somebody else is going to have to come up with that.
PJ THOMPSON: I mean we can sit here and come up with a bunch, but I feel like that's up to the media, people who consider us one of the best classes, so you guys can think of a word for it.  We'll take whatever comes our way.
Q. Vince, just for you, you were the last in the starting lineup.  You came out there and had your head down for a little bit, seemed like you maybe took a moment there.  What was going through your mind?
VINCENT EDWARDS: Oh, man, all the emotions of, last time being called, going through this line, I just knew the crowd was going to be really up for it as well.  It's not only just being a senior, but like I said, they really cared and really wanted to see me play, so it made it even better.  So I can't thank them enough for making that feeling something I'll never forget for the rest of my life and also for them staying afterwards.  Can't thank them enough for that as well either.  So I had to take a moment to really soak it all in.  I don't think any of us have really soaked it all in yet that we're not coming back here after today as far as playing another game in Mackey.  So I guess it will hit when we all walk the stage here in May and really realize, once we have to go our separate ways, that it's over.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT