LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2007
Jean Bartholomew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Thanks for joining us today.  You had 5 birdies in your first nine holes, and you shot 68 out there.  Go ahead and talk about your round a little bit. 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Sure.  Let's see, considering I have only played in one event this year I was pretty pleased with my round. 
 I didn't have a very good warm up.  I don't like this range very much, so I didn't feel like I was hitting it very good, but you never know when you go out to play. 
 I just hooked my first couple of tee shots but managed to par 1, which is tough starting hole.  And 2, usually you have driver 7-iron on that par 5 and I had the driver punch out and then hit a good wedge and made birdie that way. 
 So I kind of got away with a couple of bad drives and then got in the rhythm and played my way into the round.  Trying to think where else... 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Go over the second hole again. 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Second hole I hooked it again and punched it out.  Tried to go for it under the trees, but the rough is definitely a lot longer than when I played Tuesday.  It's growing as you watch it. 
 So just got it up there, hit a wedge on to about 6 feet and made it.  Felt like I got away with murder actually.  But you never want to par that hole.  You always feel like I lose a shot. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  How about the birdie on 4? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  4 was just a nice 2-iron down there, and I hit a wedge to right above the pin, maybe 6 feet, and made it. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Wedge to 6 feet? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Uh-huh. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  5. 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Finally hit a good solid tee shot down the middle and I had 140 yards for the front on that Par 5.  I actually went for the pin which was tucked on the front left, which was kind of stupid, and hit it too far and went into the rough. 
 But at least I had some greens to work with on my chip and chipped it to 6 feet and made it.  Again I felt like I got away with murder. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  What club from 190 feet? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  140 yards to the front.  I hit an 8-iron and then pulled it a little and jacked it.  So, again, birdie. 
 And next hole I hit a 5-iron down the hill and a gap wedge to a foot and a half, so you love those on that green because that's a really pretty treacherous green. 
 I don't think I've ever seen the pin where they had it today.  They had it all the way at right side.  So pretty much every putt was a downhill putt. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  9? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  9, hit a 2-iron, good two iron and then hit a pitching wedge -- no, I was in between clubs and I gripped a 9-iron and I just killed it right over to the back of the green and made the downhiller for birdie. 
 But I knew the putt.  I knew exactly what was going to do.  But if I hadn't made it, it would have gone four feet by, probably. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Probably twenty feet. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  10th hole? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  10 hole i bogeyed.  I killed a drive.  I had 60 yards to the front of the green, and I skulled my sand wedge over the back almost into the Par 3, which is kind of a -- don't ask me what happened.  Mental lapse. 
 I totally skulled it, and my only option was to get it on the green and 2-putt for bogey.  Just turned an easy birdie chance into a bogey right there. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  11? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  11, I hit a grip 7-iron just past the pin maybe to ten feet, and made that. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  12? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  12, I hooked it out of bounds, which I've been struggling a little bit this week with my driver going left.  They moved that tee back a lot further, and you used to -- you used to be afraid of going through the fairway on the right.  Now you probably can't go through on the right. 
 But you're still so used to kind of drawing it down the left side.  But I hit it in that person's house somewhere.  Couldn't find it. 
 But I ended up making a great bogey.  I hit my second drive really well.  Laid up and hit a wedge to about ten feet and made it for bogey, so that felt kind of like a birdie almost, considering. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  13? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  13, this is the hardest hole on the course.  13, I hit a good drive.  I hit it far, thank God, down the right.  I wasn't going to hook that one into the right rough.  Hit a pitching wedge -- no, actually hit a 9-iron, because the rough was so thick I took and extra club.  I only had 127 yards or something, and hit it past the pin and it came back to about 12 feet right above the hole. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  And 17? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  17, I hit -- don't ask me why.  I've always hit driver on that hole because I'm comfortable.  For some reason I decided to hit 3-wood because I've been hooking my driver.  I hit it way right. 
 I thought it was going out of bounds and it hit the tree and kicked into this bunker there, but right up against the left side of the bunker.  So the ball was actually about four feet below my feet trying to hit it. 
 So I get it out into the real thick rough and hit it on the green in 2-putts, so I feel like I made a good bogey again.  I went from, Could have been out of bounds, to, Wow I got a good break, to, Wow, it's not really that good of a break because I thought I was going to whiff.  I've never had a ball that far below my feet before, so I was happy with bogey there. 
 ASHLEY CUSHMAN:  Questions. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I don't have full status this year.  It's the first year in --this is my 11th year.  This is the first year, and I played ten years pretty much straight through.  It was just had a bad season last year and didn't finish in the top 125. 
 Then went back to Q School and played bad there.  Now I have the Class A status which doesn't get you in many events anymore.  We used to get in more when we had more events.  People would take off, but this season you're not getting into anything. 
 I've tried to Monday qualify, but that's just a crap shoot.  You never know.  You know you have to have a good round on that Monday.  I was real happy that I got in. 

 Q.  Where did you play previously? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  My last tournament, the only tournament was Mexico, Morelia.  The second Mexico.  I made the cut and did okay, but I really haven't completed in a tournament since Q School or the last LPGA event last season, so it's a very strange feeling. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I've been leading this tournament so many times.  I said it owes me one.  It's kind of like my home event being from New York.  I never miss this event, and I have my birthday here this week.  I love this tournament and I am so glad I got to play. 

 Q.  What is it about this course? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  It's a fun golf course.  It's tight.  You can make a ton of birdies.  If you miss the rough you can make a lot bogeys, too. 
 It's fun to play a course where you can make a lot birdies.  It's true, you do use every club in your bag.  There are some real long Par 4s and there are some dinky little Par 4s where they're very tight and you have to just get it in the fairway.  I always love to golf course. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  No, it's on the weekend. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  No.  We're not talking about that.  You don't have to worry about that. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I'm just glad, you know, because you never know what to expect when you're not competing a lot, and I was just glad that I kept my compose and I hit some good shots. 
 I'm not hitting it great, but it was better -- it wasn't better than I expected, but you don't want to go out when you have the chance to play in an event and shoot a bad round on the first day and start off an a bad foot. 
 So I didn't get upset at my bogeys.  You just kind of expect it out here sometimes.  You're going to make some birdies and some bogeys.  Hopefully a lot of birdies. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I putted really well today.  Some days you can just see the lines, and I guess having played here so many times is an advantage, because there are subtle breaks on these greens. 
 There's no real, Wow, it's left to right.  There are a lot of putts that if you haven't played here a lot you get confused.  Today I just saw the lines and made a lot of good birdie putts. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Yeah, I practice, and I've been doing the four, five Monday qualifiers, but that's different.  You're trying to go for everything because you know you have to have a low round. 

 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I was about to walk to the tee for the Monday qualifier, but I had a feeling I'd get in because there were some people on the list that I kind of knew weren't coming that hadn't taken their name off the list. 
 People like me were waiting.  So I just had a feeling I'd get in.  But, you know, there was only six girls, I think, in qualifying, so I felt good about the qualifying as well.  That I had a good shot.  Sometimes there's 30, 40, trying for two spots. 

 Q.  Did you play in the qualifier? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Nope.  Didn't even have to tee off.  I was so happy. 

 Q.  Any family or friends come up? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  My parents come up when they found out I got in.  They haven't gotten to see me play in a while either.  So they've always come up to this event anyway.  I'm from Garden City on Long Island.  Was born in Queens.  My parents still live there, so it's not a bad drive to come up here. 

 Q.  They still live in Queens? 
 JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Garden City. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT