LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 24, 2002
Jean Bartholomew
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







DANA von LOUDA:  Thanks for coming in.  We'll go ahead and start with the questions.
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I have to remember what I did.  

Q.  Jean, it looked like you really had it going on the front nine and then kind of settled down to a string of pars on the front back.  Did the weather play a role in that?  I noticed the weather has been kind of deteriorating over the last couple of hours, getting windier and a little bit of rain, there toward the end.  Did that make it a little harder for you, just to try and hold onto pars and trying to avoid the mistakes?
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  It definitely was the back nine, the wind really picked up.  It was a different course than the back nine.  I had birdie chances out there, but I wasn't -- you know, you don't have those reachable par 5s on the back, and you have a couple of real severe greens on the back nine.  But I just kind of kept it in play.  I had a couple of short birdie putts that I missed, but I was happy with the even par on the back today.  So I got up and down a couple of times.

Q.  Like on No. 18, here you shot your second approach shot over the back of the green.  It had to be kind of -- 
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I had a bunch of trees there.  It was so downwind, I didn't -- you know, I hit a 2-iron off the tee, and I still went through the fairway.  Actually I did that yesterday, too.  It just rolled over the green.  It wasn't that hard of a shot.  I'm lucky.  I had a good lie back there.

Q.  Did that give you a little bit of an emotional lift, considering that you scrambled most of the way on 18, that you were able to save par, that was almost like hitting a birdie in some ways?
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I would say it's not like a birdie.  It was just -- you know, one way or the other, I wouldn't have been upset if I bogeyed it either, because I hadn't had a bogey all day.  This is a course you can make a lot of birdies, and you're going to expect to make a few bogeys because it's so narrow, and I'm not the straightest hitter in the world.  But I guess it was nice, par in the last.

Q.  What happened with that birdie putt on the 17?  The leaderboard is there behind you. 
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I thought it did break.  I totally misread it because I thought Janie Lidback, she was pretty much on the same line.  Her ball was breaking, and mine went dead straight.  I hit it where I wanted to.  So my caddie and I both were like, wow, total misreads.

Q.  How long have you been using that long putter?
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Eleven years, at least.  It's like a regular putter to me.  I've used it so long, I forget that it's long.

Q.  Was it like three, maybe four years ago that you were maybe in the same position I think after the second round, you were -- 
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Yeah, after the second round.

Q.  Is there something about this course that you're not really set your game up?
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I guess having shots is good scores here.  It's the kind of course I feel I can go low on, when I'm playing well, and I guess have some memories of some low numbers here.  I'm from New York, so maybe it's a New York thing, play at the State Juniors and all that stuff.  And my family comes, because I'm from Long Island and it's only five hours.  I don't know.  It's a combination of things.

Q.  When you're playing with someone that starts to struggle a little bit, does that bother you at all, or are you okay?
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Not really.  I know Jennifer Rosalis is struggling on the green.  That's basically all she struggled with the last two days.  She was really hitting it all over the place.  Sometimes that bothers you.  But I'm usually in my own world out there, and don't pay attention too much to what's going on around me.

Q.  I was going over your rounds from last year, and you got off to a pretty decent start last year and then kind of the last two days struggled.  Do you remember what happened last year and what caused that?
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I'd say even the last two years, people say what happens to you on the weekend, you start out pretty good; but honestly I've been hitting the ball so bad for the last two years, that I'd hang on for two days and it eventually would catch up with me, just hooking the ball really bad, and not being able to fire pins.  You hang on for two rounds, getting up and down; and eventually it catches up with me.  But I feel like I've made the turn, and this is the first week I've really started to hit the ball solid again.  I don't care how I finish.  I'm just so happy to be out there, hitting solid shots and having fun on the course.  I had two days of fun on the course.  I tell you, it's been two years since I've had fun out there, at least two years.

Q.  A couple of things I kind of noticed more of an ironic type thing.  First of all, right now, the two co-leaders are from New York, and also you and Beth Bauer were former Duke-ies, and we have someone from Wake Forest, who's ACC.  What do you think of that?
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Hey, go Duke Blue Devils.  I'm not rooting for Wake Forest.  Beth was -- I graduated way before she even got there, but she's a good player.  What did she go, one year?  She did go two.  Good for her.  I wish she would have finished, but she can always go back.  Maybe New Yorkers do well at this course too.  Laura hasn't lived here -- when did she --

Q.  Not in a while. 
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Really?  I was just home on Saturday.  I slept in my twin beds I grew up in.

Q.  You grew up in Queens?
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW: I was born in Queens, and grew up in Garden City, on Long Island.  I lived in Queens through sixth, I think.  Fresh Meadows.  So I'm not an up-stater.  We're different from down there.

Q.  I heard you say on TV, you were thinking about not coming this week?
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  No, I was not going to come.  I was so fed up playing bad.  I hopped in my car on Friday -- was it Friday?  I can't even remember.

Q.  Yeah. 
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I honestly believe I subconsciously missed that cut in Nashville, because I tripled my 17th hole.  I pulled a club out on the tee, that I would never hit, because I was like -- I just wanted to make myself angry.  I didn't want to play the weekend, playing that way.  Not consciously.  I think subconsciously I did that.  I went home.  I drove 14 hours back to Long Island, worked with a couple of friends, like my swing coach and one more, like a mental coach motivator kind of guy, and figured out a couple of things, and I could feel the difference right away; and started hitting it solid, and decided to come up Tuesday morning.

Q.  So did you not play in Augusta?
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  I played.  

Q.  So that was Augusta that you tripled -
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Yes.  I meant I got -- they all felt the same.  Yeah, it was Augusta.

Q.  Augusta, the 17th hole.  Okay. 
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  So it's probably good I got to rest a couple of days, and see my coach and kind of start fresh.  I felt like hey, I might as well go, because if I didn't get an Evion, I'll have that week off, coming up pretty soon too.

Q.  The round I think was 99, you shot 64 here.  With rounds like that, you feel like maybe you should go to the tournament?
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Maybe.  That could be a reason.  I stayed with a really nice family here.  I've stayed with them every year.  And that's one reason I like coming back.  I don't know.  It's a nice tournament, with the crowds being so supportive and the whole town coming out.  It's not too far away.  It's not a long drive.  Heck, I had some good scores here.

Q.  (Inaudible) Going to do your score card here.
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Well on the front, this will be easy.  Second hole, I hit 7-iron over the green.  We all went over.  That green was like concrete.  And got up and down from behind the green.  It was almost like the chip on the 18 there.  So that was kind of a --

Q.  (Inaudible).
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Oh, it was -- was it that far?  Three, four feet.  The best thing was the first hole, honestly, what really sparked me was I hit my drive to the right, and I was kind of blocked out, and hit a tree and ended up short right, hit a flop shot over the trees to about three feet, four feet, made a great par on the first, and it kind of relaxed me right there to make that par from jail.  Then I kind of started being a little freer after that.  So birdie, two.  Four, hit a 2-iron off the tee, and hit a sandwich to about six feet left of the pin, and made that.  And five, which was playing pretty -- into strong wind, I hit a good drive and a 5-iron to, what, 10 feet, 7, 8 feet behind the pin, made a nice putt to eagle there.  Eight feet.  I don't pay attention.  And then nine -- can't even remember.  Nine, I hit 2-iron, 2-iron and a gap -- a gap-wedge too.  I can't -- I'm losing it.  I know it wasn't that long a putt.  It was about 10 feet, maybe.

Q.  (Inaudible).
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Downwind.  And that was the end of the birdies.  Great up and down from 10 on the bunker.  I was kind of blocked out on the right.  And good up and down on the 18, and just kind of hit fairways and greens from the rest of the back nine.  It played hard.  It did play hard with the wind.  We're lucky.  Is it raining now?
DANA von LOUDA:  Anymore?  We're good.
JEAN BARTHOLOMEW:  Thanks, a lot guys.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT