NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: IOWA CITY
March 22, 2019
Susie Gardner
Amanda Thompson
KeKe Calloway
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Iowa 66, Mercer 61   
COACH SUSIE GARDNER: Well, obviously it's disappointing with the outcome.  I'm so proud of the way our guys competed and battled.  It was a great basketball environment.  I felt like their fans really pulled them through when they needed to be pulled through and our guys kept bouncing back and we had opportunities.  We never went away.   
We got off to a shaky start.  We were missing a lot of shots that we normally don't miss.  But we feel good about our effort.  We feel good about the game plan.  You know, and we lost to a really, really good Iowa basketball team.   
 Q.  You got off to a slow start but really came on.  Can you talk about the shot you took that hung on the rim forever and fell off at a key moment?  Did you think it was in?  
KEKE CALLOWAY: Yeah, I thought it was in.  It came out.  I felt like it was a good slot and it had a chance.  You know, either you're going to make it or you're going to miss it.  That shot, keep shooting regardless whether I make ten in a row or miss ten in a row.  Just keep shooting for my team.   
 Q.  To either player, you were able to force 24 turnovers and only committed three.  What was working so well for you in that regard?  
AMANDA THOMPSON: I think that was part of our game plan.  Get tips.  Get turnovers.  We wanted to keep the ball out of 10's hands so we were going to pressure the ball and that's what we did.  We focused on taking care of the ball.  We focused on that in practice the last two weeks.  Just value every possession.  We needed them all, so it was a focus for us.   
 Q.  You gave Iowa fits on their entry passes to Gustafson.  Is that something you saw on film, a way to approach that, stopping her?  
COACH SUSIE GARDNER: Actually we didn't see anyone do, and I didn't understand why.  All the film, I think we talked, I think it was yesterday or whenever it was when we talked, you asked me what our game plan was.   
I didn't see anyone do that.  I'm like watching film, why is no one trying to get tips, why is no one pressuring the passer.  We thought hey, that's how we do it.   
We knew she was going to get our points but our goal was to maybe not let her get so many touches as what she's used to.  That was definitely our game plan and I feel like it worked pretty well.  She still got 30 but we caused 24 turnovers.  So I'm really, really pleased with the way that turned out.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT