THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 25, 2014
Christopher Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I guess the obvious place to start is the eagle 2.   Must have been a chaft with that one.   
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   It was.   Things weren't working out the way I wanted to, but it was just going along steadily and I was playing well and it was 120‑yard little wedge shot in a cross‑wind, and went I think second or third bounce in the hole.   
So I was very happy with that.   Got the Back 9 going, and I started to swing a little freer.  
   
 Q.   Well, we know this game.   Sometimes you just need a little bit of stroke of fortune to get the mood going.   
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   That hasn't happened to me for a couple of years, so it was nice to have an eagle on the par‑4.   
I hit the ball a lot better today than I did yesterday.   I just didn't putt as good as I did yesterday.   But that's the way golf is.  
   
 Q.   Conditions?   Similar, lovely blue skies and sunshine, but the breeze up?  
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   Yes.   The breeze did come up.   It switched a little bit with about six holes to go.   It changed a bit of direction.   So the practice range is downwind.   So I played the last few holes just a bit more challenging, and the 16th hole is a difficult hole with the wind from left to right.  
   
 Q.   It sounds like you've gotta keep your wits about you at all times.   It's not one way you can switch off and free wheel for a moment.   
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   No.   In the links course, you know, sometimes it's just about the bounce and having a lucky break here and there.   
For example, I had a very poor calculation on the 18, and I couldn't see the pin, and I thought the bunker that I was looking at was right edge of the green when it was actually the left edge of the green.   I just missed it by a few feet.   And little things like that can help you keep your score ticking over.   But basically today I kept it in play the whole day.  
   
 Q.   It's so much about small margins, isn't it?  
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   Yeah.   It's marginal stuff.   But that's links golf.   I haven't played a lot of golf on links courses.   I'm very happy to be in this position.  
   
 Q.   Do you like it?   Do you like the creativity that's involved?  
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   Well, that depends on how you're playing.   If you're playing lousy, links course can be a nightmare, but I'm playing well and I'm enjoying it and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I know it's not even halfway stage during the tournament yet, but what do you think of that leaderboard when you see yourself so prominent and one man dominating at the moment?  
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   Well, we expect something like that from people like Langer who's played great golf.   Even as a senior golfer.   He's cleaned up in America a bit, but I think just to be around these guys is going to be exciting.   I'm looking forward to it because some of these guys I've never played with before.  
   
 Q.   Have a great weekend.   
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   Thank you very much.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT