U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 2013
Christopher Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Chris Williams, 66, 4 under today, 2 under for the Tournament. 
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   I'm not going to sing.   That's for sure.   This is not‑‑ not going to do karaoke.

Q.   When is the last time you've done that? 
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   Never.   It's the first time.   So it's a nice Tournament to do it in.   Tough holes, windy conditions.   It was fantastic to get off to a start like that.

Q.   Were the holes on those first six, were they set up in a way that ‑‑
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   No, not really.   The first hole, the pin was tucked very tight.   It was about a 7 iron only.   So it was a very delicate chip shot.   You know that No. 3 is a very tough hole.   And No. 5, the short hole, is a difficult pin as well.   It's a double level, and you have to be in the right spot.
But I just putted so well the first few holes, and the greens are running very nicely at that time of the morning.

Q.   Feel like the greens are a little bit quicker today? 
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   It's possible.   I don't think they're very quick.   They're deceptive looking, particularly on the back nine, a little bit short.   But I don't think they're that quick.   They're just running nicely.   Good pace, about 12, I think, 11 or 12. 
Obviously, they're running better because they don't have as much traffic on them today as they did the last few days.

Q.   [ No microphone ]. 
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   No.   The first two days, the putter was cold.   I was just two‑putting from all over the place.   I wasn't near the pin.   I was having long putts.   The first two days were defense putting all the time.   Just trying to protect two putts so far from the hole.   Today hit a couple next to the hole, and putting felt good. 
Playing with David Frost.   He has a fantastic short game and good putting stroke.   You just watch what these guys do and see if you can pick something up.

Q.   You played at all over here before, Chris? 
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   Just a couple of times.   Since I've turned 50, I've played in the Majors in America.   But other than that, not really.   The last time, before turning 50, was the World Series, '85. 

Q.   Long time. 
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   A long time ago.

Q.   Do you enjoy getting back over? 
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   It's nice.   It's great playing in the Majors, these great golf courses.   Since I've turned 50, I've played on fantastic golf courses, courses I never played on, on the young Tour, but it's been great fun. 
Played with tremendous players as well, players I was never good enough to play with as a youngster.   It's nice to play with these guys now and learn from the experience of playing with them.

Q.   How is your Euro Senior circuit going? 
CHRIS WILLIAMS:   Well, it hasn't been doing very well at the moment.   We're hoping for better times.   You know, the market in Europe is extremely difficult.   And at the moment, they only have the names that they do in America here. 
It's very difficult for the guys to go canvass and get tournaments.   They have a couple coming on the schedule at this moment, looks like we might end up with 15, but it's not enough.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT