THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 29, 2017
Charley Hoffman
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You guys were in control of the match the whole way.  What worked so well for you two together?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: We played good.  Unfortunately they didn't play probably up to what they wanted to, but we kept a lot of balls in play.  We gave ourselves opportunities and we made some birdies and eagles, and it was a lot of fun out there.  I know Kevin had fun.  I know I had fun.  Our first time around, I mean, getting a good victory like that feels good.   
 Q.  And getting the first point of the day for the United States, what is that experience like for you?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: You know, that was something that you've got to experience it by doing it.  You can't make it up.  You have to get out there, and to get off to a quick start was huge for us, to get that first point was awesome, now we get to watch some golf again and go root these guys on.   
 Q.  Earliest ending of a match so far this year.  You had to wait a long time to get here, and then you had to sit.  How tough was it to harness your enthusiasm?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: You know what, I took it pretty well, once he said it, but yesterday was hard.  Kevin and I were biting at the bit to get out there and play.  It sucks sitting, there's no question.  We are all capable out here but we definitely understood what Strick wanted to do.  He has a game plan and he has a mission, and our mission is to win this Cup.  Kevin and I understood that, but I think it gave us a little fire and a little momentum going into today.   
 Q.  Everybody wants to help.  Nobody wants to sit.  Little bit of a message from you guys:  Look somebody else to sit, we're playing?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I have no intentions but playing the rest of the way.  Just excited to get that first point and really enjoy the day and represent our country well.   
 Q.  First time for both of you.  It's an electric atmosphere out here.  What was it like for you?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I really tried to embrace it, especially in between holes, crowds were so great, so pro U.S.  It's hard not to be jacked up when you're out here playing.   
 Q.  You both started out hot.  Does that make it easier to play an aggressive style like that, knowing that if it doesn't come off, you've got a lot of confidence in your partner that he's going to pick it up?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Our team is as good as you're ever going to get put together or not.  We have total confidence.  If I'm out of the hole, he's going to get it done with a birdie or a par; and if he's out of the hole, I'm going to get it done.  But good thing that I was really only out of one hole and he was never really out of the hole.  It was a lot of fun out there.  Most importantly, we had fun.  There are smiles on our face the whole time, and we have to do that even if we get down.  We're going to embrace this today and we're going to have to go out and play hard tomorrow.   
 Q.  What about the hybrid shot on 12?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I knew par was still going to be a good score.  I know Kevin didn't have much from where he was at, so I was just trying to hit a good shot and not give it a chance for par so he could have a chance to attack and make birdie.  Obviously turned out better than I could ever have dreamed, and making that 4 was nice.   
 Q.  What were you feeling standing over the last putt, just inside five feet?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: End it.  That's all you want it do.  I thought it was going to be for the halve and we were going to have to play another hole.  I was thinking I was going to make that putt all day long.   
 Q.  Is this as much fun as you thought it would be?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: More fun.   
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Way more fun.   
 Q.  Sitting, and then getting off to that early start and keeping that momentum going.  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, it was tough to sit.  I told Kevin, we're not very good cheerleaders, and we have great wives.  We're not very good at that, doing what they do.  We like wearing the pants.  We like going out there and playing, and hopefully we still get a couple more opportunities the rest of the week.   
 Q.  We have some young guys and older guys, first-timers out here.  Do you think it's harder for you guys, knowing how much you really wanted to be a team team, and the young guys are showing up, it's cool, we're on a team?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: That being said, I think our team has great perspective.  Guys have battled their career to make the team at 40 and we have guys that know nothing but being on teams.  I think we bring that kind of into the team and as a whole, we're very experienced and ready to go.   
 Q.  Your DNA is very similar; how much fun is it when you play the same way?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: There was no real strategy besides be ourselves and play our own game and make birdies, and that's what we do great.  I think we did a great job of it today, and keep it going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT