THE PRESIDENTS CUP
September 27, 2017
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What's the experience been like so far?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: It been a lot of fun, getting to know these guys on a much more intimate level, not just as competitors but now they are teammates and definitely making some great friendships.   
The dinners have been great for me.  Me and my wife, getting to experience new people, and getting to kind of yuck it up with guys that you wouldn't normally do it with, and getting to know about them and kind of just taking the whole experience.   
 Q.  What do you think of this course as a match-play course?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I like it a lot.  There's not a lot of risk/reward out there just because fairways run out.  So it's not like you can have a big advantage.  If you're laying up, everyone is laying up, or if you're going, everyone can go.  So there's not a lot of different ways to play the golf course.  But you know, I think it will be a great match play course in the sense, you're going to see a lot of birdies and you're going to see a lot of holes won with 15-footers going in, which is exciting.   
 Q.  How do you think the experience will be on the first tee?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: One of the first team meetings we had, guys talked about how great it is actually to sit and get to watch your peers play and root your teammates on.  I look forward to embracing that role and I'll be there on the first tee and watch all these matches go off and get in a little work myself and be there to watch these matches end.   
Definitely, having teammates again for the first time again in ten years for me or eight years for me is great.  There's definitely a lot more strategy to this than there was ever in college golf.   
 Q.  What's the funniest thing that you've seen, heard this week?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I don't think I can share that (laughs).   
Just getting to pick guys brains; the practice rounds have been a blast.  Getting to watch how guys hit different shots or picking each other's brains and stuff like that, has been very insightful.  I guess probably the most impressive thing I've seen is just how much work goes in from the captain's side of it and how much strategy there really is to putting this team together.   
 Q.  Has it been a while since you've played in this format?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I played the Shark Shootout last year and played in Zurich.  Works out good.  My partner, I played with Gary at Zurich, so obviously he's not here.  But if you end up playing with a partner in Zurich that ends up being on a team, that's definitely an advantage.   
 Q.  What's the best part about being on the team so far?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I've just really enjoyed just getting to know everyone on more than just a surface level.  You know, having dinners and talking to people's wives and learning about their families and where they grow up and that type of stuff has been great.  And on the golf course, playing practice rounds with guys you don't usually play with and see how they do things and getting to pick their brains, it's been very insightful.   
 Q.  What do you think about not playing tomorrow?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: That sucks, the competitor in me wants to play, but I'll get my chance.  You know, I'll be there on the first tee to support these guys and be there when they finish, and hopefully in the middle there, get some work in on my game myself.  It will be nice to see how guys handle it and I'll be that much more prepared on Friday when my number's called.   
 Q.  Have you had much interaction with Tiger, and can you give a sense of how involved he is?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, he's been unbelievable.  You know, very engaging, very motivating and quick to give advice and offer help when needed.  It's been awesome to interact with him.   
 Q.  What will you do tomorrow?  How much will you practice?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I'll be there to watch these guys tee off and be supportive and get to kind of experience the first tee for myself.  And then I'll do a little work while they are grinding it out and then I'll be there when they finish, so I'll get a couple hours practice in.  We can play -- but we have to stay four holes behind.  I don't know if I'm too interested in that.  But get a little practice in, get my hands on the clubs and get ready to go on Friday.   
 Q.  Are you happy the way things worked out this year --  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, I guess I have a better understanding of what it takes and how to make a team, I guess.  Obviously this is new, being on a team, and yes, of course I'm happy the way it worked out to get my first Cup event in New York City, with definitely a pro-American crowd.  It's going to be real special.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT