DELL TECHNOLOGIES CHAMPIONSHIP
September 4, 2017
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How much was Presidents Cup on your mind today?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: You try to put it out of the back of your mind but it's pretty hard to do.  My attitude all year has been it would be an honor to play on The Presidents Cup team.  But you know, not being there means another week home with family and probably means I tee it up at the Safeway Open.
You know, there's positives to both, and obviously I would rather be in New York City representing Team USA but that's kind of how I've tried to look at it is one or the other.
As far as the round today, it was kind of weird.  I thought the course played difficult.  Obviously there's some good scores out there; the wind blowing, seemed like guys in-between clubs all day.  Just never could make the saves when I needed to.
Q. Kind of weird:  You're done, Charley's done, and yet this thing isn't decided yet.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: It's a little weird but it comes with the game we play, and often you rely on others.  What was it, seven years ago, I was giving these interviews, not knowing if I was going to have a job next year.
So I'd much rather be doing this -- relying on others to get me on a Presidents Cup team or not put me on a Presidents Cup team isn't great.  It definitely could get worse.
Q. If you happen to fall to 11th, are you fairly confident that Steve will pick you, or how do you feel?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: You know, I have no idea.  You know, Phil's obviously done his part this week, and with all the press around if he's going to get a pick or not.  He's shown he's got some game this week.  I would assume that's where one of those spots would go.
As far as the next few guys in the line, I don't know if anyone's really played great.  I've made my last five cuts and three or four Top 15s in that spell.  This is really the poorest I've played.  Under the circumstances, I feel like my game is in a good place and just didn't score well enough to compete this week.
Q. Were you thinking about it on 18 at all?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: You know, it doesn't do you any good.  No one really knows the projections.  Obviously making bogey doesn't help me.  Kind of got a bad break.  I had a terrible lie in the bunker.  Hit a great second shot and then was in a divot or in like a loose divot, and honestly didn't feel like I hit that bad of a shot.  Came up 30 yards short.
I was nervous and excited and unaware of what was going on.  It's something I wouldn't wish on anyone, but again, I've also had to make a 4-footer to keep my job, and that was way worse.
As a competitor, you want to accomplish these things and accomplish these goals.  If I'm lucky enough to do that, it would be quite an honor.  If not, I guess I'll be on the phone with Captain Stricker and trying to get his ear and tell him why I need to be on that team.
Q. Do you feel like you have some unfinished business at Liberty National?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I don't know.  Who's got the course record there?
Q. I think you do.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Correct.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT