RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 29, 2017
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You said this was a late addition for you, and now you find yourself in the final pairing heading into Sunday.  You must be happy with that decision?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, it's worked out so far.  I was hoping to be in contention and have a chance to win a golf tournament.
Q. What was the thinking behind adding this tournament so late, considering how grueling the schedule is towards the end of the season?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I liked where my game was at last week at The Open Championship.  My family is spending the summer in Seattle.  So I felt like I could get some more reps here instead of flying the way all the way across the country to Seattle and flying back to Akron.  This was really to prep for Akron and the PGA and place me in the FedExCup Playoffs, and so far, so good.
Q. You said one of the things really clicking is your putting.  Let's start on the 9th from three feet.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Was able to bounce back after the bogey on 8.
Q. And accuracy off the tee as we look at 15.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: One of my favorite swings of the day, three-quarter 9-iron.
Q. 17, your second shot.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: This is a comfortable 56-degree wedge, 112 yards.  Always fun when the crowd stands up.  Looks like it's going to go in.
Q. How aware are you at this point are you where you're at on the leaderboard?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Charley is playing in front of me, so it was pretty easy to know what he was doing.  But they don't pay you on Saturdays.  So not too worked up about it.  You know, look forward to playing a good round tomorrow.
Q. Talk us through what happened on 18.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: The mistake was in the layup.  I fatted it and tried to get that ball left of the hole.  Just came out short right and I was fortunate today to get a bogey there.  Kind of feel like I kept some momentum going.
Q. You're a winner, a first-time winner at the Valero Texas Open.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, second time being in contention after Valero; this is a place I feel comfortable.  I know I'm going to play well.
Q. Let's look at the win that you had in San Antonio.  Going into tomorrow now, you know you can do it, you don't have to think, well, I'm trying to get my first win.  We've seen that you can handle the pressure.  Does it change anything the way your outlook is for tomorrow?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: No, my outlook -- I know I'm going to play well.  It's just a matter of if it's going to be good enough.  Playing with Charley, we're good friends.  We should have some laughs.
I've been working hard on the putting and saw a difference today.  So that was encouraging and if I roll like that tomorrow, anything can happen.
There's four par 5s that are all gettable, and unfortunately I played them 1-under today, but you know, there's a lot of wedges, too.  So you're going to have convert with the wedges and if you can convert around 50 percent with your wedges, you're going to have a great day.
Q. Got the first one.  Looking for the second one here in Canada?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, why not.
Q. Looks like you're going to be paired with Charley tomorrow.  Are you guys good buddies is that a good pairing for you?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, we are good friends.  Our caddies are staying together.  We'll have some laughs and it will be a comfortable pairing, that's for sure.
Q. Coming off the 18th for your third shot, there was a bit of a delay with getting a volunteer out of the way.  Did that affect your focus?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: No, honestly the mistake was on the second shot.  Probably should have taken more time and not taken that shot for granted.  I miss-read the lie.  The poor volunteer was just doing his job.  He couldn't not move when I was getting ready to take it back.  My caddie moved him.  It is what it is.  I hit the shot.  I actually feel pretty good about making six there.
Q. Overall state of your game going into tomorrow?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I couldn't ask to be in a better spot compared to where it was last week at this time in The Open Championship.  I'm glad I added Canadian Open late and look forward to the challenge tomorrow.
Q. You're pretty good friends with Graham DeLaet; do you feel like you're getting some good vibes off your pal there?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, he's a good friend of mine.  His family and my family are very close.  Went over and had a barbeque last night and I was able to play with his kids.  Made me miss mine even more but it's great to have some home cooking and be so close to the Canadians and know you have some support out here.
Q. What went into the decision to put the Canadian Open in your schedule?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: My family and I live in Seattle, Washington in the summer months.  It was going to be hard on me to get back west from The Open Championship and then be ready to go for Akron physically.  So it made sense, especially after missing the cut, come here, get some reps and really start to prepare for Akron and the PGA.
You know, maybe that kind of lazy, laid-back attitude has put me in the position I'm in.
Q. You got your first win out of the way earlier this year.  How important is it having done that already heading into tomorrow?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: When I tee up tomorrow, nobody cares that Charley has four wins or whatever and I have one.  I think we'll both give it all we've got.  It's still a packed leaderboard.  You saw early that someone could shoot 10-under par out there.
Q. Seeing a 10-under 62 early in the day, right at the top of the leaderboard, how does that affect your mentality before you tee off?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I honestly didn't know Rob shot 62 until we made the turn, but I knew the scores were out there.  Hasn't really firmed up the way I expected it to, especially with the wind blowing yesterday like it did.  But this course is in great shape.  The greens are rolling really good, and you know, with it as soft as it is, these guys are going to make a lot of birdies.
Q. With the finish having three par 5s in the last six holes and playing in the last group, is there a sense that you're not out of it until you get those par 5s to play for yourself?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, you have three eagle chances in the last six holes there.  So that makes for an interesting finish.  As you saw the way I played them today, they are not gimmies.  You have to still drive it good.  Unfortunately I wasn't able to do that.
I think it's exciting and I look forward to that finish tomorrow.
Q. Driving is a theme of yours but today your iron game was on.  How did you put together the 66?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I just gave myself some good looks and was able to convert.  Nice to see a few putts go in that didn't go in the first couple days.  But all in all a good day.
Q. Putting a big theme; what were the greens doing today?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: They were soft.  I guess maybe Joe, my caddie, and I had a good understanding of the reads and I was able to get it started on line a little better than I had earlier in the week.
Q. You told me earlier in the week that you were still waiting for your game to come back into form after the win at Valero.  Where is that now?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Obviously it's in a good place.  I can't complain about the position I'm in.  I added this event to get some more reps in to get ready for the PGA Championship and Akron next week.  Obviously happy I added it and look forward to the challenge tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT