MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2017
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about 7. What club and distance, first of all. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL: 137 yards hole and I hit a pitching wedge. 
The scoreboard that is there behind 7 green and 8 tee, there's some numbers on it, we were trying to aim right at those numbers. And it landed probably just left of those and it landed, it looked good. And the patrons stood up, so that's always a good sign. So, obviously, when it went in there was no mistaking where that ball was.

Q. Obviously, highlights of Masters, that's got to rank right up there with any highlight you've had in your golf career, doesn't it?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, any time you're getting crystal from Augusta National it's a good day and a good shot. 
Definitely a lot of par‑5s around here, you kind of expect to make an eagle on one of those, but, no, to steal one on 7 was even more special.

Q. How had you played that hole earlier in the week?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Very poorly. I made bogey on Thursday, a good bogey on Thursday and then an unbelievable par yesterday from 17 fairway. So, to hit the fairway was a big relief and then to not have to putt on that green was an even bigger relief.

Q. Was that right on club for you as far as pitching wedge?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, it was just a full pitching wedge and knew that there was plenty of room long and that club was going to spin back to the hole. And it landed maybe one or two paces long and went right in the hole.

Q. I guess the only nice thing would have been if you could have actually saw it roll in the hole. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, there was no mistaking where that thing was. Always fun to get the patrons out of their chairs around Augusta National and I was fortunate to do it there.

Q. Now you rode some of the adrenaline from that on number 8 with a birdie. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, I kind of got away with two pretty poor shots, off the tee and then the poor second shot, but had 50 yards to the hole and hit it in there close and was able to tap it in. Kind of created a little momentum for the round. 

Q. Obviously, the bogey on 18 a little disappointing, how differently has 18 played today than it's played early in the week or does it play much differently?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: It definitely has. The tee shot I hit‑‑ I needed that wind we had earlier in the week‑‑ I hit it dead straight at the corner of that first bunker, it kicks it left in there. Disappointed to make bogey, but all in all a good day to shoot 70 on a Saturday at Augusta National, can't complain.

Q. You like where you're at on the leaderboard? Obviously you would like to have had that one more stroke going into tomorrow?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, with these guys making the turn at 5‑ or 6‑under par, you would expect the lead maybe to get to 7‑, 8‑, 9‑under, that's probably a little farfetched to be eight to 10 back, but there's other things to play for out here and it's been a rough year, so for me, so just looking forward to creating some momentum for the remainder of my PGA TOUR year.

Q. That puts you in shape to be in the top‑10, which is a huge thing out here. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Correct. Correct.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT