TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2016
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Finishing with a 5, I'm not going to win any golf tournaments.  Have to learn from it.  I'll be better next time.   
 Q.  Other than that, it's been a great year.  Congratulations on that.  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Thank you.   
 Q.  You played all four rounds regulation in the 60s, with your position comfortable on this golf course.  When you look back on this day, what will you remember?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: The two 5s on the last two holes.  I handled myself well.  I felt comfortable, and I just didn't get it done.  Probably a little unlucky.  The two lies I drew on 17 and 18.  But I got some good breaks up to that point.   
Play again in Malaysia and hopefully get in the mix again, and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  More positives you leave with here than the negative?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I can't be negative even if I want to be.  I made three bogeys all week.  Made two today, but three all week, four rounds in the 60s at East Lake.  Finished wherever I finished in the FedExCup.  It was a good year.  That's the way I'm going to look at it.   
 Q.  Kevin, what do you think the difference was out there today?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: For me, it was the two 5s on 17 and 18.  Played those two holes in 10.  Probably not going to win too often.  I gave it all I had and got some good breaks, got some bad breaks there the last couple holes.  But I'm proud of the way I fought.  It just wasn't enough today.   
 Q.  For those of us watching outside the ropes, watching you guys perform at such a high level, how would you describe the pressure of those moments?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: It was a nervy day.  I woke up and was quite nauseous, but excited and ready to go.  I got in a good place before I teed off.  I was very comfortable all day, even surprising myself.  So proud of that.  I can take that and move forward.   
 Q.  One of the things I was just about to ask you.  What do you take away from an experience like this?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Well, probably just how hard it is to win out here.  And then just how good my game is.  You know, I fought Dustin Johnson, and it looks like Rory and Ryan Moore have another playoff hole.  But those three guys, their names have been at the top of the leaderboard for a good portion of this year, and I gave them all I had.   
I'll go back to the drawing board and work on my game, and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  The first playoff hole, the one that you just played, take us through that and what kind of pressure you felt coming down that last fairway.  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: No, it wasn't necessarily too much pressure.  I was kind of in that situation all day.  I hit a bad tee shot, and it was out of position.  I wasn't able to get the ball back in position to make birdie.   
 Q.  Really you've had a great week and a great season.  A lot of good weeks and a lot of close calls for you.  What do you take away from this season as a whole?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: It's been life changing.  Taking me to places and positions I've never been in before.  I look back very fondly on 2015/'16.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT