TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2016
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Kevin, how aware are you of the scenarios?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Not at all.  I walked off, and the Tour told me what would need to happen.  With the form Dustin Johnson's in, I don't think that scenario is going to happen for me.  But there's a chance to win a golf tournament, and that's all I'm really focused on.
Q. How did you find it today?  Obviously very good.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: The course is in fantastic shape.  First time being here.  I noticed the ball was going really far because it's hot and you get just enough wind when you hit the downwind holes that you can get the ball moving pretty good.  I really enjoyed myself.
Matt and I have a comfortable pairing there.  That always helps.
Q. [ No microphone ]?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I don't know if I had heard anything that I hadn't seen on television.  It's an event that -- you know, it's got some iconic holes and something that you probably catch a lot of, even if you're not playing in it.  So I had seen a lot of the holes, what is now 8 and 9.  That finish was always fun to watch, and it's even more fun to play.
Q. Is there anything about the week so far that's different than you would have expected?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: You know, there's not more commitments, but you have a lot more opportunity here.  We all have a sponsor value to do because there's no pro-am, and probably a rookie move not planning my travel around that a little bit better.
The Tour was nice enough -- Mr. Finchem was nice enough to host a dinner for us last night.  There's two nights for me that I'm kind of out of my norm, which is great but also different.
Q. How much did you see the course before today?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I played nine holes on Tuesday, and I played 18 holes yesterday.  I think preferably I would have just played nine, nine, nine.  But once I got here, it was hot on Tuesday.  I set out to play 18, and I said, Why don't we just treat it like it's a normal week.  I'll play my pro-am tomorrow, and so I did that.
Q. Does this debunk the idea that the more experience you have on a course, the better suited you are to play it?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: It's one round, but I think, if you do your homework and you've got -- today I had really good ball control.  I think you can play anywhere with that.
It's always an advantage to know where the pins are and remember a putt that you had.  Like for me, I'll refer to next year when I'm here, or the next time I get here, I'll refer to that pin on the last would rather be short left rather than past it left, and it would be a lot easier to get it in the hole.
Q. [ No microphone ]?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: No.  I mean, we kind of touched on this.  I've completely erased that from my mind.  It's not going to happen.  Even if I win the golf tournament.  So we can stop referring to that.  But, yes, it would be nice to win $10 million.  It wouldn't change my life.  I'm a pretty simple man.  I wouldn't stop playing golf any younger or be less motivated.
Q. As you've reviewed some of your better performances this year, what is the difference that you come up with?  What do I need to do between finishing second and winning a golf tournament?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I need to play 72 holes like I played the front nine here, probably not take my foot off the gas like it appeared on the back.  I felt like I gave myself a lot of good opportunities.  The ball didn't go in the hole.  But I felt like I stuck to my process and did everything right.
But it's no secret I can improve around the greens, and when I have success, I'm in the positive strokes gains around the greens, and I typically hole a shot from off the green.  I don't know what the stats said, but I holed a shot from off the green today.  So far, so good.
Q. What would you do with $10 million besides buy a reliever?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I think it's a long closer we need for the Giants.  What would I do with $10 million?  I'd probably put it away and make sure my kids would live comfortably as well.
Q. Thanks.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Awesome.  No one asked a Ryder Cup question.  [ Laughter ].






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT