THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2016
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
KEVIN CHAPPELL: It kind of mirrored my week, slow start, then fought real hard and played good there for a stretch on the back nine.  Really proud of the way I hung in there.  I was 2-over par through 27 holes of the golf tournament.  Looks like I'm short; that's disappointing, but really proud of the way I hung in there.   
 Q.  You had nine-hole stretches this week of 29, 31 and 32.  What do you take from that in one of the biggest championships on a golf course that's so difficult?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I've got a lot of horsepower.  This horse can run.  Got to get rid of some of the bogeys.  I really didn't scramble that well this week, and I feel like that's been something I've leaned on this whole year.  Just look at it as an anomaly, and got to get back to work and get at it again at Colonial.   
 Q.  Really for you I thought it was an excellent job from Thursday through today.  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, you know, I'm really proud of the way I hung in there.  I was 2-over par through 26 holes in the golf tournament, and really fought hard to make the cut, then played well yesterday, and a disappointing finish, but to hang in there today after kind of a slower start, I'm real proud of myself.   
 Q.  I thought you really enjoyed yourself, too.  I saw a lot of personality come out.  You chest-bumped your caddie, almost knocked him over.  You threw the ball into the crowd after the eagle today, and a guy almost went in the water, by the way.  How much fun did you have out there?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, it's a blast, and that's always a goal of mine is to keep it fun.  We lose sight of that it's a game at times, and I clearly play well when I have a blast.  I try to pull at that when I need to.   
 Q.  Tough track.  This is a really hard golf course.  You've got to be proud of yourself because you fought these really tough conditions?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, especially on the weekend.  The golf course played so difficult, and I really didn't feel like I putted it great.  To hang in there and shoot 5-under on the weekend in those conditions helped me move up the leaderboard.   
 Q.  Second time you've finished runner-up so far this year.  Still a long way to go, but you've got to be pleased the game is trending in a really good direction, don't you think?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, third on the season, second in '16, second to Jason Day.  That's getting a little old, but I've got to get to work.  I've got to putt it better, got to scramble better to lift the trophy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT