THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2016
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CANDACE REINHEIMER: This is your second runner-up finish to Jason this season, third overall for the season, and your second place finish moves you to fifth place in the FedExCup standings.  Tell us how you feel about your round.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: You know, it kind of mirrored my week, slow start, and really fought there in the middle of the round to salvage it, make birdie on 9 and then chip in on 11 really created some momentum, and then I finished strong, which was nice.
CANDACE REINHEIMER: You fought tough conditions with this being the weekend rounds yesterday and today.  Did that factor into any kind of problems for you, or were you able to --
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, I mean, I shot 5-under par, had a lot of offense on the weekend, but I'm sure there was a lot of bogeys, especially yesterday.  It was tough knowing where to miss, when to miss, and how to get out of that trouble.  I'm not sure what Jason's scrambling stats were, but they were much better than mine on the week, and that was a big factor into scores yesterday.
Q. Did you have a lot of confidence during the round with the conditions the way they were?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, you know, I felt like I had good control of my golf ball all week and even today.  Even getting off to a slow start, it wasn't because I was hitting it poorly.  I had a bad three-putt and missed a couple short par putts there to start the round.  But I just tried to stay patient and told my caddie, let's get 12 birdie looks, or 11 birdie looks coming in, and I was 10 for 11 coming in, so that was nice.
Q. If it weren't for that pesky world No. 1, you would have won a couple tournaments already this year.  Still a good day; you won $1.3 million.  What has to happen for you to take that next step?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Your guess is as good as mine.  Jason enters the tournament, and it doesn't change the goal.  The goal is still to win the golf tournament.  I've come up short twice.  Obviously a little closer at Bay Hill than I was here.  But I feel like my game is in the right spot.  This week looking back, I've got to scramble better, and I've got a chance to win.  Other weeks it might be different because I really have scrambled well this year statistically, so I think that's an anomaly, and just keep getting comfortable near the lead.  This is probably the most comfortable I've been coming down the stretch, and it showed with my ball control and controlling myself.
CANDACE REINHEIMER: Thank you, Kevin.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT