ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 20, 2016
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARK WILLIAMS: Kevin, thanks for coming in.  This is your 4th runner up on the PGA TOUR now and in your 150th start.  Obviously it was a pretty good battle out there today.  Can you just explain to us what you're feeling right now and what it feels like in the situation?   
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I'm exhausted, first of all.  To be in contention that long and really have a chance was just icing on the cake and I was -- I heard guys talk about with the best round of golf they've I ever played.  Not necessarily those are the emotions but you had to stay present and really not get ahead of yourself and I did a pretty food job of it.  Probably could have done a better job but, you know, all in all, I guess it was a good week.   
 Q.  You talk about the key birdie at 16 and that really crucial save at 17.  How tough the shots were?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah.  So 16 probably got away with the tee shot and I had a good lie in the first cut and kind of a hanging lie into a right to left wind so I just cut it back into it, took a lot of club.  Had 203 to the hole, hit 4-iron and cut it back into it and didn't hit it great.  Both of them might bounce up the ridge and it didn't.  Pretty actually easy look from 30 feet up the hill and just pushed it a little early and didn't come back and on 17 tee I couldn't figure out where the wind was blowing.   
It played for just a cross, just mishit the 5-iron.  It was 206 to carry.  If it carries it should chase back there as low as I hit it and I'm not sure where it landed but it was close and I'm fairly comfortable with my bunker play and, you know, it was about as standard a bunker shot as you could ask for even in that situation.   
If I catch it solid it flies up there like it did.  If I catch it fat, it trembles up there just as close, probably.   
 Q.  When did you figure out or did you know where everybody stood on those last three holes?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I did look at the leaderboard.  I obviously heard that roar when I was 18 green.  I guess Jason made birdie, and right before I putted and so I kind of figured and I mean being honest, kind of had me rattled a little bit and I hit such a poor first putt and obviously I hit a good second one which was something I did really well today was cleaned up the 5, 6-footers and I came up short but what else.  I gave it all I had.   
 Q.  You teed off on 18 and didn't really -- hadn't seen a board.  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I didn't think I had created enough separation to stop going forward.  Your gut tells you and my gut was right, I needed to make another birdie.   
 Q.  Kevin, could you just discuss the lie you found in the rough on 18 and the decision to lay back?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah.  There was no option.  I don't even think we got a number over, the lie was so poor.  The question was do you take on the lake with a lay up or do you just go left of it?   
I hit it like 90-yard shot and it was right in the middle of the fairway and actually had a pretty good number from -- for my 3rd and just couldn't commit to what the wind was doing.  If I had a lot of help I could have hit a full 60-degree, looking at the flags showing dead across, maybe a little in.  I went with a little kind of off speed 56 and I pulled it but I had a look at par which is all you can ask for.   
 Q.  Kevin, just your thoughts on Jason's finish.  Birdies at 17 and up and down at 18 which obviously you watched.  He had to have those two to turn it around.  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: It's obviously those things one of many why he's been the No. 1 player in the world, why I'm the 150th player in the world.   
You just can't bogey the last when you're in contention and hats off to Jason.  He played well, real clutch down the stretch and I'll learn from this and I'll get better.   
 Q.  Nevertheless you gave it all you had.  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah.  I don't think he wanted to go another hole with me but, you know, he won and that's all that matters.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Pretty exhausted.  All the things that were in my sinuses are in my throat.  I'm starting to get rid of that, which is good.   
 Q.  Did you hit driver on 18?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I did.  I guess if you guys are going to give me a mulligan again I go back and hit 3-wood.  My natural shape is probably little left to right with the tee.  With that driver left to right you can't start it far enough left and I could have stumbled and went down there.  I felt like driver wasn't going to go through and really hadn't hit too many bad ones with the driver today.   
MARK WILLIAMS: Anything more for Kevin?  Thank you very much for joining us and great tournament.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT