NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 20, 2016
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 5-under in the third round, can you give us a quick overview of your round?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I guess for me, what stands out the most is the par saves.  Especially in the middle of the back nine there.  12, 13, 14, and then 3-putt 15, probably the easiest save I had, and then to make it on 16 and 18 for birdie really was kind of the icing on the cake.  Take advantage of some good shots there.
Q. Is the course firming up a little bit?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: It is firming up a little bit.  I think the shot I hit on the last, I just kind of had a feeling it was going to release pretty good.  I played it properly.  It released probably 12 steps, so that was good to see, especially when you're playing for it.
Q. Did making the saves give you any confidence going into those last few holes?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, definitely.  I played a similar back nine yesterday where I think I only hit two greens, made two birdies, and played them 2-under par.
It was something that I guess I'm comfortable scrambling on that side.  I obviously don't want to rely on that but it was good to pull from that.
Q. Is this a golf course that you can feel comfortable at any point?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I'm very fortunate, I've played as much golf around here as anyone, going to school at UCLA.  I've probably played the most golf at these times we're playing at; the early tee time yesterday, teed off at 6:40.  I don't think I know any other way than to play in golf course at that time.  We used to play it real early in school.
Yeah, definitely comfortable around here.  Know where to miss and know what holes to stay away from and what holes to take advantage of.
Q. Is there any added pressure being here at Riviera where you played as a collegiate?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: /KWROFRL any I don't feel any pressure.  I don't feel outside pressure.  The pressure is internal for me.  There is definitely a lot more support and a desire to play well.  It's definitely a tournament I circle in my schedule every year and look forward to giving them a good show.
Q. You've been in this situation a few times before the last couple years.  Did you learn anything that you can take into tomorrow?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, I really have looked forward to getting in this moment again.  Especially after finishing second at McGladrey.  I really was proud of the way I handled myself, even though Kevin Kisner kind of ran away from us.  I really was comfortable and so I've been looking forward to getting back into contention again.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT