THE RSM CLASSIC
November 21, 2015
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know probably not the start you wanted today, but how proud are you of the way you bounced back and put something together to keep yourself in the mix?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, no, I couldn't be happier with the way I bounced back and handled a little adversity early in the round.
Just really fought hard and tried to give myself as many opportunities as I could.  Made some birdies, which was nice.
Didn't play my way out of it, which looked like I could early in the round.
Q. You were also playing alongside Kevin and seeing what he's doing.  Felt like you guys were ham and egging a little on the back nine?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, our best ball on the back nine was probably pretty low.  Obviously he birdied the last three to create some separation.  He's been in this situation a lot lately, and probably take a low one from me tomorrow to have a chance.
Q. What's the goal and focus tomorrow?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Try and feed off the way I played the last 16, 15 holes today and really embrace that and the opportunity and make him think about what he's doing a little bit.
Q. That was a gutsy fight back for you from a rough start.
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, you know, I couldn't be more proud of the way I hung in there and really turned -- posted a pretty good score from where I started.
Especially from some of the experiences I've had this year in this situation.  Could have been easy for me to let it go sideways, but I hung in there and gave myself a chance.
Q. Certainly did.  Oftentimes success in tournaments is a function of kind of getting by your bad day.  You did that today.  Thoughts to tomorrow?
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, going to need to get the ball in the fairway.  Even with the wind I need to drive it better and make a few more putts and see what happens.
Kevin is obviously playing some good golf.  Fun to watch that finish.  But shoot a low one tomorrow and make him think about what he's doing and see what happens.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT