QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
August 1, 2015
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Kevin, wonderful 4-under par today.  You're now tied for the lead going into the final round.  But most important moment today when you walked off here and saw your son, Wyatt, before you signed your card.  The look on your face was priceless.  KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, you know, 67, 87 that's about my day everyday.  It's always exciting to go see him and get to watch him grow.  He's only a few weeks old but he's grown so much and learning so much everyday.   Q.  You've been knocking on the door now.  Game much more solid and consistent.  What is it going to take from the start from your perspective to seal the deal here for the first time?  KEVIN CHAPPELL: You know, I've done a really good job of functioning this week.  That's the grass, that's the sky, that's the hole, this is my ball.  Shoot the lowest score tomorrow and I win the golf tournament. That's the goal.  And if I can function there and play my game I think I'll be all right.   Q.  With the obvious good scoring conditions with the golf course, does it make it easier knowing you got to make a bunch of birdies or make it more difficult?  KEVIN CHAPPELL: I mean if you're getting the ball in play it's go time.  The greens are soft and roll good enough you can make a lot of putts.  If you're getting out of play you got some stress.  It's hard to score in that position as it is anywhere. I've been driving it well.  My iron play has been where I want it to be.  I look forward to the challenge tomorrow.   Q.  Well done through the first three days.  Good luck tomorrow.  KEVIN CHAPPELL: Thank you.   Q.  Solid day on the golf course, 12 of 14 fairways, 14 of 18 greens, 4-under par, tied for the lead heading into Sunday.  Got to feel pretty good.  KEVIN CHAPPELL: Feels great.  Played a solid round of golf.  Really feel like I controlled my ball well early and late in the round.  And I missed a few short putts but made a good one on 17.  Hit a beautiful putt on 18.  Tough to read.  And I'm excited about where my game is, excited about the opportunity.   Q.  What was the golf course like out there after it hasn't rained a little bit?  What's the golf course playing like?  KEVIN CHAPPELL: It's firming up.  It's still fairly soft and getable.  Again, got to hit fairways and get the ball in play and get it on the right side of these ledges.  Lot of humps and bumps in the greens.  You got to hit it close but also makes it difficult when you don't.   Q.  Puts everything in perspective, from off the green there's your wife and son, Wyatt there.  Makes everything pretty good.  KEVIN CHAPPELL: It does.  67, 87, doesn't matter.  Spending time with them is the best part of my day everyday.   Q.  Kevin, when you go out and Troy shoots the 61 this morning, you have a 67, are you satisfied with that?  KEVIN CHAPPELL: I felt like I left a few out there.  I didn't birdie the par-5s on the front.  Missed a few short putts coming in down the stretch.  I still one, two somewhere else in the round and all in all you would have told me 67 to have a chance to win the golf tournament, I would take it.   Q.  Final group.  Concentrated leaderboard.  What do you do mentally for an exciting day tomorrow?  KEVIN CHAPPELL: Continue to do what I've done up to this point this week.  Dealing with the truth, have the facts.  You have 168, hit it 168.  Don't get ahead of yourself and just play my game.  I think that will be good enough.   Q.  Speaking of facts, what do you think you're doing well so far these past three days, maybe a concern you need to shore up tomorrow?  KEVIN CHAPPELL: I'm hitting the ball great.  Probably the best I've hit it all year, and I'm really excited about that. I putted it great the last month.  If I putted it better this week to this point it could be something really special going on.  See more putts go in and like my chances tomorrow  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT