QUICKEN LOANS NATIONAL
July 31, 2015
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Kevin, you have just struck the ball beautifully.  You lead the tournament in fairways that you've hit 25 of 28 fairways.  KEVIN CHAPPELL: Isn't that the goal?   Q.  Absolutely is but it's not always easily attained.  KEVIN CHAPPELL: I felt like I put in some good work really owning the fields that I have and they're working for me.  I would have said I've hit it great for 27 holes and back-9 this afternoon got a little out of my rhythm.  It's hard to get into the flow of the round a little bit.  Guys on the group are trying to make the cut and, you know, kind of affected my pace of play a little bit. Overall, very happy with my day and, you know, look forward to continuing to own those fields and the weekend.   Q.  It's not just the fairways, you're also pumping it into the greens.  You've hit 30 of 36.  KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah.  That's kind of my goal, if I can hit 14 of 18 greens, you know, it's a good day and so I've obviously had two good days.  Get a few more putts to drop it would be special.   Q.  Your putts are skewed a little because you've hit so many greens.  You had 30 putts in the 2nd Round.  KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah.  I've had a 3-putt in each of the first two rounds but I've made a few putts that I probably shouldn't have.  I've made some good par saves coming in.  Kind of gets momentum on my side.  Something to build off of going into the weekend.   Q.  Play well.  KEVIN CHAPPELL: Thanks.   Q.  Here with Kevin Chappell, followed up a 64 with a 68 today.  You saw this golf course, like many of the field here, for the very first time Tuesday.  You obviously have an immediate liking for the place.   What is so special about this Robert Trent Jones layout for you?  KEVIN CHAPPELL: It fit my eye immediately.  The holes are shaped beautifully.  Lot of bunkering shaping balls off of or shaping balls towards and hitting comes up short of it.  I tend to play good on classic style golf courses.  I tend to trend nicely on those.  Comfortable golf course that's real peaceful.  Just enjoy playing.   Q.  We're halfway through this tournament.  Anything changed for you now given your position as we move towards the weekend?  KEVIN CHAPPELL: No.  I mean just stay in the present and keep dealing with facts.  We played 36 holes, 36 holes to go.  Those are facts.  If I play to the best of my abilities, good chance I win  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT