WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 14, 2015
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   66 in the 1st round.   Pretty interesting finish you had.  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah.   It was great.   You know, kind of been uncharted territories for me lately getting off to a good start in the tournament.   I was very encouraged by that.   Look forward to playing three more solidly rounds of golf.  
   
 Q.   Obviously your putting was really good today.  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, I putted beautifully.   I was kind of bored on the putting green waiting for my caddy on Monday and grabbed a putter, ball started going in.   Used it throughout my practice through the week and it's continued over.  
   
 Q.   What is it going to take to play three more rounds like this?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Putt it like I did and hit it like I did and shoot the same score I shot.   I mean it's important to get the ball in the fairway out here.   Get the ball on right side of the hole.   Take advantage of your opportunities.   I did a good job of that today and look forward to doing that again tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Is that one of the clubs on the range?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Playing in the Monday Pro-Am.   I got here early and doing some practicing.   The Nike bag was there and so I just took a putter and was hitting putts and chatting with someone and the ball is going in.   "Oh, try this."   So I putted with it in the Pro-Am and made like a 30-footer on the first hole.   Like, "What was that?"   Just kind of putted better than average that day and kind of got better as the week went on.  
   
 Q.   Have you done stuff like that before, tinkering around?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I'm usually a guy that sticks with what -- rotate between two putters for two years now.   This is completely different than anything I've ever used.   Obviously completely different than any results I've been getting so I like that.  
   
 Q.   Going to have to give a name to that putter.   What kind of putter is it?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Went from like an Anser style putter to a mallet that's face-balanced.   Seemed to aim it better and hit it on line more.   Both positive.  
   
 Q.   It's been a bit of a mighty struggle this year the last 8 tournaments or so.   What do you think the issue has been for you, can you get out of that pretty quick?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I mean hopefully today is the start of a new chapter, that chapter will last the rest of the year and we can build some momentum from today and play the golf I know I can play.   It's tough out here.   It's easy to get down on yourself.   It's not easy to gain confidence, especially missing cuts and just got to trust what you're doing, the right things and keep doing it.  
I probably needed a little attitude adjustment.   Couldn't be happier off the golf course and couldn't have been more miserable on the golf course.   Just -- I don't know what the change was but I mean I just needed to enjoy it a little bit more and get back to being me and finding my identity on the golf course.  
   
 Q.   When you say "off the course", what made you happy off the course?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   My wife and I had our son, Wyatt, born a month ago.   He's happy and healthy.   Couldn't be more proud to be a dad and so that's been fantastic.   I want to play better so I can spend more time with them.   That's definitely a motivator.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT