CIMB CLASSIC
October 31, 2014
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Solid round, got yourself in contention on the weekend.   How does it feel?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, you know, I played nicely today.   Probably played better yesterday, honestly and just didn't make any putts.   Made some putts today and was able to get out of some trouble when I was‑‑ I was in it, but it feels good to be where I'm at and in position to have a chance to win a golf tournament.

Q.   Have you played this event?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Played last year.   I think it's a big advantage having seen the golf course before.

Q.   Yeah.   This golf course you gotta figure out before. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, you gotta figure it out, figure out your formula and then work it.

Q.   Jeff Overton said kind of the same thing, that after last year he kind of came with a plan.   Is that accurate?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Definitely, yeah.   You know, it's a course that you figure out where to attack, what pins to attack to, and then try and take advantage of those holes, and the situation, so the seventh hole, for instance, yesterday it was a very easy hole to the middle left pin because you have a slope behind it and today it becomes a very difficult hole.   You gotta figure out what to play off the tee and how to attack the hole.

Q.   There was some discussion coming off about a ruling was there?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah.   I assessed myself a stroke penalty on the 16th hole.   I picked my ball up before marking it, and then played the hole out, and then decided not to call a rules official until we were done.   I didn't think that that was going to be the best way for me to finish my round discussing a ruling until I got in.   So called the ruling, made sure I got the right ruling before I signed my score card.

Q.   So that penalty stands then. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, I shot 4‑under par 67‑‑ or 68, excuse me, not 5‑under. 

Q.   Just talk about that a little bit.   It's an interesting aspect for people who don't follow golf maybe in this community.   How players call penalties on themselves, and that's kind of how this game works, isn't it?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah.   It's on your honor.   You know, we're out there, it's one of the only sports where you're playing with your opponents, and they're not, you know, on that hole, I was on the right side of the fairway, Nicholas Fung was on the left side of one fairway and Nicholas Thompson was on the left side of the left fairway, so I mean there was 50 yards between three of us‑‑ or excuse me.   I'm thinking of the wrong hole.   I was thinking of 17, but I was still 50 yards from anyone else really, and you know, it's something that there wasn't a question what I was going to do. 

Q.   Any hopes going into the weekend?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Just keep playing some solid golf.   If you can hit the fairways out here, you can attack, so keep driving the ball well and make some putts and see what happens.

Q.   So it was in the fairway that took place?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   It was in the 16th fairway, correct. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT