MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 4, 2018
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Does this year feel different knowing that the success you had in your last year, does this feel different to step in here and preparing for this year's event?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, so I mean it being my third Masters, there's a lot more familiarity with the place. Having a little success last year is great coming into it, just gives mow a better understanding. Each year is different, unique with the weather, conditions would he play in and stuff. Even this year it's going to be different than last year in what we saw and the wind directs and stuff like that. So it's nice to just have kind of tallied up the rounds around here and have played the golf course in most of the conditions.  
   
 Q. You've been around this course several times now, what's the one shot that's most challenging for you and how do you pull it off or make sure that you can pull it off?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I think it's a series of shots, even those shots 12, 13, 15, where the wind can be changing direction there and really you're hitting it to a small area.  
   
 Q. The approaches?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah. Even 12, you got to have the wind in the right place when you pull the trigger to be able to get it right. So just being patient and understanding when to hit and when not to hit and wait for your time.  
   
 Q. What's the toughest pin for you on 12? Back right?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, probably that back right. Everyone says to hit it to the middle of the green there, that's the smallest part of the green, but obviously it gives you the biggest surface area to keep the ball on the surface. But you got to, if you got a good number, maybe it's time to go at that one.  
   
 Q. Now what's was the withdrawal from Match Play just a precautionary thing just because you didn't need to finish that match, you just wanted to make sure the back was okay?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, I mean I always hate withdrawing, but it wasn't going to do me any good to keep playing. My back was progressing in the wrong direction. And I was able to get an extra three hours off and an extra two days at home by not continuing to try to win that match and trying to get into the round of 16. It's helped because I feel good going into this week.  
   
 Q. Is it a tightness or what?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I have a history of a back that's not the best, so.  
   
 Q. How do you treat it? How do you make sure that it's good to go for this week?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL: I got a great team around me that helps me out and I rely on them to make sure that I'm ready to go and just try and give them as much feedback on my body as I can and they do the rest.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT