THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 5, 2014
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kevin, I thought you showed a lot of toughness today.   You held it together.   How would you describe your round today? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, it was pretty poor tee to green.   Had some great saves in the middle of the round to get if you can call it momentum going.   I hung in there late and tried to give myself birdie opportunities coming in, and I did.   I was able to make two (Indiscernible).   Didn't play my way out of the golf tournament, which it looked like I had an opportunity to.

Q.   No question you're still in it.   I thought the birdie late there on the par‑5 was crucial if you look at tomorrow?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, hit two good shots on 17.   I had a bad break, it wasn't in the bunker, but I was able to get it up‑and‑down, and kind of lipped out.

Q.   This is probably the worst ball striking day you've had this week.   So perhaps it's a good omen for tomorrow when you come back tomorrow?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I don't think I've had my best ball striking day yet.   Hopefully, my putter gets hot and should be fun.

Q.   Take us through your round today and where you're at right now? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   It was kind of up‑and‑down compared to the rest of the week.   Made three birdies, two bogeys.   I hit all of them off the tee, and was scrambling most of the day.   But still happy with the way I finished.   Looking forward to tomorrow.

Q.   How important was that finish to give yourself a shot at tomorrow? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, I think at one point I was six or seven shots off the lead.   So at the end of the day, I think I was three shots back or four shots back, and I've got a chance.   That's all you can ask for to play on Sunday in the PGA TOUR.

Q.   Were the conditions pretty good to give you an opportunity to have a good day? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, the course was getting firm.   The wind luckily stayed down, otherwise, I think it would have been a really difficult day.   They've done a great job with the golf course, and I look forward to playing it one more time tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT