THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 4, 2014
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Kevin, that's an outstanding second round.   24 putts on the day.   That pre‑putt routine that you've got going when you just kind of line it up with your right hand with your finger, that seems to be working pretty good.
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, that's AimPoint Express.   Learned it in New Orleans, and did some good work with short‑game coach last week, James Sieckmann, and actually got a new putter this week from Nike, which is kind of reunited with an old friend it feels like.   So all that has led to some good putts on the greens here.

Q.   Five birdies, no bogeys in the second round, what is it about this course that you just love?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   You know, the course has a great flow to it.   Just at peace out there.   All the running water and all the good scenery just puts me in a good spot.

Q.   Prospects for the weekend after two great rounds to start?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   You know, I guess it's totally dependent on the weather here.   If we get any rain, the course will soften up and you can get it, but if it stays windy and it gets firmer, the course is tough.   So I just take it one day at a time and see what the course will give you.

Q.   Congrats, Kevin.   Nice playing.
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Thank you. 

Q.   Kevin, nice playing out there today.   Just get some comments on the round.
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, it was a good day.   You know, the stats will say I didn't hit very many greens, but I felt like I was in the right spot a lot today, whether it was on the fringe and near the hole or missing greens when I was in trouble in the right spots.   So that was nice.
And you know, there's a lot of guesswork out there with the wind swirling, and my caddie and I did a good job of handling that.

Q.   Your putter seemed like it was working great out there.   How did you feel with it?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah.   You know, got kind of reunited with an old friend this week in that putter.   It's a Nike version of something that I used to use, and it was really nice of them to make it for me and I put it in play‑‑ got it Wednesday afternoon, put it in play, and it's been working, and hopefully it keeps working.

Q.   Had that chip‑in on 15.   You had to feel like this is kind of your day after having a shot like that.
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, you know, I got a pretty big gust on 15.   I miss‑hit the shot, but there's no way it should have been 40 yards to the hole.   But then to make it, it was nice, because it's something‑‑ that shot's something I've been working on and something that hasn't been a strength this year, so it was nice to see some hard work paying off. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT