CROWNE PLAZA INVITATIONAL AT COLONIAL
May 22, 2014
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell me, what was working for you? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I put the ball in play.   It's important out here to get the ball on the fairway.   The rough's just long enough to where you have to second guess your approach shots to the green.   So it's important to get the ball on the fairway so you can attack.   I was pretty just steady.   Had a kind of careless mistake on the front nine three‑putting from like 12 feet on 3.   But really kind of just settled things down and made some good birdies on 11 and 12. 
Unfortunate to miss a putt from close on 16, but overall it was a good day.

Q.   Was the wind a factor out there at all today? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, it's blowing hard enough that it made you think.   Probably not as hard as it did in the practice round, so I wouldn't be surprised to see some lower scores this afternoon just because guys have played practice rounds in the wind and it's blowing the same direction, so of course it's going to seem a little bit easier.

Q.   On 16, there's been a lot of bogeys on 16 this morning.   I don't know if you know that or not.   You said you missed a short putt, but everybody's having problems with that hole. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, I don't know what anyone else made on the hole, but I kind of misplayed the wind.   The wind is supposed to be down and off the right, and it just played straight down.   My ball flew pin‑high right to the right bunker and I hit a good bunker shot and missed the putt.   It gets a lot of traffic down at the bottom of the green because that's where everyone walks on to it.   Not saying it was the green's fault, but if you give yourself enough of those, you're going to miss a few of them.

Q.   There's been a ton of just par right around 1, 2, you thought maybe there would be some lower scores today, but 2‑under today right now is looking pretty good. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, I was happy with it.   The greens are softer than what we're used to out here, but I think that's one of those things that you remember from the latter rounds in year's past.   So they're going to continue to get firmer, but the wind is just not blowing as hard as it has been all week.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT