THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2013
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You came out of the gate so strong with 4‑under through your first four holes.   When you got out so quickly, what kind of mindset did that put you in for the remaining 14?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   By no means did it feel that quickly.   I made an 18‑footer for par on 10 and then got the ball rolling.   I tried to keep my foot on the gas.   This golf course is one of those that when you play conservative, it can hit you hard.   You're going to make some bogies, which I did, but I scrambled well on the backside and was able to make some birdies coming in.

Q.   It's interesting you say if you play conservative it can bite you.   It's usually the other way around on this golf course. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Let me rephrase that; not necessarily conservative, but if you get out of position, it can bite you.   I feel like I've played conservative with my tee balls.   I hit 3‑wood on a couple par‑5s to get in position and try to attack from there.

Q.   You're in a good spot heading into the weekend and surrounding you are some very powerful names, Tiger Woods, Lee Westwood, amongst others.   What kind of mentality do you have now? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I'm just trying to survive.   I'm not feeling too good.   The game's nice.   Got to hit more fairways and putting it like I am, I think I'll be all right.

Q.   When you say you're not feeling too good, are you talking about physically? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, just had congestion issues all week, and sore throat, runny nose, and you know, just trying to make it.

Q.   After that round do you feel a little better? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   It helps.   Hopefully it will help more.

Q.   You have to be very observant to play the way you've been playing out there.   Good start so far. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Thanks, yeah, it's been good.   Really rolling the ball nicely and taking advantage of some good iron play.

Q.   You haven't had a great success in the past.   But when you look at the leaderboard, it's a leaderboard of guys that haven't had great success here in the past for whatever reason.   Is there any reason you guys are this year?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I think you just have to create your blueprint for this golf course.   There are a lot of different ways to play it, and I decided to make sure that I'm in play on the holes that are scoring.   I hit 3‑wood off two, 3‑wood off 9, just to make sure the ball is in play and get it somewhere around the green.   Trust my wedge game and my putter, see how we score.

Q.   That's something you've had to mature into.   When you first came out on the Web.com, you were a bomber.   How much fun is that transition for you and showing some restraint and seeing the fruits of it? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   It's great.   You almost feel like you deserve it.   I got laid up on 9 and wanted to go at the green.   It was like I hit a good wedge shot and did the right thing. 
It's come with some hard work.   I've had to get my wedge game good, so I believed in that game plan and did some hard work with my team and it's really paid off.

Q.   How are you feeling? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Not too good.   Really congested and sore throat, but some food and some rest it will heal all.

Q.   You have a late tee time tomorrow no matter what happens this afternoon, and plenty of time to get some rest. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Perfect, thanks.

Q.   You now have the clubhouse lead 6‑under 66, tied the lead at 9‑under par.   You've been here before, but this is by far your best round.   Tell us what's working so well for you? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I think I just created my blueprint for the golf course.   Play conservatively, get the ball in play, and then attack once I'm in position.   Seems like all the bogeys I've made are when I'm in the rough or missed some fairways.   So that's been the key for me, get the ball in play.

Q.   That stretch you had there on 11, 12, 13, how much confidence does that give you at the beginning of the round? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, it was nice.   I made a big par save on 10, and eagle on 11, and hit it close on 12 and 13.   Just got some momentum going, and tried to keep reminding myself to keep my foot on the gas and keep moving forward.

Q.   That can be a little hard to do when you've taken some over‑the‑counter legal drugs, because you're not feeling well right now.   You said you're a little loopy out there.   They always say beware the sick golfer, right? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, just having that trying to survive mentality throughout.   It may help my rhythm.   I tend to swing a little hard at times, so just stayed within myself and it worked out all right. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT