CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
November 11, 2012
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nice playing.   You got close.   You're about seven thousand ahead of 126.   Did you have any idea coming down 18 or anything?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Well, I knew it was close as soon as Billy showed up on 16.   He hadn't been around all day.   And it was pretty easy for me out there.   Made one birdie and a bogey through 12 holes and missed a few opportunities and I'm like ‑‑ and I saw Tim Herron's name on the board and I knew Charlie was going to move ahead of me and I knew there was only room for one other guy.   I knew Tim was making a move.   Russell Knox played good early.   So I had no idea.  
I guess not knowing is the hardest part out there.   At least when you're trying to win a golf tournament you know what you gotta do.   You know where you stand and you can just hit each shot to the best of your ability where it might be some opportunities out there that you maybe don't want to try because a bogey cost you more than a birdie gets you.   
So once Billy showed up, I knew that it was close and then I hit it in the hazard on 17, and he gave ‑‑ he asked my caddie if we wanted to know.   He said yeah.   And he said ‑‑ before I hit my second shot he said, you're good.   And so it took some pressure off, but again, I still didn't know how he could tell me I was good.   So I make a great bogey there, and made probably the two freest swings I've made all week on 18, thinking I was good.   And you know, run that putt four feet by on 18.   But it was just get the thing over with.   Didn't want to have to think about it.  
   
 Q.   Can you take us through 17?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I'd driven it good all day.   Been drawing the ball nicely and should have been really an easy tee shot.   I just got a little busy with what shot I was going to play.   The wind was blowing off the left.   And just blocked it and I guess it hit a pin off the path and went in the hazard.   And I dropped, took my two club lengths, dropped.   My caddie just missed the ball.   Went in the hazard.   And I went back to the bag and I'm going to drop another ball.   And I'm like, hold on, do I have to drop the ball that's in the hazard again or can I put a new ball essentially in play?   So then we called a rules official over.   And while the rules official was coming Michael was like, screw it, I'll just get the ball out of the hazard.   So he got the ball out of the hazard, I dropped it, the ball was in play when the rules official got there.   And then he didn't understand what ‑‑ it took me five minutes to explain to him what happened.   
   
 Q.   Who was the rules official?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I don't know.   Finally I got ‑‑ once we explained it to him, the ball was in play.   Just had to make sure I kept it left of the green and figure it out from there.  
   
 Q.   How deep in the hazard was it, just out of curiosity?   Did he have to wade in?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   No, no.   He just went down to where he was almost in the water and then he could grab it.  
   
 Q.   What did you hit on 18?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I hit driver wedge.  
   
 Q.   And did you think anything on that four‑putt or no?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I kind of figured that of all people, Billy Andrade didn't know that I was good.   So I wanted to make the putt.   When I made it, it was like all I can do.   Play over the hole best I could and go turn in my score card and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   It's a situation like this sounds like you were trying to do the math?  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, but it's math that I can't do, you know?   I didn't know where KEVIN CHAPPELL was on the Money List.   I didn't know where Russell Knox was on the Money List.   So you're in a situation between a rock and a hard spot.   Do I need to make more pars or do I need to make birdies and move up the leaderboard?   Obviously you want to play the best you can, but like I said earlier there is some point in a situation where bogey hurts you more than a birdie helps you.   When my bogeys turn from winning a golf tournament to having a job next year.  
   
 Q.   Can you equate being where you are on the Money List just making the cut had to be a little bit of a relief.   I mean to play like that when you had to.  
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah.   I played really nicely all week.   I didn't make any putts on the weekend and that was probably the difference.   
But yeah, knowing that I need to play well, knowing that I first need to make the cut and get myself in position to have a chance, I think it would be terrible to be sitting in front of my computer right now and watching this.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT