U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2012
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about your round today at 2‑under par? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Pretty, I guess as easy as I could have made it.   I didn't drive it great but got pretty lucky and managed those shots out of the rough pretty good. 
I had four or five, 5 to 12 footers that I had to make, which was pretty easy compared to the other days I've had.

Q.   How tough is the course playing today?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Well, the wind is not blowing as hard as it has.   What's out there is pretty nonexistent and kind of changes directions hole to hole.   But it's as fast as it's been, or as fast as I've played it.   Playing yesterday morning I'm sure was a little bit of an advantage, but it's all the golf course I want to play, that's for sure. 

Q.   Your third round leaders are giving strokes back.   This is a pretty close contest right now and you're right in the middle of it.   How does that feel?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   It feels good.   I was the same position last year, and I played well and just would love to build off that. 

Q.   How much can you draw upon that experience?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Different golf tournament.   Last year we were trying to make birdies in the U.S. Open, and here you're trying to just survive.   If I can go out tomorrow and play a round of golf like I did today, we'll see what happens. 

Q.   You try to step up your aggression on the course, or do you just try to manage it?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I think manage it is the right way to put it.   There's definitely some holes you think you can score on.   15 to 109 yards today, pretty hard for a professional golfer not to think let's make birdie on a 109‑yard hole. I made an 8‑footer for par from off the green, so it shows you that the distance is kind of irrelevant. 

Q.   You had an amazing round today with just two birdies and no bogeys.   I wonder how many people will say that they had no bogeys in this round today.   Congratulations on that.   Tell me a bit about your two birdies. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Hit two great shots into 2.   Had about 10 feet above the hole and was able to roll it in and then on 11   I hit it in the right rough and just trying to chase it up the front left part of the green and had it dead pin high about 20 feet left of the hole and it broke left‑to‑right maybe a cup and a half and knocked it in, and then I hit some good opportunities coming in.   Hit it to six or eight feet on the last, and it's just a tough putt, hard to get it started on line.

Q.   Last year was basically a raise for second, this year there's a challenge for first.   Talk about the mindset of that transition from one year to the next and how it affects your thinking? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Won't really affect my thinking.   All can I do is control myself and try and stay in my routine and hit every shot to the best of my ability.   My thought process this week has never been on anything but trying to win the golf tournament and trying to make the best decisions out there that are going to allow me to do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT