MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice round today.   How did you feel? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I guess it was a roller coaster of nerves.   Little nervous starting the day, but relieved getting the first tee shot out of the way and kind of easing my way into the round.   And I definitely made some rookie mistakes out there.

Q.   Could you share a few of those?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I hit it over the green on the 4th hole to the back pin.   Not a good spot. 
3‑putted on 6 going up the tier. 
And then bogey on 10 and 11, kind of put me in a tough spot.   I was able to play pretty freely through 12 through 14. 

Q.   I don't have what you did on those holes.   Can you share?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Bogeyed 10 and 11 and then made about a 30‑footer on 12 for a birdie.   Made about a 30‑footer for eagle on 13, made about a 30‑footer for birdie on 15.   Kind of nice magical hour, and then gave one back on 16, got a little greedy, hit it in the back bunker there. 
But overall, happy with the day. 

Q.   If there is one highlight or feeling you had coming in to today are you ‑‑ are you pleased where you are at? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Absolutely.   I think playing your first round at Augusta, it's really easy to be overwhelmed and play well at a golf tournament.   I didn't do that.   So that's a good feeling and I know there is still a lot of work to do, but I think you have got to pick your spots out here.   If I can do a better job at that, I can eliminate some of those bogeys and keep the birdies coming.

Q.   (Inaudible) mud balls? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   They affect you, but I think they affect your mind more than anything.   If you can just ignore the fact that there is mud on your ball, some of the time it will work out for you. 

Q.   What are your thoughts now?   What will you do this afternoon?   Will you hit more?   Will you rest?   What your thoughts going into tomorrow? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I have got to take a drug test right now.   Then depending on what this weather does, I would like to do a little bit of practice and get a work out in and get out of here.

Q.   You practiced a little bit with Keegan and Phil, is that right? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I did.   I did.

Q.   So you are keeping an eye on how they are doing? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Keegan did well today.   Yeah, they are world class players and both have done things that I look to do.   Just going around with Phil was a great education and great experience. 

Q.   How did you do on 1? 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I made 4.   Driver, 7 iron in the middle of the green.

Q.   That claimed a lot of victims today. 
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Did it? 

Q.   There were nerves you said for the first time.   Were they really there a lot?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Once I got into the round, I was got.   For the first hole they were definitely there.   I hit it down the middle, hit it in the middle of the green.   I could tap my ball in after the first putt.   Able to relax and the wait on the second tee helped, kind of get back to, I guess, normal golf.

Q.   Did you hit the drive pretty good on 1?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   I had 175 yards to the hole.

Q.   It's a little unusual to have 4 iron in.   It's a long‑ish par 4?
KEVIN CHAPPELL:   Yeah, to start the day, it was a good golf ball. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT