CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 21, 2011
Kevin Chappell
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Rough bogey there at the end, but otherwise pretty good day.   
 KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, drove it great today. Hit some really good iron shots, even the one on 18. So great. Just the wind kind of died down and hit it over the green.   
 But great day. Nice to get some momentum. Even though it's the last event of the year, it will be great to go in the off-season feeling good about my game.  
  
  Q. Did you notice a lot of difference in the course today drying out a little?  
 KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, it did dry out, but it dried out to the point you had mud on your ball. Trying to manage some mud balls all day, where yesterday didn't have any.   
 So the course has been in great shape, especially for the weather they've had.  
  
  Q. You mentioned the last one of the season. You've got to have something going on before Sony next year.   
 KEVIN CHAPPELL: Yeah, I'll play the Callaway Invitational and a few other local things, pro-am, stuff like that. No, this is last competitive, you know, where you're grinding it out for a little while.  
  
  Q. You looking forward to the break or would you rather stay competitive?  
 KEVIN CHAPPELL: No, I look forward to it. It's been a good year, but it's been a little long. I feel like I played a lot golf in the middle of the year, which was great, very lucrative, and helped me move forward next year.   
 But kind of burnt myself out a little bit. Haven't played too much late in the year because of not playing well in the playoffs. And then only played three out of the four Fall Series events.   
 You know, just want to feel hungry again, and playing well helps you feel hungry.  
  
  Q. What did you expect over on the Mag tomorrow for scoring?  
 KEVIN CHAPPELL: I think, you know, depending on the wind. Yesterday I think it played about as tough as it can play. Wind blew upwards of 20 miles an hour. Played pretty soft. I know it'll firm up. If the wind stays down, should be fairly scorable.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT