U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Megan Buck
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The match, felt like you weren't on your A Game.  
MEGAN BUCK: Yeah, I was a little sloppy to start. I had been putting well all week and was just a little tight over a lot of putts that usually would make or get close, so yeah, a little bit sloppy so I think that's when I got behind.   
So being 2-down making the turn, which I still wasn't concerned at that point because I like the back nine and can play well, so I did play better on the back nine, but yeah, she played great and just didn't make any mistakes.   
Like I said, if she missed the green, you know, I was feeling like I may get a hole back; she'd hit a great chip shot, and so yeah, it was just tough to get back, I think just sloppy play that put me in the hole early, it was too late to fight back because she didn't make too many mistakes.   
 Q.  You thought going to the back nine there was going to be an opening here and there -- maybe got one hole back?  
MEGAN BUCK: Yeah, right. She was so steady, you had to make birdies to win holes and I wasn't hitting it close enough to do that.   
 Q.  Was speed an issue with you for putting?  
MEGAN BUCK: Yeah, I just left a lot short. Like I was kind of just tentative over putts. Usually I'm very confident and feeling like I can make anything and today was just a little tentative and came up short on a lot.   
 Q.  How about obviously this is a place you're really familiar with; the week in general, you got to the second-to-last day, which in your second championship, you must be feeling different about, the week as a whole.  
MEGAN BUCK: It's been a great week. I was just saying that just the qualifier a couple months ago was very stressful and tough to make it here. So I was just really excited to make it here.   
Yeah, I played great over the weekend to come into match play. Yeah, to win a few matches was great. And the week as a whole to have friends and family up here, seeing my college coach and all that, it's been awesome. So of course it's frustrating to lose, especially when I feel like I didn't play my best in the last match but overall, it's great and can't be upset about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT