KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2017
Jim Estes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I like your opening line.  
JIM ESTES: Not bad for a broken down old pro who doesn't practice?  Yeah, I spend more time working with other people's games than my own.  But it's just a privilege and an honor to gets out here and play well in front of people that I know well, students, wounded veterans, but also some of my high school kids came out and watched that I coach and some of my students.   
So it's easy for me to critique others, but then when you have to go out and do it yourself, you want TO make them proud.   
 Q.  When is the last solid time of practice you've had before this week?  
JIM ESTES: I don't know.  I just haven't had any.  I hit a bucket of balls a couple of days ago before I started and we hit balls on the range, demonstrate a couple shots every other day or so, but no, I haven't practiced at all.   
I had a back problem.  I had a herniated disk and I've had sciatic nerve, which means the nerve that goes down your leg is inflamed and so it's been hard for me to do any kind of practice.  I've been in shape though, I've been going to work out on a regular basis two times a week and so, fortunately, I didn't fatigue.  It's good to be with the Special Operations guys that tell me to get out there and work on my game and push me to stay in shape, because I see how fit these guys are, so.   
 Q.  Yeah, they're are.  We saw you do all those pushups in the wintertime for the promotions, and SMGA is going well, how poignant is it for you to play well on Memorial Day weekend?  
JIM ESTES: Oh, I think it couldn't be, I couldn't be more happy to, for not only the service members that come out and honor me, I mean when they come out and shake my hand and say, thank you for doing what you're doing.  It means a lot.  I just had a walking scorer today, 36 years in the army, Special Operations, he's like, I wanted to be with you today and I really appreciate it.  So those kind of things you can't replace.  Money can't replace it, my personal game, how well I play, all of it is in perspective.  It's just a special weekend really.   
 Q.  You got it to 3-under and were in good shape and you had to be feeling that this is pretty good groove to be in.  
JIM ESTES: I was nervous, I'll be honest with you.  I started getting adrenaline.  I hit my shot on 16 and it almost flew in the hole and I made this 20-footer.  And then 17 I had an, it was on a pesky little lie and I 2-putted.  But then 18 I was nervous because I hooked it in the water on the first day, and I had to take another shot from the tee.  And so I hit it down the middle and I thought, okay, great, I'm going to birdie this hole.  And then I hit a poor pitch and fooled me and I made 6.  But hey, all in all I can't ask for a better week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT