BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 7, 2009
Freddy Head
Alain Wertheimer
Gerard Wertheimer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ERIC WING: . The Brothers Werthheimer on either side of trainer Freddy Head. On the left, Gerard Werthheimer, in the middle, Freddy Head, the trainer, and Alain Werthheimer on our right. Congratulations, gentlemen. You set a mark today that will probably never be equaled. First man to win back-to-back Breeders' Cup Miles as a jockey. First man to train back-to-back Breeders' Cup Miles. Congratulations, Freddy. Was there any difference at all in the campaign the way Goldikova came up to the race this year compared to last year?   
 FREDDY HEAD: No, no, the only difference was the last run where she was a bit we thought it was a sure thing, and she didn't run up to her best. But she had excuses that day. I knew that.   
 So if you take away that race, it's been a very good year for her. And I knew she was in very good condition.   
 But for me, first I want to say that it's something I don't have the words to say what I feel because having ridden a horse like her is being, and now train a horse like her, it's something you can't dream of.   
 ERIC WING: Gerard and Alain, this is your fourth Breeders' Cup winner, the second by Goldikova, before that Half Bridled and Kotashaan. She's thrilled us two years in a row. She's 4 years of age. Might we see her come back, not necessarily to the Breeders' Cup, that would be wonderful. But might we see her race again at 5, or does that still have to be decided?   
 GERARD WERTHEIMER: We don't know yet.   
 ERIC WING: Does today's win make the decision more difficult?   
 GERARD WERTHEIMER: No.  
 ALAIN WERTHEIMER: No.   
 ERIC WING: It doesn't make it anymore difficult?   
 ALAIN WERTHEIMER: It makes it easier.  
 ERIC WING: Okay.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the first time Lasix used? The decision and the impact of it, if any?   
 FREDDY HEAD: No, I don't think it had any impact. But I must say that every horse in the race had Lasix. I think it would have been silly to come away from such a long, long distance and not to run on equal terms with the others.   
 So it's not a question of her being better with Lasix or not. But I just -- it was just paying respect to her to give her every tool to try and win a race like that.   
  
  Q. Last year Goldikova unleashed an explosive turn of foot, whereas this year it was more of a sustained effort. Did you see it that way? And why do you think the difference?   
 FREDDY HEAD: It was completely different race. She showed us today that she could come from a long way. We have never been riding her that way. But you see last time at Longchamp we got beat because we were drawn 14 out of 14. So today being drawn 11, we didn't have a choice. I wanted my jockey to wait. He couldn't get a cover not being too far.   
 So I wasn't too concerned in the race, but it's always difficult to give distance away.   
 ERIC WING: Did Olivier say anything to you after the race about the journey?   
 FREDDY HEAD: Yeah, he said he thought he had a good run, and he was almost sure of the win all the way. When he came into the turn he knew he had won the race. But from the stands, that's not what I thought (laughing).   
  
  Q. Getting to the top is one thing, but staying there is another. How difficult was it for you this time around this whole season knowing you're trying to keep her up at that level?   
 FREDDY HEAD: Well, the amazing thing is a horse like her, she's very easy to train. I mean, she does everything herself. And coming here and winning is not more difficult than any race we run in. She's always gives her best. She has no problem. Never puts her foot wrong. She just keeps on galloping and she's happy wherever she is. So it is quite special. She's a freak, I think, really.   
  
  Q. When you rode Miesque, you had to exert a lot of physical effort to get her home. What is physical about watching Goldikova?   
 FREDDY HEAD: I get much more nervous adjust watching than riding. I think I was much more nervous before the race than when I used to ride Miesque.   
  
  Q. Coming from behind, was that a conscious decision today? And the stretch out from 7 furlongs last time to a mile today, was that a factor?   
 FREDDY HEAD: No, she showed last time that -- she showed all the speed last time. I didn't think she could run so fast. And she wasn't ready for a race like she'd done last time. It was a prep race, so she wasn't maybe 100% fit.   
 So I think she uses herself too much. So today it wasn't a question of being last or anywhere, it was just we had to cover her up and try to relax her. Because last time she got a little bit tense, and she was a wee bit keen in the race, and she forgot to breathe.   
 So it's not a question of being last. It's just a question of being in good position, and where she can be in comfort and just run without any stress.   
 ERIC WING: We have Olivier Peslier here.   
 Congratulations on a remarkable encore by Goldikova. And I know a lot of Americans hope you make the decision to show her off again in 2010. Congratulations.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT