CIMB CLASSIC
October 31, 2014
Nicholas Fung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Really good thing for you today, finishing before the weather delay.   
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah, you know, I was hitting so good today, but my putting, so bad.   And I got two bogeys on the front nine, all because of my putting, and I tried to recover on the back nine, and I shoot 1‑under on the back nine.   
   
 Q.   What's happening on the greens?  
NICHOLAS FUNG:   I just like solved the whole mystery, so I tried to relax myself, go back to basics on the back nine.   I putted well on the back nine.   
   
 Q.   Did you learn anything playing with the guys?  
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah, of course.   Different they hit much longer than me.   What I need to improve is like the way, how they putt.   This is my weakness.   If I can putt it well like that, I can play on the PGA TOUR.  
   
 Q.   So what are you going to take from today into tomorrow?  
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Hopefully relax.   I don't want to do any putting.   Just go back and relax.   Tomorrow come back and just go and putt my best, do my best putting.  
   
 Q.   Is too much preparation a bad thing or that's why you don't want to do your putting?  
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yes, because sometimes if you do more practice, it really confuses you, so I just want to go back, take a rest, sleep, forget everything.   
   
 Q.   You didn't have a good start the past few weeks.   How are you going to approach tomorrow, because yesterday you said you were going to work on (indiscernible).   
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah, of course.   Tomorrow I'm planning to actually play (indiscernible) the first two days, so what I need to do is improve my putting.   Yeah, that's it.   Because I'm hitting so great.   
   
 Q.   When you say go back to the basics of putting, what does that consist of?  
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Just like, you know, go back to like beginner putting, go back like when I start, learn how to putt, just my basic.   Because I went for a few putter, went for the end point like, you know, so just I mean help me for this week, so what I need is the best for me, just go back to the basics.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT