CIMB CLASSIC
October 30, 2014
Nicholas Fung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You had a shaky Front 9? 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah, you know, I started very struggle, you know.   I hit it so bad, like I par putt on the first two holes, and I stepped hook on the 13th hole and very good save bogey from a long bogey putt there.   And after that I hit a couple of bad shots on 16, 16.   I can't even remember what I shot.   And I got a good comeback on the first and second hole. 
Before the suspend of play.   I was like, I want to finish it as soon as possible because I playing so well, because I still had a fifth hole, par‑5.   It's a birdie hole for me usually.   So after I go back, everything, to read on one, so managed to get par all the way, yeah. 
So overall I'm still happy with my game.   Hopefully tomorrow will go better. 

Q.   So the rain suspension stopped the (indiscernible)?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah.

Q.   What did you do during your rain suspension?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Sleep. 

Q.   After that Front 9 and then you recovered on the Back 9, what sparked the recovery from you?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   My iron shot, because I struggle my iron shot on the first nine.   I stuffed a few shots, and my caddy just asked me to calm down, don't rush.   So I just listened to him. 
Everything worked good for the Back 9.

Q.   Any reason for the bad start do you think this morning?   Were you just nervous, excited?   What is that?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   I think it's too overconfident. 

Q.   Where were you giving yourself high expectations coming to the round?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Well, actually I didn't give myself expectation here, but I know I can do better on this golf course because my putting these few days I'm putting good.   That's why I say I got good confidence this week.

Q.   Good thing about the event is there is no cut.   So how would you ready your spirits up and go for the next three days?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah, it's a good event, so of course, it's good for our Asian boys and for our Malaysian boys.   It's good to come down and watch so many great players playing here. 
Of course, I'm still learning, keep always learning.   Keep learning.   That's my main point, while playing. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT