CIMB CLASSIC
October 28, 2014
Nicholas Fung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Please welcome Nicholas Fung to the media center.   Nicholas qualified for the CIMB from his Official World Golf Ranking. 
Your second time playing the CIMB Classic.   How are you feeling and what are your thoughts coming into this week? 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah, you know, I'm so happy, this is my second time of playing the CIMB, and of course I prepare a lot before I come here.   I've got a lot of experience of playing this golf course, so I think this is much better.   I think I can perform well this year. 
THE MODERATOR:   How have you been preparing coming into this week? 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Like I say, I try to gain some distance, because the traps here, always trapping me here, so I try to gain five to ten yards since last year.   So I can see I'm hitting longer these first two days during my practice rounds so I feel it's slightly easier for me to play on this golf course. 

Q.   What's the biggest lesson you feel you've learned from being part of the EurAsia Cup? 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah, I learned how to be patient on the golf course, when I hit a bad shot, so try to not be too angry when I hit a bad shot, try to calm down and try to forget about the bad shot.   Of course, looking forward to the next hole, and think of playing a great shot. 

Q.   Did you again fit from playing with people that you played with?   In other words, you know longer feel in awe of these guys.   You're actually one of them and as good as them. 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Not scared of, because it's good to play with a good player so that I can learn and see them, how they play.   This is a good experience for me to learn from them. 

Q.   This is the second time you're playing here in this event, and now you have very, very good players here playing.   So do you think it's going to intimidate you, or do you think that like you said, you're not scared of them? 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah, it's good to see a lot of players coming down to Malaysia and good for our Malaysian pros and our local boys, our area fans here come down to support and come down to watch the CIMB.   Of course I feel good so that I can‑‑ I mean, I give myself encouragement to play with them, yeah.   So I've got no pressure, so it's very good. 

Q.   What goal do you make for yourself in this event?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   My goal, playing good golf, that's my goal.   Just to go out, play some good golf, yeah.   I never think about winning, because if you play good golf, winning just comes to you.   That's what I want. 
THE MODERATOR:   Have you set yourself any goals towards the end of the Asian Tour season? 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yes, of course, because the last, I think we have six more events coming down, and two of my favorite golf course, I finish good last year.   So yeah, it's a good chance for me to finish well on the Asian Tour. 
I tried to win one.   I tried to win, yeah.   I tried my best. 

Q.   Is the big prize money enough to motivate you in this tournament? 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   I do not understand this (laughing).   Of course, everyone loves money, so (laughter) that's why I say, need to perform well to earn great money, yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   You have not enjoyed the best of results this year on the Asian Tour.   Is that down to not being patient enough on the golf course? 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   But so fun playing consistency, not so bad, actually, compared to last year because last year I've been down.   But this year, playing average golf, I know I didn't play, like finish Top‑5, Top‑10, because of my putting, because I'm doing some putting changing.   That's why maybe sometimes playing‑‑ sometimes I putt good and sometimes I putt bad. 

Q.   You did not play in The Open qualifying round this year, the British Open. 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   No. 

Q.   Is there a reason why you didn't do it?   Would you in the want to try to at least qualify for the British Open?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah, I wanted to play the Open, but this year I'm not ready yet.   During that period, I think my golf is a bit down, so I've got no confidence to play.   So I tried to get ready for next year. 

Q.   So what's your confidence level at this point? 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   How do I say?   Definitely much, much better than last year, because I played great golf now. 

Q.   Playing with the Asian top guys‑‑
NICHOLAS FUNG:   My uncle, my friend is coming down to watch me this week, yeah.   So it's good for me, it's a good encouragement, yeah.

Q.   Do you have any pressure with your family or friends here? 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   No, I have no pressure of this thing. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you so much, Nicholas, and good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT