CIMB CLASSIC
October 24, 2013
Nicholas Fung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nicholas, will you just give us a run through on your round today?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   I start slow, and I birdied the two par‑5s, the third hole and the fifth hole. 
I bogeyed the 8th hole, so I got a good shot, but I misjudged it, so the ball went in the bunker, two‑putt and bogey.   So I putted last hole.   First nine 35.   Really happy with that.
Back nine I shot a three hole.   My putting again come back so bad.   Missed some short putt.   Even the 10 hole I have a three‑putt.   11 hole missed a short putt.   Hole number 12 I miss a birdie putt, like 5‑footer, and 13 I missed less than two‑foot putt.
Then I parred all the way to the last hole.   Yeah, so I'm still happy with my game, you know.   But hitting good.   Just my putting, I need to do more practice on my putting.

Q.   Can you pinpoint what's wrong with your putting?   Have you noticed anything wrong?   Maybe it's the stroke?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   I think it's not stroke.   I think my aiming.   Yeah.   Especially, when left to right.   Putting so bad when left‑to‑right putt. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Still good.   The corners are so good.   On the front nine they're getting a bit faster, better on the back nine. 

Q.   After going 2‑under confidence wasn't really high, what did you tell yourself?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   You know, I saw my name on the scoreboard after 8 hole, so I just said it's not bad.   No. 10 at the moment.   So I say just play my game, don't put too much pressure on myself, but I bogeyed 8 hole. 

Q.   So was the bogey a turning point of today's?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   On the front nine the greens a bit faster compared to the back nine, so yeah. 

Q.   Did you have a score that you wanted to hit today on the first day just to give you a good shot?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   No, I didn't.   I just go to play, try to finish as low as I can.   This is not an easy golf course.

Q.   But you shoot on the only holes you can go low here.   Is that the confidence, the mindset that you bring into the tee box tomorrow?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah.   Of course tomorrow I will start back nine, so hopefully I will play good on the back nine first so that more easy on the front nine.   First nine is the scoring nine. 

Q.   Most of your greens were you having short putts a lot or did you have a number of long or medium putts?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Medium to short.   I didn't have much long putt.   All makeable putt.   The last hole like only 10 foot. 

Q.   You changed several putters before deciding on the current one.   How do you feel about it?   Still adjusting to it?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Still adjusting to it, but so far I feel the putter I'm using, compared to the last one I had, this one is much better.

Q.   Do you usually change putters heading into big event like this?
NICHOLAS FUNG:   No.   I use it, this is my fourth tournament.   I bring it to Taiwan.   I bring to another tournament where I finished second.   So I think not bad.   So yeah.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT