CIMB CLASSIC
October 23, 2013
Nicholas Fung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Nicholas, this is your first time playing the CIMB Classic.   Talk about your thoughts playing in this event.   
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Yeah, I'm happy to play with all the PGA pros here, and of course I'm looking forward to playing well here, and of course you want to win, but I don't want to put so much pressure on myself, just want to have fun and hopefully I will finish as low as I can.   
THE MODERATOR:   Can you talk a bit about this golf course?   Does it suit your game?   
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Well, I've played here many times, so I missed like three times here.   I mean, it's a bit hard for me because all the bunker traps every time is trapping me.   But I think this time I will definitely play better than previously here.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Well, actually I just go out and play and try to finish as low as I can, yeah.   
   
 Q.   A lot of top‑ranked players are here.   Talk about that.   
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Of course hopefully I can win this one, and I get two‑year exemption to play PGA TOUR.   Also if I can win, also first Malaysian to play on PGA TOUR, yeah.   So that's my target.   
   
 Q.   You know playing with a few PGA TOUR champions, former No.1s.   What does it mean to you as a player to be playing in this event?  
NICHOLAS FUNG:   It means a lot to me so I can see how the players so I can learn from them.   Of course I wish to play with Bubba Watson and Rickie Fowler.   I want to see how he bogeys more, how long can pass me, yeah.   
   
 Q.   It's been a very good season for you this year.   You've won a couple of local events, you won on the ADT Tour, as well.   What been the key for you so far this year?  
NICHOLAS FUNG:   My key for this year, just keep practicing.   I tried to practice more on my short game because my putting was not so good at the moment, yeah, so I tried to change putters, tried to find the best putter for me, but now I think I've got the best putter for me here.  
   
 Q.   How many putters have you changed so far?  
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Too many.   
   
 Q.   Do you have a rough number in mind how many putters you've changed this season?   
NICHOLAS FUNG:   Six, seven, around that.   Maybe more than that.   
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
NICHOLAS FUNG:   My motivation?   Just like my father, all of my friends coming down from Sabah come and support me, and I mean, this means a lot to me, you know, because they come all the way from Sabah to come and support me, and of course they want me to play in front of the majors winner in the final round.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT