NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 14, 2020
Devonte' Graham
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's it mean to you to be here playing in your first All-Star weekend?
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: Very excited. It means a lot. I'm glad to be here with my teammates too, Miles and PJ. We put in a lot of hard work. Just soaking it all in really.
Q. As a second-round draft pick, what does it say for your work ethic that it got you here?
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: Just having a chip, that chip on your shoulder for going against the people who were drafted before you and the teams who overlooked you. It just puts that fire into you and makes you work harder. Then I got guys around me who love to work too. So that makes it a lot easier.
Q. It's Valentine's Day.
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: That's true.
Q. (No microphone).
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: Man, just enjoying people around you, cherish them, tell them you love them because you never know. Tomorrow's not promised. Make sure you spread that love and that positivity.
Q. And what would you give your Valentine?
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: Flowers, chocolate, candy, balloons. But I don't have a Valentine.
Q. What is Kobe Bryant's legacy with basketball sneakers?
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: Basketball sneakers? He's got one of the best shoes. I think him, MJ, guys like that. The shoes are top-notch. You grow up wearing them, loving them. Then you see how everybody had the Kobes when he passed away. So it's definitely a legendary shoe.
Q. What was that like to see the players across the league wearing the Kobes after his passing?
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: It's just to honor him, a special moment just to show your condolences. I think it was a huge movement.
Q. Do you have an all-time favorite pair of Kobes?
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: I do not. I grew up on Adidas. I didn't really wear Kobes like that. But I feel like all of them are fire really.
Q. (No microphone).
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: I'm taking everything. The stickers, the whatever it is that they had that says NBA All-Star on it. Just for me, for my family, for everybody who couldn't come. I'm definitely going to take everything, pictures of everything.
Q. There's a lot of talk about the NBA one-on-one. Who would you want to play?
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: Who would I want to play against? I would say in the Rising Stars or just period?
Q. Period.
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: I would say Damian, D. Lillard.
Q. Why?
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: I just love his game. I would love to play him one-on-one.
Q. And who do you think is winning the Rookie of the Year race?
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: Definitely Ja. Ja got it so far. But I don't know, Zion's coming though.
Q. On Tony Parker:
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: I was just with Tony at his house when we played in San Antonio. Just a great guy, great to be around. You learn a lot from him just by watching him, how he took care of his body, his work ethic, his attention to detail, all of the above. So just some great advice, great to be around.
Q. And what's the best advice that he gave to you?
DEVONTE' GRAHAM: I think it's just the little things, like looking at the scouting report, attention to detail before the games, trying to figure out how teams are guarding you and ways and plays that you could call to get guys open and get guys going and get yourself going.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT