MOUNTAIN WEST WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 2, 2020
Chris Gobrecht
Kaelin Immel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Boise State - 73, Air Force - 50   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Air Force. Coach, general thoughts on tonight's game?   
COACH GOBRECHT: Well, I thought Boise State played really, really well. It's the best I've seen them play in a long time. And I think when you've got a kid that shoots 20-something percent from 3 and she's burying 3s right and left, you know you're in for a long time.   
But at the same time they should have -- that's a senior-dominated team. That entire team is seniors playing a team that is predominantly sophomores and freshmen.   
So I think they showed up and played like seniors, and we showed up and played like the young kids that we are.   
But I also think -- and I think this is something that the Mountain West has got to get figured out, because I felt we were really disadvantaged by the way the scheduling goes.   
And we were on the road last Saturday. We were on the road last Monday. We came back and played a game on Thursday. We played a game on Sunday. And then we have to turn around and play a team like this that it's basically a track meet on Monday and they haven't played since last Monday. They've been sitting around eating bonbons while we've been chasing all over the country and playing basketball games. And something like that has got to be figured out.   
 Q.  You mentioned you had success in the season. How do you reflect on that success late in the year? I think it was six of the last nine games you did win, obviously advance in the championship, did have some all conference honorees. How do you reflect on that success in the league late in the year?  
KAELIN IMMEL: I think we've learned a lot through this year. I think having predominantly freshmen and sophomores, getting the opportunity to play that many minutes in all these games and having all these close games -- throughout the season we've only -- all the games we've lost have been within 10 points or so besides a few.   
And getting that experience and learning how to play through those close games and finally coming out on top towards the end of the season has been really beneficial for us. And I think we can take those experiences and learning how to push through close games from those and take that into next season. And hopefully we can start from the get-go knowing how to come out on top.   
COACH GOBRECHT: Yeah, I think one of the biggest disappointments for these guys is that we have been extremely competitive in every game. This is only the third game -- if you don't count Arizona State -- this is only the third game that has not been -- less than double digits.   
If you took so many of those close games, and we get even half of them, we potentially have a 16-, 17-win season that could take us into postseason play. I think that's what we have to remember. I feel badly that this group and all that they've accomplished had to end it that way because that's not the team they are.   
When we've played Boise State the last two times, they've been very close games. So I just feel badly that had to happen. But I do think it's also the kind of thing that gets your attention maybe and has you a little bit more dialed in during the offseason.   
 Q.  Wanted to ask about Boise State. You see what they do with the combination they have inside and out and they're all basically seniors and veteran players. I know they didn't have the regular season they wanted, not winning the league, but how good are they?  
COACH GOBRECHT: I think you saw tonight how good they are. That's a very, very talented team that's been playing together for four years. Those kids have been together for four years. And they're very skilled.   
I think Coleman had the game of her life. But I wasn't surprised, necessarily, by anything that they were able to accomplish offensively. I was obviously disappointed in us defensively. But I think they spent a lot of the year being a little bit bored because they've been playing, they've been doing the same thing for so long, and it sort of lost its luster a little bit for them.   
But now they're -- it's home stretch. I'd be shocked to tell you the truth if -- not shocked, but I'd be a little surprised if they didn't win the whole tournament.   
 Q.  You talked about the team being competitive all season long, outside the Arizona State game. And even tonight, even though the score doesn't reflect it with the outcome, if you look at three of the four quarters, the team was very competitive. It was just the second quarter that kind of got away. Can you pinpoint anything that happened that quarter?  
COACH GOBRECHT: Yeah, Briana Autrey-Thompson got in foul trouble. That's what happened. And unfortunately we had to turn to freshmen and it was just a really tall order for those young kids.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT