KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2018
Mark Mielke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell me about just the day, because you held it steady and everybody else was having issues out there with the golf course in more different ways than one.  I just wondered how you really felt to keep it steady and you had an even par round today?
MARK MIELKE: Yeah, the golf course played a lot harder today, the wind picked up and it got a little firmer.  It was definitely a little tougher today.  I didn't make near as many birdies, so every bogey that I made it ramped up the stress level a little bit.  So and plus we were watching Steve Dodd, I mean that was unbelievable and then when it started to fall apart it was like, wow, you didn't even want to watch.  So it was kind of emotional to watch it.
But it was fun, it was a good round, we kind of just ground it out.  I hit a ton of fairways, it's a hard time messing that up.  I hit a lot of greens and made a few birdies to offset a few mistakes.  I hit a couple of terrible shots today and a couple birdie to offset them, so it was all right.
Q. The good thing is you have the cushion to make the cut and make a chance for the low club professional and you've been there before.
MARK MIELKE: Yeah, yeah, now it's kind of a little bit of pressure off, being able to play on the weekend, knowing that you already made the cut.  So I think Fridays are sometimes harder than Saturday.
Q. When you're watching Stephen out there, he had a brilliant round, one stroke from the course record on the front and then things go like that, you said it was emotional because you want your guy at least to be successful and finish it out, right?
MARK MIELKE: Absolutely.  I mean I thought that we were going to have front row seats to 59.  That would have been kind of cool.  But he just drew such a terrible lie on 10, right in front of the bunker.  He had a little delicate shot, he had only about 45, 50 yards and out of a divot and I was like, oh, no, don't tell me.  And he hit it fat in the bunker.  And then it went off the green and got to the front.  So it was kind of like you could see it happening a little bit.  But he held it together and he had a great attitude the whole day, he never really got down on himself, so it was kind of fun to watch him play.
Q. With that behind you and like you said for Friday and maybe a little more free wheeling tomorrow and just take it and relax a little more?
MARK MIELKE: Yeah, absolutely.  Saturday will be hopefully it will be a fun day.  This place, you can't go at too many pins, you got to hit a lot of middle of greens and take your putts at it and hopefully every now and then knock one close.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT