SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2013
Mark Mielke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I know you didn't like the way things turned out on the back nine, but you roared off to a great start.   Are you almost on the precipice of trying to turn this around and then finish strongly tomorrow?  
MARK MIELKE:   Yeah, I hit a couple weak drives on the back nine.   Got me into trouble.   I got right up against a tree root in there and had to chip out.   I made bogey.   
   
 Q.   Which hole was that?  
MARK MIELKE:   That was 14.   It was in between 3‑wood or driver off the tee.   And I hit driver and I didn't go after it and I hit a bleeder out to the right.   It was a bad swing.   I made bogey.   
And I knew I had the tough holes still to play after that.   So it was tough back nine.   Especially bogeying 18.   I hit two good shots on 18 and make bogey.   But that's what the golf course is like.   It's easy to make a bogey.   
But, no, I mean, you know, I played good on the front.   I played real good on the front and told myself just not to look at the leaderboard and just keep playing.   And it was good.   It was good.   
So, hopefully, tomorrow I'll hit it solid, hit a lot of fairways and get some chances for birdies.  
   
 Q.   Initially you told us a couple days ago that this course fit your eye and reminded you a lot of courses that you see in the Met Section and some of the competitions you have, it leaves you a little more comfortable, obviously with the surroundings with what you've seen?  
MARK MIELKE:   Absolutely.   I love the golf course.   It's spectacular.   It really is.   It does suit my eye.   It's very similar to what we play in that Met Section a lot.   Westchester, Long Island has a lot of courses like this.   
So, yeah, I'm comfortable out here.   But it's a Major and you're trying to tell yourself that it's not a Major.   Dan was great to play with today.   We had a good time.   It was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   Is there any one part of the game that you feel tonight you have to really concentrate on and think about before you play tomorrow?  
MARK MIELKE:   The two drivers I lost right, I normally hit a lot of fairways and those just seemed to really cross me.   I mean I have been struggling on No. 9.   I hit a great drive on 9.   I actually made birdie there today.   That's been a hole that's really been killing me.  
And then 10, I bogeyed 10 every day.   Today I hit a good drive on 10, I got it in the fairway and I hit it over the green in the back bunker didn't get up‑and‑down.   Made bogey there.   
So I got to figure out a way to par 10.  
   
 Q.   That will be the difference.   
MARK MIELKE:   That will be the difference.   And I got to keep on hitting it the way I'm hitting it and just not think about that I'm playing a Major, just say I'm playing with my buddies at home and not get caught up into all the hoopla.   
   
 Q.   This has been a good year for, obviously this week has been a great one for the club professionals, they're holding their own, they're showing up on the leaderboard from time to time, so that's a good thing to show everybody back home what's happening here.   
MARK MIELKE:   Absolutely.   Thank goodness the PGA of America had 35 spots for us.   I was on that last, I was going to play off to get in, so, yeah, it does, it shows that even 35 guys in this event, they can compete.   So I think that's important, because I think that, you know, if nobody made the cut and nobody's competing, you know, it wouldn't be as strong for us.   So I'm really glad that some of the other guys are playing well and it does, it does show that the PGA club professionals can play.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT