AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: YANKEES VS ASTROS
October 18, 2019
Jose Altuve
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just coming to the park today knowing that you don't really have much pressure on you guys, what's the different mentality showing up today when the pressure is on the other side and they have to win?
JOSE ALTUVE: I feel, like I said yesterday, we're going to keep our game plan. We've been coming to the field to play a hundred percent, to do everything we can to win the game, and not because we are up in the series 3-1 we are going to relax or think about this game is not as important as it was yesterday.
We need to win today, and like I said, just keep moving forward.
Q. Award season is obviously coming up, and Yordan is getting a lot of consideration for Rookie of the Year Award. What has set him apart and what has impressed you most about him as a young player?
JOSE ALTUVE: Well, I think what impressed me the most is how smart and smooth he is. He came in big situations during the season and he act normal. He was like he's been there before.
His approach, his mentality, everything about him is so good. What I like a lot about him is how hard he works and how humble he is, that's huge for him.
Q. There's been a lot made of launch angle and exit velocity the last few years. But the changes in pitching have been just as dramatic with the high fastball and a lot more breaking balls being thrown. What sort of challenges have the new pitching philosophy presented to you and to other hitters?
JOSE ALTUVE: That's a tough question. Yeah, you can tell now that pitchers are throwing more forcing fastballs up and sliders down and away. So as a hitter you want to always look for a fastball and then react for other things. But now with the separation of the two pitches it's like you have to pick one and then if you don't get your pitch, you might strike out. That's why we've seen a lot of strikeouts lately in the game.
Q. When you were here with the Astros in all the tough years that you went through, how hard was it to kind of believe that you could have seasons like this where you're winning a hundred games and getting to the World Series and winning it? And what made you confident that you could have years like this?
JOSE ALTUVE: Well, yeah, I still remember when we lost a hundred games three years in a row. It seems like we were in the very, very bottom. So the only hope I have was to keep working hard because everybody keeps telling me, Yeah, we're going to win a championship, we're going to be a really good team. So I wanted to be a part of that.
It was hard to believe but it happened. And I think I said it last week, we couldn't be here without being there. So one thing complement another thing. I think we learn a lot from losing.
Q. You've been around for a while. With CC Sabathia having thrown his last pitches last night, what comes to mind when you think of a guy like that?
JOSE ALTUVE: Leadership. I never got the chance to play with him but I talked to a lot of his teammates and they all say he's a great guy. He's the best teammate you can have. I feel really good for his career. He has a tremendous career.
I feel kind of bad last night because -- you don't want a guy like him get hurt in his last maybe appearance. But if you see the big picture, he has a tremendous career.
Like I said, I didn't have the chance to play with him but I really admire him the way he goes in there and do everything he can for his team.
Q. Sometimes with ubertalented teams it feels like they think they can out-talent other teams or they take the foot off the gas pedal. But for the last three seasons, Houston hasn't done that. What has been the driving factor for you guys and how do you stay so focused and confident?
JOSE ALTUVE: Maybe the chemistry of the team, relationship between the players. And like I said all the time, we have a team full of good players but none of these guys are selfish. They don't want to be the star. They don't want to be the MVP; they just want to win. And when you have guys going in the same direction I think it's easier.
When you have too many good players trying to be stars or MVP, I think teams going different ways. And that's why I always say we have 25 leaders on the team. Even when people -- I heard a lot of people say we don't have leaders in the clubhouse, but we do. We have 25 people going in the same direction, and that's probably even better than having only one guy being the leader.
Q. Your manager has repeatedly called you the heart and soul of the franchise. How does that make you feel? And how have you been able to maintain your level of success in the postseason?
JOSE ALTUVE: Well, AJ, he's obviously a great manager and he's really good at communication with players. And he has helping me a lot. I really appreciate his comments, especially the way he is.
But I think the same way about my other teammates. It's really hard to not believe George is the heart and soul of the team. And then you have Bregman, which is a guy who is full in love with baseball. He loves baseball.
I always say this team doesn't have only one -- we don't rely on only one player; we rely on everybody. And I love the way we've been playing right now and we've been helping each other.
Q. What has it meant to you and your teammates that every year during the stretch the front office seemingly finds a way to find weapons during the season?
JOSE ALTUVE: Same thing, we're pulling in the same direction. I think they see us as a player going to the field and playing hard every single day that they really feel responsible for backing us up and finding pieces to make this team better even when people think this team can be better.
Like last year or '17 we got Justin, then last year we got Gerrit Cole, and now we've got Zack. It's really impressive what they doing and I just feel happy for that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT