MLB WORLD SERIES: ASTROS VS DODGERS
October 29, 2017
Carlos Correa
Jose Altuve
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Los Angeles Dodgers - 12, Houston Astros -  13
Q. Carlos, at this point do you just kind of expect this guy next to you to make these big things happen at big times during the game?
CARLOS CORREA: Like I said before, nothing surprises me anymore.  When he goes out there, I expect great things to happen.  He's the best player alive right now.  And when he steps in the batter's box, great things are going to happen.
At that point I talked to him before getting the at-bat, "This is your moment."  And he didn't let me down.  He hit a homer and got us going.
Q. And the same thing for you?
JOSE ALTUVE: Yeah, absolutely.  You want to know something?  Most of the things I do out there is because of him, believe it or not, it's hard to believe because he's just 23 years old.  But let me tell you something, he's a leader inside the clubhouse.  And what can I say?  He's a superstar, and I'm really happy to have Carlos on my team.  And not just as a teammate; he knows we're friends.  And I hope that this relationship is for a long time.
Q. Two of the World Series games, games 2 and 5 have both been just historic.  What's it like to be in those games and for both of them to come out victorious at the end and now be one win away from winning the World Series?
CARLOS CORREA: I think it's crazy, man.  To just be part of it is such a blessing.  These games are hard on me.  I feel like I'm going to have a heart attack out there every single time.  It's high pressure out there.  The game is going back and forth.  Both teams are great, scoring runs, and putting up at-bats together.  And there's a lot of pressure on you when you're out there and you want to win a game, and you want to win the World Series.
So hopefully we can win one more game and take a break, because this is hard on me.
JOSE ALTUVE: He said it all.  It's a lot of emotions going on in that game.  But the thing is we never give up.  It doesn't matter if we start the game 4-0, but we keep playing, we keep putting some really good at-bats together.  We came back twice, we took the lead, they tied the game, and we did it again.  This is the team we are.  This is the team we've been all season long.  And I'm really proud of every single guy in that clubhouse, because tonight everybody did something to help us win the game.
Q. Alex Bregman isn't technically a rookie, but this is the first full season, to have a hit in that moment, what are your impressions of him?
JOSE ALTUVE: I knew he was going to do it.  He likes those kind of situations.  He's calling for it.  I knew he was ready to get the big hit.  He did it.  And I'm so happy for him because I love that guy, and he brings a lot of things to the table that definitely help us to be here in the World Series.
CARLOS CORREA: There is nobody more confident in that guy in the locker room.  He's very confident every time.  He's going to show up for the game, he expects the best out of him.  And he was facing Jansen, the best closer in the game, and he went to hit knowing that the game was going to be over.  So that's what makes him so special, he's always very confident.
Q. What is it like when you're playing a game and it gets away from you, you keep fighting back and fighting back, and now to be one win away, just what's the whole thing like tonight?
JOSE ALTUVE: Yeah, five-hour game, but it doesn't matter.  I can play a ten-hour game if we are going to win.  That's the most important thing, to win the game.
We have one more victory.  But we're still very humble about that.  We also know who we're playing.  You have to play for every single inning to beat the Dodgers.  We've beat them in LA.  We've got to do it again.  But like I said, we've got to play our game and try to do the best we can.
Q. Is there any way to explain how 25 runs could have been scored in a game that was started by Keuchel and Kershaw, and how unlikely that was?  And what was the feeling like in the dugout, home run, home run, hit, hit?
CARLOS CORREA: Nobody expected that, but we're teammates and we pick up each other.  Keuchel didn't have the best outing probably, but the bats were hot today and we were able to win the game.  At the end of the day all that matters is winning.
We're all happy we got the win, and we're ready to roll for the next game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT