MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
David Chung
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
   
  Q. Would have been sweet to have that birdie at the end, wouldn't it?  
 DAVID CHUNG: Yeah, I fought my butt off today. I was hitting it really crappy, but getting up-and-down from a lot of crazy places.   
 And I finally had a birdie putt on the 18th, six feet and I said, well after I made all those par putts, this should be, you know, this should be easy. But I just misjudged the speed. I had the line, I misjudged the speed. And it would have been awesome, but I still am happy with the way that I fought today.  
  
  Q. Talk about the takeaway. I know you mentioned a little bit there about your Masters experience and that.   
 DAVID CHUNG: I'll just remember the moments that I had with my caddie, Adam, my coach as well, and just being out there just trying to take it all in.   
 The crowds, I talked about that, that they're just unbelievable and it's fun to have such a large like group of people reacting to your shots. I think that's just awesome.   
 And then just the mystique of Augusta National. It's a place like no other. They have that as one of their slogans, but it's really true. I just am really thankful to be a part of the amateur tradition here.  
  
  Q. The cut, you weren't that far off the cut. You had a chance. You had to believe that, right?  
 DAVID CHUNG: Yeah, I thought it would be actually like 2-over. And I fought back, I made a good birdie on 13, I almost made a birdie on 14 and I was right in position to make a birdie on 15 and I just didn't capitalize.   
 Made great up-and-downs on 16 and 17 and just didn't capitalize on 18 again. But I didn't have my swing at all today and I fought really hard and I'm proud of myself.  
  
  Q. Are you going to stay around?  
 DAVID CHUNG: Yeah, I think so. No reason to go back to school after two weeks.   
 (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 DAVID CHUNG: I think so. Ones you're in the moment, it's hard to realize where you are, but once you're out of it you look back and you say, wow, that really was a big moment and I'm really thankful to be a part of it and it was just surreal that I was part of it.   
  
  Q. Did the course play any different than yesterday?  
 DAVID CHUNG: Yeah, the greens were a little firmer and faster and it was a little more windy today.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT