NCAA WOMEN'S REGIONAL SEMIFINALS AND FINALS: DALLAS
March 25, 2016
Ruth Hamblin
Sydney Wiese
Jamie Weisner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by our student-athletes from Oregon State, Jamie Weisner, Sydney Wiese and Ruth Hamblin.  We will take questions from the floor.   
 Q.  Jamie and Sydney, this question for you guys, sorry, Ruth too many!  You guys have had the ability to be so competitive on the floor in games and practice and as soon as you guys are off you guys are having a great time dancing and just being such good friends.  How important has that been for you guys to develop success and how have you been able to do that?  To be so focused on the floor and then have so much off of it?  
JAMIE WEISNER: I think we came in all together, basically, five seniors, five freshman together and then Sydney's class there was four of them, so the core of us have just been together, kinda grown up together.  We're best friends off court, and I think that just creates, like, we want to fight for each other on the court because we're that close and we fight for each other and play for each other.  I think that off court just really creates something different on the court for us.   
SYDNEY WIESE: I think, too, our personalities are just care free and we're genuine people, so obviously playing college basketball is a blessing and you realize that it's sort of like your job so you have to compete.  But we want to compete for each other.  We want to push each other, hold each other accountable to higher standards.   
Then off court we just have fun.  Even on the court you will catch us cracking jokes sometimes and we just like to have fun out there.  I think at the end of the day you want to remind yourselves and each other that we want to do this to have fun to push each other and to reach new heights, but I think that helps us off court, too, just to relax and, you know, have fun with each other as well, any moment that we can.   
 Q.  Guys, obviously it's a blast for you to be here, how locked are you in now at this Sweet 16 level.  Can you just say we're going to go out and play hoops tomorrow?  Start with Sydney.  
SYDNEY WIESE: Hey, Ron.  It's been fun still, but we're so dialed in.  We have had a few practices this week where it's like the beginning of the season again.  We're competing at such a high level.  At this point in the season you can't make any mistakes, and I feel like our coaching staff and we have been holding each other to this higher standard of execution on both ends of the floor, and I think we want to do whatever it takes to win the next game in front of us.   
RUTH HAMBLIN: Kind of what Sydney said.  We're focused and I think we're having fun and that's been translating how we play basketball and even in the Pac-12 tournament.  You see us having fun together and that's when we are playing our best is when we are playing loose together.   
JAMIE WEISNER: At this point this is what we work for the whole season.  I wouldn't say being here is a distraction at all, I mean, we're more dialed in than ever.   
 Q.  Ruth, you're now facing another team that doesn't really have a traditional center and St. Bonaventure was the same way.  What types of challenges does that present to you offensively and defensively or what do you see as maybe kind of how you can find success tomorrow?  
RUTH HAMBLIN: Definitely it mixes things up a little bit defensively.  I can't hangout in the paint as much and block as much shots perhaps, but definitely still looking to do that.  But I think you've got to get out and contest those shots when they have five shooters like that, change your scheme a little bit.  But offensively hopefully you want to bury them down low and take advantage of the size mismatch.   
 Q.  Ruth, first of all, congratulations, All-Academic First Team, which is cool, but we know about you in Corvallis, but for people who live in Canada, do you hear a lot from Canadian fans?  From Team Canada?  Because they know you're playing there, but you're also involved in Team Canada.  Talk about that?  
RUTH HAMBLIN: I think I have a strong Canadian contingent following.  It is always fun to hear.  I know my family back at home and especially people here in Houston are really behind me and it's really cool to represent the "north" down here and get to play the game I love.   
 Q.  More questions for our student-athletes?  Okay, ladies, good luck tomorrow!  
SYDNEY WIESE: Go, Beavers!   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT