BAYLOR UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 9, 2010
Art Briles
Robert Griffin
Antonio Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   THE MODERATOR: Opening statement and then we'll take questions.   
 COACH BRILES: Straight to questions.  
  
  Q. Art, can you talk about just the way the game ended like that, how frustrating was that to end the game like that?   
 COACH BRILES: Really proud of the way our guys played. I thought they showed a lot of heart, a lot of belief. A lot of resiliency, which is a nice trademark of youth.   
 It's unfortunate at the end we didn't score when we had opportunities.  
  
  Q. Coach, what was Tech doing especially maybe in the first half to move the ball and score points, and also what changed for you guys kind of in the rally?  
 COACH BRILES: Fifth-year quarterback executing as well as he can and did. And everybody being on the same page. You know, I think we eventually started getting a little pressure on wearing down a little bit. Got to him a couple of times.   
 But he was very accurate throughout the day.   
  
  Q. Just overall schematically how different was this Tech team than any team you've had to face this year?  
 COACH BRILES: The same, very same. It comes from Hal Mumme. If you track Hal Mumme's background, you can go to Iowa Wesleyan, Copperas High School, Valdosta State, or University of Kentucky, to New Mexico State, to Southeastern Louisiana to McMurry College, done the same thing ever since he started coaching. A lot of people have used his system.  
  
  Q. It seemed, particularly in the first three quarters, a lot of their yardage, you guys didn't seem to tackle very well, is that the way you saw it?  
 COACH BRILES: I saw them make some yards after catch, without question. It's a fast-paced game. And I thought both teams played extremely hard.  
 We had a couple of three three and outs when we couldn't afford to have them. When the game is that way, you have to score, and when you have the ball offensively. Opening drive opening half, it's a clear example. We had the momentum actually going there and just go three and out.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about Josh Gordon's contribution today and was he held out of the first quarter?   
 COACH BRILES: You know, Josh is a guy that's -- you know, the thing I like about him is he's got a lot of passion for the game. He plays -- he really plays with his heart and his soul. And, boy, I really respect people that approach the game from that standpoint. And he's a 19-year-old young man that is really learning how to play the game. So we're very proud of him being a part of our football team.   
  
  Q. Third year in a row, you've jumped out to an early lead against Tech. It's come down to 7 points at the end. Are you glad to keep knocking on the door or more disappointed that you haven't been able to end it with a win yet?  
 COACH BRILES: Oh, you know, I mean knocking on the door, I mean what -- barred up. You gotta win. I'm not into playing exciting games. Neither are our players. We're into winning football games.  
 We didn't win. We came to win. We prepared to win. It didn't happen. But doesn't mean we're going to lose any of our hope, faith, drive or determination, I can guarantee you that.  
 We'll stay the same. We'll have the same vision, the same goals, the same attitude and the same purpose.   
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.  
 We can go ahead with Mr. Griffin, if you would like.   
  
  Q. Robert, can you just talk about your guys' rally and how frustrating it was to come up short after that rally?  
 ROBERT GRIFFIN: You know, we never gave up. We continued fighting. That shows a lot about the character of this team. We shouldn't have got behind. And when you get behind against teams that can put up points, it can hurt you.   
 We did rally and get back in the game. But it wasn't enough.   
  
  Q. Robert, on that previous drive, the pass to (inaudible) in the end zone, did you get a look at it, did you think it was right there on target or not?  
 ROBERT GRIFFIN: We had a lot of missed opportunities, so I'm not going to single him out on that. We caught the ball well today, we threw the ball a well today. We just came up short on them. I happened to be one of them. I missed a throw before that. It's not anybody's in particular fault that we came up short.   
  
  Q. Robert, can you talk about that sequence right at the end, how difficult was that, knowing you might get at least one more shot at it?  
 ROBERT GRIFFIN: It was a great shot. Our defense did give us another shot at it. We didn't have any timeouts so we had to scramble up and make plays happen.   
 You can't really comment on the rest. So I'll just leave it at that.   
  
  Q. Antonio, a day where there was a lot of points, a lot of yards on both sides. Assess the defensive performance today by you guys, how you feel like you played.   
 ANTONIO JOHNSON: I feel like we played, you know what I mean, we played very hard, you know what I mean? But like it just came out today -- we played a very good offense. They played a really good offense. But it all came down to who was going to stop, the one-sided offense then. I guess they did their job.  
  
  Q. Robert, is it extra frustrating against Tech, I know third time, seven points is the only difference. It just comes down to a couple of plays. Is it extra frustrating against these guys, or what it is?   
 ROBERT GRIFFIN: I just look at it as another game. We owe a lot of people in this conference. We've got a lot of games we need to not make up for but go win. So Tech happened to be one of those. But it's not something I'm going to beat myself up about. Offensively we played good. We could have put more points on the board to win the game and we didn't. So we bear that burden.   
  
  Q. Antonio, three three quarters, Tech did what they wanted to do. Talk about what you all did to at least slow them down and obviously getting a turnover, too?  
 ANTONIO JOHNSON: I guess we stayed with a lot of pressure. We started getting more pressure on the quarterback, still dropping more in our zone, starting doing more of our assignments like we were supposed to do in the first quarter. It all started and we were going to.  
  
  Q. Antonio, you had a big catch on the special teams. I don't ever remember you having one at wake co-high, did you?   
 ANTONIO JOHNSON: No, not fake, where I actually get to catch the ball. But, no, but I enjoyed that. But like I would have liked if it would have helped us to win the game, you know what I mean? But it was cool. I liked it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT