VRBO CITRUS BOWL: AUBURN VS NORTHWESTERN
December 30, 2020
Big Kat Bryant
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. What have you seen as far as preparation of the team?
 BIG KAT BRYANT:   Just been focused on us.  Trying to get to playing shape and just overall just really playing shape for the game and just trying to make sure everybody, you know, [is] focused and ready -- really locked in and ready to go and finish, finish the mission.
 Q. Thinking back when you reported in June, did you expect to play a whole season and get to go to a Bowl game this year?
 BIG KAT BRYANT:   Yeah, ready to get something out of this season, or at least I look forward to it, you know. Definitely with all that's going on, you look forward to maybe a Bowl game or something like that -- maybe reward yourself or your team for all the hard work you put in throughout the year.
 Q. Has this been a learning experience for you guys and maybe especially for young guys?
 BIG KAT BRYANT:   It definitely has been, a lot of these guys they never really been through a head coaching change so we just trying to figure out, you know, as far as leadership, I've been doing my best trying to lead the guys and try to keep the guys positive in the best way I can.
 You know, that's been the biggest challenge, try to keep guys motivated.  But I think it's been a learning experience and I think with the coach that we have, they doing their best to keep everybody positive and motivated and so I think it been a good learning experience, but we definitely learned a lot.
 Q. What have you seen of the young guys that have played a little this year, maybe Chris Thompson and maybe Tennison, some of those young guys, what have you seen out of them as they are preparing for their first Bowl game?
 BIG KAT BRYANT:   Just their confidence.  They are really just kind of getting their confidence playing college ball.  You know, Tenn, made his first start Friday.  So guys like them, just getting their reps to kind of build their foundation for next year.  Guys like Z that's going to have to play a big role in the game.
 So like I say, really them guys building their confidence, setting their foundation for themselves.
 Q. The seniors have an option to have conversations about possibly returning for next year but if this does end up being your last game at Auburn, how much you motivation do you have to go out off and on a high note and perform at a high level with the NFL Draft possibly being the next thing for you?
 BIG KAT BRYANT:   Going into this game, it's big motivation.  You know I got hurt at the beginning of the year, so for me, it's not how you start; it's how you finish.  I'm trying to finish as strong as I possibly can because you know it's been a rocky road for me and didn't turn out the way I wanted it to.  Like I say, it's all about trying to finish as strong as I can.  Been working towards it and for it.  It's just what I do on the field now.
 Q. You mentioned it's been a challenge to get guys motivated and that's been one of your jobs.  What kind of challenge has that been?  What do you think are some of the keys for you guys to play well as a defense in the Bowl game?
 BIG KAT BRYANT:   The biggest challenge just because, you know, a lot of the freshmen just haven't had a normal freshman year and it's been stressful, we had to stop and go, a lot of emotions up and down.  It's really, you know -- we got guys out with COVID.
 So it's just been like -- it's been real hard just trying to keep guys in tune and motivated because I mean, they've never really been through anything like this.
 So as a leader on this team, I just continue to motivate them and show them there's a bigger picture.  Once you get in my position, you want the guys that are younger than you to play for you and it's just a rotation.  It's a rotation that happens every year and it's something I preach to the guys and let them know.
 Q. What do you think you guys need to do well on defense to be successful?
 BIG KAT BRYANT:   Stop the run.  They are a big run team.  Big pressure team.  Stopping the run is going to be the biggest thing.  If we can get guys in third-and-long, second-and-long, I think it's going to be a long game.  I don't think they can lock our heads.  I don't think they have really seen the athletic ability up front all year consistent like we have or a lot of people have.
 Q. What have you seen from their offensive line and their blocking schemes and what is the style of their quarterback?
 BIG KAT BRYANT:   It's like a typical team, SEC team that we play.  We respect our opponent and I really think that they are a well-coached group.  You know, I feel like they have, you know, maybe a little bit more experience than we have up front.  But like I say, then they got a couple guys that opted out, so I don't know how that's going to go as far as that run game, but I feel like they are running a whole lot.
 The quarterback, he's a pretty good quarterback.  He runs every now and then.  He's not scared to run it.  But I really think they have good plan, coaching scheme, from just watching the Ohio State game and previous games.  Like I said, stopping the run is going to be the biggest thing and like I said, they are pretty good up front.
 Q. Their defense, they only give up 15 points a game.  Does that motivate you as a defense and do you go in thinking it could be a low-scoring game?
 BIG KAT BRYANT:   I didn't know that, but yeah, definitely, always motivate us.  Just competition, us being competitive when it comes down to numbers, we're going to do what we can to keep the guys out of the end zone.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT