84 LUMBER CLASSIC OF PENNSYLVANIA
September 21, 2003
Frank Lickliter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Frank.  20-under just wasn't enough, but you gave it a great run today, and J.L. Lewis, a 62 in the final round, that's hard to beat.

FRANK LICKLITER II:   It's hard to beat 62s on Sundays even though it was a Saturday and Sunday rolled together.

TODD BUDNICK:  Talk about the 36 holes today.  Obviously it's a tough day for all the players.

FRANK LICKLITER II:   36 holes is just brutal.  Normally when we have 36 holes, it's because we got hammered with rain or something.  Normally the golf course is soft and that makes walking a little harder; and forget about your pant cuffs and just plow right on through.

TODD BUDNICK:  You got to 13-under today.  That's a pretty good number for the day and you being in contention.

FRANK LICKLITER II:   Yeah, I thought 12 was going to be good.  You know, I was extremely happy to play as well as I did, and to make as many birdies as I did.  I think I only had three birdies today.  Like Stuart said, it would have taken 15-under from where we started.  It's a lot of birdies on any golf course, let alone in one day.

TODD BUDNICK:  You have a win and a runner-up, very successful season so far, what are you goals and events coming up?

FRANK LICKLITER II:   The Top 30 is always a goal and I'll be disappointed if I'm not there at the end of the year.  I just got back from Alaska last Friday.  I spent two weeks up there with Fuzzy.  It was good because it cleared my mind and it I was very relaxed.  The six weeks prior to that, I was playing some real solid golf, 1-under, 2-under, just not getting a whole lot out of it, doing a lot of the same things I did this week.  Except this week, I got everything that I could out of it, without beating my head against the wall.


Q.  Do you have a different mindset when you have to play 36, like after the first five hole   --

FRANK LICKLITER II:   If it goes  -- after the first five holes, yes, it's a countdown:  30, 29, 28.  When you're making birdies, your mindset becomes:  One more, one at a time, one more, give myself a chance to make one more birdie on this very next hole.  And you kind of hopefully stay in that mindset and cruise. 


Q.  Inaudible?

FRANK LICKLITER II:   I myself love making birdies.  It's not that this golf course is a birdie-fest.  You can may bogey out there in a heartbeat.  The rough is up, and where some of the officials put some of the pins, birdie  -- it's not gimmee birdies on every hole.  Even the short holes, if you don't hit it in the right spot, if you're 30 feet in the wrong spot, you've got problems.  This is a good little golf course. 


Q.  Inaudible?

FRANK LICKLITER II:   No.  Like I said, it's of last six holes, I'm thinking:  "Okay, let's see how many birdies I can make in the last six holes." I ended up making a bogey in there but it would not have mattered.  I made one bogey in my afternoon round.  Had I not made that bogey, I still would not have won.  I was just thinking, somehow, get in on a roll, roll, and trying to make four or five birdies until the last six holes.  And I only made two. 


Q.  Inaudible?

FRANK LICKLITER II:   I was just worried about me.  I knew there was guys with so many holes  -- because I was first off this morning, off 1.  And I knew that basically unless I had a three- or a four- or even a five-shot lead that I was going to have problems, just because those guys had so many holes on me.  Some of the guys were  -- what, had eight, nine holes left when I finished.  So, you know, a lot can happen in nine holes; a lot can happen in one hole.

TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go through your birdies.

FRANK LICKLITER II:  4, I hit a beautiful wedge in there to 12 feet right under the hole.  It was one of those putts where out here, it looks like it could break a foot to the left and it's actually a left-center putt.  That's what it was. 

7, par 3, I hit it in there pin-high just right of the hole 15 feet and made a great putt. 

The par  5, I hit it over in two behind the tower back there and made a really good up-and-down.  I hit a flop-shot to about seven feet.  Hit it straight downhill. 

Then 9, I hit a little 8-iron.  I pulled it just a little bit about 25 feet left of the hole.  It was one of those double-breakers, downhill double-breaker, and it broke correctly both ways. 

13, that pin up there on a shelf.  It's all distance control.  When I got finished, I watched so many guys put it up and suck it right back on the green.  Another guy hit it on the back edge and it bounces over.  You just have to absolutely nail your distance there, and fortunately I did.  I had about a 12-footer from just left of the hole. 

My bogey, I drove it in the right rough.  I missed two fairways in a row there actually.  Almost got it on the green.  I was just a step short of the green and pitched it back there to about six feet and just missed it low. 

16, I hit 3-iron right at the pin and left it about 30 feet short, and left that one short right in the heart about six inches. 

17, I hit it just right of the pin, just outside left edge putt from 18 feet. 


Q.  Inaudible?

FRANK LICKLITER II:   I think the course would be a bear to drive.  Driver would definitely be different.  If these fairways were firm and rolling and the greens were firm, I think this course has got some teeth in it.



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT