THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DYNEGY
November 1, 2001
Frank Lickliter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  Birdies on 1 and 3.  9-iron right underneath the hole on the first hole.  Maybe eight feet.  Obviously made it.  Made a very good stroke.  I felt really good to get off to a birdie start out on this golf course.  Then 3, I hit probably the best drive I have hit all day, hit it right down the path, walkway, you know, we walk on, that was my line.  I hit it  -- I split that, I get down there and it's through the end of the fairway.  But I was so happy with the way I hit it, because it went dead straight; ended up hitting gap-wedge to about three and a half feet.  11, good par 4 there, I drove it in the right rough.  Had the wind going down left-to-right, it kind of carried it into the rough.  I hit an 8-iron to that back pin.  Hit it on the front of the green, went all the way over into the fringe, good four feet into the fringe.  I made it  from off the fringe, it broke about four feet left-to-right.  Probably the best putt I made all day right there.  
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  20 feet.  13, par 5, I hit a 2-iron right past the hole, about 40 feet past the hole, and 2-putted.  17, I hit 7-iron from 157 yards to about a foot and a half.   18, hit 6-iron 20 feet left of the hole outside left-edge putt. 
 
Q.  I am just wondering did you feel a good game inside of you when you were warming up, when you woke up today or did it just evolve while you were out there?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  No, I am working on something in my swing.  I felt very uncomfortable on the range, very uncomfortable on basically every shot I hit.  Which isn't always a bad thing (laughs) because you have to pay attention.  I am working on something and just tried to do it on every swing. 
 
Q.  What are you working on?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  I will tell you Sunday. 
 
Q.  What I mean by this is when you felt this starting to happen it  --
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  I wasn't paying attention to where I was, or the scoreboard.  I didn't know that Mr.  Langer was at 6-under already.  I was just one shot at a time.  I know it's kind of cliche, but it still works one shot at a time. 
 
Q.  Don't sound like somebody who had a great round.
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  Oh, I am happy.  It's not that -- it doesn't feel comfortable .   Sometimes you can do that every time.  It's when you get really comfortable that you don't know exactly what you are doing. 
 
Q.  How drastic of a change was it?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  It's pretty significant.  It feels that way anyway.  Let's put it that way.  It feels like it's about six inches difference, if not more, could be eight inches. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible)
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  Super secret stuff, can't tell you.  
 
Q.  If I may try one more time.  You had great iron-play today.  But did that take pressure off your putting or did you just putt exceptionally well today?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  I kind of putt good everyday.  Whether I putt good or bad I always seem to make some putts here or there.  I hit it in a couple of nasty spots today, end up having  -- got kind of, I don't know, fortunate to make the return putts from 10 or twelve feet.  I had that happen twice today, so it's one of those things that you do that turns into a good round into a really good round. 
 
Q.  You keep saying you are very uncomfortable, very significant  -- terrible day  -- you never felt in your place today?  You were uncomfortable for 18 holes?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  Oh, yeah.  Yeah.  That's the way golf is.  Golf is weird.  Trust me, I have felt great before, I have felt great on Sundays with chances to win and not played very well.  This game is weird and it's not that I am trying to feel uncomfortable.  I just happen to be working on something right now. 
 
Q.  How would you assess your year?  Do you feel like you have taken your game this year to another level; if so, why?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  More comfortable.  More comfortable.  I feel like I belong  -- I feel like  -- mentally comfortable I should say that.  Not comfortable with my game.  More comfortable as a player.  More comfortable with my peers.  You can read that as I don't care what my peers think, you know, (laughs) that type of thing.  Yeah, so, you know, which has made it easier to make birdies and making birdies is fun and that's kind of a good circle. 
 
Q.  Since you are working on something out there and you were really concentrating on working on something and you had such success, confidence level is way up, I presume?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  It's getting there.  It's getting there.  It's moving in the right direction.  This game is always peaks and valleys.  The first three-quarters of the year I was on the upswing and took a week off before  -- actually I think I had took two weeks off before Montreal and ended up withdrawing from there.  So basically the first cut I made was last week in two months.  So not only did I have a great part of my career and the best part of my career so far and being on the upswing I have also  -- I also took a pretty steep drop right there.  It's a learning process. 
 
Q.  Why are you reluctant to disclose the swing change?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  Not reluctant.  I am just not going to tell you right now.  
 
Q.  It won't change tomorrow?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  Probably not.  It won't change.  Hopefully it doesn't change. 
 
Q.  After this week up until Mercedes what are your plans?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  In terms of playing in the off-season?  
 
Q.  Playing and whatever else you might do?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  I don't think I understand the question.  
 
Q.  What are your plans after this week and up until Mercedes?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  I am playing in the Shark Shootout next week with JD.  Flying directly from Naples to Colorado for the last three days of Elk season out there.  Flying home probably Thursday morning, I am going it try and take Rocco hunting Thursday afternoon.  And probably hunt the rest of that week.  Probably not pick up a club for a few days after that and go hunting again somewhere. 
 
Q.  If you show up tomorrow on the range and suddenly everything just feels golden, you are comfortable as you can possibly be, what will you do?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:  Then I will be nervous.  If my swing feels comfortable, my mind will be uncomfortable. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT