CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
June 28, 2001
Frank Lickliter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
FRANK LICKLITER:   The course is in great shape.  The greens are absolutely perfect and I made some really nice putts today.  I made about three 20-footers.  I made about three 10-footers.  
 
FRANK LICKLITER:   The first was the par  5.  I made about a 15-footer there straight up the hill.  That was a gap wedge in.  16, I hit 6-iron to about ten feet right of the hole.  Then 2, I made about a 15-footer from right of the hole with a gap wedge. 3, I made about a 15-footer from dead right of the hole, straight up the hill.  6, I made about a 10-footer from right underneath the hole, just left of the hole.  No. 8, I made about a 20-footer downhill right-to-left probably from about two feet.  
 
Q.  Could you talk a little about what winning a couple weeks did for you?  You've been out here pretty good for a while, but did that get you over the hump a little bit? 
 
FRANK LICKLITER:   It made you guys a little more interesting.  
 
Q.  It made us more interesting? 
 
FRANK LICKLITER:   Well, it seems like I've been talking a lot more to the press since I've won, which is really cool.  More interviews, got them lined up.  I did  -- I did a bunch of radio interviews the week after I won.  Now, I'm into the magazine interviews, having them come down to the house.  So that's pretty cool.  
 
Q.  So we kind of neglected you for a while?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:   Yeah, I felt neglected.  (Smiles). 
 
Q.  Has anything come out of it other than just more interviews?  Have you gotten anymore deals?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:   Actually, it's just kind of helped the deals that I already had in progress.  Signed a deal with Nicks and that was already in the works before I won.  I think it made them feel a little better and it made me feel pretty awesome.  
 
Q.  Was it more than you expected or kind of what you had expected from talking to guys? 
 
FRANK LICKLITER:   It was a lot more.  It was a lot more than I expected.  It's a pretty special feeling.  I still have guys that I haven't seen since then come up to me and congratulate me, which was  -- that was four weeks ago, and I'm still getting that congratulations, from the Tour players.  So it's just  -- it's pretty incredible.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about how the course played today?  The rough was supposed to be up early in the week and the scores were supposed to be low but it seems to be lights out from early on?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:   I tell you, I haven't seen it a whole lot, but the rough is up and it is thick and it is deep.  You have to look for your golf ball if you hit it in there.  The guy who wins this week will be the guy that is driving it in the fairway.  Absolutely, driving is the best.  I missed three fairways today, and only one of those was in the rough.  I missed two in the bunkers, which, you know, you can manage from there.  But there's some rough out there that's borderline U.S. Open rough.  And the course is in absolutely perfect shape.  I think it is probably the best shape I've seen it.  So I'm impressed.  It's awesome.  
 
Q.  Did what happened earlier in the year help set you up for what happened a couple weeks ago?  What did you get  -- obviously, you wanted to win, but what did you get out of that? 
 
FRANK LICKLITER:   Patience, a little bit.  I lost my focus the first time.  I started losing my focus at the Kemper, and then I brought it back.  Fortunately, I had one hole to  -- I had enough time to bring my focus back. 
 
Q.  The last couple holes there? 
 
FRANK LICKLITER:   Yeah.  I started thinking too much.  Started losing my focus on what I was doing. 
 
Q.  Did you think about what you had gone through, or don't let this happen again?
 
FRANK LICKLITER:   That's not what I was thinking.  The difference was that I was not focused on what I was doing as well as I should have been.  Then, like I said, I had one shot to play with on the last hole.  It wasn't pretty, but it still works.  (Smiles). 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT