THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
May 30, 2001
Frank Lickliter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FRANK LICKLITER:  Well, since Monday morning, I spent more time on the cell phone than I have in the last two months, in the last two days.  So it's just had an awesome response from my family and friends.  People I get to see once a year at different tournaments.  It's pretty spectacular.  It's a wonderful feeling.   It's just been very busy. 

Q.  Frank, can you talk about -- it's been a long time since you've won anything, how do you continue to go on when you go through these droughts?  Do you just keep your head in there, say it will turn around eventually?

FRANK LICKLITER:  Just a matter of time.  I've really worked hard on my game in the past off-season, I've worked harder than I have at any point in my life.  Felt really strong coming out of the West Coast, played really solid and had a chance to win at Buick.  Other than one swing, it was that close winning my first one then.  So you know, I feel like, I obviously feel like I've been playing very solidly, and I just kept wanting to give myself a chance to win, and gave myself a good chance this past week and took advantage of it.

Q.  Coming off a win, do you feel your confidence is different heading into this tournament?

FRANK LICKLITER:  I played nine holes yesterday with Rocco.  Just hit the ball as solidly as I was last week.  The greens are perfect.  So it feels like it's easy to make some putts out here.  I feel like I'm playing very solidly.  I don't know if my confidence is any different; it's still there. 

Q.  What specifically did you work on in your game?  Do you work with any gurus? 

FRANK LICKLITER:  I have a trainer, Frank, who also works with Rocco and Vijay.  Just worked on getting stronger.  That's the strongest I've felt coming out at the start of any year.

Q.  Weight training?

FRANK LICKLITER:  A lot of different things.  Very small weights.  Not, you know, not bulking up, just getting stronger.  Making my core stronger. 

Q.  Sergio said yesterday that when you haven't won, it gets to Sunday, as you're standing over a putt you think:  Boy, I have to win.  This is really big.  Do thoughts enter your mind such as that?

FRANK LICKLITER:  It's amazing what comes in your head when you have got a chance to win.  You know, I let it slip a little bit on the last three holes.  I got  -- you know, after I hit my tee shot left on 16, I asked my caddie Tony, I said, "How we doing?"  He said, "Oh, well, we're 3-up, mate."  He's from Australia.  I said, "Okay.  Let's get this one up-and-down." You know, I was probably thinking a little more than I should have been at that point in time with three holes left. 

Q.  You think it's good to know, or not good to know?  It always appears that a golfer should know where he's at.

FRANK LICKLITER:  At some point in time you need to know, especially with those holes coming in.  Especially after I hit it left, too.  I don't think I would have played it any differently, though.  I was limited in my options because I was, you know, had a pretty nasty lie.   Basically, all I could do was try to get it on the right front of the green; but yeah, you need to  -- especially with those last three holes there at the Kemper, they are all good holes.  You need to know what you need to do. 

Q.  How tough is it, Frank, to sleep the night before a rain delay, and another rain delay, and another rain delay?  How was it Sunday night?

FRANK LICKLITER:  I felt good all week.  All I was trying to do was stay focused every day.  Didn't matter how much -- What did we have?  Nine rain delays total or something.  So you know it's coming.  You know the weather's there.  You can see the clouds building, you see  -- you hear the thunder, and you know it's just a matter of minutes before they're going to blow the whistle.  You're somewhat prepared for it, even though you might be disappointed that you didn't get to hit a putt or to get to hit a shot that you were, you know -- it's easier to hit as you keep going, as opposed to stopping and having two hours to think about it.  So... You just have to be super patient. 

Q.  Did you have to fight off any thoughts of Buick at all?

FRANK LICKLITER:  No, no.  That never came into my head.

Q.  Now that you've won your first time, I was wondering if you've had a chance to reflect on when you first turned professional and what your expectations were (inaudible)?

FRANK LICKLITER:  It's a culmination of 18 years.  This was a dream I had when I was 13.  Took me a little longer than I thought it was going to.  Now that it's here, it's all right.

Q.  How are you different from when you first came out?

FRANK LICKLITER:  I don't know if it's maturity, but I'm definitely more patient than I used to be.  That's something I continue to work on.  I definitely feel like I've got room for improvement there.  I'm always working on my game.  I love to practice.  I like to hit balls.  You know, I love the game of golf.  So, you know, yesterday, I came out and played a practice round like I normally do.

Q.  Is being the latest winner on Tour especially fun when coming back though this region and this week?  How does this course set up?

FRANK LICKLITER:  It's great coming back here.  I win last week, and I get to see my family this week and a lot of guys that I haven't seen for a year.  This golf course is one of my favorites.  I mean, it's always in perfect condition.  Even though we've had a bunch of rain here the last two weeks, the greens are absolutely magnificent.  I think this is the best I've ever seen the greens here at Muirfield.

Q.  Do your goals change at all now?  27th on the money list to 8th now.  You have to start entertaining thoughts about Ryder Cup.

FRANK LICKLITER:  No, my goals have not changed whatsoever.  That was just another step along the way.  You know, I have a lot of goals, obviously.  But that was just one more notch on the belt, so to say.  It was just, it's just part of it, you know. My only goal was not to win a PGA TOUR event and then be done.  This is hopefully just the start. 

Q.  Among your goals, where -- (Inaudible.)

FRANK LICKLITER:  This is always a great tournament to win.  You know, it's  -- he does, Mr. Nicklaus obviously does such a spectacular job.  He knows what he likes.  He knows how to run a golf tournament.  He knows how to make us feel at home when we're here.  And it really is a special week. 

Q.  Frank, you're up in the Top-10 in the money list now and will be much more visible, and up until now you've been able to play in relative obscurity along with the rest of the field.  Do you think this might have some sort of change in your life and time demands?

FRANK LICKLITER:  You're from my hometown and you're saying obscurity?

Q.  I said "relative."

FRANK LICKLITER:  Relative?  This makes it all right.  (Laughter.)

Q.  What I mean, people in the Top-10 are called upon to be in places like you are now much more.

FRANK LICKLITER:  It's not going to change me.  It's not going to change who I am.  I guess one thing that my managers are telling me that I'm going to have to say "No" more, because you know, I like taking care of people, so it's hard for me to say "No,"  I'll put it that way, for demands on my time.  And like yesterday, I did four radio interviews, four separate interviews.  You know, it was basically, the same questions over and over, and then the last one, you know, was the longest one.  You know, and it's fun, it's great.  Right now I hope it never becomes not fun .

Q.  I imagine you know what Greg Chalmers did, disqualifying himself last week  --(inaudible)?

FRANK LICKLITER:  Yes.

Q.  What does that say about him and the code that governs the Tour?

FRANK LICKLITER:  We live by the rules.  Rules are rules for everyone.  And you know, I don't think you should clap him on the back for, you know, abiding by the rules.  I mean that's  -- that's what makes this game so special is that, you know, we're self-governed. 

Q.  Considering the nature of the infraction, wasn't that maybe half a notch above and beyond?  He certainly gained no advantage.

FRANK LICKLITER:  When the USGA writes their rules, it's not gray.  It's black and white.  So yes, it might seem a little harsh, but, you know, when it comes down to the letter of the law, what he did was correct. 

Q.  Tell us a little bit about your college days, how that helped you get to where you are now.

FRANK LICKLITER:  Playing in a lot of crappy weather.  You know, I remember playing in Kentucky in the snow.  I remember playing in Ohio State when the greens were frosty in the morning and warmed up enough for the frost to fade.  And then you know, sleet on us, and just you know, the greens are bumpy.  And you know, they've got little hail balls on them sometimes.  And I remember putting through puddles.  We would just keep going.  You'd take your nearest relief, and by the time you put your ball down and looked at the putt, the river had gotten back in your line.  I mean, that's what I remember from college. 

Q.  You talked about your  -- (Inaudible.) --  Maintaining your focus through nine rain delays.  Any concerns that's going to leave you spent for the Memorial Tournament?

FRANK LICKLITER:  No.  I've tried, between phone calls I've tried to really relax.  I'm not going to do a whole lot today.  I'll play the back nine this afternoon.  Just to really try to take it easy and get prepared for tomorrow, be ready to focus again. 

Q.  Can you go back to the early '90s when you took some time off, restructured your swing?  What were you doing wrong, and has that helped you over the years?

FRANK LICKLITER:  Yeah, it really has.  I used to move my legs a lot.  I used to hit the ball with my legs.  Almost Johnny Millerish.  Just tried to quiet that down and be just a little more on plane going back.  I guess growing up I had a little bit of the Furyk move going back.  A little outside and little hooded drop it in and hit it hard with the legs.  So that's what I've gone to the opposite of that.  Tried to quiet my lower body and be more on plane.

Q.  Any tournament Tiger is in, the focus is on him.  Give us a player's perspective him being in a field that he's won twice and how the course sets up for him.  Do you consider him an overwhelming favorite this week?  Or is that not something you look at, not something the players look at even though his persona is large wherever he is?

FRANK LICKLITER:  Some players might.  I don't.  I got to play with Tiger the first time Saturday of Dallas, Byron Nelson.  And to see it firsthand, you know, how long he is.  He's hitting it 20, 25 yards by me.  On one par 5, he caught it pretty good and he probably hit it 40 by me.  But you know, this course, obviously does set up well for him.  You need to drive your ball extremely well here.  You know, he's a great player obviously.  But I don't think you can hand him the trophy quite yet.  There's a lot of golf to be played, and I think a lot of players are thinking that. 

Q.  Would you rather be paired with him?

FRANK LICKLITER:  I don't mind.  Doesn't matter.  Yeah I'd love to play with him.

Q.  Does it raise the level of your game in any way?

FRANK LICKLITER:  I think the whole Tour raises the level of their game when Tiger's around. 

Q.  Can you expand on what you mean by that?

FRANK LICKLITER:  I think guys are becoming more prepared mentally to play, and to play extremely well. 

Q.  Because they have to?

FRANK LICKLITER:  Yeah. 

Q.  I believe earlier in the week Mr. Nicklaus came out somewhat critical of the golf ball technology and saying even the currently built courses are being made obsolete.  Your feelings on the Pro V1.  I assume you're playing it.  And do you notice a difference?  Do you think that's something that should be a concern?

FRANK LICKLITER:  I tell you what, it's made a difference in my game.  I'm hitting the ball a little farther.  Now, it doesn't fly very good out of 6 inches of rough.  No ball does.  So in my opinion, you know, to make a golf course ball-proof or Tiger-proof, whatever you want it call it, it's not by making them longer, it's by making them tighter.  The U.S. Open average is what?  21 yards in width in their fairways.  22 yards. 

FRANK LICKLITER:  Thank you guys.  Appreciate it. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT