MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 7, 2000
Frank Lickliter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FRANK LICKLITER:  Well, kind of troubled today with the driver.  Hit it in the rough several times.  Drove it in the rough on two of the par 5s, played the par 5s even.  Played them, I think, 1-under yesterday and I can't remember what I did yesterday, but played them even the first day too.  So that really -- I really need to play the par 5s better tomorrow if I want to have a good chance.  I just need to drive it in the fairway better than I did today.  I am rolling the ball extremely well.  Just misread a couple of short ones, both of them on 18.  Just playing real solid.


Q.  What is it about the rough?  Several guys have said the rough is hard on them, but what is it that makes it so difficult?

FRANK LICKLITER:  You can't -- I mean, I am having to take 8-iron out of the rough and I mean, it  is thick rough.  Every once in a while the balls sits on top and you can send it from there -- if you got 200 yards, you can hit a 7-iron on or 6-iron on.  But most of the time the ball is going to the bottom and then it is covered with six, eight inches of rough.  I was taking a practice swing on 12 and actually lost my ball and had to find my caddie had to help me find it, again, as I was taking my practice swing.  I mean, that is how deep it was.  I was lucky there, I made a good up-and-down made 15-footer for par there.

FRANK LICKLITER:  5, hit a nice little 6-iron right at the pin about five feet right behind the hole.  Straight putt, it went right in.  6, I hit wedge to just over the back of the green and was actually not even in the fringe.  It was in the first cut.  But it was about two inches sitting nicely, rolled it in from about 20 feet, 25 feet.  8, hit 2-iron off the tee and again hit 6-iron in there about eight feet right under the hole, pin-high dead right, but going straight up the hill. It was straight in the guts putt.  9, I thinned a 9-iron going in there and came up just short and I chipped -- I thought I hit a  pretty good chip, it kind of squirted out of that rough to about ten feet.  I missed it.  Bogey 13, I flared a 5-iron right in the bunker and with the pin on the top shelf, that is an extremely hard bunker shot because you have got to fly it back there; then keep it back there.  Any kind of spin on it comes right back down the hill.  You try and fly it too far, it ends up over the green.  So I took my medicine and basically hit on the ridge and came back down about 30 feet.  I left that one short right in the heart, about two inches.  Birdied the next hole.  Hit driver in the right rough under the trees over there and the pin is only 7 on there, right over the top -- no, it is not 7 on, it is 5 on.  Where the one bunker is -- yeah, it is only about five over that bunker, and I was in the rough.  I took 5-iron out.  I was just trying to knock it in the bunker in front of the green and planned on getting it up-and-down from there.  Actually the ball squirted through the one bunker up on the green about 25 feet, I made the putt.  16, I was in the left first cut off the fairway there and I had 188 yards to the hole.  I hit a nice little 7-iron.  That is where I was talking about, just a little bit of a flier and not a hard  7-iron just, you know, a nice little solid 7-iron and actually hit it past the pin about ten feet, made the putt.  17, the wind is getting kind of funky out there.  I hit 8-iron right at the left edge of the green and it never moved and it landed pin-high, 12, 13 feet left of the hole.  I made that one, little left-to-righter down the hill.  Then 18 I came right out of an 8-iron, left it just short right of the pin there, chipped it up to about four feet.  As the chip is going by the hole, broke left pretty good, so the putt coming back, I put on a left edge and it never moved.  Hit a beautiful putt there.  Just didn't go in.


Q.  How far is your par-putt there, four feet?

FRANK LICKLITER:  Yeah.

FRANK LICKLITER:  No, not that I can tell probably.


Q.  You have been in this room before a couple of years ago, you know, and with Duval right there.  Is that too far back to remember; anything that you might learn to bring into tomorrow's situation?

FRANK LICKLITER:  No.  I have had a couple of  you know, good experiences here in the last couple of months.  Went back to my old irons a couple of months ago and it has really made a difference in how I have been playing.  I am happy that I made the decision to go back and I am happy that the company that I was with, you know, understood that this is how I make my living and I got to use what I am comfortable with.  But you know, I don't know if I am ready to win or not, but I am looking forward to tomorrow.

FRANK LICKLITER:  Thanks, guys.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT