SEI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC
September 16, 2000
Frank Lickliter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FRANK LICKLITER:   I started off pretty well.  Birdied the first two out of three holes.  Could have been three.  I had a real nice birdie putt at 2.  But, you know, I just played real solid today.  I missed a couple of short putts, especially on the back.  12, I missed a 4-footer for birdie.  Made a big one on 15.  Missed a 3-footer on 17 for par and I missed a 5-footer on 18 for birdie.  So, I'm giving myself opportunities. 


Q.  You had not made a bogey the entire tournament until  --?

FRANK LICKLITER:   The 14th. 


Q.  You were keenly aware of that? 

FRANK LICKLITER:   Not keenly.  I was aware of it, though.  Yeah, I've hit it pretty solid. 


Q.  How long was that putt on 10, the one you made for par?

FRANK LICKLITER:   The one on 10, that was a good 20 feet.  I was almost in the rough.  It was right up against the edge of the rough.  I'm lucky it was low there so I could actually putt it. 


Q.  Do you feel like the greens are running at the same speed they have all week or is there any difference? 

FRANK LICKLITER:   Today they are starting to show a little bit of the traffic, and it's probably from the rain we got yesterday.  Yesterday I didn't notice it so much.  But that's not why I missed the putts. 


Q.  You mean they were a little bumpier than they have been? 

FRANK LICKLITER:   I wouldn't say bumpier.  I would say on the verge of being a touch bumpier.  The greens are still rolling wonderfully. 


Q.  Talk about your position.  Are you comfortable?  Would you rather be where DiMarco is, three shots ahead?

FRANK LICKLITER:   Actually I'd rather be seven shots ahead of DiMarco, but I'm not, so, yeah, I'm happy with where I am.  I have a chance to catch him.  That's all I want is a chance. 


Q.  If you catch him and you pass him, this would be your first win and a big break.  Talk about breaking through, going into tomorrow?

FRANK LICKLITER:   I can only imagine what it will be like.  You know, we might want to talk about that tomorrow. 


Q.  Will you come out playing as aggressively as possible tomorrow?

FRANK LICKLITER:   I'll come out playing as sharply as I can tomorrow.  I mean, I like hitting it at the pin.  I hit a lot of shots at the pin.  Certainly that's where my first bogey came.  I hit my shot right over the top of the pin.  I thought I was going to make an ace there and just cut right through the wind and landed just over the back of the green and I didn't get up-and-down.  I'm trying to hit it at the pin.


Q.  In a situation like this where there's so much at stake for you, how do you sort of draw the line between unnecessary risk? 

FRANK LICKLITER:   Actually there's nothing at stake for me.  All I have  -- I can only get better.  There's nothing at stake.  I can't lose anything tomorrow.  I can win a lot.  I mean, you know, I'm out there to have fun and having fun is making birdies and passing everyone. 


Q.  Were you still striking the ball as well today as you were the previous two days?  Just a matter of the putter today?

FRANK LICKLITER:   Actually I do feel like I was striking it as well today.  Maybe a touch windier, but not really.  I hit some good shots coming in.  You know, when you miss those 3-footers, you know, it happens, but it's not how you win golf tournaments. 


Q.  Do you prefer this old, more classic style of golf course to some of the other type of golf courses out there?

FRANK LICKLITER:   I don't know if I prefer it but I like it.  I like it a lot.  It's a fabulous golf course.  I don't know who designed it, but it's classy. 

FRANK LICKLITER:   1, I hit it 12 feet left of the hole.  2, I hit it six feet just past the hole and made it.  15, I made basically the same putt I made yesterday, about a 45 or 50-footer right up the hill. 


Q.  Was that the same bunker you were in as yesterday? 

FRANK LICKLITER:   Yes, it was. 


Q.  So you had that hole all figured out? 

FRANK LICKLITER:   Yeah.  Actually, that's the one thing that I need to do tomorrow is play the par 5's better.  I'm aware of that.  And I think I've only made three birdies on par 5s, maybe only two.  15 twice, I know.  That might be it.  I think that's the only two birdies I've made on par 5s this week. 


Q.  That's playing the hardest of the three par 5s. 

FRANK LICKLITER:   Playing the hardest for me is probably 18, because getting that second shot up there, turning it over  -- I like to cut the ball, so getting that ball on to the green is probably the hardest shot, because I've got room on the other two.  I can reach 5.  A miss-club there today.  I hit my little 3-wood instead of my big 3-wood.  It still would have been on the green if it had been right at it.  15, if I drive it in the fairway there, I can hit it at the right edge of that green because I've got room to the right, and it's all fairway. 


Q.  Did you see your ball on 14 hit a guy?  The marshal was standing by where he shouldn't have been?

FRANK LICKLITER:   Yeah, he disappeared.  I was going to ask if he was all right.  I didn't see him. 


Q.  I think he had a book in his shirt, his friend said.  Didn't realize it hit him for a while.  Probably saved you from some trouble?

FRANK LICKLITER:   Not an easy shot where it ended up, but if he would not have stopped it probably would have been under the camera tower back there.  I couldn't believe how far that flew, 175, right over the top of the pin. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT