SEI PENNSYLVANIA CLASSIC
September 15, 2000
Frank Lickliter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 FRANK LICKLITER: No bogeys in the whole tournament so far.  
 
 FRANK LICKLITER: All right. Basically just made one error, and that was the at very
first hole yesterday. I teed off on 10 and hooked it into the pine trees, and I had to
punch out and actually got up-and-down from 165 yards for par. And that's the most trouble
I've been in in two days. Other than that, I hit one drive in the bunker up against the
lip on 15 and ended up making birdie from there. I've been very fortunate. Just striking
it very well off the tee and into the green.  
 
Q. Is that today on 15 or yesterday? 
 
 FRANK LICKLITER: Today. 
 
 FRANK LICKLITER: Birdied 2. Hit 5-iron to six feet right of the hole. Birdied the par 5
on the front, No. 5. I couldn't reach the hole today. I had to lay up and I hit sand wedge
to probably six feet, right below the hole. 12, a little short hole, dogleg right, and I
hit sand wedge to 15 feet, pin-high right. 15, the par 5, like I said, I drove it up into
the lip of the bunker. Hit a pitching wedge out. And I was debating on whether or not to
hit a sand wedge, just to hit it over the lip, and I ended up hitting an 8-iron and caught
the ridge and came down the bottom tier and actually made it from the bottom tier going to
the top tier.  
 
Q. How far would you say that was? 
 
 FRANK LICKLITER: That was 45 feet.  
 
Q. What's the longest par putt you've had in two days? 
 
 FRANK LICKLITER: Well, the 30-footer on the 1st hole yesterday. Other than that, I've
had a couple 4- and 5-footers, yesterday. My last hole, No. 9, I had about a 6-footer. And
basically just two or three of those, not a whole lot of them.  
 
Q. No 15-, 20-footers? 
 
 FRANK LICKLITER: No.  
 
Q. The wind is starting to kick up. Do you think this 8-under might hold for tomorrow? 
 
 FRANK LICKLITER: Maybe. Maybe. It might end up still being in the lead through
tomorrow. But then again, it might not. Even with the wind blowing.  
 
Q. Is it a big advantage getting off early do you think today? 
 
 FRANK LICKLITER: Not with the way the wind was blowing -- as long as it keeps blowing,
it might be somewhat of an advantage. And I can't tell you how good the greens are here.
The golf course is in such wonderful shape. These fairways are just perfect. And the
greens are actually perfect, too. I'm impressed with what they have done to get the golf
course in shape.  
 
Q. Do you consider this a course that you have to think your way around more so than
the average Tour stop?
 
 FRANK LICKLITER: Absolutely. You have to think about where you want your ball to end up
on the green. And sometimes, you know, you just have to take your lumps and hit it 40 feet
away from the hole and make sure that it is under the hole. There were a couple pins
yesterday that they were wicked, borderline unfair, I thought. But, yeah, you have to pay
attention to where the pin is, and you really have to, you know, work on keeping the ball
on the right part of the green.  
 
Q. Is this the best two rounds that you have put together in a while or have you been
playing mostly like this all year? 
 
 FRANK LICKLITER: No. A couple weeks ago at -- not a couple weeks, I guess about six
weeks ago, yeah. The Western, Milwaukee.  
 
End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT