AT&T NATIONAL
July 3, 2008
Frank Lickliter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You hit the ball great today out there. How did you feel about your ball-striking?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II: You know, I was a little uncomfortable with the driver even though I hit some really good drives, but I hit just some magnificent irons.   
 The 5-iron I hit into 6, 206 yards, and I flew it 205 and went 207, so it was perfect. And then almost holed it on the next hole, just hit 7-iron right at it and I was thinking about doing that so it wasn't an accident.   
  
  Q. What was the key, when you came out today, what did you think, was it right for scoring?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II: This golf course is never right for scoring. You just have to pay attention to everything that's going on out there. This golf course will jump up and bite you as fast as any in the world.   
  
  Q. Conditions change today?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II: The greens on the back nine were definitely crustier. You could see the heel prints. They were starting to get a little baked and a little purple.   
 So Sunday, they are probably going to be a little rough.  
  
  Q. Six birdies on this track; gives you confidence?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II: Yeah, if I can make six birdies every day, I'll be in pretty good shape I think.   
 You made two bogeys today and both of those were with wedges. I hit them in the wrong spots.   
 So I mean, the irons, some of the 5-irons that I hit, that's where I was making my birdies. I didn't feel like I birdied the hole that everyone thinks that you would birdie and I didn't birdie the par 5 and I didn't birdie one of the short par 4s with wedges. All of my birdies came off for the most part off 6-irons and 5-irons.  
  
  Q. (Did you see a good round coming)?  
 FRANK LICKLITER II: Well, I've known I was going to start playing well for a couple of weeks. The last couple of weeks, I missed the cut but I made 11 birdies the first two days in both of those tournaments.   
 So it's just a matter of eliminating some mistakes and keep making the birdies.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT