GINN SUR MER CLASSIC AT TESORO
October 25, 2007
Frank Lickliter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE:  Frank, thanks for joining us.  You mentioned a minute ago good to be back in here.  Great round today, 68.  Just a couple comments on the round.   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  Golf course is playing -- I think it's playing extremely tough, but I drove the ball extremely well.  Like I told Tommy, that allowed me to get some really good iron shots into these greens.  The greens are perfect.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Questions?   
  
  Q.  How much does the finish mean?  It's one hole out of 18, but how much does the finish take away?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  It chapped my ass.  You know, I watched their two putts and they barely moved left.  When I read it it looked almost dead straight.   
 You know, it's not that I didn't have enough speed on it, it just broke out of the hole.  I wasn't exactly on their lines, but it was close enough.  Yeah, it chapped me.   
  
  Q.  You've got two more weeks to get into the top 125.  How much does that weigh on your mind?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  It is what is.  You know, I'm starting to play good.  You know, whether I have enough time or not we'll see.   
  
  Q.  You are playing next week?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  Uh-huh.   
  
  Q.  Next week would be, I think, seven a row.   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Was that the plan five week ago, or have you just gone week to week with it?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  No.  I mean, I'll play until I get my card.   
  
  Q.  How did you break your arm?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  Fell.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  No, I really don't want to go into it.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  I don't want to go into it.  Thanks.   
  
  Q.  Physically you had talked earlier about how you're in the best shape of your life.  It's a grind when you're playing, when you're doing anything for that long.  How much is that helping?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  Yeah, I mean, you're saying seven weeks like it's a terrible thing.  I mean, I'm playing golf, you know, it's a pretty good thing.  I feel good.  It's not like I'm worn down or tired.   
  
  Q.  One of the things that's obviously been hyped up all year was FedExCup and playoffs and so forth.  Not a whole lot made of the Fall Series, but obviously these are significant events for people trying to get their cards for next year.  Touch on the Fall Series.   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  Well, you know, every tournament out here is significant, whether or not it's included in the Cup deal or not.  You know, you've got tournaments like Texas that's the third oldest tournament on the PGA tour.  That means a lot more to me than -- the history and the tradition of that and the people that played that golf tournament than anything that's made up, created drama.   
  
  Q.  You are playing for your card.  You're a pro and you've been through this before, but does it weigh on your mind every shot?  Not at all?  What's the mental state?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  Honestly, it doesn't even come into play.  Those thoughts don't come into it when you're out there on the golf course.  You're just out there playing another round.  It's another shot.  Those golf clubs don't know where are.  This golf course doesn't know who's playing.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  Yeah, I think it's something that you have to learn.  I mean, that's -- you know, that's direct quote and Jackie Burke.  You know, this is just old information, but it's also new information to a lot of people.   
  
  Q.  (No microphone.)   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  No.  No, wouldn't even ask.   
  
  Q.  We've gotten a lot of rain the past few days.  How were the conditions out there today?   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  Real sloppy.  The greens are holding up beautifully, though.  The fairways are just chewed.  Footprints from the deer walking across the fairways last night are still there.   
 Not a whole -- I mean, there's a little bit of casual still, but just real sloppy.  That's why we're putting the ball in (indiscernible), which was a great decision on the TOUR's part.   
 DOUG MILNE:  If we could just run through your birdies real quick.   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  No. 1, hit sand wedge in there and what, 10, 12 feet.   
 No. 5, trying to think what 5 is.  That long Par 4.  Pin's tucked into the left and the wind is blowing straight into the left and I hit a beautiful 7-iron in there to about 7, 8 feet again.   
 7 is the Par 5, which plays dead into the wind.  That left pin, hit a beautiful wedge in there 6 feet left of the hole, which was straight uphill.   
 9 I hit -- it's one of the two fairways I missed today.  Hit a beautiful knock-down 7-iron out of the rough to hit it right next to the hole and right over that green, and I was very lucky because I wasn't that far from the water back there.  Hit a beautiful wedge shot and just misread that putt to make birdie.   
 On 11, which was the first Par 5 we played, again, kind of into the wind.  Couldn't think about going at that green.  Hit a full pitching wedge in there probably 12 feet right of the hole.  I was pin high all day.   
 Then the next Par 4, on No. 13, I hit -- played downwind and I hit wedge in there dead pin high 15, 18 feet.   
 16, hit that Par 5 in two with a 2-iron, kind of downwind left to right there.  That fairway was extremely hard to hit, and both of guys I was playing with Lucas and Chris, just missed that fairway, and I hit it in the first cut.   
 I was able to get 2-iron on it, and they both hit -- they were closer to the hole than I was but they were playing you just out of the rough and couldn't think about hitting the green.   
 17, 4-iron to probably, what, 45 feet right in the middle of green and made that putt.  It was almost a dead straight putt from 45 feet.  You know, I didn't see anything, didn't play anything, and the ball stayed straight.  So that was pretty cool.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Okay.  As always, we appreciate your time.  It's good to have you back in.   
 FRANK LICKLITER II:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT