FUNAI CLASSIC AT THE WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 22, 2006
Frank Lickliter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
You pretty much had to go green light, mash the pedal to get back into this ball game all day.
FRANK LICKLITER II:  It might have looked that way, but I was out there having fun, hitting some good shots.  I could hit the ball where I was looking.  That's always a good thing.
Q.  When did you feel you were right in the thick of this thing?
FRANK LICKLITER II:  I never felt I was in the thick of it, because there's so many holes left to play.  I'm finished, Vijay is finished, and there's still so much golf left to play.  Even though I grabbed the lead, I don't feel like I'm leading.
Q.  After Milwaukee, things have really turned around for you.  Talk about basics, but is it something you've done with your swing, is it more mental adjustments?
FRANK LICKLITER II:  The mental side, it's golf.  I just try to keep it simple.  With my swing, yes, I spent a couple of years getting into some bad information, and now I'm back to hitting everything solid.  And playing my driver, I like a little fade.  I'm not trying to hit perfect golf shots.  I'm not trying to be the perfect golfer, I'm just out there playing my game.  And right now my game is good enough.
Q.  The way you roll, you really don't have to be perfect golfer tee to green, do you?
FRANK LICKLITER II:  Yes.  I hit a lot of fairways.  I think I hit 11 today, 13 yesterday, which is good around this place.  But I've been driving the hell out of the ball.  I got a brand new driver.  But my clubs were stolen on a flight.
Q.  When was this?
FRANK LICKLITER II:  This was when I started really playing.  It was after Milwaukee.  So then I had to go back in and revamp, recreate my whole set.  They stole the putter I won with.  It's gone.  They stole the prototype driver that I had been playing for a year, which I really liked.

Going through the process, I couldn't get a set.  Then it took me about four or five weeks to really get it dialed in.  Then I put that driver in with that new Z shaft and a 905 head, which I hadn't been playing.  I was playing, like I said, a prototype.  I put that Titleist 905 in and all of a sudden I picked up 20 yards and hit it damn straight.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT