SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 22, 2004
Frank Lickliter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRIS REIMER:  Frank Lickliter, 4-under 68 today, two time winner on the PGA TOUR.  How's the course playing differently this year than it played for you last year?
FRANK LICKLITER:  The greens have settled in a little bit, they're receptive to shots this year.  You hit an iron shot in there and they don't go bouncing off the back, so it's nice.  The course is maturing and it's getting more fun.
Q.  How bad is the wind?
FRANK LICKLITER:  You've got to pay attention to it.  It's a day when you're not playing the targets, you're playing the wind.  The wind is the target today because it's blowing the ball.  It's moving the ball substantially.
CHRIS REIMER:  You tied for 3rd at the Players Championship.  Is something clicking in your game right now.
FRANK LICKLITER:  Yeah, I'm starting to settle in.  My stats have started to show all the work that I've put into my game the last two years, and we're just kind of fine-tuning some things right now.  I saw Mr. Burke on Monday and I worked with Randy Sonnier Monday and Tuesday.  I drove it really well last week and couldn't get an iron on the planet.  I spent a couple hours with Randy and a couple little adjustments and I really started hitting my irons close to the hole without messing up my driving.  I'm still driving it extremely well, so that's always a good thing.
Q.  Is this the kind of course where you could see yourself having a breakthrough this week?
FRANK LICKLITER:  Have a what?
Q.  Breakthrough this week.
FRANK LICKLITER:  Breaking through what?
Q.  Winning.
FRANK LICKLITER:  Well, yeah, I can see myself winning on this golf course.  It would be great to win here for my third win.  You know, the fans are awesome.  There's quite a few guys out today.

But yeah, it's a wonderful golf course.  It's long, it's challenging, the visuals are impressive.  You've got to be careful with some of your lines sometimes because it's not where you want to hit it, what it looks like.  I think Jake did a really good job with that.  That's one of the things that makes this golf course hard.  It's not that there's not room, he just makes it look like there's not room.

So yeah, I'm just looking forward to playing well.
CHRIS REIMER:  Is there anything with your practice rounds that maybe you felt you had it all together this week.
FRANK LICKLITER:  You know, just working, and I had a couple of good lessons.
CHRIS REIMER:  Can we quickly go through your birdies and bogeys.
FRANK LICKLITER:  2, hit gap wedge to probably 8 feet.

3, I hit 3-iron to 10 feet.

9, I hit wedge to about 8 feet.

10, I was on the front right fringe and bumped a little 8-iron into the hole from probably 30 feet.

14, I hit it three feet.

7, I drove it in the right rough and had to pitch out.  That was the only bogey I made today, and for the most part I was never in danger of making bogey except for maybe 16.  I hit a good bunker shot out to about eight feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT