U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 6, 2020
Marissa Kirkwood
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Would be there any key holes or big clutch birdies you had?
 MARISSA KIRKWOOD:   I would say No. 6, the par 3, because the par 5 before that, she made a nice birdie, and I parred, so the match went back to all-square, and then I had probably 25 feet for birdie, and I made that putt and just from there, just my game started kicking in and made a lot of putts.
 But the most important thing is I gave myself a lot of opportunities at good looks so I could be a little aggressive with my putting and I was able to make some.
 Q. You used your good play in stroke play and transferring it to match play, did it feel the same out there?
 MARISSA KIRKWOOD:   Yeah, for the most part it was the same.  Like I said yesterday, you're still playing the golf course, and at the end of the hole, yeah, you're comparing your score relative to the person next to you but you can't get caught up in exactly what they are doing, what they are hitting because you lose sight of your process and the things that you have to do to putt yourself in the best position to make the best of pars, or just a lot of shots coming in like that.  Sticking to my process, my game plan, and hopefully that's enough to beat the other person.
 Q. On to the round of 32.  What's the mind-set going into tomorrow, and is there any aspect of the game that you want to improve?
 MARISSA KIRKWOOD:   I think the mind-set is the same.  Still playing the golf course.  Still going out there and trying to execute my game plan.  I would like to hit a few more fairways just to give myself a little better chances to go at some pins.  Yeah, other than that, just same thing, going through my process.
 Q. What's been your favorite part of the week so far?
 MARISSA KIRKWOOD:   I mean, just playing -- this golf course is amazing.  It's in such great shape with how much rain we've had, and it's such a fun golf course to play.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT