AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 18, 2013
Tamira Paszek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. WOZNIACKI/T. Paszek
  6‑2, 2‑2 [Ret.] 
  
THE MODERATOR: Tamira had to retire with a left thigh injury.   
   
 Q.   Was it the same problem you had in Nottingham?  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   No.   It's the other leg, actually.   I can't say really much about the injury just now.   I just have to do a couple more scans and analyze with the doctor.  
Right now all I can say is it's like really, really painful.   Well, I'm going to try my very best to get ready for Wimbledon and try to be positive.  
   
 Q.   Did it happen during the match?  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   Yeah, it happened at 1‑All.   I stretched a bit too much on the backhand side and actually heard a huge noise, which isn't usually a good sign.   
It was a sudden pain.   I immediately called the trainer.   I actually won that game, played like three winners on one leg.  
Yeah, I knew I wasn't going to be able to continue.  
   
 Q.   Very disappointing‑‑  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   It is.  
   
 Q.   ‑‑ after you did so well here last year.   
TAMIRA PASZEK:   It is.   It's been a very tough and rough year till now, a lot of injuries.   I have been struggling with bronchitis and like a chest infection, a virus, for the past two months.   I'm going to get that checked, as well.  
So we just get to the point where we realize we are just human beings and health is more important than the sport.   It's disappointing moments, but I will try to overcome them.  
   
 Q.   You have got a lot of ranking points to defend during this particular period.   Does that add any pressure?   Obviously this injury isn't ideal for that.   
TAMIRA PASZEK:   Well, I cannot change the situation, anyhow.   So ranking points, the last thing I thought about today or even yesterday or in the next couple of weeks.  
I won the tournament here, played quarters in Wimbledon.   I'm going to try my best to even go on court in Wimbledon, try to get ready.  
If not, if it doesn't work out, try to get healthy after that and make a new start.   There is nothing else I can do about it.  
   
 Q.   Will you head straight into London today?  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   No, I will be here until Saturday.   I have my family here.   Just relax.   I cannot practice today and tomorrow, so we'll see.   Maybe after the scan I will know a couple more things.  
   
 Q.   More time to walk the dog?  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   I don't think walking is a good idea now.   I'm struggling walking.   (Smiling.)  
No, I think a lot of lying around and resting, icing, watching some movies, just try to get my mind a bit in the right place, because I have been really sad and really disappointed today.  
So it's going to take a couple hours.  
   
 Q.   Are you someone who likes to watch tennis while you're injured on TV?  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   While I'm injured, no.   I think that's even more depressing.   I'm just going to watch some crime‑scene movies or something where I have to think about something else.   That's probably more of a good plan now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT