ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 7, 2012
Tamira Paszek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. PASZEK/J. Goerges
  6‑2, 6‑1 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   So what do you think made the difference today?  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   I knew Julia is a very solid player.   She plays very aggressive, serves very well.   For me the most important thing was I went out there focused on my game and tried to be aggressive but also tried to be patient and, you know, just keep the ball in the rally and tried to win the point.  
   
 Q.   Now your reward for playing so well is a game against Azarenka.   How are you going to deal with that?  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   I've played her a couple of times before, and I know Azarenka from juniors as well.   We have known each other for a long time.   No. 1 player in the world, great competitor, really tough to play.   
But I had a good match against her in Wimbledon, and, you know, it's Montreal, it's a new tournament.   I feel great here, I feel like home.   I have great memories of 2008, so I will try to enjoy every moment out there and give my best.     
   
 Q.   When you saw how the draw unfolded, do you think it was like a tough break, Goerges and then Azarenka?  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   Actually I never look at draws, so I just found out by my coach when I was in the gym recovering that I play Azarenka next.   
Just try to ‑‑well, I prefer going match by match, you know, just try to focus on each opponent and each game.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it might be an advantage since she came back from London like yesterday, I think, and it's been high emotions for her lately?  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   I mean, definitely.   She had such a great year this year, you know, such a great run.   
I have been here since Wednesday afternoon practicing, preparing on hard courts, so I have definitely had a couple of more practice sessions on the hard court.   
I had a match today, but, you know, every match is different.   I'll just try to keep focused on my game and be aggressive out there.  
   
 Q.   Is it an easy transition going from grass to the hard courts?  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   You know, we're used to it for a couple of years now.   It's always a new challenge, different feeling, different sensations going on.   To be honest, I didn't feel that great the last few days practicing.   I had a couple of ups and downs and I wasn't too happy with the way I felt the ball.  
Sometimes it's good to be critical, go out there and keep your mind on the right things, and that's what happened today.   I'm really happy with the performance.  
   
 Q.   You have the London Olympic Games shirt on.   Can you describe that experience, what it was like?  
TAMIRA PASZEK:   It was a very special moment for me, especially after waiting for a couple of weeks if yes or no am I gonna play or not.   
So finally I was in London, I was at the opening ceremony, stayed at the Village.   It was an incredible feeling to be part of the London 2012 Olympic Games.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT