AEGON INTERNATIONAL
June 22, 2012
Tamira Paszek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. PASZEK/M. Bartoli
  4‑6, 7‑5, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   So how were the conditions out there?
TAMIRA PASZEK:   (Smiling.)   Kind of interesting.   Played a windy match in Hobart once, but this, I think, is unbeatable for the rest of my career. 
It was very, very tough conditions.   I just had to try to keep moving, keep focus, and just try to stay in front of the line or like shortly behind the baseline. 
That's what my coach tried to tell me when he came out on court.   He's like, You're stepping back too much.   Just try to be in there, play aggressive, and play your game.

Q.   Is it difficult not to get frustrated?
TAMIRA PASZEK:   I was actually pretty calm.   I was surprised.   I think we were so many times stopping, starting.   I felt my hands were freezing cold like all through the match.
It was weird to keep going and to get warm, but I wasn't frustrated with the way it is.   You know, the weather was that way.   You cannot change Mother Nature.   For that reason, I just tried to keep focus on every point.

Q.   Down a set and 4‑love.   What happened?
TAMIRA PASZEK:   I think it sounds pretty clear but it wasn't, actually.   We played a pretty good set in the first set towards the end of the set when I came back, when I started playing more aggressive.
Second set couple of close games.   I had my chances, built up the point very nicely and then just like‑‑ you know, with the wind, few things weren't working out.   I just tried to stay there.   I knew I was at the same level, and I just had to wait for my chances.   Chances came.

Q.   How does it feel to be in a final of a big tournament like this?
TAMIRA PASZEK:   It feels amazing.   I love Eastbourne.   My whole family lives here, like my godparents live here.   For me, it feels already like home.   It's a pleasure coming back every year.   It's my second time, and it's just a wonderful feeling.

Q.   You had a great Wimbledon.   What is it about grass that an Austrian likes?
TAMIRA PASZEK:   I don't know.   We have pretty green country at home.   Probably that.
No,   I don't know.   It just suits my game pretty well, same as hard court.   I love fast surfaces.   I just enjoy the grass.   It's a special atmosphere to come here and have the different shoes and all in white.   It's just a lovely atmosphere.

Q.   What does it do for the confidence, obviously ahead of such a big tournament like Wimbledon next week, as well.   Puts you into such a big spotlight now. 
TAMIRA PASZEK:   It actually does.   It was a pretty interesting year for me until now.   Coming into Eastbourne tournament, I won two matches this year and was not really high in confidence, I'd say.   I had a lot of injuries. 
First two weeks I was able to practice continuously, Strasbourg and during French Open, so I knew I had to keep working and do my job.   Also knew it wouldn't happen a miracle and would not just come in a day or two. 
Now we have been working a lot with my coach and all different kind of things, fitness, game.   It's just lovely to be back on court and healthy and not injured and just winning matches, as well, of course.

Q.   Looks like you will be playing Angelique.   What do you make of that?
TAMIRA PASZEK:   I mean, I don't know what the score is right now.   I think a set and 2‑1.   I know both of them.   I played Klara once before.   I haven't played Kerber before. 
So it's a final tomorrow.   I mean, I don't know how the weather conditions gonna be tomorrow.   I will just try to go out there and enjoy every moment. 
I love Eastbourne.   I love the people here.   The fans were amazing.   It's an amazing feeling to be back in the final.

Q.   How long have you been working with Andrei?
TAMIRA PASZEK:   We started in Indian Wells, and then I had pretty much the whole next two‑and‑a‑half months with an injury, back injury, which kept me away from playing for a while and then the results weren't there.
We started again working the week before French Open, which was Strasbourg, actually the week before where I was ill.   But we started before French Open again.

Q.   Not long, but what has he managed to help you with?
TAMIRA PASZEK:   He's a great guy.   He's so positive.   He has so much experience.   He just believes in me, and all he does is‑‑ well, he's just saying, you know, You have to believe in yourself, you have to go out there, you have the game, you have the shots.   That's what it's all about. 
You know, in practice it's been working.   Matches, I was a bit tight, a bit nervous, not a lot of confidence because I hadn't won a lot of matches this year, so it just all fitted together.
We have been working great on my technique and stuff, being aggressive on court.   So it's just coming together slowly.

Q.   How did you link up with him?
TAMIRA PASZEK:   I knew him from the tour when he was playing already.   We always greeted each other, knew him when he was working with Jelena for a couple of months.   Played Jelena in Charleston last year when he was there.
So we've always, you know, like known each other.   I just gave him a call, when was it, December.   He wasn't sure what he was doing with his academy and all this.   Indian Wells we gave it a try and really worked out and we're both really happy.

Q.   What were your injuries?
TAMIRA PASZEK:   I had a wrist injury after Dubai which was pretty tough.   Indian Wells I won a match with it, but I couldn't hold the racquet any more.   That got better. 
Then two days later in Indian Wells I had an accident in the gym and hurt my back, was in the hospital for a couple of hours, and they didn't know what was going on.   Said it might be a stress fracture.   Was actually a bone bruise.   It was a whole long story.
Then the doctor said I shouldn't play for the next one or two months.   Then it was just like a lot going on.   Once I started practicing again, I got the same tendon inflammation on my wrist on the left side, so it just kept me off working, actually.
So that's been my year until now.   Now I'm healthy, playing well, so I'm really happy.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT