ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 31, 2008
Tamira Paszek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  T. PASZEK/A. Ivanovic  
6-2, 1-6, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. You mentioned on court how you didn't expect this. Now that you've had more time to absorb it, how unexpected is this?   
 TAMIRA PASZEK: You know, I had a pretty tough time the last six months. I didn't win one match in four months. Last week in L.A. I won my first match after four months. Lost in the second round. I was improving a little bit.   
 This tournament here, three rounds in a row, I think it's around eight months ago that I managed that. So it feels pretty good actually. I know I was prepared for the match and everything, but going out there against Ana, she's such a great person, and we really get along well. We grew up together actually. Played juniors. Played a couple of years ago against each other.   
 It was tough. I felt a bit of pressure, as I like her a lot. Was tough to find the concentration out there.   
  
  Q. How do you explain the change here after struggling for so long?   
 TAMIRA PASZEK: I started working with Larri Passos again after the French Open. So we've been working seven weeks now, last three weeks almost seven hours per day. For me the most important thing was to improve my fitness again. I was in horrible shape when I started with him again. I couldn't play four balls in a row.   
 He managed to get me back on track and to make me enjoy the game again.   
  
  Q. When you realized you had won, describe what went through your mind.   
 TAMIRA PASZEK: The first thing I was thinking about, Well, girl, you made it. It's over now. The second thing was the first top 10 player I beat in my life. I had a lot of chances before, played some great matches. Was my first night match I won in my career. So there were a lot of first times today.   
 But the only thing I said was, Thanks. I don't know why, but I managed it.   
  
  Q. Now you have to believe you have a legitimate chance of doing special at this tournament.   
 TAMIRA PASZEK: Well, I mean, now it's time to forget the match today. It was a great feeling out there. I had unbelievable time. The public was great. But now it's time to focus on tomorrow's match, you know, get some rest, have some massage treatment, go to bed, just try to relax and stay focused on the tournament.   
  
  Q. Did you realize that Ana was having trouble with her thumb? She said she thought you played to her forehand.   
 TAMIRA PASZEK: Actually, I didn't even have an idea till today lunchtime when I read the journal of who's playing today, whatever. I read she has some problems with her right thumb. Then I saw the tape during the match.   
 But I did not even think about it, where to play. I mean, it was my game plan how to start the point, how I should approach this match. So I just went in there and tried to be aggressive, didn't think about her injury.   
  
  Q. The pace on your ball was so much stronger than hers.   
 TAMIRA PASZEK: Well, I had to be aggressive out there. That's what I've been in the first set. It really worked out. Second set, she stepped in a lot in the court. She tried to take the advantage and stay in the court. So I was a little bit like in the defense, not really knowing because I missed a lot of defense shots. Tried to get focused again in the third set and take the advantage and step in the court again. Because if I don't play aggressive against her...   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT