ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY NATIONAL BANK
July 28, 2008
Tamira Paszek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  T. PASZEK/F. Schiavone
7-6, 1-6, 6-1

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. I know you've been at Wimbledon before and stuff like that, but have you ever had a rain delay like this before? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK: Not really. I mean, my rain delay in Wimbledon was last year against Dementieva. We started the match on Saturday. Sunday no play in Wimbledon. So we finished Monday. 
 But going on and off court four times is a pretty new experience for me (smiling). 

 Q. How do you stay focused when something like that happens? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK: Well, that's a tough question actually. I mean, the first time really coming off the court, I went to the gym, it was only 20 minutes. Second delay was also short one. The fourth one was pretty long. I was reading a book, tried to relax, stay calm. Warm up again and try to be focused. 

 Q. Is that what happened in the second set there a little bit? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK: Yeah, well, she changed her game. She played more aggressive in the second set. And also after the first rain delay at 5-3 in the first set, I went back on court, and I was totally unfocused. I didn't move my legs any more, stopped playing my game, wasn't aggressive. Was too far back behind the court. So that's what I tried to change. 
 My coach almost wanted to kill me after this match, like, How is it possible 5-1 in the first set, winning 7-6, lose 6-1, and the third one I win 6-1. He said, That's woman's tennis. And it's true (laughter). Everything's possible. 

 Q. You lost to her in the first round here last year, in Toronto. 
 TAMIRA PASZEK: I think she's the player I played her most times. Yeah, it was like this. I lost last year in Toronto, three sets. Beat her the week after at the US Open. Lost at Wimbledon 10-8 in the third this year. Now I played again three sets. 
 So I think both of us have really, really a tough match always playing each other. 

 Q. I was looking at your record. You have a lot of tough three-set matches. 
 TAMIRA PASZEK: I do (smiling). But that's what makes me strong, you know, hanging out there, try to stay focused and keep fighting all the time. I had a tough six months, didn't play so well. Had a coach change at the end of the year. That kind of disturbed my game a little bit. 
 Now I'm back with my old coach, Larri Passos. All this influenced me a lot the last six months. I'm really happy to be back on track. Every match I can win three sets or not three sets, it's even more important. 

 Q. Sure you'd rather do a little less than seven hours, though. 
 TAMIRA PASZEK: Yeah, I hope so Wednesday, that it's a little less than seven hours (laughter). 

 Q. Your father spent some time in Canada, is that right? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK: He lived in Toronto for 15 years. He worked at Movenpick. He was bakery chef there. Well, he came here when he was I think 18 or 20. He lived there for 15 years. He has the Canadian passport. Also my brother has the Austrian and Canadian. He's 10. Me, I just have the Austrian. Didn't get the Canadian. 

 Q. So you're almost a home player?
 TAMIRA PASZEK: All my relatives live in Calgary and Toronto and also here in Montréal. All my father's cousins, uncles, the whole family lives around here. 

 Q. So did you have people here tonight for you?
 TAMIRA PASZEK: Today no. Toronto last year, every day. I hope they will come to see me this week.

 Q. Can you tell us what book you were reading?
 TAMIRA PASZEK: It's a German book. It's called - well, translated - Between Heaven and Love. It brought me luck. I mean, it's keeping me calm, keeping me relaxed, so... Maybe tomorrow again. 

 Q. Better not finish it?
 TAMIRA PASZEK: No, not yet. Still around 350 pages remaining. It's just the beginning. I'm still at the heaven part, not yet at the love part. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT