WIMBLEDON
July 2, 2007
Tamira Paszek
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  Final point of the match, any of nerves? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  I mean, it started raining and I tried to keep focused on my game, tried to win the first point in that game.  It was quite important to me. 
 Then I was so motivated, I just went for it. 

 Q.  So no nerves? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  Not at all actually.  I mean, what to do?  It starts drizzling.  You're serving 5-3 in the third set.  Why to get nervous?  Keep focused and try to play your game.  You cannot change it anyway. 

 Q.  Were you worried the rain would interrupt it?  It started coming down heavy right at the end. 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  It was 30-Love, so I just hoped that we could finish. 

 Q.  Did you come into Wimbledon with any expectations? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  Not at all.  I never do any expectations before a tournament.  I just go there, try to perform my best, and be happy with my performance. 

 Q.  The match was stopped.  Can you tell us, did you talk to Larri?  Did he give you some advice how to play her? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  Definitely.  You have two days' time to think about everything.  I went with him in the locker room, in the gym, you know.  We just tried to talk, yeah, keep our tactic for the next few days. 

 Q.  So you changed it? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  I tried to change it.  It was pretty tough.  You know, she's one of the best competitors on the tour.  She's a great fighter.  I respect her a lot.  She has probably the best baseline game on the tour. 
 So I knew I need to run, I need to move, I need to play my best tennis to win that match.  That's what I tried to keep focused on in these two days. 

 Q.  Have you always had a killer backhand? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  Well, I wasn't born like that.  I keep working hard on all my strokes, my serve, my forehand.  I try to improve it day to day. 

 Q.  How did you manage to stay relaxed for those two days?  Did you go out somewhere, get away? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  Not at all.  Just got up late in the morning, had some good breakfast, watched a DVD, just tried to relax. 

 Q.  The backhand down the line, it's a shot you don't see too much from very young players.  It's one of your best shots.  How did you develop that and how long has it been a big weapon for you? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  I don't know.  Everybody said before when I was younger, I mean, when I was smaller, younger, that the backhand is one of my best shots.  Everybody was complaining about my forehand, it's not good, it's not that, you need to work on that. 
 But I just tried not to listen to them, you know, well, work on my game, try to improve day to day.  That's how it should work. 

 Q.  Is this the biggest win of your career? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  It's probably the biggest tournament I've reached so far.  I mean, it's unbelievable for me, such a great experience to play all these top players, you know. 
 And actually it's the first time I am in a big interview room, so it's also new experience for me.  But I'm pretty happy I made it through (smiling). 

 Q.  Can you talk about your background as a player, when you started player, who encouraged you to play? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  I started when I was four and a half.  My mom was playing in a club, like was one of her favorite hobbies.  My dad never played before.  He was a squash trainer.  I always sat on the referee's chair watching my mom playing.  One day I decided, well, I want to try it out.  I really liked it. 
 I did a lot of things when I was younger, playing the piano, riding horse.  But tennis, it stayed with me because I just loved the sport.  It's that what I wanted to do. 

 Q.  Obviously you've gotten good very quickly.  When did you know you were going to be a very good player? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  There was no point it turned around.  I just -- I don't know.  I never said when I was small, I want to become a tennis pro, whatever.  I had so much fun traveling, playing, competing hard with other players, working hard on the court, so I stayed with that. 

 Q.  You got to the finals of the juniors here.  How much had you played on grass before that? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  Before I reached the final 2005, I just played Roehampton, the junior tournament, and I lost first round.  So I came here, I was not too confident, but I love the grass game.  Wimbledon is one of my favorite tournaments.  Actually it's my favorite Grand Slam.  I have a lot of memories, great experience here. 
 So, yeah, just the whole atmosphere.  I'm happy to be here. 

 Q.  Could you tell us about your camp.  You always looked to them with your fists.  You're very close? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  Definitely.  I mean, I work with my coach for one and a half years now.  My dad was sitting in there.  It's just my supporting team.  They help me a lot. 

 Q.  How did you get in touch with Larri Passos? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  He was one of the guys I was looking for, you know, a coach with a very big heart, big focus.  You know, he's working really hard day to day.  We are many hours on the court.  Yeah, he can push you over the limit. 

 Q.  How did you meet him? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  I contacted him.  My dad contacted him.  He came to Austria for a few days in November 2006.  That's where it started. 

 Q.  Elena must have caught an awful lot of balls today, service tosses.  Did you find that distracting at all? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  Not at all.  I practiced around 300 serves in the last two days, like returns.  So I was prepared for that.  I know she's a top player, you know, and her focus is all the time there.  Mine has to be, too. 
 I was ready for that. 

 Q.  Even if you were to talk away now, you'd take a check with you for nearly $100,000.  What does that mean to you?  Do you have any treats planned for you? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  Actually I didn't know that yet.  Secondly, I don't play for the money.  I'm 16.  I just play because I love the game.  It's so much fun to me. 
 The money, I have enough time.  I need to develop my game and just keep working hard on myself.  If that improves, the money will be there later on when I'm old also. 

 Q.  You say you have a lot of memories about Wimbledon.  Which are these memories?  Some players you saw? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  No, definitely that it was my first Grand Slam where I reached the final in the juniors.  It suits my game, you know.  The whole atmosphere here in Wimbledon, it's so special.  The strawberries with cream, playing all in white, the grass courts, covering, uncovering the courts, rain delays, rain delays.  Just everything is so special. 
 It's one tournament in the year.  I think you need to enjoy, yeah, every moment. 

 Q.  Any players which were idols of yours, someone you wanted to imitate? 
 TAMIRA PASZEK:  I never wanted to imitate anyone.  I respect many, many players, and I admire a lot of players.  Also Elena Dementieva, she's a great player.  Also Roger Federer.  I love his game on grass.  I think everybody does. 
 In total, I just want to be my own, yeah, have my own style of game. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT