NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2014
Adreian Payne
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   If you could start opening statements about being drafted by the Hawks, please.   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   First of all, thank God and the organization for drafting me because, without them, I wouldn't be here.   
I'm just excited about getting out there and getting in the city and playing with the guys and just getting out there really and see what the city has to offer.   
   
 Q.   Adreian, I have to tell you, I like the bowtie.   It kind of goes with the Outkast kind of feel, them being from Atlanta.   A little synergy there.   Can you tell me what went into your draft day kind of preparation, and maybe Outkast maybe will be a little jealous with your outfit on.   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   Can you clear that up a little bit?  
   
 Q.   What I was saying was can you tell me the preparation for your outfit, what goes into that?   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   It really has a meaning behind it.   I wore this for the‑‑ dedicated to Lacey Holsworth, and it's the color of her cancer that she had, leukemia, and I wear a band every day.   As you can see, the band is the same color as the suit.   
So that's why I wore it and that's where I got my inspiration from.   
   
 Q.   Adreian, the Hawks are a team that love to have their bigs spread out based on the floor.   That seems like it would be a great fit for you.   Are you excited to get out there in an offense that gets you out there spacing around the arc?   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   Yeah, I'm very excited that I can continue to play my game and stretch the floor and play inside and out.  
   
 Q.   Adreian, first of all, congratulations.   Paul Millsap, Al Horford, Kyle Korver, Jeff Teague, those are some pretty good guys.   Are you ready to compete at that level?   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   Yeah, of course.   It's great I'm able to be around some great guys and guys that compete at a high level.   I can look up to them, and they can show me the ropes.   I'm just ready to get out there so I can compete.  
   
 Q.   They were a playoff team this year.   Are they going to be a playoff team next year?   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   I don't see why not.  
   
 Q.   Have you had any conversations with Coach Mike Budenholzer yet?   If so, what was involved in them?   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   No, I haven't had any yet.   I haven't contacted him yet, and he hasn't contacted me yet.   Eventually, he'll be calling, and I'll be excited to talk to him.   
   
 Q.   So I was here in November when you scored 29 points against Virginia Tech way back at one of the tip‑off tournaments.   So tell me what this year has been like for you.   Obviously, you mentioned Lacey, which is a big part of what you've been about.   What's changed since then, and what's the same?   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   Really, everything's the same.   I have got better as a person, better patience, and have got stronger from it, just from losing close people in my life.   
So like I said, she always inspired me to be able to fight through adversity and continue to never give up.   
   
 Q.   Gary Harris still has not been drafted yet.   Was there a little competition between you guys to see who would be drafted first?   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   No, not at all.   We're both teammates, and we're very close friends.   I look at him like a little brother, and he looks at me like a brother.   I wish I could be out there to see where he went and be out there to support him.   Eventually, once this is over with, you know, we're going to talk and continue to share wisdom and just talk.   
   
 Q.   We talked yesterday about Tom Izzo, the highest paid public employee in the state of Michigan.   Has he called you and let you know that you can outearn him next year?   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   Yeah, we always talk.   He's a great guy.   He's always giving me information so I can get better.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to mention your compensation will dwarf his next year?   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   Like I said, they're going to be a great team, and he's a great coach.   I'm looking forward to seeing them get into the tournament.  
   
 Q.   You grew up in the Midwest.   Is this kind of the excitement tonight, leaving the Midwest?  
ADREIAN PAYNE:   I'm leaving the Midwest, but it's always going to be a part of me.  
   
 Q.   What are you going to bring from Michigan State to Atlanta?   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   Like I said, from Michigan State, we have a toughness, the players that leave there, and I'm going to just bring toughness, hard work, and I'm going to play hard every game and in practice.  
   
 Q.   Adreian, you talked about the competitiveness of the Hawks.   Talk about schematically the Spurs system, with Coach Mike Budenholzer.   Talk about how your skill set could fit in that.   
ADREIAN PAYNE:   It's definitely going to help, playing into my strengths, just being able to be team oriented and not just relying on one guy to go out and do everything as a team‑oriented game.   It's not just offense, it's definitely defense.   
And defense like at Michigan State, coaches always say defense wins championships.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT