NL WILD CARD GAME: CARDINALS v BRAVES
October 4, 2012
Kyle Lohse
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Glad to see you're so tense.   
KYLE LOHSE:   Yeah, I need to loosen up a little bit.   I've been told I'm too nervous, and you know (laughing).  
   
 Q.   (No Audio)?  
KYLE LOHSE:   It was yesterday, yeah, so it's all right.   You can update it.  
   
 Q.   Kyle, what do you think tomorrow will be like compared to the past postseason games you pitched in?   
KYLE LOHSE:   It's going to be fun.   I know that.   Being that it's a winner‑moves‑on kind of a situation that I think just kind of adds to the intensity and fun of the situation.   I'm not putting any more pressure on myself to go out there and do anything other than what I've done all year.   
I've had a pretty successful year and been consistent with my approach, my preparation, and I'm going to stick to that.   It's been working for me.   We're just going to keep to that.  
   
 Q.   How would you weigh what you're going to do tomorrow with what you did in Philadelphia last year?   Obviously, you threw the first game of the postseason.   You're going to do it again here.   Maybe there are a few more chips on the table tomorrow just because there are other games.   But do you even weigh one against the other?   Do you look at it differently?   
KYLE LOHSE:   To me, it's a new year, new situation.   You know, last year coming into the playoffs was a little different situation for me.   Having pitched periodically, I just felt differently going into that start than the confidence that I've got going into this one.   So I feel like I take each start in of itself.   I don't base things going into it on anything other than what I'm prepared to do, and I don't look at the start early in the year against these guys.   
I mean, I look at it, and see the things that I did and what I can improve on.   But I don't think all year really I've carried any one start in on another, and I don't see why I take a start from last year into this one.   
   
 Q.   That was my question about the one start you made against them.   You don't look at that too much?   
KYLE LOHSE:   I look at the film and some of the things I did.   Immediately after that start, I changed a couple of things.   I just kind of thought maybe a couple of hitters might have known some things that were coming.   And immediately I feel like after that I had a good April, rough May, and I think after that I was really consistent throughout until the end of the year.   
I did look at it.   Saw some things.   Saw some things I'd like to change.   Some things I'd lying to do more of, and, you know, got a good game plan.  
   
 Q.   How much, particularly with the guys that were around for last year, the holdovers, that experience of what you went through last October, how did that help you all now coming into a pressure‑packed game like tomorrow will be?   
KYLE LOHSE:   I think it helps tremendously.   That experience of a lot of the guys with me in that clubhouse experienced last year from being ten and a half back and a lot of people kind of saying go get them next year to making it down to the final day.   Each game was very important, and we kind of took that same approach that Mike was talking about of each day, play it as hard as you can and don't worry about the next day.   
I think it helped us mature a lot and grow a lot as individuals and learn how to handle big situations like the one that's going to be coming up tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How would you compare and/or contrast working a whole season with Derek rather than just a couple of months last year?   
KYLE LOHSE:   Said it all year he wasn't going to come in and change things drastically.   You're not going to take something that's not broke.   We've got the same philosophy, trying to get ahead of guys, trying to get the ball down in the zone, get as many groundballs as possible.   
He's basically done the same thing all this year that he did in the couple month span that he took over for Dunk last year I feel like he's done a great job helping me prepare, doing the things I need to do you know.   I'm not saying that you don't miss Dunk, but he's done a great job of coming in and taking over and doing a good job.   Obviously, we do miss Dunk's presence, but it is what it is.  
   
 Q.   Sounds like you were tipping a little bit last time.   Is that something you picked up on yourself or a teammate?   
KYLE LOHSE:   Throughout the year, every year, I kind of change certain thing I do with my hands mechanically.   After that game I started going over my head instead of holding my hands in and out front of me.   I don't know if that had much of a difference for real or maybe just a mental thing.   But it seemed to work a little bit.  
   
 Q.   (No Audio) would you agree with that consistently from top to bottom?   
KYLE LOHSE:   Yes.   It's been a good year.   I felt like last year had a lot of good things that I accomplished.   This year was just that consistency you strive for day‑in, and day‑out.   I had a couple of bad games here and there.   But the ability to bounce back and not let that carryover, those are things that I'm proud of.   To be able to accomplish this year and just put together a full, solid year.  
   
 Q.   (No Audio)?  
KYLE LOHSE:   You learn more about yourself.   Early on in my career I threw harder, tried to strike guys out through four seamers.   Hitters love those.   I realized what kind of pitcher I should be after coming over and working with Dunk.   Then he had the '09 and '10 season where I was struggling with injuries and trying to to figure out what was going on.   I feel like had that not happened, I feel like it would have consistently been good for the five years that I've been in St. Louis, and kind of this year was a culmination of what I've been working for and trying to do.   I think that just comes with the experience and maturity.   
   
 Q.   I know you've had a lot going yourself, but with what Medlen's done the last couple of months, is that something other guys notice?   
KYLE LOHSE:   You can't help but notice when someone's having the amount of success that he's had.   I haven't really had a chance to see him in person other than maybe a couple of relief appearances.   But it's impressive what he's done.   Obviously, the team plays very well behind him, and to be that consistently good to keep your team in games or win games says a lot about what kind of pitcher he is.   I expect him to keep doing what he's been doing out there, and my job is to do the same that he's doing.   Go out there and shut down their team.  
   
 Q.   You're not a hitter.   You tend to be more laid back than some other guys.   So when you were witnessing what went on last night with Berkman's situation, as players, does that affect you or touch you guys?   Or is that something that was a nice gesture?   
KYLE LOHSE:   It was pretty cool.   I was inside watching some video, and I saw him head down the hallway.   I thought he was joking at first.   I didn't know he was going to take an at‑bat.   He was pretty loose.   When I realized he was going for real, I made sure I was down there for that.   
Who knows what's down the road for them, whether that's his last at‑bat here or whatever it is, I wanted to make sure I was out there, and a lot of guys wanted to make sure I was out there to show the appreciation just like the fans did.   He's meant a lot to us in the short time he's been here, and been a good guy in the clubhouse.   You know, it's a great guy with a lot of experience that helped us out a lot last year.   
He hasn't been on the field much this year, but he's helped out in the clubhouse just being around and being a guy for young guys to talk to.   You know, he was in there holding court just a minute ago about a story I'd heart probably five times already, but it was still funny.  
   
 Q.   Do you think the Braves, after what happened last year feel like they owe you guys something?   Does that have any impact coming into tomorrow?   
KYLE LOHSE:   That is probably a better question for them.   I don't concern myself with billboard material stuff.   If they feel that way, that's their right.   I'm more concerned about how I'm going to get their eight guys out, nine guys out that they sent out there against me.   If they're throwing a little upset about last year, then I can't do anything about that.   That's not my concern.   I'm sure they probably have a little bit of resentment towards us, but that's not for me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT