U.S. OLYMPIC SWIM TRIALS
July 3, 2016
Connor Jaeger
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Top-four time in the world.
CONNOR JAEGER: Top four?  That's good.  What I was saying to those guys over there is those are strong times, but we're going to have to be better in Rio, and I'm looking forward to preparing this next five weeks or month, whatever it is and getting ready for that race.
Q. What is your take on Jordan?  Were you expecting him to be with you for a long time during that race?
CONNOR JAEGER: I was hoping that I was going to be able to break him a little bit earlier.  I never really broke him.  That's awesome.  I think it speaks to how -- what a competitor he is.  And we all saw what he did last summer in that 10K.  At the end of the 10K race he broke the field and drove the legs for a 500 or whatever it was, and if you're capable of doing that, I think you can do anything.  He's a fantastic swimmer, and we're lucky to have him on the team.
Q. What do you think he's good at?  You're a bigger guy, he's a smaller guy, does he have a great rate of turnover, endurance?
CONNOR JAEGER: His rate is super high.  He has an efficient technique, yeah, stroke rate is really high.  We're really blessed that we have people that come and do, like, stat analysis on our races, so we're actually able to see our stroke rate.  Like after prelims, we got top eight people's stroke rates and everything like that, so that's really cool, and Jordan's is super high, and I can't hold that rate that he holds for that long, so that's definitely combination of talent and hard work.
Q. What are the challenges to the long taper specifically for distance swimmers?
CONNOR JAEGER: Well, we just rely more on our aerobics system, so, you know, I'm not -- I'll have to get my coach out here to give you the whole thing, but basically your aerobics system can improve the fastest but also detrains the fastest, so if that's what we're racing with, then that's going to be the first thing to go, unfortunately, so that's why we're training in between events like the 400 and the 1500, not a lot but a little bit, to make sure you're staying fit.
Q. What do you think now as you transition out of this pressure to maybe being together as a team?
CONNOR JAEGER: I've always had a blast on training camps like this with the team.  I'm looking forward to -- I mean, I know pretty much everyone in there but I haven't gotten to actually know them as people so I'm really looking forward to that.
Q. (No microphone.)
CONNOR JAEGER: He's going to be there, yeah, I will definitely be there and ready to go.
Q. (No microphone.)
CONNOR JAEGER: I don't think I would say I'm the favorite.  But it doesn't mean I'm not gunning for it.
Q. (No microphone.)
CONNOR JAEGER: I mean, I'm blessed.  I'm just blessed that I can come to a meet like this with friends and family here to support me.  I had a great meet, and I'm really fortunate and some people didn't, and that's really unfortunate.  Also when you're in a sport like this for a long time, you get to know everybody so, you know, it's an emotional ride, because whether you're doing well or not you are seeing your friends having good or bad meets, and you feel for them, and even in a race like that, I'm best friends with Michael Mcbroom, and he didn't make the team, and that's really sad, but that's the sport.
Q. A message to an Italian guy after this race?
CONNOR JAEGER: Looking forward to seeing you in Rio.
Q. Would you ever consider open water --
CONNOR JAEGER: No, there's no way!






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT