AIR FORCE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 8, 2011
Troy Calhoun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






NOTRE DAME 59
  AIR FORCE 33

 COACH CALHOUN: One thing that's quite evident in recent weeks, we made significant improvement, playing with an awful lot of confidence. A very talented football team that executed extremely well today, and you know, to come in here, one, you have to win the turnover margin, we didn't do that today and again, tip your cap to them. They were able to get a ball out on our very first play on scrimmage on offense, and defensively we have got to get off the field on third down. They are quite a group and just with no weaknesses and we saw that coming in, too. 
 Frankly when you see them playing live, you're a little bit surprised that the record is not even better and it can be as they go.
 What do we have to do? We have got to continue to somewhat more and really develop as a squad. Probably what we did a little bit today; we moved some guys around in different spots which we felt like we had to do with our defensive front and we are going to make sure that we go back and revaluate to see if that's the best thing for us to down the road.
 Turn around quickly, play again Thursday night against an excellent football team, a talented and very gifted group, against San Diego State. They have rushed for 228 yards in their Bowl game on 28 carries, had a bunch of yards against us and then defensively are a really, really capable units. So that's where we have to go forward at the Air Force Academy. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 COACH CALHOUN: We've got to do it, whatever parts are involved, we've got to do it. I think you take a game like this, you're able to play guys like Nick Fitzgerald and Joe Champaign played a bunch today as a freshman, and those guys, there are just so many lessons that are involved in a game like this and I think especially for a freshman at the Air Force Academy. Those guys are going to have to respond for us over the next seven games of the season. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 COACH CALHOUN: Again, tip your cap to them. I think they are an excellent football team. I mean, their movement, their size, that's a really, really good offensive line. I think the quarterback played super, and I think he did last week against superb and they are talented on the outside.
 Just we are in some spots to make plays. It's not like you look out there and we have a bunch of busted assignments. We have just go to play against a squad like this, you've got to make those happen.

 Q. Talk about defending the short field, I think in the first half, they were starting a lot, like from Robinson's yard line. 
 COACH CALHOUN: No question. That was a huge part of it. There's more to it, also. But we put our defense out there with some short fields, absolutely. With the turnover, two turnovers, you know, in the first half, and we took some chances. That we did. 
 And when it doesn't work out, you've got to be -- make it very, very difficult on yourself. Now that's not taking anything away from the opponent either.

 Q. Talk about you guys actually out-gained them 565 to 60 --
 COACH CALHOUN: Doesn't matter.

 Q. Doesn't matter? 
 COACH CALHOUN: No, sir. That does not matter.

 Q. You alluded to the quarterbacks, can you talk more about Rees and also Hendrix, the first time he had played. Did you expect to see that wrinkle in the game?
 COACH CALHOUN: You knew in high school he was quite a player in high school, too; and speaking of Hendrix. And Eric has played really, really well. I thought last week against Purdue -- I mean, Purdue was a 38-3 game; probably could have been more than that, too. 
 The difference is, you look recently how well they are operating offensively, go two weeks in a row with enormous balance. They have weapons, and then there are times where we got two of our really, really good players, corner and a safety that gobble up; and sometimes you have to throw to a tight end, which those are plays that you have to make, especially here when they are playing well. 

 Q. A function of not being able to stop them defensively --
 COACH CALHOUN: Coming into the game, we just thought, how can we grab a possession. We thought that was going to be something we would have to do, and we didn't execute it. And that's on us. That's on us as coaches. 

 Q. What explanation from the officials did you get on the replay on Michael Floyd's touchdown? Looked like it was out but what did they tell you. 
 COACH CALHOUN: There was no explanation. I think what it was -- calling the field stands. It was confirmed that it was definitely in. I didn't see it, either. When I saw it on the sideline, I thought it was out. But as far as the actual visual, I didn't see it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT