CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2018
Wu Yibing
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. JAZIRI/Wu Yibing
6-4, 6-3
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. Moving forward from now, what are you going to continue to work on?
WU YIBING: First of all, is a great experience for me here on the center court.  I think baseline-wise, I have to be more calm and work on rallies, how to maintain the shots, how to take the best selection for the shots, yeah.
Q. Can you talk a little bit about tonight's environment?  Have you ever had that with a match you've played?  Did it help?
WU YIBING: It's very happy to play at home with the people supporting.  For me, I don't feel really nervous.  I feel most likely the support from the people make me play better.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.
Q. This is the first year you turned pro.  Because of physical conditions, we have not seen good results in this season.  How would you evaluate your season?
WU YIBING: First half of the year I was injured, but I improved in my physical conditions.  Even though I did not play matches, I learned a lot, accumulated experience for the second half of the season.
The second half I wasn't injured, but I'm not fully recovered.  I want to be in more matches to prove myself.  That would help me go further in my career.
Q. This is your first year on the pro tour.  You saw challenges.  We also see progress.  I did well in the Asian Games.  How do you feel about turning pro?  Your partnership with your coach, what kind of changes has he brought to you?
WU YIBING: Well, my first year as a professional, I want to integrate into this community, which is quite different from the juniors.  On court, off court, I feel quite different.  I'm still very green as a professional player in terms of my tactics or the things.  I'm still growing and learning, but I want to grow faster to be in this circle.
To answer your second question, he didn't bring anything I've never heard of, but his analysis helps me understand things better.  The best thing you can do is to change yourself.  Others say it's something to help you, but the only thing you can do is to change yourself.
Q. In the second set you were behind and trying to catch up.  The ups and downs in this match, was it something hard to control, something you really wanted to deal with?  Is it a big challenge after you turned pro?
WU YIBING: For today's match, I was quite focused on each point.  But his shots were really aggressive.  I felt like he was forcing me to do something beyond my capabilities.
What I really need to do is to be patient.  On the baseline I think I hold an advantage, but in terms of his way of playing, I had to force myself to go forward, to be more assertive, which is something I should learn from this match.
Q. It was a very fast-paced match.  Was it something you discussed with your coach?
WU YIBING: Well, this is my style.  I've always played like this.  I don't want to run around the court.  I want to be in control.  This is something I should learn, because I really need to win the match.
Q. When you're playing against a professional player, control of tactics, how is it different from the junior matches?
WU YIBING: I wasn't really being controlled by the opponent.  I kept my level of play.  But on the court I hope I can take over, be it professional player or top player.  I don't want to think like this.  I want to be in control.
Q. At the end of June, you signed a contract with IMG.  You have a new coach and new team.  How do you look at your partnership with IMG?
WU YIBING: I feel really fortunate to be recognized by a new agency, to be working with a new team.  This really boosted my confidence level.  I'm also training in the U.S.  All those team members will be really helpful to my career.
Q. Last week in Chengdu you had a great match with Alex.  Did you ever much matches of players your own age?
WU YIBING: Well, I played them in junior matches.  I saw their matches.  I think they are really good to get those matches.  I want to learn from them.  This is something I shall learn.  I can be as good as them.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT