VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2019
Akshay Bhatia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You got the first round out of the way.  How was it for you out there?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Oh, it was fine, I didn't play very well but I still have hopefully three more days to get it done.
Q. And any nerves when you were out there first tee.
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, I mean definitely.  First hole, the birdie, that was kind of cool, but obviously I'm not used to the situation out here with crowds and just different conditions.  So overall I've learned a lot this first day and I'm excited to get out tomorrow.
Q. You said you had family flying in to come see you, what was that like?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, it's nice.  I could definitely hear their voices in the crowds, so it's awesome just having them here to support me.
Q. What was it like to birdie your very first hole at a TOUR event?
AKSHAY BHATIA: I don't know, I mean I wasn't expecting it, especially where I hit it, but that was awesome.  It helped me a little bit, but it didn't, I mean after that it was okay.
Q. What did you hit in there?
AKSHAY BHATIA: 58.  A hundred yards.  So we were trying to play to the front I wasn't trying to go at the pin at all.
Q. On a day when probably your driving wasn't like it usually is and not hitting as many greens, you still battled and got a score.
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, no, I mean I did play really well for 16 holes.  It's just coming down the stretch I didn't hit my driver and 3-wood very well and that's something I need to work on for tomorrow.
Q. Where did the story with the caddie come around, like how did you find him?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, so basically a caddie that I've had before in the past, they, I asked him if he could caddie and then he got a job out here, so he gave me Eric's number and that's kind of how it went.
Q. How long have you been thinking about this day?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Oh, I mean when I got the phone call it was great and there's just, after that, after that first day it was, I couldn't believe it and then after that it was just, you know, it's cool, it's just nice to be out here.
Q. What do you think you'll have to do better tomorrow to get to the weekend?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Just, I mean the biggest thing for me was just to get comfortable out there.  That was the hardest thing -- because I don't know how fast I'm actually going and with my routine or with the way I'm walking -- so it's just getting comfortable in the situation I'm in and my game's good enough to do it, it's just being ready.
Q. How big of a putt was it on 18, par saving and making a birdie.  Looks like you almost had the momentum going.
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, 18 was -- so I made par there, but that was a good par.  Just because I didn't hit my drive, I mean like I said, I didn't hit my driver very good the whole day and to make par there was, it was big just to carry on to the back nine.
Q. What was the biggest, for you, ah-ha, I'm at a PGA TOUR event, I'm playing a PGA TOUR event moment?  Was it running into Dustin Johnson or?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, it's definitely the first tee shot, it was, walking to that tee I knew my heart was going to be pumping and I was super excited to hit it, so it was just -- all it was, my coach just told me to just hit it as hard as you can, because that's the only thing I could do on that tee and it was good, I hit a good tee shot.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT