U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2018
Akshay Bhatia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Take me through the round, how things went today out there.  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, I hit it really well.  My putting wasn't very good today, but overall, my ball-striking was up there like an A-, and my driver wasn't great, either, but I really played solid today.   
 Q.  Was there anything in particular out there today that gave you trouble or that worked really well?  Anything that gave you trouble?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Just driving.  If you put yourself in bad positions out here, it's tough to kind of get up-and-down, especially with the narrowness of the greens, and also just the rough and the bunkers are pretty tough.   
 Q.  Was the weather, the coolness this morning, the dew, did that have any effect?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Definitely the ball went shorter starting, but after the sixth, seventh hole, it was easy to adjust.  Distance was a little off at the start, but it wasn't that hard.   
 Q.  First time out here other than your practice rounds; what are just your general impressions of Pebble?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: I mean, it's unreal.  You don't get this every day.  I was telling my caddie and my playing competitors, it's amazing that someone saw this in their eye and designed it, I mean, just the views and the golf course itself is just so scenic and so special.  I mean, you just take up all of it, seeing all the water and stuff.   
 Q.  Did you ever find it hard to concentrate with all this stuff?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: No.  I mean, it's definitely a good go-away place if you're not playing well or you do something bad, you just look at the water and it clears your mind and just makes you feel so thankful that you're here.  It's definitely cool.   
 Q.  Good start, 1-under.  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, I definitely could have shot like 7-under today with the way I was hitting it, but just work on some stuff today and rest up for tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT