U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2018
Akshay Bhatia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, made it to the quarterfinals.  What are your feelings on that first?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Relieved.  I mean, the first match I wasn't hitting it great.  Just kind of struggling in the morning.  Ended up making an eight-footer on 18 to win, which was really nice.
And then today both me and Yuki both stripped it.  Whoever made the most birdies would get the win, and I made a lot putts coming down the stretch and hit a lot of great drives and set myself up for really good birdie opportunities.
Q. Then he was up going into 7.  Tell me about that stretch, 7, 8, 9?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, 7 I hit it to the middle of the green, he didn't get up and down, so I won that hole with a par.
Next hole I got up and down for birdie.
Then next hole hit it to like three feet; made birdie.
Then we tied 10.
Then I think we tied 11.
I think we tied 12.  I don't know.
Q. Yeah.  And then your par on 13?
AKSHAY BHATIA: 13 he won.  I hit it left in the creek and then I burnt the edge on my par putt, which was unfortunate.
And then 14 we both birdied.
15 I made like a 40-footer, which was a bonus, to get 2-up.
And then 16 I honestly don't know how my putt didn't go in.  I hit a perfect putt.  Burnt the edge.
And then 17 I hit it right and then he hit it pin high, so I knew I had to make a birdie in order to close the match out.  I had 140 in; hit it to like six feet and drained the putt, which was really nice.
Q. Obviously it's a long day.  Two matches.  How much of the kind of mental side weighs into it when you get to the end?
AKSHAY BHATIA: A lot.  I mean, I knew beginning of this week it's going to a huge grind, but my caddie has a lot of good energy so having him next to me is really good, especially in match play.
So just have a lot of rest and hopefully close out the first two matches tomorrow pretty early.  Hopefully see in the finals.
Q. Going into another quarterfinals tomorrow, what is your mindset?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Play my game.  I mean, you can't play the other person's game, like I've said before.  Just make a ton of birdies.
I'm hitting it so well and my putting most of the time is really good.  As long as I can match the line and the speed right, it's going to be hard to beat me honestly.
Q. Can you tell me a little bit more about the birdies on 8 and 9, clubs?
AKSHAY BHATIA: 8 I hit driver and then I had 210 in.  I hit 4-iron into the -- it was like on the lip of the bunker.  I hit a really nice flop shot and made a slider about four feet.
And then 9 I hit driver.  I had 76 yards in.  Hit it to about five feet, which is a bonus because of where I was and where the pin was.  I was left and the pin was tucked left.
I hit it to five feet and made the putt.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT