SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 20, 2019
Akshay Bhatia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First impressions? First PGA TOUR start. How did things go for you this week?
AKSHAY BHATIA: You know, it's obviously new to me. Just got to get used to the environment. I played well this first 18. Honestly didn't play that bad the second 18; I just didn't hit my driver very well.
Out here you can't do that. Tucked pins are challenging, and I faced enough of those this week. Just restart. I got plenty of opportunities to do what I need to do.
Q. What did you learn in your first 36 holes, first week as a professional?
AKSHAY BHATIA: I mean, it doesn't feel much different, other than just I just got to stay patient. I just got to drive it better. That's the only thing.
I drove it pretty well the first 18; obviously played well. If I do the same thing and take advantage of par-5s a little more, then I play way better.
This week just wasn't there. Part of it was I got a little tired and fatigued.
Q. Anything surprise you?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Not really. I knew what to expect. I mean, I played a little more conservative than I think I should have. I just didn't take care of the par-5s. You can't do that against these guys because they're going to eat those par-5s up.
Q. Looking ahead to the future, how will this experience help you?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Every time you play in a stage bigger than what you're used to it's going to help you. I'll talk to my parents and manager and we'll get through it.
Next week is a new week. I have another opportunity. Like I said, if I do what I need to do and drive it a little better I can certainly perform out here; I know I can.
Q. If you had to give yourself a grade, what would it be for this week?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Probably a C at least. Just the par-5s I didn't play very well. Everything else was pretty good. If I was in the fairway I hit a lot of good wedge shots and made a good amount of putts out here.
Q. What's your schedule looking like for the next few weeks?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, so, I mean, obviously not going to make it to the weekend here, but I got Safeway next week and the Shriners Hospital For Children, have a few weeks off, and I think -- I believe I'll get into the RSM Classic. Crossing my fingers for that. And Q-School at the end of that month.
Just grind away.
Q. You know what Q-School site?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Southern Hills, Florida.
Q. You seemed comfortable out there. I mean, other than the fact that you're clearly a little tired. This morning you seemed really comfortable.
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, I was definitely comfortable. I've been in an atmosphere like this. Obviously Walker Cup last week I had 6000, 7000 people watching me and the golf course was obviously hard.
You know, I feel fine. I just, like I said, got to drive it better. Luckily my coach will be out there with me next week and the next few weeks actually. We'll get some stuff squared away.
Like I said, I know I can compete out here. I shot under par in my first go-round as a pro. Just got to do what I need to do and say it with a smile.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT