SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Akshay Bhatia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We will go ahead and get started. Akshay Bhatia, thanks for joining us for a few minutes prior to your second career PGA TOUR start here at Sanderson Farms Championship this week.   
We're doing something a little bit different with our press conference today. We've got John joining us who you have had some time to spend with today. We know how important kids are to you, especially given the fact that you at least compared to me are a kid. That's been very influential to your progress as is a player.   
Just a few comments on being here this week and then we'll have John ask you a couple questions and turn it over and have the media ask a few questions.   
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, I'm very grateful to be here obviously. Mr. Jent giving me the opportunity to play this week, Mr. Sanderson for sponsoring this event. Wouldn't being possible without him.   
So just excited to get the week going. Just the opportunities I have this week are just, you know, some things I look forward to. I was fortunate to do the junior clinic today with John and was very impressed with him. He's 11 years old and he made probably like 200 feet of putts. It was pretty cool. I'm just ready to go for this week. I'm excited.   
JOHN: What are you most excited about with your game right now?   
AKSHAY BHATIA: Well, watching you, probably trying to make a lot of bombs this week. The greens are great. You know, you got to hit it in the fairway. Overall, this course is not too bad as a setup. Just hit it in the fairway, make a lot of putts, and that's what's going to get it done this week.   
JOHN: How did your experience coming in second in the Junior Am in 2018 benefit you?   
AKSHAY BHATIA: Benefited me a lot, because I remember telling my manager just how I kind of admitted to myself how tired I got in that second 18 match. It's something that's definitely -- I've thought about and just never going to happen again.   
So stamina is going to be huge this week. There is a lot of pressure going on there. I remember I couldn't eat. I just couldn't do much. I couldn't breathe. Unfortunately I lost, but it's definitely humbled me and I'm ready to get this experience going.   
JOHN: What are your expectations this week?   
AKSHAY BHATIA: Expectations, I mean, I don't really have any. My coach, George, and I, talked about not having expectations going into every week. What happens, happens, happens. I'm not going to dwell if I don't play well or go ballistic if I do play well.   
I'm just going to enjoy to week and enjoy the opportunities I have in Mississippi.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  With Joaquin winning last week and...(regarding Collin Morikawa.) How much confidence does that give you being the younger guy?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: I mean, I do definitely gain some confidence knowing that we're all good enough to compete out here. It's just getting over the hump of just the atmosphere is a little different.   
Obviously we're all good golfers and we can put the ball in the hole really quick. I mean, these guys just have a little more experience. It's exciting seeing all these guys do so well so quick.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Not really. I mean, he knows how good all of us were on that team. It is a cool stat knowing that six of the guys that played in the Walker Cup of 2017 have their TOUR card and they're out here this week. Like she said, it just gives me more confidence knowing these guys did some similar things to me, and now here they are competing on the biggest stage in golf.   
So it's cool.   
THE MODERATOR: John has one more question, I think.   
JOHN: How excited were you to see a young guy like Joaquin win last week?   
AKSHAY BHATIA: That's a good question. It was really cool because Joaquin didn't go to college and obviously had a great amateur and junior career. To see him finally break through and win, it was probably the coolest thing.   
I'm not too close with him but we're friends. I saw him in the locker room this week, gave him a hug. It was just probably the coolest thing. Like I said, it's inspiring to see that. I'm ready to get it going and see what I can do.   
 Q.  How has this transition been not going through the collegiate route?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Doesn't feel any different actually. It's weird. I didn't know what to expect. It hasn't felt much different. I feel very comfortable this week, especially having the opportunity to play Valspar earlier this year was kind of getting that wow factor over with.   
Now I don't expect it to happen this week, other than the 1st tee obviously. It's just golf. I got to realize that and tell myself that.   
 Q.  What's your schedule for the fall?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: So I am in this week, the Safeway next week, the Shriners Hospital for Children, and then I have a few weeks off and kind of see where I go from there.   
 Q.  (No microphone.)  
AKSHAY BHATIA: I believe so. I'm not too sure. I do have Q-School at the end of this year.   
 Q.  First stage, second?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Second, yeah.   
JOHN: Anything else you would like to add?   
AKSHAY BHATIA: Chicken is really good this week. Feast on that. But, no, I'm very excited, like I said, just to have this opportunity to play out here and see what I can do against these guys again. It's something I'm going to enjoy, and hopefully I can smile a lot out there, so...   
JOHN: Good job today and good luck this week.   
AKSHAY BHATIA: Thank you, John, you too. (Applause).   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT