U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2019
Akshay Bhatia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So this was one you had to battle again today.  You were down most of the match but you stayed in there.
AKSHAY BHATIA: Uh-huh, I knew it was going to be a tough match against Preston.  I mean, said in a the press conference he's underrated; he's good.
But he played just that one shot better.  I'm rooting for him.  I really hope he wins.
Q. You found a way to get back with birdies though.
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah.  Yeah, I got a couple putts to drop and I hit it a lot better than I have.
But, you know, I just -- I didn't play my greatest game this week, and you're not going to get it done at the U.S. Junior if you're not.
Q. You birdied 13.  You birdied both par-5s today, but you birdied 13 to get even.  How did you birdie 13?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, I hit 3-wood down the fairway; had 220; hit 6-iron about 25 feet and two-putted and Preston three-putted, so...
Q. Won a couple holes with par, so you're still all square sitting in the fairway there.  What did you have and what happened with the approach shot?
AKSHAY BHATIA: 18 I hit two really good shots.  Just the adrenaline got to me.  I mean, I hit a great shot.  It was right at the flag.  Just obviously overshot the green.  The rough is penalizing, so it's just hard to again up and down.
Preston, I mean, hit a great shot.  It's kind of hard to -- you know, I would've expected him to make it if he needed to.
Q. Looked like you had plenty there on that putt.  Did you think you made it?
AKSHAY BHATIA: I thought it was low but, I mean, I hit it hard enough where I thought it maybe would hop in.  The greens got kind of bumpy towards the end and unpredictable to judge.
Q. And finally, how would you evaluate your whole week here?
AKSHAY BHATIA: Just amazing.  Inverness is probably one of the coolest spots I've been able to play as a junior.  I just got a lot to work on before my next couple events.  But all learning experience really, just to show how I'm doing under pressure.
I just need to tell myself that I don't need to add pressure to myself.  I'm already good and I know I am capable of doing really good things.
So just kind of learn from my expectations a little bit and hopefully U.S. Am I can get something going there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT