U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2019
Akshay Bhatia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Maybe it wasn't your best performance, but you did figure out a way to win.  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah.  No, I started out all right.  Just my irons today were just not very good.  I mean, I kind of let him back in the match coming down to the back nine.  I mean, figured something out the last two, three holes.   
I had two birdies in the last three or four holes, which is some momentum I can build on, just some work I can do for next 20 minutes and be ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  When you got to the 13th tee and it was down to one, were you mad at yourself?  Were you thinking, Let's get going here?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: No.  You know, one of my coaches is caddying me this week, so he just told me, Okay, the mindset, we get to get back into just playing stroke play golf.  Try and position ourselves to make a birdie and not worry about what he's doing.   
That's exactly what I did.  I hit two really good shots and 2-putted that hole for birdie, which is really nice.  Kind of stole a bogey on the next hole.   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  And then you birdied 16.  Oh, you par'd 15 first to go 3-up.  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, I hit my 6-iron from I think 185 back into the wind to eight nine feet, which is a really good shot, just because I was struggling all day with my start line.   
Then 16 obviously I finished off with a birdie.   
 Q.  How did you birdie 16?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Perfect drive and had 102 yards in.  Hit it to about ten feet and finally got a putt to drop from outside of five feet today.   
 Q.  How long do you think that was?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Ten feet.   
 Q.  Ten?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Yeah, yeah.   
 Q.  And then what may you work on before you go home tonight that you found, this little thing?  What may you work on on the range?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: I think just my routine a little bit.  Probably got a little quicker today.  Just felt a little rushed.  Overall, I know as long as I keep my mental game strong I'll be fine.   
Because I've been in this situation before, like last year, all I need to do is just play how I normally do, even if I have my B or B minus or C game.  I think I can get the job done.   
 Q.  What's the one thing you didn't know that you learned last year that's going to help you the rest of this week?  
AKSHAY BHATIA: Never to give up really.  I mean, I just got to realize that a lot of people are going to wear down if I'm doing something really good; whether you're making putts or hitting the fairway out here especially is huge.   
So I learned that, I mean, last year I had two matches I can go back to.  I really grinded out to win those matches because we had -- I mean, I had a kid chip in on me on the 16th hole to go I think 1-up or all square, and 18 I had to make a six, seven-footer to win the match and I did it.   
So I can reflect back on the moments I've had out here in match play, and I think I'll be all right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT