OKLAHOMA CITY THUNDER MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 25, 2019
Deonte Burton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Deonte, you've had a lot of different experiences in your career.  What from all of that are you most looking forward to taking into the off-season to help you improve?
DEONTE BURTON: Work ethic, really.  Just carry over the work ethic that I had this year into the summer.
Q. What does that look like for you in terms of things you'll be working on on both sides of the court?
DEONTE BURTON: A little bit of everything, my shot, defense.  Probably focus a lot more on defense this summer.
Q. Deonte, do you have a better sense of where Coach wants you to play than you did coming into the year because the Brooklyn game they played real guard heavy and Billy pointed out that's why he played you in that game?
DEONTE BURTON: Can you repeat the question?
Q. Do you have a better sense of where they want to play you position-wise?
DEONTE BURTON: Yes.  Yes, I do.  I believe it's more of the 4.
Q. Are you playing Summer League?
DEONTE BURTON: Hopefully.  Probably, most likely.  Nothing is guaranteed.  Most likely, though.
Q. You're expecting to stay at the 4, assuming you're playing?
DEONTE BURTON: I don't know.  Coach's decision.
Q. One thing a lot of times we see from young players in the NBA is there's so much less space on the floor that putting the ball on the deck and driving and making plays can be really challenging.  Where do you think you can continue to grow in that department because you do have that ability, and we've seen it throughout the course of the year?
DEONTE BURTON: Decision making.  I can make better decisions with the ball.  Yeah, and I think it'll get better once I get more experience with it.
Q. I know you loved your time with the Blue; how is it going to be not having that part of your experience at all next year?
DEONTE BURTON: It's bittersweet.  It's bittersweet, because it's going to be different.  It's like, it's going to be like a new year again because this is going to be new being with just the Thunder.  I'm going to feel like I'm missing the G-League, I think.  G-League is good timing, too, like a lot more time than people think.
Q. What's the biggest thing you took from your experience there?
DEONTE BURTON: Flexibility, being very flexible.  Like you never know your schedule, so you have to always be prepared for anything.
Q. Coming from Korea, playing the G-League, was there anything about just like NBA life, the travel, the team, the practice facility, was there anything that kind of surprised you or you thought was unique or interesting?
DEONTE BURTON: No, not really.  I kind of already like knew how they traveled because at Marquette we used the Bucks' plane sometimes, so I kind of knew how we would travel.  And basketball doesn't really change that much.
Q. Do you have any other plans for the summer?
DEONTE BURTON: I don't even know my plans for the summer.  I just know what the schedule is.  I have no idea what I'm going to do.
Q. Are you going to stay here?
DEONTE BURTON: I'm going to be here like some of the time for sure, but I don't know where else I'm going to be.  Milwaukee, also, for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT