DORAL-RYDER OPEN
March 4, 1999
Doug Barron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
DOUG BARRON:  I played real solid.  I drove my ball really well.  There were some really tough driving holes out there with that wind blowing.  No. 3, in particular, kinds of sticks out in my mind.  Just a lot of good driving holes.  I have never played this course with that wind before.  So it was pretty tough.  I mean, 10 was a tough driving hole.  12 -- I kept hitting good drives.  I hit a bunch of fairway bunkers, but the bunkers, they have done them great this year which I was more comfortable in them.  The last couple of years in the past they have been kind of real soft and I have struggled out of them.  But today, the fairway bunkers were much more playable.  I thought they done a great job on those. 
 
DOUG BARRON:  I birdied 10.  I hit a 9-iron in there, I think I was only like 115, but the wind was blowing so hard I hit it a couple feet.  Then I birdied 12, hit 6-iron for my third shot out of the fairway bunker.  That hole was playing extremely long today.  Then I birdied 18, I hit a 9-iron in there about probably a foot.  I hit it in there pretty close. 
 

Q.  How long was your putt on 12?
 
DOUG BARRON:  About ten feet.  I'd said ten, twelve feet. 
 
DOUG BARRON:  I bogeyed 13.  I hit a really good shot. Misjudged the wind.  I tried a 3-iron into a right-to-left wind; didn't quite get to the green.  I didn't get it up-and-down. Actually made a good putt for bogey.  18, I hit it in there about a foot with a 9-iron.  Never seen 18 play like that.  It was the last two years I remember hitting 2-iron in on Thursdays, so, kind of laid down today for us, I guess.  Let's see what other birdies.  I birdied 2.  Hit 7-iron from like 130 to about a foot.  I had a lot of foot putts today.  Birdied 5, hit 8-iron out of the fairway bunker to about 15 feet, made that.  7, I made it from just off the green, but it was really the best spot to be in.  It was straight uphill about a 20-footer right in the center.  Bogeyed 8, I had 206 to the front, hit really nice drive, and I had about 226 to the pin, hit 3-iron.  I didn't get comfortable over it.  I hit it a little thin; caught the water, I wedged it up there; hit a really nice putt.  I just misread it. So....  Stumbled a little there, but when it is windy out there, I think you are going to hit some crappy shots every now and then. So..... 
 

Q.  Have you had some injury problems?  Why did you withdraw  from Phoenix?
 
DOUG BARRON:  Well, the second round we finished up in the dark, I was going to miss the cut, and I wasn't going to make it anyway, so I just -- I ended up flying home after that.  It wasn't a matter of being injured as it was kind of pointless to come out and play five holes when I was playing bad.  It was just  -- didn't feel like going out there the next day. 
 

Q.  Kind of a tough start for you.  The difference today maybe getting to Florida, different --
 
DOUG BARRON:  It is being -- I have never played well here at Doral, so really I wasn't really looking that forward to coming back.  But I have gotten one of my best friends with me, a minister from back home, spending some time with me, and really just been working on trying to take a little pressure off my golf game.  I have been putting too much pressure on myself, I guess, starting my third year I had all these great expectations and just got off to a bad start on the West Coast; didn't necessarily play bad every week, just my scores ended up too high after I finished everyday, so... 
 

Q.  Where are you from?
 
DOUG BARRON:  Memphis.  You can't tell? 
 

Q.  The minister's name?
 
DOUG BARRON:  Chris Connely.  He is sitting right behind you.  I usually bring him out to a tournament once a year.  He helps me at home a lot, disciples me at home, and like to bring him out once a year just to, you know, see how I am doing out on the road, kind of keep me in line. 
 

Q.  He blessed your golf game?
 
DOUG BARRON:  He did.  I think he did.  My wife will be happy with him. 
 

Q.  Do you feel like the score (inaudible) --
 
DOUG BARRON:  Looks like it is calming down out there.  I think, you know, you never know out here someone shoots 65 everyday out here.  I wasn't really thinking about a score or anything.  Obviously No. 8 I kind of stumbled, cost a couple of shots, but seems like everyday someone gets hot, either in the morning or afternoon.  So I think 66 will probably be the score of the day partially.  The greens are just too good. 
 

Q.  18 dead downwind?
 
DOUG BARRON:  Straight downwind, that is the most comfortable I have ever been on 18th tee.  I am not a long hitter, probably average on Tour, and I mean, the water wasn't really in play today.  Kind of a nice feeling.  You can kind of take it over to where you know how Tiger feels now every time he plays all those long holes. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT