CANON GREATER HARTFORD OPEN
July 26, 1997
Doug Barron
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DOUG BARRON: Well, I got off to a pretty -- I made one bogey starting out and kind of just went with Tom all day.  He went really well.  And we just fed off each other.  I could have called him at the end, but I didn't.  I hit two great shots at the last hole.  But I'm excited about my position going into tomorrow, so I'm looking forward to it.


Q.  What is the closest you've ever Ben?

DOUG BARRON: I think in Hawaii, maybe.  I'm not really sure.  I was probably around 15 or so.  Maybe Greensboro.  I don't remember.  I was fourth after two days and shot a 3-over on the weekend.  But I made a bunch of cuts but.  Just starting to get comfortable out here.  My game is getting good.  I've been driving my ball really well this week, and that's the key to this golf course.


Q.  Comfortable as far as what?

DOUG BARRON: It's my first year out there here.  I played The Nike Tour for two years.  Now I know all the guys now.  And I feel I can play with them.  So, you know, I'm not intimidated by the guy as much anymore.  I wasn't intimidated, but you've seen all these guys your whole life on TV, and then you're playing against them now. But I feel my game is strong and I can play with all these guys.


Q.  Is there a certain point where you get to where you're confident and you can play with them?

DOUG BARRON: Well, I tell you, I had an interesting putting match on the putting green earlier this week.  I won't say who was putting, but it gave me some confidence to come from behind, and on the putting match with some guys.  And I don't know, you just play every week, and all of a sudden this week it kind of just kicked in.  I feel my like balls are going in the fairway, and I feel the like the putts are going in the hall, and I'm excited about playing.


Q.  It wasn't Lee, was it?

DOUG BARRON: What's that?  No.

DOUG BARRON: Bogeyed four.  Drove it in the right rough and hit a great shot. I hit an 8-iron out of the rough and got it to the front of the green.  But I had like a 90 foot putt, and I just -- well, it was on the fringe, and I left it about ten feet right of the hole and missed it.  And I guess the next hole I hit a 4-iron in there, about four feet and made that.  And then 9, I hit a sand wedge in there about six inches, a foot.  And then 11, let's see, made about a 15 footer up the hill there.  Then 14 I made about a 20 footer back down the hill behind the hole.  And, let's see, 15 I hit it up there.  I chip -- bump-and-runned it up in the hill from about 20 yards and a couple feet from the hole.  I think that was it.

DOUG BARRON: No, about 12 feet probably up the hill. I just misread it.  My caddie told me it was going left and I didn't believe him.  I thought it was straight.  I hit a good put.

DOUG BARRON: Thank you.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT