U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2018
Raul Pereda
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The holes that you made birdie.  
RAUL PEREDA: Well, I made birdie on No. 3, hit a good tee shot, and I had probably 130 and hit a good 50-degree wedge to about 20 feet, and I rolled that one in.  That gave me a little bit of confidence.  And then on No. 6, on the par-5, I hit a good second shot to the front edge.  I just chipped to about one foot, tap-in for birdie.  And then the one on No. 8, that's a little funny because I hit a 2-iron and I didn't count on it that it was going to roll too much, and it was in the hazard, and it was almost on a cliff, and I played it from there.  It was a little risky because I looked down and I had a little bit of fear that I was going to fall down.  I hit a good knock-down shot, and it rolled to about eight feet, 10 feet, and I rolled that one in.   
 Q.  What was the iron that you hit from the cliff?  
RAUL PEREDA: I hit a knock-down 7 from 160, 165.  And then I saved par on 9.  I had a tough break on 10, hit a good second shot, very solid.  It was a little long, and in that grass, I ended up putting for par at a long distance but saved bogey.  So it's a good bogey there.  There's going to be a lot of them there.  And then I birdied No. 12, if I remember -- no, actually No. 13.  I hit it to about four feet and rolled that one in.  Then I bogeyed the par-5.  That was 14.  It was not a bad second shot, but I didn't put myself in a good position.  I was in the left rough, and I didn't count on that wind, and the ball came out a little soft, so I ended up in the bunker.   
And then on 16, I rolled a good one, too, from the low left side.  It was probably a good 20 feet again.  And then saved par on the par-3 after being a little short-sided on the right.  I gave myself a chance for birdie on 18, and it was a little long, but I rolled it past a good six feet, seven feet and made it back, but at the end, I think I'm in good position right now.  I have the experience of playing the U.S. Am last year and not thinking about score helps a lot.  Once you're in match play, everything changes.  Everyone has chances, no matter what place you finish in the stroke play.  And then playing the Amateur Championship a couple months ago or a month ago also gave me a good idea on how everything works once you are in match play.   
 Q.  Let's go back to the question I asked you at the beginning, based on the fact that you're 1-under rather than 2-under.  1-under round first day of the U.S. Amateur, that's got to be very satisfying to you.  
RAUL PEREDA: Yeah, definitely.  I definitely feel like there was a lot of flow in my game, knowing that I wasn't hitting a driver very good, because as I said, there are demanding tee shots and windy conditions.  I let myself play.  I enjoyed it.  Out here I think if you don't enjoy it, it's tough, because you see a lot of beautiful landscapes or -- I don't know how you say it.  I think I'm in good position.  I'm lucky that my sports psychologist is on the bag this week, and that really helps me because I feel safe, positive during the round.  I feel calm when it comes to tough situations.  He gives me clear ideas of what do I want to do, and I think we're going to go out and do the same tomorrow, one shot at a time, and we'll be there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT