AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 7, 2019
Ho Sung Choi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your first official PGA TOUR round.  Talk about it.  
HO SUNG CHOI: I tried not to be nervous, but I was nervous over the first few holes.  But I think I was lacking a little bit on my approach putts.  But other than that it was a great experience.   
 Q.  You made a fantastic chip at 1.  The crowd was going crazy.  And you did your little dance.  
HO SUNG CHOI: I felt like I was really lucky on the first hole, but I was disappointed with some of the bogeys I made on the front.  So I tried to stay focused on the back.   
 Q.  It looked like you were having a lot of fun with Aaron and Jerry.  You gave them that massage with your head cover at 2, I think, and the jokes about the mustache.  Was it as fun as it looked?  
HO SUNG CHOI: I had so much fun today.  I think my pairing was just as good as the weather today and I learned a lot from Jerry Kelly.   
 Q.  How much love did you feel from the galleries?  
HO SUNG CHOI: Yeah, I definitely felt the love from my fans and I felt like that pushed me more to focus on the back nine.   
 Q.  How come you're wearing the tournament logo and not other corporate sponsors?  
HO SUNG CHOI: I actually don't have a sponsor yet, but I wanted to show it as my appreciation for the tournament for having me out here and I'm incredibly grateful and that's why I'm wearing the logo.   
 Q.  Did it feel different to play on the -- golf is the same, but the atmosphere and your own feelings were different here than on your home TOUR?  
HO SUNG CHOI: Yeah, I've had a lot of experiences on courses on the Korean TOUR and the Japan TOUR but I felt like the biggest difference was on the greens.  I just couldn't get used to it and it was very fast, so that was something that was the biggest, most difficult part for me.   
 Q.  Were you surprised by Aaron Rodgers Korean?  
HO SUNG CHOI: I was really surprised.  He knew how to say hello in Korean, so I was really surprised he could say that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT