OKLAHOMA STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2017
Marcell Ateman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Oklahoma State - 41, Texas Tech - 34
OKLAHOMA STATE INTERVIEW
MARCELL ATEMAN: Making it happen.  Just expected to make plays in big-time situations.  So basically we (indiscernible).  Just try to make plays.  Shout out to the O line and everybody, everybody just making it happen.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
MARCELL ATEMAN: No, those balls -- kind of like --
Q. You got in the red zone every possession but once?
MARCELL ATEMAN: Yes, sir.
Q. And you still had to make big-time plays to win the game.  Is it frustrating to not take advantage of all the opportunities?
MARCELL ATEMAN: Yeah, it's not just frustrating, but we just had to stay poised in those situations.  It does get frustrating.  We know we should have pounded it in, but it is what it is.  We persevered.  Defense played a great game.  Mason (indiscernible).  So just shout out to them.
Q. Is it good to know you can win a game like this if you need to?
MARCELL ATEMAN: Oh, yes, sir.  Any kind of win, I mean, coming into a hostile environment like this, we'll take whatever is given.  A win is a win.  So it's a great feeling.  I'm just proud of everybody.
Q. Your guys' last drive, that third down catch over the cornerback.  Take me through that whole play.
MARCELL ATEMAN: It was man.  We were expected to get man.  And Mason told me if you get man on this certain play, if you get press coverage I'm going to come your way.
So we knew it was going to come.  Once the play was called, we got what we wanted.  And I just had to make a play.  It was a great ball by Mason, great blocking by the front, and we just had to make a play.
Q. The corner was in pretty good position there; you just kind of snatched it from him?
MARCELL ATEMAN: That's what Coach Yurcich and Coach Gun and everybody tell me there, that's my ability.  I'm 6'5", I've got to go over guys smaller than me and make plays.
Q. Is that the biggest catch you've ever made?
MARCELL ATEMAN: No, I made plenty of catches like that.  It just happens to be in a game situation like this.  So I just take it for what it is.
Q. I think you guys were in the red zone 10 times tonight.  You guys only punted one time.  And those 10 times, you score five touchdowns.  Had a couple of field goals.  Missed field goals, the interception.  Was there frustration with the offense in terms of you guys can get down inside the 20, seemed like that, and you just couldn't figure out a way to punch it in?
MARCELL ATEMAN: It's frustrating.  But we always stay poised.  Coach is always keeping us level-headed.  It's not always ideal.  So defense made great plays out there.  So just give a shout out to them for making those plays.  Just going to work on it and turn it up.
Q. Kind of a strange first half to watch because at one point they were ahead 14-7, and it felt like you guys had sort of dominated the game.  Didn't you guys feel like you were in control even though the scoreboard didn't say that?
MARCELL ATEMAN: Yeah, that's why we weren't really tripping out there because we knew we could go down, we knew we could march down the field, and we just had find a way to get him in the end zone.  We just stayed poised.  We just knew next time we were just going to have to get in there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT