NL DIVISION SERIES: METS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 8, 1999
Fred Hina
Mike Piazza
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What is your status, what kind of cast do you have here on your hand?

FRED HINA: I will explain that. As we all know Mike has an inflammatory response to the
cortisone injection that he received yesterday morning. In response to the inflammation
the proper thing to do is to immobilize the joint, not to continue to stress it. That is
the reason for the splint. He is taking oral medication, an anti-inflammatory and lots of
ice treatments.

Q. How long is he out?

MIKE PIAZZA: Well, pardon me. I am a little slow I guess from the medicine. I am a
little bit groggy, but we are just taking it I guess now hour by hour. I am going to keep
on treating it throughout the game tonight. From what I understand from what Fred has told
me, from what the doctors told me. The anti-inflamatories and just the ice should make the
swelling go down significantly this evening and then tomorrow morning I will just evaluate
it from there. I think from what the doctors also said, in the next 24 hours it should be
improved dramatically.

Q. What can you do; can you grip a bat, can you catch, can you do anything prior to the
icing, all that?

MIKE PIAZZA: No, I really couldn't do anything today at all. All I is when I woke up
this morning I was incapacitated. I couldn't do anything. Got here as early as possible
and started treating it with Fred and again it is quite painful. It was pretty swollen up
and it was very sensitive and it is feeling better in the last couple of hours since we
have been icing it periodically, so again, it is just see how it feels throughout this
evening and hopefully it will feel better improved tomorrow.

Q. Are you going to make the final call? Obviously with the doctors' advice but what
will tell you whether you can go tomorrow?

MIKE PIAZZA: Obviously I am just going to see how it does feel later on through the
evening and tomorrow morning. I am going to do everything possible. We are doing
everything possible to get back on the diamond. That is where I want to be. But obviously
it is a pretty critical area when you are catching and hitting, so, I mean, there is not
much you can do if it is swollen up and extremely stiff and very painful right now. It is
obviously very disappointing right now, but hopefully it will feel better very quickly.

Q. It took the team 163 games to get to this point. How tough is it going to be to have
to watch this game tonight?

MIKE PIAZZA: It is -- you know, what can you say? I am very, very disappointed right
now. Actually I was very worried as well because of the pain and the doctor was talking
about having it looked at for possible infection so I was you know, just didn't sit well.
I actually got a little you know, sick starting to think about it. But like I said, from
what they said, from what Fred said, it should be feeling better this evening and so
again, I mean like I said, you can't -- you can't feel anything, I can't grip a bat or put
my glove on. It is very disappointing. But I have the most confidence in this ballclub and
they have obviously -- it is not just because I like to think I am a big reason why I am
here but I am not the only reason why we are here so I just hope and I know these guys are
going -- they are going to be okay.

Q. Medically what went wrong. It now looks like you have no chance. Say hopefully this
evening if it feels better are you holding out any hope?

MIKE PIAZZA: We are trying to be optimistic.

Q. Are you holding out any hope to possibly pinch-hit tonight?

MIKE PIAZZA: Again I can only say once we do ice it a few more times and get the splint
off and if it does loosen up, then you know, maybe we can tape it up or do something like
that, but I think in the next couple of hours it is going to be a real sort of sign or see
what does -- how it does improve and if the swelling does continue to go down.

Q. Is this what was the original injury?

MIKE PIAZZA: Come to Fred about two weeks ago I had some slight discomfort in my thumb,
just from catching and then hitting and I felt it gripped on the bat. I just really didn't
feel like I was -- didn't have, you know, 100%. It was enough to hit and it was a little
bit of pain. It wasn't to the point of where it was disabling. But then it got markedly --
it did, what is the word -- it did progress into some more pain. That is when I approached
Fred last night about getting an X-ray this morning just to look at it or, excuse me,
yesterday morning and then when the doctor saw there was no chips or no, you know,
immediate look of something wrong on the X-ray, then that is when he gave me the
injection. I guess obviously the injection was what really made it blow up.

Q. Fred, is that reaction normal; most people get that kind of reaction?

FRED HINA: No, actually it is very rare. Unfortunately it is very rare. But typically
what you see with cortisone injections is the downside risk is an inflammatory response to
the injection itself. It is very rare. I can't give you a percentage. Obviously a doctor
could better -- but it is a very rare occurrence. Obviously it happened in this time.
Typically you see it like the first 24 hours after the injection is the worst time. He had
this yesterday morning. It was overnight it was getting worse. This morning it was
probably its worst time than it has been since the injection. The good news is that
typically in 48 to 72 hours the turnaround is pretty good. So we are doing everything we
can medically to stop the response. That is the reason for the splint to immobilize the
joint. The oral medication for the inflammation and hopefully this will turn around real
quick and he will be fine tomorrow.

Q. Have you ever had cortisone shots before?

MIKE PIAZZA: Kind of lost count, actually. I have had a few. So really I was the last
person and we were the last people to think that this sort of reaction could happen. But I
am sort of sensing when they do injection they put a certain amount of like Novocaine or
some sort of numbing substance as well, and when that wore off I knew there was something
pretty wrong. It was extremely painful and very swollen and very stiff. Like I said, any
other part of the body besides your hands, it is just -- and it is cold and it is just one
of those things that you can't -- extremely frustrating. Like I said, I just hope it is
feeling better and I am sure the way we are treating it, it should be improved very
quickly.

Q. You made a comment the injury was prolonged over two weeks. Your numbers hadn't been
up batting. Were you in the lineup primarily for defense?

MIKE PIAZZA: I believe there is not really a week goes by where there is some little
small little nagging injury that you have just from the position itself. I had talked to
Fred about, less than two weeks ago, that there was a strain in my thumb and it was pretty
sore. But it was something that I was managing and I was playing with and we were just
doing some minor treatment and just using over-the-counter medication, things like that.
But I think coping with the cold day in Cincinnati, catching Al and then the night before
catching Kenny; catching Armando who throws, just it -- it was really taking a pounding.
That is when I thought the day off yesterday, I thought I should just get a precautionary
X-ray and get a shot, so it takes some pain away.

Q. Is it affecting the bat?

MIKE PIAZZA: I didn't feel like I had 100% of the strength in my left hand hitting-wise
and I felt like I just wasn't -- I mean, it wasn't anything like I haven't had in the
past, but it is just one of those things that you can just feel when you are getting the
bat through the zone it just didn't -- I wasn't able to control the bat as well as I would
have liked to.

Q. What technically are we calling this injury and would you have played if you hadn't
gotten that shot?

MIKE PIAZZA: Fred.
FRED HINA: The diagnosis is he has a sprain to the DIP (phonetic) joint of his left
thumb. Since the injection he has and inflamed left thumb.

Q. Sprained with a "P?"

FRED HINA: Yes, "P." He has an inflammation of that joint.

Q. Would you have played Mike if you hadn't had the shot?

MIKE PIAZZA: Well, that is hypothetical. That is tough to say. I am sure the -- I mean,
I am sure it would have been a lot more possible than without it. But as Fred said, it is
almost impossible to predict sort of a reaction like this. My best case scenarios would
have been feeling significantly better this morning with no swelling, but obviously that
is not the case, so -- it is tough to say. I am sure without it would have probably
treated it or taped it or done something else, but I guess everyone thought that that
would improve it. And obviously it didn't.

Q. Along the same lines, if this takes its place, the swelling goes down, long-term
prognosis, better than you have been before - with the doctor as well - how do you think
this injury is going to play itself out over the course of the series?

MIKE PIAZZA: Well, I mean, obviously I am going to be optimistic and like to think that
it is going to go down significantly and I will be able to get in there as soon as
possible. Again, I don't know how it is going to feel tomorrow or even later on tonight. I
am just going to -- I am going to take it kind of hour-by-hour. I hope it is feeling
better. I am sure it will be. I am confident and it if it is not 100% I am going to do
everything possible to either splint it up or tape it up and give it support and get in
there.

Q. Would your decision making process be affected by the outcome of this game; if the
Mets were to lose, would you try to rush it back?

MIKE PIAZZA: That is obviously a hypothetical. I mean, we will just see what happens.
Hopefully we will win and maybe it can buy me a few more hours or whatever is needed. So
who knows. I mean, again, if you can't -- you know, if it is stiff, I can't move it, I
can't catch, can't hit. That is obviously the most important thing. So even if I am in
there, it is not like I am going to -- if it is extremely painful, I am not going to be
able to do much with it anyway. I want to make sure that it is feeling better and make
sure I am able to contribute and make sure I can do something.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT