ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 3, 2019
Naib Gulbadin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English first.   
 Q.  (Regarding Hamid Hassan.)...after being hit.  He went down like it was pretty serious, but no one seemed to be that concerned.  
GULBADIN NAIB: No, no, he's fine.  Hassan was hit by the ball -- but, no, he's feeling well.   
 Q.  So you're not worried about him not playing tomorrow?  
GULBADIN NAIB: No, no.  He's ready to play.  It's good now.   
 Q.  And obviously you got Sri Lanka who, like you guys, are one of the lower-ranked teams.  This is a really a big opportunity for you guys, isn't it?  
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, definitely I saw the Sri Lankan play on TV, and they lost few games in last two years and they're struggling in one-day matches.   
Yeah, we have opportunity to do well against them.  I hope if play is 50 over, especially in the batting, so maybe definitely we can beat them.  So they also a good team, Sri Lanka, and we cannot take easy.  We can try to score big,  If we play 50 overs maybe difficult for them.   
 Q.  Your main strength is your spinner attack.  On this surface, we saw couple days ago New Zealand seamers had good purchase.  How would your seamers plan on this, and do you think the spinners will be ineffective?  
GULBADIN NAIB: Yeah, definitely if in the start the seamers bowl well, so automatically confident goes to the spinner side.  So we have a good spinner attack, like Rashid and Mujeeb.  They can spin anywhere any kind of conditions. So when in the start, when you've not got a good start, so definitely they on the back foot, especially the spinner side.  If you do well in the bowling I think especially in ten overs, so maybe everything will go well. So I have full confidence with the spinners.  We want momentum on the match, because they need the momentum of spinners like how they bowl, like especially Rashid and Mujeeb. Just one match if they grab the momentum, so maybe it's very difficult for all teams.   
 Q.  There is a big chance of rain tomorrow and obviously that might shorten the game.  Do you think that brings you guys in a little bit?  You didn't bat through your full 50 overs in the first game; basically bat down to No. 9 with a lot of hitters.  Do you think a shortened game might actually help you guys against Sri Lanka?  
GULBADIN NAIB: Today also it was also rain [predicted], but we not going for the weather.  Tomorrow we just tomorrow we can see what's the weather.  For my opinion, I think that maybe weather the same like this.  Hopeful.  So if we can reduce the overs it will be much better for us.  We have potential now so like limited overs, so like everyone knows about Afghanistan batting lineup, so it will be good.   
 Q.  What's the main message been to your players since Sunday in the defeat against Australia?  
GULBADIN NAIB: Just one thing:  we got to be positive.  If you look, we missed out on 12 overs[previous game], yet we score 200 plus.  If you have wickets in hands, so maybe the score is 300 plus something. So one thing we tell them, so if you stay on the wicket and you don't give wicket in the middle.  So if you have wickets in the hand last, we can do -- you have potential to do in the last ten overs 98 plus runs like this. So one thing I got it for that match, that side is champion's side, because they are coming very hard against us.  One thing the guys are take the positive note.  So if you stay in the wicket, maybe any of teams in this kind of surfaces and now in England, so 300 is not difficult to score. So one thing I got is just play your natural game and stay calm in the wicket.  This is the main thing.   
 Q.  Any changes in the team for tomorrow's game?  
GULBADIN NAIB: It's depend on tomorrow.  We saw the wicket, so come in the morning time and then we decide who is playing.   
 Q.  The wicket seems to be more suited for pacers.  Are you going to stick with the main three spinners, or will Aftab be making a comeback tomorrow?  
GULBADIN NAIB: It's depend on tomorrow.  We saw, yeah, wicket is suitable for the seamers, so it's looks like green.  But one match already played on the same wicket, so maybe tomorrow is -- I can't say anything, but we see tomorrow.  Then we decide.   
 Q.  How is the team's approach different in this competition where it is now down to ten teams.  How are you looking at this tournament as such?  
GULBADIN NAIB: If you look for the last game play against Australia, we did well a lot of things there, so definitely if you face this kind of team on the world stage, World Cup, top 10 teams playing there, you should be prepare well to playing against them. So I think we played how we played last two, three years cricket back, so we improve a lot of things, especially in domestic level.  We have good growth now.  Also on in this kind of level -- I'm seeing my team in a good level, so just need one good match in the start of the tournament so we take that momentum.  So maybe the tournament will be difficult for everyone.  Cannot say any one team.  So we have a good team now.  You have eight, nine games each team.  Maybe will be very difficult.  So think it's good for us here.  If you play this kind of matches only this kind of team, you take a lot of positive things and it's work in the future.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT