HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
July 1, 2005
Tina Barrett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TINA BARRETT:  Yeah, it was a good match, a little disappointed.
Q.  What was your read on the last putt?
TINA BARRETT:  I played it just left edge, maybe outside, I hit it a little too hard, probably should have kept it inside the hole.  It was a good try.  I had made good putts on 1 and 2.
Q.  Are you proud of the way you played against Annika?
TINA BARRETT:  Yeah, why not?  Yeah, she's obviously the No. 1 player in golf, and I think of all time as far as what I've seen.  She didn't really have her A Number One stuff today, but I played well.  I gave her a couple, she gave me a couple, that's kind of the way match play is.
Q.  In match play, you kind of expect your opponent to make every putt.  So were you expecting Annika drain that last one?
TINA BARRETT:  Yeah, it was looking good and it went in.  I had just made one right on top of her the hole before.  I had a lot of confidence in that putt.  I probably just overread it a little bit.
Q.  Does that go through your mind, her being the No. 1 player in the world during the match?
TINA BARRETT:  As I was playing, I was proud of the way I hung in there.  I don't get myself into contention as much as she does, but I'm hoping that this can help me when I do get into contention, maybe to be able to finish things off a little bit and handle the pressure and everything well.

I hit a couple bad shots, but those happen in golf.  I hung in there, and hopefully it can take me when I get myself into contention and hopefully play well and I look forward to hopefully having that happen.
Q.  The last shot at the par 3 looked to be all over the stick.  Did you think you were going to be closer than you were?
TINA BARRETT:  I didn't know.  It was a good shot.  I hit one more club than I did the first time.  So I got it back there and gave myself a great chance, and that's all you can do really.
Q.  How do you like your chances when you're walking off the 17th green?
TINA BARRETT:  Not that good.  Obviously you don't expect her    she hit a great drive.  You don't really expect her to hit it in the bunker, but I hit a great shot in there for my second shot, a 4 wood.  I just overread that putt a little bit, too.  It was a left to right putt and I either underread or overread.
Q.  What happened on the 15th?  You were 1 up and you had a short putt.
TINA BARRETT:  Yeah, that was probably a key putt right there.  That was another left to righter that I just played a little bit too much on.  Maybe hit it a little bit too hard.  That would have been big, because 16 is long for me.  Basically I was 50 yards behind her all day.  16 and 18 are pretty long holes for me, so that was big.
Q.  Are you in a way more relaxed playing Annika when she's obviously quote, unquote, supposed to win?
TINA BARRETT:  Yes, theoretically that's the case, but there are a lot of people that think that I could have won, including myself.  I'm not very relaxed on the golf course.  When I play good or bad, I'm a little bit intense out there, so no.
Q.  Were you looking at the score board and noticing that a lot of top seeds were falling?
TINA BARRETT:  I look at them.  I saw that Cristie Kerr lost.  It's match play.  It shows the depths of our tour and how good all of the players are.  In match play, anything can happen.

Yes, I watched the score board.  It's a fun tournament.
Q.  So does that provide any motivation?
TINA BARRETT:  No, not really, to be honest, I was just concentrating on our match.
Q.  What were your thoughts of going three extra holes with the No. 1 player in the world?
TINA BARRETT:  Yeah, it was fun, I had chills and I made the putt on 1 for par.  And then that one on No. 2 was fantastic.  So, it was really exciting.
Q.  So was that about 15 feet?
TINA BARRETT:  Yes, and I gave her hers.  She was only about a foot away.  I was pretty excited to make mine.
Q.  The last one?
TINA BARRETT:  My last one was about ten.
Q.  How did you feel about teeing off first throughout the entire playoff?
TINA BARRETT:  That was fun.  I just had to wait a little bit for the crowd to settle and stuff.  I played behind her last week at the U.S. Open, so I had to wait for the crowds to quiet down and clear out.  It's pretty exciting all of the people that come out to watch her.  And like I said, I got a little bit of a taste of it last week when I played directly behind her.  I was used to that.
Q.  Do you take any pride away from this match?
TINA BARRETT:  I think ultimately I'll be happy with the way I played for the most part.  I'll obviously be disappointed about a few shots, but ultimately, like I said earlier, I'm going to try to carry this on and use the experience.  If I get into contention later on this year, it will hopefully come in handy.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT