WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2002
Tina Barrett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







LAURA NEAL:  We'll just start with some comments about your round.  I bet you are glad to get in and get in time for dinner.
TINA BARRETT: Yeah, exactly last night was a little late finish although good pizza down the road.  So it wasn't too bad.  It worked out well for me the last two nights so I may even be going back there.  

Q.  Do you think the course is playing easier than expected?
TINA BARRETT: Yesterday obviously with the weather it didn't play  -- I don't think it bear its teeth like it did today a little bit.  Today it wasn't really that easy out there.  Some of the par 4s on the front nine especially are playing into the wind and pretty long.  2, 5, 9, 10 even isn't even playing really that easy.  I did play those fairly well.  Then you come back to the back,  it's little easier because it's downwind on some holes and that makes it a little easier.  17 playing downwind definitely is a bit easier.  Some of the other holes are, but I wouldn't say it's easy, no.  I think you've got to give this course the respect it deserves. 

Q.  We were told that now you've made nine consecutive cuts in your British Open appearances.  What is it that you like about this event?
TINA BARRETT:   I really enjoy coming over here.  I wouldn't miss it.  I don't know how anyone could miss coming and playing here with all the history, and new experiences, and the food and the pints and everything, it is just  -- it's different than what we have in the States, but to me, it is like one of the great things of being on the Tour is that we get to see places like this.  I feel so fortunate to be out there playing this course.

Q.  What is your favorite pint?
TINA BARRETT: I am more of a lager kind of person (laughs). 

Q.  How many do you have a night?
TINA BARRETT: No more than two because they are strong.  Actually I have been pretty good the last couple nights. 

No pints last night.  No pints the night before either.  Once the tournament starts the pints kind of dwindle down and then Sunday we'll have some more. 

Q.  What is it about links golf that suits your game?
TINA BARRETT: I am not sure that it totally suits my game.  I think I just really enjoy the experience of it, just so much different, and I kind of like to give myself that challenge.  I feel like my game is starting to come around.  I think if you are playing well can play well really on any course.  I was able to kind of control my trajectory a little bit today but I kind of hit the ball a little bit high so in a way it is a little bit difficult for me.  Some of the holes, like I said, into the wind were playing very difficult - like I didn't reach No. 2; I didn't reach No. 5;  No. 9 I couldn't reach.  10, drove it in the rough so I couldn't reach there either but I only played those holes 1-over.  So I mean, that's pretty good.  So I was pleased with that.  Like I said, then you get to the back nine, downwind, you can take advantage of it a little bit more.
I have a disadvantage just because I am a little bit of a shorter hitter than some of the other players.  I just have to play what I got, can't do anything different. 

Q.  It keeps you short of the bunkers, though.
TINA BARRETT: Sometimes it does.  Sometimes it's an advantage for sure but I have to kind of plan my second shot if I can reach it.  If it's blowing any harder than this, I am not going to be able to reach it tomorrow either.  It's not a big deal.  It's good, except I planned my second shot today so I have a good chip shot in.  But I could also reach a par 5 that I don't normally do.  No. 3 is playing pretty easy. 

Q.  Did you have to do some scrambling today?
TINA BARRETT: I did some good scrambling today and yesterday too a little bit.  Kind of kept the momentum of the round going.

Q.  Are you the kind of player who likes to shape the ball around a golf course?
 TINA BARRETT: Not really.  I am more of a kind of right-to-left, kind of slight-draw-player. 

Q.  What kind of advice can you give to the big names who missed the cut?
TINA BARRETT: I think they are doing fine.  I don't know who it is, but  -- 

Q.  Annika and Juli.
TINA BARRETT: Oh, it's pretty shocking really.  I don't think they need my advice, though.  I can take some advice from them really. 
I think they are having fine years and one tournament is not going to make or break their year.  But it can make or break mine, so.....




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT