WENDY'S CHAMPIONSHIP FOR CHILDREN
August 2, 2002
Tina Barrett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 MODERATOR:  Welcome, Tina.  If you want to talk about how you feel about your round, then we'll go over your score card.
TINA BARRETT:  Obviously, I feel pleased.  Four birdies, no bogeys.  You know, any time you play a round without a bogey, it's a good day. 
MODERATOR:  Do you want to go over your birdies. 
TINA BARRETT:  I birdied No.  13.  I laid up and hit an L-wedge from 75 yards or so, made about a 10-footer for birdie. 
I birdied 14.  Hit a 6-iron.  That was a nice putt, about 25 feet. 
Then on the Front  9, I birdied No.  5, also the par 5, down the hill.  Hit a gap-wedge about six feet. 
Then No.  9, I hit a 4-wood over the green, hit a good chip and run, then made like about a two-footer.  I hit my shot over the green, chipped up. 
MODERATOR:  Questions. 
Q.   (Inaudible)?
TINA BARRETT:  I haven't really seen the scores to be honest, sorry.  In a way.  It's kind of hard to get the ball kind of close.  The greens have gotten real firm in the last couple days with the heat and stuff.  I mean, especially compared to Tuesday.  Tuesday they were totally holding, and the fairways were real soft.  Now you're getting a lot of roll, which is making the course play shorter, but more difficult approach shots in, so... 

Q.   Seems like people are taking advantage of the three par 5s, which you can take advantage of.  Do you see that as maybe two days from now being the difference in the tournament, who can make the most birdies on the par 5s?
TINA BARRETT:  I think it's always who can make a lot of birdies on the par 5s.  I think that's where the best players and the players that are in contention are making up ground, for sure. 
Actually, I talked about that with my teacher the other day, how we really need to take advantage of the par 5s a lot more than I've been doing this year.  It was good that I got, what, three of them today.  That was good.  I'm not a long hitter, so my wedge shots need to be closer. 

Q.   With it drying out, are the greens still holding?  If you're getting roll on the fairway, are you rolling through the green if you hit a shot in?
TINA BARRETT:  They're getting pretty firm, especially the wind picked up just a little bit, a few of the holes were downwind.  Tough to hold it.  They have these moundy things.  If they're tucked behind a mound, then it's a little bit more difficult to hold them. 
I would think the afternoon groups might have a disadvantage, too, because they're getting just a little bit chewed up, you know, some spike marks and stuff.  They're only going to get firmer.  They're rolling well, but they're getting just a few kind of like cleat marks on them. 

Q.   The noticeable difference between here and New Albany -- and did you play there?
TINA BARRETT:  Yeah, one year.

Q.   A noticeable difference was the yardage.  This is playing over 6500 yards, which is one of the longest courses on this tour.  Doesn't seem so far that the distance is giving you guys much problem.  Is that because of the roll you're getting?
TINA BARRETT:  Yeah.  I think, you know, when I played the practice round Tuesday, I thought, "This course is a bomber's course."  By the ProAm on Thursday, I mean, you're getting like 20 yards of roll.  If we get a storm again tonight, it will be a whole different story tomorrow.  It will play a lot longer. 
There's a couple longer holes, like 7 is kind of long.  Couple holes maybe on the Back  9 are a little bit longer.  But you can hit a lot of them, you catch a downslope, too.  That makes it play shorter.

Q.   If it does stay this way, we don't get the rain tonight, if it doesn't go back to being a bomber's course, do you think it's pretty much opens it up for a lot of players to win?
TINA BARRETT:  Yeah, definitely.  You know, obviously the fairways are very, very wide.  First impression on Tuesday, when it was so wet, it was playing long.  But, like I said, it's kind of changed.  My caddie and I were talking.  It's more of a second-shot course anyway with those greens. 

Q.   Was it an eventful round?  Did you have many up and downs?  Were you close to birdies on other holes?
TINA BARRETT:  I actually missed the first three greens, made nice up and downs on all those.   That kind of got me going.  Then I birdied, like I said, the 13th hole.  I one-putted my first six holes.  That was a good start (laughter). 
I made a real nice up and down on 12.  Hit it over the green there.  11, made a nice up and down after driving it in a divot, missing the green to the right.  Even the 1st hole, I missed the hole just barely to the right.  I birdied 13, 14, got up and down on 15, too.  One-putted the first six, so it was good.  Disappointed with the 2-putt on 16, though (laughter). 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT