MLB WORLD SERIES: PHILLIES v YANKEES
October 31, 2009
Gerry Davis
Jeff Nelson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







New York Yankees 8
  Philadelphia Phillies 5

 Q. Just in reviewing that play, is it just automatic if it hits the camera? Because it looks like part of the camera comes over the fence onto the field. So when you guys look at that replay, what's the judgment you make on it?
 GERRY DAVIS: As many of you know, we tour the field during the series whenever we go to a new ballpark, and discuss specific ground rules and potential trouble areas just like that. 
 Because we cannot control what the cameraman does with the camera, one of the specific ground rules is when the ball hits the camera, home run. 

 Q. Are there just so many nooks and crannies in places where you look at and say if this, if that, it's not easy to go to the lineup cards and tell them about everything you guys have seen to apprise them of all possibilities?
 GERRY DAVIS: That's correct, that's exactly what we do. The cameras down the lines are just an example of what we do. There are yellow lines everywhere in the ballpark, as well. Down the foul line itself, there's one pole that's in play if it's hit. If it hits lower, a home run if it hits higher. So in answer to the question, that's exactly what we do. If it does this, here's the ruling. 

 Q. Just a thought: Is instant replay to you more of an assistance or a nuisance to your job?
 GERRY DAVIS: I think it's an assistance. Our objective is to get every play correct, and on boundary calls, that's one of the toughest things we have, and there's no question that it helps. 

 Q. On a different topic, Gerry, as the crew chief, what were the deliberations like with the Commissioner before the game about the weather situation? 
 GERRY DAVIS: Well, obviously when you're dealing with weather, that tends to change pretty rapidly. We were ready to go, and then a couple strands that were separated and we thought we had some time in between converged and caused the next rain to be heavy. So we thought we were better to wait and make sure we don't lose any pitchers because in a game of this magnitude obviously you don't want to start the game and have a long delay and force people to go to different pitchers. 

 Q. What was your view of the play as it happened? 
 JEFF NELSON: You just focus on the area that you think the ball is going to hit based on how the ball is hit, how it's traveling. In this particular play, the ball hit something hard, solid, and it was -- in my judgment it was the top of the fence. And then when Joe came out, Joe just said, "We think it hit a fan." I said, "It didn't hit a fan, it hit something solid. But we'll talk about it." We talked about it, and we decided to use the replay. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT