NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 22, 2011
Daniel Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. The Canucks winning awards, how do you feel about that? 
 DANIEL SEDIN: I think we should be happy, we should be proud of the team and our players. We're going to have a lot of years going forward and we're going to be a good team. We should be excited and I know our team is. 

 Q. Your reaction to the Hart? 
 DANIEL SEDIN: I was happy for Corey, he carried that team through a lot of injuries and the final stats he had was unbelievable, he helped them make the playoffs, which is great. Well deserved and I'm happy for him. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 DANIEL SEDIN: It's close. I mean, like I said before, I think it means a lot to me, I was happy to win it, the Hart is probably the greatest award for an individual as a player. It's been a fun night. 

 Q. Daniel, Mike was up here earlier and he talked about getting over what happened in the Stanley Cup final, the decompression factor. Can you comment on what that's going to be like for you? 
 DANIEL SEDIN: I think you have to. This was a good night for us, for us as an organization and as a team we had a lot of players here we should be proud of.
 What we have and we know we're going to have a good team next year and for a lot of years going forward. So we should be proud and just got to get back to work. The season is coming up pretty soon.

 Q. Short summer obviously but your organization is going to have a bit more money to work with the cap going up, Mike said it means they have more money to spend but you've got to feel good about that because it increases the possibility that some of your team mates will be back with you?
 DANIEL SEDIN: Yeah, that's the one thing I like about the team is we are so close as teammates and friends, and you never want to see your friends leave your team so hopefully we can get everyone to sign, we'll see what happens. 
 I know it a business, but we would be happy to have the same team play for us next year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT