NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 15, 2011
Daniel Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Daniel Sedin.  
  
  Q. I don't want to put words in your mouth, but it sounds like you said "We're going to win Game 7"?  
 DANIEL SEDIN: You know, that was probably me being excited and the words came wrong out of my mouth. What I said was if we put our best game on the ice, I like our chances. That's the way it's been all year. When we play our best, we're a tough team to beat. We show that at home.   
 We like our chances.   
  
  Q. Even if you had said that, that's what you need to believe, right?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: Absolutely. If you don't believe that in this room, we're screwed. So everyone, we believe in ourselves here, and it's no different now.   
 We should be proud of what we've done this year so far. Taking this to a Game 7, home ice advantage in the Stanley Cup finals, what else can you ask for?   
 We're out to enjoy it and we're going to play our best game of the season. I'm sure if we do that, we will have a good chance.   
  
  Q. You never know who the hero might be, someone is going to be a hero.   
 DANIEL SEDIN: That's the best thing about it. We're going to go out there and every shift is going to be important. Whatever you do out there is going to be for the good of the team, and that's what's fun about players.   
 Everything is on the line and you can be the hero any given moment, so it's a lot of fun.   
  
  Q. Daniel, what does leadership mean today?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: I think you go out there and play your best. I think nothing needs to be said today. I think we've said enough throughout this year to be prepared. If you're prepared enough, I think that's what good leaders do. They show up every game during the regular season and in the playoffs and lead by examples.   
 So right now, nothing needs to be said, we go out and play our game. Like I said, if we play our game to our best, we like our chances.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT