NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 12, 2011
Roberto Luongo
Daniel Sedin
Henrik Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for the players?   
  
  Q. Daniel and Henrik, comment on the power play. Has it been there and you haven't seen the fruits or is there something fundamentally wrong with it now?   
 HENRIK SEDIN: It's gotten better, our last game was a big step in the right direction. It's our job to get rebounds and do a better job in front. Look forward to tomorrow's game and hopefully get a bounce because we've been working hard for those.   
  
  Q. You guys have combined for only two points in this final working hard. It's just not there obviously. Seeing as Alex Burrows said you communicate like dolphins, do you have to go to film? Do you get coached on how things work or can you work it out between you to try to get points in between you?   
 HENRIK SEDIN: No. We work it out with Alex and whoever is on the point. Like you said, we're still confident. You lose confidence when you're cheating or doing things wrong.   
 But this is a tough team. They don't give up a whole lot of chances. If you're going to start cheating to get points, it's going to hurt us more, so...  
 Like I said, we're battling hard. They are a good team. We know we aren't going to get the chances maybe we get usually. That's the way it is. We have to bear down and get chances and find a way to beat Tim Thomas.   
  
  Q. Roberto, Boston has talked about getting more traffic. They practiced it quite a bit today. What are you expecting from them in the front?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: I think it's part of every team's game plan. That's the way we try to score goals. That's the way pretty much every other 29 teams want to score. That's the way you score in this league. You've gotta get gritty. You gotta go to the hard areas, whack away at rebounds, tips, screens, all that kind of stuff.   
 Especially when a team plays good defensively, you gotta get your noses dirty to get some goals. So for me, nothing changes. Just play my game. Make sure that I stay as focused on the puck and not get distracted by all the other stuff.   
  
  Q. Henrik and Daniel, it's funny that you were drafted here and you could lift the puck in it. What memory sticks out from draft day and what didn't you know about this journey that you know now?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: From draft day, I think always we were excited that Vancouver picked us both for the same team. That was a big surprise for us. We didn't expect that. Over this ten years, we know what a tough league this is. We've been through up's and down's and we learn a lot.   
 I think we grow as people and as hockey players and that's the most important thing.   
  
  Q. There's all kinds of coverage and comments about what you said about being able to make the Maxim Lapierre save yourself. Given that buzz, do you regret making that comment?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Listen, I know we're in the Stanley Cup final and everything is under the microscope and going to get blown out of proportion. Obviously my whole comment I don't think was a negative comment if you take the whole comment.  
 But at the end of the day, I'm one win away from winning a Stanley Cup and that's all I really care about now. All the other stuff is noise to me and doesn't really affect what's going to take place for me tomorrow night.   
 To be honest with you, I don't really care.   
  
  Q. All season long you guys have talked about being even keeled, not too high, not too low. How difficult is it to maintain that calmness when you are just one win away?   
 HENRIK SEDIN: I think it's natural to be excited. We're in a great spot. Like Louie said, we're one win away from winning it, so we're excited.  
 But we know if we get out of our comfort zone and start getting overly excited, it's going to take away from our game. That's a key for us, to come in here tomorrow and play the way we have all year.   
  
  Q. Henrik, what do you make of the fact that you guys have the three wins, but just about every stat in this series is in their favor except that? Why have the games went so different than they were in Vancouver?   
 HENRIK SEDIN: I don't know why it is. I don't think we've come up to our standards here in Boston. Why it is? I don't know. We're hoping to fix it tomorrow.   
 I think all the stats are just because of those two games where we didn't play the way we wanted to. Other than that, the stats that we look at, the scores stats and stuff like that, we're in good shape.   
 So we're going to come out tomorrow, play the best game of our lives and we're looking forward to it.   
  
  Q. Do you consider this the biggest game you ever played?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: Absolutely, both Louie and us played in the Olympic finals and that's obviously a big game, too. But as a hockey player, this is what you want to win. It's the toughest thing you can win. You work so hard with your friends and teammates to get to this point.   
 We're going to enjoy it. Like Henrik said, hopefully we can put a better game on the ice tomorrow and we'll be fine.   
  
  Q. Roberto, you mentioned being one win away from a Stanley Cup. You've been on the edge of an Olympic gold medal. Any differences or similarities in those two moments?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: They're both unbelievable but very different. You know, the Olympics is a very short tournament. This is a two-month grind, you know, probably one of the hardest things we've ever had to do, you know, as a team.   
 In the end, if you come out on top, it's the most rewarding thing that you can probably do as an athlete.   
  
  Q. Roberto, you've had two very different games here than you had at home, you personally. Is there anything that you can think of to account for the fact, whether it be the building, the atmosphere, the ice here, as to why you had trouble here and very little trouble at home?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: I think all year long I've been comfortable on the road and at home, so that doesn't make a difference for me. I don't want to start making excuses for what happened here in the first two games. Obviously I think maybe they got the first goal, a couple of lucky bounces whatever it was. And as a team, we got away from the game plan and myself included.   
 Tomorrow night is all about having fun, making sure you enjoy the moment, come ready to play hard and lay it all on the line and see what happens.   
  
  Q. Roberto, can you just compare what you had in your mind about what the grind would be like to go this distance and what reality has been for you?   
 ROBERTO LUONGO: Um, you know, I think it's been more challenging mentally than physically, and I didn't expect that as much.   
 You know, I think you learn a lot about yourself throughout the process and what it takes to win. Right now, obviously we haven't done anything to this moment, but we feel that we're close and we're excited about that opportunity that we have in front of us.   
 So myself included, we just want to go out there tomorrow night and play as hard as we could and enjoy it. Hopefully we'll have something special at the end of it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT