NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 7, 2011
Daniel Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Daniel.   
  
  Q. Your teammate gets four games, your thoughts on the severity of the punishment?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: Yeah, I mean, we totally disagree. We support Rome. He's a hard-working guy. He has no intention to hurt anyone out there.   
 At the same time you never want to see a guy leave the ice like that. Certainly support Rome.   
  
  Q. As far as you're concerned, there shouldn't have been a suspension?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: No. We have to move on, another game tomorrow. But we don't agree with the suspension.   
  
  Q. Do you think it's easier for them to throw the book at Aaron Rome than somebody else making the hit?  
 DANIEL SEDIN: Rome was killed in San Jose and nothing happened. Now he gets four games. I don't know.   
  
  Q. In Chicago they used the hit on Seabrook as a little bit of a rallying point. I'm sure the Bruins will try for the same thing. How do you take that away from them?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: I think we're thinking of Rome right now. He's a hard-working guy, great teammate and a friend. He's going to be out of the playoffs. It should be a rallying cry for us, too.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding the power-play.)   
 DANIEL SEDIN: That was the difference in the game. They scored a few on the power-plays, a few on our power-plays, too. Five-on-five we're still playing well. Power-plays need to be better.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 DANIEL SEDIN: No, you still got to look at the game, what you did wrong. After today's practice, some meetings, I think we'll forget about last night's game and move on.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding Roberto being able to bounce back.)   
 DANIEL SEDIN: That's not a problem. Can't really say it was his fault. As a team, we didn't help him out. As I said, they scored a few on the power-play, a few on our power-play, which shouldn't happen.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding Tim Thomas.)   
 DANIEL SEDIN: Like I said, five-on-five I think we're doing a good job. But we need to score on our power-play. We've done it all year, done it in the playoffs. It hasn't been good for the first three games. We need to be better. It's costing us games right now. You don't have to score on the power-play, but you have to at least gain some momentum for your team. We're not doing that right now.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT