NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 2, 2011
Henrik Sedin
Daniel Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about Burrows, what he brings to the line, extracurricular activities you have seen over the years?  
 SEDIN: He brings a lot to the line. I think people in the past thought we need a big body that goes to the net and stands there.   
 But, I mean, he's good in the forecheck. He turns a lot of pucks over for us. He knows where to go. He's involved in our game and he finds those spots where he can get shots away.   
 He's done a great job for us and we're excited to play with him.   
  
  Q. How relieved are you that he's not going to be suspended and will play in Game 2?   
 SEDIN: We need him out there. He plays in every situation. Big part of this team. Obviously we're happy to have him inside the rink.   
  
  Q. Henrik, do you see a different Roberto inside the locker room that he's no longer the captain? Does that make him easier for him to do his job?   
 HENRIK SEDIN: I think you have to ask him. I think he seems more relaxed. He seems to enjoy the game. Can't say he didn't do that last year. But, like I said, if you ask him, he might have a different answer. But he seems like he's relaxed.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding Thomas wandering outside the crease.)   
 SEDIN: I don't think he tries to take advantage. That's his game. He's always played like that.   
 I think if you look at Burr's call yesterday, he's a couple feet outside of the crease. I think it's something the referees know. They know a lot of time when there's contact, he's outside the crease, so that's not a penalty.   
 Like I said, I think the guys in stripes, they talk about that. They know what's going on. It's not going to be a problem for us.   
  
  Q. Henrik, your thoughts on never trailing so far in the playoffs when it comes to series leads, up 1-0?   
 HENRIK SEDIN: It makes it easier. I mean, to go down 1-0 starting at home, you face a must-win the next game. It's the playoffs. All of a sudden the series is over.   
 For us it's been key. Every year we've been here, we have really had good starts to the series. So we know Saturday is a big game for us. If we can play like we did yesterday, I think we have a good chance of being up 2-0.  
  
  Q. Back to the biting incident, Alexandre Burrows said the explanation he gave Patrice was, Your hand was in my mouth, what am I supposed to do? Have you heard from teammates what he did?  
 SEDIN: He didn't say much after the game. Didn't say much this morning. Haven't seen what happened. Can't really comment on that.   
  
  Q. For both of you guys, I'm wondering how positive you view the fact that once last night's game became more of a five-on-five game, that's when you started to dominate the game, given the fact Boston is a good five-on-five team?   
 SEDIN: Yeah, I mean, it seems like every game in this playoffs, we've taken over halfway through the game or in the third period. I mean, throughout the years, we're a good five-on-five team. We take a lot of pride in playing five-on-five. We're not a team that is going to have guys that cheat offensively to get goals.   
 They've had a good playoffs five-on-five. But, like I said, we think we're as good as them. We like our chances when we're both five guys on the ice.   
  
  Q. Either of you, I'm wondering about the ice conditions. Didn't look that good. Saturday is supposed to be a sunny day here. It will probably be hot in Boston. Will it affect your game if the ice conditions are poor?   
 SEDIN: Well, I think the ice is usually pretty good in our rink. I think yesterday, it was fairly good. Come Saturday, I think it's going to be the same conditions. We have great people working on the ice, so it shouldn't be a problem.   
  
  Q. Growing up in Sweden, when did you first become aware of the Stanley Cup? What is your first memory of it and when did it become a goal for you?   
 SEDIN: I think the first time was when (indiscernible) won it. Then later on, I think with Peter Forsberg winning in Colorado, that's when they really started to cover it more back in Sweden.   
 For us, you don't realize how big it is before you spend some years here. I mean, losing out, you realize how tough of a journey it is to get all the way. I think after one or two years here, you realize this is the main thing you can win as a hockey player.   
  
  Q. A lot is made of Zdeno Chara, other defensemen. Andrew Ference, what kind of challenges do you face with him?   
 SEDIN: They have a good defensive team. You can't really look at only their defensemen. I think they play good five-on-five because they have a five-man unit that works out there together. I think that's what you got to beat when you play Boston. You got to get pucks deep and try to play your game.   
 Ference is a good skating defenseman, can move the puck.   
  
  Q. He seemed to get under one or both of your skins yesterday. Was there anything there?   
 SEDIN: No, I don't think so (laughter). I don't know what happened. It was nothing.   
  
  Q. Henrik, talk about the third line.   
 HENRIK SEDIN: Yeah, a lot of teams, they have third lines that can skate and they can hit, they put some good shifts together. Us, when we have those guys, they score those goals, San Jose when they tied the game in the first game there, some other games, it's a huge boost for your team.   
 It's always great when they can, like I said, have some shifts to work their forecheck. But to have them score goals as well, that's been a big key for us going this far.   
  
  Q. Henrik, you didn't have any shots. Daniel, you had eight. Was there a reason for that?   
 SEDIN: It's always like this. We had eight together. That's how I see it.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT