NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
May 31, 2011
Daniel Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Daniel.   
 DANIEL SEDIN: It's been great. This is what you play your whole life for. It's a nice feeling. We have a lot of work ahead of us, but right now we're enjoying the moment.   
  
  Q. How much are you looking forward to putting the video away and playing?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: It's been a long break. If you want to go a long way in the playoffs, you need some good days off and good practice days. We've been getting that. We're ready to go now.  
  
  Q. Power-play, why has it been so good in the playoffs?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: It was good in the regular season, too. We've been scoring some timely goals. Have two really good groups going out there. If we don't score, we have a second group that's equally as good. I think that's the key to having a good power-play.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you've built momentum?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: Yeah, I think in the playoffs it can go either way. If you don't have success early, you can get down on yourself, lose some confidence. But we've been good throughout the regular season. And even in the playoffs starting out, I think we built some confidence there, too.   
  
  Q. Boston is going to want to keep this a five-on-five series.   
 DANIEL SEDIN: We'll see what the referees are going to call. I think five-on-five, it's going to be a tight series, low scoring. Both teams are very good defensively. It will be a tight matchup.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 DANIEL SEDIN: Well, I mean, we had some good practice days, a few days off. I think it's been good overall.   
 We had a good scrimmage yesterday. Other than that, we try to work on our game and get better. That's the main focus.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 DANIEL SEDIN: We don't see them that much. It's tough to say when you play them once or twice a year. We'll get a good look at them tomorrow and see what happens.   
 For our team, I think it's how we play. If our line doesn't score, it's going to be other lines stepping up. That's how it's been throughout these playoffs.   
  
  Q. Talk about that telepathic link with your brother. Do you buy that?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: I don't buy it at all. It's because we play together a long time. We played on the same line since we were 12 years old. It has nothing to do with telepathic.   
  
  Q. Do you strategize on the bench at all?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: No. As a line, we try to play the same way every game. I mean, Burr is a very smart player. He fits in really well, reads the play extremely good.   
 As a line, we're not very good at a lot of things, but we do a lot of things good enough, if you put it that way.   
  
  Q. Do you have a different link with Burr than your brother?   
 DANIEL SEDIN: What do you mean? He's like a third brother. I mean, when he came on our line, like two and a half years ago, I think you could feel right away, like I said, he understands how we play. I think we support each other on the ice really well. He's a hard-working guy, fits in really well. He's a heck of a player.   
   
    
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT