TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 10, 2018
Kliff Kingsbury
TJ Vasher
Antoine Wesley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Texas - 41, Texas Tech - 34
Q. Speak to the comeback and the effort that your kids gave tonight.
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, that's kind of a signature of this team.  It's just a shame, some of these we haven't been able to close, this is the third Big-12 game that we had three plus turnovers and lost because of it and that can't happen.  You play these better teams and you got to protect the football.  And we didn't get any takeaways, we didn't play very good defensively.  And you got to give them credit, I thought their offense played really well.  Quarterback threw it well, Humphrey is a really good player and they made more plays than us.
Q. What did you think of Jett's performance?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I thought it was good.  I thought that it would have been easy to fold after that last fumble.  And he competes his tail off.  He had a great look in his eye the entire time.  The first interception he was just trying to do too much, dropped the snap, just should have thrown it away.  Then he was loose with the football on the one and they took it from him on the other.  But he gave us a chance to win with his mental toughness there at the end and the way he competed.  So we got to clean those things up.  That's on me as his coach, but he fought hard.
Q. The decision to go for it right before the half is that something you would like to have over again?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: No, I thought that we had been great on quarterback sneak, it was about six inches, they just had a 19-play drive and they were holding the football and I didn't think we could go three and out again.  So trying to get a spark and we just didn't get it.  But I would do it 10 out of 10 times.
Q. So that was trying to get some momentum?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: We had gone three and out they had a 19-play drive, they were leaning on us, I didn't think we could put the defense out there.  I thought we would get it.  We had been really good on that play but just didn't get it.  But I would do it again.
Q. Was it a lack of execution on the play?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: I think they made a good play and I think that we didn't get the push that I thought we could get.  So a little bit of both.  But you got to give them credit for getting that six inches and, like I said, I think we were about 7-7 on the year on getting those and we just didn't get it.
Q. Little frustrated maybe about the play on Jett that wasn't called?  It looked like he was down and he it looked like he got hit.
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Our guy, yeah, they seemed to protect the quarterback in this league, but I don't know, he didn't get that call.  So you would like to have him be protected as well.
Q. Was Dakota not able to go there?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, he tried it, he tried it and he just wasn't, didn't feel a hundred percent and so we put Rico in and he competed hard.  I got to watch the film and see how he played, but he just, Dakota didn't practice much all week, we thought it would be a game-time deal and he didn't feel a hundred percent.
Q. Did you give any consideration at all after the three turnovers to making a change or did you feel like that Jett was --
KLIFF KINGSBURY: No, I thought he was playing well outside of that, his ball security issues and really not decision making, the first one he dropped the snap, kind of went into panic mode, was really trying to throw it away, didn't get enough on it, picked it off.  The next two he made good plays there, he's just got to secure it in traffic so I thought he was locked in and playing at a high level, but we got to protect the ball better.  But he was making plays the entire night.
Q. What's up with Dakota, the play down there in the end zone, the touchdown pass to Humphrey, the coverage there?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I got to watch it on tape, I didn't really see it I was kind of talking through what we are were going to do on offense and so I have to watch the tape.
Q. I know you said on the radio after the game that you didn't consider going for two.  It was more about the time that was left, right?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: No doubt.  1:45 you get it, they're going to go and try and kick a field goal either way.  I felt like with the momentum we had, at home, let's score, let's go to overtime and that seemed like the play to me.
Q. Do you feel snake bit?  Last week you start strong, 14-0 lead, can't finish.  This week start strong.
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, not snake bit, I just feel bad for our team in that we're fighting hard, we're playing with great effort, we have a few too many penalties here or there, we got to clean up some little things, but you'd like to see a better result on some of these where they're playing with that much effort and that much heart and together and continue to fight.  But we just haven't been able to close it and that comes with doing it.  You got to be able to do it so you can reach back and see the next time it happens and learn from that and we just haven't gotten over that hump this season.
Q. How did you feel about the running game tonight?
TOM HERMAN: I thought Da'Leon played well.  He's given us a burst, he's back to being healthy and did some good things.  Jett did some good things.  We thought we would have a shot to get him in space and we did at times and so that was improved from last week I thought.
Q. Obviously Antoine really picked it up in the second half, in the first half, he made a couple of plays there.
KLIFF KINGSBURY: They had a bunch of cloud coverage so they were rotating two guys which was smart.  When we had our opportunity to get his one-on-ones I thought Jett did a good job of seeing the field and getting it there.  In both cases, when TJ had his one on ones he found him so I thought Jett was seeing the field well.
Q. Outside of the turnovers was this the best game Jett has played?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, it's what I've expected since we signed him, honestly, that type of dynamic playmaker.  You're going to get better with experience and you just got to protect the football better.  And that's his second game to ever start, and so he's got to learn from it and be better next time.  But he can make plays and he's as competitive as any guy I've been around.  He doesn't blink in those situations and he's got a bunch of things you want we just got to clean up the turnovers.
Q. What did you think when it's 27-17 there and a bunch of people are already leaving?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: Yeah, I mean that's kind of par for the course right now with our fans.  So it is what it is.  We got to win and they got to stick around.
Q. Did you think when it was -- this might be a crazy question, but starting 34-34 did you think about pooching it over the top or maybe trying to --
KLIFF KINGSBURY: No, I thought that we had some momentum on defense too.  We got some good stops, I thought we would be able to stop them, so wanted to kick it deep and play defense and we just weren't able to do that.
Q. What did you see on the penalty on third and 33?
KLIFF KINGSBURY: You can't do that.  I didn't see it, but it was egregious enough for them to throw it away from the football.  The ball wasn't even over there and that's just undisciplined football, you can't play for us if you're going to make those mistakes on third and 33.  That was a huge play in the game.
Q. Did you feel like you guys could pull off one of the great comebacks?
ANTOINE WESLEY: Yeah, we could have, it just didn't do little things right at the end.  So kind of messed us up a little bit.
Q. Despite the loss, you still played a heck of a game.  What did you think about your performance?
ANTOINE WESLEY: Really doesn't matter.  If we lose, I could have a thousand yards a game, like it doesn't matter.  I want my team to win and for them seniors to be their last game I wanted that W for them so bad.  So it doesn't mean nothing to me about my stats in the game and I don't care.
Q. On their game winning touchdown, obviously you were watching the play and I'm not asking you to criticize a teammate but just a great play by Lil'Jordan Humphrey there to go up high and get that ball?
ANTOINE WESLEY: No, he did an awesome job of attacking the ball in the air and I give him great props for that, he's been doing a great job this season so good luck for him this season.
Q. What motivates you guys at this point for the remaining two games?
ANTOINE WESLEY: Really just the older guys, the seniors, make sure we're getting them another game after the season for the bowl game so that's what we pretty much plan on doing.
Q. Can you speak to the mental toughness of Jett, three turnovers and then the way he came back and played in the fourth quarter?
ANTOINE WESLEY: No, we told him it's football, that happens.  It's like a roller coaster in the game so we just kept him up and he just does what he does best and made plays.
Q. What did you want to see from Jett that fourth quarter and his ability to lead you guys to tie the game?
TJ VASHER: Just what we have always seen, a lot of fight, a lot of will and just a lot of ability to make plays when nobody expects them to be made.
Q. What's the locker room like right now?
TJ VASHER: I mean upset.  Let one go that we feel like we shouldn't let go.  Texas played a pretty good game but we're never okay with a loss.  So everybody's pretty upset right now.
Q. How does this team take that next step because it seems like last week, this week, seems like some of the games you are fighting back and getting close and showing the fight you can get those games but what does it take to actually take that last step and pull out the victory?
TJ VASHER: I feel like we're still trying to figure that out.  Being kind of a little young on the offensive side, just mistakes, penalties and let things like that get away from us, game wasn't bad, we just kind of let some things slip away on our own that shouldn't have happened.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT