NHL ALL-STAR WEEKEND
January 18, 1998
Theoren Fleury
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Kind of an East-West kind of game.  Lots of goals. Not a lot of body checking.  I think the fans got some fun out of it.

THEOREN FLEURY:  I guess it was intense.  Got doubts in the nitty-gritty there.  They battled back in the third period.  They made a game of it.  We put Jacques' neutral zone trap in effect to protect the league.


Q.  He wasn't using that, was he?

THEOREN FLEURY:  No (laughter).


Q.  When you were behind 3-0, what were you guys thinking?

THEOREN FLEURY:  I think everybody said, "Hey, we've got to pick it up here or it's going to be a long afternoon."  I thought we played a real good game.  The other team had so much talent, so much skill. We try to muck it in the corners, get our goals that way.  But I think all-around it was fun. 


Q.  Mark's 37th?

THEOREN FLEURY:  That was a great shot.  What a play by Gretz, too.  We've all seen that before:


Q.  What did you think about the concept of this game and how it went?

THEOREN FLEURY:  I thought it was excellent.  I thought both teams played well.  Goaltending was a little bit of a surprise, some weak goals there.  Other than that, I thought it was pretty entertaining, fun for the fans.


Q.  Did you find it difficult to adjust your style of play to this type of style, wide open?  You got a penalty, was that the highlight of the game for you?

THEOREN FLEURY:  I guess so, yeah (laughter).  I think we're all here because we're great offensive players in the league.  I think this is what the game is all about, the All-Star Game, just to go out and have some fun, you know, showcase your talent.


Q.  (Inaudible)

THEOREN FLEURY:  That was fun playing with those guys, you know.  Fun to play with those guys all year, that's for sure.


Q.  Seemed the longer the game went on, the more you kind of got into it?

THEOREN FLEURY:  Yeah, for sure.  Down 3-0 before we came and really got our legs and got into it.  But after that, I thought we played pretty well.


Q.  (Inaudible)

THEOREN FLEURY:  No, we wanted to win the game, of course.


Q.  (Inaudible)

THEOREN FLEURY:  We were talking about it.  "Let's go out and get it.  Let's go out and win this game.  We're here, we might as well win it."


Q.  Are you surprised at how fast the pace was?

THEOREN FLEURY:  No, not at all.  I think we had like, I don't know, 45 shots.  I thought it was a good game.  It was fast-paced.  There was a lot of skill out there.  You know, it was fun.


Q.  Seems like there was a lot of passing, creative passing.  Were you surprised to see that?

THEOREN FLEURY:  Oh, just look at all the names on the back of the sweaters.  We're all here because we're great offensive players.  I think that's what the game is all about, the All-Star Game anyway, to showcase our best players in our league and have some fun.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT