UL INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 22, 2016
Karrie Webb
Rebecca Artis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Karrie, just the difference in the days, yesterday to today.  What was the big difference?
KARRIE WEBB: Well, obviously we changed the pairings up.  We got no points yesterday, so we thought it wouldn't hurt.  Getting three points out of four, I think we're pretty happy with that.  Minjee birdied the last to get that half, which I think is huge.
Q. Was there a lot of thought that went into the original pairings, or is it just you can't really make a mistake in this?
KARRIE WEBB: I think if you look at anyone that's played Solheim Cup, maybe you can say they've made mistakes if they don't pair the right people together, but we haven't had that experience, so there was no method to our madness, it was just put those pairings out.
I think if a few things had gone our way yesterday, we could have gotten points on the board, but it just turned out that these two pairings worked.
Q. When you do get shut out on a tough day, do you try to say anything?  Do you try to make sure that attitudes are in a certain place last night?
KARRIE WEBB: No, I think we're all professionals.  We know how to carry ourselves.  Su didn't have a great day yesterday, so I just wanted her to know that it's a fresh day, and even if she had a bad hole, I think yesterday she carried bad holes into the next, and it's a brand new tournament, brand new round on the next hole.  You don't have to carry over whatever happened on the hole before.  She played unbelievable from what I hear.
Q. How much is this event talked about outside of the LPGA?
REBECCA ARTIS: For me personally, being an Aussie and not being able to play the Solheim Cup, in the two-year period in between each -- it was a huge goal for me.  I just wanted -- I had wanted to be able to play on the team.  One of the biggest reasons for me personally is that I know Webby will retire maybe sometime soon, and I just wanted to get that opportunity to be able to go out and play in a team format with Webby.  She's been one of my idols growing up as a young Aussie, growing up watching Webby do what she's done.  It's been awesome for me.
Q. Have you ever been partners in a match?
REBECCA ARTIS: No, never been partners in match play together.  We've played together, but it's just great to be able to go out as a team, in a team format, team atmosphere.
Q. Do you remember when you first met Webby?
REBECCA ARTIS: Well, one of my most strongest memories, I was an amateur playing the Australian Open, and I was in the second-to-last group going into Saturday with Webby as a 2-ball, and it was a great experience.  I had a disaster of a first hole.  Other than that, I played pretty good.  If I could have started again, I would have, but that's probably one of my biggest memories as an amateur growing up.
Q. Karrie, what kind of progress have you seen from the Tour in the last seven or eight years since Mike Whan has come in?
KARRIE WEBB: Well, it's been a great rebuild.  We were probably at one of our lowest points in the history of the LPGA there before he came on board, and he's really done a great job.  I was on the board for four of those years, and he's done a great job of building this Tour back up to a really strong schedule and giving us opportunities to play most weeks of the year.
Q. What do you think it would be like to be playing by yourself in this competition like Mel Reid is doing?
KARRIE WEBB: Well, it's a perfect challenge for Mel.  She sometimes needs a little inspiration or a little motivation, and I think as soon as she knew she was on her own, it doesn't surprise me that she's got a chance to win this match.
REBECCA ARTIS: I was just going to say Mel has got that type of personality.  Like Webby said, if you give her a challenge, Mel Reid is up for it.  It doesn't matter how big or small.  When the girls were talking about it on the range this morning, I said to Webby's caddie, Johnny Scott, I said, don't be surprised if Mel Reid is in it with a couple to go because that's just the type of person she is.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT