PAC-12 WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2016
Charli Turner Thorne
Elisha Davis
Sophie Brunner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Cal - 75, ASU - 64   
THE MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome the Arizona State Sun Devils.  Coach Charli Turner Thorne.  I'll have you make opening remarks and we'll take questions.  Coach?   
CHARLI TURNER THORNE: I'd like to thank everybody here that's helped put the tournament on.  We obviously aren't staying very long, but it's always a great event and we appreciate everybody in the Pac-12.  Yeah, I thought Cal, they've really been playing great down the stretch.  Obviously, a very talented young team.  They really stepped up today.  They hit shots, a lot of shots, and we gave them a lot of easy shots in the paint which is obviously not something that we normally do.  We just didn't play great team defense and really struggled to knock down shots today.  I'm still so proud of this team.  I mean, they've achieved so much this year.  Glad that we're going to get a two-week break just to regroup and get ready for NCAAs.  Play somebody we haven't seen twice already, and I know that we'll respond well.   
 Q.  Charli, obviously they were very successful with the lob passes in particular.  Anything why adjustments weren't made and why you couldn't stop it?  
CHARLI TURNER THORNE: Well, we actually did try to adjust.  We were supposed to be stealing on-ball screens, and we said play behind in the second half and we were going to double on the pass.  We just weren't really very focused today.  The things that we tried to adjust, we didn't do.  We also, they kind of threw the ball out of bounds and if we had better pressure on the ball, just getting our defense set, usually we've had a lot of success with.  So our help-side was late.  We were just not very good.  We did try to make some adjustments and, yeah, we just didn't do it.   
 Q.  Charli, you didn't shoot well either.  Was that their defense or what?  
CHARLI TURNER THORNE: Well, you know they have good length and they were working hard.  I thought we did have good looks.  Yeah, it's a little concerning.  We don't get any shooting time.  I'm not making any excuse, but we didn't get any shooting time until 10:30 this morning.  We don't get to shoot Wednesday night, we didn't have any time.  We'd have to get here at 6:30, 7:00 to shoot.  But I wasn't really worried about that.  I thought we'd be fine.  We like to get in the arena and shoot, and we didn't shoot well and that hurt us.   
 Q.  Except for Quinn, they have a big height advantage on you.  Were you conscious of that?  Were you afraid that was what was going to happen?  
CHARLI TURNER THORNE: Well, everybody has a height advantage on us.  Every single team, all the mid-majors we played in the preseason were bigger than us.  All year long we've overcome it, we worked hard, we boxed out, we've played great team defense.  I just feel like we weren't locked in today.  We beat this team twice.  We knew what we needed to do, and we just didn't do it.   
 Q.  Did you feel like there was anything that carried over from Sunday's loss to UCLA and today?  
CHARLI TURNER THORNE: Yeah, I think some of the things that happened last Sunday happened again today.  I think our team is pretty heartbroken about it in terms of just not having great -- very tough responses, and just being who we've been all year long.  But the good news is we'll get a good break here and we can kind of regroup.  I mean, this group is tough.  I know it didn't show today, but we have great toughness, and they have great character.  I don't know if it's fatigue.  This team has been amazingly consistent all season long, and you know you get to this point and you can hit a wall a little bit.  So it will be nice to go home and regroup for NCAAs.   
 Q.  Could you give your views on what the defensive problems were today?  
ELISHA DAVIS: I would say out the gate, making them work for everything.  They wanted us to make sure we stopped the ball consistently, didn't allow the kick-up.  If the kick-up was there, just to make them work in the post.  We have to make sure they have help side.  Any post-up is an iso due to the height advantage that y'all mentioned earlier, so we have to be more focused and know how hard we have to work.  So I would just say our willingness to outwork teams, we didn't do that today.  Us being tough consistently, we didn't do that today.  Just us being connected as a team and not letting nothing bother us.  I felt like that didn't flow into our defense and we weren't that chemistry team that's usually playing off each other and playing the defense.   
SOPHIE BRUNNER: Yeah, going off what she said, I think we had a lot of things on defense bother us and we let that turn over into our offense.  We weren't ourselves.  I think our defense really affected us today, and we weren't able to get out of that funk that we got in.   
CHARLI TURNER THORNE: We average giving up 10 free throws a game.  It was 20.  We fought a little bit at the end, but our discipline wasn't there.  That separated us all year long.   
 Q.  How close is Berkeley High School to the Cal campus?  
ELISHA DAVIS: It's not even five blocks.  I can literally walk up to Cal and just be there.  So I'm heart broken about what we did and how we didn't play our game.  But I'm very happy for them and I hope that they continue to bring that every game, and they continue to make more upsets and hopefully punch their ticket in the NCAA Tournament.  You know, you can't hate on people when they do good.  You have to respect their game, respect what they did, and hopefully we take some things from that.  They were tougher than us, so, yeah.   
 Q.  Did Cal recruit you?  
ELISHA DAVIS: No, they did not.   
 Q.  Any particular reason?  
ELISHA DAVIS: No, I was never really worried about that.  I was just kind of happy to have anybody who wanted me.  I never looked at who didn't want me because you can't change that.  But I was blessed to have her and she changed my life in so many ways just beyond the court.  So I'm glad that I didn't go to Cal, because I wouldn't have grown into the player, person, and teammate I've learned to become.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT