SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 6, 2015
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Quotes from:
ROBERTO CASTRO
Q. What did the course look like this morning and then after?  What was the before and after like?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Just the greens were slower.  I hit it really good on the front.  And I thought the greens were slower most of the day today.  So a little bit slower.  But the course, for how much rain they've had, it's holding up well.
Q. It was on TV that eagle you had.  It looked like it went a little past the hole and rolled right back in it.  Did it feel that good off the bat?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, it did.  It was dead solid and I was a little bit worried about spinning it back off the front of that green, but I thought I pushed it back in there far enough.  So I was just looking for it to not keep coming back at me when it disappeared.
Q. Was it a pitching wedge?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Pitching wedge.
Q. Obviously you shoot 10-under, you come back, you've got some pressure anyway and then you've got yellow jackets; you got all these different things.  You were able to keep your focus through all of it.  Were you proud of yourself for being rain delays, yellow jackets, didn't matter?  You just kept playing?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah.  The rain delay is something we deal with all the time.  So that wasn't a big issue.  But yeah, changing conditions, like you said, when we came out it was pretty soaked.  It was a lot to take in.  But feel like I stuck to my routine and made a lot of good shots.
Q. How many times did you get stung by a bee in the middle of the round then?
ROBERTO CASTRO: I haven't been stung by anything since I was a kid.  I told my caddie, I saw a snake later.  I said, that's why I stay in the city.  I'm not good in nature.
Q. So have you seen any alligators out there?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Oh, yeah.  Those are cool.  I haven't gotten up real close to one.
Q. I know on 8, I know you guys tried to stay pretty level, but it looked like you had a little fist pump after?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, it's just fun to make one.  I mean honestly we talk about it all the time with wedges, making them.  It's fun to get one fall, and sometimes you go a couple of years without making one and you make a couple in a couple weeks.  So it's just one of those things.
Q. You didn't hole out yesterday?
ROBERTO CASTRO: No.
Q. There's been some others.  I was getting confused.
ROBERTO CASTRO: I think that was Bryce.
Q. All these yellow jackets, I'm confused.  We were talking to Bryce about that, too.  Georgia Tech guys, at the top of the leaderboard.  That's gotta be kind of cool for you guys.  I know you know each other.
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, he's a really good friend of mine.  So it is, it's fun to see him playing well.  He's a piece of work.
Q. Nine-hour round.  So you gotta be exhausted.  How tired are you?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, it was a long day.  We had some down time there.  But yeah, I didn't hit it as good the last four or five holes.  I hit it in good spots, so I managed it well.  But I think I get a little bit of a pass.  It's a long day on your feet.
Q. After the rain delay, No. 5 you were getting ready to pull the trigger on a birdie putt, and a bee flies up your shirt and stings you.
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, I think it was a yellow jacket, which I don't appreciate.  One of my own kind.  But yeah, I haven't been stung since I was a kid, so it kind of wigged me out a little bit.  It still stings now, which I guess is the point of the whole thing.  But you know, no big deal.
Q. We have great video of the eagle.  That was a tremendous shot.  Tell us all about that at No. 8?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah.  I had casual water situation.  So my caddie just gave me the number.  Usually we both do it.  And that pin was kind of perched on a little ledge, didn't look like there was a whole lot up there.  But I thought it came out well, and just one of those things, you never know when you're going to jar one.
Q. That was a great shot.  15-under.  No bogeys now for two days.  You have to be very pleased with the state of the game.
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah.  It's been fun.  The last two days have been fun.  I've had good control of my golf ball and had a lot of looks at birdies today and yesterday.  So it's just a matter of keeping the pedal down.
Q. Look in the crystal ball because tomorrow may be a day you don't play at all.  You don't know, do you?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, the new James bond movie came out today, so it could be a movie day for me.
Q. After a tournament record-setting round on Thursday, you could say Friday's second round almost just as eventful in some regards.  How would you describe it?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, it was a long day.  I woke up at 4:30 this morning and we're just finishing now at dark.  So it was a long day, but I played four holes this morning and very fortunate to come out and play 14 holes in pretty much perfect weather.
Q. Take us through No. 5.  You get stung by a bee and three holes later you were able to hole out for eagle.
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, it was a yellow jacket, which is one of my own kind.  But it just kind of got up under my shirt, and I knew it, and it just got me.  It still stings now, but it didn't really bother me.  And yeah, a couple of holes later, a great wedge number and came out perfect and went in.
Q. What's been working for you so far in the 36 holes?  You're bogey free and you've raced out to 15-under.
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, really good ball striking the first 27 holes especially, and then I think a little fatigue maybe this afternoon, but my short game was great on the Back 9.  So I've had a lot of looks at birdie.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT