SANDERSON FARMS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 5, 2015
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Quotes from:   
ROBERTO CASTRO   
 Q.  New competitive tournament course record here.  Well done.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Thank you.  Thank you very much.  You know, it was a solid round all 18 holes.   
 Q.  What was the best part, because I followed you for most of the round.  Your putting was fantastic, but iron play set you up for a lot of those birdies.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Thanks.  Yeah, it was kind of a mix of both.  I made a lot of putts, but they were all in that like eight to 10-foot range.  So not gimmes for sure, but a lot of good looks.   
 Q.  You know, the par-3, 7th, 220 yards, huge green complex, tough tee shot, and you rolled it up there about five feet for the birdie.  You had to be proud of that shot.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, that was probably the one kind of bonus birdie today.  It was a 3-iron.  That's just a hole you're trying to make par and scoot to the next tee.  And it came out perfect and turned out to be the right number and like you said, just got a five-footer straight uphill.   
 Q.  Where did this come from?  Have you been playing well leading up to this round?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, I have.  I've been playing well for a couple of weeks during the Web finals and then Frys and Vegas I also played solid.  I just didn't get any good results out of it, so hopefully trying to turn the corner here.   
 Q.  You played well at that Scarlet course on the Web.com.  It was really a tough tract.  Did that turn things around for you?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, you know, I finished with a good Sunday the week before and then played well at as a result, which is just a course that's right in my wheelhouse, kind of bentgrass wall to wall.  So going to a place like that that is my type of conditions helped a lot.   
 Q.  Yeah, a long way to go though, as you know.  What a round you had today, Roberto.  A new course record, 10-under par.  How were you able to take it so low?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: I was really just trying to beat Bryce Molder because I saw he was out there going low.  No, I knew there would be some good scores out there, and I missed a five-footer for birdie on the second hole and it kind of just snapped me into focus and got it going after that.   
 Q.  And at what point you just said that got your focus, did you know you could really push it and post a number that guys were going to be staring at the top of the leaderboard?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: You know, I felt I turned at 5-under and didn't feel I did anything spectacular on the Back 9.  I started on the back.  So I thought, man, you really kind of birdied some of the tougher holes or rolling a couple long putts, could be a special day.   
 Q.  And we've seen you like at the PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP shooting a 9-under 63.  What is it about your game that lends itself to kind of free you up and be able to go solo?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: I think it's just necessity.  I woke up this morning and was like, let's see how the scores in China were.  8, 9, 7.  Just the way the game is now.  You're just trying to put the pedal down and go as hard as you can until the tournament ends.   
A little run on the front, but it was on some of the easier holes, and probably the only run I got on there was towards the end, 6, 7, 8.  6 and 7 are tough holes and 8's kind of a tricky hole, too.  So that's a nice stretch to finish.   
 Q.  Is there an advantage to a later tee time, you kind of know where the scores are, know where some of the opportunities may be?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Not really.  It's just so soft out there, it's a great golf course, but when the conditions are soft, it's tough to keep -- you know, the scores are going to be low.   
 Q.  Knowing the scores are low, is it tough not to press early, and obviously it worked out for you, but to be too aggressive at times?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, you know, I've thought that in the past, but I don't think you can get off to too fast a start or start making birdies soon enough most weeks on this tour.  You know, I used to think you kind of work your way into the tournament, but most of the guys that win, you're looking at -- you look back to Thursday, they may not have been leading, but they usually weren't in 90th or 100th place, so trying to get off to a quick start.   
 Q.  When Bryce was just up here, he shot 8-under.  He said the greens were a good speed.  Explain what that means in your mind that they were a good speed?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, I agree with that.  These are some of the best greens on tour, and last year they had a little bit more rollout, so you had to be careful or you'd end up with five or six feet coming back.  Good speed is you don't feel like you have to hit it, but you're never really worried about getting more than three or four feet past the hole.  So it's a very comfortable speed to make a lot of putts.   
 Q.  What did you think was working best for you today?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: I hit it good.  I got a lot of looks.  Missed a five-footer for birdie and had a couple of looks.  I just had probably 13, 14, 15 good birdie putts.   
 Q.  Did you feel this coming today?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: I've been playing well.  You never know.  You can't predict when you're going to shoot 10-under, but I thought I would come out and play well.   
 Q.  When was the last time you shot 10-under?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: I shot 9 and sat the course record at Dye's course at Sawgrass for the Web finals.  So no, at 10-under, though?  Not on TOUR.  I shot 9 at Stadium and the PLAYERS.  I shot 9 in that deal at Sawgrass a month ago.  Shot 9 at Humana once or twice.   
 Q.  This might be your -- this is your best as a pro?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah.  10's --   
 Q.  Anywhere as a pro, any level?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: I think I've shot 10 or 11-under in a mini tour event one time but I don't remember exactly.   
 Q.  Got the course record on the Stadium course and the Valley course at Sawgrass.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Racking up --   
 Q.  Yeah, you're racking up the course records.  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT