NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2015
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great putt.  Can you talk about how important that was to you to keep that round bogey-free?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, it's just something my caddie and I talked about every once in a while.  You know, Furyk they said the other day had over 100 bogey-free rounds on TOUR.   
I just love playing bogey-free rounds, and I felt like didn't make many mistakes on 18 there, so I didn't want to walk away with a 5.   
 Q.  Anything in your round in particular that was working well today, or was it all...  
ROBERTO CASTRO: I played better than yesterday.  Yesterday I had a lot of par saves that I mostly converted, but today was lower stress for sure.   
Put the ball in better spots.  10 and 11 are really hard holes there in around the middle of the round.  I missed both of the greens that had easy pitches and converted both, so that helps.   
 Q.  Similar course condition?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, very similar.   
 Q.  Pin position?  A little rough?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: There are probably six really difficult pin locations on every green.  There is no real reason like to save -- I mean, yesterday's pins could have been Sunday's pins; today's could be Sunday's pins.   
Just the greens complexes are very, very challenging.  Every day is going to be like that.  That's the hardest thing about the golf course.   
 Q.  So the work begins once you get there, in a sense, the extra work.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, I mean, you can mistake a lot of pars hitting it 30 feet, but it's hard to make birdie and hard to hit it close.   
 Q.  You talked last week about trying to hit more great shots as opposed to just good shots; was there any of that, any particularly great shots you hit out there today?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, I was trying to do more of that.  I hit two good 3-woods on the back:  one on 12, the par-5.  Went for it in two and hung up in the fringe, but could have worked down there pretty close.  Easy birdie.   
15, which is an odd hole for me in the past.  Never figured out what to do off that tee.  I kind of slide it down a little 3-wood and hit the middle of that fairway.   
So I felt like I tried it hit some great shots; pulled some of them off.   
 Q.  Is that mentality something you think of consciously on the course, or is it something you try to build yourself as an attitude I guess overall?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, both.  Overall attitude and just picking shots with my caddie.  I was a little upset on 17.  I hit it in the bunker.  Probably pulled a club just to hit it in the middle of the green instead of challenging myself and trying to hit one close.   
That's what you get if you hit it in the bunker.   
 Q.  You're an engineer, right?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah.   
 Q.  That help you out here, the way you're wired reading greens?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: No, I read greens just with my eyes and feel.  I don't do any of that Aimpoint stuff.  Two different worlds.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT