TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 19, 2013
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First time here and first round 67.   You must be pretty happy with that.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Thank you.   Yeah, it was a good day.   Just hit the ball nicely right out of the gate.   Got some birdie looks and then made a few birdies towards the middle of the round.   Finishing holes are tough, so it was nice to finish well.  
   
 Q.   Local guy, Georgia Tech, did you feel any crowd enthusiasm?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, definitely.   I had a bunch of friends come out.   It was good to see familiar faces on the 1st tee.   Usually, I'm playing with somebody that it's war eagle or whatever.   It's usually something other than yellow jacket.   So it was nice to get a few shout outs today.  
   
 Q.   First time, how was it out there?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I think so.   I was excited to play today.   I got settled pretty quickly warming up and played nice from the beginning.   
So it was a good start.  
   
 Q.   Did the golf course different conditions than when you played it?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   It's mostly my energy level and amount of practice I do now compared to when I played here in college.   It's totally different for me.  
   
 Q.   How many times do you think you've been on this course?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Maybe 100.   Maybe 20 times a year in college, maybe more, four years.   Probably close to triple digits.  
   
 Q.   Just the whole experience of being in the first TOUR Championship, what have you found to be different than normal Tour stuff?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Not too much different on my day‑to‑day operation.   It's just funny when the golf course is empty during practice rounds, and the tee sheet looks like a Wednesday morning at a private club.   There's 30 names on there, somebody just wrote it it down casually.   
It's a little different deal, but once you're playing, it's about the same.  
   
 Q.   Talk a little about your sense of accomplishment getting here.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I think it's cool because there's only one way to get in, just earn it off the points.   There's no exemptions, no previous‑‑ last year's FedExCup champion, they don't qualify, doesn't get to play.   
So really very proud to be here.  
   
 Q.   Roberto, where were you from tech?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I made the main tour for three years and then the Nationwide Tour for three years.   E‑golf and hooters.  
   
 Q.   Which one did you like better?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   About the same.   They're both good.   Good for their purpose.  
   
 Q.   I know it was a very short time, three years, was there ever a point where you felt it was tough to attain your goals?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   The first three months was pretty tough, and then I started to see some progress.   I had a good year the second year, and I felt I was ready to step up and missed Q School again.   So it was a bit of a hiccup.   I felt better after six months about what I was doing.  
   
 Q.   What was your breakthrough moment in golf?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Probably Monday qualifying for a Nationwide Tour event and getting my status out there.   Monday, I qualified, and then I finished second in Wichita and got my status out there.   
So you eventually have to break through a Tour school or break through a Monday qualifier.   So that was kind of my step forward.  
   
 Q.   [No microphone.]  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Other than 10?   Yeah, 10.  
   
 Q.   [No microphone.]  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, Chi Cho.   My family calls me that.   That's like little kid in Italian.  
   
 Q.   [No microphone.]  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, my grandmother's side is Italian.   So it's a melting pot.   There's always a lot going on.  
   
 Q.   Talk about playing here so many times in school and getting off to this start in this tournament.   What are you looking to tomorrow?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   It's nice to get off to a good start and make some birdies on the first day.   Whatever it's going to take, you're going to have to make 15, 20, 25 birdies to win this tournament.   So to make three or four the first day is just a good jump start on it.   Not fighting back into it.   
But the course is tough.   The rough's long.   It's not an easy golf course.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT