DEUTSCHE BANK CHAMPIONSHIP
August 31, 2013
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Solid round of golf here, great shape at the halfway mark?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Thank you.   Yeah, it was a good start this morning.   I kind of figured front nine is pretty scorable, and we started in perfect conditions.   I figured sometimes you can get it going in those morning rounds and I did.   It was a good start.  
   
 Q.   I'm glad that you caught fire and eagled up the second hole.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   The eagle on 2 is just one of those putts that looked like the higher up the hill you hit it the more it would come down.   I figured if I get it there, it looked like it was going to go in the whole way.  
   
 Q.   Then you stubbed your toe a little bit, a bogey at the 13th, double bogey at the 14th.   I know you got a couple of bad lies, one on your drive on 14th, and one on your second shot on 14 as well, leading to that double.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   That was a dumb decision.   I drew a terrible lie.   It's a hard hole.   I probably make par half the time if I just put it out 60, 70 yards.   But I felt I could get it up there and it cost me one, that's how it goes.  
   
 Q.   Beautiful bounce back, a 33 foot birdie putt at 16.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Thanks.   It was down a ridge.   That's always a good hole to make a birdie on.   That's probably the signature hole out here.  
   
 Q.   Did I have a bad angle, I thought that chip you had at the 18th was extremely difficult and you hit it to three feet?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I was just far enough toward the front of the green where I had a decent angle, whereas Nick was five steps further into the green and had to come over that knob, so it was a lot more difficult.   So I had a chance and I ended up hitting a good shot.  
   
 Q.   You have really dominated the par‑5s this week.   I believe you're 7‑under on the six par‑5s?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, it goes to show I've gone for more of them this year than last year, but have a better feel for how to play those holes and taking advantage.  
   
 Q.   Nothing better than finishing up early on Saturday and a late tee time on Sunday.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   How did the course play today compared to yesterday?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Pretty similar.   The front nine we played with no wind at all.   The back nine, just similar to yesterday.   And it was just a light wind.   But you had to pay attention to it.  
   
 Q.   Do you expect the low scores to continue for Sunday and Monday?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   You know, if it stays the same, probably, but it always tends to tighten up on the weekend and get some tougher pins.   It always seems like it's going to be 26 under this week but it rarely goes that deep, so we'll see.  
   
 Q.   You talked about feeling comfortable out here with these guys.   How much of it was a matter of demystifying the big names, playing alongside of them?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, I've done that this year.   I've played with a lot of good players, the last two years, really.   Everybody's good golf looks similar, hit it straight, make putts.   There's no, like you said, mystery or magic to good golf out here.   It doesn't make it easy.   
   
 Q.   Is there a noticeable difference today?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   The greens were good yesterday until the last five or six holes, they were a little stepped on.   Today they were pretty much‑‑ they were good all 18 holes, but not terribly different.  
   
 Q.   Did you see the wind pick up?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, it went from nothing to five to ten; probably feels like it did yesterday, it was five to ten in the afternoon.  
   
 Q.   What happened on 14?   Sergio had a double there, and you had a double there, is the hole playing longer?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, it's playing 530 into the wind, it's like a par‑5 really.   I just hit it in the right rough and tried to get it up from the green on a bad lie and hit it in the cross bunker there.   It was probably a poor decision.  
   
 Q.   Do you have to play it as a par‑5?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Not if I hit it in the fairway and have a long iron in.  
   
 Q.   If you do hit it in the rough, does it make it more‑‑  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   If I had a good lie, I could hit 5‑wood right up on the green.   But I had a nasty lie and I thought I could still kind of slap it up there.   But it was a gross lie, I should have pitched it out.  
   
 Q.   How do you recover after something like that?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I just‑‑ there's a lot of hard holes out here.   You're not going to, you know‑‑ you're going to make bogeys, so I wasn't too concerned.  
   
 Q.   Is 14 the most challenging hole?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Today for sure.   They've got the tee all the way back and the pin is on the back fringe, 530 or something, into the breeze.   Today it will be the hardest hole.  
   
 Q.   Are there things that you now know about yourself in this game that you could not have known without being out here?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Definitely.   That was what I was most excited when I got my Tour card was to find out what my good golf looked like, whether that would be make a cut, a win or a missed cut.   You don't know until you play out here.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   No, totally different golf course.   
   
 Q.   Maybe the situation where maybe you're sitting close after two days?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I'm going to definitely draw on those experiences.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT