AT&T NATIONAL
June 28, 2013
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   We were talking about how you thought that the Friday experience at The Players, taking the first round lead there at the TPC Sawgrass, might help you today.   How did you feel about that?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I felt good.   Like you said, I probably learned a lot there and realized that one round doesn't mean anything, just got to keep going.   And I was able to do that today.  
   
 Q.   How difficult is it to maintain a high level of play out here on the PGA Tour?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   It's very difficult.   Even the best players out here miss cuts and have bad rounds.   The margins are razor thin.   That's why you see guys miss the cut, win, or vice versa.   Chances are they played pretty well those weeks that don't look so good on the scorecard.  
   
 Q.   One thing about the golf course today, how would you compare today's round to yesterday's?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I thought the greens were a little bit quicker.   I think, as the humidity gets up in the afternoon, they slow down.   When we started this morning, they were very quick.   Otherwise, the course is very similar.  
   
 Q.   Is this your first time being the leader after two rounds?   What does that feel like?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I think at Humana this year I might have been tied or leading after two rounds.   That's a different tournament.   Three courses.   It's kind of scatter shots the first three days.  
   
 Q.   What's it like to be in the driver's seat?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   It feels good to play two rounds under par.   It's a very hard golf course.   I was over par both days kind of early but played a good round and hanging around even, it's nice to get under par.   I feel good about two rounds in the 60s.  
   
 Q.   Conditions similar today?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Similar conditions although the greens were considerably quicker in the morning.   I'm not sure if, when the humidity picks up throughout the day, if they don't slow down.   But in the morning they were very quick.   I'm sure some of the guys saw that yesterday.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday you talked about the way you played of late, building confidence.   Two rounds under par here, how much confidence does that give you going into the weekend?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   A lot of confidence going into the weekend.   I played here last year and put together four really good rounds, played better as the week went on, and then a good Thursday, Friday here.   I think I'm fairly comfortable at Congressional.   I like the way a lot of the shots look.   Just love the place in general.  
   
 Q.   Walk us through the bogey on 3.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   On 3, I drove it in the right bunker and really couldn't get it to the green.   So I hacked it out there to 40 yards and wedged it to 8 feet, and it was a really slow putt.   That's when the greens were really quick.   I had an 8‑footer with a couple feet of break.  
   
 Q.   You were saying yesterday you prefer to be on top, you prefer to be the leader going into the weekend, and you're continuing to do that.   Do you still stand on that?   Do you still like leading here?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I think so.   It just means you saved a lot of shots the first two days.   Over four days here, that means you've gotten the ball up and down, and you're going to have to keep doing that through four rounds.   So I feel good.  
   
 Q.   Tee on 9 is up?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Tee on 9 is up.  
   
 Q.   Does that change that whole‑‑  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Any five guys in the field might be able to get there in two with the tee up,   but it's a similar hole for me.   I drove it five yards from where I drove it yesterday because I really hit one good yesterday.   So it was almost the same hole for me today.  
   
 Q.   Where did your birdies come?   I'm sorry.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Let's see.  
   
 Q.   8, 9.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I birdied 8, drove it in the left rough, and hit it up there about 20 feet and made a good putt, after having two good looks on the previous holes.   
9, I played well.   I hit a 9 iron up to three or four feet.   
And then the par 5 on the back 16, I hit a good tee shot, a good 3 wood right in front of the green and got it up and down.  
   
 Q.   Any crazy scrambles like yesterday?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   No, not quite.   Not quite.   
   
 Q.   Thank you, sir.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT