THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 10, 2013
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You got off to a good start.   Had the birdie at 2 and then?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, I felt good.   Kind of a loose short game on the front, and then I kind of settled down and made two bad swings in the middle of the round.   Then played good the last six holes.  
   
 Q.   How important was it for to you kind of regroup in those last six holes?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   It was huge.   I was 6‑over par and sitting there looking at 16, 17, and 18.   I saw yesterday every hole on the course is hard, so it was nice to finish with six really solid holes.  
   
 Q.   I know it was only Thursday, but talk a little bit about sleeping on the lead last night and then coming out?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, I mean, it's fun.   It's a lot of excitement.   Obviously THE PLAYERS Championship is huge all over the world, so it's exciting.   It's a good place to be.   I've played plenty of Friday rounds, three or four outside the cut, and that's no fun, you know.   Today was fun.  
   
 Q.   You shot 63 yesterday, and when you were finished you were out on the range for a while.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, just trying to settle down and reset my rhythm.   There was a lot going on after the round and it was a beautiful afternoon to just hit some balls.  
   
 Q.   It didn't ever seem you were really too bothered.   You tried to keep even keel.   Was that the secret to making sure the wheels didn't come off?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I think so.   I just tried to be nice to myself.   If it was easy, everybody would do it.   I wouldn't have been embarrassed or felt bad or anything if I would have shot two 76s this week.   It's a hard golf course.   I'm 3‑under par, and beating 110 of the best players in the world through 36 holes.   So I just kept telling myself, it's not easy.   It's not easy.   It's not easy.  
   
 Q.   Will it be easier to rest tonight?   Do you think you're settled down, ready to come out and play golf?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I'm excited about the weekend.   It's going to be tough.   I like that.   First weekend here at THE PLAYERS, it's going to be fun.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT