THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 9, 2013
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Heck of a round.   What was working for you out there?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I hit it close a lot.  
   
 Q.   Any particular shot that was working for you?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   A couple good wedges.   I hit a couple of gimmes on the back, but really birdie on 17 and 18 got things going.   I hit a 4‑iron close on 18 to kick in almost.   So from there, it was kind of off to the races.  
   
 Q.   Is there a certain point in the round where you felt like you were really putting together something special?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   When I eagled 2, I guess I was 7‑under, but there are so many tough holes coming in, that, really‑‑ even 9, that is a tiny green surrounded by nothing good, so I just tried to play all the way through.  
   
 Q.   Did you see this coming at all in your game?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Definitely.   The last two weeks I've hit the ball really nicely.   Scores haven't shown it, but lot of greens in regulation and lot of fairways hit the last couple weeks.   So, obviously, not great finishes, but a couple putts here and there and the last couple weeks could have been good too.  
   
 Q.   You knocked it stiff on 6.   There was a smaller group around the 6 green but the galleries started to get a little bigger.   Did you sense what was going on?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   A little bit.   The crowds here are huge, so I figured they were looking for something fun to watch today.   So, yeah, it was a good reception there on 9.   That was nice.  
   
 Q.   Two shots, at approach shot on 9, I mean, if that's half a yard to the right it funnels right down, right?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   That's true.   It was perfect weight.   I hit it really solid.   I kind of felt like the ball was a little up in my stance and I caught it a little late.   But it really could have, like you said, it was about a foot from being a kick‑in.   Because that putt I had I barely got it rolling, and it went three feet by.   I definitely had plenty of funnel in the right direction for me today.  
   
 Q.   How bad did you want the four‑footer coming back?   Was that the toughest putt of the day?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Definitely.   The first putt I hit so well and I wanted to give it a run.   I could have just touched it, but I had no chance to make the first one, basically.   But I told myself, let's hit a solid putt.   If you have three or four feet coming back, try to make that one.  
   
 Q.   No disrespect intended here, but when your name started across that leaderboard, everybody's probably Googling it.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Oh, sure.  
   
 Q.   Is that kind of fun?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Definitely, it is.   It gets proven out here every week.   Derek Ernst won last week in his eighth event and no one ever heard of him.   There are a lot of good players out here.  
   
 Q.   Take me through the second shot on 2?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I had 215 front, 225 hole, and I thought about hitting a hard 4‑iron, but I hadn't hit anything hard all day.   I was in a nice rhythm.   So I just‑‑ my caddie said let's hit 3, a comfortable one, and if it goes long, it goes long.   
When it came out, I hit it solid and told it to get down and it was perfect, so it was a good decision there.  
   
 Q.   Are you one of those guys that looks at the leaderboard or do you just play?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   They're everywhere, so it's hard not to look at them.   But on day one, if you see one, you see one, but I'm not looking to see what else is going on really.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT