HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 19, 2013
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOE CHEMYCZ:   Like to welcome Roberto Castro to the interview room.   9‑under par, 69 today.   Puts you at 17‑under par.   Talk about today and a little more of a struggle or what?   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I played good the first nine holes, was 4‑under, could have picked up a couple more.   And then played half the holes really well on the back and hit a few loose shots.   Both the bogeys I made I had six feet for par and hit good putts, they just didn't go in.   
So got a little out of rhythm on the back, but still hit enough good shots to feel good about it.   
JOE CHEMYCZ:   And in position for tomorrow, too.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, I think that to win a tournament, you basically have to shoot the low round of the day on Sunday, whether you're leading or a few back.   That's always been my attitude.   
So I think that that's going to be the case this week, too.   Even if someone's leading by two or three, you're going to have to go shoot the low round of the day to hold on.   
   
 Q.   You haven't often led the first two rounds of a PGA event I'm guessing.   Have you felt the pressure at all?   Is it any different playing from ahead instead of behind?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Not so much.   I don't think so.   Challenge myself to keep playing free and get my putts to the hole and do all that stuff.   That's kind of how I got it rolling this week.   So I've been trying to keep it going.   
   
 Q.   Stewart Cink just said that five‑shot lead, to overcome a five‑shot lead might be like being a 14‑point underdog going into Sunday.   How daunting is a five‑shot lead?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I just saw that he got to 22‑under.   Yeah, it's a lot.   He's going to ‑‑ Stallings, right?   
Yeah, he's going to play the par‑5s well out here.   He's really a good player, obviously, two wins out here.   But just look at how he got to 22‑under.   He shot 9‑under today.   
The par‑5s are reachable.   You can make an eagle.   So I don't know.   Five‑shot lead seems like a big deal, then on Sunday nights, sometimes nobody remembers who was leading by five depending upon how Sunday goes.  
   
 Q.   What's the best lesson you learned from your aunt?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I just learned from her that good players, professional golfers shoot 80.   That was the difference growing up.   Like in my family and around her is, like, I saw a lot of my peers or junior golfers and college golf, they freak out when they shoot 78 or shoot 80.   But when, you know, having her, her perspective, it's like she knows that even the best players in the world struggle.   
So a couple bad tournaments or a bad round, I wasn't getting phone calls from my parents or my aunt or whatever.   Golf is hard, you know.   So I think that that was the biggest lesson I learned.   That the game beats you up and you just kind of got to keep on plugging away.   
   
 Q.   As a follow‑up to that, it took her a long time and then her breakthrough as a Major winner.   Did that sort of sustain you when were you on the mini tours and kind of wondering if you were going to have that breakthrough?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, I think so.   She was a grinder.   It took her two, three, four tries to get through TOUR school, and then she had a 15‑plus, maybe 17‑year career out there.   So her and my grandparents were always, like, they had seen it all.   Like they had seen the Junior All‑Americans fade away, and they would see the college All‑Americans fade away, and it's not really ‑‑ they just always preached long‑term, long‑term, big picture.   
So, yeah, I would say definitely giving me encouragement.   
   
 Q.   What is it about you that you didn't fade away?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I don't know.   I kept enjoying it, for sure.   Three years on the mini tours, and then some golf on the Nationwide Tour, but I just saw I was still going, and a lot of people I grew up with had given up.   
So even though I wasn't where I wanted to be, I had made it a lot further than a lot of guys that I had played with and were the superstars.   So no matter where I was, I felt like I was still kind of trying to be nice to myself and tell myself I was doing the right things.   
   
 Q.   Is it true that your mother's the only one in her family who didn't play golf?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   That's true.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   How does that happen?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   My mom's different.   
(Laughter.)  
She has no patience.   Obviously, golf's not a good game for her.  
   
 Q.   So she's not a grinder, is that what you're saying?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   No, she's a grinder, but she's just not‑‑ she's an artist.   She's not ‑‑ it takes too long to play golf and it's too hot.   So she did her own thing.   
   
 Q.   Really, she's an artist?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, I mean she's not like a‑‑  
   
 Q.   A good one?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   ‑‑ a MOMA artist, but, yeah, she's very good.   But she's become‑‑ she's hugely involved in golf.   I have two brothers who played Division I golf.   Basically all she did for 10 or 15 years was take us to junior tournaments.   And she knows a lot about the game, she just doesn't play.   
   
 Q.   What is her form?   Is she an oil painter or ink and pen?  
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Kind of like folk art.   Paint.  
   
 Q.   Old school.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah.   Kind of like folk art is the best way I would say.   
JOE CHEMYCZ:   Roberto, thank you.   Play well tomorrow.   
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Thanks.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT