HUMANA CHALLENGE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH THE CLINTON FOUNDATION
January 17, 2013
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   Like to welcome Roberto Castro.   Roberto, you got bogey‑free 9‑under today, if you want to talk about your round and then we'll have a few questions. 
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I got off to a good start, I birdied the first two with kick‑ins, basically.   And then just played well after that.   Didn't make any long putts until the 18th hole I rolled in like a 40, 50‑footer.   I had a good group.   Daniel played well too. 
So this tournament you kind of got to get it going and keep it going.   We both got it going early, which was good. 

Q.   You mentioned you got to get it going and keep it going here.   Obviously the great start for you today, but if you were at even par through nine, do you feel pressure even on a Thursday in the front nine here to go deep?
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, definitely.   I think so.   This year I birdied the first two, so I was kind of off and running, but last year I really told myself to stay patient and even if you could just shoot under par on every nine holes you were still hanging in there. 
And I did that last year.   I didn't have a high finish, but I played four days and it was my second tournament ever, so you're definitely right, you have to give your self a little time to get it going. 

Q.   Is that tough so early in the year when maybe your game isn't Master's ready?
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, I think so.   That's why they say the West Coast can be tough.   It's windy in Hawaii and this week if you don't make a bunch of birdies you're kind of left behind.   So it's one of the reasons. 

Q.   Do you look forward to the dynamic of taking that confidence and using it on different courses?
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Yeah, that is a little different also.   Totally different look tomorrow.   But even when you play well it's hard to follow the low round, because you're trying to play the same round the next day.   So maybe it helps out here, maybe that's why guys shoot so low because they don't have to go hit the same shots the next day. 

Q.   Where are you on tomorrow?
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I play here again at Palmer. 

Q.   Last year the Nicklaus was the easiest course on the TOUR statistically. 
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Oh, yeah? 

Q.   So you're probably helping to add to that for 2013 this year.   What is it about that course that makes scoring so low?
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Well you have four shortish par‑5s there's really no long par‑3s, which are kind of the hardest holes on both courses.   So those two probably add up.   And it's pretty generous off the tee. 
Palmer is, it gives up some low scores too, but there's some tough holes, par‑3 over the water, there's a little more trouble out there. 

Q.   How familiar are you with the Palmer Course?
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Two rounds.   I played it blind in the tournament last year and then played Sunday on it.   So just 36 holes.   And then I played nine holes on it Monday. 

Q.   When you come in to the valley, for this tournament, do you try and get to all three courses or as a younger player whereas maybe some of the older players go, oh, La Quinta, we have done that?
ROBERTO CASTRO:   I think.   So I got here Sunday and I saw all three courses, but I think most guys do that.   I played with Matt Kuchar yesterday and he was out playing all the golf courses, I saw him out here Monday and he had flown over from Hawaii Sunday night.   So I think that guys like to feel like they're not stepping up on a tee and haven't seen it in 12 months. 

Q.   I see that you're a contributor to allthingsthataregood.com?
ROBERTO CASTRO .org.   It's just a web site my buddies and I started, I don't know, three are or four years ago, and it was just kind of one of those ideas you have sitting around with friends at a bar and we made it happen. 
So sometimes we update it a lot and sometimes we don't.   But it's just something for fun. 

Q.   So this will be updated now?
ROBERTO CASTRO:   No, it's stuff far more interesting than this. 
MARK STEVENS:   Okay.   Well, thanks a lot. 
ROBERTO CASTRO:   Thank you.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT