BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 8, 2016
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You get in at 7-under par.  Kind of a disjointed day with the rain delay.  Describe how you were able to put it together.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, it's another week on the PGA TOUR.  It's been a lot of delays this year, but we have been dealing with this since we were kids playing junior golf.  I'm just glad to get the round in.   
 Q.  On the restart, what did the chip-in on 14 do for you?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: That's a tough hole.  I hit two good shots just to get it right in front of the green and it looked like it was going to miss on the left and it fell in and it was nice to kind of get back thinking about birdies.   
 Q.  I know you're disappointed with a bogey on the 18th hole, but let's accentuate the positive.  Tell me about the birdie at 17.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: It was a really -- that's tough hole and I ended up with a straight, slow uphill putt, told myself to give it a respect and get it there and it went right in the middle.  I think I told myself the same thing on 18 and ran it by a little bit.  But that's a wash.   
 Q.  Well, plenty of good shots that I saw.  That was a really delicate chip you had on 15 too and you walked up and hit it close enough to tap it in.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, that was, that's a very Crooked Stick hole.  62 deep on the green.  So I was in the middle of the green, but near a bunker, and flipped it up over the bunker and tap-in birdies are always fun.   
 Q.  Were you able to be more aggressive after the rain delay?  It looked like the greens became more receptive.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Definitely, the first 12, 13 holes before the delay they were really firm.  Down wind it was tough to judge the bounce, so it was definitely more gettable out there right now.   
 Q.  You are restaurant guy in Atlanta, so you better get back to East Lake.  You turned us on to that pizza place a couple years ago.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: There's a lot of good food in Atlanta, so anyone that makes it there, I can point you in the right direction.   
 Q.  Get some comments on your round?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, it was very different before and after.  It was really firm before the delay, so the ball was rolling.  You could bomb it off the tee and then try to stop it on the greens.  The greens were firm.  And then pretty gettable after the delay.  Really softened up.   
 Q.  What's it like to start a week like this?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: It's great to be at BMW, it's great to be one of the Top-70 this year.  I told myself last two weeks really to play like I had nothing to lose and to make a bunch of birdies is a good way to start.   
 Q.  The goal is to get back to Atlanta.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Sure, it's a hometown tournament for me.  It's the hardest one to get to, unfortunately, but it's still a great tournament.  I would love to be back.   
 Q.  How far do you live from there?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: 15 minutes.   
 Q.  With the way the course is playing after the delay, do you think a lot of guys are going to go low before the day is over?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, you'll see some low scores.  There were some low scores before the delay, but it's still a big golf course, so it will need to be showed some respect still.   
 Q.  Is there something with you and Pete Dye courses?  You seem to like them, the Stadium Course, the Dye Valley Course.  
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, I hadn't thought about that.  I do better on tougher courses sometimes, it kind of snaps me into focus.  And Pete Dye courses, there's just a lot of shots where it's do or die.  So I think that it probably helps me.   
 Q.  Where does getting to the TOUR Championship rank on your list of goals throughout the year?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: My goals are usually around winning tournaments and you can get to the TOUR Championship without winning, so, but it's huge, it really is.  It's where I played college golf, the Georgia Tech connection and still living there in town, it's an awesome way to end the year.   
 Q.  How much did you play East Lake?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: A couple times a week when we were not traveling.   
 Q.  How about nowadays?  
ROBERTO CASTRO: I play there once or twice a year in charity outings and it's always perfect.  Sometimes coach will invite me to play with the team, but not very often, so.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT