SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2016
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Roberto, solid round of golf.  Only missed two fairways.  Says 11 of 18 greens.  You hit a lot of fringes today, lot of looks.
ROBERTO CASTRO: 17, for example, that's a tough hole.  4 off the left.  I was an inch on the fringe.  About a 12-footer even though it shows as a chip-in.  I had that happen a handful of times today.
Q. What was the deal today, kind of on with your irons, and a few players said it was tough with the high humidity really dialing in your number today?
ROBERTO CASTRO: The front-9 the ball was really skipping on the greens is probably what they were talking about with the misty rain.  But I got a few good looks and it's a long, hard golf course.  You got to grab the short holes and look for the middle of the greens on the long holes.
Q. Got off to a good start here.  You like getting off to a good start, when you do you usually hang around.  Are you looking forward to late tomorrow with the high heat?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, definitely.  I had really rough Thursdays my last two tournaments.  That was a big goal when I showed up here this week to have myself organized for Thursday.  So it feels good.
Q. What's the old saying, you can never win a tournament on a Thursday but you can lose a tournament on a Thursday.  Go out and have some fun.
ROBERTO CASTRO: Thank you.
Q. Thursday, 65.  The second best round of the season for Roberto.  How would you characterize this low one you put up here today?
ROBERTO CASTRO: You know, the last two tournaments I had rough Thursdays and I felt like I was playing well.  So, I just really wanted to have myself organized and have my thoughts ready to go Thursday morning this week.  So it feels good to get on the right side of it after one round.
Q. When you make that change in preparation to try to change things, you still have to back it up with golf.  What went along with that mental preparation to turn it around?
ROBERTO CASTRO: I took advantage of the short holes.  I think I was only 2-under on the par-5s.  I feel like the holes that are not 495 are where you have to make your birdies here, and I was able to do that.
Q. What were the conditions like?  Seemed like very little wind as you approached, changed when you realize this course might be there for the taking?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Definitely a place with no wind you can get it, but that rain on the front-9, little misty rain, tough to hit it close.  The ball was really skipping on the greens.  Not perfect conditions but a hundred percent right, lack of wind let me hit some balls close.
Q. Roberto, great start, keep it going.
ROBERTO CASTRO: Thanks, Steve.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT