AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 13, 2016
Roberto Castro
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Did you make the cut?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Amateur-wise?  No.
Q. 12-under for the week, good start through three days.  What's gone well for you this week?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, it's been steady.  I've seen some putts fall.  I made a couple long putts my first nine holes over at Pebble on Thursday.
Then I missed some here or there, but feel like every nine holes I managed to roll one or two in and it's been a steady climb.
Q. 4-under today, you had a little bit of a delay.  That throws you off a little bit, but good day for you?  Talk about your round today.
ROBERTO CASTRO: I don't have a great history with MPCC.  We don't have a real friendly relationship, until this year.  Yeah, I felt like I played better.
But I told myself, just like, let's just play this course to a draw if we have to.  I've just never played a great round over here.  I was kind of 1-over early and I was like, no big deal.  I got to get this place.  And I started -- strung together some birdies on the back nine.
Q. Can it be a tough place when a guy shot 60 here yesterday?  Traditionally guys go low here, does that make you feel pressure to have to shoot a good number?
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, I was just trying to shoot a decent number.  I never shot even a reasonably good round here.  A couple evens or something.  But that 60 was, goes on the list of better rounds that, since I've been on TOUR here.  But, yeah, you can get it.  If you're playing well you can get it.
Q. In terms of tomorrow, playing back at Pebble.  I'm sure you're excited to be if not in one of the final groups, top two or three groups, I would think.
ROBERTO CASTRO: Yeah, that's my favorite golf course in the world.  So every I come here, if the weather's good, bad, I'm just like, grind, because I want to play on Sunday.  I just want to play another round at Pebble.  So I'm going to enjoy it.  I love it over there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT