UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 5, 2013
Justin Wilcox
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JUSTIN WILCOX:   That is the point of playing football.   That's why this is the ultimate team sport because we've got to have each other's back.   A lot of the guys on defense were on special teams, so, you know, that's the way this game is played.   That's why it's different than any other sport out there.

Q.   Was it tough to see your offense score and then kind of give it right back?   I think several times the offense got seven, and you gave seven back.   Just never got traction out there. 
JUSTIN WILCOX:   Yeah, anytime they score on you, that's not what you're looking for.   Obviously, Stanford is a good football team, made some good plays.   We felt like there were a couple mistakes that we made that we'd love to have back.   But I'm extremely proud of how hard our guys played.   We were not perfect.   We'll learn from it and move forward.

Q.   When you're going four, five, six carry that's row, how hard is that to stop? 
JUSTIN WILCOX:   What do you mean? 

Q.   The drive where you had six carries and they scored the touchdown; how hard is that to top? 
JUSTIN WILCOX:   All of these offenses are hard to stop sometimes.   They're good football players.   They've got good teams and good players.   We've got to do a better job whatever the break down was.   There are going to be times we might have made a mistake and they gain yards from it, and there might be a time when they earn the play.   What we've got to eliminate are the self‑inflicted wounds.   He's obviously a talented back.   I'm sure there are times‑‑ I haven't watched the tape yet, but I will as soon as possible and we'll get those things fixed.   I thought our guys battled extremely hard.

Q.   Feeney's play on third and one (No microphone). 
JUSTIN WILCOX:   Yeah, Travis played better and better.   He had a great week of practice this week, and we expect him to continue to improve and Travis made a good play.   There are a lot of guys that I think made some really good plays out there.   And there are obviously going to be a few that we'd love to have back.   That is the story. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT