NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 27, 2015
Derick Brassard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DERICK BRASSARD:   Obviously, it felt pretty good.   You know, you try to play well for your team, you try to be involved, and I was just‑‑ like I said yesterday, it was just like one of those nights.   I was in the right place at the right time.   My teammates gave me some really good plays, and I'm just going to try to bring it in Game 7.  
   
 Q.   Now you have a day off?   
DERICK BRASSARD:   Yeah, yeah, it's going to be good for our team, just to have a chance today to not think about hockey, not go to the rink and rest our bodies.   
Come Friday, it's going to be fully energized with a lot of energy, obviously.   
I remember, I guess, against Washington we were pretty exhausted and we were pretty tired, and those two days really helped us to come out with a win.  
   
 Q.   This is the time of year, did you always know (indiscernible) that you wanted to be the guy (Indiscernible)?  
DERICK BRASSARD:   Yeah, I think I play with a lot of emotion, and I think at this time of the year that's what it takes to make a difference, a lot of passion and emotion.   
I played four years in the league before I got my first taste of the playoffs, and I think I really enjoy playing at this time.   There is nothing better than playing in New York in front of those fans and playing on a good team.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DERICK BRASSARD:   Yeah, it was really hard.   I had a hard time in Columbus, but I stuck with it.   I came here to New York, and they showed me a lot of confidence right away, and I think it really helped me to adjust to a new team and come here and have some success.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DERICK BRASSARD:   No, not really.   I was just playing there with Marty and Zuc came on the ice with a big smile, and I think that actually kind of helped me to have a smile on my face a little bit.   I wasn't working on anything.   I was just playing there.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DERICK BRASSARD:   I don't know.   That's a good question.   It should be the other way around, but we're a pretty good road team.   We show up to play every time on the road.   It seems like we don't have anyone to impress.   Maybe at home we're trying to impress our fans or we're trying to impress people.   
I think we just have to show up Friday and play the same way, be confident.   They're going to be loud.   The atmosphere's going to be great, and we just have to take those emotions and put it in a good way.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DERICK BRASSARD:   No, both teams have had their moments.   You know, it's been back and forth, and we're facing a really good team.   I think it's some really good hockey to watch.   
You know, we're not far from our goal, and we just have to begin one more game and play hard, but we're just going to try to focus on our play.   We're going to focus on our team.   We're going to follow the game plan and we're going to give ourselves the best chance to win this game.  
   
 Q.   (Indiscernible)?  
DERICK BRASSARD:   Yeah, I think J.T., his attitude has been outstanding for the past two weeks.   He's been competing really hard.   I think, like I said yesterday, he's energized our line.   
I remember last game he was trying to push me and Rick to be better and to make a difference.   He's a guy with a really good shot, he wins a lot of pucks.   He's a really strong guy, and we need him to be really good to be successful.   
Last night it was just I think he got rewarded with all the hard work he's been doing the past couple weeks.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT