NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 21, 2015
Derick Brassard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone)?  
DERICK BRASSARD:   Yeah, but I think for the past two games we got away from our game.   I mean, we won the Presidents' Trophy this year by playing good defense, and we didn't give our goalie a chance to be successful the past two games.   When you look at the big picture, yeah, it's nice we scored a lot of goals, but we just have to go back to basics.   
They love the stretch pass, they have a lot of skills, obviously, but we have to go back to play some good defense.  
   
 Q.   I know it's not easy, but how hard is it going to be to implement that in the game based on what's happened the last two games?   
DERICK BRASSARD:   Yeah, it's not going to be easy.   We're in the Conference Final, they have a good team.   We're pretty aware of that.   Maybe their team has a different style than we've seen so far in these playoffs.   You know, we just have to play our game.   We have to focus on our team.   We can't focus on them.   
We just, like I said, we're a confident group.   We just have to go back to play some good defense with a lot of structure, and if we do that, we have a better chance to win.  
   
 Q.   Do you think (No Microphone) you said you have to go back to your style and not focus on them.   Do you think you kind of got caught up in their style a little bit?   
DERICK BRASSARD:   Yeah, I think so.   We were trying to score more goals, and our defensemen were trying to join the rush as much as we can, and they've been taking a lot of chances.   You know, we just have to pick our spot.   We have to be smarter.   
When you look at their team, their defensemen are always there in the offensive zone, in the forecheck.   They always have Hedman or Stralman joining the rush.   We just have to be smarter in the way we play, especially when their top guys are on the ice.  
   
 Q.   Any level of panic at all with this team?   
DERICK BRASSARD:   No, not at all.   It's just disappointing that we got away from our game.   We gave ourselves a chance to win the game last night, but it didn't go our way.   But we're not panicking.   We're confident.   Even if we're down 2‑1 in the series, we're still in a pretty good position.   
By winning the game tomorrow, we're going back in our building.   Obviously, the game tomorrow means a lot, and we're just going to try to play a better game and go back to New York with the series tied.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT