THE PRESIDENTS CUP
October 2, 2013
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the big crowds that will be following you tomorrow with Tiger. 
ANGEL CABRERA: Of course, you've got to win, whether it's Tiger or whoever it is.   That's the important thing.   Certainly if there's going to be a lot of crowds following and given that we played with Tiger, but I'm used to it.   I've been here‑‑ I've played with Tiger in the past. 

Q.   Angel has played, for many years, and has played with Tiger for many years.   How much do you think that your experience is going to be a benefit because of the fact that you have been around and you've won Majors, it's not the first time playing with Tiger. 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Like I said before, playing with Tiger or whoever it is, it's all about the win and focusing on tomorrow and that's pretty much it. 

Q.   In The Ryder Cup, the U.S. Team seems to struggle sometimes; same players come to The Presidents Cup.   In The Presidents Cup they seem to do better.   Why do you think there is a difference?
ANGEL CABRERA:   Well, I think that alternate‑shots has been a problem for the International Team, and that's been the issue for a long time for every single edition.   So we have got to get better in that.   That would be the key factor for us to win this tournament. 

Q.   So it's good that the first day, it's been switched to best‑ball and not alternate‑shot? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, it certainly can help, if we can get off to a good start going forward.   But this is golf and match play, so you never know. 

Q.   Do you think you and Marc have similar styles of golf?   Do you think that's why Captain Price likes you together? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Well, yeah, I spoke to the captain, and he said that pairing me with Marc was going to be good for Marc because of the experience that I can transfer to him.   But, well, basically, this is the only thing, the only reason why the captain is pairing; not question of styles.   I don't know exactly if we have similar or identical styles, but it's more of an experience/rookie relationship. 

Q.   Would you prefer to play with Tiger Woods or would you prefer to play where‑‑
ANGEL CABRERA:   I really don't care.   It's only about winning.   So whether if it's Tiger or whoever it is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT