WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2013
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DOUG MILNE:   We'd like to welcome Angel Cabrera to the interview room here at the Wells Fargo Championship.   Thank you for joining us.   First tournament back on the PGA TOUR after your Masters performance, week after The Masters, you go back to Argentina and you win in Argentina.   So just a few comments on the past couple of weeks for you, and what it's like to be back here in Charlotte? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   I'm very happy, and what happened in Augusta was golf, and I was very happy to win in my hometown.   I got to rest for a week, and I'm happy to be back. 
DOUG MILNE:   Before I open it up for questions, just talk a little about the reception you got after Augusta back at home. 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, it was great to get home and have everybody really excited.   It was a great week at my Open of Cordoba, and all of the people were excited and we had a great time and really enjoyed it.

Q.   What happened to your game from the start of the year to playing so well at The Masters?
ANGEL CABRERA:   I came in and I've been working hard to have a week like I had at Augusta.   I've been working hard and it came about that week.   I'm going to keep working hard.

Q.   You've had some success here.   You finished third a couple years ago.   What do you like about this course and how does it suit your game? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Like you said, yes, this is where I've had success and it's a great course.   I've heard that the greens aren't probably what they should be, but that's not going to bother me.

Q.   How much did you and Angel speak during the round, and what do you talk about? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   It just wasn't golf that we talked about.   We talked about a lot of different things during the week.   It was a special week with my son.

Q.   It showed coming off 18. 
ANGEL CABRERA:   I was fine all week long.   I played 18 like I played all week long.   I was just as happy starting the week as I was walking off 18.

Q.   When they talk about a lot of things, do they talk about the shot?   Have they had a conversation about which club selection? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, he's a professional now and he's got a lot of experience.   We talked a lot about the clubs, but the final decision was mine.   But, yes, we did a lot together.

Q.   Is it hard to blame him for anything? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yeah, he was responsible for all the bogeys I made.   I made the birdies (laughing).

Q.   What was the conversation like on the 18 fairway in regulation? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   There really wasn't much conversation.   I saw Scott make his 3, and I said, Okay, we've got to make 3.   That's about all that was said.   I said, Let's go make three.

Q.   Your win the next week in Argentina, how much did that help lift your spirits afterwards? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   I would have rather won the week before, but to play in front of my people and my town, yes I'm very happy with that.   By the way, that was the 8th time I won that tournament.

Q.   How difficult was it, if at all, to even go all the way back home and play a tournament after what happened at The Masters? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, it was very hard.   I was tired and the course was difficult and it showed the first three rounds.   I wasn't under par.   I finally got the round on Sunday where I played very well.

Q.   If you could win one more major, which would it be? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   All the majors are very important, so whichever one comes is fine with me.

Q.   But if you had to pick one? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   I've already won the U.S. Open and The Masters and they're very important, but the next one that comes is going to be fine. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT