MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Ladies and gentlemen, it's a pleasure to welcome Angel Cabrera back to the interview room.   Great day today.   Had a birdie on 18 to finish 3‑under on the day, tied for first at 7‑under.   
Angel, welcome back, congratulations.   Maybe you'll make a few remarks.   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I think it was a great round, trying to shoot under par and to be in position for tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   How important was it to make the birdie on the last hole to get into the final pairing?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I think it's important obviously to make that birdie.   But for my confidence, it's good to be in the second or next to last group, it's more the confidence of making that birdie.   
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what sort of came together with your game at the Argentina Open and how you've really taken off since then and put the last year behind you?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I've been working hard a lot, before that.   For two years I was having some injuries that were bothering me, and I got to that tournament already with a lot of work behind it.   
   
 Q.   When you look at that leaderboard, there's only one other player who has won a major and he's also won around here; how does that help you tomorrow, that you've won around here before?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I think it's time to‑‑ definition time.   Tomorrow it's more about execution and about patience.   I don't think it's a big advantage that I've won before.   It's more about patience.   
   
 Q.   Did you have any particular strategy coming into today's round, and how will it be different tomorrow?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Today, you know, I wanted to hit the ball under par and I did it.   Tomorrow there's not a lot of margin for error.   I've just got to play well so I can win the tournament.   
   
 Q.   Explain the conditions of the course, good, bad, tough, easy?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I think the conditions were good.   The challenge out there was the wind direction was constantly changing, so that was one of the biggest challenges.   But overall, the conditions were great.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel it was to your advantage that the pins were so difficult today?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   No, I don't think so.   Everybody out there plays well.   Whoever is playing this week is because they can play well, and they all have the same challenges out there.   
   
 Q.   Phil has often said that one of the reasons he always plays well here is because he doesn't feel like he has to play perfect golf.   He just knows the course and he knows how to miss in the right places and get around.   Is that one of the reasons why you like this golf course and play so well on this golf course?   What is the reason you are always so effective here?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I think it's important that you know where to miss.   That's very important, to know where to miss.   And when you've played so many times or many years this tournament, it really helps just the fact that you know where you can miss a shot.   
   
 Q.   Can you recall your emotions this time in 2009 and how are your emotions compared to then?   How are they now?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   In 2009, I was nervous, anxious.   But now I'm very comfortable.   I know what I've got to do tomorrow to be able to get the win.   
   
 Q.   Again, about 2009, do you have any particular special memories of that, and what was the turning point in that round?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I think the key was the drive I hit on 11 after I made a bogey on 10, and also that putt I made on 16, those are the two things I remember the most.   
   
 Q.   Can you describe the ways you birdied 16 and 18, clubs and distances and the like?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   On 16, I had an 8‑iron, 163 yards, I left it about two meters.   
On 18, I hit a 5‑iron about 185, and I left it about four meters.   
   
 Q.   In past years, I remember seeing you smoking during the round; have you quit smoking?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   (Reaching into pockets, pulling out cigarettes).   I don't smoke anymore on the course.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   You went out with Rory McIlroy in the past in the last round; how much does that experience help you for tomorrow?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   Obviously it all adds up to constantly be playing to the last round, that helps you to be more calm and have that experience.   It all adds up and helps.   
   
 Q.   Your coach, Charlie, said just outside, that two tee shots scare you, one at your home course and one at the first tee here; why does the first tee after two major championships still do that?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   It doesn't scare me, but I do get nervous.   It's Augusta National, it's a tough shot.   And also my home course, the first hole, because it's my home course.   
But here, it's something special; it's Augusta.   
   
 Q.   You may have heard before you went off today about the complicated ruling involving Tiger Woods, and he got a penalty for something yesterday but didn't get disqualified for the scorecard.   Did you have any reaction today about how all that went down?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   To be honest, I didn't know anything when I got here at the club.   I didn't know anything about it.   All I can say, it's the rules.   
   
 Q.   What kind of cigarettes are they?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   (Laughter).   
MODERATOR:   Congratulations.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT