SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 29, 2012
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Angle, very nicely done today.   No bogies.   Hit it close a lot.   Two long putts at the first and last.   Well done.  
ANGEL CABRERA:   It's just a great day.   I did everything well.   I hit it very well and I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Only two missed greens.   Charlie help you a lot to get ready for this week?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   He's been helping me a little for awhile and it just pays off.   It's the fruit of the labor.  
   
 Q.   Was that Charlie talking or was that you?   He's a great guy.   Just seeing him seems to relax you, doesn't it?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   He's not a bad person.  
   
 Q.   Getting ready for another Major Championship.   You play these so well.   You're just peaking at the right time?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   I'm just trying to play good again and just working hard, and next week is a special week and keep working hard.  
   
 Q.   Good job today.   Good luck.  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Thank you very much.  
   
 Q.   Thanks so much.   
Angel Cabrera, with an opening round 7-under, 65.   Been struggling a little bit this year.   How good was this round today?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   I hadn't had many good weeks so far, but this was a special day and I played well and good -- could start my year off.  
   
 Q.   What worked today?   To shoot 65, something had to be very good.  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Hit the ball very well, and I put it close and took care of the chances that I had.  
   
 Q.   With the Masters next week, how important is it to have a good week here?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Very important.   It's really important to have really hit the ball well so I can go into next week with a lot of confidence.  
   
 Q.   Nice playing out there today.  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   How was the course?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   The course is perfect.   It's really spectacular and it's right for making a good score.  
   
 Q.   How does this prepare you for next week, or do you look at it as a preparation for next week, Angel, or is it solely different event here?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   I really want to play well this week.   I'm focused on this week.   Of course, I want to go into next week with confidence, but this is my week.   I'm focused for here.  
   
 Q.   How well could you do if you had a decent putting coach?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   I got to answer that one?   I'll plead the Fifth on that.   
   
 Q.   How is this set up for next week?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Next week are different greens than here at the Shell Houston Open.  
   
 Q.   Carl Pettersson said these are the best greens he had seen all year.   Would you share that opinion?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   The greens are very, very good.   The course is prepared very, very well.   It's a great golf course.  
   
 Q.   If the weather holds like it is, do you expect the scores to be low every day?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Obviously, if the weather stands, yes, it's a course where you can shoot low numbers.   If the weather changes, it's going to be different.  
   
 Q.   I know you've been working hard to get your game where it is.   Did today come at all as a surprise, or have you seen this starting to come with the work that you do?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   I'm not surprised at all.   I've been working hard and I'm not surprised.   I played well.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT