QUAIL HOLLOW CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2010
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE: Angel, thanks for joining us for a few minutes after a 5-under 67 today. Just your comments on the course and the round.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I had a very good day, was very happy with the way I drove the golf ball, was able to make some key putts and I'm very content with my outcome.   
  
  Q. You've played here a couple times and never broken 70 before this year but obviously playing very well. What's different about Quail Hollow this time?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I've been working hard all year and been waiting for a round like this, and I haven't broken 70 year, but this has just been my hard work coming into this tournament.   
  
  Q. How surprised were you by what you saw out of Tiger Woods today?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I don't watch him much when he plays, and he just had a bad day.   
  
  Q. Was there a hole or a shot today that sort of really got it going for you?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I had a very good drive on No. 1, and that just gave me a lot of confidence for the rest of the day.   
  
  Q. What's the key to winning here this weekend?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: You've just got to work on your patience. The course is going to get harder over the weekend, and if you have patience, that's the way you win a tournament.  
    
  Q. How close do you feel like being at the top of your game?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I'm real close. I know I'm working hard, and I'm real close to being at the top of my game.   
  
  Q. You put on a clinic out there for a bunch of holes, and that was pretty spectacular, and you looked like you were just having fun.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I had two great days. I'm very happy today, and I really played well today.  
  
  Q. What is it about when you start playing well, that driver seems to go another 20 yards.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: When the driver gets going that good, that's when I really get playing good and start having fun.  
  
  Q. Tell me about how much more difficult this course played in round 2 than round 1 even though you played better.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: The greens got harder, harder and faster in the afternoon, and you had to be careful, and you could miss some short putts if you weren't careful.  
  
  Q. How much fun is it to see your name near the top of the leaderboard going into the weekend? That's got to feel good.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: It's been a while. I've been waiting for this opportunity. I want a chance, and I'm really happy that I'm on top of the leaderboard.   
  
  Q. What do you think of Tiger? Was it hard watching that while you were having a great round?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: When I play, I play my game, and that's all I worry about. I don't worry about anybody else.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT