SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2010
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: Okay. We'd like to welcome Angel Cabrera into the interview room here at the Shell Houston Open. Angel, thanks for coming by and spending a few minutes with us. You just got off the course. If we can get your comments on your preparations for this week.  
 ANGEL CABRERA: The course is very good. I'm happy with his preparation. I'm still trying to improve my putting. I'm working on that, but I feel very good and everything is in good shape.  
 JOHN BUSH: Just talk a little bit -- this is your fourth start at the Shell Houston Open. Talk a little bit, look ahead for us to next week as you defend in Augusta.  
 ANGEL CABRERA: I'm focused on this week and this week only. I want to the play good here, and then next week I'll focus on next week.  
 JOHN BUSH: Open up for questions.  
  
  Q. What are your memories of Houston? Given the fourth start and the course has changed over the course of that four years, what are your impressions this year?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: Every time I come here, I feel very good. The course is in great shape, and every change that's been made has just made it even better.  
  
  Q. How did you enjoy your pre-Masters dinner in Houston?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: It was just a hundred percent Argentine. I enjoyed it very much. I really, really liked it.  
 JOHN BUSH: Questions?  
  
  Q. I was going to ask you, I was doing a story on play-offs, and obviously you had a very memorable playoff last year at Augusta. Just in general, how does the mindset change in the playoffs? And could you just talk about that, particularly that first playoff hole, how you dug deep and rallied?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: In the playoff, you just got to play each shot and one after another and just do as best you can.  
  
  Q. Does the mindset change, more of a match play mindset in a playoff?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: You know, sure, it's a different mindset between medal play and match play. But the fact is that still in match play, you're playing shot by shot and nothing else.   
 JOHN BUSH: Anything else? Angel, thank you very much.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT