MASTERS TOURNAMENT MEDIA DAY
March 2, 2010
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   STEVE ETHUN: Good morning, everyone. It's a pleasure to welcome you to today's conference call with defending Masters Champion, Angel Cabrera. As you all remember last year, Angel posted rounds of 68-68-69-71. That's a 12-under par 276 total. He joined Kenny Perry and Chad Campbell in a three-man playoff, which he won on the second hole No. 10 after an amazing par save on No. 18. In doing so, he became our first South American Masters Champion. This year will mark his 11th appearance at the Masters and we will be looking forward to having him back for many years to come.   
 Angel, welcome. Thanks for taking the time to be with us today. If you could, give us an opening statement and maybe talk about your year as a Masters Champion, please.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: It's very important for me. It signifies a lot of importance, that I can win majors; it wasn't just by luck that I won the U.S. Open. It tells me that I can get those big tournaments. It gives me a lot of merit, and it especially helps me that I can win more tournaments.   
  
  Q. I have two questions. One, what is the most significant shot you hit to win the Masters?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: It's very difficult to really think about one shot. I had many good shots, but if I had to pick some, that second shot I hit on 13 was key. That putt I made on 16 was also very important. I made a lot of key shots. It's hard to just pick one or two.   
  
  Q. And secondly, what did you like about being the Masters Champion for a year, and was there anything you didn't like?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Well, I think the greatest memory is when they were putting on the green jacket. That's a dream come true for any golfer and something I will always remember.   
 There's other things, though, maybe some heavy things that you have to always explain exactly what happened many times, and sometimes you can get tired. But at the same time, I know it's part of everything, of winning the Masters.  
  
  Q. Can you compare the reaction in Argentina after your victory to the reaction to the 2007 U.S. Open, and did the Masters win mean more to your country, and is there more interest there about the Masters, because of De Vincenzo in 1968, or because it was your second major victory?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: Well, I have to say that both are special, but always the first homecoming has to have a meaning for what I had accomplished. Also when I the Masters, it was even bigger and even more of a heart-warming welcome for me. It's hard to really compare. I think the U.S. Open is a great tournament. I think the Masters is a great Tournament, and they both belong up there. So I just think both are very special.   
  
  Q. I just wanted to ask you how you are doing leading up to the Masters. How is your game?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I'm working hard. I still have some weeks left. I'm going to dedicate more and work hard this month and really get there in a good form. But I still have a lot of work to do and I have some time to prepare still.   
  
  Q. If you could just tell us how you celebrated winning the green jacket on that Sunday night.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: It was a calm night in many senses. I was with my friends. We had to fly the next day to Argentina. There were a few Argentinians with me and we just celebrated all the way.   
  
  Q. I was hoping if you could talk about the golf course, and if you like it; why, and what about the golf course presents the greatest challenge for you?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yeah, I like the course a lot. There's nothing tricky. It's out there. It's a good golf course. I think one of the keys is always the second shot to the greens. And also, if you don't hit the greens, how you can recover with your short game; I think that's the most important thing, second shots and short game.   
  
  Q. You struck up a relationship with Charlie Epps I believe in 2007 before the U.S. Open win. Can you talk about the impact he's had on you and your success?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I've spent some time with Charlie Epps, and I realize that if you really want to get to that second step, you've got to work hard and you need somebody that can help you, a professor sore a friend to achieve those goals to give you that extra edge. And.  
 I realized that the rest of the players were doing it and it's something that I've been doing and it's been working. That's why we have had a good relationship in recent years with Charlie.   
  
  Q. How much was Charlie's experience and with De Vincenzo growing up a factor in your bonding with him, in particular?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I think it was very important that I knew him. And my English isn't very good, and he also knew the customs of growing up in Villa Allende in Córdoba, and he knew where I was coming from and I think that's where it bonded to for us to be together.   
  
  Q. Kenny Perry hit his tee ball at 16 incredibly close, looked like it was a kick-in birdie, hit it to about 16, 18 feet. Just curious, what were your thoughts as you walked to the 16th green knowing Kenny was so tight?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: It wasn't much to be thinking about. I knew that putt depended -- I had to make it if I had a chance to win, especially that he was so close. I was just thinking that I had to make that putt to have a chance to win.   
  
  Q. How do you prepare for this year's Masters differently from last year now that you are going to start as the defending Champion?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: Augusta is a special tournament you have to prepare mentally, physically. You can't just get to the Tournament thinking you have to play. You have to know really exactly how your game is and what you want and the way you want to challenge the course.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about the impact your second major has had on the growth of the game in Argentina and what you've done to help grow the game back home?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yeah, it's been very important, what it means to bring back home a Masters win. There's more people practicing the game, especially in Villa Allende in Córdoba where I am have seen a lot of kids are picking up the game, and obviously it's helped a lot.  
  
  Q. I'm wondering if you think that you're going to have, or if you could describe, the different feeling you may be getting when you stand up at the first tee this year as a defender. And do you hope that Tiger is there?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: At this moment I'm not sure exactly what the feeling is going to be. I know it's going to be something special at the moment that it comes but at this time I can't really tell you because it's still some time from it. Obviously I want Tiger to be there. He's the best and when he's there, he makes tournaments different, it's a special tournament.  
  
  Q. Have you given any thought to what you might draw for the menu, your menu for the Champions Dinner?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Obviously there's not a lot to think about: A good Argentina Fogo, some good beef.   
  
  Q. I just want to ask you if there's any example you can offer of the reaction in Argentina specifically since you won the Masters, and as part of that, if you had any interaction with Mr. De Vincenzo and maybe how your connection to him as changed in the wake of your win.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: The homecoming was very special, what everybody wants, winning a major and going back home and celebrating.   
 About Roberto De Vincenzo, I haven't been a lot in contact with him. We live far away. He lives in Buenos Aires and I live in Córdoba. When he stopped playing golf is when I started. So I really don't have much contact with De Vincenzo nowadays.   
  
  Q. Just wanted to know if you can imagine a Masters without Tiger, and when he does come back, if it is the Masters or before, how compelled you are to see how his form will be?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Obviously Tiger is the best and I want him to be back but the Masters will all be the Masters with or without Tiger. And when he does come back, I hope it's in the Masters and he comes back in a great form.   
  
  Q. You seem to have been able to maintain much of your momentum on the Masters win; whereas, in 2007 after the Open, you seemed to have a little down period. Why is that, and do you feel like you're a more complete player than you were in 2007?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I think going into that U.S. Open, I wasn't playing well and then after I won and everything that was put upon me, I wasn't prepared honestly, no. I wasn't ready for all that. And after winning the Masters, I knew and I've gone through that experience and I'm determined to be playing a lot better.   
  
  Q. You seem to have figured out how to win majors. I'm wondering, a lot of players seem to try to get it their game to peak for the big tournaments. Do you do anything special before you play any of the majors to get yourself ready?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, there's no question, the majors is where there's more pressure over you, but you have to play the most naturally you can, and that's something that is very important, to maintain your concentration at all times during majors.  
  
  Q. Your escape from the woods on the first playoff hole reminded many of Seve. I'm wondering if Seve was a particular inspiration to you over your career.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yeah, obviously I've had a lot of opportunities to play a lot of golf with Seve in Europe. He's given me good advice. I think we are very similar in the sense that you get to the ball, you might just see a shot, and you go for it. That's a natural way of the way that I also played, and I just see an opportunity and I go for it.   
 STEVE ETHUN: I know you are very busy in the preparations you have for the tournament this week and getting ready for the Masters here in a few short weeks. We wish you all the best of luck, and thank you everyone for joining us today. Thank you, and we look forward to seeing you in Augusta very soon.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Okay, well, thank you, also, to all of you for being with us today.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT