THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 14, 2009
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MALCOLM BOOTH: Angel, thanks for coming down and joining us. 2007 U.S. Open champion, 2009 Masters champion. Do you feel that you're ready to add The Open Championship to your list of major titles? 
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, I'm feeling very confident and I've been working very hard. My game is okay coming to this tournament. 

 Q. How is your putting? 
 ANGEL CABRERA: Mucho mejor, much better.

 Q. Are you thinking of different putters or do you still like the ones you've got?
 ANGEL CABRERA: No, I'm still with the same putter, the one that I've been using lately, and that has been working out really well so far.

 Q. What would winning the British Open mean to you compared to your other major success?
 ANGEL CABRERA: Well, I always say that I don't like to compare big tournaments, majors. But of course the British Open is very special, and a win here would be absolutely fantastic, very nice.

 Q. What was your first taste of links golf? Did you have it in Argentina, or was it when you first came to Europe that you discovered links golf?
 ANGEL CABRERA: The first time I played links course it was in Mar del Plata, it's called Playa Grande. That was back in the early '90s over there, and that was a very typical links course that I used to play over there.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, I like them very much. And usually links courses are a special challenge for me, and that's why I like them. 

 Q. Do you think having your second major championship under your belt, does that make you more comfortable competitor in the majors than if you have one? If you have two, you're a real proper major champion?
 ANGEL CABRERA: Certainly having won two majors is something that gives me a lot of confidence and makes it a lot easier for me to come and play big tournaments.

 Q. We had Padraig Harrington in here earlier today, and Padraig builds his whole year around playing majors, trying to win them. You on the other hand just seem to stroll into majors now and then and winning them, without any real form going into it or anything. Is it something you actually try to focus on, or is it always as much a surprise to you when you win the Masters as you did this year as it was for those of us who follow you?
 ANGEL CABRERA: Well, I work really hard for every single tournament that I play. Maybe majors I get a little bit more focus, I get a little bit more focused when I play majors. But I cannot really say that I play with less intensity or I work less for other tournaments.

 Q. Do you know when you're going to -- you played brilliantly at Augusta this year and you did at the U.S. Open two years ago. Do you know when you're going to play that well, or does it just happen?
 ANGEL CABRERA: Usually -- well, it just happens sometimes that I feel very comfortable with myself, with my game, with a lot of things and it just happens, but I cannot really say.

 Q. Seve Ballesteros said he knew because he used to wake up and feel a sense of destino; he would feel it in his hands, in his fingers and he would feel right. Do you wake up sometimes and feel like that?
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, there is certainly some days that you wake up and you don't feel very comfortable and sometimes you wake up and you feel very comfortable. And those days sometimes good things happen.

 Q. I wanted to ask you about the course. What's the best way to play it? Are you one to want to take on some of the bunkers to get it down there, or do you prefer to just completely lay back and avoid the bunkers at all costs?
 ANGEL CABRERA: I think I'm going to be playing short of the bunkers pretty much all week. That will be my strategy.

 Q. How do you compare this course with Carnoustie? You were almost in a playoff in Carnoustie. And how do you compare these two courses?
 ANGEL CABRERA: When you compare this to Carnoustie, it's very likely that the differences are that Carnoustie you can attack a few holes over there in Carnoustie. You can hit the driver off the tee more often. Here you have to be cautious all the time. 

 Q. U.S. Open and Masters, have you had more reaction back home, generally, to your Masters victory than to the U.S. Open or about the same?
 ANGEL CABRERA: Well, the U.S. Open was very special with the people in Argentina, because it was the first major victory. And certainly the Masters was very special, as well, and was lived with a lot of intensity by the people in Argentina.

 Q. What do you do for food this week?
 ANGEL CABRERA: Whatever occurs at the moment, at the time of cooking and going shopping.
 MALCOLM BOOTH: Thank you very much for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT