U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2009
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   BETH MURRISON: Good afternoon again from the 2009 U.S. Open championship at Bethpage. We're very happy this afternoon to have Angel Cabrera, the 2007 U.S. Open Champion with us. Angel also played in 2002 and made the cut here at Bethpage. 
 Angel, I know you've played a few rounds here so far this week. Could you talk a little bit how the course is playing and how it might be different from 2002.
 ANGEL CABRERA: The course is playing very long, very hard. The balls are sticking with mud. And I think that's really going to affect the outcome. I don't really remember a lot of 2002, but I do think it's going to play a lot longer than 2002 and that's going to be a big difference.
 BETH MURRISON: Since winning in 2007, you've also added this year's Masters title to your accomplishments. Could you talk a little bit about that and how that helps coming into this year's Open? 
 ANGEL CABRERA: The fact that I've won a U.S. Open, I started the year great winning the Masters. Obviously that gives me a lot of confidence to get things done this week.

 Q. How often do you let yourself think about winning the year's Slam?
 ANGEL CABRERA: No, not really. I don't think of that. No, first I've got to play good this week. Have a good tournament this week. Then I'll think of the next tournament. 

 Q. Could you just talk about some of the celebrations and some of the memorable messages maybe you got congratulating you on the Masters after you won?
 ANGEL CABRERA: I think the first thing that comes to mind is greeting my family in the airport getting off the plane with my green jacket. That's what I remember the most. 

 Q. You said you didn't remember much of the course from 2002, but there are some significant changes, the graduated rough for one thing, some of the fairways have been expanded as has the course, it's gotten longer. The USGA has said that they're trying to make this maybe a little fairer test of golf than it might have been in 2002, putting a little bit more risk/reward opportunities into the golf course. Did you find that in your practice round?
 ANGEL CABRERA: I don't know if it's fair or unfair. I just know the course is playing very hard, and I think the course is going to be out there and be a big test. And I do think the rough's still playing very hard. 

 Q. You had quite a following out there during the back nine, a lot of people yelling things at you, for you. How do you explain your popularity here?
 ANGEL CABRERA: I'm in America to win the U.S. Open, and the Masters; it's a great recognition. People really valued that kind of win, and I just thank all of them for giving me all those expressions. 

 Q. You're going to be playing with Tiger and there's going to be lots of people following you then. How do you feel about that? Does it get you excited to be out there playing with him, and would it be different if you hadn't won an Open already and the Masters playing with Tiger?
 ANGEL CABRERA: If I hadn't won a U.S. Open and a Masters I wouldn't be playing with Tiger this week. (Laughter).
 It's great to be able to play with him, to be playing aside the No. 1 player in the world. It's an honor. I wish I could play with him every week. 

 Q. It wasn't long ago it would have been inconceivable to have three players from Argentina in this tournament. What was it like just playing with Andres and Eduardo today in this practice round?
 ANGEL CABRERA: It was great. It had been a long time since I played with Eduardo in a practice round. We did it 12 years on the European Tour. And today we were just remembering how much fun we had in those days. 

 Q. Which tournament is more fun for you to play in, the Masters or the U.S. Open, and why?
 ANGEL CABRERA: I don't like to compare. I think all majors are big tournaments. U.S. Open, Masters, British, PGA. It's not even fair to compare. Every tournament has something special?

 Q. Do you think of yourself as a hero for Hispanic Americans, and how have they received you?
 ANGEL CABRERA: I don't know necessarily if I'm a hero, but if it helps to motivate all the Hispanics who are surrounding the game of golf and helps promote the game; that's what I want. 

 Q. Your friends have said you're a very good cook. I'm wondering, what is it about cooking that you enjoy so much?
 ANGEL CABRERA: It's not the fact that I cook well; what happens they can't cook. So they think I can cook. 

 Q. You've said before when you won at Oakmont that you had a lot of pressure over your shoulder, that, you know, you felt it, but now after winning the Masters, you seem more relaxed, enjoying playing out there. 
 ANGEL CABRERA: It's obvious I think I wasn't that much prepared to win at the U.S. Open; all the commitments, all the pressure. 
 And now after winning the Masters, I know what it's all about, and I can go through it a lot easier?

 Q. This is a course that is normally played, New Yorkers can come here and play for under $50. A lot of policemen and firemen, carpenters, blue-collar people come here; it's that kind of atmosphere. To play host for the United States Open in that kind of a course, how important is that for golf to take a major championship, bring it to a home like this and considering your own background, as well. 
 ANGEL CABRERA: I think this is great that there's access of a course like this, practice, and it just facilitates to grow the game. 

 Q. Could you talk about the state of your game right now, what you're doing well, or maybe any areas you'd like to get a little bit better before Thursday?
 ANGEL CABRERA: My game's very good. I arrived Wednesday to work with my coach, Charlie Epps in Houston. We worked a lot maybe on my short game, maybe that's where I was lacking some improvement. So I think I'm ready?
 BETH MURRISON: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT