THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 8, 2009
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NELSON SILVERIO: Thanks for spending a few minutes with us here. Give us some general thoughts, pretty good round out there today.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Pretty good round out there. My tee shots were pretty much the difference today. I was able to get the hole started out right.   
  
  Q. Such an up-and-down two days. You started off with a bogey on the first hole. Why so inconsistent, I guess, the first two days?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: It really comes down, like I was saying earlier, to the tee shots. Yesterday I just wasn't getting it off the tee in the appropriate spots. Today I did that well, and you'll see the difference in my score.   
  
  Q. Were you also putting better today?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yeah, even yesterday I putted pretty well, too. I had 25 or 26 putts. But I just continued that today.   
  
  Q. How are you a different player than you were after winning the Open a couple years ago? Are you a different player than you were then?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I think it's more that I know I can win a big tournament now. I'm pretty much the same player, but the fact that I've won these big tournaments just gives me that confidence that I know I can do it, so I just have to go out and do it.   
  
  Q. No. 18 here obviously is regarded as the hardest hole on the course, but 14 seems to be not too far behind. What is it about that hole, especially today, that's been really tough for some guys, and why do you think it plays so hard?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yeah, they're very, very complicated holes, and the fact that I was able to par 14 and birdie 18, you know you're going to have a good day if you do that.   
  
  Q. Just talk about life since winning the Masters and the second major, and did you have a good feeling coming in here because of all of that just in general?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: My life is the same. I've got the same friends, I hang out at the same places, and my game is the same. I just have, again, like I was saying earlier, the confidence that I know I can win these major tournaments. But in terms of day-to-day life, it's been pretty much the same.  
  
  Q. Did you go home, and how were you greeted when you went home?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: They had a great welcoming for me, but when it all comes down to it, it was the same. They're my friends and they treated me the same way, but they did give me a very nice reception when I landed in Argentina.   
  
  Q. Did you let other people wear the green jacket?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: No, me only.   
  
  Q. Any special plans for tomorrow's round?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Not really, it just depends on the weather conditions out there, and just stick to my game, keep doing what I'm doing.   
  
  Q. You're barbecuing, but who's doing the dishes?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I've got a dishwasher.   
  
  Q. Does that mean Charlie is out of a job?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: Charlie is done. Just this week.   
  
  Q. Do you plan on doing anything different career-wise following this Masters, the second major championship? Will you do anything personally different in the way you prepare than you did after the Open? Did you learn something after winning the Open and how you played following that, that you were going to maybe try to change a little bit this summer?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: All tournaments are important to me. I really haven't changed the way I prepare for them, but I have been working really hard, especially the last year. I've been working very hard on my game.   
 But in terms of preparation for an event, not really, no big changes.  
  
  Q. Do you have your own green jacket now or do you still have the one that they give you after the tournament or do they give you your own personal jacket?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: The one I've got is mine. They don't lend it to me.   
  
  Q. Your name is in it?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: I won it. It's my jacket.   
  
  Q. They used to put one on for the ceremony that belongs to a member.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I've got it in my house. It's mine.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT