MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2009
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CLAUDE NIELSEN: Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. It's my pleasure to introduce to you Angel Cabrera, from Argentina. Seven Top-25 finishes in 2008, captured his first major at the 2007 U.S. Open. This is his 10th Masters appearance, with his best finish, tied for eighth in 2006.   
 Today, Angel posted a 4-under par 68 for the first round of this 2009 competition. Angel, welcome back to Augusta. If you could give us a few comments, please, about your opening round, and then we'll take questions.   
 ANGEL CABRERA: It was a very good round for me today. It was a round that every player expects to have as a first round in a Major, to hit good shots and make good putts.   
  
  Q. How long is the golf course this year compared to the last couple of years when the weather was bad? Is it playing a lot shorter and more manageable that way?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: It's playing a little bit shorter. That's because the ball is -- because of the flight of the ball, and probably the weather. But this is Augusta, so this is long or short, whatever.   
  
  Q. Doesn't matter that much?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: No.   
  
  Q. What would you hit to 13 and 15 if you hit a good drive in these conditions?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: On 13, I was not able to hit a good driver, so I cannot really tell. But on 15, I hit a good drive and 4-iron second shot.   
  
  Q. You won the U.S. Open on arguably the most treacherous greens that are played in America. Do you enjoy putting on fast greens, and do you feel you excel at it?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I like playing tough greens. I guess what I like is just to play the way they are and like everybody else, but just when greens are so tough, you need to be patient, and that's what I tried to do.   
  
  Q. Was the wind a factor at all today or a factor on some holes and maybe not on others?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: The wind played a role today. There was a little bit of wind, but you had to consider the wind in every single shot, but it was not a major problem.   
  
  Q. Are you playing very well?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: I've been working very hard and I'm working very hard on my game, and I think I feel like I'm hitting the ball very well, like I used to hit it two years ago.   
  
  Q. What do you think the winning score is going to be?  
 ANGEL CABRERA: It is very difficult to predict the winning score here at this golf course. It's very, very difficult.   
  
  Q. The skills you demonstrated two years ago in winning the Open, will those same skills translate and work on this golf course?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: It's different, because a U.S. Open golf course plays in a different way. It's very tough, the way they set up the course.   
 But nevertheless, this is a very difficult course, as well, and you have to be very good in short game here in Augusta to be able to win.   
  
  Q. Could you go over the clubs and the yardages on the birdies, on the birdie holes?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: Driver and 6-iron, No. 2. Chip and a putt of three, four feet.   
 Driver, lob-wedge on No. 3 and a putt from nine feet.   
 Driver and pitching wedge on 7 and a putt of 15 feet.   
 8, driver, 2-iron and two putts from 20 feet.   
 13, 3-wood, lay-up, and a sand wedge and a putt from nine feet.   
 15, driver and a 4-iron, chip to 12, 14 feet.   
  
  Q. How far was the second shot on 8, the 2-iron?   
 ANGEL CABRERA: 265.   
 CLAUDE NIELSEN: Very good. Any further questions? Angel, thank you very much, and good luck to you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT