THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 6, 2014
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes.   This was a great opportunity.   I wanted it.   I needed to win a tournament.   I felt under control today out there, and I didn't want to let it get away from me.

Q.   Did you sense before the day began that because of the inexperience of Billy Hurley that perhaps you were the favorite and that perhaps 10‑under was the lead before the final round, not 12‑under?
ANGEL CABRERA:   No, no.   He was the leader.   He was 12‑under.   He knew he had to do the things right to win the tournament.

Q.   We've talked before in the past that of all the majors you feel like the Open championship is one that you should have a very good chance of winning.   Now that you're in this type of form, what does that do to your frame of mind heading to Royal Liverpool in a couple of weeks?
ANGEL CABRERA:   I've been confident with my golf swing, and I feel confident mentally, and I'm just going to go over there and play, and it's a very important tournament and it's a different tournament, but I'm going to go play.

Q.   Angel, congratulations.   Another great day of ball striking.   Talk about the day you had today. 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes.   Thank you very much.   Today was very special.   It was a really important par on No. 2 after hitting a poor drive, and after that I felt under control, and it's very nice to win.

Q.   Tell me about the eagle at 13, 175 yards.   And you didn't clinch it then, but boy, that was a big two shots you picked up. 
ANGEL CABRERA:   I was in between yards.   I was actually at 182 yards between the 7 and 8‑iron, and I was arguing with my caddie, and I said, I'm just going to hit a hard 8‑iron.

Q.   It worked out pretty good, didn't it?   You struggled early in the season, but the last few weeks you seem like you're really starting to play well.   You culminate this with a win.   How much does this give a boost for the rest of the year?
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yeah.   The beginning of the year I was a little slow, but I've been working hard, and we're going to continue working hard and see what happens.

Q.   Congratulations.   Great week. 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Thank you very much, sir. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT