PGA GRAND SLAM OF GOLF
October 17, 2007
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JULIUS MASON:  Angel Cabrera, your winner of the 2007 PGA Grand Slam of Golf.  Congratulations.  Give us some thoughts on your round today and we'll go through your card and then we'll go to questions. 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   The only thing I can say is it was complicated after the first hole, and I was able to come back and that was a great thing. 
 JULIUS MASON:  Go through your card. 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   On the first hole, the driver, I think I was aiming the wrong way.  It was not a bad shot.  And definitely got me into trouble. 
 JULIUS MASON:  Explain the position in the trees, what shot you had and what you did to try to -- 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   I only had a line to move it like 20 yards.  So I just was trying to move it, going forward, and I wasn't able to get it out of the bushes. 
 Bogey on 2 was 3-putt.  First birdie came on the 6th hole.  Very good second shot, left it three, four feet from the hole.  Made a birdie on 7 by making a putt from 20 feet, maybe. 
 JULIUS MASON:  Did you worry about the water? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   At that point I was kind of behind on the leaderboard so I wasn't really worried about the water at that point. 
 What kept me, what put me in the tournament was a great birdie on 10 and a eagle on 11.  That kept me going. 

 Q.  The first hole in the bushes, on TV it looked like the ball came close to hitting you.  Did it come back towards you; did it come close? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   Hit a branch and it came towards me and almost hit me. 

 Q.  How close did it come? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   Pretty close.  Pretty close.  If it doesn't hit the branch, it will hit me. 

 Q.  Have you ever been in trouble like that? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   I've always had a lot of trouble in golf.  It's nothing new. 
 JULIUS MASON: What hole did we leave off on the card? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   7, 3-wood, 9-iron, and 15 to 20 feet 9-iron second shot and 20 feet putt. 
 I hit a bad tee shot on 12, and so I had to make a shot just to lay up; and I wasn't able to save par there. I hit a driver way right on the 16th hole but the ball wasn't lying very bad.  But my shot went too long and I wasn't able to save par from there. 
 On the 17th tee I told my caddie I needed to make 2 and 3 to be able to get a chance.  I hit a very good shot on the 17th hole, 8-iron, and was able to hit the ball very close and make the putt, eight feet. 
 On the 18th hole, a perfect drive and a perfect 3-iron, I think the best two shots of the tournament for sure, like four feet from the hole, four or five feet. 

 Q.  This is only an exhibition, how does it feel?  Does it still feel like hard work and a lot of emotion? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   An exhibition, but I always like to win every time I play.  And I wouldn't have liked to be second here. 

 Q.  What did you think was a more dire, bad situation for you, being five shots behind after No. 1 or being two shots behind going to the 17th? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   I think it was more difficult to be two shots behind on the 17th hole than being five shots behind on the second tee.  Because on the second tee there was a lot of golf left and not on 17; you don't have too many holes there (Laughter). 

 Q.  How surprised are you to have won after such a start like that, to be that far behind? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   I'm never surprised about winning, because that's what I work for.  I do this for a living. 

 Q.  There was a couple of times in the last two days where you hit big tee shots and had, seemed like, tough yardage so close to the green.  For example, No. 5 today, big tee shot, chunk in the bunker.  Did you ever think later as the round went on about laying back more off the tee for a fuller shot? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:   Well, I trust my driver very much.  And I thought it would be nice here to show off a little bit and to show everybody how nice and how hot I hit my driver. 
 JULIUS MASON:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT