THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 5, 2014
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Angel, yesterday you had a little bit of difficulty with the speed of the greens.   Today, perfect, you figured it out, and it's a brilliant 64.   
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, I was able to get the speed of the greens and that was the big difference.  
   
 Q.   I think one of the keys to your round was the 14th hole where you hit a poor wedge, but you got it up‑and‑down and you saved the momentum.   It really seemed to change your attitude?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, that was really a good par because I had just bogeyed 13.   So for me to get it up‑and‑down and save the round, yes.  
   
 Q.   Won twice in America, The Masters and the U.S. Open, what's it going to take for you to win a regular event?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I've just got to keep waiting, keep working, just wait, that's all I have to do.  
   
 Q.   You know that Argentina won today in the World Cup.   Your thoughts going forward?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I was very happy when I found out they won, but I had also started with three birdies on the first four, so...  
   
 Q.   Angel, great round of golf today, 6‑under.   Your thoughts on how you played?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   Thank you very much.   Yes, I hit it really good off the tee.   The new driver I have the G30 was really solid off the tee, so I'm very happy.  
   
 Q.   I thought a great save at 14 to go up‑and‑down there and make par and nice birdie putts at 16 and 17.   That was kind of a great finish for you.   
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, it was very, very important because I had just bogeyed 13 and to save par there was really very important.  
   
 Q.   This your first time playing in this tournament.   What do you think of the resort and the golf course?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   It's very impressive, and the first time I've played here and the golf course is in perfect shape.  
   
 Q.   Have you enjoyed the concerts and the casino maybe?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   Not right now.   I'm still really focused on having a good tournament.   So right now I'm focused.  
   
 Q.   What was working for you out there?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   It's been a while I've been working very hard, so it's just hard work to get me in this position.  
   
 Q.   Is this the kind of course you can always be aggressive on or do you have to just pick your spots out there?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   It's a course that allows me to use my driver a lot.   I'm hitting my driver right now very well.  
   
 Q.   What is more important to you, playing well today or seeing Argentina beat Belgium 1‑0?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I need to play well and they need the title, so we both have to play well.  
   
 Q.   What was working for you out there today?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I've been playing well.   I played well yesterday and today, and today I made some putts finally, and that really made the difference.  
   
 Q.   You have two major championships and now you're looking for your first regular PGA TOUR win.   Do you feel you're doing things in reverse a little bit?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   No, I'd like to continue winning majors, but if I win this nice tournament, I'll be very happy.  
   
 Q.   First time here and now being a couple shots back in the final round.   
ANGEL CABRERA:   It's a very impressive golf course.   Of course, I want to play well and have fun.  
   
 Q.   Four birdies on your first six holes.   How important was it to get off to such a good start?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I just felt birdieing 1 and 2 was really important.   I knew I could continue playing well the rest of the day.  
   
 Q.   There are a lot of players on the leaderboard who haven't won on the PGA TOUR yet.   Do you feel you have an advantage going into tomorrow because you have the experience?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   That's probably not going to play into it.   All I have to do is keep playing well.   I'd like to have the title, and I've just got to keep working.  
   
 Q.   That up‑and‑down on 14 keeping the momentum going in your round and you come in and birdie 16 and 17?   
ANGEL CABRERA:   That was a big moment.   I had just bogeyed 13, and I hit a bad second shot.   So to come out and make par there was really a nice moment and kept the round going.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT