WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 1, 2007
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Usually this tournament is the week after the PGA Championship.  This week it's the week before, and then you have the PGA Championship, two weeks after that the Barclays, making this stretch here a real important stretch.  Talk about the need to be on your game every week as these next two months go. 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, personally I feel very comfortable.  These are obviously big events.  You have to play well.  And again, I feel comfortable, and I like where my game is at right now. 

 Q.  Is this a particularly brutal stretch physically? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yeah, I'm actually used to playing a lot.  I've played as much as six in a row over in Europe, so this is something that I'm accustomed to. 

 Q.  How has it been since the win at the Open?  We were talking with Padraig Harrington this morning, and he said it's been crazy for two weeks and probably will still stay that way.  Is it still a big wave of media and fans and people in Argentina still wanting your time and making it a little more difficult to focus on golf? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yeah, it's been a crazy couple weeks for me or month for me.  It's something that I'm not really used to, so it's taken me a little bit out of my game.  But overall it's been positive.  There's been a lot of press, a lot of fans, a lot of requests on my time.  It was a crazy two weeks in Cordoba after I went back home, but overall I think I've bounced back positive. 

 Q.  Just to follow up, what are maybe the highlights of everything that has happened since the Open, and if there is anything even bad, what that might be? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  No, nothing negative.  The contrary, it's all been very positive, but just it's something I'm not very used to because you don't win a U.S. Open every day. 

 Q.  Is there someone you met or heard from that was very touching? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  To the contrary, I think people have met me more than I've met other people.  They know my story now. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the impact of this event if Jim Furyk isn't able to go? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  It would be a shame if a great player like Furyk would be out.  It would be a shame for golf and a shame for this tournament.  He's a great player. 

 Q.  They said you weren't feeling well.  Is it serious? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yeah, it's been really cold in Argentina, so I've got a cold.  It's just been lingering, but I'll make it through it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT