THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2007
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   STEWART McDOUGALL:  Ladies and gentlemen, welcome to Angel Cabrera, the U.S. Open champion. 
 You come here as the U.S. Open champion.  You played The Open Championship for the last few years.  Does this change the way you attack the The Open this year. 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  No, I'm going to play the same way I have played before, and this is a British Open golf course and I'm going to try to just play concentrated, that's it. 

 Q.  What do you remember about 1999, one stroke out of the playoff?  Do you look back on a hole or two that could have made the difference and gotten you into the playoff? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  I know that I missed the playoff by one shot at that time and I really didn't notice when I finished that I was so close to winning.  Then what I can remember was definitely the putt on the 18th hole that barely missed on the right.  That putt would have gotten me into the playoff. 

 Q.  I wonder if you could tell us how life has changed since you've become a Major champion.  Is life much better now or is it worse? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  It cannot be worse. 

 Q.  What's different, what's better, apart from the money? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  I feel a lot more comfortable, confident with myself knowing that I can win big golf tournaments like this one. 

 Q.  When you look at how different the course is now from 1999, what have been your impressions?  Obviously it's going to depend a lot on the weather, but what do you think a possible winning score may be? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, this is a British Open course, and it's not as tough as it was in 1999.  You have to be very careful on the first holes here, because you can score high on those.  The winner, you don't know until the last day. 

 Q.  Can you describe, please, what excitement there was back in Argentina after the U.S. Open win, and also was there much excitement in the media?  Did you attend any functions, for example, back home, celebrating your win? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  When I got to the airport there was a lot of people waiting there.  There was a very big parade going from the airport to my hometown.  Then everybody got there like in a city hall and there was big crowds there.  And then we went to see the governor of C贸rdoba, which is the state where I live.  We also went to the legislation -- to the Congress of the state.  They gave me some awards.  The golf club where I belong, the C贸rdoba Golf Club made a big party as well.  I made a lot of parties, myself, with friends. 
 And also, well, next week we're going to go see the president.  The president has asked me to come visit.  We're going to go see Kirshner. 

 Q.  I was just wondering what was the reaction of Eduardo Romero back in C贸rdoba to your win, and the reaction of your fellow professionals on Tour to your win at the Open? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Unfortunately I didn't have a chance to see Eduardo.  He was playing in the U.S., different tournaments.  But I have received a call from Eduardo.  He was very happy about this win.  Also I received so many calls from fellow professional golfers from Argentina.  So everybody gave me a call and said how happy they were for me and that was very nice of them. 

 Q.  We see so many players coming through the collegiate system or taking advantage of golf as a rich man's game.  Could you give us an idea of your background and how you grew up playing golf in C贸rdoba? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  It is in many countries a sport for rich people, definitely.  But in Argentina there is still caddies -- there are a lot of caddies there at different golf clubs in Argentina, and that gives us a chance to play golf and work with golf.  That was my case.  So I was lucky enough to grow up on a golf course, be a caddie and get to know the sport of golf. 
 STEWART McDOUGALL:  Thank you very much. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT