BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 11, 2007
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Some thoughts on the tournament this week; you've played well here in the   
past?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yeah, like you said, it's a course that I like and I've played well here in the past.  It's a very important week, before one of the best tournaments in the week next week and I'm looking forward to coming into The Open, as well.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Two majors in a row?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Why not? (Smiling)   
  
  Q.  Having now won a major, do you do you feel you're a better golfer?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Mentally it gives me a lot of confidence.  I know now that I can beat the best players in the world and that I can win Major Championships.   
  
  Q.  What was it like going back to Cordoba as a Major winner?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, when I got back home right then is what I realised what I had done. Everyone was congratulating me and all of my friends were great especially the ones who were with me through the bad times, so it was absolutely wonderful.    
  
  Q.  Do you consider yourself a favourite to win The Open?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  I feel that I could win The Open Championship on certain golf courses, and I think I have a chance to win at Carnoustie which is where The Open is.   
  
  Q.  Is Carnoustie one of your favourite courses?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, really it doesn't favour me.  It's a tough course.  If you play badly, you're going to shoot over par, and the weather conditions are going to play a factor in the tournament.   
  
  Q.  Colin Montgomerie said this week is a second shot golf course and next week is more of a driving course?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  That's what Monty thinks, but I think you need to hit every shot well, off the tee and on the green.   
  
  Q.  Will you feel more pressure to win now that you have won a Major?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, it's a little bit hard but that's what comes with winning a major championship.  You just have to deal with the pressure of the public, the crowds, the pressure of the press and everybody and it comes with winning a major.   
  
  Q.  Have you been watching the Copa America?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  No, I couldn't really watch any football.   
  
  Q.  Were you hopeful that Argentina will win?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yes.    
  
  Q.  Eduardo Romero has been talking recently about a  new generation of around 50 or 60 young players from Argentina who could make a real mark on the game - do you agree?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  It's been a great celebration and everything has been wonderful.  It's meant a lot to Argentina and hopefully we'll see more young players coming out.   
 Yeah, anybody has a chance to win being from Argentina.  There are a lot of young players in Argentina, players on the U.S. Tour and I would not be surprised if another wins a major.   
  
  Q.  When Michael Campbell won a major, they stopped Parliament to congratulate him, has anything like that happened to you?   
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yeah, I've received lots of invitations to meet with the governor and even the President of Argentina.  I wasn't able to go to all of them because of my tight schedule but I will meet the President for dinner when I get back.   
 MICHAEL GIBBONS:  Muchas Gracias Angel.    
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT