SMURFIT KAPPA EUROPEAN OPEN
July 4, 2007
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Angel Cabrera, U.S. Open Champion.  Your first tournament since coming back from Argentina, how did you enjoy your time. 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  I enjoyed celebrating my victory especially with my family and friends.  It's been a very nice time there. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  What was the he reception like for you when you returned to Argentina? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  It was very impressive.  I was not expecting such a reception by the Argentine people. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Here we are in Ireland, slightly different conditions.  How do you feel at your first tournament back since Oakmont? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  The U.S. Open is over now, and this is a very good week.  I'm looking forward to this next tournament. 

 Q.  Padraig Harrington said players from sunny climates are not going to enjoy this. How do you feel about that? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  I have been already 11 years on The European Tour, so I don't think it's going to be a complication for me. 

 Q.  How much does this win change things for you, how has you life changed? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  My life has not changed much sports-wise.  Well, the good thing about having won a major is now I know that I'm capable of winning one, and you know, maybe some others will come. 

 Q.  Will there be less pressure now that you have won a major? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yes, having won already takes some burden.  Always the first major is the most difficult one, so I think that moving forward, it's going to be you know, probably easier. 

 Q.  When you got to Argentina, is there anything that stands out from all of the memories - did you meet anyone famous? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yes, I was, you know, with politicians from my country.  Everyone was wanting to get a few minutes with me but the most important thing was for me to be with my family down there. 

 Q.  Can you describe the form that the celebrations took? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  There was a lot of people waiting for me at the airport when I arrived, and then it was like a parade, a lot of cars going forward to my hometown and everybody celebrating. 
 Then when I got to my hometown, yes, it was a very nice moment because we went to the city hall and everybody was there cheering for me and it was very nice. 

 Q.  Did you play or practise at all while you were at home? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  No.  The first time was here at the driving range. 

 Q.  How did you hit it? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Badly (Laughter). 

 Q.  At the celebrations did you have a glass of wine or a beer? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  I drank everything. 

 Q.  Have you knocked football off the front page? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yeah, it was a very little time, attention was on golf but now it's all back to normal. 

 Q.  Were you introduced on the first tee here as the US Open champion? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  No.  He didn't say that. 

 Q.  What has the reception you have received from your fellow European Tour players been like? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yeah, most of the players here in Ireland have said, you know, congratulations to me, and I would say that everyone that I saw was kind enough to come and say congratulations. 

 Q.  We know you do a lot with charity; is there anything in particular you've done with your prize winnings for charity? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, I didn't have much time during these last two weeks.  But I didn't need to win the U.S. Open to contribute to charities, and I will keep on doing that. 

 Q.  Were there any journalists from Argentina at the U.S. Open? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  No, there was no Argentine journalists at the U.S. Open. 

 Q.  Why not? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Don't know. 

 Q.  As the first major Argentine sports winner in a long time, do you think it will be long before Europe has a major champion, and who do you think it will be? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Europe has very good sport men and golfers and I believe very soon a European is going to win a major.  I cannot give you a name because maybe I'm going to make a mistake giving you a name but certainly I think it's coming very soon. 

 Q.  Because there were no Argentine journalists at the U.S. Open, does that reflect a lack of interest in golf there? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yeah, definitely.  Everybody cares about football only. 

 Q.  Do you feel more responsibility to do well in the future now you are a Major Champion? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, the good thing is that I don't feel obliged anymore to win a major or anything like that. 
 So as far as responsibility is concerned, I feel like I have one burden lifted.  So I probably will keep doing the same thing and playing the same way. 

 Q.  How will you approach Carnoustie? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  I'm going to wait and see how the course is set up and, well, depending how it is setup, I'll see how I'm going to play strategically. 

 Q. I meant mentally?  
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yes, as I said before, I'm going to go to the British Open with one less backpack or burden, so it's going to make it easier for me. 

 Q.  Is it possible to win the US Open, European Open and The Open? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yes, it's possible. 

 Q.  Is there any danger that weather like this discourage players coming to Ireland in future? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  I cannot speak for other players and depends on everyone. Every one knows the climate is like this. 

 Q.  How do you feel about playing in these conditions? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  It is no good for anyone but it is the same for everybody. 

 Q.  How do you keep the cigarettes dry? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  With an umbrella. 

 Q.  When did you decide to play the European Open and did you consider not playing? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  No this tournament was always in my schedule and always intended playing. 

 Q.  Will you be playing more in the U.S. now that you are exempt? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  No, no. It is possible that I might play in the US more than before but I will playing Europe as usual. 

 Q.  Have you seen the video from Oakmont? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  No. Do you have one? 

 Q.  What exchange did you have with Eduardo? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  It was just on the telephone, not in person unfortunately. 

 Q.  One assumes that as the reigning US Open Champion you would have been invited to stay here in the five star hotel on the premises yet you are staying down the road in the same hotel as you have always stayed - is this a sign of things to come? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  I am going to be staying wherever I feel comfortable. Where I am staying there are a lot of Argentine players and I feel comfortable there and I am not going to change that. 

 Q.  How long was the motorcade from the airport to Cordoba? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  About five miles. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Thank you, Angel.  Good luck this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT