WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Angel Cabrera, 3‑under 69 today, birdied four of your last six holes, just a few comments on the round. 
ANGEL CABRERA:   It was a great round.   I was hoping to have a round below par today and ended up having a great round, and I really did hit it well, especially on the second nine. 

Q.   How do you like this course? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Honestly it's a course that let's me hit driver a lot and for that reason it probably fits my game well, and that's probably why I play well here. 

Q.   Any hole you don't hit driver?
ANGEL CABRERA:   Almost all of them.   Every one I can.

Q.   Given your lack of success the last few tournaments, are you surprised at all to be in this position? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   No, I'm really not.   I've been working really hard and working hard to have weeks like this, and I'm going to keep working and more weeks like this will come. 

Q.   Did you do anything between the first round and second round to try to ensure that you kept your game in the same shape? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   I think I hit it better today than I did yesterday.   Yesterday I had 24 putts.   Today I really hit it well.   I didn't change anything in between the rounds.   I think it's as a result of all the hard work I've been putting in. 

Q.   Was it a difficult bunker shot on 7, the par 5, and could you talk about the difficulty of the chip? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Getting out of the bunker wasn't that difficult because I just needed to get it out there in that area.   The chip was more complicated.   I needed to decide if I wanted to bring it up or keep it low and let it bump, so I ended up doing that. 
Yeah, it was a great shot.   That's what we wanted. 

Q.   Two wins on the PGA TOUR, both Majors, but are you excited with two rounds to go with the prospect of winning your firstregular PGA event? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, I am.   You know, honestly every time I play I try and win, and I'm of course happy to be in position to win this tournament, but every time I go out and play I'm hoping to win. 

Q.   Along those same lines, is it as astonishing to you and maybe me and some others that you have two Majors and have never won a regular TOUR event? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   I'm definitely not surprised.   It's not an easy thing to do, win two Majors.   The first one was a bit of a shock.   The second one I definitely wasn't surprised by.   But like I said earlier, I continue to work, and that's where these results come from, and I will continue to work and win other tournaments. 

Q.   Why was the first one a surprise? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Because honestly when I arrived at the U.S. Open I wasn't playing great.   My game was a little bit‑‑ I wasn't playing really pure and fine at that time. 

Q.   Do you know when you're about to play well? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   It's difficult to know exactly when you're going to play well.   I don't think anybody knows when they're going to play well. 

Q.   What was the most pleasing shot you hit today?   Gave you the most satisfaction? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   I hit a lot of great shots today.   My second shot on 3, 4, and 5 were all great shots. 

Q.   The club on the second, on No. 5? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   3‑iron. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, Angel Cabrera.   







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT