U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2007
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  RAND JERRIS: We are now joined by Angel Cabrera with a round of 71, 1-over par this afternoon, 140, even par for the championship. Perhaps you could start us off with some general comments with your thoughts on leading the U.S. Open Championship after two rounds. 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Well, of course, I had two very good rounds. At the beginning I didn't think that I was going to be here at the moment, but at this point I'm going to try to make the most of it. 

 Q.  Your birdie on the last hole knocked out a lot of players; what are your thoughts on knocking so many players out with that birdie? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, I was thinking about my game, so I wasn't thinking about who was not going to be here on the weekend. I'm sorry for all of the guys that are left out. 

 Q.  How do you feel standing over that approach shot on 18? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, that was my last big shot, so I was definitely very concentrating, trying to make the best shot possible. 

 Q.  What was the yardage and the club? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  135 yards and a sand wedge. 
 RAND JERRIS:  Could you go through your card, please. 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Bogey on the third hole. I drove, I hit the second shot over the green and then pitched back in to the green and made two putts from 30 feet. 



 I bogeyed 5.  Good tee shot, good second shot, but made 3-putts from 25, 30 feet. 
 Birdie on 9.  I hit a very good drive and sand wedge and a very short putt. 
 Bogey on 10.  I missed a tee shot and then had to lay up and go for the green on the third shot and missed the putt for par. 
 Bogey on 12, I hit my driver into the cross bunker and had to take it out from there and then laid up and approach and missed the putt for par. 
 On 13, an 8-iron, made the birdie with a putt from 24 feet. 
 16th hole, birdie, 6-iron and a birdie from 35 feet. 

 Q.  One of the players knocked out was Phil Mickelson; what will you say the next time you see him or what do you think he might say to you the next time you see him? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: I did not knock out Mickelson, Mickelson knocked out himself so I don't think I have to say anything. He shot 11-over par. 

 Q.  You've been in contention in majors before; what's the one that you felt like you had the best chance of winning to this point? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Well, I think I have a very good chance, I'm playing very well. So the tournament starts tomorrow, so I have to play well on the weekend. 

 Q.  Maybe I didn't ask it correctly.  I was saying in the past you've been on leaderboards in major championships before.  Of those, which one do you feel like you had the best chance of winning? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Well, I was leading in Augusta some years ago, and I had a very good chance then. 



 Now I think I have a good one now again. 

 Q.  You've had some good success at the U.S. Open before; to what do you credit that? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Well, I think it's a great tournament, and I play it because it's a major. 

 Q.  They say your nickname is "Pato"; where did that come from and how do you translate that? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Well, they call me "El Pato" because my father was called "Pato." That means "the duck." 

 Q.  Could you just briefly describe life growing up in Argentina, your family life, what was it like, where did you grow up?  Can you just give us some background on who you are and where you're from? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Well, I grew up in Cordoba. I started as a caddie at Cordoba Golf Club when I was ten years old, and when I turned 20, I turned pro. From then on, well, golf has been my life. 

 Q.  Do you have any brothers or sisters? 
 ANGEL CABRERA:  Yes, I have but they are not related to golf. 

 Q.  Can you tell us about the fourth hole, after your tee shot on the fourth hole, it didn't go in the ditch but you still managed to make par by going down the fifth hole.  Was that a key part of your round today making par there? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, definitely, it was a key to make a par on that hole, because I hit my worst shot over there with my tee shot. So making par there was a key for a good round. 

 Q.  How differently did you think the course played today than yesterday's round? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, definitely it was different. Playing in the afternoon made the greens harder, so the greens were definitely more difficult. 



 But I don't think that we had any wind in the afternoon.  At some point it was looking like it was going to blow, but it didn't. 

 Q.  Did your son qualify for the U.S. Public Links last year, and what kind of player is he and do you see him qualifying for the U.S. Open some day? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, he did. That will definitely depend on him. Nobody is a golf professional by chance. I think he will have to work hard to be here. 

 Q.  How many times did you hit driver today, please? 
  ANGEL CABRERA: I don't know the number exactly but any time that I thought it was possible, I tried to hit the driver because I'm very confident with this club. 



 RAND JERRIS:  Thank you very much for your time.  Good luck this weekend. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT