WGC BARBADOS WORLD CUP
December 8, 2006
Angel Cabrera
Andres Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 ANGEL CABRERA: In the last eight holes, we could do three or  four more birdies and we had the chances but they couldn't get it. 

 ANGEL CABRERA: Yeah, we are very happy. We played very solid and without  mistakes. We're very happy and we want  to keep like this. 

 ANDRES ROMERO: As Cabrera said, we missed a lot of  opportunities on the back nine. He  missed a short putt on 15, and we made 3-putts.  It was a pity, that, but it was a bogey-free round and it's okay in this  format to play like that in 4-under par. 

 Q.  Did you know for a long time that this man was going to be a very good  player? 
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, I know Andres for a long time and I know  he's going to be a great player. He's  going a good way and he will be a great, great player. 

 Q.  Were you surprised today by when you looked on the leaderboard to see  that you were ahead? 
 ANGEL CABRERA: No.  Why? (Laughter).
 ANDRES ROMERO: No, I wasn't surprised because we were  playing very solid and as we know and things were going okay. 
 So we were not surprised things are  going okay for the team. 

 ANGEL CABRERA: We are combining very well between them, and  that's one of the clues why we are playing so good. 

 Q.  Were you ever going to be anything other than a golf professional? 
 ANDRES ROMERO: When I was a kid, I had like a disease, and  golf helped me to recover from it. And  now it's a dream to be here playing professional golf and for me it's more  important to be now playing. I'm not now  thinking about that at all times, I'm just enjoying what I'm doing now in my  professional career. 

 Q.  Could you tell us what the disease was and what age? 
 ANDRES ROMERO: When I was eight years old, I had a problem  in my kidneys and I was doing a diet for seven, eight months, very strict diet,  six months without walking and staying in bed.  Then fortunately, I recovered and I'm here. 

 ANDRES ROMERO: I had already the intention of being a  professional, but being in bed those months, gave me strength to try to make  more efforts to be professionals. 

 Q.  Will this tournament, will it be a big thing in Argentina if you were to win? Not like Argentina winning the football World Cup, but  --
 ANGEL CABRERA: Yes, obviously it would be very important for  our country and it's something that I'm looking to do for many years. 
 Of course it would be great for our  country to take a World Cup. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT