THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 2006
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
STEWART McDOUGALL:  Ladies and gentlemen, Angel Cabrera, 66, and 11 under par.

Angel, give us your feelings now you're in contention for The Open Championship.
ANGEL CABRERA:  I'm in good position and I'm delighted with this.  I played well.
Q.  When was the last time you spoke to Roberto and what did he tell you?
ANGEL CABRERA:  I haven't seen him for some time because he lives in Buenos Aires and I live in Cordoba, and that's 700 kilometers apart.  So I live in one part of the country and Roberto lives in another.
Q.  Hoylake, this Royal Liverpool was such a mystery of so many players, it's been so long since we've been back, did it have any connection with the Argentines?
ANGEL CABRERA:  It is very special because, of course, the last time it was played here it was won by an Argentine.  At this moment I'm really not thinking about the history, I'm thinking about Cabrera.
Q.  What do you think about Cabrera?
ANGEL CABRERA:  That I can win the tournament.
Q.  We've heard so much about guys playing conservatively around here; I don't believe you have.  Do you still like to hit the driver here?
ANGEL CABRERA:  I played a practice round with Seve and Seve said    I said to Seve, "How do you play this golf course?"  And Seve said, "The closer you get it to the green the more chance you have," and that's the way it's played.
Q.  So you're hitting driver a lot?
ANGEL CABRERA:  Whenever I can.  I played iron off the tee on the 2nd, 4th and 8, and everywhere else I hit driver, except the par 3s.  The last nine holes all driver.
Q.  Did you like the course at first glance when you got here and have your feelings changed since you first saw it?
ANGEL CABRERA:  It's a British Open golf course, special in the sense it is difficult, complicated and can come up and bite you if you don't play well.  You have to execute the shots to be able to play this sort of golf course.
Q.  Do you enjoy playing links golf?
ANGEL CABRERA:  When I play well I like every sort of golf course.
Q.  Was there one shot this week that    a links like golf shot that you were able to successfully pull off?
ANGEL CABRERA:  No, I didn't feel anything in particular about a links golf shot.
Q.  I was wondering was there like one really cool links type of golf shot you pulled off?
ANGEL CABRERA:  Having bogeyed 14 and 16 the first two days, the second shot at 16 today was very important.  I got my revenge.
Q.  Do you remember any memories of DeVincenzo winning at Hoylake, and will that inspire you tomorrow?
ANGEL CABRERA:  I'm 35 and it's 39 years since it happened.  So I don't remember very much (laughter).
Q.  You've always played fairly well or people have thought you played well, too, at the Masters.  Of the majors which one do you think you'd have the most success at, which one is the best course for you?
ANGEL CABRERA:  They're different.  I play them both with the same intensity, but this one particularly is of special value to me.
Q.  A lot of the guys here made moves today, and you were playing with somebody else that was making a big move.  Did you feel like you were double teaming the course today playing with Mark Calcavecchia who played quite well?
ANGEL CABRERA:  This is the third round I've played with Mark Calcavecchia, because I played with him the first two.  I get on well with him.  He's easy to play with.

As a side note, Mark Calcavecchia won the Argentine Open in 1993 and 1995.
Q.  Can I return to a question that was asked before?  You may have trouble remembering 1967, but will you nevertheless take inspiration from what happened then?
ANGEL CABRERA:  Roberto is a great player, but I never saw him play competitively, so it's very difficult to take inspiration from something you haven't seen.  I'm thinking about Cabrera and Cabrera to win tomorrow.
Q.  There's another Argentinian player on the leaderboard, Romero, who is also doing well.  Do you see this is a good sign for golf in Argentina?
ANGEL CABRERA:  To have two players from one country is clearly very important for Argentina.
Q.  What score do you think that you will need tomorrow?  Obviously to play well, but what score do you think you might need to make tomorrow?
ANGEL CABRERA:  One less than the guy who comes second.  Tomorrow is    I don't know even yet how the leader will finish, so I can't really give you an assessment of that until I know what I have to do.
Q.  You play in Europe and you play in America.  Do you ever get lonely not speaking English?  Do you always find somebody to speak to in Spanish?
ANGEL CABRERA:  No, I don't.
Q.  You don't want to chat?
ANGEL CABRERA:  I don't want to be social.  I don't require the chat, I come to play golf.
Q.  Are you sociable at home?
ANGEL CABRERA:  No.  I don't even understand computers, but I think we've got chat mixed up here.

It's a family thing, when I'm free there from golf I'm happy socially chatting with my family.  But I don't want to chat in English when I'm on the golf course.
Q.  Which family is with you?
ANGEL CABRERA:  My two sons and my wife are here.
Q.  Were they at Winged Foot?
ANGEL CABRERA:  No.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT