WGC ALGARVE WORLD CUP
November 18, 2005
Angel Cabrera
Ricardo Gonzalez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MARIA ACACIA:   We have the Argentine team with us.  They have beaten a record.  62 was the previous best round in foursomes; now it's 61 by them.  Who wants to start, Angel, Ricardo?

RICARDO GONZALEZ:  We're very happy, very pleased, mainly because we have just beaten a record.  We didn't know that when we finished, and we feel very proud of it.  I feel very proud that Argentina has beaten another record in the World Cup.
MARIA ACACIA:  Angel?

ANGEL CABRERA:  I am very happy, it's been a great day.  We have played spectacular golf.  We both combined very well.  Before we teed off, I said to Ricardo, "We've got to play very well here.  I know we can do very well in the foursomes."

Of course, I knew we had a chance of getting closer to the leaders, but I never thought that we could be leading at the end of the day.  Well, there are still many players on the course, but we are up there right now, and I feel very proud to have beaten another record.
MARIA ACACIA:   Angel shot 57 with Eduardo Romero in the World Cup in Argentina in four balls in the first round, and it was another record.
Q.  Were you embarrassed by how you played yesterday?

ANGEL CABRERA:  No, no, no, of course not.  I do not feel embarrassed.  Yesterday I think we played well, and every time I play as a team representing my country, I just try the best that I can.  Things did not go our way, but of course I did not feel embarrassed yesterday.

RICARDO GONZALEZ:  We played exactly the same as we have done today, but today the ball went in and it didn't yesterday.
Q.  Was it easier to play in front of other players, going out as the first group?

RICARDO GONZALEZ:  No, it's not that much different.

ANGEL CABRERA:  The difference is not whether you play in front of or behind any other player.  The difference was just we played well and holed the putts.
Q.  How do you explain playing so much better in the foursomes today?  What is the difference?  Did anyone have a particularly better game, how do you explain?

ANGEL CABRERA:  No, I think we have combined perfectly, the both of us.  I hit very good shots; Ricardo did the same thing.  But we were hitting the ball very close today.  Yesterday I think we got a bit desperate when we saw that things didn't go our way, but that was all.
Q.  What is your opinion of the difficulty of the course compared to other courses that you play during the year?

ANGEL CABRERA:  Every golf course has it's own difficulties and you cannot compare one with the other.  We just played very well today, but this is a golf course where you can make mistakes and pay them very expensive.

Maybe the rough would be the only problem here, or the biggest problem here.  It's a bit thick.  But I think today, we did very well because we hit every fairway and we left the ball very, very close on almost every green.

RICARDO GONZALEZ:  No, as I said a few times already, it's not that big of a difference between the way we played yesterday and the way we played today.  It was just a matter of holing the putts today.  Like when we were playing the 9th and the 13th, we were trying to save par and we holed the putts.  I think that's the key that we just holed everything today.
Q.  Can you tell us how long you've known each other and what else you might have in common apart from golf?

ANGEL CABRERA:  We have known each other for a very, very long time, I think it's something like 20 years ago.  The first time we played together in the World Cup was in New Zealand in '98, and then we have been playing together very often in Argentina and on The European Tour.  We have a very good relationship.

RICARDO GONZALEZ:  I consider Angel much more than a friend, and I think that shows it when we are on the course.  We transmit that feeling, and I think that takes a lot of the pressure off.  I think he feels the same towards me.
Q.  Do you think the spectators were too noisy following the Portuguese team?

RICARDO GONZALEZ:  No.  Competing on The European Tour, you get used to people moving, people clapping hands to the locals, so we're very used to that.  Maybe they were feeling more pressure but we did not.
Q.  How well do you know Jose Filipe Lima?  We asked Lima who was the team with the best chance to win the World Cup and he said Argentina, but maybe because you are good friends and that you are very nice.

ANGEL CABRERA:  We know him we have played a few times together, and maybe we get along well because we are both Latin.
Q.  Mr. Cabrera, you had a very young caddie today; is he your son?

ANGEL CABRERA:  Yes, my son.
Q.  How old is he?

ANGEL CABRERA:  14.
Q.  And his name?

ANGEL CABRERA:  Angel.  Angel Cabrera.  (Laughter).
Q.  Is he a good golfer?

ANGEL CABRERA:  This one is a five or six handicap.  But I have an older one with scratch, 16, the other one.
Q.  Why was he caddying for you?

ANGEL CABRERA:  Some time ago he asked me if he could caddie for me at one tournament, and I thought maybe the World Cup would be the best one to do that.
Q.  Did he offer any advice?

ANGEL CABRERA:  Ricardo and I, we talk a lot and we ask each other what to do every time.  But my boy, yes, he said a few things from time to time.  I listened to him but I don't do what he says.  (Laughter).
Q.  Do I remember your sons watching you in the World Cup in Argentina when you were doing so well following you all the way?

ANGEL CABRERA:  Both.  They go with me to every World Cup.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT