MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   How excited were you to have the lead going into 18?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   It was nice.   I was 4‑under par in the first nine holes, it's the best chance that I have there.   It's pretty nice.   I played beautiful golf today, beautiful.   Only two holes I made bad mistakes.   
I hit a poor shot on 11 and then I hit a beautiful shot on the 12th.   But after that I played beautifully and it was really nice.   I'm very pleased to be 4‑under after nine holes and moving on.  
   
 Q.   Is it harder for older guys your age to win the Masters?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   It's hard for anyone.   There are a lot of young guys that can hit the ball a long ways.   I don't hit the ball that far, but I hit it and it goes straight to the flag, you know.   It's nice to see that I'm being competitive with all the guys.   
   
 Q.   Can you win this thing?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Anybody who is here can win the Tournament.   
   
 Q.   Have you had a chance to play any of the Champions Tour?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   I'm going to play one next week.   But I would love to be on the Ryder Cup, so that affects where I'm going to play.   I would be very pleased to get on the team and I need to make the effort.   I think I'm not playing bad for 50 years old though.   
   
 Q.   You seem like you're having a lot of fun out there.   
ANGEL CABRERA:   I always have a lot of fun.   I always have fun.   
   
 Q.   Do you think the younger guys have as much fun as you do?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Well, when you get older, you need to concentrate on the shots and between shots just try to be yourself, try to put a smile on your face and don't worry about everything else.   You need to smile and make the fans feel happy.   It's not only like this, you know.   
   
 Q.   You get a lot of encouragement from the fans out there, is that something that sort of you like to do?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Well, 25 years I've been around the world and it's fun.   It's very sad if you go around the world and you go like that, you know.   
   
 Q.   Is it harder physically going into the weekend?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   It's hard.   It's always hard.   It's always hard.   This one is really hard, because you need to be mentally here, mentally strong and then you need to be passionate.   That's the main thing.   
If you don't keep the passion up and you can't keep that mood all the week, you are going to have chances.   But the players are very good players, you have to respect all of them.   If you play and keep your passion and keep working on your mood, then you have a good chance.  
   
 Q.   How did the cigar help before the match when you were warming up?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Well it was nice, I smoked it to hide myself in smoke.   
   
 Q.   That actually relaxes you before you go out and play?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Um‑hum.   No, on the course, I don't smoke.   I don't want to lose my cigar out there.   There's enough worry about the game to worry about where I left my cigar.   I smoke them before and after or while practicing.   But I don't smoke them on the course.  
   
 Q.   But it does relax you beforehand?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   Well, no, I do it because I like it.   
   
 Q.   How did you celebrate 50?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   The same way I celebrated 48 and 49 and probably the same way I'm going to celebrate 51.   Just get a nice bottle of wine, nice cigar, with my family around.   You don't do anything extravagant.   Just keep enjoying what you're doing.   
   
 Q.   Are you going to the range now?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   I'm going to eat, have a cigar, and go to the range.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to have a glass of wine?  
ANGEL CABRERA:   No, after.   If I get a glass of wine now I probably won't go practice.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT