VOLVO MASTERS ANDALUCIA
November 7, 2002
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ANGEL CABRERA:   It's been a great round, fantastic round.  One of those rounds that you would dream of when you go and play a tournament.  Everything started well.  I hit good drivers and then I holed very good putts.  Everything went on very well. 
As far as my season, it's been a very good season, although it has not finished yet.  But I consider it a very good season.  I started very well.  I played very well in the USA and I got my goal, which was to get my card for next year. 
Then I had a few weeks down, but I could recover from that, and right now I am at the level that I was at the beginning of the year. 

Q.  How do you feel about your chances? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Step by step.  This is only the very first day.  I have just started.  All I have to do is keep working day by day and see if I still have a chance for the very last round. 

Q.  Did you have any thoughts of breaking the course record?
ANGEL CABRERA:   I didn't even know what was the course record, but I just wanted to finish well, as I had started. 

Q.  What do you think of 17? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   17, I thought it was a great hole.  I hit a perfect driver then a 7-iron and two putts from ten meters. 

Q.  Were you in the rough at all today? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Very few times, but always very near to the fairway.  So I haven't had any problems, really. 

Q.  How long was your drive at 17? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   183 yards from the hole, for my second shot. 

Q.  How many times did you use driver today? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Just four times. 

Q.  Is that your best round ever? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   61 last week.

Q.  Not the lowest, but best, considering the course? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, I played great golf, fantastic golf, as few times I've done. 

Q.  Don't you think now that you are playing well in the States and that you'll be playing with the greatest, you will have to improve your English?
ANGEL CABRERA:   I'm not worried at all.  Roberto De Vicenzo told me:  "If you play well, everybody will understand you.  If you don't, you've got to manage yourself."  (Laughter.)

Q.  Are you mentally prepared to win again? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Well, this is the very first day.  I have to go step by step, day by day.  This is a great tournament, but I was very lucky and I won my first tournament this year in Europe and in England, which is the birth of the game of golf.  But this is just another tournament, another week.  But every week, I go out and I try to win. 

Q.  Are you leaving Europe?  Is this your final European Tour event? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   No. 

Q.  You'll play both? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Both.

Q.  Things are very bad in your country financially, does that have any effect on your family? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, of course, it has affected me as everybody other Argentinian.  I am Argentinian and I don't like the feeling of seeing my country going through such a bad time. 

Q.  Has Tiger ever said anything to you about your driver or your long game?
ANGEL CABRERA:   Tiger talks very little on the golf course.  All he says is, "Good shot," that's it.  Nothing else. 
As far as my long game, in the States, there are many other things that you need to do well in the States, not just being a good and long hitter.  You've got to hit it long, but you've got to hit well. 

Q.  Do you like Valderrama?  Do you look forward to playing this week? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, it's a great course, like very few.  And it's a very complete golf course.  It has very good greens, very good fairways and fantastic weather.

Q.  Are you sponsored by a bank? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes. 

Q.  Do you have any running bets going this season with Eduardo Romero? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Never. 

Q.  Like who will be the first Argentinean to win a major?
ANGEL CABRERA:  All of the Argentinians, they have chances of winning a major.

Q.  How does it feel coming back to Spain and playing here? 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Coming back to Spain after having been travelling all around the world all year round, it makes us feel very well.  I feel much more comfortable.  We have the same language, very similar food, even better food, and that helps a lot. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT