MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2002
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 BILLY MORRIS:  Ladies and gentlemen, we are delighted to have Angel Cabrera with us who had a very fine 68 today.  Angel, why don't you give us some general comments, please.  And we're delighted to have David McIntosh with us who will be our translator. 

ANGEL CABRERA:   Today was a fairly even day, and in particular, my driving helped, which was good, and I managed to hole the putts which were important to hole.  So in general it was an even day, and, of course, I'm pleased with it. 
BILLY MORRIS:  Questions? 
Q.  How much from your success here last year has carried over this year? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, of course it helps.  In terms of the more you play it, the more you get to know the golf course, the more you understand it. 

I come in with a lot more confidence because of that, and particularly, because I've been playing well.
Q.  Given that you led the European Tour in driving distance last year, were you just really looking forward to getting here and seeing this new longer track that was supposed to favor the longer hitters? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, of course it helps, but this golf course is not necessarily a golf course where, "Long" is imperative.  It's really a golf course of patience and a golf course with the emphasis of placing it on with patience.
Q.  How did you bogey the 11th hole? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   I hit a very good drive which left me 170 from the fairway and I tried to overprotect the hole, playing an 8-iron, and left it right of the green and then could not make an up-and-down from there. 
Q.  Foreign players, non-American players, have done very well on the Tour this year, winning, is that the least bit surprising to you? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   It's not a surprise, because golf is going around the world.  If you look at what's happened over the past year with the South Africans particularly, with Goosen, or with Campbell, there are players of absolute quality that are winning around the world and you only have to look to my Argentine compatriot, Coceres, who won twice last year. 
Q.  Your regular caddie, I believe you are back with him, did you readjust to him, and what kind of job did Hernan (ph) for you the three weeks that he worked for you in Florida? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   My caddie had to return to Argentina for personal problems.  I started the year with him and now I'm back with him.  It wasn't Hernan (ph), it was Rudolpho last year.  He caddied last year, but he is a professional and he also wants to continue to play golf, so that was the reason for the change. 
BILLY MORRIS:  Angel, thank you very much and we wish you the very best tomorrow.  And David McIntosh, thank you for translating.




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT