BAY HILL INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY COOPER TIRES
March 14, 2002
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOHN BUSH:  Angel, congratulations on a good round today. 

Tough finish there with a couple of bogeys.  What are your general
thoughts on the entire round? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   Even though I had two bogeys on the last few
holes, I'm very happy with the way I finished off today, and it's
about time to start showing some results because I've been working
really hard for it. 
Q.  Did you feel that, because you're a long-ball hitter,
hitting as long as you do on this course, did you feel like that made
a difference considering the greens are so different, and everyone
else is trying to play from a position of not knowing these greens;
the longer you hit the ball, the better advantage you had out here
today? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   The key, even if you hit it long, is to keep the
ball in play.  Hit the fairways first and see what you can do from
then on. 
JOHN BUSH:  Can you take us through your round, the birdies and
clubs you hit? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   We started  --  we birdied the first three holes.
 Those were No. 10, 11 and 12.  Then we parred the rest of the holes
on the back nine.  Birdied No. 1, birdied No. 3, birdied the par  5,
No. 4.  We birdied the par  5 No.  6 and obviously we bogeyed 8 and 9
to finish the round. 
Q.  This is your fourth event in a row this year? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes. 
Q.  What's your plan for the rest of the year, or rest of the
next couple of weeks until the Masters? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   I'm trying to play as much as I can in the United
States and try to get my PGA TOUR card.  I'm playing next week, the
TPC and playing flying home for a week, and coming back to play
probably in Atlanta and then the Masters. 
Q.  Have you tried to get your PGA TOUR card through
exemptions, similar to Charles Howell and Matt Kuchar?

ANGEL CABRERA:   I'm trying to get it, making enough money during
these tournaments, so I don't have to go to Q-School. 
Q.  How do you balance your schedule then, because I'm sure you
will still play a certain number of European events, as well?  Are you
playing a full European schedule, too? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   I haven't started playing in Europe.  I haven't
played there yet.  But I'm planning to go there and play at least a
minimum amount of tournaments to keep my card.
Q.  How many sponsors exemptions have you used this year?


ANGEL CABRERA:   I have used two so far. 
Q.  But you've played more than two tournaments here. 

ANGEL CABRERA:   For The Match Play, I finished in the Top 5 in
Doral; so I was accepted for the next week.
Q.  Have you used any foreign exemptions or are they all
regular sponsors exemptions? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   Foreign exemptions. 
Q.  So you still have seven more regular sponsors exemptions to
use? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, I'm going to try to get as many exemptions
as I can.  I'm trying to play as many tournaments here as I can to get
enough money to get my tour card. 
Q.  The same money as No. 150 from last year?
JOHN BUSH:  Yes.
Q.  What was the key today?  You had seven birdies today.


ANGEL CABRERA:   The key was my putting, because to make seven
birdies, you have to putt good. I hit good iron shots, but today I was
I had lots of good birdie opportunities. 
Q.  Are you planning on going to Augusta before the
tournament, and do you have any thoughts about the changes there, will
it be an advantage for you or not in your favor? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   It all depends if I can play in Atlanta the week
before, if I can get an exemption for the tournament.
Q.  From what you've heard, do you think the changes there will
suit your game? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   I think that everybody who is playing has a
chance.
Q.  But you were No. 1 in driving distance in Europe last year;
right? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes. 
Q.  It might help you more.

ANGEL CABRERA:   (Smiles).
Q.  Is this week a sponsor's exemption or a foreign exemption?


ANGEL CABRERA:   Foreign exemption. 
JOHN BUSH:  Angel, congratulations on a great opening round and
good luck tomorrow. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT