MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2001
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   For me, it was a good day, to be in this position, playing under par all day.  With all of the pressure of playing the Masters and all of the pressure of playing with the greatest players of the world, it is actually a great help to finish and puts me in a good good mood for tomorrow. Birdies and bogeys  -- good drive, bunkered, out to 7 feet and holed on the first hole. Birdie on the fifth.  Driver, wedge and holed from 14 feet.  7, hit a very good drive, 2-iron, and I got down in two from 90 feet from the back of the green. 12, 9-iron from a putt from approximately 15 feet.  13  -- I hit a very good drive and a 6-iron.  I left the ball on the left-hand side of the green on the fringe and chipped out to quite close and holed, something like four feet.  14, I hit a good drive and a 6-iron, which I feel was an extremely good 6-iron but it just lacked another  -- ten yards or less it would have been perfect.  As it was, I was in the water.  My pitch went over the back of the green.  I chipped safely and got down in six and 2-putted for bogey.  
 

Q.  Just talk about being in the lead at the Masters, were you aware of it, and then with what happened at 15, how disappointing is it to lose the lead? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   These are the things that happen in golf.  You have to be prepared for them.  You get very excited and very pleased when good things happen.  At the same time, you know that possibly bad things will happen, and then you have to guard against them and make sure that you are also in control in these situations. 
 

Q.  The group that we talked about coming over yesterday to watch you play were here.  How important or positive are familiar galleries to you when you are playing so far away from you in such an important tournament? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   It's always difficult when you are playing to know actually who is in the vast crowds that are out there.  But just to know that there are people who are there supporting you, obviously, is a good feeling.  
 

Q.  Did you think at any stage of playing safe on 145? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   No.  No, I never considered it.  I had 3-wood in my hand, there's always the possibility that you think of that with a 6-iron, it didn't cross my mind.    
 

Q.  How popular is Tiger Woods in Argentina and will people know what's he is trying to achieve tomorrow, making it his fourth major in a row? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Tiger Woods' visit to Buenos Aires, he's in the World Cup obviously meant that he is well known and recognized and so now people follow what Tiger Woods does.  If he wins, they follow that, but they follow him anyway. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT