MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2001
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   It was a difficult day.  It was hard work, but the objective, finally, was not to lose the day and let ground get away from me.  I finished well, I finished with a birdie at the last hole.  I feel satisfied with the day.  I finished under par.  
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   I made a poor second shot at the fourth, in the bunker, 208 feet from the hole and didn't make it.  That was the first  -- 
 

Q.  What did you hit off the tee?
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   6-iron.  Drive, wedge and holed a putt at 33 feet.  
 

Q.  How long was the drive? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Approximately 330 yards, hole five.  Another birdie at 6.  Almost holed-in-one, with an 8-iron.  7, 2-iron, sand wedge, and about four feet from the hole. Birdie on 8.  Drive driver, 3-wood, chip from 25 yards, to five feet from the hole and I holed that.  That's four birdies in a row, and then a bogey on 9.  I hit a good drive, wedged it past the hole.  It was about 30 feet past the hole and I 3-putted it.  
 

Q.  Way up the hill and couldn't stop it? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Exactly. Hit 9-iron off the tee, to the front bunker, hit it long, left myself something like 20 feet and didn't make it.  I was on the fringe of the green. Another bogey on 13.  13, problems.  I lost a ball, hit a drive which drew too much.  Yesterday I hit 3-wood.  Today I hit drive.  Couldn't find the ball, goes back to the tee, hits driver, 6-iron, two putts.  18, on the 18th, I hit my best drive of the day, leaving 90 yards to the green, and then a lob-wedge to five feet and holed it.  
 

Q.  Talk about 16. (Inaudible)?
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yeah, the 16th I believe is probably the most difficult hole on the golf course.  It is particularly dangerous and you cannot take any chances with it.  I feel I hit a great shot there and was really happy to get out with 3, a putt from two meters, but still happy to make 3.  
 

Q.  The second tee ball on 13, ask him for a moment if he thought the same thing might happen? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   To make 4.  He went back with just the idea to make 4.  Make four with the second ball and you get out.  
 

Q.  You tipped it off the tree on the left side again.  I wonder if you thought it would happen again? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   No, I didn't think  -- it wasn't as far inside the line of the trees as the first one and I wasn't really concerned that it was going anywhere other than where it finished. 
 

Q.  How does a young fellow get started playing golf in Argentina which is not a particularly widely-known golf developer? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   I started off at ten years of age as a caddy.  My golf throughout my amateur career was played as a caddy.  I never won the Argentine National Caddies Championship which is an important event because many of the professionals have come from that event, but I won many caddy tournaments on my own and I felt I was good enough at age 20 to turn profession. 
 

Q.  This was in Buenos Aires? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   In Cordoba, which is approximately 300 miles north of Buenos Aires. 
 

Q.  There are a bunch of boys from Cordoba that play golf at a college in Alabama close to here, that are close friend to yours  -- you helped them get into the tournament as spectators last year.  I think you knows the fellows I'm talking about:  Campa (ph), Manduci (ph).  Have you had any contact with those kids this year? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yeah, they are coming tomorrow probably.  I've been in contact with them and they said they would love to come.  I said would I see if I can arrange it, so yes. 
 

Q.  And they followed you last year and stayed with you, I think? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes.  That's correct.  
 

Q.  Your arms and shoulders, was it a lot of labor as a kid or inherited from dad?  Where does your build come from? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Mostly all of my family are big, solid men.  So I just take after my family.  I haven't done anything special to build the physique.  
 

Q.  You played in the European Tour for how many years? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Six.  
 

Q.  Could you compare your play in the tournament last year to this year, why has it improved so much from one year to the next? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   There's two things.  One; that last year I came in not playing particularly well.  In fact, I was hitting the ball badly.  This. Year, I come in playing well . 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:  I come in feeling better, playing better and plus I now know the golf course, and it makes it easier to come in here and play when you know what you are going to play and are playing well. 
 

Q.  Coming from Cordoba, did you ever rubgy growing up? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Never.  
 

Q.  Any other sports? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Very little, but up until I was 15 years old, I did play futbol, like kids play.  You go out in the backyard and you play.  I didn't play for a team.  I didn't take soccer seriously. 
 

Q.  Do all Argentine golfers learn the story of De Vincenzo at Augusta growing up and do you know him well? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Everybody in Argentina knows the story of El Maestro, which is what Roberto was known as, and I've had the fortune to know him well, to be in contact with him on many occasions and also to receive help and advice on occasions.  
 

Q.  How nervous do you think you are going to be, being on top of the leaderboard going into the weekend? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   If you ask me tomorrow, I'll let you know.  
 

Q.  How much confidence did you get from performing so well with Eduardo in the World Cup against Tiger and Duval? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, that helped, because just to be near Tiger and to play with Tiger, against Tiger, and to be competitive with Tiger, is something very important.  You learn from it.  I was under extra pressure because I was playing in Argentina, playing for Argentina against Tiger.  So so have done well, yes, was a great confidence booster.  
 

Q.  Can you talk about Eduardo's influence on your career? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Yes, the Big Cat is a very important person, influence in my life, not only economically, did he help me, but moralemente, which is like spiritually in golf.  He's helped me in every way possible and why I'm sitting here is I'm in considerable debt to Eduardo Romero for being here.  
 

Q.  Everybody knows the story about Eduardo Romero and is he is called "The Cat".  Our friend on my right is called "The Duck,"  can you explain why you are known as "The Duck"?
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   My father was nicknamed Duck and they just passed it onto his son.  So I suppose I'm Duck II.  
 

Q.  Have you ever played in Japan? 
 
ANGEL CABRERA:   Never.  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT