MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2001
Angel Cabrera
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANGEL CABRERA:   Well, what he wants to mention is that he was able to hit the ball pretty good.  His tee shots were in very good position.  His approach shots were close to the hole and he was able to get advantage of that. 

ANGEL CABRERA:   First hole had a very good tee shot, then I played a sand wedge and 2-putted.  On the second hole, I went into the bunker and then I hit my second shot to the green and 2-putted. On the third hole, I had a very good tee shot.  My second shot was three feet from the cup and birdied.  On my fourth hole, I hit a 5-iron to the green and I left about a 20-footer and was  -- birdied the hole.  On the fifth hole, I had a good tee shot, second shot to the green and about 30 feet putted for par  .On the sixth hole, I used a 7-iron.  I left the ball three feet from the cup and birdied the hole.  On the seventh hole, I hit a 2-iron, second shot to the green and 2-putted from 18 feet.  On the eighth hole, drive, then I hit a second shot with a 3-wood and used -- pitched it up from the approach to five feet and made that.  On the ninth hole, driver and a wedge to 25 feet from the hole and 2-putted for a par.  13, 3-wood and then had a good second shot.  It was not a very good lie, but made a good approach and pitched up to five feet and putted for birdie.  15, on the 15th, hit a driver, 7-iron and then 2-putted from 45 feet for birdie.


Q.  (Inaudible.)

ANGEL CABRERA:   After Buenos Aries, I am playing good golf.  I have a good perspective for this tournament.  I hope to try to win it.


Q.  Because you are a long hitter, does this course suit you well? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   Of course, being a good hitter, second shots, the approach to green are short clubs that will give me more opportunity for birdies. 


Q.  What sport did you play before you took up golf at age 15? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   Before, when I was young, I used to play football, but I started trying to be a caddy and I devoted my life to golf.


Q.  You were 15 when you took up the game? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   At ten years old, I started as a caddy, and then I was  -- I turned pro at 20. 


Q.  Did you hit one good shot?

ANGEL CABRERA:   I hit lots of good shots; I cannot see the best one. 


Q.  You have been in contention a number of times, but recently won a tournament.  Is there any change in the confidence, any change in the psychological approach to being in contention? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   One of the things, I turned my way of thinking, because sometimes I got mad and one hole I lost my opportunity to win, so I changed all the way around.  Now, I calmed down; I think a little more and will do it.


Q.  What's more important, winning here at the Masters or in Argentina? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   Everything is important to me, because I am a good contender. 


Q.  Was there a particular time or an incident which made you change from being angry and aggressive occasionally on the golf course, to more calm? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   I was losing too much money. 


Q.  What are your expectations for Augusta? 

ANGEL CABRERA:   The question is if I thought I would have a very low round in Augusta, and I think every time I have a hope to have a very good round, but, I hope it's not  -- it won't be my best round.  I think I might get one better. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT