WGC EMC WORLD CUP
December 10, 2000
Angel Cabrera
Eduardo Romero
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








EDUARDO ROMERO:   Well, we played really well.  We wanted to win.   That's what we wanted to do. But being second with the big players that came is a good position anyway. 

Q.  Before we started the tournament, you said that success was only a first position, and the second or third would be failure.  How would you consider this now?

ANGEL CABRERA:  As Eduardo said I don't really feel as a failure, because we have worked hard and tried hard.  And a second position is really good, and we have worked hard for this.

EDUARDO ROMERO:   Yes, after that eagle, that tremendous eagle, we did; we thought we had a chance.  We were really close to the American team.  But I think the mistake was the 14th hole.  I think that hole was where it was defined. 

ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, as El Gato says, in that par 5 where we could not make the birdie, we lost our chance.  And after the 9th hole, I really feel that we had an opportunity to win. 

Q.  First of all, I want to congratulate you on a great championship, and I would like to know, how do you feel about the pressure of the public, if that favored you, or if that played against you?  

ANGEL CABRERA:  Well, as regards myself, I don't pay much attention to what goes on outside.  I am concentrating on my game.  And the only thing I felt from the public was encouragement.  I always feel that they were encouraging me.  And they behaved really well throughout the whole tournament.  The only little problem was the first day, but then everything was fine. 

EDUARDO ROMERO:   I think the galleries were extraordinary.  It is really hard to control 25,000 people, so I think that the work of the marshals and the work of the public was really good.  I think that they need congratulations. 

Q.  You bogeyed the 13th hole; you hit it with a driver.  Can you explain how that influenced your decision? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:   Well, on the 13th hole, I really thought it was time to attack the course and to go for it, and I really hit it very hard; but, unluckily, it went into the water.  And I don't think that was the bogey that made us lose the championship, but the bogey on the next hole. 

Q.  Okay, this is the end of a really busy schedule for both of you.  We would like to know if you finish here or if you're going to play next week?

EDUARDO ROMERO:   No, we have to play in Llao -Llao.

ANGEL CABRERA:  Yes, I am playing, too. 

Q.  Would you have liked to play with the American team?  Do you think they were benefitted by not playing with you and feeling the pressure? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:   No, we had to play really well, whether we played with the United States or not.  We had to play our best game.  I don't know if playing with them would have made things different.  I don't think so. 

ANGEL CABRERA:  No, I am of the same opinion.  I don't think that playing with the United States or New Zealand would have changed anything.  I don't think that made any changes in the result.

Q.  Two decades ago, Argentina had two great players, Roberto De Vicenzo, and Vicente Fernandez.  And now Argentina is again with very good players and having very good players to play the Dunhill Cup.  How do you see the future of Argentine golf? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:   I think Argentina is in a very good time right now and has a great future as regards golf.  That's because there are many very young, good players trying to make their way in Europe, and that is reflected in the results.  There are lots of players that are doing a very good performance in Europe, and that is a reflection on Argentina.

Q.  The World Cup has come, it is finished, but with very good results for Argentina.  So the question is, now what can we do to help golf grow in Argentina? 

EDUARDO ROMERO:   I think that that question should go to the Argentine Association of Golf and the PGA of Argentina, because we have given everything that we have to give, and we made the best that we could do. 

EDUARDO ROMERO:   Thanks very much.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT