WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2021
Erik Van Rooyen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Erik, long day, kind of crazy day.  How would you assess how everything went in the end for you?
 ERIK VAN ROOYEN:   It obviously went really well (laughing).
 After losing my first match to Daniel I knew I had a bit of a mountain to climb.  Things worked out great yesterday with me beating Harris and then Brendon beating Daniel because that opened everything up for today.  Just really excited to be here for the weekend.
 Q. Take us through the playoff and what kind of transpired there.
 ERIK VAN ROOYEN:   Well, first of all, obviously massive birdie chance -- we both got lob wedge in there.  I had like 58 to the hole, and I even hit it past his ball, so I gave him a bit of a read.
 With Daniel being such a good putter I really thought he was going to make it.  But then on 2, with how far right he hit it, I knew he had a mile in and I smashed a good one down there.  Obviously advantage Erik, so really happy to come out with the win.
 Q. What does a day like today do for your confidence heading into tomorrow?
 ERIK VAN ROOYEN:   I think the confidence will just kind of stay where it is.  It's relatively high always.  I'm happy to be playing well.  I haven't sort of gotten off to the best of starts here on the PGA TOUR this year, so I guess it's a good time to play well, now more than ever.
 Q. A couple questions on match play stuff; when you're giving a putt, what's your philosophy on giving putts in match play?
 ERIK VAN ROOYEN:   No real philosophy.  I guess it depends on the status of the match, what hole we're on.  I mean, I hit it probably inside two feet on the first hole this morning and Brendon didn't give me the putt.  And he doesn't have to; I don't care.  There's no rule that says you have to give the guy putts.
 I don't know, I'll just kind of assess it as it comes.
 Q. When you're being given a putt, do you want to hear confirmation?  If it's a six-inch putt do you want to hear confirmation?
 ERIK VAN ROOYEN:   Well, yeah, we saw what happened with Sergio and Kuch a couple years ago where Kuch never gave him the putt and Serge just picked it up.
 So I think it's important for the guy to actually say, hey, it's good, pick it up.  Yeah, I'm not going to assume anything.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT