WGC MEXICO CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2020
Erik Van Rooyen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was the comfort level today playing in your final group, and then going into tomorrow you'll be in the last group, as well?  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: Yeah, some nerves, which is to be expected. But I think if I wasn't nervous, there would probably be something wrong. It's why we play the game, to be in that position, so I enjoy it.   
 Q.  What did you do for your birthday other than shoot a record round?  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: We just went out to dinner last night. I had a few sips of my wife's margarita and a couple tacos, that was it.   
 Q.  What do you expect for tomorrow?  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: For tomorrow? Birdies. Hopefully no bogeys. I'm playing really well, so I'm in a good frame of mind. So yeah, I'll do my thing, and if I play well, I'm sure it'll be good enough.   
 Q.  Is this your first time in the last group on the PGA TOUR?  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: Yes.   
 Q.  What do you feel about the Mexican crowd?  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: Great. Today was fantastic. There were obviously a lot of cheers for the group ahead of us, guys like Rory and J.T., that are fan favorites. I don't know who I'm playing with tomorrow. I think I'm final group again tomorrow, so J.T. will be there. I don't know who's -- Patrick, as well?   
 Q.  Yes.  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: Yeah, so hopefully we can create a bit of fun tomorrow for the people.   
 Q.  I'm sure you've been in the final group on the European Tour.  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: Sure.   
 Q.  When was the last time, do you remember?  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: Probably when I won in Sweden, yeah.   
 Q.  Anything you can take from that into tomorrow?  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: That my game is really good, and if I play well, I can win anywhere.   
 Q.  Do you like this type of role where you're the underdog?  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: Yeah, I certainly am compared to some of the resumes of some of the other people I'm playing with. But I think -- I don't know. You've just got to go play golf, man. You can't overthink this kind of stuff. At the end of the day, there's 18 holes in front of you, and you've got to navigate it the best you can. I can't control what Justin Thomas does. He's a phenomenal player. I can't control what Patrick Reed does or the guys behind us. Jon Rahm just went out and shot 61 today. Who's to say one of us is going to win. All I know is I'm going to focus on myself and do my thing.   
 Q.  Talking about your round, he broke your record today. Do you mind that?  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: I don't mind it. I'm happy that I'm still ahead of him, but again, good for him. That's a phenomenal round of golf at this place. It's a tricky golf course, so hats off.   
 Q.  Do you expect also to see 62s tomorrow and maybe a 61, as well?  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: Myself?   
 Q.  Yeah.  
 ERIK van ROOYEN: I expect to go perform my task really well. Again, there's going to be a little bit of nerves, and if I can control that and stay in my bubble, I'll be all right.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT