ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 13, 2019
Erik Van Rooyen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A slowish start to your round, 1-over through five.  How pleased to finish the day at 4-under, 67?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Very pleased.  Took some patience.  I've got off to hot starts the last few days, so yeah, just had to relax and stay patient and know that there's 18 holes to play.
Q. Weisberger was going like a train, put it out to 18-under par after nine holes.  Did that give you something to aim at?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Yeah, I thought 20-under would be a good score.  Did he finish on 20?  Yeah, he obviously did it but I got to 18, which is fine.  There's 18 holes to go and he's playing well and I'm playing well, so we'll see.
Q. You have quite a lot of experience contending on The European Tour and you've won twice on The Challenge Tour.  How much can you use those experiences and try and draw on them to win on the main tour?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Yeah, of course, I've got a lot of experience now.  18 holes to go, there's a lot of guys that can still play well.  We've seen some low scores these three days, 61s, 62s, you name it.  Bernd and I are both playing well but there's a lot of guys who can still do it.  Tomorrow I'll go hit one shot at a time and make as many birdies as I can.
Q. Are you happy to be in the final group, is that something you were looking to get into on the final day?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: That's why we play golf, to be in the final group, so I love it.
Q. Very, very solid round of golf.  You look like you're enjoying it out there and seems to be working for you?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Yeah, I'm very much enjoying it.  One or two things went my way today and loving this golf course, so yeah, all smiles.
Q. In the final group again tomorrow.  It worked quite well for you today, but how does the mindset change in the final day?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: It doesn't change.  You know, we're trying to birdie every hole.  That's what we have the game plan for.  So we'll just go execute tomorrow.
Q. What do you draw on in terms of experiences?  Obviously a couple of wins previously on other tours.  But Scottish Open, Rolex Series, on the eve of an Open Championship, is this one slightly more butterflies?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: I don't know, I'll see when I wake up.  There's always butterflies to contend with and that's a good thing.  We play to be in this position and we crave those butterflies, so I'm looking forward to it.
Q. How has this weekend been in terms of a buildup to next week?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Yeah, it's been good.  I played Portrush a few weeks ago.  This course has got a links feel to it.  It's not quite as linksy, but it's nice to get links prep under the belt heading into next week.
Q. How pleased were you to recover your start after a slow and steady beginning?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Yeah, very pleased.  It's never great, going 1-over after a few holes, but that's golf, and I don't care where you make a bogey, you're going to make some here or there; so whether it's the first few holes or last few holes.  But I guess I threw in the birdies after that and very pleased.
Q. Can you talk us through the ones on 15 and 17?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Yeah, 17 was a little unexpected.  Really tricky pin I thought to get to right on the front edge, and everything sort of slopes away from the pin.  You know, 20 feet past the hole is sort of where we were going to be, and to roll in that putt was great.  Alex, my caddie, it was the first putt he read for me all week and got it spot on, so that's cool.
15, yeah, just flushed a pitching wedge straight at the hole downwind.  Pretty easy number for us and, yeah, just go straight at it.
Q. Two shots off the lead now in the final group.  How can you sum this up?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: It's been fantastic.  You know, final group is where you want to be.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT