ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2019
Erik Van Rooyen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You're really starting to appear on a lot of leaderboards.  How would you describe your confidence level now?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: I think it's only building.  I had a good season last year, and I feel like we're just building upon that.  A couple good finishes this year, as well, and it's just fun to play back-to-back good rounds.
Q. You're from South Africa, attended University of Minnesota.  What was that experience like for you in terms of your growth of your golfer?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: It was great for me in terms of being a golfer.  It was a bit of a shock going there as a student just because it was so cold, but I loved it.  I met my wife there.  The team, we travelled south a lot, Florida, California, all over, so we still got to play in the sun, so it was okay.
Yeah, I really enjoyed my four years there.
Q. I remember speaking to Trevor Immelman last year and he waived for you as a player and a person.  What's it like to follow in the footsteps of such a great legacy of South African golf?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: It's an honour, really.  You go back to guys like Bobby Locke, Gary Player, Ernie -- Ernie being my era, of course, and I've gotten close with Trevor the last few years and bounce a few ideas off of him.  He's obviously accomplished a lot, as well.  It's nice to have guys like that around.
Q. Another great round of 64.  How difficult and how satisfying is it to be able to do that again today?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: It felt easy today, and it felt easy yesterday.  So when you're playing well, it just comes naturally.  And when you don't -- I missed the cut last week, and kind of feels hard.  It's great to go back-to-back 7-under.
Q. One of those great moments watching was your putt on 5, when you started to join the leaders.  How did that feel?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Good.  I wasn't really aware of that.  I saw the scoreboard.  I guess I played the front nine second.  I saw Slatts was playing really well, and I saw my name out there.  It's obviously always good to be in that position.
Q. To keep calm and cool about it, is that your tactic when you're out there playing, just to keep your eye on the ball, really?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Yeah, that's all you can do, right.  There's two more rounds left.  I'd rather have this thing on Sunday to be honest.  We'll just keep doing what we're doing.
Q. What would a win here at The Scottish Open mean for you?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: It would be great.  It would be huge.  I love links golf.  This is obviously the Home of Golf, Scotland.  So yeah, it will be wonderful to get my first win here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT