THE 147TH OPEN
July 20, 2018
Erik Van Rooyen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So how would you sum up your day following yesterday with even-par round today?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Two completely different days.  Yesterday things were sort of just flowing really nicely, hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens.  The ones I missed were sort of on the fringe.  As you know, with links golf, you can still putt.
Today was a little bit more of a grind, missed a few more fairways, had to sort of battle and stay in my own bubble, and I think I did that.
Q. About 18, were you worried there at all?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Not worried.  It just was completely accidental, and we just weren't sure if the coin moved, and if it moved, then you have to just replace it back.  So we tried to find out if anybody perhaps saw it on a camera or something like that.  Then at the end, the ruling was just no one saw it.  Just keep going.
Q. You just dropped your ball on the coin?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: I dropped my putter.  I was standing over the coin looking at the hole, trying to get a feel, and it just slipped up in my hand.
Q. That's a little unnerving.  How do you go back and putt?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: It was.  I wanted to sort of get going and get this ten-footer to save par on 18, but I think having maybe just a couple minutes to calm me down, and actually got a little bit of a different read when I sat down and looked at it again.  Yeah, it went in.  Good putt.  So happy to finish that way.
Q. How much different did the golf course play today than yesterday with a little bit more moisture?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: A little bit more moisture.  It was tricky with all the rain gear on and off early on, and the ball skidded a little more on the greens, especially on the front nine.  So you had to be aware of that coming in for your second shot.  But for the rest yesterday morning, it was way more quiet with regards to the wind.  A little more wind today, but it's expected out here.
Q. How did you manage the mental side, once you kind of saw that your game wasn't quite the same as yesterday?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: I don't know.  I stayed fairly calm.  I think I missed it in decent spots.  If I think about 10, for example, with the pin being back right.  We had a great angle going into it.  The ball just popped right off the face a little bit.  It was okay.  I just think you have to get on, get in play off the tee.  Otherwise, it's going to be a really tough course.
Q. Did you get less roll in the fairways because of moisture?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: A little bit, yeah.  A little bit.  I was actually looking at the coverage this morning at some of the guys teeing off 1, and I saw they got about 10 yards of roll yesterday, closer to 20.  So definitely played a role.
Q. What's your goal going into tomorrow?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Make birdies.
Q. I'm curious, how much have you paid attention to the Presidents Cup over the years?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Well, obviously, being South African, it's the one we want to play.  You can't play a Ryder Cup.  And it's definitely one I'd like to see the inernationals win.  And I know it's the end of next year, so we've sort of set that as a little bit of a goal end of next season.  Right now we're training in a good direction.  My hopes are that will just continue.
Q. What was your thoughts on the change in the qualification?  They don't start kind of the current ranking --
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: I was no idea when they start or what they do.
Q. They don't start until like August now.
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Of this year?
Q. Yeah.
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: That's fine.  Obviously, Ernie is going to want to pick the best team.  So guys that are playing well closer to the time.  So I don't mind that they changed it to August.  It's fine.  Was it earlier before?
Q. Yeah, it was a two-year period.
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: No, I think that's fine, yeah.
Q. Even if you get a top five here and don't get any points for it, you'll be okay with it?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: No, that's fine.  I know next season I'm going to have a top five somewhere as well or get a win.  So my goal is just to have it be closer to that time and get on the team.
Q. When you see you especially the other younger South Africans up on the leaderboard, do you feel like there's a chance to have a growing younger crowd, kind of almost like the Americans to some degree?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Yeah, obviously, the Americans have a lot of good young players at the moment.  South Africa for some reason is a breeding ground for good golfers.  We've got a good tour, and I think it's time for the next generation of guys who step up and play well.
We've all looked up to Ernie and Retief and what they've done -- Gary is a little bit before my time.  But Sean and Louis went on to win majors, and I feel like one of those guys have the capability to do so, like Brandon or Zander or whatever.
Q. Are you surprised it's been so lopsided in the Presidents Cup?
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Man, the Americans are good.  You look at the top ten in the world and the top 20, and there's a lot of them in there.  I'm not surprised.  I'm hoping we can give it a run in 2019.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT