ITALIAN OPEN
June 1, 2018
Erik Van Rooyen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How do you feel about your performance over the first couple of days?  
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: It's no secret.  It's all around pretty solid.  Driving it well, hitting a ton of greens.  I think I hit 17 yesterday and just rolling really good.   
 Q.  The course was softer yesterday afternoon and you were out in those conditions.  How was it different to what you faced yesterday?  
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Yesterday, especially this back nine -- well, today, was a lot more windy.  I didn't hit as many fairways, which then this course can be quite tricky, if you keep it in play it's pretty simple, but you hear the wind picking up this afternoon, so it will be interesting.   
 Q.  When you look at your performance, it's not a surprise.  Been a good year so far, how are you finding it on Tour?  How much did The Challenge Tour help you to find your feet for your first full season?  
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Up until then I had played the Sunshine Tour and made the transition last year to The Challenge Tour and learnt a lot, how to play four rounds under par and get yourself into contention and then win.   
I ended up winning at the end of the season and I feel like I'm bringing that form into this year.  I'm calm and I feel like I'm handling it pretty good.   
 Q.  This is a Rolex Series Event, and you've seen what it's like on Tour now.  Do they feel different, these ones?  
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: They do.  Crowds are bigger.  Course design, it's in supreme condition and it's a lot of fun.   
 Q.  A 68 today, no dropped shots, was there more patience involved today?  
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: I've been pretty patient both days.  I think yesterday, I hit a few really good long irons into the par 5.   
S.  Today I didn't drive it quite as well, and if you can drive it well on the par 5s, you can definitely take advantage.  I think 7 played downwind.  The guys I played with had like a 7-iron in and I missed the fairway and you've got to chop out.  If you can drive it well, you'll score.   
 Q.  How much different were the conditions today as to when you finished off yesterday afternoon?  
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: The start was similar.  There's no wind had we started this morning but it's picking up quite a bit now.  I reckon it's about a club and a half, almost two clubs out there, so it's quite tricky.   
 Q.  Rolex Series Event, nicely placed at the moment going into the weekend so you can sit back now and hopefully the wind picks up again and the scores don't catch you up too much?  
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: Right, be halfway.  There's still 36 holes to go.  It's just great to be in that position at this point.   
 Q.  Obviously Challenge Tour last year coming into these big events.  Is it a case of sort of almost living the dream, if you like, now that you're on The European Tour?  
ERIK VAN ROOYEN: It is living the dream and I told my wife last week, playing Wentworth, that this is why we play the game.  It was unbelievable, and same this week.  You've almost got to pinch yourself.  It's nice to have weeks like this and to also be playing well.  It's really cool.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT