NBA DRAFT
June 24, 2010
Derrick Favors
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  No. 3 Selection, New Jersey Nets

 Q. Feelings right now? 
 DERRICK FAVORS: Feeling very excited, a lot of things going through my head and ready to get started.

 Q. New Jersey has a lot of talent and new leadership, how are you looking forward to playing and the possibilities? 
 DERRICK FAVORS: They have got a good, young team. They are good and I think I can fit in well and I think I can learn a lot from Lopez and playing alongside of him will be easy for me and I can sit back and learn and do what I do best which is play defense and rebound. 

 Q. Inaudible. 
 DERRICK FAVORS: Just work hard and try to help them improve. I know the owners and coaches want to go in a new direction so I just want to come in and work hard and help them improve.

 Q. Are you willing to guarantee playoffs your first year on the team? 
 DERRICK FAVORS: I don't know (laughing). Going to wait and see, I'm not going to say things, so just got to wait and see. 

 Q. Did you have any idea before David Stern called your name that you were going to be the Nets pick? 
 DERRICK FAVORS: I didn't know I was going to the Nets. I pretty much knew John was going to go 1 and Evan was going 2, but I had no idea I was going to the Nets, and when they called me, I was just excited.

 Q. What do you know about Avery Johnson and what's it going to be like playing for him? 
 DERRICK FAVORS: He's a great coach. He's coached with the Mavericks and led them to an NBA Finals, so I think it will be a great opportunity for me to grow as a player, to play in front of him. 

 Q. Defensively, Avery Johnson has heavy emphasis on defense; how do you think you'll be able to fit in that system? 
 DERRICK FAVORS: You know, one of the strongest parts of my game is playing defense, so I think he can help me become a better defender with the way that he coaches and he can really push me and make me the player that they think I'm going to be. 

 Q. How did your one-on-one work outs with Cousins go and who got the best of who in those? 
 DERRICK FAVORS: It went well, DeMarcus is a good player and we are both competitive players and it went well. You really couldn't tell who won the matchup because we were just going back and forth on each other so pretty much a tie. 

 Q. Brook Lopez has been using the high and low post and whichever one he is not occupying is the one you will play; do you prefer?
 DERRICK FAVORS: I can play the high post, I can play the low post, so I prefer both.

 Q. Have you met your new owner yet? And do you know about him? 
 DERRICK FAVORS: No, I haven't met him yet, but I've heard he's a guy that's ready to turn around the program and lead them to a championship within a few years. 
 So I'm just happy to be a part of it. 

 Q. How do you characterize yourself as far as your weaknesses and your strengths and what do you know about the Nets? 
 DERRICK FAVORS: When I seen them last year, they wasn't a bad team. They was just a young team. They just had a young inexperienced team and now being they are hungry to improve from last year and try to make the playoffs this year.

 Q. We talked in Chicago and you were very overwhelmed by the process and now that the Draft is over, there's finality. What do you expect in the next three or four months? 
 DERRICK FAVORS: Just be a lot of hard work. I know they are going to bring me in for training camp and Summer League and it's just going to be playing basketball now, since the Draft is over, there's no more media stuff, no more work outs, no more tryouts, just all basketball stuff. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT