AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: BLUE JAYS VS INDIANS
October 16, 2016
Marcus Stroman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Gibby was in here before talking about how much you seem to enjoy these kind of pressure starts.  Wondering where does this come from?
MARCUS STROMAN: I don't know.  I think that's why you play the game.  I think that's why you get up at 6 a.m. to work out, that's why you do two a days, to be in this moment, to be in this time.  It just excites me, walking out there in front of the home crowd, hearing them, just kind of gives me a lot more enthusiasm and confidence kind of going into it.
Q. Your offense obviously wasn't the Blue Jays offense in Cleveland.  What do you think coming back here could mean to some of those guys who struggled for a couple of games?
MARCUS STROMAN: Not really worried about it, to be honest with you.  I think that's baseball, sometimes you go in spurts.  Our offense is amazing, it's been amazing all year.  I count on every single one of those guys to pick me up.  And I have the confidence in them to go out there and score runs, regardless of what the previous two games were.  I don't think that's a pre-showing of what's going to happen tomorrow.  I think our guys have that mentality and confidence to kind of put the games in the past behind them and move forward and kind of take that mentality into each and every game.
Q. Your numbers really started to improve after the last time you faced Cleveland.  Was there something about that game that really clicked for you, something in July 1st?
MARCUS STROMAN: I don't think necessarily that game.  I think it was just a combination of a bunch of work that myself and my coaches and teammates around me just put into it, changed my delivery, changed my mechanics slightly, focusing on certain things.  I felt like I did a pretty good job of making that adjustment midyear.  And ever since I made that adjustment I felt extremely strong.  I feel great.  I feel strong.  I said it multiple times.  I feel just as strong now as I did all year, and I can't wait to get out there.
Q. Did you have some sort of players only meeting today?
MARCUS STROMAN: We didn't.
Q. You didn't?
MARCUS STROMAN: No.
Q. Could you talk what it's like to pitch on 13 days rest, how does that change your mindset?  Does it change your mindset, is there any difference for you?
MARCUS STROMAN: Doesn't change my mindset at all.  It's the playoffs.  I think that kind of takes care of itself.  I'll be locked in regardless of how many days it is in between starts.  I feel like I have a very good routine, and I'm able to prepare my body to throw on how many days rest, regardless.  I don't think it's going to be a factor at all, nor is it an excuse.  I feel just as good as if it was my normal five days, so I'll be ready to go.
Q. Given the closeness of the two games in Cleveland, it doesn't feel like you guys are down in the series.  What's your take on that, and how does it compare to the deficits you had last year in the series in regards to the mood of the team?
MARCUS STROMAN: Yeah, the mood of the team it's pretty much the same.  The mentality and confidence, we probably have had the same mentality we had Opening Day today.  It hasn't changed once.  It's hard to tell whether we have a win or loss the next day in this clubhouse.  We truly turn the page.  We know what we're capable of.  It's an extremely confident, unique different group we have.  We love it.  I love every single guy on this team.  It's a true family.  That's how we approach each and every game.  We play for each other, and that's kind of the mentality we have.
Q. How about the feeling now compared to after two games in Kansas City last year?
MARCUS STROMAN: We went down -- last year, you said?
Q. Yeah.
MARCUS STROMAN: Yeah, I don't think it's changed.  I think it's the same.  I'd be the one to tell you, honestly, I know it sounds cliché, but you couldn't tell whether they were up two or down two when we went to Kansas City or Texas last year.  That's the mentality of this group.  It's unique, it's rare, and that's kinds of how we handle it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT