BRIDGEPOINT EDUCATION HOLIDAY BOWL: WASHINGTON v NEBRASKA
December 30, 2010
Bo Pelini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: Questions for coach. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COACH PELINI: You name it. We didn't play well. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COACH PELINI: No. I mean, I'm not following you. We were moving the football in the first series. Obviously it was something that crept up all year, another turnover. 
 That's hurt us all year. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COACH PELINI: I thought they were. Like I say, I'm embarrassed. I obviously didn't get them ready to play. I thought we were ready to play. I liked our plan. We didn't execute very well. We obviously didn't play our best football. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COACH PELINI: That was a joke, ma'am. He wasn't calling a play. He probably could have. Might have called a few better plays than we did. 

 Q. How is Martinez? 
 COACH PELINI: He'll be fine.

 Q. Could he have come back in? 
 COACH PELINI: Probably not. 

 Q. What happened on the decision on the safety, on the holding penalty? 
 COACH PELINI: I'm not following you. 

 Q. The safety that they called. 
 COACH PELINI: If they call holding and it's in the end zone, it's a safety. 

 Q. Did you agree with that? You argued with the officials. 
 COACH PELINI: Did I agree with the holding call? 

 Q. The decision by the officials to call the safety. 
 COACH PELINI: That isn't what I was talking to them about. I was talking about something else. I wasn't arguing about that. 

 Q. What was their explanation that they gave you? 
 COACH PELINI: The hold was in the end zone is what they called, which is a safety. But that isn't what I was talking to them about. 

 Q. Why did Taylor struggle tonight?
 COACH PELINI: Didn't play well. We didn't play around him. We didn't play well front to back. It was just a ridiculous performance. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COACH PELINI: To start the game? 

 Q. No, when Taylor was struggling. 
 COACH PELINI: Everybody wants to focus on the quarterback. Our struggles went way beyond the quarterback. 

 Q. You said before the game would be decided in the trenches. 
 COACH PELINI: I thought they played better than us up front. That's the bottom line. I don't know what we ran the ball for, but it wasn't what we should have run the ball for. 

 Q. What were your struggles on defense? 
 COACH PELINI: Tackling I thought was sloppy. But, you know, we didn't play horrible defensively. Just one of those games. We just couldn't get over the hump. 
 That first drive of the second half, I put that on me. I made a bad call on third down. We didn't execute well on the touchdown from Locker. I put that drive on me. The other drive was 20 yards, you know. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COACH PELINI: Well, you know, we had our back against the wall. We had to make stops. They were able to play a little differently because we weren't able to put the ball in the end zone and do anything offensively. That plays a lot into it, the way the game was going. 

 Q. Where does this loss put things for you guys going into the off-season? 
 COACH PELINI: What do you mean, where does it put us? 10-4. Go into the off-season and get ready for next year. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COACH PELINI: I thought we were lousy up front. We played lousy up front. We didn't protect him well. He created some of those situations. I thought he maybe should have hung in the pocket a little bit more on a couple occasions. 
 But we didn't protect him well enough. We didn't adjust to some things. We had some technique errors. Give them credit. I give Washington credit. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COACH PELINI: This won't affect us. This won't affect the off-season one bit. I mean, it doesn't change what you do, what you have to get done. It will be a new team next year, new challenges. This won't have any effect on it. 

 Q. Do you want Shawn back as your offensive coordinator next year? 
 COACH PELINI: I evaluate everybody across the board. I mean, that's kind of a crazy question. I expect everybody to be back, yes. 

 Q. Do you want him back? 
 COACH PELINI: I just said I expect everybody will be back. 

 Q. You handled these guys easily earlier on in the season. 
 COACH PELINI: I said earlier it doesn't matter what happens earlier in the season. We didn't play well. They played well; we didn't. Pretty simple. That's the way the game is played. Teams that make plays are going to win. 
 September had nothing to do with it. 

 Q. You mentioned the turnover early. 
 COACH PELINI: That hurt us. I thought that was a big point in the game. I thought we were driving. I thought we had some momentum. We couldn't finish the drive. They got momentum. We just didn't make plays. Bottom line, we didn't execute consistently. What that happens, you're not going to win a football game. 
 We didn't play well. We didn't play at our standard. 

 Q. Were you pleased with the preparation leading up to this game? 
 COACH PELINI: Uh-huh. I felt really good about our preparation. 

 Q. What is your general takeaway from this season? 
 COACH PELINI: We won 10. I wish we would have won 14. We didn't reach our goal. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 COACH PELINI: He didn't have to do anything through the air. You know, I thought we covered well down the field. Our rush lanes hurt us at times, missed tackles. I thought he scrambled well. He's a good football player. He's a good athlete. 
 Thanks, guys. Appreciate it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT