DIVISION I FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP: YOUNGSTOWN STATE VS JAMES MADISON
December 29, 2016
Bo Pelini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Coach, can you just give us an opening statement, just talk about how preparations are going and what this means to your university, your team, and what you look forward to in your trip to Frisco.   
COACH PELINI: Yeah, we began preparation a couple days ago as a team after the holidays.  You know, we know we're going to be -- we have a lot of respect for our opponent.  We think obviously James Madison is an excellent football team, very well-coached football team we have a lot of respect for, and we know we're going to have our work cut out for us.   
We are looking forward to it.  I'm happy for our kids.  I really congratulate James Madison, as well.  It's a long haul to get here and a lot of hard work went into getting here.  So just looking forward to going there and playing a good football team, and we're looking forward to the challenge.   
 Q.  What do you make of this layoff, and have you tried to gain any insight from other guys who have been in this kind of game two or three weeks after your last one, to get some tips on how to handle it?  
COACH PELINI: Well, I coached -- I've been in a number of Bowl games and I've dealt with layoffs before.   
There's two things involved:  No. 1 is to give your team a chance to rest.  We had a long haul.  We had played 12 straight weeks without a break.  Chose to give our team some time off.   
But at the end of the day, you know, there's probably no perfect formula, but what's worked for me is to give them a little bit of time off, get back together and to kind of get into business as usual.  That's what we've done.  The layoff is what it is.   
I mean, I think it came at a good time for us because like I said, we played 12 straight weeks.  So I think our kids needed a break and it gave them a chance to go home and be with their family for the holidays, which obviously is very important.   
 Q.  I was kind of wondering if you've seen just in terms of an offense, an offense as balanced as James Madison is, kind of what the approach there is to defending an offense that has a running back like Abdullah and good receivers on the outside and a quarterback that can both run and pass?  
COACH PELINI: They are obviously a really good football team and a good offense, and like you say, they are balanced.  They can hurt you in a number of different ways.  They spread the field on you and they have a lot of talent.  You know, so you've got to be disciplined.  You've got to execute very well what your plan is.   
It's about, not as much -- I don't worry as much about what the other opponents are doing, as far as make them have to beat you.  You have to execute what you're trying to do, and play your game plan out and get your blueprint and make sure you do well.  You know, make sure you execute what you're trying to do well.   
 Q.  Do they remind you of anybody that you've played this year, or even anybody that you've played in your past?  
COACH PELINI: Well, I mean, I played a lot of good football teams.  So they are like any other good football team:  They are very well-coached.  They have good players.  They execute at a high level.  They play the game the right way.   
I think their coaches do a really good job and the kids play hard and physical and they have all the signs of what you look for when you talk about a good football team.   
 Q.  I talked to you the last time you were in the Big Ten and now you've moved on to Youngstown State.  Just talk about James Madison, when you used to be in the Big Ten, what team does James Madison remind you of?  
COACH PELINI: Oh, I don't know.  I don't think they quite remind me of anybody.  I think they are unique unto themselves a little bit.  Like I said, they are really well-coached.  They play hard.  They play the right way.  They are balanced.  They do a lot of good things, and both offensively and defensively, and I think they are a very well balanced team.   
I don't think you get to this point in the year, get to this game, unless you are; unless you do things the right way.  I think they do that and I think that's why they will be lining up playing for a National Championship.   
 Q.  Was there a point during the season that you realized you had a special team going?  
COACH PELINI: I just think our kids, they play hard every time out.  The key was, I talked to them a couple points in the year where it just, it's not where you start; it's where you finish.  And we needed to get better every week.  I think we've done that.  I think our kids compete the right way.   
You know, so you give yourself an opportunity.  That's all we were looking for is an opportunity to get to this game and see what happens.  You know, you had to earn it.  We earned our way here and I think that was a fun thing.  I give our kids a lot of credit.   
 Q.  Following up on a question you were just answering, I think you were 6-3 after the loss to North Dakota State in November, what they shown you in the run since then and surviving a double-overtime playoff game?  
COACH PELINI: I think we have a lot of character on our football team, for one.  You know, I said after that game, and I believed it, and it was -- there was a lot more out there for our team.  I thought we needed to make some adjustments in a couple of areas that I thought got exposed in the game.   
And we've gone through a lot in the season together.  You talk about a number of different quarterbacks, and we've faced down some adversity and been able to kind of overcome it.  That's a testament to the character of our kids, and believing in himself what we were doing and continuing to get better as the season went on.   
I've always said, I've coached in the NFL for nine years, and you know, a big part of the deal is getting better each week, and bringing your lunch pail and going to work every day and practicing the right way, so you kind of earn the right to play well on Saturday, and I think we've done that.  We've gotten better as the season's gone on.   
I think it's a good thing.  We play in a tough conference.  You're not going to go through it unscathed.  You get stressed every week.   
 Q.  And maybe at the beginning of the season, or beginning of the playoffs, I don't know if people would have penned this as a match up for the Championship Game.  What does it say about the competitive nature of these two teams to get to this point?  
COACH PELINI: Like you said, you have to earn -- one thing about this tournament is you've got to earn your way there.  Everybody has their shot.  You've got to make the plays when it counts, and I think both teams have shown the ability to do that, and it's a testament to the kids on both sides.  You've got to have character and you've got to have a work ethic.  There's a lot of things that go into it.   
 Q.  I was cold just watching your last game on TV.  
COACH PELINI: I hear you.  It was cold.   
 Q.  You've been talking about some of the characteristics of your team.  What characteristic gets overlooked about your team?  
COACH PELINI: Really I think it's a talented football team and they are good kids.  I think we're pretty well balanced.  The key is is we've gotten better as the season's gone on.   
One thing about our team, like I said, we've had a number of guys have had to step up, and you know, it hasn't been easy.  There's been some adversity.  There was some up times.  It's a long season.  Everyone stayed the course and I think that we've overcome a lot.   
You've seen that offensively, defensively, special teams, everybody has contributed.  It's been a true team effort to get where we are.   
 Q.  With that adversity, has the last few weeks, is it easier now to move ahead without the suspended players than when it first happened when it was a blow that everybody wasn't expecting?  
COACH PELINI: I don't worry about things that I can't control.  I mean, that's kind of been our nature as a team.  It's just it is what it is.  Things happen, for whatever reason.  You have to be prepared to move on and it's been next-guy up, because we've been in that situation a few times in a number of different areas for different reasons obviously, and so it's not like we haven't been there before.  It's just time for guys -- different guys had to step up.   
 Q.  The two teams that are coming from what's considered the top two FCS conferences, what is similar about the style of play in both conferences, and what is different in the style of play with each conference?  
COACH PELINI: I don't know about style of play.  I just know that they are both good conferences.  They are deep and there's good coaching that goes on in both conferences.  They play solid football where you've got to be prepared to play each and every week.  I think when that happens, and you go through that type of schedule, you get better as the year goes on.  I think you've seen that happen with both these football teams.   
 Q.  You mentioned having to make the play at the right time in the playoffs.  Obviously that winning touchdown pass you guys had will live on in history.  I know you didn't get a good chance to see it on the sidelines; the first time you actually got a chance to see the video replays, what did you think of that play?  
COACH PELINI: It was a heck of a catch.  It was a big-time play, a good throw.  Kind of threw it every place he could have.  I was just kind of wondering why they didn't throw a pass interference flag.   
It was a great play, fun, exciting for the kid, and you know, like I said, people have got to step up and make plays.  He had his opportunity and he made a play.   
 Q.  I've heard of back shoulders, but I think that was a back throw.  When you took the Youngstown State job, obviously it had had great success under Coach Tressel a year or so before.  Was that one of the reasons why this job was appealing; the fact that it could be done there and there was some history as far as being successful?  
COACH PELINI: Yeah, I have confidence that I could have success wherever I go.  I think that's one thing I've proven is that I've been able to win football games and know how to do things the right way.   
But at the end of the day, it was the right thing for myself and my family.  That was the No. 1 reason why I made the decision to come back here to Youngstown State and knowing Youngstown and the area.  Really, that's had a big impact on my life, and I believe I've had a lot of opportunities because of the background I've had and growing up here and all the things that have gone along with it.  And so there was kind of a unique opportunity to come back here and give back a little bit.   
 Q.  What's your relationship now with President Tressel?  What's it like having a boss who has won championships at both FCS and FBS levels?  
COACH PELINI: We've always had a good relationship, but at the end of the day, it was -- he's got bigger fish to fry.  He's got a lot of things on his plate.  We don't talk a lot of football but he's been very supportive, and I'll bend his ear every now and then on certain things, especially as it applied to the playoff run and that type of thing.   
But like I said, he's a great guy to work with, work for and he's been very supportive.   
 Q.  I've got a good sense of how your season has gone, and as you are at this point of the season, going in to play a game in January, what do you feel most confident and comfortable about, about your Youngstown State team as you have gone through this year?  
COACH PELINI: Well, I think you develop confidence -- confidence comes with success.   
I think we've gotten better.  Especially over the last month, month and a half, whatever it may be.  But you know, one thing, our kids prepare the right way and that's where it starts.  They bring it to the able every day.  They work hard and that gives you an opportunity to have success.   
I always say, you don't know how it's going to go on Saturday.  You don't know how a game is going to go, but if you at least prepare the right way and you have the right type of commitment, it gives you a chance.  That's all you're looking for.   
Like I said, if somebody goes out and beats you, you pat them on the back and you congratulate them.  But you don't want to beat yourself, and for the most part, we haven't done that.   
We've found a way to win football games, and that's a testament to our kids and how they prepare.   
 Q.  Are you satisfied with the pace that you have instilled in the culture there, the successful culture at Youngstown State?  And that's certainly giving due respect to its past history.  
COACH PELINI: Yeah, I believe deeply in building a culture and having a culture of accountability, of hard work, of how you go about your business.  I think our kids have learned.  I don't think we're exactly where I want to be yet.  I think that's always a work-in-progress, but it's moving in the right direction.   
That's something you've got to work hard at each and every day, building your program.  I think that we've done that well.  But believe me, there's still tons of areas that we have to improve in.   
 Q.  Characterizing your defense, you're stingy with the run and you've forced 29 punts from your opponents.  Talk about the defensive style of the ball and how you would characterize the guys that play over there for you?  
COACH PELINI: They play hard, they play the right way, and obviously we play a different system than when -- than before we got here, so that took some time for them to kind of understand where we're coming from and how we go about our business and how we do what we do.   
I think that their commitment's been good.  They play hard.  We've gotten better in a lot of areas.  There are a lot of areas we need to improve?   
 Q.  The second and fourth quarters are your most explosive.  Is that a matter of making adjustments as the game flows?  Is that what's led to the out pouring of point production there?  
COACH PELINI: I don't know.  I think our kids, one thing, we're in good shape.  I think we've always been pretty strong in the fourth quarter.  I think our resiliency is pretty good.  We've had guys step up and make plays when it's counted, when the time comes.   
That's a testament to a number of things, but I think part of it is their resolve and their want to, and like I said, how they go about their business.   
 Q.  And lastly, when you look at film of JMU, do you see similarities to your team?  
COACH PELINI: Well, I mean, I don't know if like -- you know, there are some similarities in a number of things that they do and what we do.   
Like I said earlier, I believe it comes down to -- they execute at a high level.  I don't know, they are not out trying to trick you or anything else.  They are a fundamentally well-coached football team.  That's what I always have respect for.  They are not trying to trick you or anything else.   
They have their innovation like anybody else, but their coaching staff does an outstanding job and their kids play fundamentally sound.  To beat them, you have to beat them, because for the most part, they are not going to beat themselves.   
 Q.  Continuing with the defense, how do you prepare to go up against a guy like Bryan Schor?  
COACH PELINI: It's a matter of execution on our part.  We'll have our plan, and you know, you can't control what he's going to do.  You control what you've got, what you have to do and try to make it as hard on him as you possibly can and have respect for who he is as a player and execute the a high level.   
You have to plan on him, that he's going to play a good football game.  The guy is a good player.  You've got to do what you do and do it well.  That's kind of our motto.   
 Q.  You faced a couple of different styles of play in this post-season.  How does facing these different styles and different teams help in a playoff game?  
COACH PELINI: Well, like you say, you see a variety.  We saw a variety.  We're going to see some more this week, and you have to be prepared to execute at a very high level; and knowing that they are probably going to do that themselves.  They are going to play well.   
Regardless of who we've played against, we've had to make some adapt -- adapt to some different offenses and defenses, and in this long haul we've gone through, our kids have responded pretty well.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask about Hunter Wells.  What areas have you seen growth in his game?  
COACH PELINI: I think he's a lot more comfortable in the pocket.  I think he's really made some strides there as far as really sitting in there and making some difficult throws and some difficult -- he's played at a high level.  And I think we've got better around him.   
I always say, best thing for a quarterback is to play well around him.  He can't do it by himself.  I think we've gotten better offensively, especially over the last month or so, and I think that's helped Hunter.  He's obviously done his part very well.   
 Q.  Being from the area of Youngstown State, what does it mean to you to be one win away from bringing a title back to the area?  
COACH PELINI: That's why I came back, one of the reasons why I came back.  But you know, I've always said, it's not about me.  It's about these kids.  Hopefully you know, they have earned the right to play for a title.  Hopefully they will come out and play well and I'm just proud of what they have accomplished.   
 Q.  You go way back obviously with Avery Moss.  Kind of wondering what your first meeting was like with that guy, and what's it like to be on five years later, going to a national title game with him?  
COACH PELINI: Well, Avery has been through a lot.  We've been through a lot together.  You know, the first time I saw Avery play was playing high school basketball.  I didn't even know much, anything about him.   
Went and saw, was recruiting a kid and went to his basketball game and saw Avery playing basketball.  That was my first exposure to him.  Kind of started recruiting him ever since.  He's a great kid.  I've watched him really grow personally, which to me, that's the most important part.   
I always look at it as our job is to help young men prepare for their life after college, and I know that Avery has come a long way and he's going to be successful in whatever he does, and hopefully -- I anticipate he'll have a chance to play on Sunday.   
 Q.  To have that duo, you've been in the NFL and you've coached power five football, I know you've been asked a couple times about how this season stacks up and how the opponent stacks up, but how does that duo at defensive end stack up to what you've seen?  
COACH PELINI: Well, they are both good players and they are great kids.  They play hard and they work hard.  That to me is what it's all about, is seeing hard work pay off for these kids, and the commitment they have had, the leadership they have shown and the growth they have brought.  That's been fun to watch.   
 Q.  JMU comes in with a pretty big offensive front.  Where do they rank as far as the largest and most athletic fronts you've faced this season?  
COACH PELINI: Well, I don't know about size.  I know they do a really good job.  It's obvious they are extremely well-coached, and fundamentally they do a really good job.   
As far as size, I'm not sure.  But it's a lot more than that.  It's more about how you play than how big you are.  We've seen some big fronts and not necessarily all of them were real good.  These guys, they are big.  They play the right way and they are really fundamental.  Starts with technique and fundamentals, and they have that.  They have obviously taken well to the coaching.   
 Q.  Coming off a game against the high-flying Eastern Washington offense, how much does preparation your change for a physical running game?  
COACH PELINI: We don't change how we prepare.  It's a different, maybe some different emphases here or there.  But you know, at the end of the day, like I said, we'll have our plan and we know, you know, we're going to have our work cut out for us.  They are really good.  Their running back's really good.  Their quarterback's good.  They are well-coached.  They have a good offensive line and they are a balanced football team.   
I was saying to somebody earlier today, you don't get to this point of the year, and you're not going to play anybody -- they are capable of in all areas.  They are very well-schooled.  They play hard.  They play the right way.  You know, so I think it will be a good football game.   
 Q.  Special teams has been huge all season.  What have you seen particularly out of Davis?  
COACH PELINI: He's pretty good.  I mean, he's a weapon.  They have good schemes.  They block well for him.   
I've seen I think three different guys or so have had returns for touchdowns.  So I mean, obviously they are well schooled in that area, and so you know, like I said, we've got to be prepared to match their effort, their intensity and their level of execution, because they are going to stress you.   
 Q.  You've been in the playoffs or the post-season in FCS, FBS and NFL level.  Do you think one of those does it better?  Is there a preference in the way seasons end?  
COACH PELINI: Well, one thing about this is this is kind of more like the NFL probably more than anything else.  You know, it's a long haul; you've got to earn it.  You know, you're not going to be given anything.  It's kind of the way it should be.  I mean, you've got to go out each week and earn your way to the next one.  That's what I told our guys when this all started.  It's going to -- we didn't get a bye, so it was going to take five.   
You know, we're at four, and so one thing; you get through this, like I said, you have to have guys -- the teams that are here deserve to be here because they earned it.   
 Q.  I covered the Big 12 extensively, your time at Nebraska, the way it ended.  Were you angry, hacked off, that you obviously had success every season, but I guess they decided it just wasn't enough?  
COACH PELINI: You know, things happen for a reason, and I think that at the time, you know, I don't really think much about it at this point.  You know, at the end of the day, people make their decisions and you move on, for whatever reason.  So you just, you know, I don't concern myself, certain things are out of your control.  I've always been that way.  I don't let it really affect me.  It's just, you know, people have jobs to do and they make their decisions and you move on.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks for taking your time with us today.  We wish you the best of luck and we'll see you in Frisco next week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT