CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2018
Zheng Saisai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. STEPHENS/Zheng Saisai   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Could you talk about the match.  How would you evaluate your performance?  What was the difference between you and her?  What is something you should work on?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Well, in general I think I wasn't playing very well.  I felt she played really fast in the previous meetings, but today with more spin, she played slower.  I had many unforced errors.  It was really hard to control the ball.  I was hesitating.  I was trying to adapt to the pace.   
In the second set, I was trying to adapt to change.  At the very beginning I had opportunities.  I broke her serve.  There was a great opportunity I could hold my serve with the lead 2-Love, however it was only a couple of points, and I lost that opportunity.   
We started rallies from the baseline.  I never thought I had the upper-hand advantage against her.  I would need more time to adapt to playing against her.   
 Q.  In March this year you came back from injury.  Your ranking is actually very close to your career high.  Could you talk about your season this year, trying to raise your level in the upcoming off-season, what would you work on?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Well, after coming back, I see many improvements.  I've gained experience from so many tournaments.  I'm trying to raise my game each tournament.   
It is a pity I've only being playing for six months and now it's off-season.  Well, there are several tournaments left.  I will try to focus, raise my level, in the off-season try much better.   
 Q.  The Youth Olympics is coming up.  You had good results eight years ago.  When looking back over eight years ago, what did you learn?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Well, the first Youth Olympics was a very important memory in my career.  At the time all those players are actually top 20 or 50 now.  Back then in the junior years, there was fierce competition between us.  That was my first time to compete for China.  I was very excited.   
In the junior years I didn't play very well, but in the Youth Olympics I did something really great beyond my usual the capabilities.  I felt the pride competing for my country.  I felt the honor competing for the country.   
I hope in upcoming junior Olympics, the players can also do very well.   
 Q.  You talked about the Youth Olympics.  Be it men or women players, we see good results in singles and doubles in the junior events, champions in the junior Grand Slam events.  When they turn pro, they face different challenges.  You also experienced that.  From your perspective, what was the biggest obstacle after turning pro, especially physical conditions?  At this level do you see a great difference between Chinese players and other players from other countries?  
ZHENG SAISAI: I mean, Chinese players mostly play in the Asian swing, Asian tournaments.  After turning pro, they have to go around the world and you have to overcome jetlag, different food.  These are very important elements that you have to consider.  You have to adapt to those conditions.  As you grow older, you adapt to those conditions, you gain experience.   
At the very beginning there are obstacles.  It won't be smooth sailing because most events are happening in Europe or America.  It won't be in Asia.   
 Q.  You didn't really compete in doubles that much after coming back from injury.  Do you plan to be playing more doubles?  I think your highest ranking was 15 in doubles.  Do you have any specific plan for doubles?  
ZHENG SAISAI: I don't see any correlation between that and doubles because I see good results in singles.  I could not spare any time for attention to doubles.  From now on, I would hope I can play more doubles.  However, I don't see a higher ranking for doubles.   
Many big tournaments like in Beijing and Wuhan, I did not have the opportunity to get in without a wild card.  That is why I am planning to start from smaller events.   
Also the ranking of the singles can actually help you get into the matches of doubles.  That is something we can work on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT