HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 25, 2019
Zheng Saisai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
P. MARTIC/ZHENG SAISAI   
6-4, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English first.   
 Q.  Were you aware of how many games you needed to win today and how nervous were you on the court during the match?  
ZHENG SAISAI: You know, this is the first time I have this experience. Actually, I knew if I win a set, I for sure would be in, but I don't know exactly how many games.   
So I was pretty like tight because I knew I don't need to win the match, so I was like scared a little bit. It's really the first time the feeling how I played, it's very nervous.   
So after it got 4-4 I knew if I win one more game then I, it is my serve, so I have big chance to qualify, so I start to be so tight and I think I missed like three easy mistakes.   
So I was a little mad because I couldn't stop thinking about this, it's just like really, it's a normal match, it's not a normal match, you know, I want to play, okay, just to play like, whatever, but I was a little bit over thinking.   
And the second set, I'm not sure how many games actually, I'm not sure, I was just playing, okay, that's how I can do, I just, it doesn't matter like how many games I can win, just going to play. Yeah, I was happy though.   
 Q.  So when you went to the net to shake hands did you think you were out of the tournament?  
ZHENG SAISAI: I'm not sure who got in, because I saw we have the same game, you know, I don't know, I lost also 4-3 and which yesterday also Martic loss 4-3, so I'm not sure.   
But she was pretty sure, she said, Okay, congratulations, and I was like, Oh, okay, that's great. (Laughing).   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  It's been a special game, a special match because you don't have to win, so how did you prepare for this match beforehand? And what is the plan with the coach?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Actually, the coach didn't know how many games we need to win, we only know that one set is going to be enough. So we, I had a break for two points during the match. I think we delivered the tactics very well, but, again, I cannot focus on the game, because I've been over thinking the number of the games I need to have. So I made a lot of easy mistakes, but eventually I'm happy to be able to just qualify for the next semi-final.   
 Q.  In the second set you are ahead of a game by 2-1 and actually you only need then, then you need to only win one game. And Martic called in her coach and then she won another three games. And then it is your game for service game and then you also asked your coach to come down to the field. So what has he said to you?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Actually, we still don't know how we only need one more game to win, so I called him in because I wasn't focused again. I just wanted to relax by talking to him. And in the final game, I'm behind 15-40, so it's very risky for me at the game and eventually I luckily won that service game.   
 Q.  So I notice that you've been talking about Martic after the match for a long time and she came back after shaking hands. So what have you been talking about?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Yes, Martic is very clear about the result, because she said clearly, Congratulations on first time. And it looks like she's more experienced, and for me it's the first time to experience this kind of a situation, and I guess I will be more prepared in the next time.   
 Q.  Tomorrow you're going to have a semi-final in the afternoon and have you, do you know who is the opponent? It's been confirmed now the opponent is Bertens, the game will start at 3 p.m., so the question is, how are you going to adjust yourself to prepare for the semi-final?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Well I think I will, after the press conference, I will get some physio and go home and sleep as soon as possible and forget about today, because tomorrow is going to be a brand new day and I'm going to be playing with the first seed player and there's nothing for me to lose.   
 Q.  Now you've been playing in Zhuhai, a tournament twice as wildcard holder and so what is the difference between this time and the last, because we know last time you didn't make it out of the group.  
ZHENG SAISAI: It's been a fantastic journey for me. Four years ago I just started my WTA journey and it's on arising path. I learned a lot by playing with Venus Williams and Madison Keys and I learned how to play with those powerful players, because I know I knew I have a lot of weaknesses at the time and there are many things for me to learn.   
For the past few years there are ups and downs, I experienced some injuries, and this time I did pretty well, the first match is a solid win and today I also kind of passed the test. So it's been an acknowledgment of my effort for the past four years.   
So nothing happens overnight, I believe in making progress step by step, believing in solid training and try to build up my abilities bit by bit and to eventually overcome all the challenges. So I'm very happy today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT