HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 21, 2019
Zheng Saisai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Let's begin. Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  Asking about how you feel about coming back to Zhuhai and then what's your comments on the other two players in your team. Since we got the draw result.  
ZHENG SAISAI: Actually I've been here in 2015 and in Zhuhai, and this is the first time after 2015 and I played ITF in the middle. And I like the environment in the city and the court is also good in terms of the speed and it feels comfortable hitting the ball on the court. I feel happy to be back here and I was given the wildcard because I think the organizer is acknowledging what I have performed for the entire year.   
Speaking of the draw and the team players, they're all strong and I felt that yesterday I'm going to have, end up in the same team as Keys, because we had an activity yesterday and we also played in 2015 here. She's a very good player in terms of aggression and I think we need to, I need to change my tactics over playing with Keys, in terms of giving more angles and heights for her to play.   
And the other player, Martic, I haven't met them in singles, maybe in doubles. She's very tall and she's also very dynamic on the court and there's no easy match.   
 Q.  Asking about the injury that you got in the China Open, is that the same location and how do you feel now?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Yes, that's the game, at the end of game one I hurt myself in serving and the next match was too close and that made things worse. And I've been treating myself afterwards and it feels okay now.   
 Q.  Asking about the personal feelings for yourself because, since we last saw you here in 2015, I can see now you're more professional and competent. So in your opinion what is your changes since 2015?  
ZHENG SAISAI: I've been through a lot after 2015 and the game in Zhuhai in 2015 was the first session here and at the time I was just up on the journey as a professional player.   
And I have come a long way. My performance is much better than before in 2015, but I've been through a lot of things like injuries and surgeries and so I feel a lot in this journey. And I'm a person that tends to forget the happy things, so I always feel I'm happy, but coming back here I still can remember those injuries and surgeries and the poor performances.   
However, those are the experiences that's going to help me to grow and be stronger.   
 Q.  So we know that you got a title this year and that's a very great breakthrough in your career. Now you're playing most of the Top-20 players in Zhuhai and what has changed in your competence, because you're now playing much stronger opponents and does that make any mentality changes to yourself?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Yes, in San Jose I actually played three players who are also going to be here and that definitely gives me confidence and the most importantly I've been improving myself along the way.   
No one is an easy player, so every match is going to be a tough match and it's really depending upon how you put it out on the court and that will make the difference as far as a win or a loss. So I'm looking forward to all the challenges.   
 Q.  What is the arrangement after Zhuhai and including what is your thoughts on the training going forward?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Well, I haven't made up any concrete plan, so, and this game is actually a temporary, a short notice game for me, so I think I will consider how to arrange the break, season break and the training afterwards.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT