CHINA OPEN
October 2, 2019
Zheng Saisai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/Zheng Saisai   
6-3, 7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  We saw the trainers come over and examine you a few times during the match. What pain were you experiencing? Did that affect your game at all?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Yeah, I felt it the first set, end of the first set. I served just one serve and I felt my, like, on the side. I don't know what you say, what muscle is it. Anyway, it's when I serve, I couldn't, like, serve fast. I cannot use my abdominal.   
It's actually got better after injure. I didn't serve too fast, so I make more first-serve percentage for the second set, which is affect like how I play. I start to rally with her, running more. Doesn't give her too much second serves to let her control the point, which is actually a better way to serve.   
But it's just unfortunate I couldn't control so well. I just can hope to make the first serve in, which is little bit, like, annoy myself, yes.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  When you were preparing for this match, you talked about executing your strategies and plans. Are you happy with how you executed your strategy? Did you feel you improved compared to Wimbledon?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Overall, I thought I played well. She served really well today. In her service games, there were only two or three games I had breakpoints. Other than that she served well four or five times, and it was really hard for me to return.   
I think one of her downsides is her backhand. I wanted to attack more of her backhand to change it to her forehand. That was my strategy.   
The strategy was okay and I was getting into my game in the second set. Once I would get into those rallies, I felt I could hold some advantage to some extent. We were holding serves and it went to a tiebreak in the second set.   
In the third set, the turning point, it was 2-1, I had two double-faults in my service game. That was when I lost several points in a row. When it went to her service games, she served really well. That was a turning point in the match. I lost focus. Due to my injury, I could not spin my serve, and that had some impact on my game.   
 Q.  Some players might say when they get a good win, it is really hard to focus on the next round. You had a big win last night on the national day. How did you adjust to focus on the bigger challenge today?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Yes, indeed, it was a big win yesterday. I was feeling really happy. It's a premier mandatory event. Whenever you get a win, you know you're facing bigger challenges.   
Today I was facing her. I knew it was going to be a tough game. She will never give you that many opportunities, that many chances at breakpoints. It will be your ability to get two games in a row. But that's really difficult.   
Overall I'm satisfied with my performance. It wasn't ideal, but I was able to make it through those challenges and stay calm, overcome the obstacles.   
It was a tough win in the second set. At the beginning of the third set it was a bit of a struggle between us. I think my opponent, from her serves, her forehand, I see good advantages from these parts.   
In previous matches I felt that she gave me some freebies on some key points. She wouldn't lose those key points today. She's a very resolute player, which is something I shall learn from her, to be decisive, to put away other thoughts and focus on the game.   
 Q.  For this season in singles and doubles, you've had good results. You have a title from San Jose, also good results in doubles. Next year will you continue with the schedule? Considering your health, would you make some adjustments?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Next year I will put more focus on singles. I'll be playing big tournaments in doubles. I will actually make the decision based on my health. When I have to play both singles and doubles, that will have an impact on my physical ability in the singles.   
Once I can improve my stamina, I hope I can play singles and doubles, but singles will be my priority.   
 Q.  On the live coverage, you did not shake hands with the umpire.  
ZHENG SAISAI: Did I not shake hands?   
 Q.  From the live coverage, I didn't see it. I want to double-check.  
ZHENG SAISAI: Actually, I shake hands with the umpire.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT