CHINA OPEN
October 1, 2019
Zheng Saisai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
ZHENG SAISAI/S. Stephens   
6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  What do you think you did well in today's match?  
ZHENG SAISAI: I served pretty good today for the first serve, the angles. I was serving okay today. Gave her little bit pressure. Not like last two match, I didn't actually serve well. I always start second serve, so she start to move me first. This is different compared to last two match.   
I change little bit strategy to play against her because my coach tell me last two match what I did not so good. I was able to turn it around today. I was happy I can execute good.   
 Q.  Tomorrow you're scheduled to play the No. 1 ranked woman in the world. How do you prepare for a match like that, what is your mentality going into it?  
ZHENG SAISAI: For sure is going to be a tough match. She's No. 1 now. I really like her game. Big serve, all-court player. She can slice, volley, serve and volley. It's going to be tough.   
I will talk to my coach to get some strategy and plan. Hopefully I can play well, like, compete with her, yeah.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese.   
 Q.  After the US Open I heard you were not feeling well physically. You withdrew from Wuhan. How are you feeling now?  
ZHENG SAISAI: Well, I was feeling tired at that part of the season. I was forced to withdraw from Wuhan regretfully.   
Days after my last match, I stayed in my room for three days, didn't move, didn't go out for meals. I was resting a bit. That was very helpful for the match in the China Open. I was able to move better, so it was a good decision to best a little bit.   
Now physically I'm feeling good. I will be fresh for the match tomorrow. I will do my best to fight against the world No. 1 tomorrow.   
 Q.  It was the same opponent, the second round last year. What kind of strategy did you take to win this match?  
ZHENG SAISAI: I played her in Madrid this year. I won the first set, then lost two sets in a row.   
Well, I'm playing better. I learned a lesson from last year, from previous matches, mentally speaking. It's the national day. I'm sure you have all watched the military parade this morning. When I was practicing this afternoon, I felt a lot of pressure. I really didn't want to lose on this special day.   
The first game of the match, I felt the balls were really flying very fast. Then I slowly got into my game and was able to execute my plan for today. I hope to continue like this.   
 Q.  You played Barty in Wimbledon. You said she is a tough opponent for everyone in the field. What would you learn from the match? What kind of changes would you make compared to the match at Wimbledon?  
ZHENG SAISAI: I'm not in a position to disclose my plans now because she would know (laughter).   
I would learn from previous matches. Last meeting I need some things to improve on. I need to improve on some parts. I need good methods, strategy, as well as good serves. Then I would have the chance to fight against her.   
 Q.  After the match you ran to your coach, celebrated together. Did you talk to your coach? Today is a national day, so you are presenting a gift. How are you going to celebrate?  
ZHENG SAISAI: This is the best national day ever, with a victory, my first time into the third round of the China Open. I didn't play a good game in the first round, not really good performance in the doubles yesterday. I felt a lot of pressure. Well, I felt like I had nothing to lose today. I did not want to regret my performance on such a special day.   
My mom was here in the stands. It was a gift to my motherland as well as my mom.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT