THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2012
David Merriman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How good a round is that? 
DAVID MERRIMAN:   That's excellent for me.   I was very pleased when I got out there today and I saw a couple of those twos.   During the practise rounds, it was playing brutal.   For average hitters, they play very, very long.   I haven't seen the card, but I wouldn't be surprised if it was about the same length as The Open last week. 
I'm very pleased with my round.   I played really solid during the practise rounds, and I played almost identical to that.   So I'm very happy and I holed some good putts when I putted but kept my score going.   I hit some good shots, hit some bad shots, but when I hit a bad shot I holed a good putt, so I'm very happy.

Q.   So seeing Turnberry at its nicest? 
DAVID MERRIMAN:   Is it always like this?   (Laughing).   We've been really lucky this week considering the weather they have had the last couple of months.   You've got to take the opportunity when it comes, and I'm very pleased with this Sydney weather‑‑ I mean, Turnberry weather.   (Laughing). 
If it stays like this all right, we'll be absolutely rocked. 

Q.   Hard to focus or hard to gauge what kind of score will lead at the end of the day but you'll be nicely in the mix, won't you? 
DAVID MERRIMAN:   I wouldn't be surprised, considering the tees are a little forward today and the weather is probably as good as you're going to get; I wouldn't be surprised to see maybe a 3‑ or a 5‑under today, which would have surprised me after the practise rounds. 
I thought anything under par each day would have been an excellent score.   But you know, with the conditions and the golf course, and the greens are perfect, so they are not difficult to read.   And if you hit one on, they stay there.
So I wouldn't be surprised if 4‑ or 5‑under is leading by the end of the day.

Q.   Any idea of how this fits into how you've been playing across the season? 
DAVID MERRIMAN:   I've been playing‑‑ I haven't scored really well but I've been playing really well and I keep saying to the missus, you know, I'm playing good, but just can't put a score there.   I said, I feel my time is going to come where the score will happen, and so I did.   Very pleased. 

Q.   Presumably you know Turnberry and its reputation?
DAVID MERRIMAN:   Yeah, it's one of the places to be, no doubt.   No doubt.   

Q.   I did read up on you coming from Sydney and moving over for The European Tour for the first time, and it was a big step, wasn't it? 
DAVID MERRIMAN:   It was a big step to give away the club job and to go to the Qualifying School.   And the wife came over with me the first four years and we just absolutely had a ball.   We loved it.   Absolutely loved it. 

Q.   Still loving it? 
DAVID MERRIMAN:   Yes, well, when you play well, you love it even more, don't you. 

Q.   And the trick shots still going well?
DAVID MERRIMAN:   I did a couple yesterday actually, that that was‑‑ I love doing a few trick shots.   I probably did one on the 18th today when I was up against that lip.   I still do a few of those. 

Q.   Talk me through that, on the lip. 
DAVID MERRIMAN:   I hit a good drive but just pulled it a little bit and it just run up against the lip on the left‑hand side, and it wasn't actually in the bunker but it was up against the lip and I had to sort of stand with the ball about a foot behind the stance and try to flip my hands to get the ball elevated to get it down the fairway, and it almost come off, so it was good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT