NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 23, 2016
Nicholas Lindheim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Right now you're at 6-under, leading the tournament, I'm wondering your thoughts after 36 holes.
NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: Good stuff.  I've been putting the ball real well the last few weeks and just keeping it in front of me.  This golf course is relatively difficult.  We got some soft conditions yesterday and today was firming up quite a bit, but for the most part just keeping it in front of me, that was the key to where I'm at right now.
Q. When you say, keeping it in front of you, I hear that a lot, what does that really mean to you?
NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: Just not bringing in back edges, not bringing in front edges.  Just, if the pin's in the front you want to air it a little long.  You take your 25 footers basically is what I'm trying to say.
Q. So don't sacrifice, like basically don't make mistakes that might put you behind in a bad situation?
NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: Exactly.  Aggressive play can lead to some big mistakes out here.  So, any time you don't have to hit driver, you lay it back and put it in position and go from there.  And the same into the greens.  If you got a back pin, you leave it short of the hole and just kind of rely on your putting.  Patience.  I know everybody says patience, but that's really what it is on a golf course like this.
Q. Having said that, knowing how tough the greens are, keeping it in front of you means what?  A 20-footer, 25-footer?
NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: I'll take 25 feet every hole, every hole out here, every day.  Definitely.
Q. You're not trying to pin seek?
NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: When you got a good number and a pin that's accessible, there's probably four or five a day that we'll have that you can kind of fire at it, but for the most part just they're put in little crevices and everything is running away on one side, so just putting it in the right spot is really key.  I got a new caddie, Rick Wynn, on the bag with me this week and he's had some good experience out on the TOUR and he, it's nice to have somebody that I can rely on and trust.  Because I've been kind of fighting finding a caddie and hiring locals, for the most part.
Q. You started playing golf seriously a little over 10 years ago.  So what's it like seeing your name at the top of the leaderboard?
NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: It's the best.  That's why I play.  I've always been competitive, so any time I get in a situation to show myself or my stuff, I try to take advantage of it.
Q. What made you want to play golf seriously back then?
NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: Just watching it on TV.  When I first started playing, just seeing a ball and a hole, like how hard can it be.  But we all know that golf is a lot harder than you think it is.  But the higher the level you play, the more difficult it is.  The rough gets longer, the greens get faster, firmer, longer golf courses, so, yeah, just that competitive drive is really what I love.
Q. Are you a Tiger guy, did you grow up watching Tiger?
NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: Yeah, I didn't play a whole ton of golf growing up, so he was definitely, when I first started playing, he was at the peak of his success.  I loved seeing him in contention, he's really fun to watch.
Q. What do you have to do the next two days?  What's the key part of your game or physically mentally what do you got to do from here?
NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: I would say in the past month and a half I've put myself in contention a couple times, but I won in Utah and I finished runner-up a couple weeks ago, so just kind of go off of what I've been doing and that's just hanging in there and not getting ahead of myself.
Q. You know how to do that, now that you've done it?
NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: Exactly.  You learn from your mistakes and I've had both good and bad sides of going out on the weekends and pushing too hard and I've had the other side of it where I've just hung in there and good things happen.
Q. Do you find on the tougher golf courses it suits you?
NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: There's some that don't suit me, but there's some that definitely do.  I'll tell you, last year out here, I can't remember what I shot the first round, 78 or 79, and I packed it after the first day, I just I wasn't mentally in it.  I played really bad, and I kind of have a little redemption to get out here.  So I felt good coming into the week, I had a couple days off last week, I didn't make the cut, so sometimes that's a good thing.  So I feel rested and now I got the afternoon to go and really rest up for the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT