U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2014
Nicholas Lindheim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. (No Microphone.)NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: If we're first out and there's nobody starting on 10, let's just go play our game.  It was ideal.
Q. This is your caddie?NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: This is my caddie, yeah.
Q. A good friend of yours?NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: Yeah, a really good friend of mine.
Q. What's his name?NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: Carter.  Carter Hennessey.
Q. Is it true you just started playing golf at 19?NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: I was a little younger.  I was 17.  I played a lot of baseball through my childhood and grew up in southern California, did a lot of skateboarding and so I was always at the beach, hanging out with the friends. Actually hurt my elbow playing baseball and just kind of got into golf, worked at a country club, made some decent money working, making tips and stuff like that, working at the country club; and continuously played golf and I got better and better. I had a couple guys that were willing to help me play some professional events and continuously got better and better.  Started playing well in Florida and making a little bit of money playing the mini tours and really saw myself progress.  Took it on to the next stage, went to qualifying school the last three years, missed finals two years ago by a shot.  Got to finals this year and got some status on the web.com TOUR.  So it's come a lot quicker than I would have ever expected.
Q. What was the reason for you to start playing golf?NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: It was just such a fun game.  I like to gamble, too, a little bit, so don't say that, but.  There's a lot of gambling in golf.  But, yeah, it was just so much fun.  It's the most challenging game.  I mean, I love sports, I've always been an athlete and it is, bar none, the toughest sport I've ever played.
Q. What you're saying is you got your start as a hustler on a golf course?NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: No, no, I wouldn't say that.  But I definitely, I like playing for a couple bucks, it's just keeps you focused and keeps you on point.  Nobody likes losing, let alone losing your money.
Q. What position did you play?NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: Short stop and pitcher.
Q. Were you the best player on the team?NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: I was pretty good, I don't want to sit here and brag on myself too much, but I was pretty good, I had some college recruits at a really young age, 11, 12 years old.  My sister, she went to Florida State, full scholarship starting short stop and.
Q. What's her nail?NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: Brittany Lindheim.
Q. Okay.NICHOLAS LINDHEIM: Yeah.  And my mom's a great athlete, track athlete.  My dad was an Olympic trial swimmer.  So we got some good genes in the family. But I'm just very excited and very happy to be here.  Making the cut on the number, I missed the cut by a shot last week in Cleveland in the web.com event, and I made it on the number here, and I'm very pleased that I made it out here.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT