U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2018
Will Grimmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So great start today to get yourself in position; then you got to hold on there a little bit.
WILL GRIMMER: Yeah, I hit the ball really well to start and made some nice putts; made about an 18-footer on No. 10, my first hole.
Then hit a really good shot in -- I laid up on 11, which was smart not trying to go for it out of the rough, or out of the fairway.  Hit a good wedge in and made a slick putt above the hole.
Then made a great birdie on 12, so it was a really good start.
Then, yeah, I made a three-putt on 15 and I three-putted again on 5, the par-3.  That got me back to even on the day.  Just kind of late in the day I couldn't really get any of the putts I was getting to drop early to drop, and so...
You know, even fighting a few things in my swing, just tried to really focus on making pars and just getting to the house.
I know this wasn't a stroke play tournament so didn't matter if I was 1 or 64.  I think I might have had a little bit different approach if this was a four-day stroke play event.
But knowing I just needed to get to 2-over to secure it, I just tried to just play smart, a little more conservative than maybe I normally do.  Just kind of play to the middle of the greens and just take what it gives me.
Q. Is there a sense of relief knowing that you're probably nowhere near the playoff anyhow?
WILL GRIMMER: Yes.  Yeah, no, a huge sense of relief.  I was well inside the cut line early, after those first three holes, but it just kind of crept on me, and I knew I had some tough holes left on the front nine.
This golf course definitely isn't easy.  You can make some bogeys in a hurry out here.  This is my fifth Am in a row.  I haven't made match play since 2015 up at Olympia Fields.
I missed a four-footer in 2016.  I lipped out to miss the playoff by one.
I was in good position last year and kind of blew up on the back nine second round.
So to be back in this position, get another round in at Pebble Beach tomorrow is going to be special.
Q. I'm going to ask you Pebble Beach and playing match play.  How does it set up in your mind?
WILL GRIMMER: I love it.  I think it's great.  I've gotten to play here the last few years for the college tournament, the Carmel Cup, and they like to set it up a lot differently, especially between rounds.  Like I think hole 4 is going to be a match play hole.  They can do a lot things with that tee.
10; a lot of people don't even realize there is that little tee to the right of 9 green.  I talked to people at the USGA that say that's going to be used at some point this week.
I think there are just some great risk/reward.  The par-5s are some the most exciting par-5s in golf:  6, 14, and 18.
Great par-3s.  There are a lot of different things I think they can do with the golf course aside from it just being Pebble Beach that makes it a great match play course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT