U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 16, 2018
Will Grimmer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How did you feel like you did today compared to the first two rounds?  
WILL GRIMMER: If we just compared our score to the first two rounds, obviously it's a little more disappointing.  But looking at what guys have shot today and what guys on the course are right now, I can't really complain too much.   
It got really, really difficult.  I was 1-under through 6 and just kind of plugging and chugging, and then the greens started getting really, really firm and kind of that crustiness to them.  It got tough.   
I putted one off the green on 13 and then actually made a really, really good up-and-down for par.   
It's the U.S. Open.  It's the weekend.  This is my first cut made.  In 2014, I played but didn't make the cut.  I knew it was going to be more of a challenge this weekend.  I knew they were going to have it be faster, a little firmer.  It was a new experience for me.   
The crowds today were -- it was a completely different ball game than the last two days.  Guys chanting out all sorts of fun stuff, which was great.  It was a new environment for me.   
So with all that said, I'm not going to complain and I'm still in the mix for low Amateur.  Bottom line is we're in our own little tournament within a tournament and I'm two strokes from where I need to be.  So go play a solid round tomorrow and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  The fear was that they were going to lose the course, like what happened in 2014.  
WILL GRIMMER: 2004, yeah.   
 Q.  2004, sorry.  Yeah.  What do you think?  
WILL GRIMMER: I'm not going to comment.  I'm going to let the best players in the world comment.  But be prepared for some interesting comments, I guess is all I'm going to say and I'm going to leave it at that.   
 Q.  It really is a three-man tournament as far as you and the other two guys is concerned.  Do you embrace that or do you try to dismiss it?  
WILL GRIMMER: I'm for sure embracing it.  This is the coolest thing in the world to be playing -- to go out, tomorrow is Father's Day, for my dad to be walking and to share this moment and playing on the weekend in a major is just a thrill.  And to try to go low Amateur, that's a big deal for an amateur to be low and be in that trophy ceremony.  It would be a really cool honor tomorrow.  I'm looking forward to the challenge.   
 Q.  What is the main challenge to get low Amateur for yourself tomorrow?  
WILL GRIMMER: I think just to be in the right mindset and to understand.  I felt like I was prepared going into today, but I don't think I really realized how quickly the conditions were going to change, especially on the greens.  So really get my speed back dialed in.  I had my speed really, really good on Thursday and Friday, but I got a little bit off.  I think I was a little bit rattled on the back nine today.   
So just going over, getting some practice this afternoon, getting the speed dialed in and just being solid again with the putter and short game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT