SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2012
Bobby Clampett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the greens that Nicklaus built here. 
BOBBY CLAMPETT:   There's a genius behind it.   And you sit there and you know that there's certain parts of the greens that you need to be for all the pin placements or wherever the hole is located and there's a certain shape of shot that you need to hit.   And the guy that embraces that and the guy that is shaping the ball well is going to do really well here. 
And for me it's matter of really getting the putter going and just get a little momentum.   I birdied the last two holes, so that helped. 

Q.   General comments about your round today?
BOBBY CLAMPETT:   Well, it was a struggle, really.   One of those days where everything that could go wrong, did go wrong early in the round.   It wasn't that I was playing poorly, it was just nothing was going my way and I kept making bogeys. 
And then all of a sudden I make my fourth bogey on the first hole and hit a couple bad shots, but it was, I just kind of hung in there and all of a sudden made three birdies coming in to get it back to even.

Q.   Has it been a tale of two courses yesterday with the wind and today relatively mild?
BOBBY CLAMPETT:   Yeah, today was definitely milder than yesterday, better scoring conditions.   But this golf course is one, it's actually growing on me, because it requires you to hit excellent golf shots.   If you hit any marginal shots here, you can really get the bad end of the deal and make a bogey in a hurry.   So it forces you to hit good quality golf shots.

Q.   Would you compare this golf course to any other you've played as far as the layout, hopping in the vans going from hole to hole?
BOBBY CLAMPETT:   Yeah, it's definitely spread out, but the thing I like about it, those holes over there on the lake are just amazing.   And Jack, there's a lot of things ‑‑ I told him earlier this week, I thought it was the best bunkering job I've ever, ever, ever seen on any golf course ever.   It's that beautiful.   And just esthetically you look at the way the holes layout along the creeks and the river's and it's just beautiful.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT