BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
May 1, 2011
Park Sang-Hyun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: First of all we have Park Sang-Hyun here who has carded a 10-under par and who shot a beautiful eagle shot on the 18th. Begin by asking about your performance today.   
 PARK SANG-HYUN: I'm extremely happy that I have such a good score today on this final day. It's the highest score among the Korean players, so I'm extremely happy. After the third round, I think I started off strong, but towards the end, difficulty with my putting, but at the very last hole, I nailed that eagle. So I'm very happy.  
  
  Q. Could you tell us about the conditions on that final 18th hole when you made that eagle shot? I presume that if you were not in that sprinkler hole that you would have had to play from the rough, and if that had happened, what do you think would have happened?  
 PARK SANG-HYUN: The final shot, as I was making the tee shot, I had my eyes towards the bunker and I was trying to make a fade shot and went as a planned.   
 However on the second shot, because there was a downward lie, I had to consider or think about how to get the ball up. I think if had the ball been on an upward lie, I would have thought that I could make an eagle or I would have tried to make an eagle from there.   
 But I saw the downward lie and I thought to myself that I had to make a birdie. So I just looked at the pin and hit it and it got in the sprinkler and it was slightly long and that's where it got in the sprinkler hole and I took relief.   
 I think I was more focused on getting birdie at the time and I used a putter and it was an eight-metre putt; and what can I say, I was lucky.   
  
  Q. Wanted to ask about your trousers, a fabulous colour, are they your lucky trousers, or will they be your lucky trousers from now on maybe?  
 PARK SANG-HYUN: No, these are not my lucky trousers. Actually one of my main sponsors is a clothing brand called Andre Kim and the designer designs in a very elegant fashion, so all of the golf wear in this line are rather unique.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about the success of Korean golfers?  
 PARK SANG-HYUN: Let me begin by saying that Y.E. Yang and K.J. Choi have been doing so well overseas, there has been a big boom in golf. Their performance has shown pro golfers and amateurs alike that they have a real chance at winning in some of these championships, and so they have a role model and I think this is leading to better scores from Korean players. And I think the Ballantine's Championship, in its fourth year, Korean players have made it to the Top-5 or Top-10 quite often. I think next year or the year after that, definitely a Korean player could win.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT