BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 28, 2011
Park Sang-Hyun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Hello, everyone. Right now Park Sang-Hyun is with us and he has currently shot 5-under par and he is currently in the leading group. And so we would like to hear from him about his game this morning.   
 PARK SANG-HYUN: Overall, I think I did pretty well today, and, in fact, because of the distance of each course isn't that long, I actually focused not on getting long hits but actually getting my ball on the fairway.   
 And actually, I think the location of the flags was much easier. For instance, going from the second shot on to the green, I felt the greens were two-tiered, which was something I was familiar with, because usually when there is a two-tiered green, the pin is usually on the upper side. So, in fact, with putting, I think I missed maybe two putts. So out of ten, I think I nailed about eight.   
 Actually the round started off rather comedic. Before we started the first hole, the Australian player who was originally in our group could not make it, and a Korean player waiting joined us. So, in fact, my group consisted of three Korean players. When we were out there, it actually felt more like a Korean tour. So I was able to relax a little bit more, and maybe it was because I was in the first group, but I didn't see visually any of the big stars, so I didn't feel that much pressure and I stayed focused on my game.   
  
  Q. You're actually in a very good position now. So what's your strategy in the coming three days?   
 PARK SANG-HYUN: So I teed up in the morning, and I was in the second group, so I haven't been able to see other players play yet.   
 But having three rounds left, I think instead of focusing on these star players, I'm going to concentrate on my game, and if I do well and I do get up there with some competitors who have big star quality, then I think it will be an honor. So I'm trying not to feel the pressure and just focusing on my game and what I can do.   
  
  Q. So in terms of your form, your condition, do you think you feel better since the Tee Way Airline (ph) competition?  
 PARK SANG-HYUN: I think I'm overall in a good condition. During the competition in the final round, I started off very well, and then towards the end, it wasn't as good, but in the end, overall, I was satisfied with my performance. But of course right now, I started off on a good, strong start so I can hope for the best.   
  
  Q. First of all, I have two questions. First is that do you think you are at an advantage because of the course was, of course, wet, so you are able to pick and wipe your ball? My second question is you had one bogey in the first round at a par 5 hole. So I'm curious as to how that happened?  
 PARK SANG-HYUN: First of all, as for the pick and wipe it, didn't help that much. I already shot a really good shot, and so it was already in a very good position on the fairways. So I don't think that that helped me that much.   
 As for my bogey, I think the par 5 holes on this course are actually more difficult. It's actually as difficult as getting a birdie on a short hole. I did -- I hit in the bunker and I got it out, two metres to the pin, but in the process of putting, I made a bogey.   
  
  Q. The course is difficult, yet you have managed to record 5-under. How many unders do you think is needed for you to win this championship? What's the score?   
 PARK SANG-HYUN: Actually I think the location of the pins will become more difficult, and of course, weather is a factor.  
 I played in the morning today, so there was no wind. It was slightly cold so the weather was barely. In short I think the conditions were ripe for me to get a good score. I think given the calibre of the players here, my prediction is that in order to win, would you have to record maybe 12-under.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT