U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 22, 2015
Kenta Konishi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PETE KOWALSKI: Like to welcome Kenta Konishi defeated by Derek Bard 3 & 2 in the U.S. Amateur semifinals.   
A very good performance this week.  What was -- were there any difficulties for you today; did something not feel right when you were playing out there.   
KENTA KONISHI: Difficult pin placements today, and also different wind direction.  So that's why it's hard to put the ball closer to the pin today.   
PETE KOWALSKI: One last question before I give it to the other folks.  Was Derek a difficult opponent?  Did he play so well that it was difficult to beat Derek?  The way Derek played, did that make it very difficult to win?   
KENTA KONISHI: His playing style is similar to me.  All day he's hitting kind of straight, and he doesn't make a mistake.  It's hard for me.  Because normally, if I keep playing good, sometimes opponent make a mistake.  But today, he doesn't make a mistake.  That is tough today.   
 Q.  What did you learn about yourself and your game this week?  
KENTA KONISHI: It's a big thing for me to play with a great player at this great tournament.  And also, it was a confidence to me to play those players very close.  I had a lot of close matches.  And also, the difficult course conditions, getting much more difficult day after day.  The greens are getting faster, so you need to learn to adjust to the kind of green speed.  And also, like today, very difficult pin placements.  I need to learn how to get my ball close.  So I can practice those from now.   
 Q.  I'm interested in what the future holds.  What are your immediate plans for playing next?  What is your future in golf?  What do you want it to be?  
KENTA KONISHI: I want to be a professional golfer in the future and want to play more in the US like the major tournaments.  I believe myself to win the major tournaments.  So I will now work hard to get that goal.   
PETE KOWALSKI: You lost the first hole and you were behind the whole match, never got it to all-square, you were playing from behind.  What did you try to do to win a hole and get a break and try to make the difference.   
KENTA KONISHI: I focused my play wherever I play, and I believe in myself, that sometimes my chance is coming.   
 Q.  You mentioned that you want to have a professional career and do well there.  Is there a time line for turning pro?  
KENTA KONISHI: I'm a junior at school right now, so maybe next year I'm going to qualify but I don't know which qualifying school I'm going to, but I'm going to try to qualify to become a professional.   
PETE KOWALSKI: I'm interested in the logo of your hat.  What is your school's mascot or nickname, on the side of your hat?   
KENTA KONISHI: Penguin.  That's my school mascot.   
PETE KOWALSKI: Kenta, you deserve the medalist as the semifinalist.  Thank you very much.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT