NL DIVISION SERIES: DODGERS VS METS
October 10, 2015
Justin Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Against their kinds of pitchers who throw hard and stay is this the zone, is it important to go up there ready to hit early in counts and not necessarily try to draw out long at-bats?  
JUSTIN TURNER: No, I think it's important to be ready to hit.  They actually do throw a lot of chase pitches.  Their off speed stuff is usually chase.  So it's important to stay in the zone and take a good AB and make them work for every out they get, and hopefully try to break them down, get them out of the game early and get into their bullpen.   
 Q.  Looking back on it, were you guys as a team satisfied with your approach against deGrom yesterday?  
JUSTIN TURNER: I thought we took pretty good at-bats.  Obviously, the results weren't there.  We got some guys on, and we just weren't able to get the timely hit.  The difference in the game was they got -- David got a timely hit for them.   
 Q.  Could you sort of break down the differences between deGrom and Syndergaard?  Outside perception is these guys are just two really hard throwers.  With you are there any new nuances to their approaches?  
JUSTIN TURNER: They're both pretty good.  DeGrom is a little more slider heavy, and Syndergaard likes to throw a little bigger breaking ball.  And I think Syndergaard will throw a few more changeups to our righties tonight.  I don't think deGrom threw any changeups to our right-handers last night.   
 Q.  Is there any particular challenge to having four days off?  I know you had some workouts, but then coming out and facing guys who are 96 and up?  
JUSTIN TURNER: Yeah, the time off is always something that you think about, because hitting is all about having your timing ask your rhythm at the plate.  So no matter what you do in those four days, you're not a hundred percent sure if your timing is going to be there if when you come back, especially running into guys that run it up there 95, 97, 99.  So you've just got to do whatever you can to make sure you're on time.   
 Q.  The Mets have changed a great deal since you were there, but what was -- could you see any of the beginnings of what they've become when you were there?  Also what was it like to be David Wright's teammate and see what he does every day?  
JUSTIN TURNER: David had a big influence on my career as far as he's the ultimate professional.  He's there every day for you guys to grill him.  He prepares every single day his routine that he goes through is getting lengthier and lengthier as his career's going on with his injuries.  I think the amazing thing about him is he's there and he does it every single day.  He reminds me a little bit of Clayton.  Clayton's the same way.   
So I learned a lot from David.  I did get a small sample of those young arms coming up.  Harvey was there when I was there, and heard a lot about deGrom.  Familia was there when I was there.  So I got a small taste of it.  They're as advertised.   
 Q.  A follow-up on that.  Just generally, what did those years, what impact did they have on you to becoming the player that you are now your Mets years?  
JUSTIN TURNER: The main thing was experience, being around a lot of veteran guys when I was there.  When I first came up, it was Reyes and Beltran, and obviously David was there the whole time.  You just try to be a sponge and hang around them and learn as much as you can from them.  But I kind of took a turn for the better offensively when I met Marlon Byrd in 2013.   
 Q.  Based on the time you spent in New York, what kind of atmosphere are you expecting when the series goes back there?  
JUSTIN TURNER: Should be pretty electric.  First playoff game ever in Citi Field, so when I was a Met, that was always in the back of our mind, having a playoff game.  I'm pretty excited to be able to be a part of it, even though I'm on the other side.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT