MLB WORLD SERIES: DODGERS VS RED SOX
October 28, 2018
Justin Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you guys plan to rebound from yesterday just to get out here today and know that you've got one more game here and two more there?
JUSTIN TURNER: Yeah, same way we've done all year long.  Last night, obviously, didn't end the way we wanted it to, but today is a new day.  We're going to get together, figure out a game plan to go out and win a ballgame, just like we've done every day for the past two years.
Q. Does the roller coaster nature of this season for you guys make it easier to absorb last night's loss?
JUSTIN TURNER: I wouldn't say easier, but we have dealt with a lot of adversity.  Played with our back against the wall pretty much the entire season.  So we're in a pretty familiar waters right now, I guess you could say.
Obviously it's a must win, and we're going to go out and do everything we can to accomplish that and extend the series and get back to Boston.
Q. Curious, the way the Red Sox have been shuffling their pitching pretty much throughout the series and the last series, does that impact you in terms of your preparation, who you're getting ready for either physically or mentally?
JUSTIN TURNER: No, I think we've seen all of their guys now, and after the NLCS and this series there isn't too much that can surprise us as far as pitching and matchups and changing of starters and openers.  We've kind of seen it all now.
Q. After four games against these guys, how are the Red Sox a different challenge and what makes them as good as they are, compared to a lot of National League teams you faced during the season?
JUSTIN TURNER: I think they're very similar to us, especially offensively.  They grind out at-bats.  They make pitchers work hard, and they have a lot of guys over there capable of hitting long balls.  So watching them from my perspective on defense, the quality of at-bat that they put together, it reminds me a lot of our club.
Q. How much confidence do you guys have in a do-or-die game with Clayton on the mound?
JUSTIN TURNER: All the confidence in the world.  He's our ace.  He's our guy.  In this position there's no one else that anyone in that room would rather have the ball.  So he's going to go out there and without a doubt empty the tank and compete harder than anyone on the planet will tonight to give us a chance to get back to Boston.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT