BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2019
Brandon Schneider
Christalah Lyons
Brianna Osorio
Kylee Kopatich
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Iowa State 75, Kansas 58   
THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by the Kansas Jayhawks, head coach Brandon Schneider, student-athletes, Christalah Lyons, Kylee Kopatich and Brianna Osorio.  Coach, your thoughts about tonight's game?   
BRANDON SCHNEIDER: I was really proud of our fight.  I know we got down but continued to compete until the very end, which is indicative of this team's character.  Led by a terrific group of seniors.  I think Iowa State is an hell of a team.  I would not be surprised if they advanced very, very deep in the NCAA Tournament.   
 Q.  For all the players, talk about the moment that your coach shared with you at the end of the game, you guys are seniors, last time playing, talk about that moment.  
KYLEE KOPATICH: Well, I'm going to try to not say a lot because then I will start to tear up.  But he expressed how much the coaching staff cares about us and how much they love us and how proud they are of us and all of the successes over the last couple of years.  That's all I'm going to say.  I'm going to start to cry.   
THE MODERATOR: Would you like to respond?   
CHRISTALAH LYONS: I think it was a lot of emotions after the game, a lot of tears, because this is the last year playing.   
 Q.  For all the seniors.  Just describe probably the best moment that you guys had over your career.  
KYLEE KOPATICH: I got this.  Beating K-State at K-State.   
CHRISTALAH LYONS: Yep.   
BRIANNA OSORIO: Yeah, that's it.   
 Q.  Just describe the relationship with your coach.  It seemed like a touching moment, everybody was feeling the moment, it seemed so special.  What was the relationship like and some gems that he's taught you guys throughout the years.  
CHRISTALAH LYONS: For me, it was personal, because Coach Brandon was only one of the few people that recruited me out of college and JUCO and he's a caring person and cares for every single one of his players, which stood out to me about Coach Brandon.   
KYLEE KOPATICH: Being a four-year player of his, we've been through a lot, I'll say that.  There have been some ups and downs, some we expected and some we didn't.  The loyalty that we had for each other and the love that he just continued to show me and Kylee and Chelsea who have stuck around with him.  It's great to have him as a coach and if I had to do it all over again I would pick him again.   
BRIANNA OSORIO: I really felt at home once he recruited me and we have a unique relationship.  I make fun of him.  He makes fun of me, so I'll miss that.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, ladies.  Questions for Coach now?   
 Q.  Coach, I can just tell the relationship with you and your players is very good.  You guys look like you're in good spirits and at the end of the game I saw you were really emotional.  Talk about your relationship with your three seniors up here and the moment that you had with them at the end of the game.  
BRANDON SCHNEIDER: I think Kylee used a great word.  They are extremely loyal, and they demonstrate that every day by their hard work and their dedication, their willingness to be coached and be challenged.  I thought they demonstrated their competitive spirit, not only today but in this tournament.  I'm really glad that we could share the game that we had last night together.  But, you know, people talk about family all the time, but I really do believe in our program that it's genuine, and I think our players understand that when they make a commitment to come to the University of Kansas it may be a two-year or four-year commitment.  But in return they're getting a lifetime commitment from our coaching staff.   
 Q.  So speaking on that, moving forward now losing some players that are by big part of the family, how are you going to move forward from there?  
BRANDON SCHNEIDER: We've got a lot of work to do in recruiting still.  We did sign five players early.  In the early signing period, but we still have a few scholarships, and we'll aggressively continue to try to improve our program.   
 Q.  In what ways do you think are the main things that didn't work that you can also improve on, in terms of recruiting and building for next season?  
BRANDON SCHNEIDER: I don't know that early in our time at Kansas we focused enough on culture and chemistry, and I can tell you that after having a couple of rough years, that is a premium on which we make every decision.  I think it's now why you can see three young ladies in front of you who have such high character.   
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT