BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 2, 2018
Brandon Schneider
Tyler Johnson
Christalah Lyons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Kansas State - 72, Kansas - 63
THE MODERATOR: We are now joined by the Kansas Jayhawks.  Coach your thoughts about tonight's game?
BRANDON SCHNEIDER: Well, I thought our team played well enough for 35 minutes to have -- give ourselves a chance to win.  Unfortunately, we didn't close out the game that we would have liked.  We committed some turnovers, and they did a good job of getting out in transition and not only getting a couple of layups, but Kaylee Page made some big threes in that stretch.
THE MODERATOR: Questions for our student-athletes?
Q. The biggest difference in your opinion in the fourth quarter they got you 26-12, what was not happening for you guys that was happening earlier?
CHRISTALAH LYONS: Yeah, like Coach said we would a couple of turnovers and we wasn't hitting the shots that we needed at that moment.
Q. Tyler, I know that Kansas State is your arch rival.  Does it hurt more to lose in a tournament just because it's them, or would you have felt the same no matter who you play?
TYLER JOHNSON: It always hurts to lose to an arch rival, but I feel like a loss is a loss and I feel like it hurts either way.
Q. Their height seems immense, at least my eyes, from a distance.  Can you talk about how difficult it is to cover a team that tall?
TYLER JOHNSON: Well, you know, I mean, they had an obvious height advantage, but I feel like -- like Coach said, for 35 minutes we defended them pretty well.  You know for those five minutes we just slipped up.  Yeah, they have a lot of height; but I feel like, like I said, we could have had 'em if we would have just stuck to the plan.
Q. Christalah, what are you going to remember most about this season?
CHRISTALAH LYONS: I'm remembering the seniors.  This was important for them and we came up short, so -- we have a bunch of returners, so I'm going to miss the seniors.
THE MODERATOR: Ladies, we're going to let you go.  Thank you.  Questions for Coach?
Q. There you go.  How much does it hurt to lose that last game?
BRANDON SCHNEIDER: Well, I think for me it does bother me in terms of who the opponent is.  You never like to lose your last game.  We really wanted to try to create a positive memory for our seniors today.
We came up short.  It always stings.  It's a situation where we few teams get to end on a win, maybe two every year, or three I guess, there are three post-season tournaments.  But it hurts.
Q. Guarding Kaylee, she had the five threes, what sets her apart as far as being able to -- she seems like sometimes she is wide open but she earns that?
BRANDON SCHNEIDER: She has good length.  I think she got several of those in transition.  Maybe not at the center position but at every other position they're one of the bigger teams in our league and can really play wide and extend their zone.
I thought Kaylee was a player that, you know, when it was time to make plays, credit her, she made some big, big baskets.
THE MODERATOR: Coach, thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT