ROSE BOWL GAME: OREGON VS WISCONSIN
December 30, 2019
Troy Dye
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel to be one day closer, almost ready to actually play again? It's been so much time since you have played a football game?  
TROY DYE: It feels amazing to be where I'm at, to actually do what we're doing. It's surreal to be at the Rose Bowl and be at the "Granddaddy of Them All". We're taking every event they give us with a smile on our face, enjoying the moments. At the same time we have to understand it's a business trip.   
And we're taking that in every sense and every time, good tempo, energy, fired up with everything we do. And now we're going to get into the more mindset type of practices and meetings, stuff like that, to polish what we've done. And just as the days get closer, it's the day before, the day before and we're just excited and blessed with the opportunity that we have.   
 Q.  You grew up on the West Coast. What did this game mean to you growing up, seeing it as a kid?  
TROY DYE: It was a game that meant everything to me. West Coast, probably biggest game on the West Coast, probably the biggest game of all the bowl games. So I watched it every year as far as I can remember, all the way back to Vince Young (indiscernible) won and SC won, all the way back to it. Probably one of my fondest memories of this game, watch it every year. And even last year, the year before last, always watched it.   
I really enjoy this game and really enjoy the (inaudible) it brings and the history that it has. I'm super blessed to be part of a great legacy and playing in a game that so many good players before me have played in.   
So many all-Americans, Hall of Famers, people who stepped on this field, and it means a lot to me and my teammates to be able to go out here and put on a good show for not only the University of Oregon, but the State of Oregon, City of Eugene and all the fans back home. Means a lot to be here and super surreal.   
 Q.  Have to imagine, even as a kid, you talked about that, but getting to share this moment with your brother. That's got to be something really special, right?  
TROY DYE: Most definitely. I sat next to him every day in the meetings. We sit there, it's a cool thing to be able to go out in my last game and play in the Rose Bowl with my little brother, somebody I watched the game with my whole life with. And we dreamed about stuff like this and playing in the big moments on the big stages.   
And it's super crazy to see my jersey with a patch on it and just know this is actually really going to happen in a couple of days. But at the same time understand it's a business trip, and no matter how it plays out, it's still a game at the end of day. Wisconsin is here for a reason. And we are here for a reason as well. And so Wisconsin is a very good team. We look forward to the challenges it brings.   
 Q.  Being able to play in such a big game crowd-wise, the noise and things like that, does that excite you knowing that this will be the biggest crowd you've ever played in front of you?  
TROY DYE: We play in Autzen Stadium, probably one of the loudest places. I've ever played in my life. You can't match that. One of the best places. To be able to come to the Rose Bowl and play here in front of a big crowd is how probably we're hopefully going to be the same type of atmosphere. And I really look forward to it. And also biggest crowd I've ever played in front of in my career. Look forward to it. And I'm just taking it all in one day at a time, one moment at a time, be where my feet are and just enjoying every moment.   
 Q.  Special day for the seniors. (Inaudible) talk about are some conversations you're having with each other, and then the (inaudible) game, can you chime in on that?  
TROY DYE: I mean, some of the seniors, we've been talking this whole season about what we've been doing, winning all the games at home, it's kind of a big deal for us. Obviously talking about having home field advantage, being really good at Autzen Stadium. To be undefeated at home meant a lot to us. Or on the road, big games we've won on the road means a lot to us.   
Now we're here, talk about focusing on winning the bowl. That we always want to be. And Coach Arroyo totally bought in for us and he's been through and through this whole time, the whole bowl prep. And respect him and enjoy him being here and thank him for coming back and coaching his last game because it does mean a lot. He deserves it, because he's been with us the whole season. And I think he has a great scheme coming up, excited for what he has to put on.   
 Q.  Some people appreciate -- I'm putting on my pads in practice the last time.  
TROY DYE: Yesterday was the last time I had a full padded practice. And it was surreal, and the practice jersey with pads, and it was kind of cool because this whole year has been kind of the last time, so to speak, moments. And I've enjoyed every one of them.   
I think at 6:00 on January 1st, when it's all said and done and I no longer an Oregon Duck, so to speak, it will hit me a little bit harder.   
But as everybody says, once a Duck, always a Duck and we really mean that, because it doesn't matter whether you graduated back in '02 or '95 or graduated in '68, you're always a Duck. And you always continue to be a Duck. And the fan base and the alumni do a great job of making sure people remember that. And I'm super fortunate blessed to be able to be part of such a great organization, such a great city and university.   
 Q.  On your injury status, you know you were wearing a sleeve on your knee and your thumb as well.  
TROY DYE: My thumb is doing great. My thumb is doing a really good process. My knee was bothering me, that's because I'm an old man. Been playing the game four years. Just little nicks and dings here and there. Nothing major. Nothing that crazy that will stop me from playing in the Granddaddy of Them All. I played the whole season with a broken thumb and a big club on it. If you think anything will stop me, you're crazy. I'll be out there playing. Don't worry about it.   
 Q.  How do you contain Jonathan Taylor?  
TROY DYE: You can't really try to contain Jonathan Taylor. He's going to get his. A back-to-back Doak Walker Award winner. You can't try to contain him. Try to limit him what he can do, and he's a great running back.   
Just have to play with inside the scheme Coach Avalos gives us, and check all the boxes we can check off. And hopefully at the end of the day we do what we need to do to win the game.   
 Q.  How much family do you have coming?  
TROY DYE: Not much. I have six tickets of mine. Six tickets from Travis. 12 total. 12 family coming. Main group of family and some friends, and my girlfriend. My brother and his girlfriend, my other brother and his girlfriend.   
One of my brothers is still back in Eugene. He couldn't get some time off work. He had to work. Watching on TV.   
My little sister is coming, and my aunt is coming. A lot of people that I really love that come to a lot of games, and really look forward to playing in front of them for the last time.   
 Q.  Troy, I heard a story on Isaac. I'd like to ask you questions about him. First, where do you think he's made his biggest strides from last season to this?  
TROY DYE: I think just the way he carries himself off the field. He carries himself a lot more as a leader, and he's taken up that role. He's filling shoes more than we could ever hope. So he's taken that job and run with it. The Mike linebacker has to be the heart and soul of the defense, and he's done that.   
I'm excited to see what the future brings because he's just going to keep getting better. That kid, since he stepped on campus, I knew he was going to be a special player because his first practice, after the first (indiscernible), he is a natural. Knows how to get to the ball. Natural flows and movements. And when you watch him play, he's a natural linebacker.   
 Q.  About him just as a student, just as a guy?  
TROY DYE: He understands the game so much, and he's willing to learn. He's willing to get coached. He's never negative. He's always a positive guy. He's always about the team, never about me, me, me.   
You'll never see him in the media, never see him try to do a bunch of interviews or post a bunch of things. He's always about -- he's a big family-oriented guy and loves to be part of his team and he loves what he does.   
 Q.  Does he (indiscernible) at all?  
TROY DYE: No, he's a big family guy. He does what he does with his family. I don't speak much on that. I think he's a great guy. I love everything he does about himself and love the way he carries himself.   
 Q.  In your freshman season, what does this mean not to just yourself but the whole senior class, what they've been?  
TROY DYE: It means a lot to not only myself but the senior class. But if you look at the redshirt seniors, they went through the Alamo Bowl loss, and the truth thing is we went through that 4-8 season.   
It's been a whirlwind of things we've gone through, and I think being here means a lot, just shows the progress and resiliency we've had not only individually but as young men. Because to go through the coach changes and record, things that most people wouldn't stay, we've gone through, a lot of kids these days would hit the transfer portal and be gone.   
But we're super fortunate and blessed to still be here and fighting hard, be in the situation we're in.   
 Q.  Senior Troy Dye now, what would you say to freshman Troy Dye given where you guys have gotten to at this point?  
TROY DYE: I would tell him stay the course. Don't get your head down because there will be some bumps in the road. Don't get too down on yourself. Believe in the process and the coaching staff, whoever they may be. And I know at the end of the day that's all you're going to have is your brothers to your left to your right, in front of and behind you. And I think freshman Troy Dye did a good job through the years, because I made it to the senior year Troy Dye.   
 Q.  You have a New Year's resolution you'd share with me?  
TROY DYE: I never really do a big New Year's resolution guy. I always don't have New Year's resolution but be the best I can be every day and be where my feet are and never worry too much about the future. Enjoy life because you never know when it's going to cut short or it could be done in any second. I just try to enjoy every moment.   
 Q.  Once you step out on the field come Rose Bowl day, what will your emotions be like?  
TROY DYE: I really don't know. I think it will probably be a little more than a regular game day. I think when I see the flyover that's when it will hit me. You hear people talk about the flyover. Looking forward to the pageantry, all that the Rose Bowl brings.   
And at the end of the day it's another game, and you have to treat it as such. But you have to understand what's on the line. And I think everybody understands that. And we're really looking forward to the challenge that Wisconsin brings, and we're super fortunate and blessed to be in the situation we are in.   
 Q.  How ready are you guys, mentally, spiritually?  
TROY DYE: I think we're doing a really good job progressionally. Everybody's practicing really well. Everybody's watching film. Everybody's getting coached up and Coach is doing a good job with the scheme and everybody's buying into the schemes and the process.   
And he's got two more days of preparation to come, and mental day's coming up, stay focused and sharp and really dive into all the small details and focus on the small things. Hopefully everything works out in our favor.   
 Q.  You guys have proven what you have to earn (indiscernible). How will that intensify you guys?  
TROY DYE: Every week we've have to prove a lot. Come in with the 1-and-0 mindset. We treat every game like it's going to be the last game. Never treat any opponent different.   
And I think we'll carry this game a little heavier on our hearts because everybody knows what type of game this game is. But at the same time, we have that same 1-0 mindset and looking forward to the challenges.   
 Q.  Is there a team that you've already played that you can say Wisconsin was similar to this team? What would you say?  
TROY DYE: I don't think there's any team that's so to speak, the same as each other, because every team has different wrinkles and every team has different things. But there are different key players on different teams, who match up against different key players we play this week.   
But Wisconsin is definitely a great team. They're here for a reason. They do a really good job with their offense and defense and special teams. They are a complete team. We look forward to the challenges they bring. Super fortunate and excited to be here.   
 Q.  Talk about a professional player that you emulate.  
TROY DYE: I really don't try to emulate anybody. I try to be myself, play the game I need to play and be who I am and be Troy Dye. But at the end of the day I watch everybody and I watch all the good linebackers, Bobby Wagner, Myles Jack and all the top guys and just try to see how they play the game, see how they flow study the game, but at the end of the day be Troy Dye.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) last night?  
TROY DYE: No, I was busy with other things.   
 Q.  What words do you live by? What's your inspiration?  
TROY DYE: Just be where your feet are, don't ever take anything for granted because it can be taken away from you any second enjoy every moment you have in life because you don't know when your life's going to be over.   
 Q.  Who is your inspiration in your life?  
TROY DYE: My family, everybody who is around me, whether it's my girlfriend or mom, dad, little brothers, older brothers, doesn't matter whether it is somebody in my family or my tight circle, inspired by everybody who is around me pushing me to be better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT