ROLAND GARROS
May 31, 2017
Casey Dellacqua
Ashleigh Barty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. This is the first time we've had a chance to speak to both of you since Margaret Court's latest comments and your own tweet and your interview, Ashleigh.  I just wondered, how do you balance your desire to stand up for yourselves with your desire to focus on what is in front of you?
CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah.  I mean, the main focus for us is to win tennis matches, and that's what we are here to do.  So it's a fine balance of, you know, wanting to be you and speak up but also, like I said, the main focus is our tennis.
You know, it's more for me, you know, in a sense that -- yeah, but I felt like it was time for me to speak up.  I never come out and say anything.  I don't really do interviews or things, you know, in regard to that.  But I just felt like it was time for me to speak up.
And yeah, that was kind of, I mean, I guess I will just say back in 2013 that was when she wrote about me, obviously, but it was a really happy time in my life.  You know, the birth of my first child, our first child, so it was a really happy time.  So I did read the article and I left it alone.  I thought, you know what, it's not worth responding to.  So I left it.  But then obviously more and more stuff just keeps coming out and I just thought, you know what, that's why the tweet said enough.  Because it is, it's just enough.
Q. Is it particularly hurtful given that you are a mom?
CASEY DELLACQUA: At the time I was really hurt.  I mean, I was hurt because I actually know Margaret personally; I used to hit with her back in Perth so I know her.  And yeah, I was hurt at the time.
But like I said, I let it go because it was a very happy time in my life so I kind of just ignored it and thought, I'm not going to let anyone ruin my happiness.  So yes, I was hurt.
And I guess more to the point, like, I'm fine and I'm very conscious of the fact that everyone is allowed their opinion, but when you start singling out my family especially, that's when it's not okay.  And my family do not deserve to be subject to that.  She can have her opinion but my family does not deserve that and did not deserve that.  That's when I thought, you know what, it's my time to speak up.
Q. Have you had support from Tennis Australia?  The player group has been very supportive.  But Tennis Australia in particular?
A. Yeah, 100% support from Tennis Australia.  I've had, obviously, a conversation with Tennis Australia and the people, you know, involved there.  And 100% I feel supported from them.  Yeah.
Q. There is now active talk of renaming the stadium or a player protest about the name of the stadium.  It's symbolic clearly, but what would that mean to you?  Are you in favor of it, both of you?
CASEY DELLACQUA: Well, I don't really feel like going into too much in regards to that, I'll be honest.  I personally feel when I'm playing in Melbourne at the Australian Open I have a huge amount of support from the fans there.  So whatever court I do play on, I know that, you know, I'll be well supported and I have always enjoyed my time playing in Melbourne.
So yeah, obviously, the Australian Open is a long time away.  But yeah, I just prefer probably not to go into any of that.  But yeah, like I said, I have a huge amount of support in Melbourne.  I love playing in Melbourne so whatever court that might be on, but yeah, I feel fine about all that.  I'll just leave that one.
ASHLEIGH BARTY: Yeah, I think it's not really for us to comment on that.  It's something that Tennis Australia will decide and either take action or not.  It's not for us to comment on.  The Australian Open is many, many months away.  So we've got a job in front of us this week and for the rest of the year, but we'll, you know, we'll cross that bridge when it comes to it, but it's certainly not for us to comment on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT