BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL PRESENTED BY SUNCORP
December 30, 2013
Casey Dellacqua
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. DELLACQUA/G. Voskoboeva
  3‑6, 6‑2, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Is it fair to say you're back to playing some of your best tennis?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, I think so.   I think over the last few months I really felt good about where I was at.   Coming into this tournament obviously it's another level and you're playing girls top 100 and that, but I certainly believe that I'm playing well enough to win those matches.  
Sometimes that's just the difference.   Yeah, I did.   I felt like I deserved to be out there and competing at this level.   Definitely I feel like I'm playing some of my best tennis, yeah.  
   
 Q.   When you dropped a set you didn't feel any sort of panic attack?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, no, not really.   Even during the playoff I lost a set 6‑love.   That's why I playing that event in particular was really good for me.   I didn't feel like I was playing my best in the first set, but knew it would come.   
It's different playing obviously in the arena.   I haven't played in front of a crowd like that for a while and the court surface is even a little bit different than outside.  
There are a lot of things.   I just didn't want to panic or feel like thingswere ‑‑ you know, it wasn't bad, so I just thought I'll eventually find it.   I was able to do that, so that was good.  
   
 Q.   First time winning the first round here.   
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, I don't know how many tour matches I won last year.   I qualified at a lot of tour events, US Open and that.   It's good to be winning matches in the main draw.   I wanted to make the most of this opportunity with the wildcard.  
We're very lucky in Australia to receive them, so I wanted to make sure that I put everything I had out there today.   I really wanted to win and I felt like I could win.   Obviously happy that I did.  
   
 Q.   What about coming up against Victoria?   Obviously it's going to be a tough second round.   
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, it's probably‑‑ yeah, obviously her and Serena are two of the best players in the world, so to come up against Vika in the second round, yeah, obviously I'm not expected to win.   
I will just go out there.   I just feel at this point in my career that I get to play an opponent like Vika is a great opportunity, and I'm going to enjoy the moment in front of the Australian crowd and just try and do what I do well.   
Whatever happens will happen.   Yeah, certainly want to enjoy it and enjoy being out there playing a little bit of tennis.  
   
 Q.   How much did that crowd support help you?   
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, it's huge.   You're playing nine months of the year pretty much overseas and almost everyone is cheering against you for the majority of it.   It's nice to have people behind you.   I don't feel any more pressure or anything playing in front of the crowd.   You can just tell they want you to do well.   
So I just want to play my best and put up a good match.   Yeah, definitely the crowd I think really helped me today.   I had the opportunity to play on center court or I was going to get put on another court.   I was like, No, I would really like to play on center.   I'm really glad I got the opportunity to play on Patrick Rafter Arena.  
   
 Q.   How does having a family now change your perspective on tennis life?   Is it harder or easier?   
CASEY DELLACQUA:   It's neither really.   It's just‑‑ I don't know if you're parents or not, but you're happy.   You're content.   At the end of the day, whether I win or lose, I walk off and get to go home to my wonderful family.   I'm very lucky in that respect.  
It's one of the things I don't feel pressure in the sense I have to support them anymore.   I've had a successful career today, and I'm now out here and just I want to make him proud.   If he gets the opportunity to watch me one day or not, I've given it everything.  
Yeah, I'm very grateful, and we are very grateful for him.   It's not a bad thing.   (Smiling.)  
   
 Q.   How do you manage sleep with a five month old?   Is he in the same room with you?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Like I said out there, I'm very lucky I have a very supportive partner, Amanda.   She does most of the yuck night feeds.   Last night I slept 12 hours.   I got up 6:00 and took him for a walk so she could get a few more hours.   She's not playing obviously.   
But, yeah, I'm very lucky I have that support.   We'll travel with my mom or some other family on the road so that we have extra help on the road as well.   I'm not going to deny it.   It's not going to be easy.   But I want my family with me.   That's what I want, so we'll make it work.   
   
 Q.   You talked about that center court experience.   Do you think that's going to help you in the big time event, something you can at least draw on?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, yeah.   The crowd will certainly be hoping for some good tennis.   You know, hopefully they'll obviously be for me more than for her.   
Yeah, hopefully that might just maybe help a little bit, and yeah, I can give it my best shot.   We'll see what happens.   Yeah, I'm very excited with the thought of playing someone like Vika just to really see where I'm at.   Obviously she's top 10 and definitely probably one of the best in the world.   
You know, it'll be another test for me and another challenge.   I'm looking forward to it.   I've played some ITFs, but this is what you play for.   You play to play on the show courts and play with the best players in the world.  
It's Vika, so, yeah, I'm really looking forward to it.   
   
 Q.   Have you heard if she's had a pedicure this year?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, maybe hopefully she's gone back to the same pedicurist.   Is that what you call 'em?   I don't know.   No, I'm not sure.   (Laughter.)  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT