AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2012
Casey Dellacqua
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. AZARENKA/C. Dellacqua
  6‑1, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Your thoughts on the match. 
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Um, yeah, obviously I'm quite realistic, and that's where I'm at.   She's No. 3 in the world, and is a bloody good player.   So I think she will be tough to beat.   I think she's hitting the ball phenomenally well, moving well, not really making any errors.
I know it wasn't my best night, but I didn't feel like I played like the worst match of my career.   Yeah, she's‑‑ yeah, she's good.

Q.   Looked like you were trying to stay aggressive in it.   Must have been frustrating you couldn't quite make a difference because she was hitting it so well, wasn't she?
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, obviously I didn't want to be behind the baseline chasing balls all night, because that's not my game style.   I wasn't going to win like that. 
Obviously, to be honest, I have been playing girls at the lower level that don't hit the ball near as good as Azarenka.   To play someone like her is just a real, I guess, level for me. 
You know, I have played girls top 10 in the world before, but, yeah, it's just a whole other level, and I haven't had that in the last three years almost.
One thing, it's obviously disappointing to lose and to lose like that; but at the same time, I don't know.   Like I've got to take the positives from where I'm at and also take the positives from that match and learn from it. 
If I can take something from it and learn from it and move forward, you know, it's a positive for me.   I guess that's the only way I'm looking at it at the moment.

Q.   Can that sort of game give you a bit of a drive for what you need to do for the rest of the year?
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, absolutely.   I think sometimes it's good to play matches like that and see where you're at.   Those matches are probably the matches you learn more from than just winning a match, for example.
Being out there, playing against someone like her, hitting the ball against someone like that definitely makes you realize, you know, what's out there and what's winning big tournaments.
Yeah, so it's kind of good for me to be out there tonight and play that level.   Yeah, I'm actually glad that I was out there and I did it.   Yeah, I know now.   Like I said, I don't want to get down in the dumps about that match.   I want to take something from it and move forward.

Q.   Do you feel like playing Fed Cup again?   Do you want that opportunity?
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Absolutely, yeah.   I'd love nothing more than to be selected in the Fed Cup team.   That's always been something that's really important to me.
Yeah, I'd love that opportunity again, and certainly even in doubles.   I think I've had some really good results of late.
So, yeah, hopefully.

Q.   Do you feel like you've come a long way?   Do you feel like you have come a long way from where you were?
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah.   Like I said, I wasn't even playing this time last year, so I'm quite realistic where I'm at.   I know I'm not, where I want to be, and I have a lot of work to do. 
And I have been working really, really hard and I will continue to do that.   Yeah, I'll certainly‑‑ you know, I'm happy with myself where I'm at.   I'm actually probably a little bit further along than maybe I would have thought.
You know, to be back out on Rod Laver Arena, like I said, playing the No. 3 in the world, you know, her playing as well as she did and me being out there and experiencing that was kind of a positive in a way.
So I know where I'm at.   It would have been worse if I just kept winning maybe.   Yeah, I don't know.   It's all good.   I will just keep working hard.   I've got doubles tomorrow, I have mixed this week, and a big year to look forward to. 
You know, my ranking now ‑‑ you know, by winning a match my ranking is going to scoot up a little bit.   I'd like to be in the French Open off my own ranking, and, yeah, take things from there.

Q.   Do you know your program after here?
CASEY DELLACQUA:   No, not really.   There is obviously Fed Cup tie slotted in after Australian Open.   I think I need to start playing a few bigger tournaments.   Obviously at the lower level I've won six ITF tournaments in a row.   I know can I do that.   You know, I belong playing at the Grand Slams. 
In the last couple of weeks I have beaten two top around 60, 70 girls in the world.   So I know I can compete, but it's doing it consistently.   I think it's time for me to start playing a few bigger tournaments. 
You know, my first goal is to get inside top 100.   I think this week I might be around 110; I'm pushing top 100.   I will play a few in Asia and see where I go from there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT