AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 16, 2012
Casey Dellacqua
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. DELLACQUA/B. Jovanovski
  6‑3, 6‑2 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Relief?   Satisfaction?   Pleasure?   What does it feel like?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   It feels good.   Yeah, it just feels rewarding I guess for the last few years what I've been through.   But, yeah, obviously losing to her twice before, I guess figuring it out, going out, executing, yeah, all those different emotions.   
Certainly relief to get a win at Grand Slam level.  
   
 Q.   Anything different from her game at Brisbane?   
CASEY DELLACQUA:   I think the conditions helped me I think playing obviously on Margaret Court Arena where it was probably a little bit windy.   In Brisbane we played under the roof thing.   It was like perfect conditions.   So I think throwing a bit of wind I think certainly helped to my advantage.   
I guess her beating me the last few times, I think it's easier when you haven't beaten someone as well to come out.   Yeah, I knew I had to play her, come out and execute.   I guess she knew she'd beaten me twice, so it's different mentally, I guess.   
But, yeah, it's good.  
   
 Q.   You look in great shape.   Would you say you're the fittest you've ever been?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Um, yeah, I feel really good.   I've worked really hard.   Obviously having a few years out of the game I started from scratch.   There was no choice.   Yeah, obviously I've really, really put in some hard work.   
This time last year I wasn't even playing.   I was here commentating.   It's still a work in progress.   I've still got, you know, things to work on in all parts of my tennis, but, yeah, I certainly feel strong.   I feel good.   I feel fit.   I feel mentally fresh as well.   
I think all those things, yeah, are real positives.   
   
 Q.   The periods you spent out of the game the last couple years, what did you do to keep yourself occupied?   
CASEY DELLACQUA:   After I had my shoulder surgery, I was like every day doing shoulder rehab because I just had this one goal of wanting to get back.   I did get back for a period of time, but was having so much trouble with my foot.   
After the foot surgery, that threw me.   I got a little bit more down I guess because I worked hard to get back after the shoulder.   To have another surgery, I guess that's what threw me.   
That's when I took myself away from tennis.   I went to beauty school.   I did my certificate for beauty therapy.   
I was still watching a lot of tennis.   I watched the US Open.   I watched everything I possibly could.   I was in touch with everything that was going on, but always with the frame of mind that I would get back.   
But I would get back when I was ready, when my body was ready, when I felt like the time was right.   In about March last year, I thought, Okay.   Since then I've every day been working really hard.   
Yeah, still, like I said, got things to work on.   But I certainly feel like I'm heading in the right direction, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Changed your hair color since Brisbane?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, I did it myself.   Often, bored in the hotel room.   Get a packet one and just chuck it in.   Just something to do.  
   
 Q.   Did anybody recognize you when you came in the players' lounge?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   No, which is good.   I like it that way.   I get bored.   Some girls like to, I don't know, go shop.   I just style my hair or just find different things to do.  
   
 Q.   Do you do it better now after the classes?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, well I didn't do hairdressing.   I did beauty therapy.   But I can do my makeup and do other things I never could do before, pierce your ears, do waxing.   
Yeah, it was good.   I liked being normal.   It was good.   
   
 Q.   Big prospect next round, No.3 in the world.   
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, obviously I know I play Azarenka, which is a huge task for me.   It's going to be the toughest opponent that I played for a long time actually.   Yeah, I haven't really played someone at that level, I can't even remember actually.   
I watched her play in Sydney last week.   She's playing amazing tennis.   I'm going to have to go out there and do what I do well.   If that's good enough...   I'm just going to play my game.   
Obviously I know it's going to be a tough ask.   I'll just be playing free tennis and see what happens.   Obviously give it my best as I always do.   We'll see.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT