MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 11, 2010
Casey Dellacqua
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







V. DUSHEVINA/C. Dellacqua
  6-2, 6-2

 Q. I suppose it's not the ideal preparation for the Open, but it's another match under your belt. 
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, exactly. Obviously I've been out of the game for a long time. Guess I'm just, yeah, trying to get as many matches as I can. That's just another match for me. That probably just showed my lack of matches today when I was up in score and in different points, didn't close out , you know.
 So just gotta know the more matches I get hopefully I'll be able to consolidate when I'm 40-15 up and situations like that that probably, yeah, obviously I haven't had the opportunity to do because I've been out of the game for so long.

 Q. How is your general fitness?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, no, I feel good. I feel really good. So I'm pretty much just trying to get in the best position that I can for Aussie Open next week, and having another match today is good. 
 I've still got doubles here, which is more court time for me. So, that's yeah, pretty much all I'm focusing on. Just trying to, yeah, hit as many balls and play as many practice sets and feel as good as I can for Aussie Open.

 Q. What are you most pleased with at this stage of your comeback? 
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, like I'm hitting the ball okay. Like I really do feel like I'm hitting the ball all right. 
 Yeah, I just -- obviously it's gonna take time, and I have to make sure that I'm just patient. Probably a little bit impatient in terms of wanting to be where I was, and I've been out of game for a year. So I know I've just gotta stay patient and make sure that, yeah, I just work on the things I need to work on and take my time and know that I'll get there. I've just gotta keep working at it every day and try and get back to where I was.

 Q. Suppose going down to Melbourne Park, fond memories. I imagine you'll get a boost just by being there. 
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, it's always good to be down there. It's a great atmosphere. It's good to be down there. Obviously I've had some great times down at Melbourne Park and I like the courts there and I always feel good there. 
 So, yeah, once the draw comes out and I see who I play, yeah, this week I'm just gonna still keep hitting a lot of balls. I've done that in the past few weeks. 
 I've really only just before the playoffs have really been hitting. So only the last five weeks I've really been hitting a bit, so just can't expect to be where I was. 
 But, yeah, leading up the to Australian Open, the Australian Open is obviously the goal now. Just gonna try to do everything that I can to feel as good as I can leading into that.

 Q. The loss today doesn't shake your confidence at all?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: I just can't allow it to. I could if I wanted it to. But, I mean, this girl's been playing and come through qualifying and is a top hundred player and I'm not yet. I've just gotta know that I've gotta keep working hard and I've gotta keep going at it every day to get back to where I was. I know I'll eventually get back there. Yeah, just be patient with it.

 Q. Pain-free in the shoulder?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, which is great. Yeah, pain-free in my shoulder and foot, so those being two things of the year that's really troubled me. It's good to be injury-free for a change. 
 Just gotta, yeah, keep working hard and keep focusing on getting better each day and look forward to playing at the Australian Open next week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT