AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2009
Casey Dellacqua
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







D. HANTUCHOVA/C. Dellacqua
  7-6, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Is that the one that went begging a little?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, I had a lot of opportunities in that match. I didn't consolidate when I this set points in that first set, and points to go back to 5-All in the second.
 Yeah, I guess a few opportunities. I didn't consolidate on some of them.

 Q. What was the most disappointing to you tonight? Did you feel fluent? 
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, I felt pretty good out there. Yeah, I guess just disappointing I didn't consolidate on those points. I mean, that can change the match. Obviously if I got that first set, even get back in the second, you just never know. 
 The match is never over. Yeah, I guess just disappointing that those few points, yeah, I guess I just wasn't able to get one of them. Yeah, could have changed the match. But, anyway. 

 Q. Did you call the trainer early?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, just for a few painkillers, just for the pain. Just a bit sore. I've played a lot of tennis over the last few weeks. I've loaded it up pretty much. 
 But it's okay. Just a pit of painkillers. 

 Q. How different was the experience from what you've had previously?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: No, it was good out there. It was fun. The crowd was great. Obviously, I didn't come out with a win tonight, but I love playing out on that court. 
 It's tough when you play a seed first up. I mean, I wasn't going to be seeded, so it's always tough. You never know the draw you're going to get. Obviously Daniela likes playing here also. 
 I think I gave myself a pretty good shot. I had the best pretty much preparation I could have had. Didn't go my way tonight. But certainly I've got a lot more tournaments to play this year. I'll get back on the court and keep trying to improve. 
 Yeah, hopefully I'll have wins again soon.

 Q. Was the buildup harder to handle or easier this year?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, no, it was okay actually. Yeah, it was pretty good. I felt pretty good leading into the event. I obviously had some great matches in doubles in Sydney. So the week, I was playing a lot up there. 
 Just came here on Saturday afternoon. Had a good couple days' practice. Was ready to go for tonight. Had a nice relaxing day today. So, yeah, preparation was great.

 Q. The shoulder still concerning you?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, I mean, this is routine post match, I guess. I always ice my shoulder. It's just something I think I'm probably going to have to do for the rest of my career. 
 Shoulder, it's not a problem at the moment. It's one of those things, yeah, I've been looking after, doing all the right rehab, doing everything I possibly can to be able to play.
 Yeah, it gets a little bit sore. Like I say, I've had a lot of matches and loaded it up a bit. It's something, yeah, I'm going to have to really keep an eye on, keep concentrating on making sure I do all the right rehab and icing so that I have longevity in the sport. 

 Q. In terms of percentages, does it put you off 5%, 10%?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, maybe a little bit. Maybe a fraction. Which I think when you're playing someone like Daniela, you can't afford to have little things. 
 But I had to deal with it. I had to kind of get over it and just keep playing. I think if any player walks out on the court feeling a hundred percent with probably no niggles, it's probably good. 
 Just one of those things where it's a little bit niggly. Took a few painkillers. I think that helped. I was able to get through the match. 
 But, yeah, a few times there I felt a little bit of pain, yeah. 

 Q. Are you as fit as you could be? Do you feel a good way that way? Has it injured your preparation much?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Well, I mean, I had a fair bit of time off. I finished right after the US Open and didn't play right through till almost the beginning of December. So I had a big chunk of time off. 
 In saying that, I've hit a lot of tennis balls. I've had the perfect preparation. I did everything I possibly could to get out there and play tonight as best as I could. That's what I did. I went out there. I came close, but I didn't get up with a win. 
 I mean, I've done everything I possibly can. Like I said, I'll get on the practice court again. I've got 25 more tournaments to play for the rest of the year. 
 Yeah, I've got to get back on the court, keep working hard, and keep improving all the things I need to work on and get ready for tournament and tournament.

 Q. So what happens in the future now? What's next? How will you need to manage it?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, obviously the focus for me now will be the doubles here at the Australian Open. I'm playing with Francesca. That will be my main focus. I've had a lot of good doubles success last year. I want to try to keep that up. 
 Then obviously post Australian Open we have Fed Cup, which is something back in Perth, which is something I know all of us girls are striving to do really well at. Then obviously I set my schedule up. I keep working hard. I've done a lot of hard work in the past and it's always paid off, so that's what I'll be doing. 
 I'll make sure I'm out there, keep working hard, keep working on the things I need to do, and I'm sure it will pay off eventually.

 Q. What was going through your mind when it was tiebreak point after point after point? 
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yes, I mean, I had a lot of opportunities. I had a lot of set points. I don't know how many I had in that first set. I had a lot of set points. When I went up to the line, I mean, I played a good point. Daniela hit a good down-the-line passing shot, which was tough. 
 But, yeah, I mean, I just went up to the line when I was serving and tried to pick targets and tried to think about what I was going to do that point. She came up with some good shots. I probably made a few errors as well. 
 So, yeah, it's just one of those things that, yeah, a few points here and there. But, uhm, yeah, it was a shame I didn't consolidate one of those points. I was just trying to be positive and trying to win just one of them. 

 Q. The two of you had never met before. How did that have a bearing on how you played tonight?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: No, not too much. I've seen a lot of Daniela play in the past. I had a bit of an idea obviously how she was going to play. I guess I got out there and figured out a few patterns of play she liked. 
 Yeah, I was just trying to do my best to get my feeling and stay relaxed. But I felt good out there. Like I said, the crowd was great. Unfortunately I couldn't get up tonight. It was a close match. 
 But, yeah, unfortunately I didn't come off with the win. But I'll be back again next year obviously and trying to improve on this year. 

 Q. Despite the loss, do you feel well-placed and a better year than last year?
 CASEY DELLACQUA: Yeah, absolutely. Last year was kind of a steppingstone for me just in terms of experiencing -- I played a full calendar year on the tour. Unfortunately I had to finish a little bit early because of the shoulder. 
 But I played a full calendar year and consistently had great results throughout the year. I think 2008 was just a real learning, steppingstone for me. This year I feel like I'm a lot more mature and I know what to expect, I guess. 
 Yeah, I think 2009 is going to be really successful. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT