AEGON CLASSIC
June 13, 2014
Casey Dellacqua
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 C. DELLACQUA/K. Date‑Krumm
  6‑1, 6‑0 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations.   Two out of two today.   
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Looks like you're going to have a career‑high ranking on Monday.   
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Talk us through that a bit.   Does that really vindicate your decision to focus on singles this past year?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah.   I've had number 39 in my head for a long time‑‑ actually not for a long time.   Just after the Australian Open I had like a top 100 goal.   
Then I kind of reset some goals after the Australian Open.   My career high was 39, but that was back in 2008.   I think I said the other day, I feel like I'm a completely different, better, well‑rounded you player than I was back then.   
So I felt like I could beat that ranking.   Yeah, it will be nice to see the rankings coming out.   Obviously I've got to finish off this week first and that all will take care of itself.   
Yeah, it's nice to know that all my hard work is paying off.   
   
 Q.   Back in 2008, what were your goals when you were sort of floating around 39, 40, 50 in the rankings compared to what your goals are now?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, you just have a bit of a more clear vision of what you want to get from the sport now.   I play purely for the enjoyment of the game and I love the game.  
Back then sometimes, I don't know, you feel like you're just playing because sometimes you're good at it and sometimes it's just kind of...  
But now I thoroughly enjoy my sport.   After having a couple surgeries and time out of the game, I really do, I feel like I'm out here and I just want to finish my career saying that I did everything I could.   Whatever that got me to, it got me to, but at least I had a really good crack.   
I think I'm doing that now.   So, yeah, I feel proud of where I'm at.   It's great to be in another semifinal of a WTA.   I would like to go one further and hopefully make a final.   That would be pretty special, too.  
But, yeah, I'm playing really good and I'm enjoying it.   Had a really good week here in Birmingham, so it's been good.  
   
 Q.   So 39 was on the hit list and make another semis was on the hit list.   Is there anything else beyond that you're looking to achieve?   
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Not really.   Like I said, at the end of the day, I just want to finish just saying I got what I could out of this sport.  
If I lost first round for the next 12 months but did the work that I needed to do, what can you do?   I just want to know within myself I gave everything I had.   That's what I'm doing now.   Doing all the right things and doing what it takes I think to be one of the best, you know.   
So if that's 39 or whatever number that is, but, yeah I'm certainly doing the right things to get the best out of myself.  
   
 Q.   You last played Barbora a couple years ago.   You remember much about that match?  
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, played her in Prague, her home country; had a win there.   Haven't seen too much of her play, but she's obviously had a great week.  
When you get to the latter stages of a grass court tournament and you've had matches under your belt, the matches, you know, they get tougher and the girls feel more comfortable.   
Yeah, I expect a tough match tomorrow.   I'm sure she does from me, too.   It'll hopefully be a good match, and like I said, hopefully I can go one better and make a final.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT