AEGON CLASSIC
June 12, 2014
Casey Dellacqua
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. DELLACQUA/S. Stosur
  2‑6, 6‑2, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   Well done today.
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Thanks.

Q.   Where do you think the match turned for you?   Looked pretty much a reversal start of the second set.
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, I think I just found my feet a little bit out there.   I played on Court 1, and that court feels just a bit bigger.   Got to hone in our your serve and find your bearings a little bit.
Just wanted to not panic and not get too stressed and just think, Okay, well, first set is over, but the match is a long ways on.   You know, I think I started to read Sam's serve better and make as many returns as it didn't matter if they were winners, I just wanted to make them and make her keep playing ball after ball.
Yeah, I think in the end I just competed well and fought hard and came out with the win.

Q.   Eleven years since you last played each other.   Bound to be changes.   Anything in particular stand out today?
CASEY DELLACQUA:   I mean, we've practiced heaps together over the years.   I think even though we haven't played a professional match, I think we know each other's games inside out.
I think today it was about who could come out and put the game plan and execute the best.   For a set there, Sam was playing great and finding her matchup to me really well.
I was able to turn it around, which I'm really proud that I was able to do that today.

Q.   Was there a particular turning point?   Is there one point you can kind of specifically say that's where the match went your way?
CASEY DELLACQUA:   I think when I she served maybe two double faults early on in the second set for me to go 2‑Love, I think it was.   I just felt like the pressure that I was doing by making a lot of returns was making her think about her serve just that little bit more, hence maybe‑‑ maybe.   I'm until the sure.
You know, I just felt like I was getting a lot of opportunities in the first set to break serve, but wasn't consolidating.   So once I got that break and kind of got up in the set and had the momentum, I think that just really helped me.

Q.   It's very different match, isn't it, against Kimiko Date, obviously.   What sort of mindset do you have going from a player with huge weapons, big serve and big forehand, to a player who will really sort of work you around the court.
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah, it's going to be a completely different matchup.   I've played Kimiko numerous times and played actually a lot of doubles with her and been quite successful with her.   She's a good friend and probably one of the most inspirational players on tour today, hence her age being out there today playing.
It's actually quite amazing to see her out there.   She moves probably better than any of the girls on tour.   I know that I'm going to have to play well and execute really good tomorrow.   Hopefully I can serve well as well and keep my momentum happening.

Q.   Especially for Sam, and I guess a little bit for Kimiko too, how hard is it when you're friendly with somebody off court to switch into battle mode?   Does it take a little bit of time to get used to that?
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Yeah.   I think it's definitely one of those things that I found, you know, I had to settle a bit into that match today.   Sam and I are very good friends.   We've played years and years on tour.   I've known her since I was 15.   I love seeing her do well.   Just never had the opportunity to play her.
But, yeah, once we get out on court we both obviously want to win and we put our best foot forward.   At the end of the day, that's all we both want to do.
Yeah, so it is a little bit difficult.   Once you get out there, you just have your opponent and go for it.

Q.   How much more belief do you have now compared to maybe this time last year about your game?
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Oh, so much more.   This time last year I was playing Wimbledon quallies next week.   Obviously doing well in doubles with Ash, but my singles game ‑‑ US Open last year I was like 230 or something in the world; I'm 43.   So it's been a really quick progression.
But once I made that decision that I wanted to commit to playing singles, pretty much after US Open I had a real serious think about it.   I've really worked hard and I've done everything I possibly could to get the most out of myself, my body.
Yeah, the belief when you do the work, that's definitely there purely from, yeah, doing the hard yards.

Q.   Just one last one.   Everyone is getting asked this today.   World Cup starts tonight?   Are you going to be watching?
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Who is playing?

Q.   Brazil‑ Croatia.
CASEY DELLACQUA:   Okay.   I probably won't watch it.   No, I'll be watching with interest when Australia plays and stuff.   I can't say I'm the biggest soccer/football fan, but I'll be cheering for Australia.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT