DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN
July 7, 2019
Cormac Sharvin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sum up today.
CORMAC SHARVIN: Pretty frustrating to be honest.  I felt like I didn't play much different than I had the first three days.  I just missed it in the wrong side too many times.  But all in all it's a pretty good week.  It's a step in the right direction for sure.  It shows that I can compete out here, so just need to get out here as soon as possible I guess.
I think my confidence has been pretty high, but yeah, that's definitely going to boost that a little.
Q. When you look back at this week, what are you proud of the most?
CORMAC SHARVIN: It's probably my first time being in contention in one of the Rolex events on The European Tour, actually, so I'm just proud of the way I handled myself on and off the golf course this week.
Q. Sum up today for us.
CORMAC SHARVIN: A bit of a mixed bag.  Pretty frustrating.  I didn't play much different to what I had done in the first three days.  I just got off to a bad start.  Managed to pull it back and then just missed it a couples of times on the wrong side at the start of the back nine.  Made a few bogeys.
Yeah, I felt like I fought back pretty well from the start and handled myself pretty well out there today.
Q. How pleased are you with the way you played overall this week in a very high-profile event?
CORMAC SHARVIN: Yeah, I'm really happy.  I've played better.  I think that's the thing for me.  Like I probably haven't had everything this week, so for me to be able to compete, not having everything, it shows that I can stay out here.
Q. Is that what you've proved to yourself this week; that you think you belong on The European Tour?
CORMAC SHARVIN: Yeah, for sure.  I think I belong out here, and I think anybody who watched me would say the same.
Q. Biggest paycheck in your career?
CORMAC SHARVIN: Yeah, that's always a bonus I guess.
Q. How confident are you that that is a step in the right direction; that you can secure your European Tour card?
CORMAC SHARVIN: Yeah, I'm in a good position now on The Challenge Tour.  I'll probably play next week in France.  Hopefully I can just keep my form going and play well towards the end of The Challenge Tour year.
Q. Are you pleased the way you handled the pressure this week?
CORMAC SHARVIN: I think I handled the pressure really well.  It's something I worked on.  It's something I've worked on really hard off the course and I think it stood me in good stead this week playing with the best in the world.
Q. Big support?
CORMAC SHARVIN: Unbelievable.  The amount of time the hairs were standing on the back of my neck, and sometimes I close my eyes and open them and I'm like, am I dreaming, or is this real.
Q. Describe the roller coaster day.  Not that many pars really.
CORMAC SHARVIN: No, just made a lot of bogeys.  It's something I've done really well all week is keep bogeys off my card.  But seemed to miss it in the wrong spots.  I hit it short on one.  Putted out of the bunker on 3 and got up-and-down.  Left myself in tricky spots.  I just didn't really -- I mean, I haven't played much different.  I just missed in the wrong spots too many times today.
Q. A big cheque is coming your way.  Does it change some things for you?
CORMAC SHARVIN: Yeah, it's obviously a bit of comfort.  Like I always like to have a caddie, so that helps me get a caddie from now on.  I don't have to worry about -- caddies are expensive, but I don't have to worry about that side of things.  It's a big help for sure.
Q. What does it mean as a player who can play in a Rolex Series Event and compete like this?
CORMAC SHARVIN: Coming into this week, I knew that I could compete with these guys and I tried to keep myself in that mindset all week and I proved that I can this week.
Q. Pádraig Harrington was quite complimentary.  He sees in you a lot of very good game and a very good head.  Is this a big step in the road to you becoming a better player who will be on Tour next year and doing really good things?
CORMAC SHARVIN: Yeah, it's definitely a big steppingstone for me.  Obviously to compete with the best in the world is obviously going to give me confidence going forward.  In terms of my mindset, it's something that I've worked really hard on the last year or so, and to see it hold up on the biggest podium is great.
Q. The way the crowds reacted and the feeling of being in the big time, how was that for you?
CORMAC SHARVIN: I always seem to play well when I have a big crowd.  I don't know what it is.  Maybe I just focus a bit more.  I actually feel like I just want to show everyone how good I am.  It's nearly sort of like a showman's kind of way, a bit like a maverick.  I feel comfortable with the crowds and feel like I want to show them what game I have.
Q. The Challenge Tour, you're going to go back on to that and you're going to be the guy that did really well in the Rolex Series Event last week and they are going to be gunning for you because they are so talented out there.  Is there a come down from this to get that Challenge Tour Top 15 position and make sure you have your main Tour card next year?
CORMAC SHARVIN: I think it's a great step for me to get Top 15 on The Challenge Tour.  If I can compete with the best in the world, I mean, I can definitely win on The Challenge Tour.  There's nothing to stop me winning a few times this year and securing my card pretty early and maybe coming out here earlier than normal.
Q. Has this week been a game changer for you?
CORMAC SHARVIN: Yeah, I think for my profile, definitely.  I've played great golf this week under high intensity pressure.  It's a great step in the right direction.
Q. And when you've made mistakes, you bounced back and you battled?
CORMAC SHARVIN: I think that shows the work I've done off the course in terms of staying patient and not letting shots get me down.
Yeah, I just tried to stay really patient and take the next shot as it came.  I got unlucky a few times today and I tried to concentrate on the next shot and I think I've done that really well.
Q. The week, the course, it's been brilliant and you're top Irishman.  You must be very proud.
CORMAC SHARVIN: Yeah, to be top Irishman this week is an honor for me.  There's some of the best players, like Shane Lowry is Top-50 in the world and there's a lot of good players in Ireland, so to be top Irishman is great.
Q. Your Tour card is obviously the next goal and to do well on The Challenge Tour.  Surely you'll have huge confidence of doing that now?
CORMAC SHARVIN: Yeah, I already had huge confidence of getting my card this year.  This is only going to add to that and hopefully I can kick on now and kick on on The Challenge Tour and get off The Challenge Tour as soon as possible and get out competing with these guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT