DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 20, 2014
Sorana Cirstea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







C. WOZNIACKI/S. Cirstea
  6‑1, 6‑2

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   If you would just like to give us your reaction to the result today.   Obviously very disappointing. 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yes, of course.   I went into the match with maybe higher expectations, but all credit to Caroline.   She played great today.   I think she played one of the best matches I have ever played against her.   Very solid.   Quite aggressive from the start.   She should definitely deserve this win. 
I didn't really get a chance to get fully into the match.   I was missing a lot today.   I was quite slow, as well.   So of course it did not go as I hoped for, but it's a learning process, and we say sometimes you win, sometimes you learn.   I'm going to try to work harder after this loss.

Q.   Was the turnaround difficult?   Obviously playing in the evening, going into the afternoon in a short space of time. 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Definitely.   I actually haven't played a day match since Australia, so it's been more than a month.   I have actually played Pattaya only night session, then one Fed Cup indoors, Doha only night sessions, here only night session. 
So I was actually quite ‑‑ from the beginning I was struggling to actually see the ball, and I was not getting the timing right, but I still don't think that was the key factor. 
Maybe I could have started better, but I still think I was missing too much, I was a little bit slow.   No, as I said, all credit to her.   It's her win.

Q.   Just a reflection on your tournament.   Obviously you beat Errani, a seeded player.   You played very well yesterday.   How do you think your game is generally?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yes, I think it was a positive week.   I had actually two good wins against Vinci and Errani.   Both are top 15 and top 10 players. 
I think it's been a good week.   I have been getting better from week to week this year, which is nice to see, because it took me a little bit to get the rhythm.
But I think it's starting to get better.   As I said, you know, today was a bad day, but I'm not going to forget all of the positive things that happened this week.

Q.   You're in a good place for the hard court season in America, a nice buildup block to move on?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yes, definitely.   Now I have about 10 days or even more, maybe around two weeks of good practice, and then going to Indian Wells and Miami with a positive head and clear mind.   I think that's very important.

Q.   What do you like about this tournament?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I always come and am happy every single time I come here, because they treat the players so nicely.   Everyone is so friendly.   They try to accommodate us as best as possible. 
It's just so easy for us, the hotel, it's on‑site or the other way around.   It makes a huge difference. 
I always say you can see how well the tournament is doing by looking at the draw, and this I think it's one of the strongest draws out of the whole year.   So it's definitely a tournament that knows how to treat their players. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT