ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 11, 2013
Sorana Cirstea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. WILLIAMS/S. Cirstea
  6‑2, 6‑0

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Tough one even from the first game.   She broke you, and then it seemed like you had a hard time just getting into the match. 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yes.   I actually think the start was not as bad as the score showed.   First three games I actually had really good chances in all of them, so I could have been up 3‑Love.
Sadly I found myself I was down 3‑Love a little bit too quick.   Managed to get back, broke her, got to 3‑2.   Was an important game at 4‑2.   I had 40‑15 kind of easy ball and also to get to 4‑3. 
So I know the score, it seems quite tough, but there were moments when I felt the game was closer than it seemed.

Q.   So then the last couple matches you were able, against Kvitova and Li, you were able to get back into it.   Why weren't you able to get back into it today?   Did she just play at such a high level that it was impossible?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I actually think she got better as the match went along.   I missed a few chances, you know, the beginning of the set.   I think today I was not able to pick up my game as I was in the past few matches.
I actually played probably the best game of the match at a set and 5‑Love down, but I mean, all credit to her.   She was, as I said also in my speech afterwards, there is a reason why we have a ranking and why she is on top of that ranking. 
She's the No. 1 player, and she's proving that every single time she's stepping on the court.

Q.   What makes her such a great player to you?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   You know, she knows when to raise her level.   She knows when it's enough to play and when she has to step it up.
She serves very well the big points, you know.   It's never easy to play against her, but as I said, I think I could have done better job today.
But for me it's been a really positive week, and I'm going to take everything that's been going well with me to the next tournament.

Q.   You had a great crowd support out there today.   Have you been surprised by how many fans you have here?   Do you think it helped you along this week?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I was surprised to see how many Romanians that were out there and how many flags, and everyone was wearing yellow T‑shirts. 
It was incredible atmosphere and made me feel like home.   The whole time when they were screaming, they were just like always supporting me and saying positive things.   It was very, very nice to see, and I'm very grateful for their support. 
I'm looking forward to come back here, because it's been an amazing week.   Hopefully I can keep this going.

Q.   I think during the match Darren came on, and he said that you turned everyone into believers this week.   Do you think you kind of turned yourself into a believer, too, knowing you can beat these top players?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Um, I did.   Actually I always had the belief, because I knew if I have a good day I can beat anyone, you know, but it was a matter of me having a good or bad day, which now it's more about every single day when I go on court, you know, even if it's not a good day I try to find a way to win.
Yes, it's a matter of believing in myself, and I think I have made some great steps in the past weeks, you know.   I have played semis, quarters here, final, so I'm looking forward to everything that's going to come up also to the US Open.

Q.   You got quite emotional at the end and during the speech.   Was it more like the size of the moment getting to you, or were you just upset with the result?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Usually I'm quite emotional, but of course I was a little bit disappointed because I wanted to play better.   I knew I could play better.
It was mixed feelings out there, you know.   But I think even probably if I would have won today I would still be crying (laughter). 
I didn't expect to be that emotional, but that's me, you know.   I hope I gave everyone a nice week even if I didn't play my best today.   Still hopefully they enjoyed the tennis. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT