ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 10, 2013
Sorana Cirstea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. CIRSTEA/L. Na
  6‑1, 7‑6

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   The other day you said you were a bit of a slow starter sometimes.   Today is only took you 21 minutes to win the first set.   What felt like the difference today?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yes, I would have said I am a slow starter, but as I have proved this week, things are changing (smiling.)
I think that's one of the things I have been working on as well, and that was one of the key things today.   My coaches told me, You have to start well. 
I'm very, very glad I got into the match and just took that first set quite fast.

Q.   You were down 4‑1 in the second, and then at 4‑3 you called for Darren.   He comes out again.   Somehow your level picked up.   Just talk about what he said. 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yeah, I was down 4‑1 second set, but it was only a break.   Two games I had 40‑15, 40‑Love, so I could have been up 3‑2, you know, and serving.
So that went a little bit fast.   Called Darren at 4‑1.   The same thing.   He just made me realize that it's not ‑‑it's about the process, about getting better, improving, so I shouldn't have any pressure, I just need to do the same things as I have done in the first set, you know. 
He's amazing.   I mean, both of these victories are his in a way.

Q.   Can you talk about first two match points.   You appeared to be nervous, or did you just strike the ball badly?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Actually, first match point I think I played it quite well and I was aggressive.   Just went a little bit out.
The second one I did play it way too safe.   Then she played two good points.   So it went very fast. 
Maybe I should have taken a little bit more time, you know, and just regroup a little bit better those match points.   But once I lost that game I was fine.   It was 6‑All and I forgot about those, and I was, like, Okay, let's try and get this tiebreak.
I think that's another big change for me, because maybe before I would get down on myself, which now I just try and focus every single point and I don't care so much what's just happen in the past.

Q.   So then just quickly on the tiebreak, I think you were 4‑1 down there, too, and you came back.   She had two double faults, but you played some good points there. 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yeah, even if I was down 4‑1, I still had the belief and still tried to focus on each point.   I think this kind of mentality is really helping me to take the pressure a bit off and to be able to be aggressive and take charge.   Because I know, for example, a player like Li Na, she's not going to give it to me. 
If I want to win this, I have to step it up.   This is one of the things that Darren said.   You know, she's not going to give it to you.   She's a top 5 player and that's why she's there, because she's doing the right things.
So if you want to win this, you have to earn it.   I had to win it on my terms.   I'm glad I finished in two.

Q.   It's been a few years since you were in a final.   Can you just talk about your approach with this new mentality facing high‑ranked players. 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yes, I'm not thinking so much of what was in the past now.   I'm just thinking of what's coming.   As I said, for me, every single match this week is like, Okay, just a new day, new match.   Doesn't matter who I beat the day before or what I have done, you know.
It's just another day where I have to get out there and do the things and show the work that I have put in.     So of course I'm really excited because, these are the moments you are working for.   I'm very looking forward to tomorrow's match.   It's going to be a very interesting final.

Q.   Obviously you don't know who your opponent is at this point, but just try to get a feel for it.   Any sense of lack or worry going into that, or is it full‑on confidence at this point?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Right now I have no worry.   When I'm going to wake up tomorrow, that's when I'm going to put my head towards the match, no? 
At the moment I'm still trying to enjoy this victory, because it's a good one for me.   I have worked hard for it, so I'm just trying to focus on that and do my recovery.   And when I'm going to wake up tomorrow, I'm going to start worrying about the final.

Q.   Would you say that this is sort of the best tournament run of your career at this point?   What do you feel sort of really made the difference this week?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Definitely.   This is probably the biggest tournament so far, but I think it's the start of something good, you know.   I have said already many, many times I was working hard before I came on the hard court season.   I had a strong week in Stanford and Washington.   I'm continuing this form here.
So it's not coincidence, no?   Everything is based on hard work.   Everyone can see that I have been doing some great steps in the right direction.
I'm just very excited to keep these things going and just make out of this mentality a habit.

Q.   Any special boost of confidence after you fought off the two match points against Caroline in the first round?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Definitely.   I mean, you know, sometimes it's so little, the difference between making it and not making it.   It's so, so little, especially at this level.   Everyone is playing so great, and especially this year where everyone has improved so much, so you really have to be there every match.
Look at this.   I could have been out in the second round or in Cincinnati getting ready for my first round, and here I am playing final, you know.
So it's the difference between making it and not making it.   It's very, very small.   That's why now I'm trying to focus on each point, each match, and just try to be in the moment because that's what matters the most.

Q.   Quickly moving forward, just break down what you'd have to do more or less against either Radwanska or Serena who are clearly different players. 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yes, definitely different players.   So at this stage I don't know who I'm going to play.   Of course it's gonna be a different kind of game against them but, you know, the main thing is I still have to stay serving well, being aggressive, trying to be in control, going in the court with good mentality.
I mean, no matter who is on the other side, I still have to do the same things on my side.

Q.   I don't know if you were aware of this, but yesterday following her quarterfinal win, Li Na was asked about the prospect of facing Petra Kvitova in the semifinal and not you.   Do you see that as a sign of disrespect?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   No, definitely I don't see that as a sign of disrespect.   I think it's a normal thing, of course.   When you look at the draw, I came into this tournament as an outsider.   Every single match I was playing a seeded.   And of course when you look on the paper, of course Petra was favorite.
I think it has nothing to do with disrespect, you know.   It just has to do with facts and reality, and I think that's actually a normal question.   So I don't mind at all about that. 

Q.   You have worked with Darren a few times before.   Are you guys just doing what you usually do, or is there something special about this week?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I have been working with Darren for six years, and I was the first player he ever coached, the first player that ever ‑‑the first girl that he ever coached coming into that adidas player development team, so we go way back.
For us, you know, like everyone has been talking about this on‑court coaching, but for us the discussions are normal.   It's like on a day‑to‑day basis, but people actually get to see it only now.
It's very rewarding to see everything that has happened this week, because he's been next to me in my good times, in my bad times.   He's been there when I was 20 in the world, 100 in the world.   So he's been there all the way.   I'm very happy to give him some good results, as well, not just headaches.
Also, I want to thank my coach Victor, because they work great together.   They help each other and they help me.   That's the most important. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT