ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 8, 2013
Sorana Cirstea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. CIRSTEA/J. Jankovic
  6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Talk about your past 18 hours, what you finished last night almost at midnight, right? 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yeah, actually left here quarter to 1:00 and got back to the hotel 1:30.

Q.   Another touch match against Jelena today.   That's got to be two of your best back to‑back wins in a short period, no?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yeah, definitely.   I think I made a huge step forward today by backing up the win from yesterday, because I think this was one of the issues in the past.   I would have a good win but then couldn't really back it up.
Now I feel I'm more solid, and I'm taking   every match the same and not focusing so much, Oh, I just had a big win.   I'm like, Today is a new day, new match.   I just have to do the same things I'm doing every single day. 
This kind of mentality, it's helping me. Yeah, so far it's a good tournament.

Q.   Can you talk about last night?   She had two match points on you, 5‑4, and you came back and managed to win that.   You know her well.   That must have been a difficult victory overall, no?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yeah, I know her well.   She knows me well.   We have played I think a lot of times together, also trained a lot together because of the adidas team.   We have a very good relationship. 
We always have tough matches, and last night was probably one of the toughest.   And, yeah, I was just two match points down, and from there on actually I feel like I kind of won the match because from there I won 15 straight points.
So I kind of started to take charge, you know, and be in control of the points.   I feel I earned that victory yesterday.   I fought very hard for it.
So it was a very good win for me from all areas.

Q.   Physically how did you feel when you woke up this morning knowing, you know, you had a long match, you must have been tired.   Were you sore?   And then you also know Jelena can play for a long time.   She gets a lot of balls back. 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I actually woke up, and I was very surprised nothing was hurting, nothing was sore, so I was like, Oh, this is a new feeling (smiling). 
As I said, I have worked really hard the past weeks, and before starting the hard court season I had two great weeks of training.   Physically I feel much better.   The fact that after playing three hours yesterday, today I was actually fine, and I knew Jelena is a tough player and she's going to make me run a lot.   I was like, Okay, I have no problem.   That's why I'm here, no? 
That gives me a good feeling because I know I'm doing the right things and I can see the improvement.   Of course when you see the improvement and it's kind of ‑‑it's rewarding to know that you've put the work in.   Now you get back.

Q.   Can you just talk about your next match.   It's Kvitova or Stosur. 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yeah, both are tough players.   Now I'm in quarterfinals.   No matter who you play it's going to be tough.   I have played them both.   Won against both; lost against both. 
It's going to be very interesting, but I'm really looking forward.   And as I said, I will try to do the same I did till now:   just focus on my game and just go in with a positive attitude and mentality.

Q.   You mentioned you had two weeks of training.   Was that in LasVegas with Gil or elsewhere?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yes, yes, it was in Las Vegas with Gil Reyes and Darren Cahill.   I'm very lucky to have Darren with me here this week.   He makes a big difference.
Also he helps my coach Victor a lot.   I feel like we are very strong team together.   I'm very grateful, I have said many, many times, for everything they have done for me.

Q.   Darren is staying through the weekend?   He doesn't have to go to Montreal for TV, or he's doing TV there?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   No TV, only has to be Cincinnati.   So I am lucky.   I have him tomorrow as well, yes.

Q.   You mentioned how he helps your coach.   We were talking to Li today about, you know, her husband and her coach kind of at first not interacting.   Can you just talk about when someone comes in and maybe gives good advice, but it might have been different from what you have been told?   Do you have to fight it out in your head who's right, or do they decide to tell you one thing?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Well, for me, I'm working with Darren since I was 17 years old, and with the adidas team, it's been already six years.   They have been here next to me through different coaches and moments when I had coaches, moments when I didn't have coaches.
So they have always been for me.   For the past two years I'm having my Romanian coach Victor, and they have been doing great job in maybe helping him know me a little bit faster.   As I said, it's a really good team because we all communicate really well.   Of course I have my coach on a daily basis.   Only comes in for a few important weeks a year.
I'm really lucky to be able to be part of the adidas player development team.   I think it's a great concept, and definitely they have done amazing job.   I don't think I would be here without them.   I know I repeat myself, but I'm very grateful for everything they have done for me. 

Q.   Do you think you have matured enough to the point where maybe this year you can be, say, a top‑10 player or have top‑10 type of results?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I don't focus on that right now.   I'm focusing on improving and getting the things that I want. 
I don't have a goal in my head ranking‑wise.   I do have a goal in improving certain areas in my game that I know that I have plenty of room.   For me, this is also another good thing because I'm not thinking so much about the ranking.   I don't have that pressure on my shoulders.
So now I'm also discovering this, I'm enjoying more, and I'm learning more things about myself.   I think I grew up and matured along the way.   I have been through great times, tough times, and I'm happy that I had all those, because they helped me be stronger and just be a better person and also athlete. 

Q.   When things don't go your way during your matches, how do you overcome that?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Of course like tough times or most times things just don't go your way.   I have been getting better in this aspect, also, to just maintain my focus and not talk too much to my coach or complain too much.
This is another area where we have been trying to work on, you know, for me to build more structure than the things that I have to do.   I feel I have been getting better.
But of course there is still a long way to go, and, you know, I'm happy because I still have room to improve because I'm 27 right now in the rankings, and it's a good thing to know that, Oh, I can do much better than this. 

Q.   You just want to hit that ball really, really strongly.   Do you push yourself more, or does your coach push you more than you push yourself?   It just almost looks like you're pushing him. 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   We are a team, you know.   We know each other very well.   I think he knows by now when to step in, when to be a little bit more supportive, and we are working quite well together.   As I said, we have already been working for a while.
I have always been an aggressive player.   We have been trying actually to calm me down a little bit, you know, and build more discipline on the court and just stay on the plan.
I feel I'm getting better in that, and also with my attitude and everything.   So there are very positive things in my tennis and my life that are happening right now, and I'm very excited, because I'm taking everything as a challenge.   So I think it's a good way for me to approach things.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT