AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2012
Sorana Cirstea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







S. CIRSTEA/S. Stosur
  7‑6, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Were you disturbed by your hair?   You have beautiful long hair.   Sometimes this caused a little problem or not?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I think was the wind, not my hair actually (smiling).   Kind of was blowing everything around. 
No, I don't realize what I do a lot of things on the court, so they just became habits. 

Q.   How big a win is this for you? 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I mean, of course it's a big win, you know, but I'm staying with the feet on the ground because I know today I went on the court, no pressure, she had the pressure.   I had nothing to lose.   So I think that kind of made me just go out there and enjoy it. 
But now things are changing a little bit.   Now people are going to expect me to win next match.   I'm just trying to enjoy today and try and prepare the next match. 

Q.   When you're on the other side of the net, can you tell when an opponent is really struggling mentally or with their confidence as opposed to just their physical game?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Not really.   I think when I'm playing, I'm focusing a little bit more on my side of the court.   I don't really see many things. 
But at some points toward the end of the match, I was getting a little bit tight as well.   I think it was a very important match for both of us.   I'm just happy I got the win today. 

Q.   You know that Sam is loved here in Australia.   Do you think she was stressed today?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I mean, of course, definitely.   Sam, she's a great player.   She just won US Open.   She had a lot of pressure on her shoulders coming out today. 
I just tried to play my best.   I didn't really think too much who was on other side.   I had my tactical plan already in my mind.   You know, it worked today.

Q.   What did you find the crowd like?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I actually enjoyed it.   I didn't really feel it against me or something.   I actually enjoyed it.   It helped me.   I'm not sure how, but it really got behind me.   I know I used it in my favor.

Q.   What was your plan?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I think that's between me and my coach (smiling). 
But, you know, I went on the court with some really good points in my head.   I was focusing on serving well, just trying to stay aggressive.   Every time I'm playing aggressive and I'm in control of the game, then it's going my way.   So I was happy I could do that today. 

Q.   When you speak about a coach, you had an Italian.   Do you have a new one?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   Yes, I was working with Sanguinetti I think for two months.   It was like a trial period.   Unfortunately it didn't really work out.   You know, I went my way; he went his way. 
Right now I'm coached by a Romanian together with a hitting partner. 

Q.   Not the beautiful man with brown hair who was very happy when you scored a point?   That's not the coach?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   That's my coach and my hitting partner, as well.   He's from Romania.   I started to work together like for a month and a half.   I was home in the off‑season. 
I think it really gave me a lot of stability to be home.   I really worked hard.   I came to Australia ready. 

Q.   You were talking about the wind.   You would think with center court it would be quite shielded from the wind.   When you were down there, was it gusting and blowing?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   It was actually pretty windy.   I was practicing in the morning, and it was like at 9:00 already windy. 
Today when I went out there it was hot, which actually it's tough, because I came from one month and a half playing indoors.   For me it takes a little bit to get used to. 
I think I handled all the conditions well today.   Usually I don't mind playing with the heat and the wind.   Today, no, I didn't think about those thing too much and just played my game. 

Q.   Is it more difficult to come from Romania and become a tennis player, or the past champions like Tiriac and Nastase somehow helped the tennis to grow?   Do you have any help in your country by the Federation or someone else?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   No.   I had zero help in my career.   Everything was because of my parents.   I met Mr. Tiriac only one time in my life when I played quarterfinal in French Open, and also Mr. Nastase a few times. 
Everything was my parents were behind me.   I was just hard work.   Because coming from a country like Romania where you have no conditions, we have three hard courts in our whole country, you really have to fight and get where you want to be. 
Things are maybe twice harder, but, you know, it makes you appreciate it more when you have them. 

Q.   Your parents are not a customer of the Tiriac Bank? 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I don't think I keep my money at that bank. 

Q.   Anne Keothavong tweeted to you, Congratulations, you don't need big muscles to spank the ball like her.   What do you think that means? 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   She's a little sweetheart.   I'm very good friends with her.   Tennis is such an individual sport, and what works for me maybe is not working for Sam or for Anne.   Everyone has their own rhythm, their own way of practicing. 
I'm having my style.   This is how I'm build.   Until now I think I know my game a little bit.   You know, I'm just doing my things without thinking too much what the other players are doing. 

Q.   What was your reaction when you found out that you are going to play Stosur in the first round?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I'm not sure.   I had actually no feelings, you know.   I haven't saw the draw.   I think my mom told me that I'm playing Stosur.   I'm like, Okay, you know, it's fine. 
Then it was actually funny.   Everyone kept talking about her, about the draw, looking forward.   I would get in my room, open the TV, they would say, What is the draw, everything. 
I was just going out there, practicing every day with clear things in my head.   Didn't think too much about what was coming. 
You know, it went well today. 

Q.   There's a lot of focus on German players.   There's other players from Romania.   What do you think that means for Romanian tennis?   Do you work together well?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I think it's amazing.   I think we are five girls in top hundred.   Coming from a country where we have no condition, I have no idea how we are all here. 
Probably we pushed each other.   Like I had some results, then Monica thought, okay, you know, I could do it as well.   We're practicing together.   I think this is what's the main reason.   We didn't have any help. 
It's true now home like in the off‑season we're practicing a lot together.   I think it's actually good.   It gives us a good rhythm, good stability.   When we were on tour, we also try to push each other. 
I think it's good competition. 

Q.   Is there a reason why there are no men from Romania apart from Hanescu on the tennis courts? 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   I get this question a lot, why we have girls in top hundred and we only have Victor in top hundred in guys.   I actually don't know what to say. 
I mean, everyone came out individual.   Like I say, we had no support.   Everyone did their own things.   We were lucky it worked out in the end.   It's not like a recipe, like a success recipe, you have to do this and you will get there. 
I'm not sure why we have girls right now and not guys. 

Q.   No one seems to be playing like the other one? 
SORANA CIRSTEA:   We all play different.   We are like a rainbow. 

Q.   There is not a school?
SORANA CIRSTEA:   No.   It's no school.   Like I said, I think everyone has their own rhythm, own style.   Everyone is doing their own things.   It's a very individual sport, so you have to fight for yourself. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT