NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 25, 2008
Chauncey Billups
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: The thing is I don't want to be talking about it. The bottom line is I've got to play better, we've got to play better, and whether it's hurting, still hurting or not, I've still got to play better. I've still got to play through it. That's exactly what I intend on doing.

 Q. What's the mood, still bummed out or let it go or --
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: I think after a game like that you're mad, you're disappointed at the end of the game and through that night, but the next day is a new one, and you've got to wash it off, and you've got to dust it off of you because you can't let a game like that hurt you in the next game. So I think that's exactly where we are right now. We know we blew a great opportunity to really grab hold of the series, blew it, but we've done that a lot here for some reason, some strange reason. 
 We've got a game tomorrow that's a huge opportunity for us. 

 Q. You smirk about it, like this has happened before. Why? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: I can't tell you why, man. I can't tell you why, nor do I like it. I don't like it. But for whatever reason, we've done things like this a lot of times, and I hate it and a lot of the guys hate it. But it's who we've been. It's who we've been. We always find a way to work ourselves out of these kind of situations.

 Q. You've said that the hamstring is hurting you. How do you adjust? What do you do to be a smart player?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: You know what, in yesterday's game, I thought I just didn't really personally do a good job of leading, you know what I mean? That's not just shooting the ball and scoring the ball. I think just leading. I think the game got away from us early, and I think I didn't step up enough vocally when guys were missing coverages and when things wasn't going right. I think I didn't do a good job of stepping in and leading. 
 When I can't do the things that I'm accustomed to doing offensively, there have to be other ways to have presence out there, and I always do have that presence, but I thought I waited too late yesterday to step up and lead in that way.

 Q. Is it a fine line between wanting to help the team win and being prideful and not hurting the team if your hamstring is hurting you, compared to like Stuckey or whatever? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Well, I think at this juncture of the season, no, you can't sit out. I'm a leader of this team, one of the main leaders of this team, and no matter what's going on, I feel like I'm better out there on the court, you know what I'm saying? We've got a young guy Stuckey, who's playing great right now and I'm very proud of, that's having a great series and great playoffs, period. So we've got to find ways to keep him aggressive, keep him playing well, but at the same time I've got to play -- I know that I've got to play good for this team to win. I understand that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT