NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v CELTICS
May 21, 2008
Chauncey Billups
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: I'm willing to do whatever I've got to do.

 Q. What adjustments do you think you have to make on either side of the ball? I know you have to be aggressive offensively. 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Yeah. I don't think we did really too much of anything well enough, to be honest with you. I think we've got to be a lot more aggressive defensively, especially pick-and-rolls. At the point of attack of the pick-and-rolls I think we've got to be a lot more aggressive, especially with Paul. He played good and he's a great player, but I think it got a little too easy yesterday, and KG played well. 
 But they're great players; they're going to figure out a way sometimes to be effective. I think we've got to do a better job of making them work a lot harder than that.

 Q. How did you feel this morning as far as getting a good night's sleep and all that?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Yeah, I felt pretty good. Actually, this morning, getting up, coming over here, and of course I haven't ran on it yet, but I feel pretty good.

 Q. Safe to say you'll be more aggressive tomorrow night?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Yeah, I'm going to -- I probably will. I know with Rip and I not being aggressive and trying to score the ball, our chances, they go down a little bit. So I think that he and I both have to be a little more aggressive, and that's not necessarily taking shots but just getting into the teeth of the defense. You know they load up, you know they're going to be coming off on penetration, and being able to get guys easier shots and not fight the shot clock so much.

 Q. Did you guys have trouble with them making the reverse pass? Is that because you were a little bit slow?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Well, the rhythm was a little bit off, but even when they don't let you reverse the ball, then that's when you've going to take action, take seams. That's just something that once you see how teams are playing certain things, that's when you make certain adjustments. I think we'll do a better job of that tomorrow.

 Q. How badly did you want to get back on the court again?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Me personally? Oh, I definitely needed that game. I needed to play that game. I don't feel good about the outcome of it, but I feel good having been out there, having seen what it was going to be like in my first game, and I look to make improvements in the second game. 

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Well, I hope so. I hope so. I don't know yet, but I do hope so, and I will look to probably be a lot more aggressive and try to see if I can do that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT