NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 27, 2007
Chauncey Billups
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You look at the stats, you and Rip were 6-for-22, seven turnovers, five assists.  Do you feel if you guys come anywhere close to your normal production, you come out of here up 3-0 in the series right now? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  Yeah, I do.  With our team, the way that we play and the way that our plays are set up, if Rip or myself -- if Rip and me are having a bad night, at the same time it's going to be tough for us to win. 
 It doesn't happen often.  Sometimes one of us gets going.  Tonight neither one of us could really get going, and it was kind of funny, we still had chances to win the game.  We still had great, great chances.  You've got to tip your hats to them.  They played good.  They hit some tough, tough shots.  LeBron hit some tough step-backs, Gooden hit a good clutch shot.  You've got to tip your hats to them. 
 You're right, when myself and Rip are not having a good game at the same time, it makes it tough. 

 Q.  Could you talk about what they did defensively against you, if anything, that was different than maybe the first two games? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  You know what, nothing really.  There was nothing that they did differently tonight than they did the first two games.  I mean, they helped on me and did a good job with me the first two games.  There was no reason for them to really switch up, so I can't say that there's nothing that they did that was a change that made it effective.  They stuck to the same thing.  They just tried to trap, did the same kind of things that they did the first two games. 

 Q.  Will you talk about you and Rip not getting going, did you feel in the first two games more of it was what Cleveland was doing and tonight was just you having an off-night? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  Yeah, I think so.  And like I said, they played good.  I can't take nothing away from those guys.  Got to tip your hats to them tonight.  But when our top two scorers don't play very well and don't shoot very good, we're going to have tough chances to win.  Like I say, if either one of us gets going tonight, we're sitting up here talking about we're 3-0. 
 But we didn't, it is what it is, and we look forward to Tuesday. 

 Q.  Could you talk about Daniel Gibson.  He really seemed to have not a lot of points but definitely made an impact in this game tonight. 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  I thought Daniel Gibson was huge for them today.  He hit some big, big baskets.  He forced a couple turnovers.  I thought he played great.  He's a guy that they bring in, he spaces the floor because he can shoot it.  He can shoot it, and not only that, he can get to the basket and make plays.  He's a very good, young player.  He made an impact for their win tonight. 

 Q.  Did you consciously, you and Tayshaun, in the switches, when they switched, did you consciously go after him? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  Go after who? 

 Q.  Gibson.  You had a size advantage. 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  It's not really him, that's the play.  It doesn't matter who's guarding Tayshaun.  We feel like we can get him with his back to the basket eight, nine feet away.  It doesn't really matter who's guarding him, we feel it's an advantage.  We run the pick-and-roll just to see sometimes what they're going to do.  A lot of times they've been switching it with whoever it was, and sometimes the guard will go under.  We just want to see if they'll change up their coverages, and they didn't, they continued to switch it, and we throw it back to Tay and just try to let him make a play. 

 Q.  Do you have an idea in your mind what they're doing to stop you guys, or is this a situation where you have to go back tomorrow and look at the film and figure out something from scratch? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  You've got to look at the film.  You've got to look at the opportunities we had, why we couldn't take advantage of them.  Right now all I can do is rewind it in my mind, and that's a little different from sitting down and watching it on tape.  You know, I've got an idea, but we'll have to see.  I'll look at that tape, and sometimes my idea isn't the right one, until I look at that tape and we'll make a collective effort to judge what's going on. 
 I got an idea, but we'll see. 

 Q.  I know these are low-scoring games, but it seems more than a coincidence that other than Hamilton's first game I don't think you guys have had anybody score more than 15, 16 points in any game.  Do you have to find some way to get going? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  Yeah, we will.  We definitely have to find a way, either myself or Rip.  I think everybody else is playing well.  Tay bounced back and had a good game tonight.  Sheed was good, our bench was good.  It's myself and Rip that are lacking and not playing very great right now.  As the leader of this team, you've got to take that responsibility head on and say we've got to play better.  We've got to play better.  For us to have a chance, we've got to play better, and that's all it is.  That's all there is to it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT