NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
May 29, 2006
Chauncey Billups
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  The disparity in the fouls, how much did that hurt you guys tonight? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  Man, I thought it hurt us a lot.  We came out, closed the gap, got the game where it was kind of nip and tuck after that first half.  I thought it made a difference, but it is what it is, man. 
 Q.  You guys have been down 3-1 before but maybe not against a team of this caliber.  Talk about how much fight is left in you guys and the task at hand? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  We have a lot of fight.  We have been down 3-1 before, not against a team as good as the Heat, though.  They're playing great, man.  You've got to give it to them.  They're playing great ball.  They're great players, playing phenomenal.  The other guys are chipping in pretty well.  The bottom line is we're going home.  We're a great home team, and we've got to get one game.  We've got to look at it as a one-game series the rest of the way.  We've got to play one game and then think about the next one.  If we don't focus in on that one game, then the season will be over. 
 Q.  How much do you guys want to come back here?  You guys are flying back home, but it would be real nice to be back here for a Game 6? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  No question about it.  Like I said, we can't even think about Friday right now.  We've got to think about Wednesday, you know, because if we don't and we don't put everything we have into Wednesday, there won't be a Friday.  Our whole focus right now is to worry about Wednesday's game and just go out and leave everything on the court. 
 Q.  Ud has only had two points in the first two games combined and now he's had 10.  Is there anything he's doing differently and getting more looks? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  Well, he's getting looks.  He's getting looks by design.  We've got to help and double team on Shaq, and we have to give something up, and he's doing a good job of knocking those shots down right now, so he's just not open for no reason.  You know, we're helping, doing a lot of helping and scrambling.  He's the one that a lot of times is getting the looks.  He's doing a good job of knocking them down. 
 Q.  Talk about the start, how you guys got kind of rocked early.  I mean, for such an important game, how did that transpire?  They were just hot? 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  They came out, and I thought we came out and played with a lot of energy.  But they was hot.  They had it going, and we wasn't.  We was running our plays, running our sets, and the ball wasn't going down for us.  You look at how we played the second half, and we still ended up shooting 39 percent or whatever.  They came out and they just were on fire early in the game.  We thought that they would try to make a run early in the game, and with this being a big, big game and them being at home, and they did that, and we just couldn't come back until the second part of the second quarter when we closed the game.  We played as bad as we could possibly play and were down six at the end of the first half.  I think that's encouraging. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT