NBA FINALS: PISTONS v SPURS
June 19, 2005
Chauncey Billups
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've talked about how this team has played its best under the pressure-type situations, down a game, two games in San Antonio, what are you expecting from your guys come Tuesday?

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  I expect what we always do.  We're going to come out, our backs are definitely against the wall.  We're going into a hostile environment and, you know, it's win or go home.


Q.  The energy and the play of Robert Horry, was that something that caught you guys off guard?  You had him stopped in the fourth quarter, but he took over.

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  Yeah, he was good, that's what he does.  That's why he's got so many championships, because of his ability to be big in big games. He was big, man.  There's nothing that you really can say about him.  He was unbelievable.  He made all the right plays at the right times.


Q.  You had the jumper and then that drive to the basket in the closing seconds, can you describe both of those?

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  The jumper, I got a good look at it, just could not get down.  They got a little confused on the pick-and-roll and I just tried to make them pay. The layup, I took that, it was a play that we had drawn, it was a cross-court play but it didn't really develop, so I just tried to make a play, take it to the basket.  You know, didn't finish that one.


Q.  Rip also had two that didn't go, how do you guys look at those missed opportunities?

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  What do you mean?  If we got it up, we would have won.  We didn't, game is over.


Q.  Coach said a couple of minutes ago that before he thinks about going on the road to San Antonio, he has to get over this game.  Do you think from the players' point of view, is there something that he needs to do to help the players also find the right energy, or do you think maybe it's going to be more of a case that the players will help Larry get over this game?

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  It's 3-2.  If we can't have energy down 3-2, facing elimination, we shouldn't be there.


Q.  Last play, how drastically were they forcing you or denying the ball?

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  They did a good job.  We drew the play up to get it to Rip in the corner and we got what we wanted.  Just, you know, it was a tough shot to make.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT