NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: PISTONS v HEAT
June 2, 2005
Chauncey Billups
Tayshaun Prince
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  It seemed like you guys didn't match their energy, is that disheartening that you guys were not able to come out and do that? 

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  Yeah, I mean, it is, but, you know, like I said, man, they came to work.  They came to work.  We did too, but I mean they just got it going.  I mean, they got it going.  Guys that you don't expect to have big nights had big nights tonight, you know what I mean, and that was good on their part.

Q.  It seemed like there were some interesting calls out there, did you see the officials getting into your heads a little bit in the second quarter?

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  It was a little frustrating but I don't think they got into our heads.  We kind of prepared ourselves for it, so, you know, wasn't surprised.

Q.  Have you ever been through a series like this where game after game it seems that not only the calls are uneven but inconsistent?

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  No, I haven't.  No, I haven't.  After this series, I can say I've been in them all, you know what I mean. 

Q.  Now you're going back home down 3-2, you have to win, and you were in this situation last year in New Jersey where you won. 

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  We've been here before.  Obviously we have to come out and it's a one-game series, you've got to win one game and you can worry about whatever else.  You know, obviously you don't win one game and it's over, so it's a one-game series.  We're going back home where we feel very confident, and be ready for Saturday.

Q.  At the end of the second quarter you're down three and they go on an 11-0 run.  Was that the story of the game?

CHAUNCEY BILLUPS:  That hurt.  They got a couple leads and we cut in.  You know, Haslem was great, Jones played great.  It wasn't their main two guys tonight, it was everybody else.

TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  We've got to be focused and stay that way.  At times we were focused tonight.  They got some big leads and we cut it back down and then focus went the other way around and they put the lead back up.  So, that was basically it. 

Q.  You guys have been in this situation before, down 3-2 in a series and been able to come back and win.  What's the key to coming back and winning a series when you're down?

TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  Like I said before tonight's game, we haven't put a 48-minute game together yet besides the last game, even Game 1 I don't think it was 48 we played for the whole time.  We haven't done it yet and obviously it's an important time to do it now.  Now the situation where we want to win this series, we've got to win it on the road.  But Game 6 is obviously important and we've got to start there. 

Q.  You guys got 16 points out of your four bigs, what's going wrong there? 

TAYSHAUN PRINCE:  It's difficult when we get in foul trouble because, you know, that way when you're in foul trouble, you're less aggressive and you can't really do the things you want to do.  Obviously whenever they are in foul trouble, it's tough on them, so there's not much that you can do.  Obviously.


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT