NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 28, 2009
Chauncey Billups
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: It's always there, no matter the case. But especially when you are down 3-2. It's difficult, no matter what. But home's always an added bonus, extra bonus. You face elimination. So you gotta come out and do all you can. 

 Q. The play is going to be different, too, now because you have another weapon; Lamar stepped up there as well. And you have that being at home and studying tape and doing what you have to do. 
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Lamar played good. You gotta tip your hat to him. Every game's different. You know what I'm saying? Every game's different. Now he'll be a little more on the scouting report. I feel fine about the way we control what he's doing.

 Q. Is it the same scenario you had in Detroit, down 3-2?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Couple times. Couple times, man. 

 Q. The question is: How do you get through it? What was the mindset especially going into that game, too?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: I guess it's just got to be about one game. You feel like you got -- you feel like you got to play every game as if it's a Game 7 for you. And that's the way that we got through it the couple times we did in Detroit. 
 And that's just the way it's got to be. You gotta play the game like it's Game 7.

 Q. You talked about you've been through this before?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Yeah, I'm sure we'll talk about it tomorrow at shoot-around and before the game on pretty much what the mindset gotta be and can't have no more errors at this point.

 Q. How do you think you guys are in Game 6, 3-2?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Obviously we haven't been in this position yet. But we was in a desperate situation to win at home in Game 4 and came out with an unbelievable effort. So I'm thinking we can probably pull a lot of confidence from that.

 Q. Last night, even in the fourth quarter, when you started to fall behind, what was going on in the fourth quarter maybe that was different that put the game in a different place?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: They went on a heck of a run, and we just couldn't get the ball in the basket. And not only that, when they got aggressive defensively, I thought that we took a step back. We got a little more passive and played to not turn over, to not mess up as opposed to being aggressive as playing, having confidence.

 Q. Are you seeing the same defensive intensity from them that you hadn't seen in the series?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Yeah, they got really aggressive. They picked up and tried to trap harder. They were just active. When you're making a run, especially when you're at home, you know it's easy to be like that. That's kind of what that does for you. That's what the home court and making a run does for your defensive presence. It's like a snowball effect. 
 And you get it going and everybody's happy and everybody's rallying hard, trying to make defensive plays. And I think that's what they did.

 Q. How do they win without Kobe scoring 30, 40, whatever?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: It just looked like he was being a lot more self-adjusted in there trying to get his guys into the game. Those guys, they have a lot of guys that can really hurt you, that play well. When they get extra touches or extra opportunities to show their work, I'm sure they look forward to that.

 Q. How would that change you guys defensively? Because they are --
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: We watched film and there's a lot of times we went on Kobe on pick-and-rolls when he wasn't even trying to attack. Opened up the court so much for the high/low sets and getting the ball into the middle of the court, that's how everybody else got touches and their baseline cuts hurt us a lot in the game.
 So just a little more being attentive to what's going on.

 Q. LA is kind of a strange play guard situation. Three people rotating. Do you find it difficult to play against, because you aren't sure who is going to come out?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: That's just regular basketball. Every team has two or three point guards; that's not a big deal.

 Q. Talked about Shannon Brown comes out of basically nowhere and not as prepared for him, or is that unexpected?
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: We're prepared for all of them. That's why we watch film. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT