NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 24, 2009
Chauncey Billups
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: I think that's good. This is a long season. We're in the Western Conference Finals. It's been a long wait. But other than everybody just being a little tired, that's just -- you gotta get out there and bust it no matter what.   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible) to get more 3s?  
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: To get more 3s, to make them, just keep shooting them. Just couldn't make them last night.   
 If you look at who shot most of them, it's all our best shooters. Your best shooters get good looks, then you've got to take them. But I think the problem was myself, J.R., Melo, all of us who are really good free throw shooters shot some bad shots.  
  
  Q. What's that mean for the game?  
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Taking the chance to hit the back-up.  
  
  Q. Do you talk to the guys or is there any --  
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: We came in. George talked to us for a while. Couple of us talked to the media. We watched film and you get ready to strap it up tomorrow.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: You know, I think maybe. I think that's a fair assessment. I think being home, just knowing how great this crowd is, when we make 3s and we make dunks, I think we may have put a little too much of that and wanted to feed off of them too much instead of playing a little smarter, like I said. You can make a few more mistakes at home because you've got the crowd that's going to get you through a lot of them.  
 But we can't bank on that. You know what I'm saying? We've got to play the right way like we've been playing the entire playoffs.  
  
  Q. How do you assess (indiscernible)?  
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: I thought it was great. His energy is up. He was all over the court like always. I thought it was great.  
  
  Q. You guys had a 16-point lead seemed like through the first three quarters of the game. What was the difficulty in taking the next step to deliver the knockout punch there?  
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: The same thing as I just said. I think we just didn't play as smart as we should have. You know what I'm saying? A lot of the stuff we shot, we probably should have been a little more patient with the ball and trying to get to the basket and attack like we usually do.   
 Like I said, when you take quick shots or you take long shots, sometimes it opens you up for transition opportunities. And that's a good way to get back into the game.  
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: For my career?   
  
  Q. (Indiscernible)?  
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Not that high at all. But I'm from the Eastern Conference where everything is a grind, you know what I'm saying? So this is nothing. It's physical. I mean, probably for the rest of the conference and it's good. I love that. That's the way I like to play anyway.   
  But it's just basketball. But it's not as bad as it might look.   
  Q. What was the difference for Carmelo last night?  
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: You will have to ask Carmelo that.  
  
  Q. How do you expect him to bounce back next game?  
 CHAUNCEY BILLUPS: Melo will be fine, man. He'll be fine. We watched tape. I'm sure he's seen a lot of gaps that he probably didn't see during the game last night. Melo will be fine.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT