NBA AWARDS SHOW
June 24, 2019
Mike Conley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Mike.  Take a moment to tell us what this means to you not only as a player but as a person.
MIKE CONLEY: Firstly, I think awards like these are, you know, truly just the sign of respect from your peers.  I thank my parents for the way that they raised me and the man I am today.  I'm just really honored and humbled.  Could have given these awards to anybody, and for me to be standing up in front of you guys with both of them, I'm just truly grateful.
Q. After winning these awards, do you try to bring this to the Utah Jazz next season?  What do you want to do with your new teammates?
MIKE CONLEY: Honestly, I don't think it's anything I will have to try to do; I think it's my personality.  It's who I am.  Already the whole organization, the Utah Jazz, they do so much in the community that I will just fit right in.  I want to fit in seamless and be that player that everybody is used to being around in the city.
So it's our responsibility to be those kind of people, role models and good people, not just basketball players and that's what I want to try to continue to do.
Q. Mike, take us through your reflections now on that trade.  This was not something that snuck up out of nowhere.  We talked about it back in January, February, but when it became real, how did that word come to you and how have you processed it since then?
MIKE CONLEY: Yeah, I had kind of found out that Utah was being aggressive the night before, really calling the Grizzlies, they were doing a great job of keeping me in the loop, who was calling and stuff.
They said that something could happen in the next couple of days, so in my mind I'm thinking two or three days something might happen so the next morning is when it happened.
At the time, you know, you try to prepare yourself for that moment, but you really don't know how you're going to react to it.  Once it happened, you know, you just reflect on all the memories, Memphis, there for 12 years, and it was a great 12 years, and I'm going to miss that city a lot.
After about 30, 45 minutes it started to all settle in and started to get really excited about the new opportunity and the great team that I will be joining.  They're already so good and to be added to that is something I'm really looking forward to, trying to make those guys the best players they can be and try to do something special.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Mike.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT