NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 2, 2018
Cortni Emanuel
Alysen Febrey
Lu Harris-Champer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Florida State - 7, Georgia - 2   
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by Georgia head coach Lu Harris-Champer, student-athletes Cortni Emanuel and Alysen Febrey.  Coach, certainly would have been easy for this team, which features 17 of your 22 players are freshmen and sophomore, to kind of throw in the towel after Brittany went down.  Can you talk about the journey they took you on over those last two months?   
COACH HARRIS-CHAMPER: It's been amazing.  This team has had so much heart and so much fight.  And they're really unmatched just in the sense, in the way they have so much strong, internal leadership and the way they really held each other accountable to a high standard all year long.   
I can't say enough about our seniors.  Instrumental in everything that's been happening on this team and just so proud and thankful for them for what they've given to Georgia softball.   
Gotta give credit to Florida State.  I thought they did a great job with their game plan.  Thankful to everyone who made this event possible.  It's been absolutely an awesome place to be at this time of year.  But, again, just so proud of the culture the team has built from the inside out.  And I can't be more proud of them.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  Players, what happened when Brittany went down and you all were still able to put it together to get to this point?  
CORTNI EMANUEL: I think it really took everybody buying in and knowing that we have each other's back regardless if you know our ace pitcher is down.   
It took us a few weeks to realize, okay, we can do this.  But we all just stayed together and realized that we were strong together -- we made these "together we're stronger" bracelets.  And I think knowing that, I think that's what brought us here.   
ALYSEN FEBREY: We had to come together as a family.  Obviously Brittany was our ace, but coming together as a family, bringing us closer together, we knew we could get through it.   
 Q.  Cortni, today's game, you all put together two runs there in the fifth.  Did you feel that momentum was coming your way then?  
CORTNI EMANUEL: For sure.  Anytime you score runs, that's a little bit of momentum towards the end score, final score, whatever.  But, yeah, I felt a lot of momentum.  I was, like, okay, we're on to something.  But we came up short.   
 Q.  Coach, how did you feel that the team was -- were they finally finding a spark there in that inning when you --  
COACH HARRIS-CHAMPER: We had some really quality at-bats throughout the game, but we just didn't get enough to just fall in.  I thought we had some great at-bats.   
 Q.  Alysen, is this a disappointing trip?  Or do you all look at it, hey, we got this far when people doubted us?  
ALYSEN FEBREY: This is everyone's goal.  Everyone wants to get to the World Series.  Getting here was an accomplishment.  Yeah, we wanted to get farther.  But playing at the World Series is everyone's dream.   
 Q.  Cortni, this season I think maybe a lot of people doubted Georgia after missing out on the SEC Tournament last year.  What was the mindset of the team entering this season and knowing that, hey, we're going to make it to the World Series?  
CORTNI EMANUEL: You know, we didn't want to feel that feeling again.  Being last in the SEC, barely making the tournament, that was not a good feeling, especially previously, the year before a few of us made it to the World Series.  So we were on like two totally different teams.   
And so just getting everybody to get up and, like, believe, and when we actually believe that's when we're like, oh, my God, we're really good.  So I think it was just the belief and the confidence that really made us get here.   
COACH HARRIS-CHAMPER: And Cortni has been instrumental in that because she's one of the strongest players I've ever coached in giving belief and confidence to those around her.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT