MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2021
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. As someone who's played here a lot over the years, how much of a benefit is it from year one to year two for all these guys who played in November for the first time, coming back now?
 BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, it was funny, playing with Corey today, I think he said this was his fourth Masters, but he played well in November.  I think he said 10th.
 He doesn't know the challenges of this course.  In November it played a little slower, a little softer, so he played a little different conditions.  Today the greens are firming up.  It's hard to spin the ball.  So today the conditions are way different than November, even on -- I think today is Monday.  I don't even know what day it is.
 So even on a day like today, it's just way different than in November, and he saw that today.  So yes, the more you play it, the more you understand it.
 That doesn't mean you're going to play well.  Doesn't mean you're going to win.  Just means you understand how difficult it is.
 So yeah, the golf course changes nonstop, just depending on the weather, and the weather has been so perfect the last few days with a little bit of breeze, so the greens are definitely firm and getting quick.
 Q. How much of a difference will there be with patrons this time around?  And in your experience when you came back for the second year, did you think about what had happened here the first time out?
 BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, you think about that stuff.  You try to improve on it.  With the fans, the patrons here, it's going to be different.  We're going to hear a lot more "Go Dawgs."  But it's one of those things where a good shot now we'll hear some cheers, we'll hear some roars again, which always pumps us up, which means that we have the ability to do that, too.
 When we're on the front nine and somebody is on the back nine and you hear the roars, it just excites you and you know that you're capable of making some great shots, maybe an eagle, maybe a few birdies.  So when we hear the roars, that's what we get out of it, or I get out of it.
 Yeah, with the fans here it's going to be a different feel, more excitement, more energy, and so yeah.  But the more you play it, like the question you asked, the more you play it, the more you understand it.  Again, like I said, it's one week out of the year we're trying to perform, get in our peak physical top shape we can possibly be in for those four days.  You've got one chance.  So if you're down a little bit, you can lose a tournament just like that.
 Q. You're saying it's firming up; specifically which holes were standing out to you?
 BUBBA WATSON:   1 through 18.  (Laughter.)
 Gosh, 17 right now, a couple chip shots that were just -- you can hear it.  The ball just doesn't really have the check that we're used to, and so for a Monday, I know the weather looks like there could be some rain here and there, which would soften it up slightly.  As we know they can change the course real fast.
 But just things like that, especially on a Monday -- I saw it yesterday a little bit playing with Bryson.  But then today, the more the sun is out, it's going to just bake it a little bit, and you can see it.  You can hear it, you can see it, so you have to be -- you have to use more imagination, have to play the angles, have to make sure you miss the ball in the right spots, and that might not be the green on that hole.
 Q. What do you mean you can hear it?
 BUBBA WATSON:   When it hits the green, you can tell the sound of it.  You can tell -- you can hear the spin or you can hear no spin.  It sounds -- I wouldn't say it sounds hollow, but it just sounds a little harder, harder hit on a green, even just on a chip shot, so you can hear it and you can tell the difference of how the course is playing real fast.
 Q. What was your impression of Saturday at the Augusta National Women's Amateur and why was it important for you to be there?
 BUBBA WATSON:   Well, first of all, the real thing is I'm a golf fan.  I have a six-year-old daughter that signed up for the Drive, Chip & Putt two days ago.  I have a nine year old boy who signed up because they watched on TV, a wife that played professional sport.  So obviously I'm a fan of sports.  It doesn't matter, men, women, doesn't matter to me.  So being out here, being a past champion, I feel like I'm part of the membership here.  I feel like I'm part of the club here.
 What they're doing for the game of golf all over the board, all over the world is giving people hope, giving people inspiration, giving people dreams.
 So to be a part of that is a no-brainer for me.  It's fun.
 And now going back to the competition, two years ago in '19, we saw some heroic, some great shots with two young ladies that impressed in a different way.  The golf course was a little different this year, and it was a little tougher, and you could see nerves where -- I think there was a triple bogey, there was a couple double bogeys coming down the stretch.  So there was about 10 people that had a chance.  There was almost a chance for a 10-way playoff there it looked like.
 Even though there were some high scores, it's still amazing golf to come down the stretch and do it under pressure and having the fans and cheering them on and supporting them, yeah, it was awesome to watch.  I bet on TV it had to be pretty good coverage.  I was just watching the groups finish on 18.
 But yeah, so it's a no-brainer for me to come out here and support and watch, and again, having the Green Jacket, which I don't know how I got it twice, but I got it, so I just feel like I'm part of the club and I want to be here to support anything they do, any endeavors they do.  The membership here is so smart and intelligent in what they're doing for the game of golf, not only for ladies but for young people, for men, as well.  It's pretty impressive.  So yes, with two ladies and my mom and other people in my life, why would you not support the women out here playing and showing us amazing shots?
 Q. Given your ties to Augusta, do you have a favorite sandwich here yet?
 BUBBA WATSON:   Gosh, how are you going to pick one sandwich?  I always eat the Taste of the Masters, which is a trio, but I actually take out the egg salad and I put in another barbecue slider, so I have two barbecue sliders, I have pimiento cheese and then I have french fries.  They know my meals, they know my breakfast and my lunch meal, so when I walk in, they just ask, "Are you hungry," and I'm like, "Yeah, can you get me something," and they know what my order is by now.
 Q. What's your breakfast?
 BUBBA WATSON:   Gosh, I go scrambled eggs, two scrambled eggs, two pieces of bacon, two biscuits and hash browns, and I always say hash browns without all the fancy stuff in it.  I just want the potatoes; I don't want all the onions and all that pretty stuff in there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT