THE 145TH OPEN
July 14, 2016
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on your round.  
BUBBA WATSON: I thought it was good.  This is the kind of course that you know that the front nine's going to be gettable, especially with the wind like it was starting out.  Wind seems like it's dying off right now.  But it was a tough stretch there.   
I hit one bad shot all day.  And I hit it on the wrong spot.  I just hit it on the par-3 there.  That hole has been killing me all week, even in practise.  So one bad swing there.   
I hit a really good swing on 11, but it was in a terrible spot.  So I had to lay-up, so that was another bogey.  And then two bad lag putts.  So one bad swing and two bad lag putts all day, so it doesn't equal up to the best score, but in my head it's pretty good golf.   
 Q.  What were you hoping for on the bunker shot on 8, just to barely get it out?  
BUBBA WATSON: No, I was trying to hit it there.  If you notice, my caddie went and looked for me.  I'm not going to try to ricochet it off the hill in the tall grass.  But my caddie went and looked and I went and looked.  I couldn't get in there and hit it the other way, so it's just one of those things.  Then I was just hoping for a good lie, and I hit it.  I didn't guess what the lie was too well on the first shot that came back.  So it was just one of those things.   
 Q.  Why do you think that hole is causing trouble?  
BUBBA WATSON: Well, there's a lot of reasons, but people call those excuses, so I'm going to say just because I'm not very good under pressure on that short hole.   
 Q.  As a golf hole, do you like the golf hole?  
BUBBA WATSON: I love the golf hole.  I love it.  I mean, that's what a designer does.  There are going to be some holes out there that other guys don't like or doesn't fit their eye, something about it.  But it might be a hole I love.  So it's one of those things.  Out of 18 holes it's very rare that you love all 18.   
Like I said, if that swing would have been on another hole, I probably could have saved par or at least a bogey.  It just happened to be the one bad swing I had all day was on that hole, and it cost me dearly.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, just you're guessing.  Is it going to come out fast?  Is it going to come out soft?  We guessed fast and it came out soft.  So it's golf, you know?   
 Q.  The way you started, you could have been lower than 5-under as well.  Are you disappointed?  
BUBBA WATSON: No, it's special for me to shoot under par at a major, so I'm happy.  Happy that last one fell in.  But, no, we know.  We know downwind that you're going to be able to make some birdies.  You've still got to make putts and when you make the turn.  Like I said though, the wind is dying down, so the last few holes weren't as tough when we finished as they were during the practise rounds.   
 Q.  How did 11 figure in?  
BUBBA WATSON: Let's be honest, that hole fits nobody's eye.  I hit it, I hit the tee shot as good as I could hit it.  I loved it.  It was inside Rory's.  I thought it was going to be good, and then I go down there and it's in a valley where I had to chip out.   
 Q.  (Inaudible) what did you hit off the tee?  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it was a wedge.  I think we had 124 today and I was just trying to chip the wedge.  But my mind I feel like the wind is coming from the left, but it's coming from the right.  You'd think after three days of practise in a tournament I'd figure that out.  Hopefully by the end of the week we'll figure it out.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, every day.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
BUBBA WATSON: Yesterday the same spot.  I wanted to see if I could do better than yesterday and obviously I couldn't.   
 Q.  Is there any course where you have been (inaudible).  
BUBBA WATSON: If I ever went bogey-free on a course, I like that one.  No, there are always holes that don't fit your eye.  It's just human nature, I could sit here and lie to the press and say every hole is great, I love it.  But I'm telling the truth, you're going to have some that just don't fit you, so you play differently or try to play safer.   
 Q.  Which wedge was it?  
BUBBA WATSON: It was a Ping, beautiful wedge.  They make a beautiful wedge.  Yeah, left-handed one.  48 degree, it was a pitching wedge, yeah.   
 Q.  From here, Bubba, how do you feel about your prospects going into tomorrow?  
BUBBA WATSON: Well, I think we played for like five hours or something and I practised for a little bit.  So seven hours ago when I checked the weather it wasn't looking good for tomorrow.  So I'm hoping when I check it in a second it really changed around 2:37.  I'm hoping it really gets sunny and no wind around 2:37 tomorrow.   
 Q.  Not going to happen.  
BUBBA WATSON: Right.  That's what I was figuring, but you always got to hope.  Just like I'm hoping I'll hit the green on 8 tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT