WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2020
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Some comments on your round, please.  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it was a solid round. I'm playing -- bright and early like that, you never know how the ball's going to react on the greens, so I just tried to play solid, play smart, especially with cold weather, the ball doesn't go as far. And then to make that putt on the first hole, number 10, it was nice to get off to a great start with about a 40-footer, 35-footer, whatever it was for a birdie.   
 Q.  Did you kind of settle in after that first make?  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, I mean, anytime you can start off with a birdie, you feel like everything's going your way. And then the next tee shot, number 11, to get that in the fairway, that's another good one. So to get off to the right start, no mistakes, that's what we're looking for. And then to throw in a putt here and there is the key, right, and that's really what I did today. I just played solid and played a putt here, made a putt there.   
 Q.  This is a little off the wall, but we asked y'all so much what it's like to golf on the 16th. What do you think it is like to be a sign holder holding up the quiet please signs, especially on a Saturday here?  
BUBBA WATSON: It's probably like a parent, where the kids don't listen. You know, it's one of those things where the volunteers are there for a reason to try to help out, but they're not getting much headway. So I think they enjoy it. I mean, that, the people that sign up for to get No. 16, you got to enjoy it. You got to like it. And that's why we play here. It's fun once a year. I got booed a few times yesterday on that hole and then I made up for it with a birdie today, so it worked out good in my favor today.   
 Q.  Do you take it in at all? Like, on 16, do you take in the crowd at all when you're walking off?  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, I mean, it's one of those things, especially when you make a birdie, then they're not booing. But when I played the pro-am on Wednesday, I played with the Solheim family which is the owners of Ping. And without Jon Solheim, I couldn't have turned pro, right? And so for me to play with them and see them in that atmosphere and be nervous and feel what we feel, it was a special time for me. So that's the time, I kind of took it in with that family and had a blast.   
 Q.  How much does this place changed since you first moved out here and started coming out here?  
BUBBA WATSON: The atmosphere has grown tremendously. I think the Thunderbirds have created an atmosphere that's fun, energetic. But then on top of that, the dollars they have raised to charity, for the local charities, is through the roof. The golf course has obviously changed because of the redo, but it seems like every year the conditions are getting better and better. The greens, we can't ask for better greens this week. This is unbelievable how good these greens are this week.   
 Q.  So what are some of your mental thoughts and some of your game thoughts going into the weekend?  
BUBBA WATSON: The key is just do the same thing, try to hit fairways, hit quality iron shots, and then make a putt here or there. I mean, that's the goal every week, not just here. But, and then don't throw up on yourself on 16, so, when everybody's watching.   
 Q.  What's the craziest thing you've seen out on 16?  
BUBBA WATSON: There's kids present, you know. We can't -- we have seen some wild stuff. We have seen some wild stuff. That's a nice way of saying it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT