THE BARCLAYS
August 29, 2015
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I don't know about you, but you hit an awful lot of good putts out there, a little frustrating maybe?  
BUBBA WATSON: No, because I'm in a good spot.  We always want a chance on Sunday.  So as of right now, I've got a chance.   
You know, it's one of those things where these are tough greens.  These are tricky greens, that's the nicest way to say it and very difficult.  And a lot of the putts that I missed were big breakers.  It wasn't like the last hole there.  It broke over two feet, or less than two feet -- but they are tough putts.   
You look at the total score, we're happy, but missed opportunities.  Obviously you can say that you're mad but I'm really not.   
 Q.  You've had a great year but coming off the green, Caleb is there, putts things in great perspective, doesn't it?  
BUBBA WATSON: Oh, for sure.  Our battle has been documented throughout the years to adopt, and to have a blessing like that, golf means nothing.  Hopefully he doesn't mind if I play bad or if I play good.  Right now he doesn't but hopefully as he gets older, he doesn't mind if I play bad, either.   
 Q.  Another solid round out there, what was working well for you today?  
BUBBA WATSON: Just my mind.  My mind was in the right spot, a lot of good tee shots.  When I got in trouble, I played smart, got out of it.  You know, I missed some birdie putts out there but at the same time, a lot of my birdie putts that I missed were big breakers.  Difficult to get the speed and the line right, and these greens are pretty tricky, so I'm happy with the day and got a shot at it tomorrow.   
 Q.  Only one shot back, how comfortable are you being in that position?  
BUBBA WATSON: Well, we're never comfortable.  I've only won eight times, so obviously I'm not too comfortable.  I'm looking forward to it.  That's what we want.  That's why we play the game.  That's why we play sports is to have a chance to get the trophy.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to most tomorrow?  
BUBBA WATSON: Just getting out here and the challenge.  That's what we want.  Even if I played bad tomorrow and shot in the 80s or 90s, we still want that, we're athletes.  Golfers are athletes and we want that challenge and we want that adrenaline, and we want that nervous feeling and we want to perform under pressure.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT