WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 7, 2015
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Just open up and talk about your round and your thoughts on today.BUBBA WATSON: Today was better.  Yesterday I was a little off.  I couldn't hit shots.  I don't know what it was -- I do know what it was.  I figured it out. Hit a little bit better today.  Hit some more fairways than yesterday -- I think I did.  So I played a little bit better.  I had some more chances for birdies and actually made a few putts today.  So I played a lot better.Q. How many times had you and Dustin been paired together before, and how much do you guys kind of feed off of one another when you start hitting drivers off tees together?BUBBA WATSON: You know, it's funny.  I write down every time we play together.  So I think it's like 13.  I don't know.  You were buying into that.  How would I know?Q. You had me going for a minute.BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, exactly.  Oh, he wrote it down (laughter).  I have no clue.Q. Do you feed off of each other?BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, sure.  It's finally a guy that we hit it close to the same, give or take.  I'll say I'm longer than him.  He'll say he's a lot better and straighter. So finally, you get a guy that you can see what he's hitting and why he's hitting it, what he's guessing off the winds, off the par 3s, and you can feed off that.  So you can kind of see what he's doing, and he can see what I'm doing.  We're both long hitters, so we both play a similar game.Q. Do you prefer to see this course firm and fast like it is this week?BUBBA WATSON: Well, right now I do.  If I was like 8-over, I'd be like, no, this is the worst course ever.  Again, we've got two more days.  This is a tough test. You know, I don't see too many people -- Jim Furyk is doing unbelievable right now, so there's another golf tournament going on. It's going to be tough.  It's supposed to get hotter the next few days.  So it's going to get tougher.  This is the first time I truly have seen it this way.  Out of all the years I've been here, the greens have been so soft compared to this.  So this is a tough test, and it's going to be tough the next two days because it's going to get hotter.Q. Was that part of your struggle yesterday, you had to adjust?BUBBA WATSON: No, I just wasn't hitting the ball very well yesterday.  I don't know what it was.  I was trying to cut it, or I would shove it and wouldn't cut it.  Something in my setup wasn't right, so we tried to tweak some things here and there.Q. What is the most challenging aspect of this golf course, the way it is right now for you?BUBBA WATSON: It's funny.  I've counted up -- there's one par 3 that I count as well.  So there's seven -- and then if I do what I did today on 17, I laid up off the tee.  So I had another blind shot.  So if you do what I did today on 17, there's eight blind shots for me either off the tee or into the greens, and I can't stand blind shots because I want to be able to see where I'm hitting the ball and shape it. One of the par 3s has a bunker right in the middle.  So I can't even see the green.  So I can't tell what kind of movement I want the ball to do.  So it just makes it tough for me. That's what I figured up here is that over the course of four days, it just eats at me.  Same thing with like going to the British Open.  There's so many blind shots.  I just freak out, and I can't play golf.Q. You decided yet whether or not you're going to do the long drive contest next week at Whistling Straits?BUBBA WATSON: Oh, man, that is awesome.  That's all we've got to talk about.  That's pretty sad.  Well, I guess it's good.  Nobody's in trouble.  Is Rory playing?  That's what we need to talk about (laughter).Q. We think so.BUBBA WATSON: Yes, I'm going to hit it.  It made big drama last year for no reason because I stated my opinion.  It's sad that my opinion is obviously wrong at everything I do, but, yes, I'm going to hit the tee shot because I understand it means more to do that than worry about my opinion.  My opinion means nothing.  As long as my family's happy. So, no -- long answer, yes, I'm going to hit the tee shot if I get up that early and go.  If I win this week, no, because I'm not playing any practice rounds.  Let's go ahead and put it out there.  No practice rounds.Q. Just going?BUBBA WATSON: If I win.  But let's be honest, am I going to win?Q. When you see Jim Furyk, as long as he is off the tee box --BUBBA WATSON: That man can stripe a hybrid, though.Q. Is that what you all -- I'm trying to figure out.  What are you and Dustin thinking?  You're looking up there, really, Furyk is there?BUBBA WATSON: You don't look at who's up there or what the score is.  You're looking at play your game, and if it gets firm, it's going to get tougher.  This is a World Golf Championship.  This is the closest thing we have to a major.  So we got four majors, and I think we got four World Golf Championships.  One's match play.  So you can't count that one as a major.  So the other three.  So we've got seven so-called majors. And this golf course is that tough, where this week it's that tough, and right now it's showing that it's going to be even tougher this weekend.  So you got to worry about yourself.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT