A MILITARY TRIBUTE AT THE GREENBRIER
September 12, 2019
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bubba, if we can get some comments on your day.  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it was a good day. Haven't played competitively for about a month. I thought I hit the ball really nicely. I actually thought me and Scott hit it pretty nicely. Just couldn't get the ball in the hole.   
And then watching Kevin make all the putts, it was like, save some for us. It was one of those days where I'm very pleased with it, but then when I look at the score I'm not as happy with it. I couldn't ask for a better ball striking. Couple missed clubs here and there just because the wind was so gusty today. One second it was downwind; one second it was into the wind.   
It was just a good day for a tough test, you know.   
 Q.  So you feel like if you hit it like this the next three days obviously some scorable conditions out there, right?  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, for sure. You can score around here. You got to make some putts and I just didn't make any putts.   
I felt like I played pretty solid. Like I said, I hit the driver really nicely. I couldn't ask for better that way. But couple wedge shots where I thought the wind was doing something else cost me two bogeys. Take those two bogeys -- I mean, they're wedges. One was with a 52 and one was with a 56. Two bogeys. You take those away, two extra shots, you know, that wasn't too bad.   
It's going to come down to making putts. That's PGA TOUR life though. Got to make putts.   
 Q.  Scoring was tougher this afternoon. What does that do for your mindset going into tomorrow with an earlier tee time?  
BUBBA WATSON: Knowing that the wind will be down just a touch so it won't be gusting like it was. It wasn't gusting high levels; it was just switching all over the place.   
So when you're trying to guess right before you hit, you have to guess right. Looking forward to a little bit fresher greens, less people walking on them, freshly cut. Obviously early morning, less winds, so hopefully you can -- softer greens, softer conditions, so be able to hit one a little closer and make a few putts.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT