RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2015
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Talk about the approach on 18.  Did you think it was tight?  BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it's one of those where I wasn't worried about water or anything.  My whole goal was to try to make eagle.  I think anybody in that situation.  If it was flip-flopped, Jason would have went after it too.  We're here to try to win.  I hit it perfect.  I had 186 hole back into the breeze.  Drew it in there perfect.  It was 190 with an 8-iron.  It just bounced over the green. I knew it was going to be tough.  I was hoping that wind would hit it hard, but it didn't, I hit it so good.  Then we were joking that my caddie 15 years ago when Tiger hit the shot out of the bunker, he was caddying for Grant Waite, so they finished second to a great play, and I finished second to a great play.  So Teddy's done that twice now with Tiger and Jason Day.   Q.  What happened on the front nine?  Did you think you would get that close or have the opportunity to get within a shot of the lead?  BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, you always feel like you can play golf.  It's one of those things where I was making some silly bogeys.  I was trying to -- let me look at one really fast.  No. 5, I was trying to keep it on the left side of the fairway or the rough, chipping up to that pin, overcut it.  I didn't trust the club on 4. So it wasn't swing problems.  I never had swing problems.  It's all mental problems.  So I knew I wasn't far off.  I knew if I could get hot, make a few putts, and that's what I did coming down the stretch.  I hit a couple good shots, couple good putts and lost by one.  I guess one is enough.   Q.  Obviously you want to win out here, but do you feel for David a little bit, knowing what he was going for with the Canadian history?  What did you think of the atmosphere?  BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, for sure.  He was playing so good.  He started off hot.  He putts unbelievable.  There were so many putts that he hit that should have fell in.  I don't know how they stayed out.  He played great.  For him and Canada, that would have been a great story, especially trying to get -- I don't think he's won yet, right?  So that would have been his first win and especially in Canada how amazing would that have been. He played great.  You could see on the last hole.  He hit great putts and they just didn't go in.   Q.  You didn't feel the crowd was against you?  BUBBA WATSON: No, no, I'm not worried about the crowd.  I'm half Canadian.   Q.  Was the course tougher today in general?  It seemed like the scores weren't as low.  BUBBA WATSON: It's Sunday, everybody's trying to lift a trophy or a big check, one of the two.  So it gets tougher for everybody.  But if you remember, this is totally different wind.  During the practice rounds and during the competition, this is the first time the wind has been this direction, so it just changes everything.  Holes that were normally a little bit easier are now tougher, and the holes that were tougher are now easier.  So it changes your whole thinking and how balls react on certain greens.  So the wind direction changes a lot of that.   Q.  Did you know where you were coming down the stretch, like at 15, 14?  BUBBA WATSON: I watched -- I was watching the leaderboard when I birdied, what was that?  15.  And I made the putt on 16.  I knew where I was.  I asked in the middle of the fairway on 17 what Jason did because I saw him make about a ten-footer.  I didn't know if it was for par or birdie, so I asked, and they said birdie.  And I asked if it was a birdie putt on 18, before he putted, and I saw him chase it in.  So I knew what I had to do. I always watch the leaderboard because you have to know if you have to attack or play smart.   Q.  Talk about how the finish was?  BUBBA WATSON: I knew downwind on 17, so there was a chance at 17.  15 was one I got lucky with.  I hit a great shot in there.  But I knew there was always a chance.  I had an 8-iron that I flared on 16 but still got a birdie.  Hit a perfect 8-iron that flew five yards too far on 18.  So I knew there was always a chance.  I was just hoping the other guy named Jason Day wasn't making putts. I did play with Hearn.  He hit so many good putts that just didn't go in.  You saw that on 18.  So we were struggling back there.   Q.  Despite coming up a shot short, you have Caleb here, you have your family here.  That has to be very special.  The crowd out there all day was supportive.  How much did it mean to have that support even though you didn't get this one today?  BUBBA WATSON: It's always good.  You take confidence from this.  You take pride that I fought back with the birdies.  And also I think Canada and the crowd were treating me just as fair as David.  Since my wife's Canadian, I still have a little positive going my way.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT