WGC CADILLAC MATCH PLAY
April 29, 2015
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   We are here on the 14th green.   We talked about it, it was quick work over Miguel Angel.   Other guys were saying this was a difficult golf course to score on, how did you find it?
    BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, it's tough to make birdies.   The golf course is so long that some of the greens are really bouncing right now.   It's only the first day, and you're getting some big bounces, even with sand wedges. 
    I made two birdies.   One bogey on 13 right there.   But I just made the putts that I needed to make. 
    Miguel missed his birdie putts.   He had three bogeys and no birdies.   That helped me out.   I didn't have to make a lot of birdies to advance, to get a win so far.   That's the key.   The key is just making sure you're in there and making pars on all the holes.   And the golf course sets up good off the tee for me, as long as I hit my driver well.   There's a lot of cut shots off the tee, so it sets up good for me. 

Q.   Someone said it was a comfortable win, but you seemed to be in control of the match the whole way?
    BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, I got off to a good start.   I birdied the first hole, par 5.   I hit it in the rough, but still got it out of the bunker.   I took the lead early, and he never made a birdie putt.   It's tough making birdie putts out here.   I got up and down on two par 5s for birdies, that was my only two birdies.   I played steady, didn't get in trouble.   Got up and down when I needed to and just played steady.

Q.   You didn't make a lot of birdies, but you put a lot of pressure on him peppering it into greens and into fairways?
    BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, when you hit a lot of fairways with my length, a lot of wedges, a lot of short irons, and that's going to put pressure on somebody, especially of his length.   He's going to have a longer shot, 40, 50 yards longer.   So he knows that I'm going to hit the green, so he's got to hit something special.   It made it tough on him.

Q.   To me it looks like you can hit a lot of cutters off the tee?
    BUBBA WATSON:   For sure.   This golf course sets up well for me off the tee.   It sets up well, doesn't mean I'm going to play well. 
    Today I hit my driver nicely.   Hit my cuts nicely off the tees.   Was never in real big trouble and just played steady.

Q.   You've got Keegan next?
    BUBBA WATSON:   Yes, I think so.   It will be fun.   He's a great player, a long hitter, likes to draw the ball, so I think this golf course is going to suit him, as well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT