MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2015
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You had the shot of the tournament on 2 today.   Barely missing an albatross, double eagle.   Just take us through the hole, your tee shot and then the second shot to the green?  
BUBBA WATSON:   The tee shot, the tees were up.   When I say up, they were up a couple yards.   So the wind wasn't into us.   
So I hit a good tee shot.   I liked it off the tee.   Got down there, I was just in between a 6‑iron and 5‑iron.   I was waiting for this gust of wind.   So then we went with a 5‑iron and I hit it perfect.   
I knew it would go to the center of the green and then it was just all about how the bounce was.   And it bounced perfectly and started rolling.   So I knew it was going to be good.   Obviously, you don't know how good from 220 something yards away, but obviously I could make eagle, it was close enough.  
   
 Q.   As it was rolling what was going through your stomach?   Did you think it had a chance?  
BUBBA WATSON:   You always think it has a chance when it's rolling.   Then you see people a few feet away stand up and when you see people stand up, that means it's got to be close.   
So, a few years ago in '12 when I won, in 2012, when I won, Louis Oosthuizen, he holed it out with a 4‑iron.   So we had those same thoughts, my caddie started laughing and he said, "Oh, man, I thought you were going to do the same thing he did in 2012."   So there's always those thoughts.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
BUBBA WATSON:   Some things like that that have caused me to shoot the numbers I have.   Not that I was going to win, because there's a guy out there a couple guys out there playing really good, but I thought I would have a better chance of playing a better score than I had the last, this weekend.  
   
 Q.   We're a couple months away, do you know much about Chambers Bay?  
BUBBA WATSON:   I played it twice.   Ryan Moore had a charity event out there.   So I played it twice.   That doesn't mean it's going to be the same conditions.   
So I've seen it, but I haven't seen it in the setup that they have been talking about.   
   
 Q.   What did you think?  
BUBBA WATSON:   I thought it was good.   Again, if they set it up firm and fast it's going to be a British Open.   Because there's no trees.   There's one tree and it's in the distance.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT