TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2019
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Why don't we start with the finish.
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, that was nice.  I hit a pretty good shot in there, well, I thought, and then it just trickled off the green.
And then good lie, and obviously with the kids right there, you know, you got to show off in front of them, so somehow I got it to go in.
I've had that shot before in the past and it just came off good and rolled in there like a putt.
Q. When you don't have the round you're looking for today and you do something like that, how does that help you going into tomorrow?
BUBBA WATSON: It was funny.  Teddy said, Where we playing next?  Because that's how golf is, right?  You don't like golf and then you make a long putt or you chip in, and then you're ready to play the next day.
Today I actually felt better.  I felt better energy -wise, I felt better mindset.  I wasn't tentative on any shot.  Score wasn't there.  Score doesn't show how I played or how I felt I played.
Yesterday I didn't feel that good and I shoot under par.  Today I shoot over par and feel a lot better.  Just one of those things.  It's golf.
I've played bad a lot in my career, so probably do it again.
Q. Course much different having good weather?
BUBBA WATSON: You know, with the wind like it is, a little gusty and stuff, it seems like downhill the greens are speeding up a little bit.  I just couldn't control it.  I don't know if it was gusts of wind or something, but downhill was fast as I've ever seen it around here.
Q. What is it about the way that you approach this game?  You're not always going to have a great round, but you always a good attitude.
BUBBA WATSON: Well, I think thank like Teddy was saying and what we been working on this year is thinking about all the positives.  My life, two beautiful kids, beautiful wife.  Been blessed beyond belief.
Coming back here thinking about my dad, I want to do so good.  Thinking about the Hole in the Wall Gang Camp.  I put so much pressure on myself at all these events, and then coming down the stretch me and Teddy are just talking.  It's just how blessed are we?  Doesn't matter.  I could have made an eight on every single hole I'm still going home to beautiful kids, beautiful wife, bills are paid.
That's the thing.  I got to look at that from a different perspective.  And that's really what I do it for, trying to teach my own self instead of anybody else.  Just teach myself it's just a game and just have fun with it.
Doing that with these kids yelling and just somehow got energized and pulled the chip off, it was fun.  That's the way I look at it and sometimes I forget that.
Q. You have a 60 in you tomorrow?
BUBBA WATSON: I need it.  I would love to shoot that Jim Furyk round just to have a chance.
Q. Go out and relax tomorrow knowing you'll be a little ways off the lead?
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, for sure.  What I'm trying to do now is prepare myself for the next event.  You know, come out here, obviously we get it rolling and do that Jim Furyk thing then we get energized and maybe there is a chance to scare something if the wind picks up like this in the afternoon.
But it has to be some heroic round that I've never done.  I'm just trying to gear up and get ready for the next event.  At some point I'm going to have a shot, and so I've got to stay ready and try to learn from this and keep moving on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT