WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2015
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bubba, Teddy says this course doesn't suit your eye yet you're playing well on it.   How do you explain that?   
BUBBA WATSON:   You know, I finished second here a couple times.   I can't explain it.   The golf course is very, very difficult, for me, for my style of play.   And right now, it's just about my short game is keeping me together.   
And that's what it's‑‑ over the last year, year and a half, it's been my short game that's making me a better player I guess you would say.  
So that's really all it is.   The golf course, no, I can't stand the golf course.   It's way too tough for me.   Donald Trump, he put together a tough one for me and very difficult.   Seemed like I was in sand all day, like I was back in Pensacola Beach.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about the first hole‑‑ did you bogey the first?  
BUBBA WATSON:   I bogeyed the first hole.   Hit driver down the middle, hit 7‑iron down the green but it was going that way so ran into the water.  
   
 Q.   Do you think that hole is fair?   
BUBBA WATSON:   Well, I had 7‑iron in it, so (shrugging shoulders) I mean I could have laid up or hit a better 7‑iron and we would be telling a different story.   How is it not fair?   Every hole out here is fair if you hit good shots.   Problem is I don't hit very many good shots.   If you notice my stats, it's all about short game this week.   
   
 Q.   How do you rate Rory's toss?   
BUBBA WATSON:   His what?   
   
 Q.   His toss into 8?   
BUBBA WATSON:   I thought it was a practice swing and the grip was wet.   
   
 Q.   Is that the screws you would‑‑  
BUBBA WATSON:   I just don't have any comments for that, because, you know, we all get frustrated, so there's no reason to say anything negative about it.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday you said the course was just going to keep getting harder.   The wind was lighter today.   How much harder was it?   
BUBBA WATSON:   It's a lot harder.   If you look at every green, every green is starting to turn that little purplish color, so that means the wedge shots to 3‑iron shots are just going to keep running.   I hit a couple wedge shots that bounced a lot harder than I expected to.   
So, yeah, it's just going to get tougher and tougher as it keeps drying out.   I don't know, I haven't looked at the weather forecast but if it's still like it is today and tomorrow and the next day, it will be baked out here pretty soon.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT