TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2019
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Bubba, I know not the way you wanted to the end the round, but still a good round today.  Right back in the hunt going into the weekend.
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it's sad to finish that way, but we had to play smart after a couple tee shots, after the one on 17.  Starting off that way on the back nine, I think I birdied five in the row, made some long putts.  So it equals out, right?  If I miss those putts and make pars on the last it equals out.
So I'm looking forward to it.  Obviously around this place you can light it up real fast, and so I'm here for the weekend.  I got a chance at it.
Q. (Indiscernible.)
BUBBA WATSON: We've been doing it for the last couple years.  Travelers always has a family night, and obviously with my son getting a little bit older and loving baseball we were doing it down in the Fan Zone.
But this year it was a little muddy, so we moved it over here with the new clubhouse that has that little lawn right there.  So this year with the way it was, no grown ups batted.  We just let the kids keep bating and having fun.
So many young ones came out, which is great.  That's the key.  We got to remember it's just golf, and so we got to focus on what means the most, like our family and our little ones.
So we just had a blast.  Done it for the last couple years.
Q. What went into the decision to change putters and what did that do for you today?
BUBBA WATSON: What was funny is yesterday was a brand new putter.  I grabbed it the day before and started putting with it.  The reason why I started the arm lock is for maybe like a training aid I guess you would say.  You know, just getting the stroke to feel a certain way.
I was like, Let's just take it to the course.  It's not an actual training aid.  It's just a putter, but I was using it for that, to help me train my stroke a little better.  So today I was like, Well, I mean, we didn't make really any putts yesterday so let's try it.
It's one I've been using for a while.  Today when it was raining I was like, Let's go ahead and stick with it.  That's what I did.
Q. What have you learned over time to get yourself prepared for the weekend?  You've done this so many times here and with great success.
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, like I said just a second ago, knowing that we can make birdies in a hurry around here you know that you have a shot.  I think tomorrow the wind is suppose the to pick up in the afternoon, so you come out and do the same thing:  shoot another 5-under.  Shoot 5-under, 5-under on the weekend, gosh, that'll be three 5-unders or 4-unders in a row, whatever it is.
We have a chance at 15-under, so that's what we're looking at.  Always 15-under is going to be around the lead.  At some point they're going to let us play it down so it makes the golf course a little bit more fun, challenging.  So that's when the scores will change a little bit.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT