TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 11, 2014
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BUBBA WATSON:   My head was in the right place today.   I knew that I was swinging at it well.   And I knew that‑‑ I was trying to make a bogey, if anything.   But it caught the tree, went up underneath the other tree.   
I went for it because I felt I could pull it off.   So after looking back at it, yeah, it's easy to look back after it and say chip out.   But at the time we don't know that.   
So I knew there was a par 5 coming up that I could birdie if I hit a good tee shot.   The other ones are bonuses, and so three in a row got me back to where I needed to be.   
Silly bogey on 18.   But other than that, good day, good start, looking forward to the next three days.  
   
 Q.   Bubba, anything seem unusual playing with a short field, 29 players?   Obviously you're used to playing with 100 and some.   Did it seem any different for you?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No, we're used to it.   There's a bunch of tournaments where they have shorter fields, smaller fields.   
So, no, we're used to it.   It's no big deal.   It's easier.   It means I'm going to finish top 29 this week no matter what, no matter how bad I play.  
   
 Q.   Putting working for you again?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Today was nice.   I made some solid putts.   Even the three‑footers, when you make three‑footers, four‑footers for par, that's a big deal.   
Today I felt I hit every putt like I wanted to.   Pulled one on No.8, and then I didn't see it breaking that hard on the last hole on 18.   But all the other ones I hit good putts, if they went in or if they didn't go in.  
   
 Q.   Can you describe the birdie you made on 9, the lie you had on the second shot?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No.9, once I hit the shot I knew it was going long, and so I knew how difficult the up‑and‑down was.   
But what we were looking at is if you try to hit the shot that I hit and it goes long because it bounces hard or something, you should be able to get up‑and‑down from par from just over the green because you're in the fairway chipping up the hill.   
It came out perfect.   Hit the hill perfect, and it trickled down there to the hole.   Then I made the putt.   So the shot's not that good if I don't make the putt.   But I made the putt.   So the shot turned out pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Who won the long drive contest today?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Who cares.   Ask Rory.   He could care less, too.   Listen, all we want to do is win.   We're trying to win golf tournaments.   
Jim Furyk's record, Corey Pavin's record's a lot better than Bubba Watson.   So I wish I hit it like them, I guess.   Sure.  
   
 Q.   You're a football fan, more a college fan, but the NFL, can you kind of believe what's going on right now?   And it seems like it's evolving by the day.   It's just getting kind of crazy in the NFL.   Any reaction about the whole Ray Rice thing and what's been happening?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No, I have no reaction to that.   It's terrible.   When you see that, it's just disrespectful.   It's not the way I was raised.   And it's sad to see.   And hopefully both of them can grow from this.   
Hopefully she can grow from this and get back on track, because she's probably embarrassed as well.   He's probably embarrassed as well.   Hopefully they can both grow from this, learn from this and move on.  
Hopefully the media can move on.   It's a sad situation.   I don't think we should keep harping on it how bad a situation it is.   
But in the NFL, yeah, I want my Saints to win.   They lost that first game.   It was Atlanta, I guess, that beat them.   But we need the Saints to win next time.  
   
 Q.   Did you think Roger Goodell would be in this kind of fire?  
BUBBA WATSON:   You know, I hadn't really thought about it.   I'm trying to win this tournament.   It's a sad situation because the media's blowing it up, showing it nonstop.   Kids don't need to see stuff like that.   
It's a sad situation.   We got problems all over the world, not just this one thing.   But obviously it's a bad situation.   
That's something you never want to happen to your family, to anybody you know, to anybody you care for.   So all the people that are involved in this, I feel for them.   And hopefully everybody can learn from this, no matter who you are or how you were affected by it.  
   
 Q.   Would you like seeing this pairing in a couple of weeks?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, for sure.   Anytime you can play with a great guy like that, especially No.1 in the world right now, you learn from that.   You watch him.   He swings freely.   He controls his ball nicely.   He makes a lot of good putts.   
So obviously you can watch that and learn from that.   But obviously hopefully I can get a point or at least a half a point if I play against him.  
   
 Q.   Have you talked to Webb since he was selected?   And have you guys talked about perhaps pairing up again?   I know Tom hadn't said anything.   
BUBBA WATSON:   Obviously I've talked to him.   It was great to see him get picked.   Again, I haven't talked to Tom about teams, who is going to play with each other.   
Obviously I'd love to play with Webb.   We've done all right.   Obviously I think we'd have a target on our backs.   So hopefully if we do come out we can play good.   Hopefully I can calm him down.   He gets real nervous.   And hopefully I can calm Webb down and he can make some putts.  
   
 Q.   You didn't pull off that one shot, caught that last lip.   Was there a shot out there today that you did get just the way you wanted to?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, every birdie I made.   You know, like the one on 16, let's just go with that one, the one on 16, out of the rough.   
It could jump.   It could come out soft.   It came out perfect.   We played it to jump about five yards, trickled up there, and I made the putt.   
So obviously that one about two inches in the rough turned out good.   You're going to have ups and downs obviously.   After looking at it, I could have played the hole on 16 a bit different.   
But you live and learn.   And so I'm still in this thing.   I'm not really out of it yet.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT