BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 6, 2014
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. That's about as high as you could have shot today.BUBBA WATSON: No, it was good.  I missed some putts, but I had the one 3-putt, strong 2-putt on the last hole.  Bogey-free.  It's good.  We had a guy that played lights out, so he made it tough.Q. You had a lot of putts that were maybe an inch short.  How did you deal with that during the round?BUBBA WATSON: You just have to suck it up and be a man, I guess.  But, I knew I was hitting the ball good.  I've been hitting the golf ball good for about two months, but just can't score. So, today I scored a little bit.  But, still left a few shots out there.  Especially the 3-putt on 3.Q. Bogey-free, pretty impressive around this golf course.BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, I'll take it any day of the week.  Yesterday, I had two sloppy bogeys, but today I covered those up.  Still shot the same thing though, so.Q. Nice 66 today.  Talk about your third round a little bit.BUBBA WATSON: It was good.  I played a solid round.  I backed 4-under up with another 4-under.  We played pretty solid.  The guy I played with played a lot better.  Made a lot of long putts.  So, here I am, I'm still right where I want to be, to have a chance on Sunday.Q. There seems to be a lot of low scores out there.  Do you feel like you have one tomorrow in you?BUBBA WATSON: I hope.  So, it's just about making a few putts.  So, I missed a few today, but all in all, it was a great day. But I had a 3-putt after driving the green on number 3.  But the 2-putt on 18 tastes a lot better after making that.  So it's good to do that.Q. Do you feel like you're scoring a little bit now, with the ball striking that you've had over the last couple months?BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, the last couple months I think I was hitting it quite well.  The driver is working out quite nicely.  Just not scoring. I know that sounds weird, but just like you can feel like you're playing well, you're hitting the ball good, but a putt here or a putt there doesn't fall, and your momentum goes the other way.  So right now I got some momentum.  Just solid rounds of golf, so far.Q. Can you talk about the guy were you playing with today and what that was like?BUBBA WATSON: What was his name again? (Laughter.) No, Billy played good.  He's a great ball-striker.  When he gets his putter going, he can really score.  And that's what he did today.  The key is about making putts. On the PGA TOUR, how do you win golf tournaments or how do you perform at a high level?  It's making putts.  We can all hit the ball somewhat, so he putted really good today.  I thought I played good, you about he beat me by a few.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT