WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 26, 2021
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  ^ Start
 Q. Just take us through the day and all the different changes and the emotions of actually getting through to the round of 16.
 BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, what's crazy about it is you don't really control your own fate.  You're just hoping that it works out.  Obviously I got to win first and then Patrick Reed had to lose, or tie -- so a tie or a lose gets me a chance to get in there if I can win.
 Yeah, you've got to focus on your match, but at the same time you're kind of looking around seeing what all the other guys are doing, or at least I am.  I don't know about the other guys.
 So it's challenging that way where you want to get off to a good start.  But I could have won my match and still lost today.  It's really not my own fate in there.  But I put the ball in play.  I put pressure on my opponent this morning, and then I got lucky in the playoff to make the putt, and then he missed a short putt on the second hole.
 Q. What's been working so well for you this week in your game as you obviously head to the weekend?
 BUBBA WATSON:   Just keeping the ball in play.  Around here you've got to keep the ball in play.  I putted pretty decent.  Haven't made too many mistakes.  And luckily for me they've been a couple mistakes a day, if that.  Made a mistake on No. 2 today in the first match.
 I think I made a mistake on No. 3 the first day with Patrick, and then I made a mistake with Patrick on the last hole the first round.  It's just very few mistakes that I can think of.
 And then my fight yesterday, birdieing I think three of the last four to tie, which is a big help.  So I just kind of stayed in there.  Even though I was down I kept fighting, and even today I was fighting in that playoff.
 Q. Birdieing those last three or four holes yesterday, did that propel you into today and your win?
 BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, I thought I had a -- I had some momentum on my side.  I had no idea how my opponent was playing.  I don't look at anybody else's matches going into that day, and so I knew I was playing well.  I was starting to hit my driver where I wanted it to.  We were reading the greens halfway decent.
 I was looking forward to today.  I woke up feeling good.  I could sleep in.  Slept in until -- went to bed just before 9:30; woke up at 9:57 this morning.  I can do some sleeping.  So I slept in.  It was nice.  And then got ready for the day, and it felt good all day.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT