TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2019
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Seemed like one of those days where it was hard to get any momentum going.  What was it like inside the ropes?  
BUBBA WATSON: I just didn't make any putts.  Made a couple early to save, but then my wedge game, just couldn't get the wedges close.  A little bit of moisture on the ground; the pins on some humps.  You know, just tricky pins to get to made it difficult for me to hit my wedges close.   
And then to give that one back on No. 8, my 17th hole, that was pretty sad.  But other than that, it was a pretty good day.  Anything under par is pretty decent.  Any time you can play in a pro event and shoot under par you're doing all right, I guess.   
 Q.  Given that you're defending claim, had a lot of success here, what is it about the sightlines at TPC River Highlands?  
BUBBA WATSON: I think the golf course is just so fair.  You're always moving the ball forward.  No matter where you hit it, the ball is always going forward.  There are some trees in some places, but the rough is always fair.  You can always advance it.  That's all we ask and all I want in a the golf course.  I want to be able to advance it forward.  That means I can use my creativity and try shots and do things.   
Those are the memorable shots.  No one cares about me chipping out of the rough.  For me, that's what makes it so much fun.  You can hit shots, you can play shot, no matter what the rough is like.  You can kind of use the contour of the ground to move it forward and try and get on the green.   
 Q.  Given you won here three times, is the outlook it really doesn't matter what you open with considering the past success?  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, I mean, the way I won a couple of them are from behind.  I was way back, six back or so.  For me, it's just about getting momentum.  There was a couple shots -- I'm actually going to go to the range and hit a few putts and then also hit some shots.   
There were a couple shots that I let go just not thinking properly.  Seems like it was a slow day on out there with all the groups kind of backed up.  So just lost my train of thought on a couple shots.   
Going forward, just try to make a couple more putts, birdies, and hopefully good round on Sunday.   
 Q.  Get some comments on your day.  
BUBBA WATSON: I think it was a solid day.  At the end of the day we shot under par.  For me, I hit a couple wedges that I didn't like.  A little bit of wet ground, a little indecision in my head how the ball was going to react on the greens.  Some of the pins were we'll say on humps or right close to some humps, and so we are trying to -- you know, I was trying to be perfect instead of just hit the shots, and so it cost me a couple shots here and there.   
I just never got the ball close enough all day.  The par-5s I didn't execute as well as I would like to so made two pars there.   
 Q.  You've come from behind here, played well, won here.  Does that help you stay level headed no matter where you are on the scoreboard?  
BUBBA WATSON: For sure.  Two of my wins I think I was like six back, somewhere in that area.  You know, you just keep your head down and hopefully you get that day earlier.  But if it happens on Sunday where you shoot a low round and move up the leaderboard it's pretty good.   
Yeah, around this golf course you got to just know there is going to be birdies out there.  Today was a little difficult because a little bit of mist here and there.  Just made the ball react different on the greens with some shots.   
So, yeah, I'm happy with under par, and hopefully just keep improving every day.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT