THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2014
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. How do you assess the round?BUBBA WATSON: It was good for nine holes.  I made a par on 10.  10 holes. I lost focus on 11, it was a short hole.  Middle of the fairway, I just forget what I was doing.  I asked my caddie about four times what the distance was and I never got comfortable over the shot.  A lot of stuff was happening in the background.  It was my fault.  I just didn't get comfortable over it.  I plugged right next to the lip and had it hit backwards.  So made a quick triple there. Just never had anything.  Into the wind it makes the golf course very difficult or this kind of golf very difficult into the wind.  It's very tough.  Sad way to finish. Again on 18 I hit a good shot in there.  The wind drifted it and I was up against the back lip, where I couldn't hit a normal bunker shot.  Every time I hit it in the bunker it was either plugged or up against the lip.  So it was tough.Q. When you saw a lot of things were going on in the background, was it a problem with mobile phones?BUBBA WATSON: Oh, no, no.  There was about 40 people in our fairway, Inside The Ropes with cameramen, and I don't know, some other people and a bunch of other people.  So it makes it tough for me, because I lose focus real fast for me.  But there was no phone problem, there was no fan problem.  It was just all on me.  I didn't stay focused, didn't stay committed to what I was doing and it cost me dearly.Q. But we saw you making gestures, taking your hand up to your ear?BUBBA WATSON: No, no, they obviously are not watching it closely, because I never made that gesture at all.Q. (Inaudible.)BUBBA WATSON: Well, no, that's what I'm saying.  It's my fault.  Nobody else was having that problem, it was just me.  And I just let it go on that one hole and it cost me dearly.  If I focused a little bit there, I could hit a better shot and hopefully make a bogey instead of a triple. It's one of those things.  It's all on me.  It's just my fault.  I asked my caddie a few times.  I just never got focused or committed to that shot, like I should have been.Q. The whole group seemed to struggle.BUBBA WATSON: Well, if you looked, the wind picked up on the back nine, every hole felt like it was into the wind or crosswind.  It was very difficult.  I haven't checked yet, but I'm guessing the afternoon sort of wave, it got tougher as the day went on.  And you can see because the wind picked up.  The guys that played off early and the guys that teed off late, the scores changed because of weather.Q. Can you explain what you saw on the first hole.BUBBA WATSON: I didn't.  I didn't see anything.  When we got to the green Ernie said he hit, I guess, somebody right in the jaw and he said it wasn't good.  And you could tell Ernie was shaken up by it.  He's talking to me and you could easily tell he was shaken up by it.  You're not trying to hit a bad shot in, but when you hit somebody like that it's not a good scene, and it's very heart breaking.  Obviously you could tell he felt it.  I'm not saying that's why he struggled on that hole, but I'm pretty sure that's what it was.Q. (Inaudible.)BUBBA WATSON: Oh, it was plugged against the lip.  I could have -- there's a lot of options, but none of them were good.  So, yeah, it was just one of those things, I had no shot, and had to go backwards.Q. Any other options at 11?BUBBA WATSON: No, no, I was right next to the back of the lip.  So I had to come down steep.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT