THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2014
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Would you say today was an improvement over yesterday?  BUBBA WATSON: Well, obviously it was.  It was even today and 4-over yesterday.  It's just about today was trying to hang on, you know.  Hit a pretty good tee shot on 18.  Thought I hit a pretty good shot and it went too far on the second shot, and I made a quick bogey which cost me, which will probably miss by one.   Q.  Do you think you might miss the cut by one?  BUBBA WATSON: I think so.  Right now I'm like 97th or 98th or something.  So I don't see it jumping that far.  It could, though.  Don't get me wrong, it could, if it the wind stays up like it is.   Q.  So that last putt will sit with you for a while?  BUBBA WATSON: Oh, no, I've already lost it.  It's already good.  I can't wait to get back to see my wife and child.  If I make the cut, if somehow if a miracle happens, I'll be ready to go tomorrow and be pumped about it. But I don't let stuff linger.  I'm not that kind of person.  I've got more issues to worry about than missed putts.   Q.  You're saying basically yesterday didn't affect you at all?  BUBBA WATSON: No, not at all.  I had my hiccup on that one hole, made a triple and I was done with it.  And just tough golf the rest of the way.  Yeah, perfect dinner with some friends and slept like a baby, and then came out here and tried to play good golf.   Q.  How do you approach the rest of the afternoon?  BUBBA WATSON: Well, I probably can't get a flight out today.  I'll be sitting and watching coverage at the house, and hanging out with my friends, my buddies that are here.  Webb is staying in the house with me.  So me and Webb will probably be making fun of how bad we played today.  I don't know what he shot today.  Probably terrible.   Q.  Do you enjoy watching golf on TV?  BUBBA WATSON: I do like this, when I don't have anything else to watch.  At home, no, I won't sit and watch golf, unless it's the Masters.  Everybody loves the Masters.  (Laughter).   Q.  Do you watch the Masters?  BUBBA WATSON: I watch the replay a lot.  I've got two favorite years I watch all the time.  But over here, like yesterday morning we watched coverage and stuff, yeah, over here we'll watch it, because it's neat.  This is how golf is intended to be played.  So, yeah, it's fun to watch the bounces and everything.   Q.  Can you analyze Tiger's swing for us.  BUBBA WATSON: It looked good.  I don't know where the ball went.  I'm not very good to judge.  I think they all look good to me.  Every time he swings it, "That looked pretty good," and then he's in the rough.   Q.  You could always get another 18 in at Wallasey?  BUBBA WATSON: Exactly, I might get another round in if I can't get a flight out early enough tomorrow.   Q.  Is Kaleb here with you this week?  BUBBA WATSON: No, no, I'm saying when I get home.  I want to get home as fast as I can, if I miss it.   Q.  Does it bother at all that this tournament can be determined so much by the wind?  BUBBA WATSON: No, it doesn't -- it's golf.  It's the same thing with bounces.  We can sit here and pout about bounces all day long, too.  But you just play golf.  You get bad weather, you get bad weather.  Next tournament you probably won't.  It all equals out.  Just like golf.  Good bounces and bad bounces always equal out.   Q.  Golf has entered a new technology era.  How do you adjust?  BUBBA WATSON: I'm just going to play golf.  I'm still trying to make putts.  I don't search the Internet.  I turn off my phone, so I don't search the Internet.  No apps.  I don't watch news, I don't do anything.   Q.  There's a lot of people making much noise?  BUBBA WATSON: If you're going to pull this many people in a crowd you're going to have noise.  You're going to have noise two streets over that you're going to hear.  You're always going to have airplanes and helicopters.  You have to deal with it.  Some of us do it better than others, and you just have to move on.   Q.  You're the one that got everybody at a frenzy at the Ryder Cup.  BUBBA WATSON: Trying to grow the game.  At the Ryder Cup there's a lot of people that don't play golf.  There's a lot of sponsors that have probably never seen the golf course before.  So just trying to grow the game in a different way. That's what Ryder Cup is all about.  It's not drawing blood to one another, it's about growing the game of golf, back in the early days.  You probably knew that, though, since you're media.   Q.  I guess the question is would you rather have it say, look, you want to have your phones on, you want to talk, you don't really care --  BUBBA WATSON: What can you do?  There's no penalty for having your phone or taking a picture.  You can say, hey, don't do that.   Q.  You're a sports fan, would you attend a golf tournament where you can stay at home and get the better coverage that there is on TV?  BUBBA WATSON: Some coverage is not very fun to watch, just saying.  I don't mind watching an LPGA event.  They're always positive.  It would be rare to hear a negative comment.  So watching that, I don't mind watching it.  I hate the negative comments.  I mean, guys are trying their hardest.  We always hear, "Oh, that's terrible," this and that, this and that.  "I did this when I was 17 years old.  Shot 63 before."  (Laughter). So, no, that's why I don't watch coverage anymore, there's too much negative stuff going on in the world, not just golf, the whole world.  Just can't even watch that stuff.   Q.  (Inaudible.)  BUBBA WATSON: Oh, gosh, there's a lot.  There's not been one positive thing.  I'm waiting on that one.  Then I'll start reading.  Well, I can't read yet, but I'll start.   Q.  Why did you decide to take Internet off your phone?  BUBBA WATSON: You know what, when you're spending time with your wife and your family and your child, there's no reason to search scores.  There's no reason to see what the NBA is doing, football or baseball is doing.   Q.  You start to get into that smartphone addiction?  BUBBA WATSON: I wouldn't say smartphone, but I would say, you know, it was just -- you always looking at scores and updates, seeing who is getting traded from baseball, who is getting traded from NFL, from basketball, seeing what LeBron James is doing.  I said take it off, let's go back to the old days when it's just the family.  You spent family time together.   Q.  When was that that you did that?  BUBBA WATSON: Start of the year.   Q.  Are you saying that --  BUBBA WATSON: I'm not saying anything right now.   Q.  This may be true, but what is the analysis versus the negative? Is there a difference in your mind (inaudible)?  BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, the whole year is about rejoicing for me.  But when you look at it sometimes you can get too pumped up, you think you're the greatest golfer in the world.  And sometimes you can get too much bad talk or negative talk when where you think you're the worst golfer in the world.  Next week I could probably win; this week I'll probably miss the cut.  It fluctuates.  I'm trying to stay away from negative and positive, just remain even keel.  As long as my wife loves me and my child thinks daddy is the greatest, then I'm good to go.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT