THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 4, 2014
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Bubba, 67 today compared to that 68 yesterday.   You only had one bogey today.   How did you play today compared to yesterday?  
BUBBA WATSON:   I played about the same.   You know, I didn't make as many mistakes today.   I guess the wind on the front nine holes wasn't blowing that hard so I could guess right.  
The back 9, the Front 9, I had some trouble coming down the stretch, just trying to guess the wind.   The wind started swirling a little bit.   
But held it together, you know, I wish I'd have made a couple more and not made that one bogey, that sloppy bogey, but all in all it's good.   It's a good first two days, and come out and play a little better on the weekend, we can move up pretty quick.  
   
 Q.   Cool and dry today, hot and humid yesterday.   What does the golf course look like on a day like today versus the way it played yesterday?  
BUBBA WATSON:   It still played soft.   You know, it played soft.   Sun's just now starting to come out, so it's going to firm up a little bit, but not much.   Around here right now it's pretty soft.   You can fly it right at the holes.   
Just a couple pin placements you might want to land a little short, but other than that, though, it's just the usual stuff.  
   
 Q.   The score says you played a little bit better today.   Did you feel like you played a little bit better?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, the ball striking was still there.   Yesterday the ball striking was pretty really good.   
I made a couple more putts.   Putted really solid today.   Didn't make all the bogeys I made yesterday.   But the last five or six holes it got windy, it got dusty.   So guessing right was the hard thing, just like all day yesterday.  
You know, I'll take it.   It's a start.   It's two days.   Made the cut and hopefully we'll improve on the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Birdied both of those par‑5s.   With only two of them out there, do you feel like it's almost critical you birdie both of them every time out?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, because you know, for everybody, not just for me, for everybody it's your chance to have a short wedge in there or get there, depending on the wind.  
Today, yeah, I hit it on the green and two‑putted and hit one just short of the green and two‑putted.   So yeah, pretty simple birdies today.  
   
 Q.   Safely into the cut.   Jimmy Walker is having some problems.   The FedEx thing, does that enter into your mind at all?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No, no.   I could care less about the FedExCup.   I'm trying to win this golf tournament.   Trying to win the next golf tournament that I play in.   
FedExCup and really when the playoffs started.   That's when we all started thinking about it.   Right now we're not thinking about it.   But as soon as that first playoff event happens, that's when we really get focused on the FedExCup.   And again, it's the same thing at the FedExCup, you're trying to play good golf.  
   
 Q.   How do you celebrate the 4th?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Sleep.   Hopefully a lot of sleep.   Maybe a good old‑fashioned cheeseburger.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT