MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2019
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Nice round. I guess it clicked about 8. What was it?
BUBBA WATSON: No, today was just ‑‑ you put pressure on yourself the first couple days because you want it so bad. We know, anybody that's won here, anybody that's won a golf tournament knows what it feels like to win and so you want it so bad.
And then today driver was a lot better, iron shots were a little bit more crisp, and then, and again no wind. I was just telling them in an interview in there, the wind is not as bad, so it's easier to get the clubs right. Doesn't mean you're going to hit a good shot but you have a better chance of getting the clubs right and getting the distance right that way. 
And the greens are starting to speed up a little bit today, but they're still a good pace to make a lot of putts and as you can see there's a couple low scores today already, Webb, I guess Webb's still out there, but I think there was an 8‑under and I think Webb might be 8‑under as well. 

Q. Yeah, you said you were uncomfortable the other day but it's starting to feel like, I guess you're swinging well?
BUBBA WATSON: No, I mean I feel good, but I'm just so far back, it's just another good day ‑‑ and who knows what the weather is. Right now the weather's looking bad. 
So we don't know our tee times yet, if we're going to go early in the morning or late or just do normal and maybe play on Monday, but so it will be interesting and we know when that, knowing that another 5‑under, some heroic score in tough weather moves you up the board and have a shot at it. 

Q. You go birdie, birdie, birdie, how does that feel? Is it just, like I'm rolling now?
BUBBA WATSON: It's good. Today was 145 yards, so it's a perfect little soft wedge into 12. And again like I said, it was no wind. So you could, you knew what it was going to do. So I hit it in there close, made the putt. 
Just a good tee shot, good 7‑iron into 13. So 2‑putt birdie there. 
And then a great little wedge, 146 hole and I had to fly it just over 130 to get it on top. Went down there to about a foot and tapped it in. 
And then an 8‑iron into 15, 2‑putt birdie. 
So it's one of those things where that stretch before where, in 2012, I had that same stretch and made a couple birdies and we have seen a few people in history do that. So you get it rolling just right and get the right distances, you can make a stretch of birdies there.

Q. One last odd question about caddies. We got a couple playing injured. D.J.'s caddie broke his hand I think and Kis's has a broken toe. What do they mean to you and has Ted ever had an issue, played injured for you?
BUBBA WATSON: Oh, Teddy's got a lot of issues. 
(Laughter.)
No, you know what, it's funny you say that because he did, this morning he goes, hey, man, while you're putting I'm going to go tape my toe. And I said, what's wrong with your toe? He says, I don't know, man, it's hurting really bad. He thinks it might be an ingrown toenail, I don't know what he said. But I just let him do what he does. 
But, no, I mean we have all had some injuries here and there, we had some strained back, shoulders, and obviously lifting the bag like that and doing all the things, holding the umbrella in certain times, I mean their shoulders wear out. That's why it's amazing to watch Fluff still get around golf courses. But he's a legend so he can do that. 

Q. You guys have a lot of fun with social media, looking at what you and Ted did with the thing on Friday. Talk to us a little bit about how you guys came up with some of the fun ideas?
BUBBA WATSON: Well it's just taking stuff and making it into a funny situation. A lot of times ‑‑ not you guys but a lot of times the media takes it and runs the other way. And so none of y'all, but the other guys, the guys that aren't allowed in the gates here, those guys. 
So it's one of those things you just take it and have fun with it. And obviously, not to bring it up again, but I'm going to, but in Mexico, Bryson got a little hot, which we all have done that's played golf, anybody that he's ever played golf has got hot before and we just tried to make light of it and fun of it because we all make mistakes, anybody on this property or outside this property's made a mistake in their day and if they say they haven't then I would love to meet them. 
But so we just try to have fun with it and we just take situations that we have been in and just try to run with them and see if we can do some stuff. We got a bunch more playing and there's and it's funny because a lot of players are lining up, they want to be involved in it. So it's a pretty fun thing.

Q. You are still very much within striking distance, can you talk a little bit about what you mindset is knowing you have won here before?
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, the mind set is just, tomorrow's going to be a tough day, so that's the beauty of it is that a lot of people are going to have a shot because I mean right now if we played tomorrow, I saw 17 miles an hour wind, rain, and so you're talking about the golf course changing completely. And then pressure on top of that. 
So you're talking about if, let's say the lead stays at 9, you know I'm at, what am I at 5? Something like that. So within shouting distance. And anything can happen, especially at a major, pressure, somebody gets out early, let's say they have the less wind and somebody shoots 8‑under. 
So my goal is just to come out here and just try to do the same thing and then dictate shots off of weather conditions, but hopefully another 5‑under or something even better to have a shot at it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT