WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 9, 2014
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Solid play today, 4‑under par, you made a good charge, but not quite enough.   If we can get some comments on your round?
BUBBA WATSON:   It was good. I went bogey‑free, bogey‑free around here is always good.   You know, at the beginning of the day, the beginning of the day I was just trying to have a solid finish and then somehow sneak up that leaderboard and somehow I did that, so all in all, it's a great week, a great day. 

Q.   After four rounds, how would you assess the golf course, the re‑design? 
BUBBA WATSON:   Well, the guys that always finish Top‑10, they always think the golf course is great. 
I think it needs to mature a little bit, I think tweak it here and there.   I played‑‑ I never looked at the green on No.9 because for me being a lefty, all it takes is the ball going a little bit to the right and rolls off in the green in the water. I think it's very severe.   But I mean, we are used to that around here.   It's really tough around here anyway.   18 is the toughest driving hole we ever play.   You know, it's always into the wind and it showed, all the balls in the water today, all the balls in the water for the week.

Q.   What do you know about Patrick?   He's had a great season already and looks like he might be one of your Ryder Cup teammates at this point. 
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, he's playing good. Obviously I don't know much about him.   He's real young but obviously a great player.   A lot of confidence, and that's really what it is.   It takes a lot of confidence.   You see that with a lot of guys; when you have confidence and he's backing it up with his game.   He has the same ball flight I think every time, a little draw and putts the ball really well. 

Q.   Where are you in your game?   You have a win this year and now a T‑2 in a WGC, you must like the direction it's going. 
BUBBA WATSON:   Well, that's good.   Obviously my whole goal this year is to make The Ryder Cup Team and so that's what I'm working towards.   You know, I'm where I want to be.   My ball‑striking I wish was a little bit better.   But it could be just‑‑ certain golf courses just scare me half to death and around here scared me a lot but I played it really well this week.   Greens were rolling really good.
No matter what you think of the golf course, the greens were perfect, some of the best we've played in a long time. 

Q.   Good play, another great tournament for you, did you have a number in mind when you were out there today? 
BUBBA WATSON:   No, I didn't.   You know, it was one of those things where I just wanted to go out there and play solid golf and somehow shoot 4‑under.   I knew under par would move me up the leaderboard to.   Get to 4‑under, bogey‑free, a lot of things had to happen to go my way and it did.   Somehow I lost by one. 
But I did that a couple years ago here, I came in second here, lost by one before.   But I played good, I played solid, so I'll accept it and I'll get better next time. 

Q.   What have you been up to for the last 25 minutes? 
BUBBA WATSON:   I sat in a room by myself, me and my caddie, and watched and saw a birdie by Donaldson and thought, uh‑oh, there's that chance, and then he gave one back on 18.
And Reed just kept getting up‑and‑down, kept hitting great shot after great shot and then he played so smart on 18.   I mean, that's what you have to do in that situation.   You know, he came out one shot ahead.   That's all he needed to do.

Q.   Is it a primary part of your focus, making sure you're on the American Team, whatever year it is, how do you feel you're doing?
BUBBA WATSON:   I've got to be moving up that board a little bit trying to make that team, hopefully get noticed by the captain or assistant captains.   But there's still a long way to go, so I need to keep performing.   I have some big tournament the coming up, got a few big ones coming up. 
So looking forward to it.   Everything is going in the right direction, my focus is right, my thinking around the golf course is good, and my putting stroke is working right now.   I'm putting the ball really well, been working on it really hard, and that's really weighs doing it, all these Top 10s I've had, four in a row now, and that's the reason why.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT