NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL WORLD CHALLENGE
December 7, 2013
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Your chip‑in at 3 was the shot of the day.   And the bad weather.   
BUBBA WATSON:   Exactly.   
   
 Q.   Interesting spectator watching that video?  
BUBBA WATSON:   It was nice.   It was playing tough today in the wind today.   
   
 Q.   You started the day, it was cold, it was rainy.   At the end of the day it was sunny and really windy.   What was the like out there?  
BUBBA WATSON:   The front nine was not too bad.   First two holes was a little wet, but got better and then the Back 9 just got windy.   They turned on the fans.   And those last par‑3s coming down the stretch were really difficult.   Somehow I hit the green on the one on the water, like 15.   
So I played solid.   It was fun, but yeah, it was really windy.  
   
 Q.   You have a chance to play in the final group on Sunday with Tiger.   
BUBBA WATSON:   That will be fun.   Any time you can play with the best, it's fun watching him.   At the same time I'm going to try to play my best golf and hopefully get a win.  
   
 Q.   (No question).   Three‑putt on the last.   You must have taken some positives out there?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Six birdies.   Are you satisfied with that number today?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Very satisfied.   You know, obviously let one go on the last hole, but the shot of the day was the chip‑in.   When you look at that, it all equals out.   
Very happy, very positive.   I know how difficult it was today.   I made the turn at even par and somehow shot 3‑under.   So when you look at it that way you don't really think about the bogey on the last.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow's conditions on Sunday, it's going to be like it was on Thursday and Friday.   Cool, relatively calm.   Does that play into your hand when you have to attack this golf course?  
BUBBA WATSON:   I don't know.   This golf course is very difficult.   You know, right now there's a pretty good player that's leading.   He's won here before.   He knows this golf course pretty well.  
But I'm going to come out there and just play.   I've shot under par my last few rounds.   I just want to keep doing that.   If I can shoot in the 60s, give myself a chance and we'll just see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT