RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 26, 2013
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   It's not something to slouch about, 67, but I know coming down the stretch there it could have been a lot more for you. 
BUBBA WATSON:   Well, I played pretty good.   I made a long putt on 15 I think it was, and 16 and 18 are playing tough into the wind.   It's always a little tougher.   For me 18 tee shot is really hard for me to hit the fairway.   I don't think I've ever hit the fairway there. 
You know, it's one of those things.   Just got to make my par and then just go into the house.   I'm sitting good.   It's a good start to the week. 

Q.   Ball‑striking is still really solid, No.1 in greens.   You made some more putts today, putter coming around.   It feels like it's building for a really solid weekend. 
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, as long as I can keep my patience and I can just have fun out there, and hopefully this weather just doesn't bother me too bad, and then we'll have fun this weekend.

Q.   I felt like the wind today was really fluctuating out there, especially when you got down in the valley.   Was it tricky to read it out there most of the day?
BUBBA WATSON:   No, it was pretty straightforward all day.   Just you were trying to guess how much it was going to help it or hurt it.   But no, it didn't really swirl.   Like yesterday, yesterday guys said it was swirling a little bit, but for us it was pretty solid all day.   We knew which way it was going. 

Q.   You put yourself in contention for the weekend on the golf course.   You said it doesn't fit your style, so with that how have you been able to score so well on this golf course here at Glen Abbey? 
BUBBA WATSON:   You know, I haven't been in too much trouble.   When I hit it in the rough I have a decent lie or miss it in the right spot so I can hit the green in regulation.   I missed three greens in two days, so I'm just hitting my irons well, playing smart golf, and then I made a few putts. 

Q.   Well, you complained about your putting in round 1 when you had 34.   A little better on this day.   Do you think you can find a hot putter on these small greens?
BUBBA WATSON:   Well, as long as I can just keep doing what I'm doing, I don't need a hot one if I can just keep it going.   If I shoot 9‑under on the weekend I'll be doing all right.

Q.   You haven't won since the Masters.   Is it something where you're really comfortable here and you really are looking forward to breaking that trend and getting back in the winner's circle?
BUBBA WATSON:   You know, we play to win, so yeah, I want the opportunity.   Sunday afternoon I want the chance to win on the back nine.   It took me five years to win my first one, so I'm not really worried about if I never really win again.   I've won a few and play the PGA TOUR.   I'm pretty happy where I'm at, but I'm going to give it my best this weekend. 

Q.   Can you assess that round?
BUBBA WATSON:   It was good.   I made two sloppy bogeys there in the middle‑‑ not quite the middle but the middle.   I played solid, hit my irons just as good as I did yesterday, and only missed two greens, so it was a good round. 

Q.   How does it feel to be back in the hunt?
BUBBA WATSON:   It's really nice.   Any time you have a chance Sunday afternoon is when you want the chance, on the back nine to have a chance to win.   Right now I'm in good position.   Hunter looked like he was playing pretty good and there was another guy at 11, I think.   I'm still pretty far back, but we've still got two more days.

Q.   This isn't quite a home game for you, but you have some family here and stuff like that.   Does it make it a little more fun to come up here?
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, for sure.   I've got a lot of family, a lot of friends here, so it's nice to come here and play, especially this good weather, it's always good, too. 

Q.   The two par‑5s you didn't capitalize on today.   They're playing pretty tough?
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, they're into the wind.   The final two are into the wind.   You know, I hit a shot that I thought was pretty good.   It bounced into the heavy rough on 16.   And then 18 I've never in my career hit that fairway.   I figured I wasn't going to hit that fairway, so it makes it a little tough. 

Q.   Good having two par‑5s at the end on the weekend?   Things could change quickly?
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, for sure.   The back nine has three par‑5s, and so yeah, those holes coming down the stretch are obviously gettable.   You make three eagles you're really going to jump up the leaderboard quick. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT