CIMB CLASSIC
October 26, 2013
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, so I'm playing obviously a little bit better, but I hit three swings on the first day that cost me some doubles, three doubles, and I shot 6‑over, so there's my six shots.   You know, it's new irons, trying them out, got to learn to trust them.   I hit a lot of wedges.   These are my old wedges, so I'm used to those.   Driver is the same.   And then I made some putts.   You know, when you make putts on a golf course, you can play pretty good, and I played with Keegan the first two days and saw him make putts left and right, and so I just made some putts today.   
   
 Q.   Obviously there's a lot of trouble out there; this wouldn't be a typical prototype golf course for you or someone like Gary Woodland, but it shows if you make some putts and hit some good wedges that you've got a shot?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, for sure.   Gary is a solid ball striker, but for me off the tee it's really tough, really demanding.   I didn't know the course was like that, so when I got here it makes it even tougher.   The rough, I catch a lot of fliers out of this rough, so it's hard for me to judge the distance, especially with these firm greens.   Soft fairways and firm greens is a weird combination, so it makes it tough.   But obviously if you're playing good and you're striking the ball well and making putts, you can obviously play any golf course out there.  
   
 Q.   In terms of being a no‑cut event, probably you might have been out of here if it was a 36‑hole cut.   Nice to be able to know you're going to have four rounds when you've had some time off and be able to ease your way into the season and hopefully have a good finish tomorrow, and who knows.   
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, that's why I came over here is because I knew that I was going to get four days in.   Same as in China next week.   Getting four days in to practice, to see how I am with these irons, see where I need to tweak, and then have a few months off after that.   Yeah, it's a good test, but you know that you're going to come over here and you're going to get to play four days and give it a whirl.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT