THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2013
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible).
BUBBA WATSON:  It's very important.  That's the only ball
I hit in the high rough today.  So I missed two fairways today.
One was in the cut and for some reason I keep pulling them pretty
bad.  I pulled it and a tough lie, and somehow two-putted.  That
was a tough two-putt over that mound, especially with how slick
these greens are getting.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:  I hit it better.  It was a good lie, but
right behind it was the wispy grass.  It caught the club and shot
it down.  The two-putt was the most important.  But obviously that
kept me going.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:  If you're going to hit an iron off the tee
you can hit it a little less than most.  On No. 17, I had 247 to
the hole and I hit 6-iron.  Some guys -- but I played it to run.
It ran 50 yards, because it's getting so baked out, the 6-iron is
still running that far.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:  I used it once today.  I didn't really
need to but I did it anyway.  I hit the fairway with it.  I only
hit it once.  I think each guy hit it once today.  I hit it on No.
9.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:  It all depends on the wind.  The rumor is
the wind is supposed to be totally opposite tomorrow, and the next
three days.  You never know what that's going to bring.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:  I didn't really hit it.  I really played a
slice over the crowd.  But -- and then Colsaerts hit his rescue
2-iron, it wasn't like I was trying to kill it or anything.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:  No, I wouldn't do that coming in.  Again,
it was all hearsay, all weatherman talk.  And you never know what
that's going to be.  This is the best we've seen it.  Again, this
is the toughest I've ever seen on the first day, where the pin
locations with the burnout greens, firmness of the greens,
firmness of the fairways.  I'd say if it stays like this the next
three days, it's going to be completely, completely brown.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:  Yeah, if I shoot 80, I'd probably be here
only one more.  I just had to stay in there and keep focused on
what I was doing, so I fought back a little bit.
Q.  How strange is that?
BUBBA WATSON:  That it hasn't rained?  Strangely it
hasn't rained since we've been here.  Right.  The golf course is
right in front of us.  There's a couple of holes, but just like
every golf course you play, even in the U.S., there's going to be
one or two holes on 18 holes that everyone thinks is weird.  It's
not too bad.  It's right in front of you.  You've got to hit good
shots, just like any other course.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:  Every British Open is about the same, got
to hit low runners.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT