TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2013
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   If someone had offered you you'll be in the lead going into Sunday, you probably would have taken it, but maybe not the way you would have got there?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah.   You know, I hit some shots today that were really good, some quality shots.   Got a couple bad breaks here and there, but that's golf.   You know, at the end of the day I still have a chance on Sunday and that's what we're always looking for on the weeks that we're playing.  
   
 Q.   I was with you here your first win here at the TPC at River Highlands, what is it about this place that clearly does something for you?  
BUBBA WATSON:   You know, I think the golf course just sets up so well for me.   I love the tee shots off of it, a lot of cut shots for me which I love to do off the tee.   And I've got a lot of wedges because of the way I hit the ball, so I've got a lot of wedges, a lot of short irons in here and I can make putts every once in a while so that's good.  
   
 Q.   We like watching you because we always know how you feel.   You're one of those players it's fairly easy to read what's going on there.   How do you take this having had a lead and maybe given it back a little more than you want to going into the final round?  
BUBBA WATSON:   I take it with pleasure.   You know, I'm sitting here going I got a chance to win.   You know, I got another chance to win.   It would be my fifth win.   Never thought a guy from Bagdad, Florida named Bubba would have five wins for TOUR, or a chance for five wins on TOUR.  
   
 Q.   I think you'll get more than that.   We'll watch you tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Bubba, a lot of peaks and valleys in the round of golf, got off to a good start, but then struggled to the finish.   
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah.   If you go back and look, I hit a good tee shot on the par‑5.   That's the farthest I've hit it all week into the wind.   Rolled through the bunker to a bad lie.   Just one of those things.   You know, I made a putt from off the green a couple times today, so just kind of equals out.  
   
 Q.   Bottom line is you're right in great position to win this golf as you head into the final round.   
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah.   I'm looking forward to it.   This is what we sign up to do, have a chance to win on Sunday and got a pretty good position to be in right now, I'm tied for the lead, and one good round tomorrow, then I can walk away with the tournament title.  
   
 Q.   You said after Thursday's round you were a little tired.   Did you get some rest last night?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, yeah.   Everything is looking good.   Angie let me sleep in a little bit, so it was good.  
   
 Q.   With the man who had the lead beginning this day, a co leader heading into Sunday.   Bubba, how would you assess this round of golf today, three birdies going out, three bogeys coming in?  
BUBBA WATSON:   You know, it's golf.   I played great on the front, hit a lot of quality shots, made some putts from off the green.   Then I hit a shot on the par‑5, what is that, 13.   I haven't got to that far bunker all week and somehow it rolled through the bunker and got a really horrific lie.   Unfortunate break on 15 as well.   17 is just me.   Just bad shot.   But the other ones were just kind of some iffy breaks, but I made some putts from off the greens.   So really it's a solid day.   Still tied for the lead, so still leader, I guess, and got a good chance for 18 holes tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How do you put some of those tough breaks behind you and a few bad swings to focus on the opportunity that you do have?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Just have some dinner.   You know, I don't take golf with me after I sign the score card.   So when I go home, play with my boy, hang out with my wife, watch a little TV and get ready for tomorrow and hopefully play better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   You've had great success on this golf course.   How much of an advantage is that when you step to that first tee on Sunday?  
BUBBA WATSON:   I'm full of energy when I get here, this golf tournament, Travelers is a great sponsor, but for me this golf course always suits me eye.   I'm looking forward to it.   Know I have some quality play here.   I know I can play in certain conditions here, so I'm looking forward to the challenge.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No.   It might look like it, but no, I'll do the same thing, try to make birdies around this golf course.   Try to limit your mistakes.   And yeah, it's still golf.   Still 18 holes.  
   
 Q.   How were the conditions out there in 7 of the last 24 golfers were under par today.   
BUBBA WATSON:   The wind was up today.   The course is firmer than it was the first couple days.   
You know, we're used to rain around here, so it's usually softer.   But it's holding up nice, and I think we've never seen the golf course like this, as firm as it is and as firm as some of these greens are, it's hard to get to certain pins so a lot of people played probably safe.  
   
 Q.   If it's like this tomorrow, do you change your strategy at all?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No, I mean it's still the same shots.   You know, you play safe, and then obviously coming down the stretch if you're one back, two back or whatever, you get more aggressive, or if you're leading by a bunch, kind of play a lot smarter.  
   
 Q.   Bubba, at 17 you brought the club back on the tee ball and you stopped halfway and looked back.   What happened there?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Just bad thoughts.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Well, if you look at the pin, it's a real dicey pin, close to being illegal.   It's a hump back there.   So on a short hole like that you gotta have, I don't know if you call it tricky or goofy pins, but that's what you have to have.   So we know it going in that's going to be very difficult.   I hit my tee shot right where I wanted to and then for me it was very difficult after that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT