U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2013
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Birdied the last hole, make dinner taste better?
BUBBA WATSON:   I missed two greens today.   I played well.   Yesterday I had about a four‑hole stretch there where it cost me a tournament.
I knew I was playing good, so I'm looking forward to trying to shoot a number like Rickie did today.

Q.   How did you find the conditions?   What did you use on that shot?
BUBBA WATSON:   Oh, my 64 degree.   There's no way to stop it.   Somehow my ball stopped there in the middle of the green, but it shouldn't have.   I three‑putted, it cost me a bogey there, as well. 

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:   I was more nervous about if it was going to stop on the green.   If it went five more feet, I'm chipping from 20 yards short.

Q.   How difficult is that to chip?
BUBBA WATSON:   I've putted it three times in my life in a tournament.   When you're playing with your boys, you do it all the time.   But in a tournament about three times.

Q.   How did you find the conditions?
BUBBA WATSON:   Tough.   It's getting tougher.   It's getting drier.   And the pin placements, it's really tough.

Q.   Mike Davis said this might have been the most accessible day, did you buy that?
BUBBA WATSON:   No.   You can say a lot of stuff.   That doesn't mean it's true.   The Internet is not always true, you know? 

Q.   How do you think it will play tomorrow?
BUBBA WATSON:   Well, I mean obviously the scores‑‑ a couple of guys are taking it kind of low right now, they're getting under par, 2‑under, but they've got the tough finishing holes coming up. 
Tomorrow is going to be‑‑ everybody is going to try for that trophy, so it's going to get tougher.   It makes the nerves pop up more.   When you're playing like me, you're not in the pack, so you don't really care.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:   He hasn't been all week.   This is something U.S. Opens, we've always known about this, it's nothing new to us.   So we've just got to play golf the best we can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT