THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
May 31, 2013
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BUBBA WATSON:   Yesterday I didn't make any putts, today I just made some putts.   Same thing as yesterday, just today I made the putts.   And that was the difference, just smart golf.   Just played to spots and somehow not make too many bogeys.

Q.   With this stuff kicking up, did it bother you much?
    BUBBA WATSON:   No, we played in the afternoon, started in the afternoon so we knew it was windy.   We knew it was going to happen later today.   So we saw it was tough.   People were shooting some high numbers.   People were shooting some good numbers.   You just have to go out there.   You know you can do it.   You stay focused and committed to each shot.

Q.   Shooting well is the preference to keep on playing or go in the morning?
    BUBBA WATSON:   Again, it's going to be like it was this last round.   The wind died down, made it a lot easier to play the holes.   It made No. 12 a lot easier with no wind. 
    So coming in tomorrow morning, there won't be thatch wind, so hopefully not thatch wind.   That should be the normal thing, is there's not thatch wind, it should be easy to play the last couple of holes. 

Q.   When you've got to make the quick turn like this, is there anything you have to do differently than how you're prepping for a regular round?
    BUBBA WATSON:   No, if I can come in and make some pars in the morning hopefully I can get a little nap in and then be ready for the afternoon round.   It won't be anything different.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
    BUBBA WATSON:   I think the game was great.   This golf course is tough.   It really doesn't matter week to week how you're playing, it matters how you're playing that one week at that moment.   This golf course is tough.   I love this golf course, I've played here many years.   I never really finished that high, but I love this area and I love the golf course.

Q.   There was such a thing last year with the cellphones, was it cleaned up or was it an issue?
    BUBBA WATSON:   Bad weather today (laughter).
    I don't play Tampa anymore because of allergies.   This is another one I'm close to not playing because of allergies.   With all that wind, with the stuff flying in the air.   Every day of my life I take allergy pills, nose spray and eye drops.   With the stuff flying around, it's just allergy stuff.   When I get hot, trying to cool my neck so that my body is not producing a bunch of junk. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT