WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 21, 2013
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BUBBA WATSON:   So I made it to Friday.   I've only made one match, but I made it to Friday.  
   
 Q.   You've beaten one of our own, Chris Wood, and produced some quality shots at the end.   How satisfying is it to do that under pressure?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Very satisfying.   I missed the cut last week, so I just worked on my game, worked on my mental focus, and hit some key shots down the stretch.   We both played better this afternoon.   Yesterday with the cold weather we all struggled a little bit.   We both made birdies, and we just kept tying, and luckily I made some birdies down the stretch.  
   
 Q.   Some thoughts on your match with Jim Furyk tomorrow?  
BUBBA WATSON:   It'll be fun.   Any time you can go forward and get to the next match, it's always a pleasure.   He's a great competitor.   He's going to think his way around the golf course, and I'm just going to beat it and try to fight it and try and make birdies.  
   
 Q.   The Masters defense is not too far away now.   How exciting are you about that?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Very excited.   To be there and hopefully have my son walk the par‑3 with you, it'll be a blast.  
   
 Q.   How about the Champions dinner, what's on the menu?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Some southern cooking.  
   
 Q.   Talk about round 2.   
BUBBA WATSON:   My opponent in round 2 is Jim Furyk.   Jim Furyk is one of the greats of the game.   He's going to be a competitor, he's going to think his way around the golf course.   And I'm not a great of the game, and I'm probably just going to beat it and slash it around and hopefully make some birdies and somehow come out on top.   
   
 Q.   You've done well here at this course particularly.   What is it about this course that kind of suits you or that you like?  
BUBBA WATSON:   You know, playing out in the desert you can see the fairways.   You have definition.   You have cactus, rocks and you have fairway.   You have green grass.   So for me I can visualize my shot a lot easier.   A lot of the shots call for me to hit a cut off the tee, which is great for me because that's what I played being left‑handed.   There's a lot of things that catch my eye that I can focus on.   You're hitting towards the target, toward the green.   It's the same thing, you have cactus and you have green grass, and so I can always see my sight lines really well.  
   
 Q.   And then around the greens, this course obviously has the tiered greens, lots of slope, but for someone like you that allows you to be pretty imaginative or creative and would keep you not necessarily interested but challenged around the greens?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, it keeps me focused.   You know me, I lose focus a lot, but around here you have to stay focused.   You've got difficult putts, just a two‑putt to tie the hole.   You've got difficult chips to try and win the hole or tie the hole.   Hitting iron shots in there, you can feed it off a lot of humps and bumps and get it close to the hole.   So for me it keeps me focused.   It always makes me focus on my shot and think about where I'm going to hit it and help me pick out the right target.  
   
 Q.   How wild was yesterday?  
BUBBA WATSON:   It was crazy.   It showed in our match yesterday.   We didn't make a birdie.   We gave some holes here and there because of cold weather, your hands, your feel, everything.   
And then today I made an eagle and four birdies, and he made four birdies, I think.   It was a close match all day, but today was real good golf.   
   
 Q.   Did you make any snowmen, throw any snowballs?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Not out on the course, but at the house I did because my little one, first time he's seen snow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT