WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 1, 2012
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Mickelson shot the same score, what is it about the golf course that suits the lefties? 
    BUBBA WATSON:   You know, it sets up good for a little cutoff the tee and I think he likes to cut it as well as I do.   So for 11 tees, it just fits our aye pretty good for the little cut shot off the tee.

Q.   Good preparation last week, we watched you in Bermuda in the Grand Slam event, you didn't play too badly and looked pretty relaxed.   Was that good preparation for here?
    BUBBA WATSON:   It was.   I had a couple weeks off, didn't touch a club so getting over there for a couple days, having fun with the boys; I saw what I needed to work on and hopefully I can fix it and I showed today I fixed it a little bit.   Had a little bit more practise.

Q.   Masters Champion, green exact, you've got it; the greens out here /WH‑RBGS you're a bit away from the hole, you have all sorts of humming?
    A.S and hollows /*BGS tile, do you like that sort of thing? 
    BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, the greens are rolling so good out here, these are a little slower than Augusta, but they are rolling so true.   You can make a lot of putts out here.

Q.   How deep do you think you're going to have to go to win this thing? 
    BUBBA WATSON:   I think you have to go pretty deep.   I mean, you're looking, probably 20‑something under it looks like.

Q.   I'll give you 22, would you take it now?
    BUBBA WATSON:   Yes, would I.   And I'd sit and watch everybody. 

Q.   66 must represent a pretty good day's work? 
    BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, it was.   I had a couple loose shots but I had a lot of great shots and added up to 6‑under.   A few guys were at 6‑under and they said it was tied for the low score, course record around here, so it's not bad. 

Q.   And what particular part of the game stood out that really helped you? 
    BUBBA WATSON:   Putted really well.   I made a lot of key putts.   I made three putts for bogey that I needed.   Made a few birdie putts.   Made one long eagle putt, so just really the putting.   Everybody is going to hit a lot of fairway the around here.   The fairways are generous but it comes down to rolling the putts in. 

Q.   Going to need a low score to win this thing? 
    BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, that's for sure.   Especially if the weather is like this.   The weather is perfect and the conditions are great, so there's going to be a lot of birdies. 

Q.   Seems like you and Peter were doing birdie after birdie out there, were you playing off each other a bit today?
    BUBBA WATSON:   We all started off pretty good.   You know, we just kept it going, kept the momentum going and nobody was down in the group, so obviously positive energy so everybody was just focussed on the game and kept making birdies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT