THE RYDER CUP
September 29, 2012
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BUBBA WATSON:   We had opportunities, and they beat us fair and square.   For us, we wanted to go back out there and redeem ourselves and we know how good of a putter he is.   He didn't putt as well as he wanted to in the morning match. 
So he just got in a rhythm.   It's so hard to gets in a rhythm on alternate‑shot, you're hitting every other shot.   He got in a rhythm this afternoon and made the putts.   He hit his spot and did everything he wanted to do and made a lot of key putts that he needed to. 

Q.   When you hit that shot out of the trees‑‑
BUBBA WATSON:   He hit me on the back. 

Q.   Did that get you a little‑‑
BUBBA WATSON:   I'm really claustrophobic, I don't like big crowds and I don't like people touching me.   It's something that happened to me at the Masters, a couple people hit me in the back, and not slapped me in the back, hit me in the back.   I don't really like that. 

Q.   How has this course played to the advantage of you/the American Team? 
BUBBA WATSON:   I think it's just we were all playing good coming in here.   I think this golf course doesn't favor just one team.   I think it's built for everybody to hit good shots, out of the trees or whatever.   We were just playing good last week and we are still playing good this week.

Q.   Where did you get the idea to have people yelling and screaming on the first tee? 
BUBBA WATSON:   Just, let's make it fun.   The game of should have should be fun, even though we are trying to beat‑‑ everybody that I've talked to, the European players and coaches that I've talked to, they said they enjoyed it.   They said it was the loudest‑‑ it was fun.   And Poulter did it this morning, too, in my group with me.   We just had a blast.   I think that's what we need to show, if we are going to grow the game of golf, that's what we have to show, the fun side of it.

Q.   Would you say you two were the ultimate ham‑and‑eggers this afternoon?     When you got in trouble, Webb seemed to play well and vice versa. 
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, you know, I birdied every par 5, even though he made a birdie 10, I was in there two feet.   So I birdied every par 5.   And I felt like he was so short‑‑ I had to birdie‑‑ I let him birdie the rest.

Q.   7‑iron, 222? 
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, somewhere around there. 

Q.   Is that downwind or‑‑
BUBBA WATSON:   It was downwind.   We are trying to close them out.   And I wanted to hit a real good shot, try to pull something off.   Luckily they didn't make a birdie, so he made a birdie. 
But yeah, it came off perfect.   I hit three great shots‑‑ during the practice round, I hit a 3‑iron from 258, did the same thing.   Hit an unbelievable shot.   Hit a 5‑iron the other day here to close out the match. ‑‑ went down today, hit 7‑iron.   So I have hit three of my best shots this week over this hole. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT