TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 21, 2012
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Another good round of golf today?
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, it was good.   Watching Jim, the first nine holes, first 11 holes he had nine threes in 11 holes.   So watching that you kind of forget about your round and what's going on.   I was playing good.   Hitting some good shots.   Birdied the first hole, made a good putt, and made a bogey on the second hole. 
Played solid, and then got some breaks to go my way on the back nine and capitalize on them.   Made some putts.   Made a great putt off of 17 there, and then with the free drop on 18, I could get that up‑and‑down.

Q.   I know that Jim doesn't have to apologize to anyone for the career he's had.   But some people are somewhat critical of him being a captain's pick.   Now that you've just played with him, what do you think about his Ryder Cup credentials and being on the team? 
BUBBA WATSON:   If you look back at anybody that the captain was going to pick is going to be great players.   Anybody that was mentioned was going to be a great player, great add to the team.   I asked him today, and he said this was going to be his 8th Ryder Cup.   So obviously, his experience is pretty good.   He's a steady player so, he can make some birdies when he needs to.   He's always a great player.   There are always going to be some people that are off the team.   There are always going to be people that get on the team, and media attention around all of that.   So whoever made the team was going to be good for us.

Q.   Can you reflect on your season? 
BUBBA WATSON:   I answered that as PC as I could.   I was kind of dancing around it a little bit (laughing).

Q.   What can you reflect on your season since the Masters? 
BUBBA WATSON:   Since the Masters, it's been pretty good.   When you look at my record when I first got back, I played New Orleans, finished 18th, then I missed two cuts.   Really close to making the cuts and then I missed second after missing two cuts.   Memorial, and the US Open and I finished second at travels.   This season, Three missed cuts I have for the whole season, and every other tournament, 15 tournaments out of the top 25.   If I can beat five people here, it will be another top 25.   So it will be 16 top 25s and three missed cuts.   So all in all it's a really good season.

Q.   Is this a golf course you've liked traditionally? 
BUBBA WATSON:   This one? 

Q.   Yes. 
BUBBA WATSON:   No, this golf course and me don't see eye to eye.   I've never played good here.   My best finish here was 22nd, 23rd, maybe.   Stringing two under par rounds together is pretty good.   Looking forward to the weekend.   Maybe last year when I shot 66 one round last year, so I learned a little bit.   But it's still a tough golf course for me just because of the grass and the way I swing at the ball, I catch a lot of Flyers.

Q.   I take it that you've got Jim's scorecard and you're writing down all those threes to start out? 
BUBBA WATSON:   It was funny.   Sorry to interrupt you.   But it was funny.   No, it didn't until we got in there.   He said how many threes in a row?   It was like seven threes in a row, two fours in a row, and a couple more threes.   So it was nine threes in 11 holes.   You're writing it down, and I just circled every hole it seemed like I made birdie over hole. 
So I didn't really pay attention until afterwards.   Knew he was playing good, but I didn't know how many threes or how many fours.

Q.   What do you think a guy like Jim brings to a room?   I know you were at Mel bourn last year for the Presidents Cup. 
BUBBA WATSON:   Jim was at Wales too.   We were in Wales together too.

Q.   That's right.   What's he bring to it? 
BUBBA WATSON:   He brings leadership, focus, drive, determination.   This is going to be his 8th one.   Obviously, he's been around the block.   He's won.   He's lost.   He's done it all.   He's cried at a few.   At Wales he was picking up for Hunter.   So he brings leadership.   That's the quarterback of the team.   When you get a guy over 40 playing on your team, those are like the quarterbacks of your team.

Q.   Did you putt on 17? 
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, I putted it from, let's just say I don't know, 50, 60 feet.   Yeah.

Q.   Did you expect that to be the case just because of what happened last year? 
BUBBA WATSON:   No, Webb sucks.   I don't like Webb.   He's playing terrible.   No, obviously, we play really good together.   There are a lot of combinations that will work.   And we were talking about it today, because we haven't heard from the captain, so we don't know what the situation is. 
So I can honestly say we haven't heard from him to talk about pairings or anything.   Obviously I'd love to play with Webb or Furyk.   He's playing really good right now.   Anybody playing good, I'll play with them.   Or I'll sit out so I won't lose a point (laughing). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT