THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2012
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  BUBBA WATSON:   It was good.   This was the first day we had no wind.   The wind is starting to pick up a little bit, but not for here.   It was all being composed off the tees, making sure I hit the fairways or came close to hitting the fairways, trying to stay out of the bunkers.   I hit two shots I wish I could redo.   Anytime you shoot under par it's a good day.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, it's kind of like yesterday, we went out really high winds in the morning and blue skies the rest of the day.   So it was something we weren't expecting.   We were always expecting a little bit of rain, I think it was 50 percent chance when we got up this morning, so it's been nice so far.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:   Are you saying I cannot read?   I agree.
No, you know, these greens are‑‑ they seem flat but there's always little mounds that you don't really see, especially when you're off in a distance.   When you get over them, a lot of the putts seem like they go both ways, break left and break back right.   So for me, I hit some putts, my speed was a little off.   I missed a couple of short ones that my speed was off.   A little harder I could have made them.   And some easier I could have made.   All in all it was a good day putting, I missed a couple but I made some big ones, too.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:   Yes, I did.   You know, wind is going to dictate what club we hit off the tee.   But we know conservative.   Some holes we're conservative, some holes more aggressive.   Today on the par‑5, 7, I think it is, we were going to hit iron every day on that hole, just go ahead and lay up today.   Today there's no wind so we felt like we could manage hitting the fairway.   I hit the fairway and made birdie there.   So we changed it just a little bit because of conditions.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:   I hit the shot‑‑ I hit a‑‑ it was a real tight lie on, I think, 13.   And I hit it fat, not sure‑‑ that's why I changed clubs out there.   Wasn't sure how the ball was going to impact the ball.   But my driver swing on the next hole, I didn't cut it, I just hit it dead straight, hit it in the rough.   I still made par on that hole.   So it was only one hole I made a bogey.   But the driver swing, even though I made par, I still would like to do that.

Q.   Is it frustrating to have to rein it in? 
BUBBA WATSON:   Well, I'm like a kid.   So I like to be creative and hit shots.   And over here, playing with your buddies you can hit all the shots you want to.   But playing in a major championship you've got to play smarter, I guess.   And I'm not very good at playing smarter. 
It's something that me and my caddie worked out.   Like I said earlier to some people is that I watched Tiger and Phil, and Tiger played the best I've seen him play at the U.S. Open.   I learned a lot by watching him, how he hit a lot of irons off the tee, played really smart.
Phil‑‑ and I watched Phil.   Even having not the best two days, he still made the cut and fought hard.   Coming over here we had a few weeks off to learn, and I'm trying to practise long irons and get ready for this challenging golf course and play more conservatively because there's long irons into these greens.

Q.   (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON:   Yes, obviously Lee's always up on the leaderboard in a major championship.   Great player.   Always on the leaderboard everywhere, but especially in the majors.   He missed some putts.   He hit some shots.   Around this golf course, around any major golf course, there's going to be some shots that a little off, that are going to show‑‑ are just going to feed one way or the other way, hit it up against some of these bunkers, hit it up against the lip.   So it wasn't his best day putting, but obviously he's a fighter, so he's going to come back stronger than ever.

Q.   Were you using a 2‑iron today? 
BUBBA WATSON:   I took my 4‑wood out and put in a 2‑iron. 

Q.   How often have you hit a 2‑iron in your career? 
BUBBA WATSON:   Until two years ago I never had a wood in my bag, just always had a 2‑iron.   Two years ago I switched to a 4‑wood, and off and on like certain tournaments I switch the 2‑iron in instead of the 4‑wood. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT