TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2012
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Well, thanks very much.   The 2010 Travelers champion making a move.   You passed a lot of guys today with that 65.  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, I did.   You know, I just played ‑‑ I played good the first day and today.   The middle day, just the heat got to me a little.   A little off my game, a little tired.   No energy there.   I just came back today after some rest and some good rest, and played better.  
   
 Q.   One bad spot that had to kill you with such great momentum was 17.   And that hole's bitten you a couple of times in your career here.  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, for sure.   You know, I hit a good putt.   The pin's in a tricky spot.   Hit a good putt.   The only thing I can think of is it hit a good gust of wind.   The wind was coming up pretty strong then.   Rolled about eight feet past, but it broke different going up than it did coming down, so it was just one of those things.  
   
 Q.   But now you are in position legitimately to win this thing again?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah.   You gotta shoot low.   I'm going to have to shoot a low number, lower tomorrow than today.   But you know coming down the stretch, if I have a chance at it, it will be fun.   That's what we're all trying to do.   We're all trying to get a chance on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   5‑under on the day, you put yourself in great position for Sunday.   I overheard you saying the heat was really a factor for you in round two.   Round three, what did you do to kind of rehydrate and refocus yourself?  
BUBBA WATSON:   You know, I just had to get some good rest, and that rain delay let me sleep in, so I just got some sleep, and a lot of water, a lot of different drinks to get hydrated.   And then you know, just came out here prepared and ready to play today.  
   
 Q.   I was saying to you, I saw your wife Angie in the clubhouse, and you and I talked on Tuesday about how special this place is for you, place for your first win.   It was a really emotional time for you.   Now, a couple years later, it has to be kind of emotional again.   Now you have a new son, your family is all together here.   Things have changed so much for you.   Have you really had a chance to step back and look at that?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No, not at all.   It's been a whirlwind.   Been playing pretty good all year.   Won the Masters, adopted a son.   It's just been a whirlwind in every direction in my life.   You know, it's a blessing.   It's been fun.   Love the opportunity to do this.  
But you know, the son is the best part about the whole year.   Seeing him every day, going home and seeing him smile is fun.  
   
 Q.   You said yesterday you weren't feeling well.   Today obviously you felt better?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, for sure.   The rain delay let me sleep in a little bit.   At 3‑under par normally I'd be playing in the morning, but with the rain delay I got to sleep in.   Got to work out this morning.   Did everything I normally would do.   You know, and I just came out ready to play, and it wasn't as hot as it was the last couple days.  
   
 Q.   You're in position.   Was there a number in mind that you gotta come out tomorrow and shoot?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Really low.   These guys are playing really good.   I bogeyed number 17.   I'm at 8‑under, I think.   And they're at 12, maybe 13, 14 by the end of the day.   So it's going to take a real low number and they're going to have to slow down for me to catch them.   But I'm going to give it my best, though.  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about what happened on 17 with the three‑putt?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, I missed my second putt and tapped in for a three‑putt.   It's one of those things.   The pin's in a tricky spot.   It broke about six feet from, I don't know, I was only about 15 feet away.   Broke about six feet.   Maybe a gust of wind or something, but there's a big slope there and it just kept going on the slope and when I putted it back up, it either bounced or broke right, and it shouldn't do that, obviously, because it went one way and then back the other way.   So just one of those things.   You're going to have bad ones, you're going to have good ones, so it's just one of those things.  
   
 Q.   Other than that, what was the best part that you took advantage of today?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Just I played solid.   You know, I made ‑‑ I played two holes great.   Cost me ‑‑ made me two bogeys, though.   I hit the ball in the fairway.   Hit pretty good shots.   Cost me a bogey on what hole is that, 12.   And then on 17 a three‑putt.   But all in all it was a great day.   5‑under par, you can't be mad about that.   
But I played solid.   That's all it was, just playing solid.   Yesterday I didn't have any energy, so I just struggled throughout the whole day.   And then the first day and today I just played solid golf.  
   
 Q.   Bubba, speaking of energy, obviously you missed the cut last week.   I'm sure you would have liked to have made it, but did that help you in any way because that is such a grind coming into here and not having to play those extra two days?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No.   I mean I still practiced.   I still played golf.   I still grinded trying to get better, and in 100‑degree, you can't really prepare for that.   Well, I hope you don't prepare for that.  
So it's just one of those things, I'd rather be tired because I played the weekend at the U. S. Open.  
   
 Q.   Bubba, obviously this tournament means a lot to you.   Can you talk about what it means to you to be back in contention tomorrow and fighting for another title here?  
BUBBA WATSON:   It does mean a lot.   The first thing you gotta do is think about Travelers.   Travelers stepped up and supported this tournament.   They added the first tee clubhouse over there.   They added that new driving range.   This is a big impact to this town, this city and Travelers is doing all of that.   They're making sure the local economy here is doing well, you know, with all the charity work and everything that they're doing.   So you gotta give your hat's off to them, first of all.  
Then for me, winning here, my first win here, announcing that my dad was about to pass away of cancer, there's up and down moments at this place but they've always treated me well and the new sponsor is always welcomed us here and they've always treated us with the utmost respect.   So I just love coming here and playing.  
   
 Q.   Where does this place kind of rank in terms of how much fun you have playing here in terms of some of the other courses on TOUR?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Well, when I make the cut, I feel good, a lot of fun.   When I win, I have a lot more fun.  
You know, it's a good spot, because again, because of the sponsors.   The sponsors have found out what we like, what we enjoy, and they try to make us feel at home here.   They've done everything for us.   They've improved the golf course.   They've improved the situation around here with the new driving range and all that stuff.   So obviously when they're doing that and they're showing that support to us pros and to our families, obviously it's a good place to be.  
   
 Q.   How different did it feel walking up the fairways today compared to back when you won the first time?  
BUBBA WATSON:   I wasn't as nervous today.   You know, it's just a Saturday.   
No, it was ‑‑ it's good.   I've got more fans now because of winning here.   But also because of winning the Masters.   
You know, a lot of support.   It's always nice to have a lot of support, and for some reason, it's like a home here.   They always treat me great here.   It's always fun to come back here and see the support.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT