TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2012
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thanks very much.   We're with the man who won here two years ago.   It's a special place.   I'm curious, a little bit of everything in the crowd today.   How happy or unhappy are you?  
BUBBA WATSON:   I'm very happy.   You know, shooting 4‑under.   I didn't make any putts the last couple weeks that I missed cuts.   Made some putts today, made some key putts today to keep the momentum going.   Had a couple loose swings, but all in all it was a good day.  
   
 Q.   Tell me about your hole‑out on No. 10.   It was like, oh, he's in trouble and next thing you know, there's a 2 on the card.   
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, you know, it was in the rough.   It was just a sand wedge.   So I just hit a sand wedge and it bounced right and somehow it trickled in the hole.  
   
 Q.   Is that the old, you have a swing, you got a shot?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, for sure.   I did have a swing and it was in the shade, so it was nice.  
   
 Q.   You talked at Olympic beforehand about how the course just didn't seem to suit your eye.   
BUBBA WATSON:   Right.  
   
 Q.   Obviously this place does.   What is it about this place that makes you so comfortable and allows you to succeed?  
BUBBA WATSON:   You're hitting a lot of shots that for me are going right to left off the tees.   You're hitting a lot of short irons into the greens here.   You know, so the greens are nice size.   The fairways are nice size.   So it's just for me it's just more comfortable for me.   You know, when it gets tight and the fairways are shaping the other way, it makes it a bit tougher for me.   So this one just kind of suits my eye a little bit better.  
   
 Q.   And how much fun was it playing with the two other major champions?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Oh, it was really nice.   You know, those two guys are great guys.   Any time you can play with them it's a fun round, and then making some putts on top of theirs, it was nice, too.  
   
 Q.   Thanks for your time.   I appreciate it.   
BUBBA WATSON:   Thanks.   
   
 Q.   Bubba, 4‑under 66.   You had some highs, some Lowe's today.   What were you most impressed with with your day?  
BUBBA WATSON:   My putting was good.   You know, the last two cuts I've missed I haven't made the putts, haven't made the momentum with the putts.   
Started off with two birdies, made the putt on the first hole.   It was a pretty good putt.   You know, saved a par from just off the green on a hole.   Then the very next hole, made about a 15‑footer for par.   So just the putting, just keeping my head down and making some key putts that I needed to make.  
   
 Q.   You played with your Presidents Cup partner and Keegan Bradley.   Did you have fun out there?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Oh, for sure.   Any time you can play with those guys, they're two great guys, two great ambassadors of this game.   Any time you can play with them it's fun.   
You learn from each other, and you watch each other, how they were going.   And you know, we were making some jokes out there.   We were having a fun time, so it was good.  
   
 Q.   How about the eagle on 10?  
BUBBA WATSON:   It was just a sand wedge.   I think we had like 135 hole.   Had to fly out about 125 because the ball's been bouncing today.   No rain lately, so the ball was bouncing pretty good.   And just came out right, and bounced perfect and somehow just trickled in.  
   
 Q.   Is that part of your game, just see how far you can get it off the tee and take it out of the rough for your second one?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No, not at all.   That's not my game at all.   You know, I try to hit the fairways, but I don't.   It's just one of those things.   I'm just not a fairway hitter, I guess.   
But on that hole it's just a hole I'm trying to hit driver and I'm just trying to cut it because I like the shape of the shot, right to left, and I missed the fairway by about four feet and then somehow made a 2.  
   
 Q.   And how good was it playing with those other guys today?  
BUBBA WATSON:   It's fun playing with them.   You know, it's two great guys, two great ambassadors of this game.   Playing with them, we were joking around and goofing around and then making some birdies here and there.   So it was a fun day.  
   
 Q.   I know Keegan called it Florida hot today.   
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, for sure.   It was very hot.   You know, it's very humid.   When you get on some of those tees, some of those greens where there's no wind, it really gets steamy.   Your palms start sweating.   So you're just always using the towel, always trying to stay hydrated.   The key is staying hydrated on a day like today, because if you get a little off, your mind starts wandering and doing all these things.   So you just gotta keep drinking water.  
   
 Q.   Two quick birdies.   Did that really just get you going, especially with the guys you were playing with and the heat?   Was it just nice to get the edge out there?  
BUBBA WATSON:   You know, for sure.   I missed the last two cuts, so any time you get to start out hot gets you focused on golf again, and I did.   I made two solid birdies the first two holes, and I just played solid all day and had about two swings I wish I could do over, but putted really well.  
   
 Q.   Bubba, you obviously won here in 2010.   You look a little more comfortable around this place.   
BUBBA WATSON:   This course is totally different than the U. S. Open.   So everybody is comfortable.   
You know, it's one of those things, there's a lot of tee shots for me that I'm shaping right to left like I like to do, and you're hitting a lot of short irons.   I'm hitting a lot of mid irons to wedges in here.   So obviously that's going to be easier for everybody.   It's going to be more birdies, lastly, but if you're hitting long irons in every hole, even the lay up on par‑5s you're still hitting long irons in there on your third shot.   So it's a totally different golf course, totally different style.   They set it up totally different.  
   
 Q.   Bubba, you said you putted well.   On 17, was that a misread, a miss execution?  
BUBBA WATSON:   That was a misread.   I didn't expect it to break three feet from nine feet.   But obviously it did.   You know, it was just one of those things.   You're going to miss putts, you're going to make putts and that one I decided to miss, I guess.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT