ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2012
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about your bogies to find your sea legs again on the golf course, because you managed to turn it around very well?  
BUBBA WATSON:   You know, funny story is that I played awful yesterday.   My body is not where it wants to be.   You know, I can't hit shots that I want to hit.   I can't hit it and make putts.   I'm struggling out there.   Just exhausted.   Mentally exhausted.   
Made a quick bogey on 8, my 17th hole.   Just loss of focus there with a short missed putt.   So, under par -- my good week this week will be making the cut and that's what me and my caddie joked about all day.   I'm just exhausted.   Hitting the ball full bore tires me out.   I have to take deep breaths trying to get some energy.  
   
 Q.   What will you do?   Obviously, you go early, late.   What will you do?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Normally I'd be working out after all these interviews.   Today I'm going to take some naps, do some therapy and just try to rest, try to get as much liquid in me as much as possible and then just hope I'll be ready to play tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   How did it feel to be back on the golf course?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Tiring.   The sad thing is it's overwhelming what happens when you win a big event like that.   The mental grind of making sure you treat everybody the same, making sure you sign everybody's autograph, special things for my fans, too, for the people that pull for me, special things for me to sign all their autographs and flags and stuff and say hey to people and old friends, new friends and so it's just time-consuming.   
Energy just gets drained really quick, especially with the new baby.   Just haven't had time to rest yet and take a deep breath.   Just exhausting but being the defending champ, I had to be here.  
   
 Q.   You could have let it get away from you.   You were a couple over early and started making birdies.  
BUBBA WATSON:   It felt really good.   My caddy, after a couple holes, he was like, "If you miss the cut here you're still Masters champion.   Don't get down on yourself."   
He said a good week is going to be making the cut, then a great week is going to be anything in the Top 25.   So, that's what we looked at.   That's what I kept grinding about and somehow I had a few birdies.   I had a little hiccup the 17th hole.   All in all, under par is good.  
   
 Q.   You're always going to be Masters champion.  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   What did you envision, can you put that into perspective for us, perhaps?  
BUBBA WATSON:   I'm very excited.   I can't hit a full swing yet.   My distance isn't where I want it to be.   Anytime I hit a full swing I'm just exhausted, takes my breath away.   Just trying to fight through it.   
I knew I needed to be here being defending champ for the local fans, the volunteers and the charities that we're helping out this week, I had to be here for that and I'm here but mentally I'm not here.   I'm so out of it right now, golf is a hard thing to do right now.  
   
 Q.   With that being said, you played a pretty good second half of golf.  
BUBBA WATSON:   For sure.   My caddie said, "The worse thing that's going to happen, you're going to miss the cut.   You miss the cut you're still Masters Champion."   Made sense.   Then he said a good week will be making the cut, a great week will be a Top 25.   
So, just very exhausted trying to get some rest and hopefully I can get some.   I have a long time until my next time, tee time.  
   
 Q.   Did the crowd inspire you at all?   That's a pretty big gallery for Thursday morning.  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, they had some great golf to watch.   Steve Stricker and Webb Simpson make birdies every hole seemed like.   I was just there to fill the spot.   
It's always good to have a big crowd like that, especially people pulling for you.   They were cheering for me so it's good.   It's always good to have support.   If you don't have support it means you're playing really bad.  
   
 Q.   How about Webb playing, how he played last year?  
BUBBA WATSON:   He's a good friend of mine.   That was a year ago.   There's going to be other tournaments where stuff like that happens.   We think about our friendship and his baby and my baby and all the new stuff happening in our lives.   You know, that's what we talked about and, really, golf got in the way of all our conversation.  
   
 Q.   You said a Top 25 finish would be a good goal after today.   Do you think it's conceivable you could turn it on and all of a sudden find a little more --  
             BUBBA WATSON:   For sure.   As an athlete that's what you strive to do even when you're sick or you're down or whatever.   But it's going to take some energy.   For me, yeah, I have a shot at winning.   I've got to play great golf the last few days.   I got to get some rest.   I don't know.   I have until 12:30 tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   The first two shots probably confirmed how you were feeling but is it at all satisfying because you grinded through it?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Our main goal was to shoot under par every round.   For me to grind it out and still shoot under par today with some tough finishing holes there, yeah, it felt nice.   If I can shoot 3 more rounds under par, it will be a good week.  
   
 Q.   Did the wind at all affect you today?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Everything affected me.   Any time there's wind like this, this golf course plays tough.   Some of the greens out there pretty small.   So when it's windy like this it's very difficult to hit good shots with all the water and stuff.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT