WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2012
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Probably never easy playing against a friend in match play?
BUBBA WATSON:   No, it's not.

Q.   Talk about what it was like out there and then maybe you and Ben as a whole. 
BUBBA WATSON:   Last night we were at Bible study together.   We have a Wednesday night ‑‑ Tuesday night Bible study this week because of the tournament.   There was about seven of us there.   Ben was there; I was there.   So we were just joking around about how much fun it was going to be to play each other.   Neither one of us want to lose, obviously.   You are here to win.   Even it's your buddy or what, you still want to win.   It's hard playing with your buddy like that sometimes. 
Overall, I hit the ball so good today.   I was really happy with how I was striking it.   I didn't miss a shot today.   So I just played good and he just missed a couple of putts.   Just one of those things

Q.   This is a course with the way that it's a designed, with the greens being a little funky, it allows you to have a little imagination.   That's something that I imagine you enjoy. 
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, I do.   When it's ‑‑ when it's one‑on‑one, when you can see your opponent and see what he's doing, you can play different shots or play safe over here.   You can miss a green in a certain place just because you can play a hill and get up‑and‑down.   There's a lot of strategy involved, especially after what your partner does.   Obviously you are just going to attack whatever you can do. 
These greens are difficult.   Sometimes you will be on the green and might not be able to 2‑putt because they have got so many hills on them. 

Q.   Are you a bracket watcher?   When you were coming up, were you looking to see who's advanced and who has been eliminated? 
BUBBA WATSON:   I watched it throughout the day.   Just looked at some of my buddies and how they were playing.   I saw that my match tomorrow, who I'm playing against, is going to 18 right now.   They are all square.   I know Kuchar was up by 3 today and now he is back square on the last hole.   Jonathan and Kuchar, that is who I was just watching seeing who I was going to play.   It doesn't change my strategy any, but I was still just seeing who it was.

Q.   Do the seeds mean much? 
BUBBA WATSON:   No, no.   The seeds mean ‑‑ seeds mean something in other sports, you know.   If I wake up and don't feel that good or struggle a little bit or don't putt as good as I should, you just lose.   You can shoot 75, 3‑over, and lose.   You can shoot 65 and lose.   It just depends on how good you are playing that day.   It's one of those tough ones where you can come out and shoot over par and still win the match.

Q.   I wonder where the General Lee is this week?
BUBBA WATSON:   It's sitting in the garage in Scottsdale.   It hasn't been out in the last couple of weeks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT