WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 3, 2012
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How was it out there?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Sunny.   That's about it.   
   
 Q.   How would you assess your round today?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Not good.   You know, last week I played really well tee to green and I just didn't make any putts.   This week is the same thing.   The ball is just not going in the hole right now, but it's a good problem to have.   To finish 13th last week and to be up there right now, top 5 right now, it's a good problem to have.   Missing putts left and right and three‑putting a lot, I'm still up there, so it's good.  
   
 Q.   Mid round or mid tournament do you try to go to the range and try to figure out the source of it?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No.   I'm going home.   I've got friends in town.   I've got some golfers staying with me.   We're going to play a lot of ping‑pong, try and forget about how many putts I had and then show up tomorrow maybe with something green on and maybe have at it again.  
   
 Q.   But no adjustments with your putting?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No, no.   Just hopefully they'll adjust and they'll go in instead.  
   
 Q.   I know you're a feel player.   Some courses because of that will suit your game and your eye better than others.   How does this one match up?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Well, I'll tell you after Sunday, but right now it's suiting up pretty good.   If I start making some putts then I'll really love this place.  
   
 Q.   I don't know if you're aware, Aaron Baddeley's car, he tried to warm up to you yesterday and then Pat Perez drove a Ferrari today.   Are you recognizing that as there's some sort of competition right now, who has the flashiest car to the course?  
BUBBA WATSON:   No, they know.   They know who has it.   
   
 Q.   Let's see, an eagle, a double bogey, some birdies, some bogeys.   A little bit of everything in the bag today?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, definitely.   It's been a struggle.   Last week I played really good, but I putted really bad, averaged about 32 putts last week, still finished 13th.   Kind of carried over this week, I just haven't made the putts that I wanted to.   I'd make a good run and then I'd throw them back.   I three‑putted No.7 both days, cost me a little bit.   I hit an 8‑iron into No.3 and made a bogey.   You know, just little things here and there, but overall it's pretty good, I just needed some putts to fall.  
   
 Q.   Ball‑striking has been terrific, though.   
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, I put that new Ping driver in, and that Ping is doing pretty good right now.  
   
 Q.   How much fun was it to be with Gary Woodland and the two of you guys get to go stretch it out a little bit?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Well, it's good it was on this course.   If it was on a different course we couldn't stretch it out, but here you can go ahead and bombs away.   Yeah, we've had some fun, we've joked around a little bit.   He's younger than me, so he's probably longer.  
   
 Q.   The parking spot has General Lee's name on it, not yours.   
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, definitely.   The General Lee is more popular than I am.   It's probably got more fans than I've got.  
   
 Q.   What's it going to take to get things going for this weekend?  
BUBBA WATSON:   You know, just hopefully some putts, get some putts early, get some confidence early, and just seeing them go in, hopefully that's what can happen.   
   
 Q.   Not so much about your round, but I'm doing a story with you and your car.   Can you talk about the General Lee and why you picked that bad boy out?  
BUBBA WATSON:   I just loved it as a kid.   You know, and as our profession grows and grows, I've had the backing to buy it.   So it's basically like a comic book for a kid.   It's a comic book for me but I get to drive it around and blow the horn every once in a while, so it's good.  
   
 Q.   What are the other golfers on the TOUR saying about seeing the classy General Lee out front?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yeah, I think they like it.   Ian Poulter loved it, Pat Perez, Aaron Baddeley, everybody I hang out with and stuff, they've all told me that they love it and a lot of fans love it, so it's been good.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel cherished to be riding in the vehicle that Bo and Luke Duke ripped up Hazzard County in?  
BUBBA WATSON:   Yes, I do.   It's the one that jumped.   It's Lee I.   So yeah, it's a big honor to have it, and hopefully I treat it well and everybody appreciates it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT