TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 24, 2011
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well, Bubba, if you're going to have a good back nine to finish your first round, you had a pretty good one.   
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, I did. You know, I was a little off. Probably just sitting around yesterday, my body was just a little off. I just didn't have what I wanted.   
 Made some key putts, hit some good shots on the back nine, so I got it going, so hopefully this short little break won't mess me up too bad and I can just keep it going.  
  
  Q. Tell me about that 17th. You weren't happy with the chip, but when you know the putt is rolling like that, the eight and a half footer you made to save par kind of makes you say, okay, I'm all right.   
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah. You know, the edges where the water runs off is a little soft. Made a little ball mark from my five foot chip. Just didn't do what I wanted to, but then the putt, the putt helped me out and kept the momentum going.  
  
  Q. What are you going to do today because yesterday, I was there. You were sleeping in that locker room. You're not going to get to do that now.   
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah. Exactly. You know, I'm just going to go in there and hopefully I can finish, get my round done today, have another good one and just see how it goes. Just try to get it in, though.  
  
  Q. How do you feel?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Doesn't feel that good. I'm tired. I got 18 more to go. Yesterday was a real tiring day. Wasn't sure what we were doing. I started getting ready, stopped getting ready. Just never knew what we were doing, so it was just tiring.   
 But looking forward to it, though. I started off with a good round, so I'm looking forward to a couple more good ones.  
  
  Q. Do you get the sense that you have a little more name recognition with these folks, your first round as the defending champ; people are following you and paying attention closely?  
 BUBBA WATSON: No. I'm not paying -- I'm just -- I'm playing golf. The trophy's not mine. Whoever wins this week is going to have the trophy, so it doesn't matter what I did last year. It matters what I do this week. So just going to go out there and attack three more days and hopefully I can end up on top again.  
  
  Q. Did you finally see the plaque out there?  
 BUBBA WATSON: The what?   
  
  Q. The plaque?  
 BUBBA WATSON: No, I didn't look. I was mad at my shot, so I didn't pay attention to it. I don't know if you saw it. It spun off the green.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT