U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 18, 2011
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 BUBBA WATSON: We had a contest on Twitter and Facebook to try to design the shirt, and a guy designed it and we picked out the best. The one we liked the best we gave him a free trip to the U.S. Open so he's walking around the U.S. Open and I'm wearing the shirt every day.  
  
  Q. The military is close to your family?  
 BUBBA WATSON: My dad was in Vietnam. So, yeah, actually it's a big part of us. We don't like war, but at the same time the people over there are fighting so we can play golf for a living, we've got to support them.  
  
  Q. You were at the White House before the game started. Today is a big day in political golf, do you know about the whole golf summit?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, I don't know who he's playing with.   
  
  Q. He's playing with John Boehner. And just being able to get out with someone for four or five hours, do you think -- we're talking about two guys in different political positions here, do you think golf is a good avenue for that to come together like that?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, anytime you can get out and get away from the red tape and argue inside of closed doors, it's better to argue on the golf course. If you beat me, we pass it my way. We pass it my way on to you. It's a fun time to get out there on the golf course. And the boundaries are split. They're out there having fun. They're playing a fun game and enjoying it.  
  
  Q. Can you tell us what you talked to the President about?  
 BUBBA WATSON: No, it's secret. We had the door shut, you can't talk about that.  
  
  Q. Talk about your round today.   
 BUBBA WATSON: It's not very good. I shot, I think, 3-over, pretty far back. Just can't get anything going this week.   
  
  Q. What do you think is the reason?  
 BUBBA WATSON: I'm just not that good. Simple as that. This is not the week for me, I'm struggling.  
  
  Q. Are you at all thinking about, not during the round, but thinking about Travelers?  
 BUBBA WATSON: No, I'm not thinking about that. I'm not doing anything -- Travelers is going to be another week. I happened to win it last year, and I'm going to try to win it again when I get there.  
  
  Q. Is your dad still around?  
 BUBBA WATSON: No, he passed away.   
  
  Q. Could you describe the shirt and what --  
 BUBBA WATSON: The get-up?   
  
  Q. I know what it represents.   
 BUBBA WATSON: We had a contest on Twitter and Facebook and we picked the best design and then we picked the best one that we liked the best, that represented what we were trying to do and we let that fan come here, get a free trip to the U.S. Open. And I wear the shirt every day. And we're selling it for charity. When we make some money, we're giving it all to military families.  
  
  Q. A specific charity?  
 BUBBA WATSON: The Green Beret Foundation. Travis Matthew and the clothing company might have other ideas. We're trying to help the military as much as possible.  
  
  Q. Do you know the name of the fan that won the contest?  
 BUBBA WATSON: No, I don't. I know his Twitter name.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT