THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 76, 66, explain yourself.   
 BUBBA WATSON: I made putts today. Yesterday I just missed tons of putts. Three-putted a couple times today. I just made all my putts that I had to make, all the five and three-footers. I made some birdie putts. That's what it was, was all putting.  
  
  Q. Talk about the reaction there on 17 for that two?   
 BUBBA WATSON: I knew what the cut was. The cut's right around even, and it's a tough 18 to play. I had to two-putt that one. For it to fall in, it gives me a little more cushion on the cut and it moves me up the leaderboard, so I'm closer to the lead. So it was two different ways there it was helping me out.  
  
  Q. You said at the start of the week this course was too difficult for you, how have you overcome that?   
 BUBBA WATSON: Today it was just putting. My nerves were still at me all day to day. I just made the putts. I didn't make any real bad swings, no bogies today. I just played steady I guess.  
  
  Q. Johnny Miller said the other day that Bubba plays his own way. He could change the way the game is played because kids could follow you. How do you feel about that?   
 BUBBA WATSON: It's just all talk, you know. I do move it a lot. Luke Donald doesn't move it a lot, but he's No. 3 or 2 in the world or whatever.   
 But, yeah, the game is changing a little bit because a lot of young players are coming up without hitting straight ball, a lot of curves in the air. But there's always going to be a great place to play for straight hitters.  
  
  Q. So far so good. Summarize your round of golf today.   
 BUBBA WATSON: It was a good round of golf. I made some putts. Yesterday I missed all my putts, but today made all my par putts that I had to make kept the momentum going. Somehow I dropped a long bomb on 17, and then no bogies, so it's nice.  
  
  Q. Being as long as you are, does it make the course easier?   
 BUBBA WATSON: Yes. If you use your driver well, yes. On 18, I had like 90 yards into the green, so it makes it easier. If you're hitting it straight, but if you're hitting it crooked, it makes it difficult.  
  
  Q. You're a cool guy. I was watching you on the morning drive. Where is your confidence out there right now?   
 BUBBA WATSON: Pretty high. I'm feeling great. After two wins on TOUR, always feeling good. After three wins, I guess, in the last year, I'm right where I want to be. Everything's going the right direction right now.  
  
  Q. What do you expect over the weekend?   
 BUBBA WATSON: Hoping for low scores again.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT