MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. How are you feeling through 36 holes? 
 BUBBA WATSON: Mad. I've had three doubles, two today. I could have shot 1-under today, but it looks like I should make the cut at even par, so not too bad. But just left some shots out there, you know, with the doubles.

 Q. I saw you on No. 9 and it seemed like you were putting yourself in really, really good position. Are you pleased with the way that went at least?
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, I hit my driver good. That's not the problem. The problem is 12. I've doubled 12 both days. I've hit 9-iron my whole career, my other two tournaments here, and I hit 9-iron the last two days that went 15 yards too far. For some reason it just went farther. I don't know why.

 Q. Was the wind an issue there? You went bunker to bunker, right?
 BUBBA WATSON: Well, once I went long, I was on the downslope, so I had no chance of stopping it, so I had to aim towards that bunker so it would stop by the bunker and not the water. And then when I did that I was on another downslope. Just one of those things, it didn't go. If it was in the center of the bunker, I'd have a chance to get them up-and-down.

 Q. Your second shot on 15, I guess you were +2 at the time maybe, and it sat right up next to the hole for --
 BUBBA WATSON: Well, I wouldn't say right next to the hole. 35 feet with seven feet of break, so it wasn't next to the hole.

 Q. But that was really gutsy to take that shot, wasn't it?
 BUBBA WATSON: Well, it was just a 4-iron. No. 4 is longer than that shot I had in, so I mean, it wasn't like -- it was no different than another par-3. It was just a 4-iron. But I hit it good.

 Q. Some of the guys in the top world rankings aren't going to be around here for the weekend. 
 BUBBA WATSON: I might not be around. I'm just waiting to see. 
 No, but you've got to look at the top. There's still some great players that are up there. You know, just because their world ranking is not up there, they're still good players. They're in the Masters, so obviously they can play.
 If anybody was in the Masters, y'all would be in the Masters. 

 Q. After the double on 12, do you start thinking -- I notice you're not afraid to look at the scoreboard. Do you start thinking about where the cut line is going to be?
 BUBBA WATSON: Well, I was guessing. I knew I had to get to even. I wanted to get to 1-under starting the day. And then I knew that I had two birdie holes, 15 and 13. And 14 is a birdie hole with that pin location today, so I knew there was still chances to do it; it's just can I do it. And I just happened to do it, got it back to even par, so that was good.

 Q. With that in mind, you're even on 17, and you bounced it off a tree. That probably wasn't exactly the way you drew that up. 
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, and then after I got lucky there I hit a terrible iron shots and hit the chip of my life to two feet and then made that for par. Yeah, you know, got a good break there and then just put my head down and kept going.

 Q. What's the game plan now? 
 BUBBA WATSON: Hopefully make the cut and play really good on the weekend. 

 Q. Is it out there, because there's changes each and every day. 
 BUBBA WATSON: Well, today is tougher because there's back pins, and when there's back pins nobody wants to go home. To attack holes is tough, and when it's windy like this, it just makes it tougher on top of that. Today is playing tough, and if you look, nobody is really running away. A couple of guys are getting a couple birdies and then falling back. It's just kind of right there. Nobody is really running away with it.

 Q. Yeah, it seemed to be wide open. Is it still kind of wide open or have we kind of narrowed it down a little bit?
 BUBBA WATSON: Well, we're still -- McIlroy is only on 9, so he's only played 27 holes for the tournament of 72. But if you look, I think third place is 5-under. You know, it's not like nobody is going deep. It's just still hanging around right there. So if somebody like me, if I shoot 5-under and 5-under for 10-under for the weekend -- I'd take 10-under now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT