MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2011
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. You said you weren't really sure where the ball was going Thursday. How did things go today?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Oh, just had a week off last week, and so usually everything starts -- you get used to playing golf again. You're either going to embarrass yourself or start playing better, and this week I chose to play a little bit better.  
  
  Q. You said yesterday that if you shot a pair of 67s you would take it and see what happens.   
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, I've got one more to go, and hopefully that will do pretty good.  
  
  Q. Nice prediction.   
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, exactly.  
  
  Q. What did you play on 12? Did you change the club?  
 BUBBA WATSON: 12? I don't know what 12 is.  
  
  Q. The par-3.   
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, I hit wedge today. I hit 9-iron the first two days and hit a soft wedge today. A better swing, I guess. I wasn't as pumped up. You know, when you're almost dead last starting the day, you don't really think about the leaderboard until after 18. Just went out there and free-wheeled it and made some birdies.  
  
  Q. Are you feeling better about that hole now that you got a little --  
 BUBBA WATSON: You know what, I've hit the ball well on that hole, just for some reason I get jacked up and fly the green. But I've had some good swings on that hole. Today was just -- we went one club down and swung a little easier, and it worked out perfect.  
  
  Q. Frustrating to make a couple good swings and wind up with doubles?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Yes, but it's more frustrating to hit bad swings. I'd rather make good swings than make bad swings, if that makes sense.  
  
  Q. It does.   
 BUBBA WATSON: I'm glad you believe it does. That's what my caddie says. It worked out today.  
  
  Q. Is the back okay?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Oh, yeah, it's great. No problems. I just tweaked it that first shot and just gave it a little spasm. It wasn't like it was anything major, nothing major.  
  
  Q. Is that from today?  
 BUBBA WATSON: No, the first shot of the whole tournament, my first shot.  
  
  Q. What were you trying to do on your second shot on 17?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Hit it good.  
  
  Q. Were you trying to go over the bunkers?  
 BUBBA WATSON: No. When you have this rough like this you can't curve the ball. It takes shot-making out when you've got to punch under trees like that. Back in the old days with no rough you could move the ball left to right and right to left. Today I was just trying to hit it in the bunker and get up-and-down.  
  
  Q. What did you hit on 18?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Out of the bunker? A 52-degree gap wedge.  
  
  Q. You Tweeted before the tournament that you didn't want any double bogeys today, and you had no double bogeys.   
 BUBBA WATSON: Oh, yeah, today.  
  
  Q. Might that be true tomorrow morning?  
 BUBBA WATSON: I don't know, we'll wait and see.  
  
  Q. The hole locations were very difficult today. Did you find them accessible still?   
 BUBBA WATSON: Well, it's always accessible if you hit good shots. You know, they set pins up, if you hit it down the middle and hit a crisp iron shot, you can score. There's always difficult pins. It's Augusta, so there's always going to be difficult pins here and there. Some difficult pins, some easier pins, but they're all tough to me.  
  
  Q. What was maybe the toughest that you can remember out there?   
 BUBBA WATSON: Well, the toughest is always -- what hole is that, 6? The pin is on the top, so any time it's on the top it's difficult because you only have like a ten-foot circle, eight-foot circle to hit it in.  
  
  Q. Do you have momentum after getting back on track with a birdie on 18?   
 BUBBA WATSON: Well, yes. I mean, I'd rather be 5-under than 4-under. But tomorrow it's all out the door. My round is today, so tomorrow is just a brand new day. Tomorrow I might wake up sick, I might wake up perfect and play great, might play bad. The momentum is done after that. Just making the putt makes my dinner taste better.   
  
  Q. What was it like playing with Jiménez today?   
 BUBBA WATSON: I've played with him a few times. He beat me at the Ryder Cup in the singles match. We're both team players. He's a great guy. You know, he always -- he's always a great guy for the game of golf. He's a great ambassador for the game. Stuff he's done in his career, it's awesome, so you can learn from him, see what he does, see how he attacks the golf course and how he never changes his expression. He hit bad shots, he made some mistakes that he'd like to redo, but he always stays even keel and just keeps playing. He knows he can always make a bomb on the last hole and feel good about it, so it's one of those things where you can learn from a guy like that.  
  
  Q. Any "Go, Dawgs" out there for you?  
 BUBBA WATSON: I think there was one (laughing).   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT