FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 28, 2011
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Bubba, 7-under 65 on that little baby North course. That's no baby North course anymore with the longer tees and some of the cabbage out there. 
 BUBBA WATSON: You know, that golf course is playing tough. With that rough like it is, you have to find fairways somehow. And somehow I think I found about seven, or I made a couple on the first cut. So it worked out to about nine fairways I think hit, so that's good over there, especially as narrow as it is. 
 And then I just had wedges. I just tried to kill my driver and have wedges in there as much as possible, and it worked out for me.

 Q. If it's going to be thick, I might as well get it as close to the green as I can?
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, definitely. Normally the greens are a little softer, but this week they're a little firmer on the North course. But so far I worked out pretty good on it, so now I have to go to the tough one again.

 Q. What do you think of that tough one? It's a little bit more generous?
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it's a little more generous. Still tough, though. But for me the length is no problem, so, yeah, it favors me. Out of the rough it's not that bad, so just bomb and get out like everyone talks about.

 Q. It looks like you worked on your putting in the off-season because you looked better over the ball. The round today could have been a lot better. You had a lot of lips out there?
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, all year. I haven't shot over par yet this year in the three tournaments, just haven't made any putts. Today I made some more putts. I missed a few, but I made enough and it showed. It showed that I have worked a little bit, and they're actually starting to fall.

 Q. Worked on your putting, what all did you do with your putting? 
 BUBBA WATSON: Just practiced putting. Last year, my best putting year was last year, and my best year ever. I was like 15th on the money list. It shows that putting is what does it. 
 Tiger putts the best. Phil putts pretty good. The guys that are the Top 10 in the world putt pretty good, so that's what you need to do.

 Q. What do you work on, alignment, stroke? 
 BUBBA WATSON: Just getting the feels of the greens and more putts. I'm not technical, so I don't think of any of that stuff. I just stroke it and hope it goes in. The more reps at putting, the better your stroke's going to get.

 Q. How different are you today than you were when you first were here a few years ago? I remember you came out, and it seems like you felt a little bit more serious about the game. I don't know. What is it?
 BUBBA WATSON: Well, I think I'm funny. But I still have fun with the game, I still have fun with my life. But for me to just go through the motions or for me to be good at what I do, I needed to take stuff serious.
 So on the golf course, my 30 seconds before I hit and 30 seconds while I'm hitting, I've got to be serious. The rest, who cares. So, you know, it's growing on me. This is my sixth year on TOUR, so I'm getting used to all the attention, all the ropes, all the media, all the people. Just getting used to it, so it's becoming more natural now for me.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT