TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 19, 2010
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Bubba, first nine holes, actually first five holes out of the box; that's the way to get it started even with a par at No. 10?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, four in a row is always good. Yesterday I slipped up on a couple of those holes there missing short putts, and today I wanted to be a little bit more aggressive on those holes and it worked out today. It was all in all a great five holes there.   
  
  Q. And birdied two holes, making the turn and whatnot, that's cool, all right, and slipped up a little bit on 4 and 5. I see you on 6, you was mad. You was mad just a little bit. But sometimes that's what you need, kick-started yourself again.   
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, instead of thinking that you're the best ever, you need some bad mistakes to get you back focused. Instead of losing train of thought there, I was always mad -- I was mad when I made par the hole before.   
 But you know, it was good. I hit a shot in there and I knew I had to hit a cut 6-iron and it worked out perfect, made birdie after the two bogeys and got me back on track where I needed to be.  
  
  Q. Tell me about the shot on 8, because I know when that hit the green and started rolling, if you were thinking to yourself, how much is it going to cost me, I might have to buy some drinks?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Still looking at my first hole and one -- I don't like to tell my clubs but hit an 8-iron in there, rope hook in there; aimed it at the bunker and rope-hooked it against the wind and went in about three feet.  
  
  Q. I don't know if you know that, but it's 203 to the hole.   
 BUBBA WATSON: Well, whatever.   
  
  Q. What was the difference for you between round one and round two? I know the wind was down a little bit but still that's a big difference right there, six shots.   
 BUBBA WATSON: Putting. The wind was down obviously, so made it easier to get to some holes. Putting was a little easier because you're not swaying everywhere. I missed about three or four inside five feet yesterday, so I shot 1-under, but hit the ball great.   
 And so today I just came out, hit the ball great again and then made the putts that I missed yesterday.   
  
  Q. How are you doing so far in your brackets?   
 BUBBA WATSON: I didn't do one.   
  
  Q. What?   
 BUBBA WATSON: I didn't do one.   
  
  Q. Your wife is former WNBA player, and you don't have a bracket for March Madness?   
 BUBBA WATSON: I'm not smart enough to spell some of those words, so I just left it alone.   
  
  Q. Bubba, obviously fantastic round, if you had to assess one key to why you played so well, what would you say?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Putting. Yesterday I played great. I missed some short putts, missed at least three, maybe four inside five feet yesterday and still shot 1-under.   
 Today I just made the putts and that's what kept me going. That's what kept my round going and what kept everything going. When you birdie four in a row and then you can birdie two more in a row, and then another two in a row, it's always because of putting.  
  
  Q. We all know how much you want to win a golf tournament. I know it's top of your list. You're going to be in contention. What do you think from what you've learned in your years out here that it's going to take this week?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Some people struggling around me. If they struggle around me, I can fall into a win.   
 You know, I played great earlier in the year where I shot 66 with no bogeys but came in second because the guy played better than me.   
 You know, it's just one of those things. If it's my time, it's going to happen. The putts are going to fall at the moment I need them to. So far, it hasn't.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT