THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2009
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about your round, 5-under 67.   
 BUBBA WATSON: It was good. I made a par on 10 after hitting it in the bunker, but then I hit it in the water and made a quick bogey, but then hit it in there good on the next hole and then made a long bomb on 13. So after the bogey still got my round going quick with two quick birdies.  
 Then I tried to stay to my routine and tried to stay hitting the fairways and hitting the greens and we did that all day. I made a couple bad swings that cost me a bogey here and there, but nothing bad.   
  
  Q. This is kind of a step in the growing process; you finished second last week and played beautifully all week and then you come out here with a 67 in the first round and kind of showing some consistency, not only just consistency but some really high level consistency?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it's always been a step in the right direction. You know, I didn't get mad today. I hit it in the water twice today on two different holes, but I never got down. I knew that I was still in it, just keep going, there's birdies out there.   
 But yeah, it's always going to carry over -- when you play good it's always going to carry over to the next week, and I'm looking forward to the rest of the week.  
  
  Q. Talk about the bomb you made on 13. I think it measured 53 feet, the longest putt of the day made. Is that something you were trying to do?  
 BUBBA WATSON: No, I was trying to lag it. I hit it so hard, but it hit the back of the hole and went in, so I got lucky there.  
  
  Q. Are those the kinds of things sometimes you need to either win a tournament or kind of have a good round, sometimes you need a lucky break like that?  
 BUBBA WATSON: Definitely, and when you hit a bad drive and it gets a good lie in the rough, you need that kind of stuff. The person who hits it the best might not win one week. It might be the person who got a couple good breaks going their way, where it hit a pin and went in the hole, you hit a tough bunker shot and it hits the pin and goes in the hole, long putts. Yeah, it's always the thing that goes your way. I don't believe in luck, but something has got to go your way. Little things have got to go your way.  
  
  Q. You mentioned last week you like to shape your shots. There's some holes out here, No. 2 comes to mind, where somebody like you probably has to fade it off the tee to keep it in play if you hit driver. Is that something you enjoy out here?   
 BUBBA WATSON: Oh, I love it. This golf course has never set up good for me. I've never really played it well. I missed the cut the last few years. But I love it, though. I think it's one of our best tests of golf. You have to putt well, you have to chip good, you have to hit the tee balls well. The iron shots are good because the greens are tricky. I think this whole golf course is perfect. This is a test of golf that we look for, and it's hard, no matter if you hit it straight or curve it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT