BUICK OPEN
June 26, 2008
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Would you feel good about it?  
 BUBBA WATSON: I feel good about it. If your interview today is minus 5, you're doing pretty good.   
 No, I feel good about it. I made a putt early in the round, probably like six holes, about 15-footer for par. If I miss that, I make a bogey early. But I happened to make it and kept the round going. And then I got careless on No. 11. That's the only hole I didn't commit to.  
 And I didn't think about my second shot. Made a quick bogey right there. Came back with two birdies. Then I had a bad lie on my 15th hole of the day, had a bad lie off the tee. I thought I hit it down in the middle of the fairway. It bounced in the rough. Couldn't do nothing from it. Made a quick bogey there. All in all, it was a good day. Great day.  
  
  Q. You banged one off the tree and still went --  
 BUBBA WATSON: It's easy. Head for the tree, kick it off a little bit. It was a bad swing there, but I was committed to the shot. I hit a bad swing and got a break, it went my way and had a easy par on 8 -- 17 for me.  
  
  Q. Is it an exciting thing to see such low scores early?  
 BUBBA WATSON: No. It means people are playing good. That means you're going to play good. Everybody was around even par, that means you can sneak in there, take the lead. But everybody's playing well, I look at it as it's playing easy. But at the same time you gotta play good. If you don't play good, doesn't matter how easy the golf course is. It's tough.  
  
  Q. You say you need to sneak yourself in there. Looks like you've done that after one day.   
 BUBBA WATSON: I haven't shot myself in the foot yet. I'm still in there. I'm a couple off, 7-under is winning. So I'm three off the lead. I'm in there. I didn't embarrass myself yet.  
  
  Q. What part of your game have you been working on?  
 BUBBA WATSON: The last three weeks I've been working hard on my putting, trying to make pure strokes. Tiger said best, make a putt for playoff, make it a pure stroke. Make a pure stroke, can't get mad if it goes in or if doesn't. Pure stroke, pure golf swing.   
 If it goes bad, it goes bad. I'm working so hard on my putting. I talked to him while we were together, working hard on it, trying to get better at putting. Last week I came in sixth putting unbelievable. And today I started off putting pretty really well. Hopefully I can do it.  
  
  Q. This course has a reputation of being rowdy at times. Do you like that as a player?  
 BUBBA WATSON: I've never been here before. We'll see how rowdy it gets. It's not good every week. But it's good. It's fun. It's something we don't deal with that much.   
 FBR has it pretty good there on the 16th hole. But it's fun. Sometimes the fans say the wrong thing, makes the people mad, makes the people in the stands mad. All in all, it's good to see the crowd involved and the crowd wants to be involved and cheering people on.  
 I think it's fun. It's a fun environment. Gets you pumped up. Gets you excited about playing. If you play the hole bad, it's not fun.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible)  
 BUBBA WATSON: Putting, that's all it is. This game is all about putting. If you watch the best player ever in the world, Tiger Woods, he putts unbelievable. Every week he putts good. He can hit his driver back, hit his driver good. Every week you can count on him putting well. That's what he does well. That's what everybody out here tries to do. And he's number one in the world, number one putter, and that's what we're trying to accomplish.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible)  
 BUBBA WATSON: No, I'm trying to make it that way. The last two weeks I've been trying to make sure it knows I want it to be good.  
 But, no, that was a joke, we'll say.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible)  
 BUBBA WATSON: I didn't really expect that. With the roughs out there like this, I didn't expect it. They say the wind is supposed to come in and supposed to be bad weather the next couple of days. I didn't really see it. I really didn't see it. I'm glad I'm close to that.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT