THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 31, 2007
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Bubba, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Memorial Tournament.  Nice start to the week, 66.  Talk about what you did well out there.  I heard you talking about how you drove the ball well. 
 BUBBA WATSON:  Yeah, I hit some good shots.  I hit a lot of irons today and just kept the ball in play.  I made two bad swings all day where I just lost focus and wasn't concentrating enough and didn't trust the shot enough.  Two bad swings all day, 17 and I can't remember the other one, but pretty much I stayed focused all day, and that's what my goal is every week is just stay focused.  I'm not worried about hitting shots, I'm just worried about being in the round. 

 Q.  Normally 66 you'd be leader by a couple here.  Today the scores are pretty low.  Is that surprising at all, and what's it like to go out and have a nice easy 66? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  I don't know about easy, but it was nice.  No, today, I'd say the first 14 holes for us, there was no wind.  It was steamy out there, a little hot, but there was no wind so you could hit the ball where you wanted to, just aim it and try to hit at the target and not worry about the wind taking it. 
 The last three holes we started to worry about wind, taking it too far being into the wind or anything.  Other than that, it was a perfect day for scoring. 

 Q.  With the fairways kind of running out, are you able to hit the driver?  Did you have to put it away a little bit today? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  I hit a lot -- like around this golf course, I hit quite a few irons normally, no matter what.  I wasn't really worried about it running out.  I was worried about trying to stay focused and hit it in the fairway. 

 Q.  Did you hit fewer drivers than in earlier years? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  No, just normal.  I didn't change anything. 

 Q.  What did you hit at 15? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  I sliced my driver in the rough. 

 Q.  You hit a driver there? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  Yeah, and then I hit a wedge and hit sand wedge in there. 

 Q.  What causes you to lose focus? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  If I knew, that would be something.  I don't know, just going out there for five hours, I can't sit still.  When I'm at home, I have to be -- on my week off I play golf with everybody back home.  I might go out there for 36 holes.  I've got to do something.  I'll go play basketball, play tennis.  I can't sit still.  I've got to have something -- I just get bored, so going out there in the heat and waiting on the group in front of us.  I've got a weak mind, I guess.  You know, I've got other thoughts going through my head, what movie I'm going to watch tonight, just random stuff. 

 Q.  You said the wind came up the last four holes and you bogeyed 17.  You hit a bad shot on 17? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  Yeah, I hit a bad shot. 

 Q.  Did the wind have a factor there? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  We weren't sure which way the wind was coming.  I kind of thinned my 8-iron from the fairway, kind of hit it to the front left, had about a 50-footer, but I two-putted for par. 

 Q.  So there was indecision? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  Yeah, just never trusted what we came up with, and that's my problem is just not trusting some of my shots. 

 Q.  You had three decent rounds last year, just one bad round, the third round.  Is this a course that you think you can play or that fits what you do? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  Yeah, the fairways seem just a little bit wider than some other courses, and normally it's a little softer here because it always seems like it rains around this week.  For me, I hit it so high, my ball off the tee stops quicker.  Into the greens I have shorter irons than most folks, so I can hit it a little bit higher into there.  It fits my eye, everything about it.  I like it. 

 Q.  How many times did you hit driver today? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  Maybe four times, maybe five times, just off the top of my head. 

 Q.  How many on the par 5s? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  The first one, no.  Driver on the second one.  15, I hit driver.  For some reason I hit driver today on 11.  I saw Camilo hit a driver down the middle, and I was like, if he can do it, I can do it, so I hit driver.  I hit a good shot and I cut it right down the edge of the water and was able to reach the green. 

 Q.  What's it like, you've kind of established yourself out here now and you're getting into invitationals like this week.  How satisfying is that, and where do you think you need to go from here to keep going up? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  I think I've just got to keep grinding away and keep trying to stay focused -- somehow something has got to click where I stay focused.  That's what I have to learn.  The physical part of the game, I think I have all the shots.  Not saying I'm going to be No. 1 in the world, but that's my goal is to try to do that.  If I can stay focused, I think I have a better shot at it.  I can be consistent and play good every week. 
 Through my career, my junior golf and through college and now, every year I've gotten better at everything, my ranking as a junior, and then when I got to college my ranking got better, and then the mini-Tours I went to every level, Nationwide and then here.  Last year I finished 90th, and I don't know what I've made on the Money List this year, but I've done better.  I've had four Top 10s this year.  Every year is a steppingstone and I'm improving, but everyone wants it quicker. 

 Q.  Did you ever see yourself four, five years going to play in Jack's tournament at his course? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  You always see yourself doing that.  But to actually get there, sometimes you've got to step back and realize what I have in my life and how blessed I am. 

 Q.  Have you got a chance to meet Jack? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  I was in his clinic last year.  They gave me a spot in the tournament last year, so I had to do the clinic.  I got to meet him there.  It was nice. 

 Q.  Had you worked with a sports psychologist or anyone about that focus, trying to maintain that? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  No.  I try to do it on my own, so if I succeed, I can say it was all by me.  All these people that get coaches and mental coaches and nutritionists and trainers, they've got to thank everybody before they can thank themselves, how good they played.  It's more fun to do it on my own.  It's more pleasing to me. 

 Q.  Did you figure out what movie you are going to watch tonight? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  No, not yet. 

 Q.  That's a good round then, right? 
 BUBBA WATSON:  Yeah, I stayed focused then.  I thought about where I was going to eat, though.  That's about it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT