THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 1, 2018
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BUBBA WATSON: Today the golf course is still difficult but less wind, easier to get the clubs right.  With the soft conditions easier to hit fairways and hit the greens and stop it on the greens.  Again, the 50 footers, the 40 footers, easier to judge without the wind gusting a little bit, because you feel that a little bit, a little movement of your body and less messing with the golf ball.  So it was a little bit better scoring opportunities.  It doesn't mean you're going to score well because this golf course is pretty difficult but today it worked out.   
 Q.  Nice touch at 18.  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, exactly, that's one of those lucky ones I got.  But it's one of those where I knew I had a shot at getting it up on the green and having a chance for par.  And then it just came out perfect, bounced right and took the break perfectly and went in.  So I'll take that birdie all day.   
 Q.  Do you think the length was the key for scoring for you today?  
BUBBA WATSON: No, length is nice to have, but I would rather be straight.  I missed a lot of fairways the last two days and so I would really like to hit more fairways.  Length is great when you're hitting fairways, but when you're not hitting fairways it isn't very good.   
 Q.  What about using a limited-distance golf ball?  
BUBBA WATSON: Changing the golf ball you're saying?  Only problem with changing the golf ball, the people that keep this industry going, there's a bunch of companies that make golf balls, so which one is going to make the only golf ball?  And then every other golf ball company is going to go out of business because everybody's going to want the ball that the pros play.  So I don't see that happening.  But again I haven't sat down and looked at it, I'm just going off the top of my head right now.   
 Q.  What do you think was the best shot you hit today or most important one, do you think?  
BUBBA WATSON: Gosh, I would have to say, just for the taste of my mouth, the putt on the last hole, just to save par, just to keep my energy level and mental focus and everything up.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BUBBA WATSON: No. 5.  So wherever that par-5 is, yes.   
 Q.  What happened on that hole?  
BUBBA WATSON: I wanted to hit driver and my caddie told me no, so I hit a 3-wood.  I was mad at him.  I hit the fairway then I hit this 4-iron from 228 we had.  I just sliced a 4-iron in there, give or take 12 feet.  And then I somehow made the putt.   
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BUBBA WATSON: I know, the whole -- I just, I get angry.  I wanted to hit driver.  Because there's nowhere to hit it.  I mean where do you hit it?  So I just said, let's hit driver and try to rope hook it and get lucky.  And then after I made eagle he said, do you still want to hit driver?  I said, well I had to play the last two shots perfect to make up for your mistake off the tee.   
 Q.  Happy with where you are right now?  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, very happy, obviously.  To be under par two days in a row at this golf course, with conditions we had yesterday.  The golf course is softer than normal, but I've limited my mistakes.  16 is one of my worst holes I play all year.  I just don't like the look of it.  So I somehow made two pars there.  So that's helped out a lot.  The golf course is, obviously it's -- these scores, you've seen people can shoot a low one.  Phil turned it on there the last like 10 holes, 11 holes, whatever it was.  So you can make some birdies around here.  But yeah it's a good position.  It's always nice to have a shot at it and always nice to be close to the lead, just so if you do catch fire you can move up real fast.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT