WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 25, 2018
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BUBBA WATSON: I didn't really make any mistakes.  I made one mistake, I guessed wrong on No. 7, made a mistake there.  And then I made some putts early.  And when you make putts early, you have a chance to get the lead.  I just played solid and he didn't make any putts.
Q. What is it about your game the last few days here at the championship?
BUBBA WATSON: Just the mental focus.  Trying to make sure I'm in every shot.  Trying to make sure I'm committed to every shot.  If you're down or winning, you still have to make good shots.  You can go on a birdie run, like any of us can do, you can get back in the match or take a big lead.
Q. What are you committed to in the finals to make that happen?
BUBBA WATSON: Just the same thing, play good golf.  And hopefully they go a lot of extra holes, so I can get some rest and they'll be tired.
Q. Very impressive victory over Justin Thomas.  You showed great form early, you didn't give him a whole lot of chances?
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it was good.  I made one mistake.  We guessed wrong on 7, the par-3.  Made a bogey.  No other bogeys that I can think of.  He missed some putts that he normally makes.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, not hitting it hard enough.  The first few days, the golf course was getting firm and fast.  The greens were getting scary, and so over the last couple of days the temperature has changed a little bit.  The humidity in the air slowed them down.  I am still seeing the fast and scary greens, but it's not really there yet.
Q. Like your chances this afternoon?
BUBBA WATSON: Well, yeah, there's only two of us.  I have a good shot at it.
Q. (Inaudible.)
BUBBA WATSON: I putted really well.  I saw the lines pretty good.  The committed strokes, the committed putts are what are key.  And the last couple of days, the guys that I played with didn't make the putts and I made the putts.  So it was in my favor.
Q. When you had the 3-up lead with four to play, did you decide, I'm going to play solid golf in here and make him beat me?
BUBBA WATSON: I guess.  I tried to make sure that I made par on that difficult pin on the last hole.  15 is very tough pins, it doesn't matter if you lay back, you go up close to the green, it's a very difficult pin.  So I tried to get par there.  And here you've got to make birdie.  If you don't make birdie on the par-5s with a player like that, No. 1, No. 2, doesn't matter, he's a great player.  I knew I had to birdie, so that's what I did.
Q. This wonderful journey continues, tell us about this morning.
BUBBA WATSON: It's nice to get off to a good start.  Birdied a couple of times on the first hole and did it today.  Gives you a little bit of momentum.  Again, he played good, hit great iron shots, but just didn't make any putts.  I made a few more putts than him, and that's how you keep moving on here.
Q. The final is what you wanted when you arrived here.  I suppose now you go relax, come down and then build yourself up again?
BUBBA WATSON: I'm hoping these guys go a lot of extra holes and get tired.  It's one of those things where it's 50/50.  I have a shot at winning.  It's a good week no matter what, but I'm going to give it my all and it will be fun.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT