WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2018
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Again, with Bubba Watson, victorious.  Talk about spending the last four days with me.  
BUBBA WATSON: It's pretty good, I keep advancing, so that's the key.  We're just trying to put the ball in position, trying to play in angles, trying to get the best birdie chances or best par chances.  Some of the these pins and hole locations are very difficult.   
 Q.  We've been talking about this, also, where's the putting been the last three seasons?  All of a sudden you're in Austin and you're putting like Ben Crenshaw.  
BUBBA WATSON: We've been working on it.  We played the loft.  The engineers at Ping changed the loft.  They took over my putting and said this is what we're going to do for you.  It's been working the last couple of weeks, and obviously in LA it worked.   
 Q.  Second time in your career you've made it to the semifinals of the Final Four?  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it's exciting, you know.  Starting the week you don't know what you're going to do and how good you're going to play.  And it's really about the other guys, too, right?  You can play as good as you want but if the other guy plays better, it doesn't matter.   
It's pretty nice getting to play on Sunday, no matter what.  36 holes tomorrow, it will be fun.   
 Q.  Aside from what I'll call a hiccup, you got a little happy on that wedge shot on 9, you played great golf today?  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, for sure.  On 9 you're landing into the green, so I didn't want to spin it, as we saw his ball spun, it didn't spin off the green into the water, but it was close.  That was what I was trying to fight.  I never got comfortable with the shot I wanted to hit.  So I was just -- I really just messed up there.   
 Q.  I fashion you as a shot milker.  This golf course is a shot maker's golf course, do you agree with that?  
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, for sure, with some of these pins and hole locations, you can hit driver, so you can have say better angle to some of these pins, like No. 10.  The last couple of shots I hit iron off the tee, but I was hitting driver before, because of the angles into up the pins.   
Same as 12 and 13.  Hitting driver sometimes and then laying up a couple of times just to get a little bit better angle.   
 Q.  (Inaudible.)  
BUBBA WATSON: Well, I hate to say it, I duffed it into 9.  And then he watched me, obviously, so he duffed it on 10, so gave me a quick hole there.  We had two difficult putts on 11.  And he three-putted.  And then I birdied the par-5 and birdied the next hole.  It was one of those where he gave me a hole and then the three-putt gave me another one.   
So it wasn't like I did excellent golf.  It was just I gave him a hole on 9 and he gave me a couple of holes, and I birdied a couple of holes.  It was great for me.   
He's obviously a good friend of mine.  You hate to beat a friend, but at the same time we're all here trying to beat each other.   
 Q.  How much do you think creativity at shot making helps on this golf course?  It's a tricky course, isn't it?  
BUBBA WATSON: Yes, it can be, for sure.  Some of the hills, lumps and bumps, some of these pin locations, you can hit different shots.  You can play from different angles and create your own shots and have a better chance for birdies.   
 Q.  Are you looking forward to tomorrow?  
BUBBA WATSON: The sad thing is I had a vacation planned.  I was supposed to leave tomorrow morning.  I figured I wasn't going to make it, so I went ahead and scheduled a vacation.  So I've got to call my wife now and tell her that I'm going to be a day late.  But it will be fun.  I can't wait.  This is exciting.  This is what we all want to do.  We want to make it to Sunday and have a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT