WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 23, 2018
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Birdie, birdie on the last two holes to advance.
BUBBA WATSON: Well, it means I make it to Saturday.  It was a great match.  He didn't make a bogey all day.  I made one bogey.  What a match, you know?  Obviously for me, it's great for me because I get to advance.
Q. Congratulations, very tough match for you today, wasn't it?
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, very tough.  He didn't make a bogey.  I made one bogey.  Got lazy on the drive on whatever hole that was, 15, I think.  And then the greens were a lot slower, a lot softer than what I expected.  I couldn't get used to anything.  Some of my chips -- but he played so good.  Luckily I made a couple of birdies coming down the stretch.
Q. Do I dare say you were clutch at 17 and 18?
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, I guess you can.  But it freed me up, I knew I was in a playoff no matter what.  Teddy kept saying, free it up.  Just get some practice in.  And then a birdie happens and you're like, wait a second, we're still in this.  He had a great putt on 17 and a great putt on 18.  Luckily for me I had a chance to make them and he missed.
Q. Winning the last two holes to ultimately halve the match and move on to Saturday, how would you describe the course today?
BUBBA WATSON: Very difficult.  The key was I had a hole to play with.  I was going to go to a playoff no matter what.  The last two holes Teddy said go birdie, birdie, you have a shot at it.  But no matter what you've got the playoff in your back pocket.  So just get ready for that.  And we hit a good shot in there.  He made two great putts on 17 and 18.  He made no bogeys, I made one bogey.  We both played good golf.  I just got lucky coming down the stretch.
Q. You were playing good this year, what attitude did you bring to match play this week?
BUBBA WATSON: Just have fun.  It's luck.  We call it a golf tournament, but it's just luck.
Q. How is it luck?
BUBBA WATSON: You just don't know, you wake up one side of the bed the wrong way, you shoot 2-under and the other guy shoots 7-under.  But it's one of those things where you shoot under par, you can lose.  But if you have 72 holes, you've got the next three days to keep fighting.  But here you've only got 18 holes or you're going home.  It's a lot tougher.  That's why I say it's lucky.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT