THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 24, 2017
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BUBBA WATSON: Played solid to keep the par putts, keep the momentum, keep my round going.  Hit the driver nicely.  Just try to keep it in play and every shot that I hit off, I could still advance it to the green so it gave me the chance to save a par or just keep the round going.
Q. How are you approaching the Playoffs, knowing you need to perform?  Are you taking it day-by-day, or are you desperate to make a big run?
BUBBA WATSON: You know, it's golf.  My thing is just play until they tell me I can't play anymore.  You know, truthfully, when I'm done with the Playoffs, no matter where that is, I'm taking at least four and a half months off.  I won't play until next year.
So I'm looking forward to playing good golf or I'm looking forward to going home for some vacation.  Either way, I'm going to be tee-ball coach.  So looking forward to that, being home with the family and just have a blast.
Q. Tell us about the reasoning for the long break.
BUBBA WATSON: I don't know about you, but traveling every week, my kids started kindergarten.  My family's not going to be able to travel as much anymore.  So I just want time off.
If I had to choose golf or family, I'm going family every day of the week.  You understand that.
Q. 18 you finished with the hand; is it that shot or the greens in general?
BUBBA WATSON: The ball, it rolled two feet past -- or a foot and a half past normally, but here they are running out, so it might be four feet, three feet.  So you are having testers all day to save par.
And on 18, it didn't run out, so now I had a tester short.  It's the first one I left short all day.  It's like, man, this course never let's up.  So I had a 4-footer, give or take a 4-footer to make -- to go bogey-free.  And so, you know, I wanted to make it and I wanted it to be a tap-in instead of having to stress over a 4-footer.
Q. How pleased are you?
BUBBA WATSON: First day, I'm very pleased.  We want a chance on Sunday.  So one more day to make sure I make the cut and then just keep fighting and have a chance on Sunday afternoon.
Q. Do you feel like having that long family break will help you next season, coming in refreshed?
BUBBA WATSON: I'm not worried about that, the FedExCup or being behind.  If you ask every player and they answer truthfully, we're worried about week-to-week.  We're trying to lift that trophy week-to-week.  Nobody is focused on trying to win the trophy at the end of the Playoffs.  We're trying to win this week, and next week we want to win that trophy.  I know what we have to talk about and write about, and if you win enough, you'll get the big one at the end of the four weeks.
Q. Given what you said earlier about family and your mind-set going into this, and either going to next week or going home and vacationing, is that helping you play more freely?
BUBBA WATSON: I think it's just one of those things.  Golf is golf.  You play bad golf and then you play great golf.  I win this week, they will talk about how great I am.  I miss the cut next week, they will talk about how I'm not very good.  It's just how it is.  So I can't look at that.
All I know is where my mind was, where my focus was the first half of the year; it wasn't in the right spot to play the best game of golf.  Now, I'm driving, I'm dedicated and I want to be back on top.  I want to win tournaments, so this is the best way I know how to do it.  So hopefully when this is over, I'm in Atlanta and then I get to take a break after that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT