THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 9, 2017
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just wrap up the week for us if you can.
BUBBA WATSON: It was a good week.  I was talking to Governor Jim on 17 over there when he came out.  First of all, I made fun of him that he had a cart.  But no, I told him, I said, at the beginning of the week we were all looking at that weather scratching our heads, fearing another disappointing -- obviously not as bad as last year, but we were fearing the worst on weather, and to get this golf tournament in, to get just a slight bit of rain here and there but no delays is beautiful.  You know, it's one of those things that we needed, West Virginia needed, White Sulphur Springs needed.
So no, it was a great week.  I don't ever look at the golf anymore.  I mean, we always -- no matter if you win the golf tournament or not, you always want to improve, and if you win the golf tournament and you bogey the last hole, you know you bogeyed the last hole, even though you might have won by a billion.  So I'm just looking at it from a perspective of a fan of golf, a fan of the Greenbrier, and again, the problem we had last year, trying to get better and recover from it, so it was good.
Q. Where do you go from here game-wise?
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it's the same as every week.  You're always just trying to practice and get better and trying to dial it in.  You know, I've been testing a lot of equipment lately because Ping has got a new driver out, and trying to test that but then going back to the old stuff, it's just one of those things where you've got to do it because the company has asked, but I'm not saying that's the excuse, but it's just -- you've got to keep grinding and hopefully you find something and something clicks and you go from there.
Q. What's the name of your club you're trying out?
BUBBA WATSON: It's a G400 they just came out with.
Q. You were trying out the G35 two years ago, weren't you?
BUBBA WATSON: It was a G30, now it's a G.  I'm playing a G right now.  It went from G30 to G and then the G400.
Q. Is there a sense of relief all the hats you had to wear this week, getting tugged at from all different angles?
BUBBA WATSON: No, there's no such thing as relief.
Q. From all the duty you were doing this week?
BUBBA WATSON: No, I know what you're saying, but no, I love this place.  I'm an ambassador for this place.  I want to help.  I try to help anywhere I can.  You know, and you've got to remember, these golf tournaments are all charity events.  Even though we're playing for lots of money, there's a lot of money getting passed out to help the community.  Every week we go to a tournament we're always wearing a different hat, and I think sometimes we forget that there is a hat that's called a golfer, but really we're there for more than that, and that's the way we should look at it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT