TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 24, 2016
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You make six birdies in a round, you've got to be really happy.
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, really happy.  Around this golf course especially.  This golf course is so difficult when you just miss the fairways.  Number -- I don't know what it is now.  It's like 14 or 5, whatever you want to call it.  The par 5 is a par 4.  I missed the fairway by a couple of feet and had to wedge it out, I couldn't get to the green.  It wasn't like a bad tee shot, but it was just bad enough to where I had to chip out.
The golf course is very difficult.  Today I made a couple of putts.
Q. That was the big difference for you is making a few more putts today?
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, my ball striking has been right where I want it.  I'm hitting the driver nicely.  The ball is cutting perfectly like I want.  Around here the ball goes further because of the way the grass is and as hot as it has been.  It's just making putts.  If you go around my last few days, I didn't make any putts.  I made one putt over ten feet, if that.
Q. Any difference on the course today over yesterday still?  Just as hard?
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it's just as hard, but if you look at statistics, every time you play in the morning, everybody plays better for some reason.  I don't know what it is.  Everybody is anxious to get out there.  So there's nothing different.  They didn't change anything.  The only thing we saw that made it a little bit easier was the new number 9.  They moved the tee up to the tee we've never played before.  Hitting a 9 iron in there made it a lot easier.
Q. Your Bulldogs are playing Ole Miss right now.  You guys had to start early because of football.  What would you say to moving this back to Labor Day so there wouldn't be so much competition with football?
BUBBA WATSON: It's just anything, you know.  Football just happens to be -- what if you're a NASCAR fan?  What if you want to watch NASCAR on Sunday?  Or Saturday night, depending on what race it is.  You're always going to be battling something.  Just how it goes.
Q. What are your thoughts regarding the Ryder Cup after your round today?
BUBBA WATSON: They're the same.  I'm so far back that -- captain said that he was picking based off of who's going to fit the team, who's going to fit players, who's going to complement other players.  Hopefully, at the end of the day, it's me, but you never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT