BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 9, 2016
Bubba Watson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Certainly put yourself back in it with that nice round today, 66.
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, it was nice.  I think the last I checked the leader was 14.  I don't know what he is now.  But I'm still way back.  But, no, it was good.  I made some putts.  Last few months I haven't made any putts, made a few putts today or this round and so it was nice.
Q. Obviously only halfway through.  When the round began you were like 31st.  Now you're like 24 or 25.  So is this something you needed to do, to insure you make it to the TOUR Championship?
BUBBA WATSON: Yeah, I just got to play golf.  I'm not worried about it.  If I make it, then I'll play another week.  If I don't make it, I get some time off.  So it's nice.  It's been a tough schedule with all these big tournaments right back to back.  So it be would be nice to have some time off.  But at the same time we want a chance to win the FedExCup.
Q. How are you feeling?  You played a lot of big-time golf.
BUBBA WATSON: I feel great.  We're athletes, so we're used to it.  Bad weather and tough schedules, that's just what happens.  But any time you can spend time with your wife and kids it's always a good time.
Q. Do you feel like you're an ironman triathlete?
BUBBA WATSON: No, it's nothing different than the other tournaments that we have had to, we have had problems at.
Q. I mean with all the tournaments bunched up.
BUBBA WATSON: No, it's just how it is.  If I was fighting to keep my card, I would put in more tournaments.  So it's nothing different than my rookie season when I played about 30 events or so.
Q. Just because of where we are on the schedule with the TOUR Championship two weeks away and Davis making his picks on Monday, which one is on your mind more?
BUBBA WATSON: Obviously Ryder Cup.  I want to play on the Ryder Cup.  My whole goal this year was the Ryder Cup and the Olympics.  That's all I cared about the whole year was making those two events.  I didn't care how I did it, as long as I made those events.  And I got in the Olympics, so I got one more to go, I guess.
Q. Had much conversation with Davis?
BUBBA WATSON: Nope, haven't talked to him at all.
Q. When was the last time you talked to him?
BUBBA WATSON: I saw him at -- I think he didn't play or -- he was at Akron for some reason.  I saw him at Akron.  So I talked to him there.
Q. Do you remain optimistic that you'll get a call from him?
BUBBA WATSON: Well, you know, I got two more days to impress or, hopefully, he looks at World Rankings and sees I'm pretty decent, so.
Q. Do you feel like you impressed at all the last couple months?
BUBBA WATSON: Well always, because I told you my goals.  It's like if your whole goal was to win, you're going to press to try to win.  My whole goal was to make the Olympics.  I made that and now, as soon as the Olympics was over, I was trying to make the Ryder Cup.  So it's golf, we all press, it's just who can deal with it the best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT