NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 28, 2007
Chris Webber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  The Pistons are similar to your team at Michigan.  What do you remember about those days?   
 CHRIS WEBBER:  I remember feeling a lot like I do on this team, just confident that when we walked in the building that we had the best 12 guys, and they're guys you can count on.  It's very familiar to the feeling I had then with the team I play for now.   
  
  Q.  Last night when you went up and under on that drive, that looked like the season of 1991 except --   
 CHRIS WEBBER:  No, as long as it goes in it's the same thing.   
  
  Q.  Is that still in the repertoire given the right conditions?   
 CHRIS WEBBER:  Oh, yeah, given the right conditions, a little bit of time, yeah, I feel it's still in the repertoire.   
  
  Q.  Talk about the mindset heading into Game 4.   
 CHRIS WEBBER:  That we're going to be ready and everybody had better bring their A game because we're going to be ready.   
  
  Q.  (Inaudible).   
 CHRIS WEBBER:  Yeah, definitely.  We're going to be ready.   
  
  Q.  What gives you that feeling?   
 CHRIS WEBBER:  Because I know us.  We've got to give LeBron credit, he made some very tough shots in the fourth quarter.  But we're a good team when we play against good teams, and we're going to lock in and be ready.  They played a great game.  I mean, they won on their home court.  That's what they want to do, try to get one, and we want to try to get this one before we go back home.   
  
  Q.  You look at Game 3 and how Chauncey and Rip played, and still you had a chance to win.  Is that part of the confidence, that hey, we didn't play our best game and we were still right there?   
 CHRIS WEBBER:  I've been in the NBA a long time.  I'd never want to check a player that had a bad game.  I don't care if he had two bad games, but I wouldn't want to check the game coming up.  I wouldn't want to check Chauncey, either.  That encourages us because our defensive effort is going to be there every night.  That's going to be a given.  If our guys score we should be okay.   
  
  Q.  You played many years out West, now there's a little talk that the West is so much more interesting than the East and that the East is -- I've heard words like "unwatchable" and "used," is the defense just that much better out here?   
 CHRIS WEBBER:  No, it's style of play.  It's style of play.  West is definitely a lot more fun as far as the flow.  But there's a lot of good basketball in the East, a lot of tough basketball in the East.  I think it's just style of play.  You're running, you don't call as many plays, there's free throws, more style.  It is fun, it's playground style.  It is more fun.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT