NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 23, 2007
Chris Webber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Is it any different from the regular season? 
 CHRIS WEBBER:  It's a little bit different, but I mean, each series is different, so we really just play as the series comes.  We're just trying to make sure that I do whatever I can when I'm in there to get a win. 

 Q.  They did involve you more in the third quarter and there was some success there, do you expect that to be revisited? 
 CHRIS WEBBER:  I don't know.  I don't know.  We got the win, and that's most important.  I don't know.  I'm really not concerned with that. 

 Q.  Talk about being in foul trouble in Game 1. 
 CHRIS WEBBER:  I've been in early foul trouble more.  It was okay, I just wanted to be in the second half, third or fourth quarter.  Still played pretty good besides that, so hopefully I don't get in foul trouble this game and stay in there a little longer. 

 Q.  What did you do today to work on offensive rebounding? 
 CHRIS WEBBER:  Really we just have to make an effort, watch film, and realize where our gaps are.  We have to realize -- keep them off the glass.  Big Z is really tough to keep off the glass, he's so tall and long, he can kick it in without really jumping.  Just mentally prepare for it than anything physically, just looking at film and seeing what we can take advantage of it. 

 Q.  Do you like the two-day layoff between games as opposed to playing every other day? 
 CHRIS WEBBER:  Doesn't matter.  You know, it's going to get to every other day pretty soon, so playing ball, you play two games in the same day in tournaments, so any day of rest is good.  But it really doesn't matter, one or two days. 

 Q.  Talk about how close you are to getting the Finals. 
 CHRIS WEBBER:  You know, I'm really trying not to think about it.  I've been to the Western Conference Finals before, and I know it doesn't help to think about the future.  You've got to take care of now. 
 I know I'm close, but, you know, you've got to get there.  Being close doesn't matter. 

 Q.  Talk about the difference between the Eastern Conference Finals and the Western Conference Finals. 
 CHRIS WEBBER:  The style of play -- I think the Western because you run a lot more, you really don't get tired in these games because of timeouts and the way we play our style. 
 So the Western Conference was a little faster paced.  But here it's a lot more physical, so they both have disadvantages. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT