NASCAR GANDER OUTDOORS TRUCK SERIES: FORD ECOBOOST 200
November 15, 2019
Brett Moffitt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: We have Brett Moffitt, driver of the No.24 CMR Construction & Roofing Chevrolet for GMS Racing. Brett, go ahead and tell us how your run went tonight. 
BRETT MOFFITT: Not good. 

Q. How green was the track, and how did you have to adjust for the conditions with all the rain we had today? 
BRETT MOFFITT: It was pretty green, but it was pretty much exactly what we had this morning in practice. You know, we actually fired off, and I think everyone kind of knew what to expect. Probably tightened it up a little bit from the end of practice, and away we went. 
But yeah, we didn't really do too much, just we were fighting loose all day, so we kept tightening the truck up and finally got a decent balance, just missed it on overall speed a little bit. 

Q. I can't help but think back to last year when we watched you win the championship in the 16 truck and yet kind of the same thing happened with GMS a year ago here. What kind of things were you fighting throughout the race? Was it just a lack of what you needed? 
BRETT MOFFITT: Yeah, we missed it on overall grip. We had okay long run speed. But we just couldn't fire off and run pace, and we couldn't run the bottom. Scott and those guys have a really good setup for here, and it can run the bottom long and fast. It's proven to be the truck to beat here the last two years, and we just need to go to work. We need to get better here. 

Q. You pitted before the leaders there, but was there any chance to really short pit and have anything for them? 
BRETT MOFFITT: No, I mean, we had too much‑‑ we struggled to take off too much, and the gap that the 88 had opened up, you weren't going to overcome that, and if you did, he was going to drive right back by you because he had to pit so early in the run. 
Ultimately we were good on the long run, so at that point in the run I was starting to actually close that gap back up some. But no, I mean, there's‑‑ with the tire falloff here, there's no way we could have short pitted enough to make it back up. Our only hope after the pit stops were for a caution, and obviously that didn't come. 
THE MODERATOR: I know it was a tough night, but congratulations on a great season and thanks so much for your time. Enjoy the off‑season. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT