ICC WOMEN'S WORLD T20
March 2, 2020
Sophie Devine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Australia - 155/5, New Zealand - 151/7   
 Q.  Where did you feel it went awry?  
SOPHIE DEVINE: It's a tough one. You could probably look back at every single ball of the game and probably could find different things for each bowler that played. I thought probably at the end we probably left a few too many runs, didn't execute quite as we would have liked to the death. But we know the threat that they bring with their batting order, they're deep.   
But I thought it was a fantastic chase by us to get so close at the end there. And to miss out by, what was it, four runs at the end, it does, it shows we're close.   
 Q.  Any idea to have Anna bowl first?  
SOPHIE DEVINE: No, it wasn't. We just felt that, look, the wicket was a good wicket and it certainly proved it. I think it was the highest score at this grounds for a while, so look I thought we could put the Australians under pressure. And I thought we did. Like I said, I probably let them off the hook a little bit near the end of the innings and it nearly came off. It certainly would have been a master stroke if we had won, but not to be.   
 Q.  I guess it kind of hangs around in ICC tournaments in the past several editions that not quite going as far as perhaps your talent should lead you. It's happened again. What do you think it is that's sort of stops New Zealand getting to that last stages?  
SOPHIE DEVINE: Yeah, geez, it's a great question. I think certainly skill wise we're there. I think everyone knows that we're a really talented side and we're growing at depth. And we've seen today even with myself, Suzie not firing right, and Rachel Priest not firing, we came close to chasing down a really strong Australian side.   
So, whether it's a mindset or mental thing or whether it's game awareness, whether it's just game experience playing in those pressure situations, which we haven't played too much international cricket the last 12 months. Whether that's something as well. When we get back we'll certainly go through everything and nitpick at it because it's a crappy feeling to miss out again. And, look, it's really raw, but we certainly want to keep pushing and showing that we deserve to be there.   
 Q.  Just in that period after Suzie's wicket, I think there were two runs scored off 12 balls. I know you mentioned the bowling maybe not restricting them. But how important do you think the running between the wickets and maybe those little singles were particularly in that period?  
SOPHIE DEVINE: Look, that's why Australia is such a good side because they strangle teams. And we're no different. I thought Wareham today was outstanding the way she bowled and restricted JJ again just what JJ does.   
But for us it's about how you can get around it and how you can get up and down the wicket and break that up and get a bit of momentum back your way. As we saw, we were needing 12 third innings off the last four, five overs and we had nearly done it. But it is, it just shows us that you have to absorb pressure sometimes, especially in these pressure situations. If you can absorb and give it back, that's what's going to make us a great team. It's just about how we do it for longer periods and pump it back out at the opposition.   
 Q.  Georgia, you mentioned her spell, and I guess she was economical but also the wicket-taking option. Is it a little bit different thing to face Australia now where they're having to rely a bit on spin having, obviously they lost Tayla before tournament and Ellyse has gone down today, it's a different scenario?  
SOPHIE DEVINE: I think it is. I think it's rather pitch conditions. Obviously we've spoken about it -- conditions haven't been what we expected when we first came over to Australia. As soon as we heard the World Cup was coming here, we thought nice, fast bouncy wickets. Probably haven't had those, but today's wicket was a lot better. Obviously had more carry and bounce in it.   
But spinners played a massive part throughout the tournament and will continue to do so moving into the final series. And certainly with Australia losing Tayla early in the competition, I know that was a massive blow to them. But we know, again, the depth, spoken a lot about with the bat, but certainly with the ball, the way that Georgia Wareham stood up today was fantastic.   
Geez, I hate it sometimes, but they're world-class players. And I think it's a great thing about Australia -- I don't like blowing them up too much because they've got big enough heads already, but doesn't matter who on the day, someone always seems to step up for them.   
 Q.  Is there, I suppose as an opponent, a bit of sympathy for Ellyse going down like that? Looked fairly substantial.  
SOPHIE DEVINE: Anyone that goes down at a world event, at any point, it's really hard to see, and especially someone like Ellyse, who we know what she brings to the women's game. And people were saying she might not play this game. I didn't have any doubts that she was going to play. She'd have her leg amputated for her not to take the field. It looked like she nearly did snap her leg off.   
I really hope she has a speedy recovery whatever injury she sustained. It's a real blow for the women's game. I know it definitely will be for Australia, but the world loses out on a great player.   
 Q.  You said spin has played a part in this World Cup. New Zealand have always been a team who embraced the pace that Lea brings to your side. The last couple of games saw her only used for that one over and then not used thereafter. What was the feeling with those plans?  
SOPHIE DEVINE: I think again today sort of goes back to the pitch conditions. We obviously have seen in the last two games that sort of steady, medium pace, bowling stump to stump has been really effective, where the extra pace is at times a bit easier to get a hold of, especially if you only have to miss by a millimeter, and it seems that the ball flies to all corners of the park.   
We certainly back Lea massively. I think when you've got someone with extra pace she's always going to be a threat. It's just about how we use her and how we can match her up against certain players. So, again, it's something that we'll need to go away and think about how we use, not just Lea, but all our bowlers and who they match up with best.   
 Q.  And again, considering after the last tournament there were some questions, there was a little bit of a contractual overhaul back in New Zealand, more money going into the game, new leadership with you and Bob Carter coming into the tournament. Did the feel, was the environment slightly different coming in? Was there more belief even back home the right steps have been taken, there was a new pair in charge? Was the environment different?  
SOPHIE DEVINE: Yeah, absolutely, look, being on the money there. There was a big overhaul and it wasn't just at the top level with White Ferns. It's the domestic stuff as well. And New Zealand cricket has invested a lot into the women's game. We've seen globally that women's cricket has certainly come on leaps and bounds. And we're no different. I think for us having Bob involved has been huge.   
And you've got to remember that he's only been on the job 12 months. But we've only played two series in that time with him at the helm. And I know we've had a few winter camps in that time. But we're certainly still trying to figure each other out, certainly me and Bob. But I think there's really positive signs there.   
I think the group has obviously -- as I said, we're actually really close. You see the India game, this game here, we're close to sides that have a lot more money, have a lot more resources, have a lot more player depth than we do. And to think we've taken both of them to within five, six runs, it shows that we're not far. But it does, we're going to have to do things slightly different in New Zealand because we don't have the same amount of people. We don't have the same amount of resources. But we certainly do have things in our favour. And that's what we've got to keep working at.   
 Q.  Just on that theme, you mentioned matchups, New Zealand not having a left-armer or a left-handed batter in the lineup, kind of makes things a little bit predictable for this tournament. How do you develop those types of players so that you have more flexibility at your disposal at future tournaments?  
SOPHIE DEVINE: Well, we have to stop having children, that helps. But, look, it certainly is an area. And we've seen left-hand spin throughout this tournament, again, has been massive to that extent as well.   
At the top there it is a real threat in the women's game. And we certainly are taking steps back in New Zealand to identify young left-armers, whether that's spin pace or left-hand bats.   
We do know that sort of does add a bit of variety to each side. But you can only pick what you've got in front of you. Yeah, it's certainly something moving ahead we've obviously got a massive world event back at home. And just over 12 months' time, which we're really looking forward to, and hopefully then there might be a few more left-handers. Hopefully Branch, Amy and Lea, little Grace may be a left-hander, fingers crossed. We'll get her into the nets.   
 Q.  Jacob Oram said yesterday that he quite likes your attacking style of captaincy. How have you enjoyed this stint, especially in your first world tournament in the role? And also, if given the opportunity in the near future to carry on with captaincy or even after Amy returns, would you be keen on continuing?  
SOPHIE DEVINE: Yes, certainly, I guess that's a discussion again that needs to be had. If and when Amy returns to the side and what that looks like leadership-wise. But I guess for me, I've always been, I guess, an aggressive player. And I sort of want to continue that with my captaincy.   
I think we had a great role model in Brendon McCullum a couple years ago who always took the game on. And I don't want to be any different with this bunch of female athletes. We do want to be really attacking and aggressive in how we go about things, whether that's putting people under the lid in the field or whether it's bouncing people out, whatever it might be. Bob always talks about stepping forward rather than taking a step back. And that's certainly what we want to do, not only with my leadership, but with this whole group.   
 Q.  You did mention a lack of international cricket over the past year and the World Cup next year. What does next year look like for you guys? Are you playing more cricket?  
SOPHIE DEVINE: I hope so. Actually, I have no idea. I know we're going to Sri Lanka in about a month or so time, which is really exciting. And then there's a few camps on the horizon. I do think we're taking on Aussie at the start of summer again which is a great fixture to set off what's going to be a massive summer for us back at home.   
I think there are a few international sides looking to come over to New Zealand, which is great. And I think that this is the way the women's game is going is there's more cricket being played now. And that's certainly what we want to be involved with. And we want to be playing the top sides.   
I think you learn a lot about yourself when you come up against sides that are ranked higher than you. And as well it's about playing teams that are ranked below you as well because at the end of the day we've all got a duty to grow this game.   
We've seen obviously Thailand at this tournament has been outstanding. I'm sure they'll take a lot away from their time here. And it is, it's part of our role to play those teams and raise the standard of women's cricket.   
 Q.  Ahead of the tournament you had said you would love to play South Africa in the final. That is not to be, unfortunately. Which are the two teams, in your opinion, who are the strongest contenders to make it to the MCG on March 8th?  
SOPHIE DEVINE: I have to say Australia because they beat us. Actually it's not going to happen, because I'd say Australia/South Africa, which might not happen, depending on what happens tomorrow.   
But again, I don't know. I think that's the great thing about this tournament is I honestly do not know who is going to win this competition, because every team is so even.   
And especially T20 cricket, it takes one player to change the game. I'm going to probably sulk for a day or two and then I'm going to be like any other fan watching this tournament, because it's a fantastic exhibition of the women's game. And I'm certainly hopeful I can find some ticket to get to the ground and maybe see me streak with Katy Perry performing there maybe.   
But, look, I think it's going to be such a close tournament. And I wish I was there playing at the MCG, not to be. So I'll be watching from the stands.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT