AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2009
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DOKIC/C. Wozniacki
  3-6, 6-1, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Would you say that's the biggest win of your career to date? 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, under the circumstances maybe. But I wouldn't say the biggest. Probably, yeah, the sweetest at the moment. It's a pretty big one for me, especially in the last couple years. 

 Q. You said in your on-court interview that by losing the first set it was a favor to you. What do you mean by that?
 JELENA DOKIC: We started off the match -- actually, I was surprised how well she was handling her game. Even though she got the early break, I felt pretty comfortable playing the match. I felt like I wasn't getting blown off the court. 
 Then I lost the first set, and I don't know, I just kind of started to play better and swing easier. Yeah, I was able to get that first break in the second set, and things just kind of started turning around. 

 Q. When you're able to play that well against someone who's 11 in the world, what do you think that tells you about where you are in your redevelopment as a player?
 JELENA DOKIC: For my second-round match I said I was going into the match just to see at what level I'm at and how I will handle a top 20 player. I got that win and, you know, to beat her today. She's been really on a great roll. She had a great 2008. She continued last week and also nearly beat Serena. 
 Yeah, I'm amazed at how well -- she's on the verge of getting into the top 10. We can say she is a top-10 player. To be able to play these matches, be here with these girls, and also more amazing for me is physically that I'm able to play third sets like day in and day out with these girls is amazing. 
 It's only the start of the year. I think I can only get better from here. 

 Q. You seem to be more in charge of your emotions now, more comfortable with where you're at. Is it starting to sink in? Are you starting to become a believer in yourself and what you can do?
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, I had a tough couple of years. I got it in my mind that I'm starting from zero, just to see what I can do. I have a lot of experience, so that goes in my favor. Mentally even before I was a really strong person mentally. I won a lot of three-set matches. I was always there and fighting and never going away. That's kind of what I'm doing now. 
 I think I have a better game than I used to. I really mix it up a lot and worked on my fitness. I still have a ways to go. Just feel like I'm a more mature player. That's why I'm able to put in more mature performances, too. 

 Q. You had a lot of build up to it and you've done a lot of work. Now that you're actually out on court and beating some of the top girls. What's that done for your confidence?
 JELENA DOKIC: My confidence is really great at the moment. Like I said, to start the year like this, I'm really looking forward to the rest of the year. I think my goal was to be in the top 50 by the end of the year. I'm still, you know, keeping that and getting my head to getting to the top 50. 
 But I think I'm really on the right track. Confidence plays a huge part in a player's ability and their game. It plays a huge part in mine as well. I can only go up from here. 

 Q. When was the last time you felt such a buzz on a tennis court that you obviously, by your reactions, both during and after the game, felt tonight? 
 JELENA DOKIC: I mean, it's been great. The crowd and playing on center court is just really something else. It's kind of -- that also lifted me up as well, especially after the match with Chakvetadke two nights ago. 
 I actually went into the match today with absolutely no pressure. Even if I lost, I said the same two nights ago: I would have been happy with my performance. 
 I missed some chances in the first set. Even if I lost the second set and the match I wouldn't have been too disappointed. I'm there. I'm not struggling with their games and they're not blowing me off the court. I'm moving well. I'm getting to a lot of balls and I'm serving well as well. 
 So there's nothing to be disappointed about, even when you lose here, because I think I'm showing that I can play at this level.

 Q. Just the sense of excitement of being out there and the emotions of being in...
 JELENA DOKIC: It's huge at the moment. I don't think even after the first match it was such a huge win for me. Like I said, when you have four or five months off players struggle physically. You know, the lack of match fitness is there. To come out after three years off and be beating these players that play week and week while that have been playing for the last three years while I've on struggling with other things is great. 
 I don't think it's sunk in yet. I will not get too excited from here. My plans stay the same. I would like to play more tournaments and still stick to the same goals that I have.

 Q. Do you think it's to your advantage that these girls haven't played you before and don't know what to expect?
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, but, you know, a lot of the girls that are still on tour have played me before. But I think I have -- I play pretty aggressively and I hit the ball -- I dictate and I hit the ball pretty hard. 
 I think I improved a lot on my movement and I'm able to mix it up more. I don't just hit up and down the court. I really kept her guessing as well tonight. That's why I think I won that third set.

 Q. Are you surprised a little by yourself? 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, I am. Because like I said, it's very hard to come after a couple years off, and to beat a girl who is 11 or 18 in the world is, yeah, amazing. 
 So it's not quite sinking in yet because I'm still playing. Yeah, I mean, I have absolutely no words. I couldn't have imagined a better start to the year or to play so well at a Grand Slam.

 Q. You were almost a little bit embarrassed when you apologized out there. Do you feel like you want to give a little bit back?
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, look, we've had a lot of difficult situations. I think we all know that. I made it difficult for myself and Tennis Australia and Craig Tiley. There's no excuse for that, no matter what I was going through. 
 Even my comments last year, when I arrived here two months ago, were out of line. But, you know, we're working on our relationship. Craig Tiley has been of tremendous help and has given me chances over and over and believed in me. 
 So, yeah, it's been great how everyone has given me another chance. That goes to Tennis Australia to all the coaches and everybody that works there and the crowd obviously. I hope the people understand. That's all I can do.
 But, yeah, I've done some things that I'm not proud of. I cannot change that. I said that to everyone. I can just look forward from here, look into the future, and try to really work on things and work on our relationship. 

 Q. Do you feel as if the country has forgiven you?
 JELENA DOKIC: It feels like it when I'm out there, because the support a tremendous. You know, it's just almost -- to me, it's a little bit too much and too loud at times. It's amazing that so many people are there. Even when I go on change of ends to sit down, people are screaming behind my back. It's really absolutely amazing. 
 But I was so young. I wish I could change that, but I can't. I feel like things have kind of started to go in the right way. Hopefully we can keep it going.

 Q. You talk about looking forward to the rest of the year. You're in the last 16 here. When can you start to dream anything is possible next week?
 JELENA DOKIC: Like I said, I don't feel like I cannot be at my best. No practice can replace matches and tournaments. If I'm doing this well now, I mean, you can always expect to have a bad couple of months through the year. It's normal. 
 I think playing like this I'm showing I can play with those girls. So, yeah. I mean, like I said, my goal is still top 50. I cannot go above that and say now I want to be top 10. I still have a lot of work to do. But considering that I think I'm not even at my 50%, 60%. I still think I have a long way to go with my fitness and even my game, my returns, my serve. Hopefully by the looks of it I can get even better. I'll just keep on working on that.

 Q. For the rest of this week though, do you let yourself dream you can go all the way?
 JELENA DOKIC: My dream came true after the second round, really, to get a top 20 win at a Grand Slam. But to do what I did tonight is great. Really absolutely no pressure. I mean, the same was said for today. 
 So, yeah, even if I lose it's nothing. I'm not supposed to really win. Even any point that I win in a match is a bonus for me. I can just try to play well. 

 Q. Just give us a slight insight into - your coach and your boyfriend were going delirious at the end - as to how that started and how you hope it will carry on in the future. 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, hopefully continue. We work... 

 Q. How did you actually get together with your coach? 
 JELENA DOKIC: It's been a long time. We've known each other for six years. It's not something that started two months ago. Yeah, hopefully we can keep it going. They're getting more and more emotional. Have to get that under control. More emotional than me. 
 But I understand. Yeah, it's good. It's a good atmosphere altogether. I think we work well. We're both very explosive, so sometimes we're really at each other. It's good. It's positive.

 Q. You seem more and more calm as the rounds go on. Is there reason for that, or just getting used to what's going on around you?
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, on the court I'm also the same. I think with all the events that happened the last three, four years I somehow feel so strong mentally. I'm there every point. I don't think I played even one bad game. I try not to. I give hardly any points away free. 
 I'm really strong mentally. I always was pretty good. I never lost it on the court. Maybe I've just gotten better with all the things that have gone on. 
 Even on the court I'm calm. Even if I get nervous I really control it well. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT