AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2009
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DOKIC/A. Chakvetadze
  6-4, 6-7, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.

 Q. You must be very proud of that. 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, I am. Yeah, I just went into the match just wanting to see how I would go against a top 20 player. I was very nervous to be on center court again. It's been a long time. 
 Just really wanted to see where I was with my shots and fitness and movement. I started to play well. I think she had a slow start, but she started to play really well in that second set. I let her off that 5-3 game where I had 30-15 and did a few unforced errors and double faults. 
 But overall, I think the things went her way in the third set. She really had the momentum. It's amazing I was able to come out and pull it out.

 Q. Could you imagine six months getting a standing ovation on Rod Laver Arena?
 JELENA DOKIC: No, I could not. I said 2008 and 2009 are the years I'm going to try and come back and do something. I've put in a lot of hard work last year, especially the end of last year. 
 You know, I've just been really, really focused and really wanted it so bad. Things are going really well at the moment. I couldn't imagine a better start to the year. In Brisbane I said it was a good start. I lost to Amélie in two tight sets. I had her in both sets, and I could have won that match. 
 I just wasn't in that position for a long time, and I didn't know how to treat the situation and what to play. 
 You know, I was very proud of that match even. But, you know, to be in the third round of a Grand Slam, you know, players lose match fitness and their physical shape and their shots in six months away from the game, let alone the three years. To beat a top 20 player is amazing.

 Q. How much did that match you were talking about there help you in the tight situations?
 JELENA DOKIC: You know, like I said, she's the one that I think had the pressure on her. She was supposed to win today. She was the clear favorite, so that went kind of in my favor. But I think as the match went on, and as I was up, I was up the whole time until the tiebreak in the second set. 
 She kind of just went on with it. I really had to finish it off. She is a fighter. She always hangs in there. But this is a huge confidence boost for me. 
 You know, no matter what happens from here on, I'm really happy with such a good start to the year. I want to be top 50 by the end of the year, and I think if I continue playing like I have been playing, this should be achievable. 

 Q. What was the reason you went quite a few times to play in Italy? It was because you won Rome and you performed well there? Some psychological reason? 
 JELENA DOKIC: Well, I feel good in Italy. I played really well there. It was my first title, so there's no question about that. Clay is not my favorite surface, so I wanted to play on clay and really build my game a little.
 That surface doesn't suit me. You have to play long matches and points. I think that went in my favor. It was just comfortable. It felt like the most natural thing to do. It was in Europe, and that's where I was training at the time. I think that really helped me. 
 You have some wins and you have some losses, but you really have to grind it out. It's tough no matter what people think. The ITF circuit is -- you know, we're all trying to win out there. 

 Q. Are you getting used to using your emotions and using the crowd and using the way you're feeling? 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, I came back I think two or three years ago to Australia, and obviously the crowd, I didn't expect them to be on my side and to understand what happened seven years ago. You know, each year it's gotten better and better. 
 But, you know, I will regret the decision that I made. I can say that I made it under the influence of my dad, but I will regret leaving for the rest of my life. It will always be the mistake that I made. 
 But, you know, it's really amazing. The crowd has just gotten better and better every year in Brisbane already. 
 But I think tonight was an amazing experience. It's been the best that I've ever had. I don't expect everybody to understand, of course. But, look, I'm trying my best. I'm fighting and playing for this country. You know, I'm proud to play for this country again. 
 So, you know, I think by the reaction tonight people have really -- things have swung my way, and I'm really happy about that. I was really glad to make the decision three years ago to come back. 

 Q. Does it play on your mind? Do you wonder what if you hadn't had those years in the wilderness?
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, it always does. But, look, I cannot go back and change things. What's done is done. I can only look forward. I think we all can. Hopefully the crowd can do that as well.

 Q. Can you talk about the role that your boyfriend and his brother have played in your career?
 JELENA DOKIC: Like I said the other day, it's been really tough to deal with some personal issues. My boyfriend has always been there for me. It's actually our five and a half years anniversary today. We always give each other something, and this is my present to him today. 
 Yeah, he's played a huge part in everything. When you have emotional breakdowns and everything I had to deal with, you really get weak mentally. It's not easy to come back and be strong and able to compete and play. It's really tough. So I really had to work on and build that. 
 You go crazy basically, and you react the way you shouldn't. He's dealt with all that and stuck by my side, so...

 Q. Do you still dream of maybe winning a Grand Slam? Getting back to the top 10?
 JELENA DOKIC: I think that's a little bit too much to ask right now. Like I said, players after six months out of the game really struggle coming back. It takes a long time. I actually think I react well and I improve quickly and my confidence goes up quickly, which plays a huge part in my game. 
 Of course I don't expect to win here, not this year. After what I've been through, like I said, my goal is to be in the top 20 by the end of my career. If I do that, I'll be satisfied. 
 You know, I will try as hard as I can to even do better if it's possible. We'll see how I go. It's a good start. It's a great start to have third week of the year and have a top 20 win in a Grand Slam. Hopefully I can keep it going. 

 Q. Your next opponent will be Wozniacki. What do you know about her, and how do you see your chances?
 JELENA DOKIC: I watched a little bit. I don't know her that well. I don't know a lot of the players that have come up. I haven't watched tennis that much in the last couple years. Of course it will be a tough match. 
 After today and getting these two wins here, I really don't care what happens in the next match. I really want to put a good performance in. Again, she's a favorite. She'll be a tougher match. She has all the pressure on her. 

 Q. Did you read anything in these days that you would have not liked to read? 
 JELENA DOKIC: I don't read the papers that much, honestly. You know, you always expect to get positive press and negative, and it's something that comes with this line of work. It's normal. 
 But, yeah, like I said, I just try to do my best on the court and, yeah, I will try not to read the papers too much.

 Q. How is your injury, and is it going to affect your next round?
 JELENA DOKIC: It's been here for a while. I'm trying to treat it and keep it as good as possible, but I pulled up well after my first match. Wasn't sore at all. We'll see how I go tomorrow. 
 It's something that's not so serious. It's something that I just have to keep an eye on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT