WIMBLEDON
June 26, 2003
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Well, that was good. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, not bad (smiling).  No, I think I played well.  I was consistent.  I was playing my game.  I was attacking.  I didn't make many errors.  I just kept the ball in, but aggressive, which was good. 
 
Q.  An improvement from the opening match, obviously, but by how much?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I don't think it was  -- I mean, it was an improvement, but I think I played well in the first match.  I just had a very difficult opponent.  She served well, she hit just as hard.  So I don't think  -- you know, I still think I played a very good first match.  This one was better.  But, you know, in both of them I played well. 
 
Q.  So you're happy with the way things are coming?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, I'm happy with the way it's going.  You know, I've improved every match that has gone by.  I've played well, so I'm happy, yeah. 
 
Q.  Can you explain how you feel having arrested that kind of slump you were in? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I mean, it happened, and I didn't play well for half a year.  I mean, I knew hopefully it would get to a stop somewhere.  I mean, I just had to keep on practicing and playing, which is what I've done.  You know, it happens.  I mean, I've played since  -- since I've got on the tour, I've just kept going up.  I mean, I just got  -- I mean, into a slump and to a stage where I was just, you know, mentally and physically feeling a little bit tired.  I was losing some very close matches.  It happens.  But, you know, I seem to be coming out of it a little bit.  
 
Q.  It's weird for us because we have a lot of British girls at Wimbledon, and they don't do so well.  There doesn't appear to be as many opportunities for girls in eastern Europe, and they seem to be competent players. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I think the European players are much more hungry, and I think  -- I mean, I don't know how the system works here.  I'm not sure.  But, you know, Europe has always been like this.  I mean, I come from a similar kind of thing.  I mean, I didn't have anything when I was growing up.  I was not spoiled.  I had nothing.  And I worked for it.  You know, I was very hungry to make it.  That was the only thing on my mind.  That's what I was pushing for.  I think all the top players that have come have been from Europe and from families like that.  I mean, maybe they're just not hungry enough.  Maybe they're just not pushed enough.  I don't know how the system is, whether they train properly, what is done, what they do.  You know, I think the players that have less opportunities are usually the ones that get through because they're so hungry. 
 
Q.  Does it surprise you, there's never really been anyone that's come through? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I think Elena Baltacha is a very good player.  She played very well against me.  She has a big game.  I mean, I don't know how her health problems are.  Hopefully she'll be well.  I wish her all the luck. She's a good player.  I think they just have to keep on working at it, and see what they're doing wrong, try to figure something out.  I mean, you have to change something when no one gets past the first round, and there's not even a lot of girls playing.  
 
Q.  The young Russian, Sharapova, is playing.  Have you played her?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No. 
 
Q.  How are the other girls reacting to her?  She makes some noises on the court. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I don't think anyone's  -- I mean, she just got on the tour.  I don't think she's playing that many tournaments.  I mean, we haven't seen that much of her.  I haven't played her either.  We'll just have to wait and see.  I think this is maybe her second Grand Slam only, only her first main draw.  We have to wait and see.  I haven't played her myself.  We'll see if she wins.  It will be interesting to see how she plays.  I'm looking forward to that match.  
 
Q.  Can you tell us what you think her strengths are? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I don't know.  I haven't watched her.  I mean, I think she hits the ball well.  I think until you actually watch her properly or play her, you have to see what she does.  I don't know her that well.  I mean, she's only been out for a few months.  I haven't seen her play, so I don't know.  
 
Q.  It's been hinted that you are thinking of changing team and that you might play again for Australia the next Olympics.  Can you comment on that?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  What?  
 
Q.  It's been hinted by the media that you're thinking about playing for Australia again.  Are you thinking about it?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No.  I mean, it's something  -- Olympics are a longway away.  It's two weeks before the US Open next year.  First of all, it might not be a good idea to go to Europe and play that, come back for a Grand Slam.  I will see.  I mean, I will think about that.  I definitely didn't think who I'm going to play for.  I haven't talked about that.  I haven't made any comments about that.  
 
Q.  You're not training with the Serbian, Montenegrin team, any Olympic team?  You're not part of the Yugoslavian Olympic setup?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I mean, I'm not playing the Olympics right now.  I play for my country, and that's all.  I don't have to train with any team, neither do I have to make up my mind who I want to play for until I want to play and if I want to play.  This is an individual sport.  It has nothing to do with teams or countries.  I play for who I play.  I'm out there playing by myself.  I don't think it really matters which country you play for, as long as you play yourself.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT