AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2012
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. DOKIC/A. Chakvetadze
  6‑2, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Fantastic win.   You must be thrilled. 
JELENA DOKIC:   Yeah, it's a good win.   It was difficult conditions out there.   It was very windy.   Yeah, I think it was worse than yesterday.   I was hoping it would be better. 
Yeah, I played a solid match.   I did what I had to do.   Sometimes it's not pretty in these conditions.   But, yeah, I did everything right. 

Q.   Significantly easier than the other time you met her.   Did it surprise you?
JELENA DOKIC:   A little bit.   But, you know, she's been also a little bit sick and I don't think she's played for six months, even though she had a pretty good week last week. 
You can never count her out because she's a competitor, you know.   She's difficult to play. 
But also the conditions were really, really different to our last match. 

Q.   Have you set yourself any targets for this year?
JELENA DOKIC:   Uhm, first of all just to be healthy.   I want to, you know, hopefully have a full year with no injuries.   And I think if I can do that, I think it will be a good year.   So that's the most important thing at the moment. 
But, yeah, if all goes well, hopefully top 20. 

Q.   You lost heavily in Sydney, but seem to have turned those things around pretty quickly. 
JELENA DOKIC:   Yeah.   I don't think it was so much a heavy loss as really the nerves.   So that was disappointing, because it really wasn't a match that I was out of.   If I played well, you get killed, then it's another story. 
But, yeah, I played pretty badly and wasn't able to control my nerves.   So, yeah, we've been working very hard on that, trying for that not to happen again. 

Q.   You looked so in control of those nerves today. 
JELENA DOKIC:   Yeah, because I've been practicing really, really good, and also playing points in practice really good, just focusing going out on the match court just like I am in practice.   You have to block everything else out and just compete, try not to get nervous and tight.   Just the nerves take over basically the concept of what you're trying to do. 
Yeah, we've been doing a lot of talking off the court and a lot of preparations.   Not just for here, just in general for that not to happen. 

Q.   What has Louise been bringing to the table?
JELENA DOKIC:   It's been fantastic actually.   It's something that I never really had.   She's so positive.   She has such good energy.   Even when things are not going well, practice is not going well, she finds always something that's positive out of the whole situation.   It's been fantastic. 
But we also work a lot of things on my game.   We've worked a lot on my serve, preparation for my serve, my second serve, to get more kick, more air, more clearance over the net.   I think that's been going well. 
Also physically, we really focused on getting physically fit.   Yeah, she's doing everything.   She's really done so much for me.   I've enjoyed working with her so much.   It only started as a part‑time thing last year, and now we're on a more full‑time basis.   Last two months we've been together working non‑stop and it's been great. 

Q.   You mentioned staying positive.   Is that something you've got better at, in life and even in matches?
JELENA DOKIC:   Yes, I think I have.   I think you have to, to be honest with you, just chill a little bit.   (Laughing.)   Not just me, but I think in general.   You know, things come a lot easier when you do that. 
That's also been something that I've been working with Louise on.   You always have bad days.   It's going to happen.   You can't play well 365 days a year.   That's normal.   Sometimes you have to win ugly, but sometimes you're also going to lose matches. 
You just have to deal with those the best you can.   Just be positive, get over it as soon as you can, and get out on the practice court the next day.

Q.   You sound like you're in a good place. 
JELENA DOKIC:   Yeah, I am.   I think things are going well.   I think I'm playing well.   Sometimes you might even have losses, but you have to look at the bigger picture. 
Also here, at the end of the tournament, there's only one winner.   There's 128 of us.   It's not all bad if you lose.   You got to look at it as the whole year. 
As long as you're improving what you're doing, every day you're putting in the hard work, it's going to pay off. 

Q.   Is it nice to fly under the radar? 
JELENA DOKIC:   Yeah, it is.   But I still go out there and the court is full and it's loud.   You come back to reality that, again, there's a lot of people.   They want you to perform well. 
Yeah, but I think usually I deal with that pretty well.   Last week was an exception.   But usually I like those situations.   I like, you know, the full courts and the crowd.   I try to use it to my advantage.

Q.   You spoke briefly on the conditions.   Was it a combination of heat and wind?
JELENA DOKIC:   The heat was fine.   The wind was really swirling around and it was difficult to play.   I think she had a lot of trouble. 
I think I played smart.   Sometimes when I was in trouble, didn't feel good with the wind, I just went through the middle, tried to keep a lot of clearance over the net, not try to go for too much. 
Yeah, I think I played a smart match. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT