TELECOM ITALIA MASTERS
May 12, 2003
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Would you say that you're more distracted than usual now and that might account for some of your tennis? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I'm not distracted at all.  No, I think I'm pretty calm.  I think I just, you know, I'm just having not such a good year like I had the last few years.  That's all. 
 
Q.  Do you think today that you lost this match or she won this match?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I lost the match.  
 
Q.  Can you develop this subject and tell us more, why did you think you lost?  What do you make as a mistake? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  She didn't do very much.  Honest, I don't think she's ever played worse against me.  I mean, we've played like 15 times.  I think this is the worst she's played.  I think this is the worst that I've played, too.  I mean, I had chances, but I was playing up and down.  I would play two good games, three bad games, and it would just go on and on.  I was basically playing against myself, not against her.  And I don't think she did two or three winners in the whole match.  It was just my errors, basically.  
 
Q.  Do you find any reason for that  - I mean, because you didn't practice enough, you've been late? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, it's been like this the whole year.  I've had some close matches, but I've lost.  You know, I'm just not having a good few months, I guess.  And, you know, I'm just struggling against myself a little bit and that's why I'm losing matches.  
 
Q.  Are you living in the US now? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, in Monaco.  
 
Q.  Your coach is...
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Heinz Gunthardt. 
 
Q.  Are you less confident now than you used to be, do you think?  Is that the reason? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Little bit.  I mean, I'm not having a great year, I've had some losses, so my confidence is a little bit down.  But, you know, I just have to continue working.  I mean, it's normal.  You cannot play 10 years of your career well every year.  So I think eventually it had to come and, you know, we'll see.  I mean, hopefully I'll get out of it quick.  
 
Q.  Are the problems connected to your Australian period and then ...
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, they are not connected to anything.  Like I answered already, there's no, you know  -- I don't put my things that are off the court into my tennis.  I never did.  And, you know, I don't think  -- I mean, I don't think things off the court, whether you have problems or not, you know, distractions, I mean, this has never gone on to my tennis and reflected in my tennis.  
 
Q.  What is Heinz doing, if anything, to your game since you started to work with him?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  He's working on everything.  You know, I have good practices.  I do all the things that  -- you know, he's changed some things.  But I can't seem to get it together in matches.  I think mentally I'm not like I was before.  And then it's hard to do things that you do in practice.  You know, I think I'm a better player than I was before, but it's not exactly showing on the court so...  
 
Q.  What's changed for you mentally that's making you not the same player you were a year or two ago? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I don't think that anything's changed.  Like I said, I think it's normal that you have a bad maybe even a whole year.  I mean, we've seen that.  Players have lapses, you go up and down.  I mean, I don't think it's such a big deal.  I've had  -- I've gone up to No. 4 in the world, but in two years.  So, I mean, if I have a bad few months or a year, you know, I'm not gonna  -- you know, I'm not gonna cry about it all day and all night.  It's something that happens.  And, you know, the quicker I get out of it, the better, you know?  It's just not easy to play sometimes.  I mean, it's not always that you're gonna be in the best form and peaking every year.  I've played a lot of tennis the last few years, so I think eventually it gets to you a little bit. 
 
Q.  What are you going to do from now to Paris, just practicing or...? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Practice, go shopping, you know.  That's all.  Maybe have some days off before.  Try just not to worry about things too much and, you know...  Not much.  
 
Q.  What has been the major difference between being coached by someone who is also your father and someone else who has been a former champion, a former coach of Steffi Graf? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I think it's different when you're getting coached by someone who's in your family, first of all.  I think it's a completely different relationship.  You know that person in different ways, and he's there all the time and always has been.  You know, this is just  -- and to be coached by someone else is different, you know.  You don't know that person so well at the beginning, then you get to know them, how they work.  I think Heinz does different things, you know... 
 
Q.  Like what?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I mean, he's played.  He does everything different.  His practices are intense, you can hit with him  - you know, everything.  And he makes me work a lot and asks for a lot, which is good.  He wants discipline.  He's like this, so .... But it's been interesting to see, you know, just how everything works, because I've had the same for my whole career.  So now is a little bit different.  I've had to get used to some things.  Just a different person now doing everything.  
 
Q.  Do you think by skipping Australia these last few years that maybe you've been trying to cram all of your season into the rest of the year, and maybe that actually playing Australia and then calmly going back might help your game? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Maybe.  You know, then I would have less time off at the end of the year, and it's a long trip to go to Australia and then come back.  So, you know, maybe it's something  -- it just depends.  It's up to the individual.  I've played Australia for the few years before that and, you know, I found it was a lot of traveling to go there, come back.  And it was not enough time in the end of the year to get ready, because I play quite a few tournaments during the year anyway.  So you need to have the extra month off at the beginning, works well.  But it's something I will look at eventually.  
 
Q.  Would you and Heinz talk about that and maybe you'd accept his suggestion that possibly it might be a good idea?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, we'll talk about it when it gets to that.  We'll see.  I think he's trying to work on my schedule and make it a little bit better.  It was a little bit different this year because I'm not doing that great so I'm not playing that many matches, so I can kind of keep on playing every week.  I mean, if you're out by Monday, you don't have very much to do until the next tournament, so I can pretty much play. But I think he wanted to look at my schedule and change a lot of things also.  
 
Q.  Of course your priorities, now that you are two years older than when you won here in Rome, they have changed or they are always the same?  You like always the same kind of things since when you were 19 or...? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I think you grow up and you mature a little bit.  I mean, tennis is something that, obviously, I do every day and every week in the year.  You know, that has not changed.  But other than that, I mean, I live the same life pretty much, you know.  I like the same things.  I think I've just gotten older and more mature, and just a big difference from two years ago.  I think I was a kid here two years ago, and, yeah,  now I think I'm just more mature. 
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT