US OPEN
August 28, 2002
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How were you feeling today?  You were injured, not able to play the Pilot Pen.  Was that a factor today?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No.  It wasn't a factor the first day and it wasn't a factor today, no, not at all.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about your serve.  She had a lot of looks at serves, a lot of breakpoint chances. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, she played well.  Just in general, I didn't play well, didn't move so well.  My serve wasn't too bad.  I just had trouble staying in points because I made too many errors.  You know, you cannot do that.  It just wasn't good enough.  You know, even when I had chances, I didn't take them.  You know, I didn't play the points smart.  I kept on playing everything to her, and she was dictating. 
 
Q.  When you're not on your game and you can feel that early, how hard is it to convince yourself to stay in? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  It's hard.  But she was playing well, so I couldn't even change anything because, you know, she was  -- everything I hit, she was hitting it back.  She was on.  She was serving quite well, too.  There was not much I could do.  You know, like I said, even when I had chances, I couldn't win the right points at the right time. 
 
Q.  You've played a lot of tournaments this year.  Does that take a toll?  Are you tired at this point? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I don't think so.  I felt fine.  I took the week off last week.  No, I don't think that's a factor.  I just had one of those days where nothing was right.  So it happened today. 
 
Q.  Where do you go from here?  Will you go home?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I don't know yet.  I still have doubles, so I don't know. 
 
Q.  There have been reports in the European press that you faxed a letter in support of Vojislav Seselj regarding the Serbian election.  Can you confirm if you did send that letter?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I did, and that's my personal choice, that's my decision.  You know, it's my private thing.  I have the right to do that. 
 
Q.  I'm just wondering if you could elaborate on your feelings on the issue. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Like I said, it's my personal choice.  It's something that I wanted to do.  There are a few reasons.  But, you know, that's the way I feel, and that's who I wanted to vote for. 
 
Q.  Will you be doing anything further?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No. 
 
Q.  When you had that great run at Wimbledon, you talked about hoping in the coming years to get some experience.  Is experience sometimes more difficult later on because you don't have  -- because you know too much also?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No.  I think experience has helped me a little bit.  You know, I had a lot of experience in different matches.  I played for a long time already, so I think in a way it's helped me mature more also the last few years.  I don't think it's a negative thing.  You know, I don't know.  I think it's helped me a lot.  
 
Q.  Would you say you've had an easy time?  A difficult time?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I've had difficult times, but I think it's only made me better.  You know, I've had a lot of everything.  I think that's helped me in a way. 
 
Q.  What kinds of things stand out to you as things you've been able to overcome?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I mean, there's a different experience every day.  There's nothing in particular.  Like I said, I've matured as a person the last few years.  
 
Q.  When you woke up this morning, did you feel like everything was firing on all cylinders or did you kind of feel like maybe today wasn't a great day to go play a match?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I wasn't  -- you know, like I say, it was one of those days where I wasn't hitting well.  I just wasn't a hundred percent with my shots.  I was missing a lot.  I wasn't moving well.  It was just a combination of everything that didn't go right. 
 
Q.  Before you stepped on the court, did you have any indication?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, no, no.  
 
Q.  Is your dad still your coach?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Was he able to see the match today?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No. 
 
Q.  You said the other day that you don't talk to him a lot about tennis.  Do you still talk to him before every match?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I talk to him  -- no, not before the match.  A day before a match.  I talk to him about when I have to play important matches.  I talk to him about that.  But, you know, I don't talk to him right before matches.  I talk to him, you know, a few days before.  
 
Q.  Have you talked to him since you lost today?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No. 
 
Q.  It seemed like you were rushing out there today.  Did you feel like you wanted to keep pushing, maybe if you kept going you could force her off the pace?  What was your reasoning for doing that?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I usually play like that.  Sometimes you think she might go off a little bit, but she didn't do that today.  She played I think a good match.  There was nothing I can do.  I didn't get any better as the match went on.  Sometimes it can turn around a little bit, but that wasn't the case today.  
 
Q.  In a certain sense, were you kind of anxious to maybe get it over with because you knew you weren't playing well?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I don't think so.  You know, I tried at the beginning of the second set also.  It was just impossible.  I couldn't break her serve.  Like I said, I just wasn't on.  There was nothing else I could do. 
 
Q.  What do you have to do to become more consistent, in general?  Is it mental or is it physical?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I've gotten more consistent the last few years.  I win matches that I'm supposed to win, otherwise I wouldn't be with my ranking where I am.  So I don't think it's a matter of consistency.  You know, sometimes you can play a player that just plays too good.  It doesn't mean that if I lost to her today, that that's a bad loss.  Again, I think she would have played much better than even some of the Top 15, 20 players would play.  I don't think it's a bad loss. 
 
Q.  In terms of in general trying to improve, are you trying to improve more mentally?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  More physically, more with my game, not so much mental.  
 
Q.  In general when you have a day like today when you don't feel like you're on, the shots aren't going, in the past you have been able to turn it around, how do you get back on track?  Is it your footwork, repetition?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I wasn't playing good enough to change it around.  Sometimes when you play good, you lose a first set, you can turn the match around.  That's what happened with her last time when I played her.  Even when I tried, my game wasn't on.  She didn't step back.  She kept on going for her shots and she was making everything.   Like I said, she didn't give me a chance to come back at all.  She played a better second set than she played in the first set.  
 
Q.  Who is your traveling support?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Mom. 
 
Q.  Since your father has backed off traveling with you as much, have you thought about working  -- is your mom helping you as a coach?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, she just travels with me.  I've learned to be a little bit more independent in the past.  I'm fine with the way it is right now.  I wouldn't change it right now.  
 
Q.  You say you're looking to be more independent in the past?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I am. 
 
Q.  You are?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yes. 
 
Q.  Is that just a function of getting older and growing up?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I've always been like that.  I was like that when I was younger.  I don't know.  I think I'm like that naturally.  I don't need too many people around me.  
 
Q.  Do you think it would help to have a coach who was able to travel with you?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I don't know.  I've been comfortable with my family, so I don't know if bringing anyone from the outside would really help.  I doubt it.  Like I said, I like it the way it is right now.  I don't think I will change.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT