US OPEN
August 26, 2002
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was that as easy as it looked?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, it was comfortable.  You know, it was much easier than last year's first round.  I played well.  I was never down in the match.  You know, it was quite quick.  
 
Q.  No effects on the hamstring?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, no, not at all.  
 
Q.  You were quoted in the New York Times as being reverential to the Williams sisters, saying sometimes when they're in the tournament, nobody else really has a chance. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I never said that.  I said when the Williams sisters are in the tournament, you think, well, it's not as easy.  I never said there's no chance to play against them.  I actually read that.  I was a little bit upset because that's not what I said.  You know, I did beat Venus.  You know, I'm definitely not going to be the one to say that, you know, they're impossible to beat.  And I did say how long it lasts, their power, their dominance, that's a question also.  I never said that.  I still think even though they're 1 and 2 right now, I think a lot of players still can beat them.  
 
Q.  Have you given any more thought to the question of the country that you will ultimately play for?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Play for what?  
 
Q.  There was some suggestion that you might move across to Britain. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I don't think so.  I think I've made up my mind who I'm playing for.  I never said I was going to play for someone else. 
 
Q.  A couple years ago, the incident with your father, was that the roughest you've had to endure as a pro?  Since then have you spoken to him about that? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, it was nothing that bothered me too much.  I never talked to my dad about that.  You know, it was something that I hardly even, you know, really think about.  I don't remember very much.  It's not in my mind at all.  
 
Q.  There was a story which went around the world three weeks ago about your dad telling a radio station that he wanted to move the family to London.  Has he changed his mind since?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  The decision hasn't been made.  Definitely not now, and not any time soon.  I haven't talked to him about that.  I'm in the middle of the season.  I'm definitely not going to think about that now.  It's not a priority.  I'm not even thinking and talking about that.  
 
Q.  Are you happy in Belgrade?  Is your life good?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, it's fine.  You know, I love going there.  I'm not there that much.  I'm not in one place that much at all.  I can't really say  -- I mean, I don't have anywhere that I really live, that I'm there for so long.  I'm maybe there only November and December.  But every time I've been there, it's been great.  
 
Q.  Is there any part of you that misses living in Australia? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I liked living there.  It was good.  The people were great.  I never had anything against that.  It's a little bit too far away.  But, you know, I had a very good time while I was there.  
 
Q.  Have you given any more thought to going back and playing the Australian Open next year?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I haven't thought about that, definitely not.  I don't think I will.  Again, it's not something I really think about a lot.  It's not a priority, but I don't think I'll be going back there.  
 
Q.  Ever? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I don't know what's going to happen in five years, but not right now, no.  
 
Q.  Why?  It's a Grand Slam. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  It is a Grand Slam, but I can do without that one.  You know, after everything that happened, that I had there, you know, I don't think it's worth going back and playing the Australian Open.  
 
Q.  With regards to your preparation for this tournament, do you talk to your dad every couple days?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I talk to him every day.  I'm just going a match at a time.  I've done well.  I had a good summer.  I played a lot of matches.  I was a little bit tired about a week ago.  The priority was just to be healthy and fit enough to play.  I'll just go a match at a time and see what happens.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT