WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2002
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Were you surprised to go out?  Were you surprised to lose today?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, a little bit.  You know, I was just not happy with the way I played because I could have played a lot better.  You know, I just didn't play well enough to win.  If I did, I think I would have won.  
 
Q.  The rain came at the wrong time for you, because you were just getting ahead in that second set? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, I think that made a difference.  Because I was in that second set.  I think I would have won it.  It would have been a whole different story in that third set.  The rain delay didn't help.  So I think that's where things turned around.  You know, after that, I lost my momentum.  I just, you know  -- I didn't play well enough.  
 
Q.  Will you tell us what happened?  There was quite a long delay.  Play started on the other courts. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I don't know.  They said it was still slippery, so... 
 
Q.  How far do you think Daniela might be able to go here this year?  Is she good enough to go any further against Serena maybe?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I don't know.  Depending how Serena plays.  You know, I don't know.  Just depends.  I think  -- I mean, a lot depends on how Serena plays.  I think if she plays well enough, it will be hard to beat her.  I think Serena's going into the match as a favorite.  You'd have to favor her.  It all depends. 
 
Q.  When you say, "If she plays well enough," you're referring to Serena?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yes. 
 
Q.  What was it you found hard to deal with against Daniela?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Not to deal with.  I think it was pretty much everything I did.  I didn't move as well and I just made too many errors.  I was really, really tight.  I didn't feel good.  That's where I lost the match.  It wasn't so much that I played well, and she was just too good, it was not like that. 
 
Q.  In the first set you made a lot of errors. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Even the first set after I came back after the rain, I couldn't get into rallies.  I pretty much gave a lot of points away.  
 
Q.  What happens now?  Will you stay in London?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I don't know.  I have no idea.  I don't know yet.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT