PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 10, 2002
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Were you experiencing problems with your leg out there today?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah.  I hurt my other leg yesterday, and I was  -- I wasn't even 50%.  You know, I wanted to try, you know, see how it went.  You know, as I went further into the match, it got worse.  But, you know, I'm not disappointed.  I tried my best.  You know, it's just one of those things that I didn't have control over. 

Q.  You said you wanted to try.  Was there any thought about not playing the match?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, you know, I had trouble practicing this morning.  You know, it was really hurting.  But it got a little bit better.  I thought, if I get out there, it gets warm, it might feel better.  It didn't, it made it worse.  You know, you never know how it is until you start playing.  So, you know, but it definitely wasn't good enough to, you know, be able to compete. 

Q.  You said you hurt the other leg.  This is not the leg?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah.

Q.  What's the problem?

JELENA DOKIC:  I don't know.  We don't know yet. 

Q.  Is it physically painful?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, it is.  It's really uncomfortable.  You know, I'm really disappointed, you know, now it's the other leg.  You know, I really never had any injuries.  But hopefully it will get better.

Q.  Is this something that happened in your last match?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, it happened yesterday in the third set, just like the other leg.  I did feel it.  It gradually got worse as I came off the court.  It's just been getting worse and worse since yesterday. 

Q.  Was it a situation that you were possibly favoring the injured leg, hurt the other one?

JELENA DOKIC:  No, I don't think so, because the other leg feels fine.  You know, it's a hundred percent, and I felt really good on it.  I think it's just, you know, another thing that just happened.  You know, I wasn't compensating to try and save my other leg - that definitely wasn't it.  You know, I think it was just the match yesterday.

Q.  Was this a muscle pull or turned ankle?

JELENA DOKIC:  Strain, muscle strain.

Q.  Lower leg?  Calf? 

JELENA DOKIC:  Quad.

Q.  Is it tough going back-to-back matches in a tournament like this on this kind of surface for you?

JELENA DOKIC:  You know, if you feel good and you're not injured, I don't think so.  But when you're injured, it makes a big difference.  I think you get used to playing back-to-back at some of the tournaments.  You know, I don't think that's a problem for me.  But I think when you're injured, you know, it makes a big difference.

Q.  Have you seen a doctor or the trainer or anybody?

JELENA DOKIC:  No.

Q.  Are you scheduled to go to Miami, I assume?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yes.

Q.  Is that somewhat in question until you find out what happens?

JELENA DOKIC:  It could be.  I don't know.  Hopefully not.  It shouldn't be because I still have some time.  You know, it's just one of those things that I really now have to look after.  You know, I really don't want it to ruin any more tournaments and the rest of the year.  It's just real disappointing that it's happened so early in the year.  There's still so much to play.  I just have to be really careful


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT