PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 9, 2002
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Tough first set, but then you got yourself back into it.  Do you want to talk about it?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, I didn't play that well in the first set.  I didn't move that well either.  It was a little bit difficult to get used to the conditions and the court.  It's a little bit slower.  And I haven't played a match outdoors for like six months.  And she's tough to play against for a first round.  You know, I was happy that I got my rhythm back in the second set, and then the third.  You know, I was a little bit too defensive in the first set. 
 
Q.  It's hard to get a rhythm against her because she's pretty much taking big swings at the ball?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  It is.  She hit some unbelievable returns off the backhand.  You know, when you're not playing so well, that's tough.  You know, she's so tall.  Her serve is a little bit strange also.  She's one of those players that doesn't give you very much rhythm.  But I was happy the way I turned it around. 
 
Q.  What's been going on with you physically in your last two tournaments?  You retired in both, right?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah.  I tore my adductor in Paris, and I didn't play the final.  Then I went to Antwerp, tried to play, but I wasn't physically good to play.  Then I had to have a few weeks off.  That's about it.  
 
Q.  And what about today?  Are you a hundred percent?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I feel good, yeah.  It's about 95.  I'm not going to say it's a hundred.  First match back is always a little bit tough.  I don't have that much confidence with my leg right now.  But it was really good.  I moved well.  You know, I was happy with it.  
 
Q.  You had a lot of time off in the off-season, probably the most you ever had.  How is that working out for you?  Did you like being off that much?  Were you practicing a lot or working out?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I had a few months off.  I didn't do anything because I played a lot last year.  I just had a long break, which I think I needed, because the year is so long.  Then I started to train again in January.  But, you know, it was something I needed.  I felt really good after it.  
 
Q.  So you actually took off about eight weeks?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Didn't pick up a racquet?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No. 
 
Q.  Were you doing anything in the gym?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, nothing.  
 
Q.  Really?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  Did you find when you got back on court that  --?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  It wasn't too tough actually.  I recover quickly, though.  Physically it took me about a week or two to come back.  You know, it was really good. 
 
Q.  Did you find yourself missing tennis at all?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I did, you know.  I love to play.  I missed competing and playing matches.  It's tough to come back, though, after such a long break.  I was glad I had the break, but then I was glad to come back again. 
 
Q.  You said you needed that time off.  Did you feel mentally burned out after last year?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  No, I wouldn't say I was burned out, but I think I would have been if I didn't take the break, I think physically and mentally.  I think I needed it before it happened.  You can't go on playing months and months and months without having any break.  I think it's impossible.  
 
Q.  Part of that was your choice, too?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  You played from the summer through the fall, almost every week. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I did.  You know, I played so well after US Open, I played a lot.  I thought  -- you know, I was doing well.  It felt good to play that much.  Then I took the break.  I think it evened out a little bit. 
 
Q.  During those couple months off when you weren't playing, could you imagine not being a tennis player any more and doing something else?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I did.  I almost thought I wasn't a tennis player any more (smiling).  I didn't do anything.  It was so weird not to have a racquet in my hand.  On the other hand, felt really good.  I did so many other things.  You know, I didn't think about tennis at all.  That's why I was glad to come back again. 
 
Q.  What other things were you doing?  Sports?  Reading?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I went to the mountains, I went skiing, I was on the beach after that.  You know, I did everything - everything I wouldn't do when I play and when I'm on the tour.  
 
Q.  So then you come back out in February.  What are you thinking about, things you need to do this year, a couple of your goals?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I think my goal is to try and play as well as  -- as well as I did last year, because I had a very good year last year.  You know, it's going to be very tough to stay where I got to, Top 10.  My goal is to get into the Top  5.  But I think you see so many players getting to the Top 10 or Top  5 and then dropping back really quickly.  My goal is not to let that happen.  You know, I had a good start to the year.  I beat Monica, who I haven't beaten in so many times we've played.  But I think my goal is just to play well and keep improving on some of the things that I need to work on. 
 
Q.  What is it going to take to get up to that level? 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I think my game just needs to be consistent.  I need to work on my serve a little bit.  I think it's gotten a little bit better.  But other than that, I think I've gotten a lot stronger physically and mentally last year.  I think that was an important step for me last year.  That's what I was missing the few years before that.  I think I'm a lot more mature now than when I came on the tour at 14.  I think that makes a big difference. 
 
Q.  How much does it take to get used to the travel schedule?  You played so much last year. 
 
JELENA DOKIC:  I think I've gotten used to it a little bit.  We have such a long schedule.  There's not really that much time that you can take off.  There's not a big difference in the rankings either, so you've got to try and play as much as you can but have a break also.  You've just got to  -- I've tried to work on my schedule really hard to try to see where I can have some time off and where I really need to play. 
 
Q.  How much better now do you understand on-court strategy than, say, a couple years ago?
 
JELENA DOKIC:  Oh, I think I'm a lot better.  You know, like I said, mentally and physically, I've had a big improvement last year.  I think that's really helped my game to get from, you know, Top 30 to Top 10.  It makes a huge difference.  I think, you know, I have a lot more experience now.  I'm just doing things a lot more professionally on court now.  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT