PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 23, 2001
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  (Inaudible). 

JELENA DOKIC:  No, never is.  You know, I think every time we play it's a similar story.  And it was just the key points  she played better - from 4-3 in the first to go 6-4 up, those three games were really long.  And I had a lot of game points, a lot of break points.  And I think that's what decided the match also. You know, other than that, you know, our games are very similar.  And I think she's just a little bit more -- physically a little bit more stronger, and mentally also.  And, you know, she's been there before.  And, you know, I think just experience.  And the older I get, I think the more of a chance I will have, you know, to beat her. 


Q.  Is that basically the reason that the majority of your losses this year have come to players in the Top 10?  Is it the experience factor?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, pretty much.  I lost to Lindsay and Jennifer and Venus and Serena.  And I think, you know, they're the players I've been losing to mainly.  Other than that, I've been pretty happy with the way I've played. And, you know, I think I just, you know  -- my game's fine the way it is.  I think there are a few things to work on.  But I think, you know, it's very hard to play the power players.  I mean, I'm not as powerful as they are.  I think also maturity comes with that.  And, you know, hopefully, you know, in a year or two I'll have, I think, a little bit more of a chance. 


Q.  Do you feel her serve was pretty much the deciding factor in the second set? 

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, she did serve very well.  Even some of her second serves were pretty strong.  Every time I looked, the first serve was like 110 miles.  And not too many people serve like that.  So she served pretty well, and that did help her a little bit. And I think her game also, you know, I think she played better than she did yesterday. 


Q.  Both you and Jennifer had some problems with a point or two in the match with the line judge and referee.  Is that a little more than normal?

JELENA DOKIC:  Maybe a little bit.  I mean, it happened.  I had it the other night also.  And, you know, when someone hits the ball so hard, it's hard to, you know, see.  But, you know, she might think that she didn't get a few good calls, and I feel the same way.  And you just got to, you know, play by that. 


Q.  How do you rate the referees? 

JELENA DOKIC:  How do I rate them? 


Q.  High or low? 

JELENA DOKIC:  Well, I mean, it really doesn't matter.  I think it differs from tournament to tournament.  I think especially at the Grand Slams, you know, I haven't had too many problems. 


Q.  Every two or three years it seems like there's a new wave of players that come up and start to make their mark on the game.  A few years ago it was Martina Hingis and Lindsay.  Now it's you and Kim Clijsters and Justine Henin.  Can you talk about your role in this?  You're in that group, too, of the new, young, I guess next generation of players that are coming up.

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, there are like three or four young ones that are in the Top 10 right now.  And, you know, I'm there also.  And, you know, I think this is probably what you'll see for the next ten years.  And I think the tennis, you know, after, you know, the Capriati and the Lindsay  - and after Lindsay, you know, goes, I think you're gonna have four or five really good players that will be up there to replace them.  And I think they're up there right now and giving them a hard time.  And, you know, I think those four or five players are probably the ones that are going to be, you know, in the future the players to look out for. 


Q.  What will it take for you to get in to the Top 10?

JELENA DOKIC:  I mean, I'm 12 or 13 now.  I think it's not a huge difference.  It's, you know, just  I have to work on a few things, physically.  I -- get a little bit stronger also.  And, you know, I think I've improved that a little bit and I think just with experience.   You know, I had a good week, I've had a few good weeks after Wimbledon also and I've played well this year consistent.  Probably the most consistent year that I've had on the tour.  So I think, you know, another couple of months to work on some things and, you know, just play a few more matches against the top players, and I think, you know, next year should be, I think, the one that will be the big year for me. 


Q.  Do you look at what Capriati did as far as getting into better physical shape?  Do you draw from that?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, she's worked very hard.  I mean, I know.  I worked with her in Saddle Brook.  And, you know, she's really gotten into shape. And she's really worked, you know  -- she's just moving so much better and it's just so hard to play against her.  She's getting a lot of balls back.  And she's just so powerful right now.  And, you know, it's working for her, and, you know, she's done a good job. 


Q.  She made a lot of unforced errors in the match.  Did you feel that this may have been a chance for you to  --?

JELENA DOKIC:  Maybe, but I still think it was very tough.  She still hit the ball very hard.  And I think she made the errors on the backhand, because I was trying to keep it there.  I didn't give her too many forehands.  She hit five or six forehands in the whole match.  She never does that.  Usually every second ball she hits is a forehand, because I think a lot of players play there and it's a strength. So I tried to keep it to her backhand and it worked.  But, you know, when I was in the points I wasn't struggling.  I was winning the points and I was  -- I could rally with her.  You know, it was just some other things that decided the match. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT