DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS WOMEN
February 15, 2011
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 F. PENNETTA/J. Dokic
  6-2, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. Seemed to be a lot of errors out there today. Are you frustrated with your performance?  
 JELENA DOKIC: No, not frustrated. It was very hard to get used to conditions. I only arrived from Paris two days ago and I got sick, so I only hit once since I arrived.  
 Yeah, it is just tough to get used to conditions, the wind, the sun, and the different court.   
 That's all.   
  
  Q. What did you think of your opponent's performance?  
 JELENA DOKIC: I mean, she's solid. She gets a lot balls in, so it's always tough to play a player like that. You got to make her play a lot.   
 Yeah, she's 15 in the world, so obviously she's been playing well. And she's been playing well this year as well. Yeah.  
  
  Q. There were some good things in your game though, weren't there?  
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, I mean, I don't feel like I'm hitting the ball bad at all. Like I said, just very different conditions to what I played in last week.   
 Yeah, only just arrived here, so it's a bit tough to go from indoor to outdoor so quickly. Yeah, I tried to save my energy as much as I could because I got sick and just hit once, so it was tough.   
 It was completely different, you know, court and balls and everything. It was quite windy, so you always need a little bit of time to adjust, which I didn't have.  
 That's about it.   
  
  Q. Nine double faults. Is that a disappointment?  
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, it is a little bit. I served very well last week, so, again, it's not something that I'm going to, you know, really be frustrated with. So, again, you know, it's very difficult to get used to the sun and everything when you haven't played in it for a couple days.   
 So I'm not going to be too disappointed with this. Obviously I would have liked to play better, but I'm going to go on and go on to next week.  
  
  Q. Why did you go indoors in Paris instead of perhaps playing in Thailand?  
 JELENA DOKIC: I like Paris, so I wanted to play that event. In Thailand, I was also going to be in qualifying, so I thought I better play the bigger event. I think I made the right decision.   
 Maybe I could have played Memphis after Paris and gone over there to indoors and maybe stayed over there. But, you know, it's okay. It's just hard to do the schedule sometimes when you're in qualifying and this.   
 This is what I picked. It's okay. One bad week is not going to matter. I think I've won seven, eight matches already this year on tour. I think I've had a good start.  
 I'm just going to go on to next week and hopefully play better next week.   
  
  Q. You've had health and injury things in the last year or two. Do you feel 100% now?  
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, I do. I feel good. I haven't been injured for a while. I've been healthy, except now, this week. But that's just a cold.   
 So, yeah, I've been very good. I was able to play good last week for a number of the matches back to back every day.  
 Yeah, no injuries, no problems, which is good. You know, it's good to be able to play week in and week out and not have to pull out and have to worry about getting injured.  
  
  Q. Do you have a particular goal this year? Have you set yourself a target in terms ranking?  
 JELENA DOKIC: Well, I'm 90 this week, so I'm really happy with that because I don't have nothing to defend until July. I think that's very positive. Obviously top 50 is the first goal, and then go on from there.  
 But just to be able to play weeks like I had last week on a regular basis, yeah, and then I think the ranking will also obviously be much better. Yeah, one pulls the other, and I think the more good matches and performances that I can have every week, I think obviously the ranking will get better, too.   
  
  Q. Did last week make you think, I really live with some of the best players?  
 JELENA DOKIC: I mean, obviously I beat Safarova and Petrova. One is 25 and one is 20 in the world.   
 Yeah, it gave me a lot of confidence last week, but I still got to be able to put up performances like that every week. You can't just do it once a year. That's what I'm looking for now, is the consistency.  
  
  Q. Excuse me for asking this. I know you prefer not to answer this. Do you have any contact with your father?  
 JELENA DOKIC: No, I don't. I think the birds on the trees already know that. But anyway.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT