TMS - ROME
May 18, 2001
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Were you a little bit scared during the tiebreak?

JELENA DOKIC: She  -- I think I made some errors that I shouldn't have done, and I think I wanted to finish the match off quickly.  But, you know, she played a couple of good points, and I was lucky that I had a big lead, so I finished it off on the last one. 


Q.  I just came in, but have you been asked yet about your back problem?  What is it, and how much pain were you in?

JELENA DOKIC: I don't know what it is.  It started to bother me as soon as we started, so I was getting a little bit worried.  But I think I just spasmed up a little bit.  We'll see... It was getting worse, but hopefully it will get better. 


Q.  You don't see it as a problem to your continuing in the tournament?

JELENA DOKIC: I hope not.  I don't think so.  I think, you know, I've played a lot this week and I played really late last night so, you know, it's only been  -- it hasn't even been 12 hours since I stopped and I was back on court again.  So I don't see it as a problem.  I think it will just, you know, I just need to get some treatment, and it will hopefully be all right. 


Q.  When do you think you will come back again in Yugoslavia next time?

JELENA DOKIC: I don't know.  I haven't got  -- I've got a lot of tournaments to play right now and my schedule's very busy so not right now.  And, you know, the tennis season is, you know, very long, and I haven't decided yet. 


Q.  The probability is that you will play Conchita in the semifinals.  How do you rate her as a threat here and a clay court player in general?

JELENA DOKIC: I think on clay she's very dangerous, just as she is on a lot of the other surfaces.  But I think she has to win first, it will be a tough match for her.  And if she does get through, I played her a lot of times, we had a lot of tough matches.  And I think, you know, I'd like playing her again because, you know, I think I've got a chance to beat her.  I think I'm playing well in this tournament so far.  So, you know, I would really look forward to playing her. 


Q.  Do you know something about her opponent, Schiavone?

JELENA DOKIC: I played her at the US Open last year, third round, and obviously she's done well in this tournament.  She's beaten some, you know, good players.  And, you know, like I said, whoever gets through, either her or Conchita, I think they both play similarly on this surface.  You know, I really don't mind who gets through. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT