AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2001
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Jennifer, it looked like you had a lot of fun out there. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   Uh-huh. 

Q.  You seem to enjoy playing together.  You played this tournament last year.  Was that the first time you had?

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   Yeah. 

Q.  You played how many matches together since?

JELENA DOKIC: Three.  This is the fourth. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   Wimbledon.  Most of  -- I mean Jelena's been my most consistent doubles partner since really playing doubles.  I think we've done well together.  We made it at least to the fourth round, third or fourth round, so we have a good record and, you know, now that we've played with each other for a while, I think we're starting to know each other's game a little bit more so that makes it easier to play with somebody. 

Q.  You obviously see a bit of each other both on and off court. 

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, I think we play similar tournaments, and yeah.  Especially the big ones, we see each other a lot. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   Especially now that, well, we live kind of in the same place.  (Laughing.) So in Florida, so... We'll see each other a lot. 

Q.  Chris Lyons (phonetic) from A AP.  You've never won a title.  Do you think you have a good chance in the doubles here?

JELENA DOKIC: Well, it will be  tough.  There are a lot of really good teams in that half, but I don't think, you know, we look at it that way.  I think right now we just concentrate on getting a few matches together, and then, you know, hopefully get our rankings up and see how it goes.  You know, just improve on our singles and doubles games because doubles will help us in our singles as well. 

Q.  Jelena, just wondering how you felt going into this match not having the spotlight on you and the pressure and the hype? Was it just a nice chance to just get out and play tennis?

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, it was really good.  I think doubles is always something where, you know, there's not as much pressure and there's not as much nerves and tightness when you go into it.  You just go out there and you want to win, but you also have a lot more, I think, fun and you enjoy it a lot more. 

Q.  You had at the end the other night when you went off, you said you didn't know what to do.  This time you smiled, signed a lot of autographs.  Is it just that relaxation, or have you changed your mind about how to deal with it?

JELENA DOKIC: No, I just think it was different out there today.  We had a good match, we had fun.  It was a lot of people and a different atmosphere, and we both signed, you know, autographs and I appreciated the crowd because I think they were good out there today. 

Q.  Jennifer, you won I think a title with Monica Seles in the doubles.  Is that right, the Italian Open. 

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   Uh-huh. 

Q.  How would you compare your partnership with Jelena? Is it as good a team as that? How do you see it?

JENNIFER CAPRIATI:   Well, I mean I think that was a few years back, a long time ago on clay.  It was just a different time.  But actually, playing with Jelena is kind of similar, you know.  Monica was just always baseline player and, you know, didn't, you know, wasn't your typical serve and volley doubles player.  But I'm that way, too.  So, you know, I stay at the baseline and I think it's good, you know.  We just compliment each other.  She's good at the baseline and then I can maybe, you know, finish the point off at the net.  So it's, you know, she can do the same thing.  So I think we're strong on both ends. 

Q.  Jennifer, Mark Robinson from Melbourne.  Not so long ago you would have been playing doubles and everyone would have been asking you the questions sitting next to your partner.  How does it feel when sort of the majority of questions are directed at Jelena?


Q.  How has it changed? Four five years ago, everyone has been asking you questions about your life and et cetera, et cetera.  How does it feel now that a lot of questions are directed at Jelena and not yourself. 

THE MODERATOR:  That's not the case.  They've been very even.  Tennis-only questions, please.  Is that it?  Okay.  Thank you. 


FastScripts by ASAP Sports….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT