AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2001
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Richard, channel 7.  How did it feel walking out there today? There was a mixed reception for you?

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, it did.  I think it was actually quite okay.  I mean it's something I've had to deal with, and I think I did well.  You know, they clapped my good points and her good points.  I think it's always going to be tough playing Lindsay because she's a crowd favorite everywhere.  I mean, she's one of the best players in the world. 

Q.  You must have expected mixed reception of sorts?

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, I did.  I mean, I actually think it was quite good in ways.  I expected a lot worse, but I actually didn't let it bother me at all, whatever it was going to be.  And I think mentally, I was very good out there today. 

Q.  You say you were expecting it to be a lot worse, yet the Australian public have always been behind you. 

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, they have.  I mean, like I said, you know, it was quite good, and whatever it was going to be, I was going to try and deal with it.  That's what you've got to do.  And I think I did pretty well. 

Q.  Do you stand by your decision to represent Yugoslavia?

JELENA DOKIC: Yes.  Right now.  And I haven't thought about it any further. 

Q.  Your dad was on television just before you walked out on court saying that regardless of the outcome of tonight's match you were likely going to withdraw from the tournament.  Is that true?

JELENA DOKIC: I didn't see that.  I don't know that that was  -- that comment was made, and, you know, I probably would have gone out there and played.  I don't know, I didn't think about it.  You know, I didn't win today and that's something I don't have to consider now. 

Q.  So you had not discussed that with your father then?

JELENA DOKIC: Like I said, I didn't know that that was on tonight.  I didn't know about that. 

Q.  So you knew it was going to be on, but not necessarily tonight?

JELENA DOKIC: No, I didn't know anything.  No. 

Q.  How difficult has it been for you the past few days?

JELENA DOKIC: It's been okay.  I mean I've dealt with it fine.  I've practiced and gotten ready and, you know, I think I'm more, you know, concerned with how I'm playing right now than anything else.  And, you know, that's what I'm happy with.  I've done well in Hong Kong and even out there today, you know, it was tough to break her serve.  But to get close to, you know, No. 2 player in the world   - I think she's probably one of the best out there right now   - it feels really good because I lost to her a lot easier the last time we played.  I'm very confident of my tennis right now.

Q.  You said before you were standing by your decision to stand by Yugoslavia right now.  Do you think it's a possibility it might change?

JELENA DOKIC: No, like I said.  I haven't thought about that.  I'm playing for Yugoslavia right now.  That's the end of that.

Q.  What does it offer you that Australia doesn't?

JELENA DOKIC: That's where I was born, that's where I'm from.  It was just a decision we made and we're standing by it right now. 

Q.  It may just be the Australian media, could be Tennis Australia as well, but the fact is a lot of the Australian public have supported you.  What do you say to those that have supported you for the last few years?

JELENA DOKIC:  You know what, there's just been so many people that have stood by me, even out there today.  I'm grateful for that.  I think a lot of people don't sort of understand some of the things, but I think they will stand by me no matter what my decision is because I've played for Australia for quite a few years.  I've always done well in Fed Cup, the Olympics and Hopman Cup as well.  It's something that they respect, and I think they probably are still hoping that I'm going to come back and play for Australia.  But I think I have a lot of crowd support everywhere I go, especially in Australia.

Q.  Your dad has said that he doesn't get on to well with the Australian media.  Is it all the media? Is it portions of the media? If it's just a segment of the media, isn't that going to happen in any country?

JELENA DOKIC: I don't know.  I mean, there's been a lot of things written about my dad and also then about me and my family, which -- just things that aren't right.  We've been assaulted by the media a lot and I think he feels very strongly about that and he's not very happy with what has been written, especially in the last few months.

Q.  There's been a lot of positive things written about you and your tennis. 

JELENA DOKIC: There has been.  I think it should be, because I've done well.  But then on the other hand, even though I've done well, there have been a lot of things written that weren't right and that shouldn't be written  -- shouldn't have been written. 

Q.  Did you hear the crowd getting quite  -- gave you quite a warm reception, a send-off when you were leaving after the match.  You didn't acknowledge it.  What was the reason for that?

JELENA DOKIC: Well, I think I was, you know, it was the match more than anything.  Disappointment.  But I don't know, I think it was still a very, very mixed crowd and it was  -- I don't think I knew what to do because I just thought maybe I should just leave it and not do anything because, you know, there were people that were going for me.  There were people that were going for Lindsay.  It was a tight match.  But, you know, like I said, there were a lot of people that were supporting me, and that's great to see. 

Q.  You said your father feels very strongly about the negative media coverage.  Do you feel as strongly about all these issues as he does?

JELENA DOKIC: Actually about the media, I do.  I think, you know, I haven't been here that much but I have seen a few articles that, again, I don't think they should be  -- should have been written.  And it just isn't right after, you know, I've played for Australia for a long time and did well every time I've played for Australia and I've beaten world-class players playing in team events for Australia.  I just, you know, some of the things that have been written I'm not happy with.

Q.  What is it that's wrong that you want to clear up? The stuff that's been printed or said about your father, what about it is wrong?

JELENA DOKIC: Every time something came up, they've always attacked him.  There was never positive things written about my dad or about me and my family, especially in the last couple of months.  A lot of people telling us that, you know, they don't want me to play for Australia and that I don't belong here, which I don't think is right after everything I have done.  But, again, there's always something negative written, you know, even when there are positives. 

Q.  Sandra Harwitt from the United States.  Don't you think kind of when you take on this role of being a celebrity and everything, sometimes it just happens that way and you really can't control what's written and plenty of stars, some actors and actresses, have put up with it and don't pay attention to it because you can't control it. 

JELENA DOKIC: Well, yeah.  I know, but I have been  -- I really have been written about in a really negative way.  That's why my dad feels really strongly about that.   I'm starting to feel the same way.  But then again, hopefully that will clear up and hopefully all of this will be behind me and then, you know, like I said, just then I'm going to try and concentrate on my tennis.

Q.  I know you're planning on moving to the United States, to Florida.  What kind of relationship are you planning to have with Yugoslavia and the public and the tennis community there?

JELENA DOKIC: Well, I'm a resident.  I'll be a resident both of Florida in the States and Yugoslavia.  I'll have residence in both of those places, and I'll just be representing Yugoslavia.  And I think, you know, I'll also be residing there. 

Q.  Nicole Pratt said she would be supportive, she and several other players would be supportive.  Has she managed to talk to you at all?

JELENA DOKIC: No, I haven't talked to too many players.  It's been really just a day or two. But, you know, I know that a lot of players will be supportive, and, you know, that's great that I can get support from the players and that they understand what type of situation I'm in. 

Q.  Do you think you'll be playing in Australia again?

JELENA DOKIC: It's something, again, I mean there are only a couple of tournaments in Australia at the beginning of the year and something that I haven't thought about.  It hasn't been discussed about.  But, you know, we'll see. 

Q.  You've lived here the majority of your life that you remember.  Are there good memories at all?

JELENA DOKIC: Definitely.  I've lived here for a long time.  I love Australia and Australians.  I've always said that.  I've always encouraged that, and the support that they give me.  I have never been against anybody or anything in Australia or about Australia.  I've always said that.  You know, I have never said anything bad about that.  I've really enjoyed being here. 

Q.  This is a lot to handle for someone as young as yourself?

JELENA DOKIC: I think it is.  I think I've had quite a bit of it.  I think what makes me, in a way, stronger, I think I'm mentally strong and try and block things out.  I think a lot of players would, you know, under the circumstances, would just, you know, crush and playing out there would just not be able to handle it.  I'm very happy with myself in that regard.  And like I said, I am able to concentrate on the tennis. 

Q.  Was your father watching the match at your hotel? What was he doing tonight?

JELENA DOKIC: I don't know.  I don't think so. 

Q.  He wasn't watching?

JELENA DOKIC: No. 

Q.  Do you know precisely when you will be moving and what are your expectations of life when you get there?

JELENA DOKIC: I've already been practicing there.  I've already bought a place there and have been there since last year and I'll be going straight after this tournament again.  There are tournaments in the States after this. 

Q.  Will you go this week or tomorrow?

JELENA DOKIC: Well, I still have doubles and mixed.  So we'll see how that goes.  And then I'll go there because there are some tournaments coming up.  I'm not playing too much before April, but, you know, which is going to be quite tough.  That's why I started well in Hong Kong and wanted to do well here as well, and I was very disappointed with the draw and  -- but, you know, it's something I have to get past. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT