US OPEN
August 31, 2000
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Tennis questions for Jelena, please.

Q. How were you so able to focus on your tennis today, given what's happened in the
past couple days?

JELENA DOKIC: I think I, you know, played well. My concentration was there the whole
match. I stayed focused. You know, I started playing well straightaway from the beginning.
I just didn't, you know, let her get into the match.

Q. How was it possible that you can just switch on and focus so well, given the last
couple days?

JELENA DOKIC: I don't know. I mean, I don't have any trouble with it. You know, I just
try and go out there and think about the match. That's all you can do really. You've got
to try not to let any other -- anything else distract you because you've just got to
concentrate on the match. 

Q. Seems like you were working over her backhand. Was that sort of your plan going in?

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, it was. She has a good backhand. She can slice well. I think it was
definitely on the return that was the weakness. That's what I tried to target. That's
where I won, you know, a lot of points, especially off the serve. Didn't get broken in the
match. She had some chances, but even on the breakpoints, that backhand side seemed to
break down.

Q. You seemed to be trying to mix things up a bit today, a few lobs, dropshots,
volleys. Did you set out to do that?

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah. You know, I did that in the first match, as well. It's something
I've been working on, to mix my game up a bit, work on that serve. That's what I've been
trying to do, especially for the last couple of weeks. I really try and do that in matches
and be comfortable with it.

Q. Is it going to be difficult now not having a coach on the premises for the rest of
the tournament?

JELENA DOKIC: Well, I think eventually it's something you've got to deal with. You've
got to be able to play yourself. There's nobody out there that can play for you. I know
what I have to work on and I know what I have to do. It's obviously hard not having
anybody there, but I guess it's something I'm going to have to deal with.

Q. Will you think about perhaps having someone else accompany you at tournaments, if
you have to?

JELENA DOKIC: Not at the moment, no. I've still got these few tournaments and the
Olympics coming up. Nothing at the moment. I won't change anything, no.

Q. Do you worry that you might face more of this in the future down the road? 

JELENA DOKIC: Look, like I said, I'm just concentrating on the tennis, taking each day
as it comes. That's all I can do at the moment. Right now what's important for me is that
I got through that second round today, which I'm really happy with, just concentrating on
the rest of the tournament, trying to play well.

Q. It's really a pressure you don't need --?

Q. Have you looked ahead in the draw at all, a couple rounds at least?

JELENA DOKIC: I haven't. I don't even know who I'll play next. I think it's a qualifier
or something.

Q. Would you like the WTA and USTA to review their decision not to let your father on
the premises? 

JELENA DOKIC: Obviously it's something that's been decided. I wouldn't mind it being
changed, of course. That's the way it is right now. I had to go by it today, play my
match, just go on with it.

Q. Have you asked them to review it all?

JELENA DOKIC: No, I haven't spoken to anybody.

Q. What was the last thing you said before you parted company today?

JELENA DOKIC: I went back to have lunch. We just spoke about the match because I played
her before, knew what I had to do. Just tried not to worry about anything else, try not to
put pressure on myself about winning a match, just going out there and playing, just
seeing what happens.

Q. Were there any sort of coaching tips that he was able to give you today before the
match?

JELENA DOKIC: Well, like I said, we knew what I had to do, target her backhand a bit
more, just play my game. I knew that if I was aggressive enough, that I could win the
match. You know, she mixes it up well. She comes in a bit, which is always hard. She has a
pretty good serve. I was just trying to, you know, make her play and everything.

Q. Was it an easy win? It looked pretty easy standing on the sidelines. 

JELENA DOKIC: Well, first set I think was. Second set was a bit tougher. Had some
chances to break in all of her games, but didn't take them. She sort of seemed to win
those games. It was a pretty tough match for me to stay focused, not to let her get back
in the match, just not let her break my serve.

Q. Have you spoken to your dad since your win?

JELENA DOKIC: No, I haven't.

Q. You mentioned that you were relieved. Is that a sense that you feel right now? After
this feeling of relief, did you call your father and tell him what happened in the match?

JELENA DOKIC: I tried to call, but I couldn't get through. I definitely feel relieved.
I really wanted to get through this match today because I knew I had a chance. It was an
important one for me. I definitely have a chance in the next match, as well. Again, a
Grand Slam, after Wimbledon, to win rounds, have a chance to get to the fourth round,
that's a great result for me. I was definitely relieved today because I really wanted to
get through this one. First few matches are always tough to get through. 

Q. Will there be anyone courtside for you for the duration of the tournament?

JELENA DOKIC: Probably not, no. Not right now. I've still got doubles, just warming up
in practices. Like I said, I know what I have to do, what I've been working on. You've got
to be able to play matches and practice yourself because you're the one that's playing.

Q. Was it difficult to prepare for today?

JELENA DOKIC: A little bit. You know, I had a good warm-up in the morning. I went back,
just try to focus on the match, think about what I'm going to do. Sometimes when you think
about a match too much, you get a bit too tight about it, you worry about it too much. I
seemed to get through it fine.

Q. Mary Pierce said a short time ago, having had a similar situation, you get through
this, it just makes you stronger. Would you agree?

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, definitely. I think getting through matches for me at the moment,
to get through them, to be able to play the same way that I do no matter what happens, it
just makes me feel really good. That's why I was relieved to win today.

Q. How are you scouting and preparing for the tournament as it goes on?

JELENA DOKIC: As I say, I don't know who I have next round. Again, it would always come
probably down to how I play because I play aggressively. If I don't make errors, if I do
what I have to do and serve well, I can get through matches.

Q. Can you ask around among the players?

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, definitely. I think everybody knows each other. Between the
players, we all know each other pretty well. It's just a matter of finding out.

Q. Have any of the players here or at Wimbledon when you've had your problems been
particularly helpful or supportive towards you?

JELENA DOKIC: A lot of them have been, yeah. I haven't spoken to anybody in particular.
I seem to get along with everybody fine. I think the more tournaments I've played, the
further I've gotten, I've only been on the tour for two years also, I think I seem to have
gotten to know everybody. Everybody seems to be very nice.

Q. Has anybody given you particular encouragement. 

JELENA DOKIC: No. Just everybody in general has been quite supportive.

Q. Lesley Bowrey, the Olympic coach, would you ask her to work with you for the rest of
the tournament?

JELENA DOKIC: Like I said, no at the moment, no. I'm just going to leave things as they
are.

Q. Are you looking for someplace away from this site that you can practice?

JELENA DOKIC: You know, the tournament has started. If you win singles matches, you
always have a day in between. I have doubles. If I get through in that, you know, I'm not
going to practice a couple of hours a day, like three, four, five hours a day where I'm
going to have to go someplace else. It's going to be warm-ups and nothing more than that.
I think I'll stay there.

Q. Do you see the tennis court as a refuge, a place where you can get away from things,
focus on other things in life?

JELENA DOKIC: I think once you have matches and you play and practice and do your own
thing at the courts, you sort of seem to just focus on tennis. I think that's what
everybody seems to do. If you have a match, you just focus on that, you don't worry about
anything else. That's sort of what I had to do today.

Q. You had huge support out there after the match. Is that usual?

JELENA DOKIC: I've had great support, especially at Wimbledon. I seem to get good
support wherever I go. Probably wasn't so surprising that I did. There were quite a few
people out there. It's always good to have a good atmosphere.

Q. Did you feel good support in the locker room today also?

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah. Like I said, a lot of players have supported me. I seem to get
along with everybody great.

Q. Players are coming up to you and saying things to you. Is that embarrassing in a
sense?

JELENA DOKIC: No, not really. I think it shows just how much players sort of care for
each other. There's not sort of anything between us. For me, like I said, you know,
whether they support me or not, it's something that I have to deal with. I have to go out
and play my matches.

Q. Do you ever think it would be nice to be able to focus on your tennis without these
distractions?

JELENA DOKIC: Doesn't seem to distract me. I did well at Wimbledon. I seem to do well
at tournaments. I've done very well this year, had some good results, some consistent
ones, too, which is important for me at the moment. Doesn't seem to distract me. That's
what the match today showed. I was there the whole time. It looks like an easy score line,
but every point, I sort of concentrated on what I had to do and I was there on the court.

Q. It's easy to put things aside?

JELENA DOKIC: For me, yeah.

Q. Were you able to get any sleep last night?

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah. I slept fine, actually. It was good to get some sleep, very good.
Again, it's something you've got to deal with. I seem to deal with it well.

Q. Are you playing the Olympic Games?

JELENA DOKIC: Yes.

Q. Is your mom here, as well?

JELENA DOKIC: No, no. Just my dad. My brother is at school.

Q. Have you spoken to your mom in the last 24 hours?

JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, I spoke to my mom and my brother this morning. I speak to them
every day, just about life and things. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT