WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2000
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Did you think in your wildest dreams that you could repeat your splendid achievement of last year and reach another quarterfinal?

JELENA DOKIC:  I guess I was always hoping, but it was always going to be very tough, you know, under the circumstances.  The fact that I did very well last year, there was probably a lot of pressure on me to do well here again.  You know, I was taking it match by match, just hoping I'll play well and get into form.  It's great that I did it again.  You know, I think I can go maybe at least another round.

Q.  What do you mean by "tough under the circumstances"? 

JELENA DOKIC:  With the fact that I did so well last year, I think people were expecting me to do very well again.  There was a lot of pressure on me to come back and, you know, do well again because I did so well here last year.

Q.  Was it more difficult this year, playing lower  -ranked opponents?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, definitely.  Lower-ranked opponents can play very well against me because they've got nothing to lose.  They're very tough to play against sometimes.  Sometimes it's even better to play the higher-ranked players.  I feel like, you know, I like to play the higher-ranked players better than the lower-ranked players because I go out there with the thinking, you know, "I've got nothing to lose.  I can actually win these matches."  You know, no matter who you play, I think it's tough.  To come back here again two years in a row to make the quarters, it's great.

Q.  So is there a sense of relief that you've got this far as well as the pride of having done it?

JELENA DOKIC:  Well, not yet.  I don't think so.  You know, I'm not satisfied  -- I mean, I'm satisfied that I'm doing well, but, you know, I think I can, you know, even win the next round.  I've been playing quite well.  I've been very tough mentally as well in my matches.  I feel really good.

Q.  How are you looking at the Serna match?  What do you feel you've got that can beat her?

JELENA DOKIC:  I've played her once and beat her, but that was a while ago.  I haven't played her since.  You know, she's a left-hander, tough to play.  But, you know, I think I can win that match for sure, you know, if I play well.  I think the one today was probably, you know, one of the tougher ones so far because, you know, she makes you play a lot.  You know, I think I did very well with the score.

Q.  Can you tell us about your coaching arrangement at the moment?  Is it true that your father and yourself have parted ways with Tony Roche?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yes.  I'm not working with him, you know, anymore - not here anyway.  You know, whoever I can work with and find.  My dad's doing most of the, you know, work with me.

Q.  Why did you sack Tony?

JELENA DOKIC:  I think my dad and I thought it was something that we should try, have a go at, just try a few things that we thought we might try, a few things that we thought might work, just sort of, you know, do our own thing without anybody else.

Q.  What was Tony's reaction?

JELENA DOKIC:  I spoke to him.  I said to him, you know, what I thought.  I haven't spoken to him since.  I haven't seen him since, so.  You know, I guess I think he was disappointed, but we're not working together anymore.  You know, sometimes that happens. 

Q.  Did you not rate him highly as a coach?

JELENA DOKIC:  No, no, I think he's a great coach, probably one of the best ones you can have.  I've got nothing against him, don't get me wrong.  Like I said, I think my dad and I thought it was, you know, probably something that we should try and have a go at.

Q.  That was after Rosmalen, was it?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yes.

Q.  When did you sack him?

JELENA DOKIC:  Just before Wimbledon.

Q.  Is that because of results you've had, as well, that you felt at that point your game wasn't going where you thought it should?

JELENA DOKIC:  Well, like I said, I mean, probably not.  I've had good results since I've been working with him, you know.  But, like I said, you know, I feel comfortable, you know, hitting with, you know, just people that I want to hit with and do my own thing.  You know, I rate him very high as a coach, but, you know, I thought maybe have some time apart, just thought we should try that out. 

Q.  You've spoken about your relationship with your dad on and off the court  - obviously, a huge part of your life.  Do you ever get the feeling that you're playing for two people out there?

JELENA DOKIC:  No, not really.  I think whatever I do is for myself.  I'm the one that's playing out there.  No matter if it's my dad or mom, whoever it is, it's just another person by my side.  Like I said, it's always good, no matter who it is, to have support by your side.  Whatever I do out there is something that I do, win or lose.  If I win, great, it's my win.  If I lose, it's my fault.  No one else can, you know, do anything about it.  But I feel like I play for myself.  You know, they're just people that are in my life, support me.  They're people that are on my side.  You know, like I said again, win or lose, it's my  -- you know, whether I gain or not, it's my thing.

Q.  So your father is now taking Tony Roche's place as your coach, to understand?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah.  I've been just working with him, you know, us two working on my game , what I should work on, what I should fix, before matches what I should stick to.  It's only been, you know, only recent, what, about a week or so.  It's been fine so far.

Q.  Is it because your relationship with your father is so close that makes it difficult for you to work with another coach?

JELENA DOKIC:  Well, I think always when you have  -- when you're close, like with somebody that, you know, knows your game and works with you, it's always hard to get somebody else in there.  You know, I've always said this, you know, nobody knows my game better than me, you know, somebody who works with me, which most of the time has been my dad.  I think he's the one that I probably turn to most.  Even if I work with somebody else, I always ask him for things, opinions. 

Q.  Are you having fun, as much as last year?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, I think I am.  I really enjoyed this tournament.  I've been playing well in my matches, I've cruised through most of my matches.  It's just been great.  Besides people expecting me to do well, I've just blocked that out.  When I play out there, I've enjoyed playing, I really have this week.  Hopefully it will continue.

Q.  You're also now on the brink of a Wimbledon semifinal without having met a seed.  Is that an irresistible opportunity you feel you must take?

JELENA DOKIC:  Well, I definitely think so.  There have been a few holes in the draw, you know.  It happens sometimes.  I feel, you know, this next match is my opportunity.  Probably thought that last year in the quarterfinals, as well, that I was meant to get through, you can't underestimate anybody.  I think I have a really good chance this year.  If I play like I have been and stay confident, I think I can get to the semis.

Q.  Your confidence is clearly justified.  Have you thought further ahead that it could be Monica Seles in the semifinal?  Does that motivate you more to play her?

JELENA DOKIC:  Well, I'm thinking more about the next match, each match as it comes.  If I get through the next match, you know, I think for me the more important one is tomorrow because I know it will be tough, the one I really want to get through.

Q.  But she was an inspiration to you?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, definitely.  I think if I get through the next one, whoever gets through, you know, at the bottom, it's always an inspiration to play them.  You want to win.  You know it's a big occasion - semis at Wimbledon.  One more and you can be in the final.  I think whoever I play, you know, I'll really try my best and fight to get through. 

Q.  Does the fact that Magui Serna beat Mary Pierce make any difference?

JELENA DOKIC:  Well, I mean, obviously Mary has been playing well, and she beat her.  Well, I guess she must be playing well, as well.  I think, again, I've stuck to my game the whole week.  My second round match, beat Mauresmo, as well, another seed.  I'm probably tough on grass, and I've gotten through that match.  I think, you know, again, if I stick to my game and play well, I can get through. 

Q.  You spoke before about the restrictions on younger players.  Would you have liked to have played more tournaments this year?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, probably a few more I wouldn't mind.  It's always good to play as much as you want.  If you don't do well in some, you can always fix that up and do well in others.  At the moment, I don't have that.  I have to do well in every single tournament. 

Q.  Is that a feeling shared by a lot of the younger players, they would like to play more?

JELENA DOKIC:  I definitely think so.  I mean, I don't know what they think about that.  I haven't spoken to anybody.  I don't know what their points are.  I think, you know, you feel like you're restricted by what you can play.  You feel like you're out there trying to compete with other players who can play maybe twice as much as I can.  That sort of lets you down a bit.  I think that also makes you think, "I have to do well in every single tournament," which is sometimes hard to do.  Also, you know, before a Grand Slam, you have some players playing three, four, five tournaments prior the US, for example, whereas I can only play one or two.  Sometimes I only play one.  That's hard to do. I think I've coped well with that, tried not to think about it, just go into a tournament and play well. 

Q.  Do you still have school at the moment?

JELENA DOKIC:  Yeah, yeah.  Year 12 this year. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT