THE MASTERS SERIES - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 23, 2000
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WTA: Questions. 
 
Q. Could you talk about your victory today, how you feel you played?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Tough conditions because it was very windy. It's very tough to play under
those conditions. But I'm glad to get through that first match. I mean, I think the first
one is always the toughest. Also when you have a difficult opponent, it's tough as well.
I've never played her before, so I'm glad to get through the first match, looking forward
to the next match. 
 
Q. You have Martinez. Have you played her before?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, played her quite a few times. 
 
Q. How have you done against her?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: We've had some tough matches. She's a Top 10, nearly Top 5 at the moment.
She's always a tough opponent, a difficult opponent as well. I mean, I've got nothing to
lose. I might as well just go out there and play, see how I do. I've had tough matches
with her. Hopefully I'll win tomorrow. I've been practicing well, I'm in form. Hopefully
I'll win. 
 
Q. Did your dad come with you to this event?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: No. My mom is here. My dad is coming the next few tournaments.  
 
Q. You're no stranger to the upset, everybody knows that now. Do you go into a match
like that with an opponent who is a Top 10 player with a different attitude than maybe to
today's match?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, definitely. She today had nothing to lose because I think on paper
I was supposed to win. I think against a Top 10 player, they're always meant to get
through somehow to the semis or quarters or final. That's why I have a different mentality
going into that match because I'll just go out there and play my game. I've got nothing to
lose. She's the one that should be worried about how she's going to do. I had a match here
under my belt, which she doesn't, with a bye in the first round. Maybe that will make a
difference as well. Like I said, we'll just see how it goes.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT