US OPEN
August 30, 1999
Jelena Dokic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 WTA: First question, please.  
 
Q. Unusual for you, a lot of unforced errors out there today?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah. I think I didn't play too bad until 4-1. Just fell apart from
there. Held my serve at 4-All, so I was still sort of in there. But my game definitely
fell apart from 4-1. Too many unforced errors. I think I just gave the match away, just
gave a lot away. 
 
Q. Was it because of the conditions? Anything you can pinpoint?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Well, maybe a little bit. It was just different, you know, with the wind.
I guess first time on center court here. You know, you have to cope with that. I was all
right until 4-1. Like I said, then just fell apart.  
 
Q. Was there anything in particular that happened out there that caused it?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: I think it's obvious, I just made so many errors. I mean, I had a game
plan going into it, which I stuck by till 4-1. You know, it worked. I was in the point. I
mixed it up. Dropshots, came in a few times. I didn't miss. I got up to 4-1 and didn't
play too badly. But from there, just after she broke me, I mean, I think those two games
against the wind were crucial there in the first set. Then after that, I just started
making errors and gave a lot away.  
 
Q. In light of how you played at Wimbledon, how disappointed are you?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Very. But I haven't had a lot of matches lately. I think that's probably
one thing, I haven't had matches, and I don't have that much confidence because I haven't
played matches in so long after Wimbledon. I think the difference is that at Wimbledon, I
came through qualifying, which is much tougher, but I had matches coming in. I had
qualifying singles and doubles. It was a different story. It was a different player, I
think, compared to Wimbledon. Definitely a different match to, let's say, a Hingis match.
I just had everything right over there. I had a lot of practice matches, as well. I think
coming into this tournament, it's been quite a bit of practice. I haven't played that much
since Wimbledon. 
 
Q. Why is it you haven't been playing matches?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: I played the Canadian Open two weeks ago, but I had a week in between,
because I'm limited. I didn't go to New Haven. I didn't play anything there. I've just
been practicing since then. Also, you know, even before Canadian Open I didn't play
anything. No matter how I did there, it's still not a lot of matches. 
 
Q. Is that all because of the age eligibility?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah. It limits you because you can't play everything. You've got to pick
your tournaments. Even after this now, I've hardly got anything to play. I'm struggling to
find tournaments where I can go to, what time I'm going to play them. I can't just go to
any tournament. 
 
Q. Is that right, you can only play another four tournaments until next April, is it?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yes. Four or five. 
 
Q. Is it having a negative effect on your development?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Well, I don't know if it's having a negative effect, but I think, you
know, knowing you've got five tournaments for the next eight months, that's like one
tournament in two months. That's a big difference compared to some of the players -- well,
most of the players who can play as much as they want. Probably would have liked to have a
few more tournaments, but that's the rules and I have to play by them. 
 
Q. What will you do? Go back and play Juniors?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: No, no, definitely not. I've got Tokyo after this, Aussie Open, of
course. I'll see what I'll do, what I'll play. 
 
Q. You said five minutes or so ago you need matches. 
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah, you do. I don't think by saying I need matches you can go back to
Juniors. You're coming down another level. Even though I don't have a lot of tournaments
to play, I won't go back and play Juniors. I think that's a total mistake to do that
because it's, I guess, a level down from what I'm facing now. Hingis at Wimbledon, Sanchez
here, playing Top-10 players and playing Juniors is a big difference. You can't expect to
play Juniors and then come out and play a Top 10 player and do well.  
 
Q. Do you feel the momentum you had coming out of Wimbledon has sort of been lost
because of this scheduling?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: A little bit, I think. I'm not blaming this on the age eligibility rule.
I just sort of feel like -- I didn't feel comfortable enough like I did at Wimbledon when
I played a lot. I've had about four matches in the last three months, since Wimbledon,
which is not a lot. I think really to get a feel, you need about two or three matches,
especially coming after Wimbledon and having a break for a few weeks. 
 
Q. What has it been like? What did that do for you, your run at Wimbledon? Did it
change things in your life, or did they remain pretty much the same?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: It's changed quite a bit. You know, tennis-wise, I think I've probably
learned quite a bit, a bit more experience, and confidence as well. I played Fed Cup after
that, had a match or two there. I did well there. I mean, I felt quite good at Fed Cup
because it was just about a week after Wimbledon. But I think then after Fed Cup, I had a
few weeks which I think makes a big difference. I haven't been able to come out and play
matches before a Grand Slam.  
 
Q. Have you spoken to your father at all?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah. 
 
Q. What was his reaction?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Well, I think disappointing, of course. Not just with the fact that I
lost, but just with the fact that after what happened, you know, at 4-1. I rushed. Just a
total loss of concentration. I think after losing that first set, even though I lost that
first set, I still sort of should have kept on trying to play well in the second set. I
fell apart even more. 
 
Q. Do you find yourself, because of the limited tournaments you've had, putting
yourself -- putting a lot of pressure on yourself? You can't say, "There's always
next week." 
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Exactly. I've said this a lot of times, but when you're competing with
players that can play 30 tournaments a year, nearly three times as much as I can, I've got
to come on a tournament and do well because if I don't, I don't have another week to maybe
fix it up. Especially with the way my tournaments are spread, I maybe have two tournaments
in a row, and that's it. I can't play four or five tournaments. It probably does a little
bit, but it doesn't bother me too much. It's probably a fact. I think for players who are
limited, or will be limited in the future, I think it does make quite a difference.  
 
Q. Is that compounded by the fact that this is the US Open, being a Grand Slam and
having to play this?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Yeah. Coming after Wimbledon, not playing many matches, coming into a
Grand Slam, it makes a difference. When you come into a Grand Slam, you don't have a feel
of playing matches again, get it going again, whereas when I had a first round at
Wimbledon, I played a tournament before, I had like six, seven matches in qualifying.
You've got your rhythm going, and you play every day.  
 
Q. Why not play more Challengers? Is the level not high enough?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Well, I can't, because they count as tournaments as well. 
 
Q. Within age eligibility, you get to play a portion of Challenger, Satellites?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: But it counts as a tournament. Doesn't matter what you play, satellites,
WTA, Grand Slams, it counts. If I'm going to play a Challenger, I might as well play a WTA
event. 
 
Q. How were you able to focus so clearly at Wimbledon after what happened a couple
weeks earlier? Was that difficult to block out?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: No, I don't think it was. What came out of Wimbledon was pretty much
blown up. A lot happened there, but it didn't bother me because I knew half those things
weren't true anyway. I think it was just a story that people had something to write about
at Wimbledon. 
 
Q. You are quite a bit smaller than some of the other girls, good players. Have you
grown much lately, a bit of a growth spurt?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: I don't know (laughter). I guess I'm still growing for a few more years,
hopefully. I think I still have a bit more development to do compared to some of the other
players who are older, have pretty much developed. 
 
Q. Are you working on your strength at all?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Not much, no, I haven't been doing that much. I don't know. I've just
been working mainly on court right now. I might do something a bit later on. 
 
Q. Is there a plan from this point as to what you're going to concentrate on?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: Well, I have Tokyo, which is in about two weeks, play that, then see what
happens, what I'm going to do for the rest of the year, if I'll play anything and what
I'll play. 
 
Q. Are you going to have another coach as well as your father or just stay with your
dad?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: I'll have a hitting partner, which is with me here, which works with me.
I might take someone along, yeah.  
 
Q. Because Arantxa hits the ball so softly at times, with all the angles, is she the
most frustrating type of player to lose to?
 
 JELENA DOKIC: No. Actually, I don't think so. Until 4-1, that type of game suited me. I
could have done whatever I wanted with the ball. You know, she doesn't hit that softly.
Might look that way, but she hits good enough to beat you. You just have to get your head
together and decide what you're going to do, if you're going to hit the ball, dropshot it
a few times, came in, it worked. I think if you think out there what you're going to do,
it's fine. After 4-1, I didn't do that, so.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT