U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 11, 1996
Greg Norman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 LES UNGER:  Thank you, Greg, for coming with us this morning.
 As we were just checking, your last appearance here or your last
chance to play this golf course was in 1985, so I guess the only
thing I have to ask is what your recollections are of--

 GREG NORMAN:  I really don't remember too much of the golf course,
to tell you the truth.  I just remember the way I finished 15th
in the tournament, so all I can remember is the 18th hole, one
of the great finishing holes that I have ever played.  I probably
remember 15 of the holes.  I have to get out there and get an
idea of the layout and where the holes flow.  I am sure I will
get my recollection back of how the golf course plays, but I do
remember it is a long golf course.  I do remember there is a lot
of left-to-rights, but I don't remember the degree of left-to-right
shots, so I am looking forward to having my practice round right
now.

 LES UNGER:  Questions for Greg.


 Q.  Greg, tell us, how much harder is it for an Australian
or somebody like yourself to succeed here?  I am thinking in terms
of yourself, Grant Waite, Frank Nobilo, Michael Campbell?

 GREG NORMAN:  To succeed?

 Q.  How much harder for you, from the southern hemisphere,
 is it to succeed?  I am thinking of the New Zealanders as well
when you are coming onto the Tour here?

 GREG NORMAN:  It is not hard for me at all because I live here.
 I have been living in the states since 1982, so I don't have
that adjustment to make flying back and forth.  You see most of
the guys who come from that part of the world do have some house
here or property here where they can put their suitcase in there
for a couple of months at a time.  The Frank Nobilos and Michael
Campbells of the world have places in the northern hemisphere
in London.  So you have to make that adjustment to where you want
to go play and I wanted to play in the United States, so I bought
a place and I live here.  So I don't think it is very difficult
at all to be successful over here.

 Q.  The Majors really would get your juices running now? Is
that the reason you play golf rather than regulation Tour events?

 GREG NORMAN:  Well, I think they've always done that.

 Q.  But more so now?

 GREG NORMAN:  Probably more so now, yeah.  I think because of
the way your life has changed and the structure of your life has
changed, you know, you can look back over the decades from one
decade to the next from the '70's to the '80s to the '90s, and
my whole life -- the structure of my life has changed.  Now I
do a lot more things off the golf course, which I really enjoy
doing, in business, so when you come back to the game of golf,
you really come back for the four tournaments you dearly want
to win the most and that is the Major Championships; so to answer
your question, yeah, you really want to be ready and able to play
the four tournaments a year and those are the ones you really
want to win.

 Q.  Have you been particularly impatient for this Major to
actually start?

 GREG NORMAN:  No, I have not been impatient.  As a matter of
fact, I haven't thought about the U.S. Open until I got here last
night.  I get more impatient with the Masters because I start
thinking about that January 1st of that year; whereas, with the
U.S. Open, British Open, PGA, because they come so quickly, you
know, on top of each other, you are playing other tournaments
at the time, you really don't have that much time to worry about
it or think about it.  Are far as the Masters, because you have
got from August all the way through to April, you kind of like
get your juices flowing early on, so I haven't really thought
about the U.S. Open until last night.

 Q.  If there was a lesson for you regarding The Masters, what
was it and how has it changed you coming into this one?

 GREG NORMAN:  Well, I think you always learn from your mistakes.
 I haven't really ironed it out, but I have got a  pretty good
idea of what it might have been and once you know that, you can
use it for the next time you play.  I made a few judgmental mistakes
at The Masters with two shots, that is all.  And I have been over
that round very, very closely and scrutinized it with a fine tooth
comb basically, and I really came up with two bad shots; so it
wasn't my physical part of my game.  My rhythm may be a little
bit out because when you get yourself behind the eight-ball you
try and push a little bit and when you try and push at Augusta,
you don't get there.  So that might have been the only thing that
threw me out was my rhythm.

 Q.  Were the mistakes that you made in the attempt or the
decision you made as to what kind of a shot you were going to
use before --

 GREG NORMAN:  No, just a bad swing.  That is all.  Hit two bad
swings; one on 8 and one on 16, and that was it.

 Q.  After your long vacation, you came back at The Memorial
and had won the previous year.  This time you missed the cut.
 Now the next week you have improved, made the cut and everything.
 What is the state of your game and can you be a winner this week?

 GREG NORMAN:  I can be a winner any time, really, because I think
if you look back over the series of events, the week before The
Masters, both Faldo and I missed the cut at TPC.  We didn't play
New Orleans, but we both miss the cut.  So is there any bearing
on what is going to happen during a Major Championship?  No, I
don't think so at all.  I think the guys, when they come in here,
getting ready for a Major Championship, have a tendency of tweaking
up their game that week.  Their concentration may get a little
bit sharper, so I don't think there is any bearing on what happens
the previous two weeks or three weeks or month.  I have read one
comment by Ernie Els, the week -- last week he was playing --
what does he do at Buick Open?  He wins by 8 shots, so what --
who knows what this game can do for you in a week.  All I know
is when you come in for a Major Championship, you focus that much
more technically  on what your ultimate goal is and that is to
win.

 Q.  Talk a little bit about how you have been treated by the
galleries since you have come back after a long break?

 GREG NORMAN:  No different than any other time I have been out.
 The galleries have always been very supportive. They love to
play the game.  They love to watch the game.  I haven't -- you
know, I can say the gallery has been extremely supportive, popular
about my approach to the game and my approach to life.

 Q.  Specifically, what part of your game have you been working
on, if any, specifically, lately?

 GREG NORMAN:  I have been working on my short game, basically.
 You know, you can work on your short game, work on  your short
game.  You can see nothing come out of it.  Then all of a sudden
something happens.  And I think the short game is part of your
long game - if your rhythm is a little bit out, your rhythm is
going to be out in your short game.  Your technique might be out,
but you can fix your technique by if your ball-- the type of shot
you are hitting or the type of chip you are hitting tells you
what part of your technique is wrong, so you fix that and then
the rest is just a matter of timing and confidence.  That is what
I have been working on last couple of weeks.

 Q.  Just go over last week, a little bit at the Buick. You
started off real strong and then you seemed to kind of run out
of gas on the weekends.  Any particular reason or just not as
focused or --

 GREG NORMAN:  No, I was focused.  I was really into it because
that is one of my favorite golf courses on the Tour.  I really
enjoy that.  I drove the ball exceptionally well all week long.
 I mean, just again, as Jimmy alluded to, my short game wasn't
as sharp.  When I tried to play aggressive iron shots, which is
a call you got to make on that golf course at the time and if
I missed the shot, I had a hard time getting it up-and-down and
that where -- as the week went by, that is what was showing through,
the most, is my weakest part of my game at that time.

 Q.  Is the course playing the same way, the greens, the  rough,
was that the same (inaudible) --

 GREG NORMAN:  I haven't been out here yet, but it was pretty
tough there.  The greens are very hard, firm, very fast on the
weekend, especially Saturday, and Shinnecock -- I mean -- Shinnecock.....
(laughter) at Westchester, I was on the wrong side of the hole
when I missed my second shots.

 Q.  How important is it to you to add a U.S. Open to your
resume?

 GREG NORMAN:  Well, any Major is important.  I'd like to, obviously,
like to win one here in the United States.  I have come close,
so any Major Championship I will take, and give myself a chance
to win this come some day and if I take it, I will be happy.

 Q.  The wetness and softness of the course is going to be
something that is going to be around all week.  How much of a
factor is that going to be this week, do you think?  Does it now
hurt a number of people who are really going to be suited to the
course?

 GREG NORMAN:  Not knowing -- I can't remember the golf course,
to tell you the honest truth.  Once I get out there and I know
how the golf course is playing, whether softness is going to be
a factor or whether firmness would be a factor to make the golf
course play easier.  I would imagine the softness around here
would probably have a tendency of making the fairways being a
little  wider because the ball won't run or release.  Then again,
if you miss the fairways and the rough is going to be lush, so
it is going to be harder to get it out.  So there is a compromising
deal both ways.  But -- and then, obviously, softness, the greens
are going to be soft, so maybe it -- you can play a little bit
more aggressive.  If my memory is right, this being a long golf
course, you are hitting a lot of middle irons into these greens,
so the softer the greens, the more receptive they are to that
type of shot.  So after hearing all that, I would say the rain
might make it just that much easier if you are driving the ball
great.

 Q.  Are you anymore anxious this time to get involved?

 GREG NORMAN:  In a what?

 Q.  In a Major Championship, are you anymore anxious after
what happened at Augusta to get involved --

 GREG NORMAN:  Not at all.  I am anxious any time.  As I answered
the question before, I look forward to playing the four Majors
I get a great sense of satisfaction out of trying to be the hunted
or trying to be the hunter in a Major Championship and at any
golf tournament, to tell you the truth.  But it is a more self-satisfying
feeling in a Major Championship to be that way, so irrespective
of what happened at The Masters, it doesn't matter, that is all
history.  That  is water over the damn.  I am looking forward
to this tournament.  I hope I have a 6 shot lead come Sunday.
 I look forward to that moment.  If I don't; if I am one or two
back, I look forward to that moment too.  I will just go and play
with what I have got.

 Q.  You mentioned earlier the 18th hole.  Do you remember
enough of it from '85 to perhaps consider where it would rank
among the finishing holes?

 GREG NORMAN:  No, I don't.  Ask me after tomorrow afternoon two
more practice rounds and I can put it on a scale for you.

 Q.  How surprised were you at the level of sympathy that came
after The Masters; not just here but also particularly from Australia?

 GREG NORMAN:  Well, surprise is -- "overwhelmed" is
a better word than "surprise."  I think people just
appreciate what the game of golf does for everybody.  And I have
always said winning and losing, it doesn't really matter.  It
is how you play the game.  It is how the end result is played
out.  I think people realize that, you know, when they see a lot
of other sports, the antics and the approach of some of the other
athletes take towards a loss or a bad call or something like that
- I have seen it here in the United States last time -- we have
all seen it.  All the guys have seen it.  Some of the athletes
here, the way they  perform and they don't get the right decision.
 And I honestly think the public sees that.  So when they see
it coming on the other side, they want -- they see it, boy, this
is a role model that I want my kid to be.  I don't want my kid
to come up and think because you got a bad call, you can get abusive,
and get aggressive towards somebody, or if you don't win, you
don't talk to anybody, you don't talk to the media or you just
go hide in a hole for a couple of days.  And they see that.  I
think that is a good image that everybody -- that is why the game
of golf has been so good for hundreds of years.  And if I can
play a part of one little piece of that, as I say, win lose or
draw, I enjoy the position I put myself in and people understand
that.  They see that.  They feel that.  And you know, I guess
they just want to write in and say that to that degree.  That
basically was the theme and approach that most people wrote.

 Q.  The last time somebody asked this, I think your responses
were up to what, 7,500?  What are they up to now, ballpark?

 GREG NORMAN:  Frank will know.  I haven't been in the office
for two weeks, so I mean, they are probably -- they are not coming
in at that rate.  I go to tournaments now; I am sure we will get
them back at the office.  Ask that gray haired guy over there.
 He might tell you.

 Q.  Shinnecock last year, they have done it, I think, on 5
 holes, made some chipping areas around some of the greens rather
than have the rough up.  What are your thoughts about that and
is that good for an Open?

 GREG NORMAN:  I think they did a great job.  I think it started
at Brookline, to tell you the truth.  The way they set up Brookline
was good a U.S. Open setup that I have ever seen it.  Was tough
and it was fair.  And it made you play all types of different
shots around the green.  And I think -- as I said, I haven't been
out there yet.  But if they have got it out here, I think they
just continued what was at Brookline which I think would be a
great asset.

 Q.  A sports writer from NEW YORK TIMES named the course 
"The monster."  Your generation, when they hear about
Oakland Hills when you hear this monster name applied to it, do
you buy that or do you think those guys are kind of living in
the past --

 GREG NORMAN:  I think in answer to your question, I think technology
has made a lot of that monsterism obsolete.  Take Doral is a perfect
example.  Doral was called the Blue Monster.  Golf balls and technology
and the equipment, I know I am driving the ball further now than
what I was five years ago.  And I am only talking five years,
and you are talking over 25-year span or 30-year span where the
technology is really going way, way ahead.  Not only the technology
of the equipment we use, but in the agronomy equipment, the mowers
 they use on the fairways now, the fairways are so tight and pure;
you get that the little extra roll, 3, 4, 5 yards extra. You multiply
that by 18, you know, that brings the golf course down maybe another
55, 75, 80, sometimes 100 yards short.  So you know, I do think
about those things and I can think of Firestone for another example
and we play it in Akron; that is supposed to be a monster golf
course and guys go out there and shoot 61s around the golf course.
 So it would be very interesting if you could.  You can't, you
could never do but take some of the good players nowadays and
give them the equipment that the Sneeds and the Nelsons and the
Hogans and the golf course that they used and take us out there
and have an exhibition match one day and see what would actually
happen to our playability and what clubs would we hit differently.
 I think it would be a wonderful test.  I don't think they make
golf balls like that anymore.  To answer your question, I think
technology has just slipped right on the top of all that so that
is why you see golf courses now where you normally had a bunker
turn at 250 making the turning point of the hole and now it is
somewhere around 250, 270, so you have to add on that 15 yards
because of technology of equipment.

 Q.  When people mention Shinnecock, what are your thoughts?
 What do you remember most about last year's Open?

 GREG NORMAN:  Probably the toughest Open.  The best  venue you
could ever have an Open at.  Mainly because it was setup fantastically
well with the Links-style approach.  They let us play bump-and-run
shots.  Of all the Opens we played, I think that was the toughest
one.  The toughest and the fairest and most enjoyable play under
those conditions.

 Q.  Wondering on that sportsmanship angle with other sports,
why does golf remain untarnished when most of the other sports
are tarnished by some other individuals, is it something about
the game or do you take some credit for that or do you feel it
is a responsibility?

 GREG NORMAN:  Well, it is a responsibility you have with the
position you take in your job.  And it's a responsibility you
carry on from the Bobby Joneses of the world, and the Hogans of
the world, and the Palmers of the world, and Nicklauses of the
world, and Watsons of the world - just a continuing process. 
If you are part of that lineup, it is a great honor to be in the
lineup with those guys because you know you are continuing on
the image and the integrity of the game.

 LES UNGER:  Thanks for coming, Greg, lots of luck this week.



 End of FastScripts.....       


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT