SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
March 31, 2010
Fred Couples
Tim Finchem
Greg Norman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURA HILL: Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for joining us here at the Shell Houston Open. We also have some media joining via teleconference for this special Presidents Cup announcement. Before I turn it over to Commissioner Finchem, I want to just clear up some housekeeping. We'll take questions here from the floor, then we'll open up the mike for the teleconference questions. Anything related to The Presidents Cup will get taken care of first and then let Fred get on his way. The Commissioner has agreed to stay behind for a couple of minutes if you have any non-Presidents Cup's questions for him once we conclude. All right, with no further adieu, turn it over to Commissioner Finchem.  
 COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: Thank you, Laura. Thank everybody for being here. I appreciate you coming today and being here. We're delighted to be in Houston and back here again for another year of the Shell Houston Open. We look forward to the competition this week.  
 You know, as you suspected from the fact that Freddie is here and this big gold cup is sitting here, this is about The Presidents Cup. And before I make our announcement today, I would just like to make a few comments about The Presidents Cup.   
 It seems -- you know, it's been 18 years since -- or 16 years since we started The Presidents Cup. It's amazing to look back on the competitions that have been held starting with the one at Robert Trent Jones in 1994 in Washington.  
 We're obviously delighted with what's happened with the cup over the years, and I think I would point out four things that stand out to me. One is the quality of the competition over the years has been incredible. Secondly, that competition has been able to showcase international players from outside the United States and Europe to be able to have those players be able to compete in this team competition. It is terrific.  
 Thirdly, the charitable impact has been created by The Presidents Cup setting a record this past year at Harding Park of $4.2 million, $22 million since its inception, continues the tradition of the PGA Tour and charity. And finally the various demonstrations of sportsmanship and camaraderie during these matches have been notable, perhaps punctuated by the way the competition ended in a tie in South Africa in 2003.  
 Each year The Presidents Cup has been better than the last previous years. Harding Park was absolutely terrific. We had terrific fans. We had 600 members of the media from around the world.   
 When I went to Asia later in November, I think I mentioned this to Fred in Korea, in Japan, in China, that was the first thing that anybody wanted to discuss in every meeting I was in. The worldwide reaction of The Presidents Cup is the strongest it's ever been.   
 I think there are a variety of reasons for that, but certainly the leadership that was provided by our two captains last year, Freddie Couples and Greg Norman, had a lot to do with that. The enthusiasm they brought to the captaincies when they were designated back in 2008, the commitment they made to promote what The Presidents Cup is all about, I think played into giving us the best competition in the history of the cup.  
 So, with that, I think it's easy to conclude that as we head to Melbourne in 2011, it's a natural sequitur to have Greg Norman and Fred Couples continue. So today we're formally announcing that Fred, who is competing here this week in the Shell Houston Open, will serve again as captain of The Presidents Cup's team for the U.S., and Greg Norman, who will be captaining the international team.   
 Greg is joining us by telephone today from Europe, and I know that the folks in Australia are looking forward to the opportunity of hearing from him and asking him a few questions.  
 To Greg and Fred, I'd like to congratulate them for accepting these positions, it comes with some work and commitment, and thank them for their success in the presentation of the cup last year.  
 Before I turn it over to the captains for comment, let me just mention that at the 2011 cup, each of the captains will have two captain's assistants to designate, rather than one that has been in the past. I think the growth of the cup and the nature of the involvement between the captain and the various players who are preparing to be on the cup team argues for that adjustment. Greg and Fred will be announcing their captain's assistants at a later date, but we thought it was important that you got that information today.  
 Fred, if you'd like to make some comments, and then after Fred, we'll hear from Greg Norman before you have an opportunity to ask questions.  
 FRED COUPLES: First, I'm excited to be in Houston. I went to school here and played in The Shell almost every year, so it's been fun. Talked to Tim a few times about this opportunity again, and I think my year is just getting better and better by being able to be The Presidents Cup's captain in Australia with 12 guys that I look forward to representing our team and going over there and having a great time, which we did at Harding Park.  
 It's the same thing, Greg and I, we had such a great time working up to the event and then throughout the event. Obviously one team is going to win and one team is going to lose, but we still got through with a lot of fun, and it was just an entertaining week for me in all aspects of being in San Francisco, being a player four times in The Presidents Cup's, and finally having the duty of making sure all of our players were dressed properly and on time, like I usually am.   
 It was pretty interesting. They didn't know what to expect. I do know through Tim that a lot of them had a good time which made we feel very, very good. But basically, you know, I'm here to represent the guys, be as best a captain as I can.   
 And The Presidents Cup is a very special to me. I've had a couple winning shots there for our team before, and I played Greg in matches. We played in Australia the last time we were there. He beat us, or he beat Davis and I, he and his partner. So it will be a lot of fun.   
 I'll answer questions later, but for me, again, truly an honor, and I thank Tim for giving me another opportunity.  
 LAURA HILL: Thank you, Fred.   
 Greg, if you'd like do make some comments before we take questions.  
 GREG NORMAN: Yes, thanks Laura, Commissioner Finchem and everybody.   
 Freddie, welcome aboard, my friend. Looks like we got another couple years ahead of us. I want to reiterate what Freddie just mentioned. No question about it. It was an experience that I would never thought would be to the level of fun and expectation and just enjoyment that I got out of it.  
 The way my team came together as an international team was better than I ever expected. I had played on the international team in the past as a player. Sometimes you go in with a little trepidation of trying to rally a team around one international flag when you have multiple nations that are represented.   
 But I can tell you this, there was many times in the international locker room that I just absolutely had total respect and admiration for all the 12 guys that are on my team. It was incredible to see the camaraderie and the willingness and the spirit that was really driving very hard and deep within the guys to actually win The Presidents Cup. It's a true test of what the game of golf is all about.  
 In the spirit of the game, it lifts the guys' competitive spirit and edge to go out there and want to go win for the other 11 team members. It was very hard to put into words. The captain and former players, both Freddie and I have been. The experience we've actually felt over the last, oh, I guess since 1994 to where we are right now has just been a wonderful journey, and the next two years will be probably a little bit easier as far as I'm concerned than the last two years leading up to it because we know what to expect.   
 Our experience level, our expectations of ourselves, and our support team within the PGA Tour. I hope I keep the same support team because they were tremendous allies and assets for me leading up to the 2009 Presidents Cup.   
 2009 was the spirit of the event. Freddie said there's always a winner and loser. In individual sports, that's the way it goes in sports in general. The spirit that it was played in 2009 is again the standing testament to what the game of golf is about. There's not one team player bigger than the game or one team bigger than the game. The outcome was fantastic. Freddie did an absolutely tremendous job with captaining his team to the victory that he had. His top players played extremely well and it's a tremendous rally. I'm not saying my guys did not.  
 As I look forward, you know, my well of players is very deep. My -- I started watching the overseas performances already to see how my 12 guys did in the past from last year to where they are now.   
 Ernie Els has kicked off 2010 in a tremendous fashion. I keep encouraging everybody to keep performing and shooting for the ultimate goal of trying to win The Presidents Cup at Royal Melbourne.   
 Again, just touching on Royal Melbourne, I don't want to get too long with this. I'm a member of that golf club. It's one of my favorite golf clubs in the world. I'm sure Freddie knows it just as well as I do.   
 So as players taking a team down there, again, we can be a great asset to our team members. Royal Melbourne, the Australian people, they'll embrace The Presidents Cup like they did the last time down there, and hopefully the outcome in same.  
 LAURA HILL: Greg, thank you very much. Ask those on the phone if you have questions to go ahead and cue up. We'll take questions from the floor here first.  
  
  Q. Fred, I know you've already done this, have you gotten your arms around how far you've come as a golfer, not what you do on the course but now you represent this country. What that means to you and how far you have come.  
 FRED COUPLES: Well, I never really looked at that question or had that question asked, but I think when you're on these teams, you have captains, and my captains were Hale Irwin the first time and Arnold Palmer and Nicklaus. And you look at it, and you look up to these people, and some day you always want to be on those teams.   
 And then I guess it would be two and a half years ago, Tim came and asked me to be the captain of the team, and it was a little bit like shattering, you know, and are you kidding?  
 And so this last time, I was more hoping that he would ask again. I didn't really have any idea. I honestly thought that Greg was a lock because it was at Royal Melbourne and it's one of my top three favorite courses.   
 So I'm not really answering your question because I'm one of the guys. Last year I played the Tour. I saw these guys every single week. I'm not like 60 years old and not seeing them, and then all of a sudden, some legend like Jack Nicklaus where I come up and tell them something to do, I them whatever they needed, whatever they wanted, whatever parings they wanted. And I really had four guys, and I had great help from Andy Pazder throughout the year getting ready for it.   
 Now I am definitely ready, and I look forward to it the exact thing with a lot of anticipation, but it was truly way more fun than playing golf at Harding Park, way more fun for me. I can't speak for any other person that's ever captained the team, but to have Tiger Woods all the way down to Lucas Glover and the other ten guys, to watch them for three practice rounds and then get ready for the event and then team up was just -- I like doing that.   
 I watch all sports. I enjoy all sports, but to watch the 12 guys play and practice and have fun was truly amazing to go me.  
  
  Q. So for all the honors that you've won in your career, where does this one stack up as an honor?  
 FRED COUPLES: The No. 1 honor would be winning Augusta. This would be second. No doubt.  
  
  Q. You said it was a shattering. Why shattering?  
 FRED COUPLES: Well, I think for one, there were a lot of people Tim could have asked. And I thought I had done something wrong and, you know, I need to talk to you. It's not a funny story, but I think I dodged him the first day. And then I said, you know, my back is not feeling good, can I meet you on the range?   
 Sure enough, at L.A. he walked down the hill, which is tough enough to get back up and down it. He said, I have to ask you a question. Would you like to be captain of The Presidents Cup team? There were both sides. I thought maybe I did something I didn't know. Then that question he said, think about it.   
 And so as an idiot, I said, okay, I'll think about it. I should have said yeah right at the time, yeah, count me in. But it's just one of those things you aren't really expecting.   
 For me as a golfer, you know, it would be like winning a tournament on Thursday, which doesn't happen. For me to be picked for the Presidents Cup at that time was a little bit eerie. It's not now.   
 I know Greg and I had a blast doing it, and as he said a minute ago, we both know what to look forward to and we have great people helping us. I know his team, and Andy is right over here, who got me through the year and a half or even longer. And the PGA Tour does a phenomenal job with everybody.   
 And as Tim said, at Harding Park it was a huge success. The golf course was phenomenal. Like I said a minute ago, Royal Melbourne is in my top three. So I can't wait to get -- it's a long time from now, but I can't wait to get down there.  
  
  Q. Fred, what did you learn from '98? It was the only bad performance in American Presidents Cup history. What did you learn there to avoid this time to make sure you had a better performance?  
 FRED COUPLES: I think one thing we all knew, and I want to get it right, I want to think it was almost -- was it in December, which a lot of the Australians and New Zealanders and South Africans play I think in their Sunshine Tour or whatever. They were playing a lot at that time, whereas our guys had fought it out from Tour Championship, and I went down to play in a tournament the week before, and I think John Houston was in it, also.   
 But nothing -- we just probably weren't ready. Guys weren't playing as much. That's what I remember. I mean, again, for me, I think my year ended -- I may have played in the Shark shoot-out. Greg would remember that. And then we went down there, and I didn't play very well, either.  
 I just -- it's a tough trip. We'll have to be ready. I'm not sure when we'll go, but --  
 COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: Week before Thanksgiving.  
 FRED COUPLES: I mean, as far as how early we'll go. I know it's November --  
 COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: Mid-November.  
 FRED COUPLES: Mid-November.   
 We don't want to get in there Monday, but I'm sure guys will be traveling and getting in there. They're all world travelers now.   
 They absolutely pounded us. We were never in the thing, which was no fun.  
  
  Q. Will you be talking to Tiger soon to try to get a commitment from him?  
 FRED COUPLES: A commitment from him? I'm sure that will probably happen. I hope.  
  
  Q. Fred, could you talk about obviously going in. You said you didn't really know what to expect, and now you've learned a lot from that. Can you talk about how you might do things a little differently, if at all, going into this next one.   
 And, Greg, since you're on, if you could comment on that too at some point.  
 FRED COUPLES: You want me to go first and keep talking?   
 Well, that's a great question. The most nerve-racking parts about The Presidents Cup were really the speeches. You know, the players played phenomenal.   
 As Greg said, my top players I believe lost maybe two matches or however -- Tiger went 5-0. Stricker went 4-1. Mickelson went 4-0-1. Those would be my best three players. They carried the team. Like any other sport, you've got to have your best players play well.   
 I'm positive they'll be on my team next time, which is a great start. And I'm sure I'll have the same people on the team or very close to it.  
 So that will be the easiest part. What will be -- the toughest thing is just the anxiety of getting down there and making sure that you cross all the T's and dot the I's and make sure you're doing everything possible for your players.   
 It's a lot easier to do this in the States, but I know we'll be staying at phenomenal facilities down there. The golf course is great. And as Greg and I were talking the other day, there may be up to 50,000 people watching, and that's a lot of fun. That's truly amazing. And a lot of them will be on their side, a lot will be on ours, but I think just the feel of it -- The Presidents Cup is a very easy event to play in and to captain. I will say that.   
 There's a lot of pressure. Everyone wants to win, but the Tour does such a great job. It's just a very easy and fun event.  
 LAURA HILL: Greg, a response from you?  
 GREG NORMAN: Well, I didn't hear the question. I can't hear any of the questions coming across the line.  
  
  Q. Greg, the question was how will you do things differently this time after the experience of last time?  
 GREG NORMAN: Pretty much the same. The only thing that I would even consider being different is the time schedule leading up to the event. As Freddie said, it's in Australia. I've got a lot of experience going back and forth to Australia. Completely agree with Freddie. We're all world travelers. Jet lag is jet lag. There's no secret on how to get over it. You got to make sure you get down there and be prepared. It's going to be a little bit easier on me because of the system and the set-up down in Australia. I've been to Melbourne a lot.   
 It's one of my favorite cities in the world. So I know all the set-up there and how to get around it, understanding the traffic and the problems getting from the hotel, which I'm assuming the hotel is going to be the one I'm thinking of.  
 So nothing different. The hardest part for me leading up to 2009, the last month and a half is really the final two picks. There's a bit of a grind. I had a huge amount of great players to consider, and to whittle it down to the ones I had to was a tough decision.   
 So it's not going to be any different going into 2011. Look forward to it as I get to know the players more on a global basis, because I follow it. The final six months, you really do bear down a little bit more and watch what the players are doing.   
 Like Freddie said, it's very simple and easy if you get it done early enough and not leave yourself boxed in the corner making late decisions. There's really no pressure on you to get anything done.  
 LAURA HILL: Any questions here? We'll go ahead and take one or two questions from the phone, please. Our first question.  
  
  Q. Commissioner Finchem still on the line or still there?  
 COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: Yes.  
  
  Q. Tim, I'm just curious, I looked at the bottom of the release. It mentioned that you have Citi as a first ever partner The Presidents Cup. I just wanted to ask you why have a commercial partner for the first time, what it will do for you, and what Citi will get out of this.  
 COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: Well, it has to do like a normal sponsorship. Doesn't affect the title. They participate in the telecast, they provide support to the staging of the event, and they provide support to the promotion of the event in this case, globally.   
 We wanted a global partner that would help promote to the various aspects of the globe where there is interest in the Presidents Cup, and that's what they'll be doing.  
  
  Q. Will this help with charity donors?  
 COMMISSIONER FINCHEM: Any kind of sponsorship eventually helps grow the charitable bottom line, sure.  
 LAURA HILL: Any other questions here from the floor?  
  
  Q. Greg, I wanted to ask you, do you think you need to win this time to establish The Presidents Cup on a similar level to the Ryder Cup? And if so, how do you think you can take advantage of home field advantage like last time?   
 GREG NORMAN: If you won every time you went out there, the next time you have to win it again. Whether you're losing all the time or winning all the time, I think what's happened in the past has happened.   
 The players will be different players to some degree. The venue in a different venue. The atmosphere is different. You have to approach it as a totally brand new event. Don't get hung up on the fact that our strike rate is not as successful as we would like it to be as players and as a captain. And so lead going into Australia, it's a little bit different set-up.   
 You have to travel. My guys might even be down there. A percentage of players would have been in Australia playing probably beforehand. So that they're adapting to the time change a little bit better.   
 The Australian environment is different than anywhere else. You get the Australia flies are coming in their eyes and ears when they hit a shot. It will be very distracting. What the heck are these little black things? I hope the wind blows out of the north and switches to the south, and 20 minutes later goes from 30 to 15.   
 Those are the type of things that some of my players and definitely myself know exactly what to expect. Freddie has been there before. He knows what the flies are. I'm sure a few of them have gone in his mouth when he walks down the fairway.   
 So, you know, my guys are just more experienced. I know they're very jacked up about wanting to win in 2009. I know they were very down and out when they didn't. And that's a great barometer for me.   
 You know, you can only do your best, and some other players are going to play better than you at given times. We got beaten by some excellent golf. Our players played great golf. My players played great golf. They got beat.   
 So you just got to keep that enthusiasm high and make sure they keep the determination wanting to win a priority.  
 LAURA HILL: Okay. If there are no further Presidents Cup questions, I know some of the media here have questions for Fred specifically about the Shell Houston Open.   
 And we'll say thank you for joining us, Greg, and you can sign off and we'll talk to you soon.  
 GREG NORMAN: Thanks, everybody.  
  
  Q. Fred, what is it like coming in here after the remarkable success you had on the championship to, the way things have gone for you there.   
 FRED COUPLES: I always look forward to coming to Houston. It's my last Tour win. I had two great wins here besides this course. The champion Tour has been a lot of fun, obviously. I've been playing better than maybe I've ever played, and that's driving and putting which, you know, you don't shoot under par unless you're putting well, and I've been putting extremely well.   
 When I come back to Houston, you know, this is a little bit of preparation for Augusta, and I played really well here the last two years, and I've gone to Augusta and missed the cut both times by a shot.  
 So I'm kind of hoping that maybe I just play mediocre here and get it over with and go play well up there. That's not the game plan. That's being a smart-aleck.  
 It's just great. People are -- huge crowds here. Shell has been a sponsor forever, and going to school here is the most important thing for me in coming back.  
 The Champions Tour, winning three times, playing well gives me a lot of encouragement coming here for sure. I've only got maybe three, four more Tour events to play in. And I played well at L.A. I played very well at Phoenix. And I'm hoping to play well here, too.  
  
  Q. Fred, since you've experienced both tours and a lot of people think well, Fred won on the Champions Tour, how difficult is that? You didn't know either before you got out there, can you talk about the competition, the courses, and how difficult it actually is to win out there?  
 FRED COUPLES: Well, to be perfectly honest, when I first won at Naples, I hadn't won in so long that at Hualalai I was very relaxed. I think sometimes, at least for me, I was going up against Tom Watson, and it's never the thought, well, geez, if I lose, I'm losing to Tom Watson who is one of my best friends. It's just his style of play. You know what to expect.  
 When you come on the PGA Tour, you know, I don't know a lot of their games that well, and when I get paired with them on Sunday, if it's someone that hits it 330 yards and putts like a mad man, you know, you kind of look at that, and it kind of shakes you up a little bit.  
 For instance, on Sunday playing with Nick Price and Corey, it was a no-brainer on Saturday night. I knew Corey was going to play well because of his short game and way he hits the ball. I knew Nick Price was going to play well because he hits the ball so pure. When we went out there, that's what happened. Corey made a 40-footer on 2. He holed a 50-yard sand wedge for eagle on 6. He made a 30-footer for birdie on 9. You expect that.  
 As far as the golf courses themselves, that was a very, very good course. Just set up for the older guys. We did not play all the back tees. There was not much wind, which that course from previous years, they were telling me usually blows 20, 30 miles an hour. That's why the scores were so low.   
 But, you know, the list of players is pretty remarkable when you go there. And the talent. Jay Haas and Curtis have always told me, you'd be surprised how great some of these guys play that I don't know. Dana Quigley, was winning a lot. I never even really seen Dana Quigley play.   
 Mike Goodes is another name that plays well every week. They're solid players. For me to be quite honest, I'm the youngest guy out there. I played well on the Tour last year. Did I think I was going to win three times and finish second? No. Did I think I was going to do well? Of course, because I play well in the PGA Tour. I should be able to go out there and play well. It's just been more than I ever expected.  
 But I must say that when you start making putts, it becomes easier. And for a long time, the putting on here became a problem because as I got older, I felt more pressure to play well and it all went into putting. That's where you win and lose in this game.   
 But for me, I got mediocre because I put so much pressure on myself. I always hit the ball pretty well. Now out there, it's coming the other way where I'm starting to putt better. Why? I don't know. I'm more relaxed. It's just weird.   
 So this week, I'm just seeing if my body turns around because I'm out here, and I know the golf is going to be stronger but not to a score. I mean, I don't know what the Tour would have shot if they went there. I shot 21-under. I don't think I had could have shot another shot under par, but I won and I played extremely well.   
 When you come here on the PGA Tour, it's the same. You have to play -- if you shoot 71 on the Champions Tour in the first round, you're pretty much done. On the PGA Tour, you know, you're in the same boat, because Friday night you're going to look at the leaderboard and there's going to be guys 6-under, 6-under, 5-under, and then they just keep that path.   
 So it's a performance, and it's your style of game. And for me, I've driven it extremely well and putted well. And for my game, that's a good combination, if that makes any sense.  
  
  Q. Fred, number of good judges are saying that you've got a live chance next week. Do you believe that yourself? Is that realistic?  
 FRED COUPLES: Sure. You know, I played very well the last couple of years, and I know the course. As I said, Royal Melbourne is in my Top-3. Augusta is No. 1. I always expect to play well there.   
 It wasn't that long ago where I had a shot at winning. But this is not a big week for me to come here and finish fifth or third or tenth or whatever. It's a big week for me to feel like I can step into a PGA Tour event and feel like I did at Cap Cana.  
 I must say at Phoenix I did that. I played very well at Phoenix. I bogeyed the last hole, I was in eighth place. I slipped down to 14th, but that's a great finish for me. To win out here would be extremely difficult.   
 At Augusta, I think I have a better shot.  
  
  Q. Did you ever think you would feel like that again? Did you ever feel that you were done at Augusta?  
 FRED COUPLES: Well, I mean -- good question. The time -- no, because I was close the last couple of years. I wasn't shooting 75s and 6s and missing the cut by a bunch. I made the cut so many times and finished well, and my goal is never just to go there and make the cut. It's to go there and play extremely well.   
 So, you know, we'll see this year. But I think if I don't play well and I've got another year -- as long as I can drive it like I am and still have length, you know, and knowledge of that place, I think I can be a factor. You never know but -- I don't think I'm done with the place yet.  
 LAURA HILL: I think we have two final questions from the phone line, and then we'll wrap up.  
  
  Q. Hey, Fred, just a Masters follow-up question. I can't recall a time where going into the Masters a Champions Tour player has been mentioned as a -- one of the favorites. We have that this year with you. I just wanted to get how you frame it and how realistic you think your chances of winning are.  
 FRED COUPLES: I'm one of the favorites, huh? That's really good news. You know, whether I am or whether I'm not, when I go to a tournament, I always feel like I'm going to play well. That certainly is the case for probably every player.   
 I've played at Augusta 25 years, I think, or 26 years. And when I go in there, I get very jacked up. You know, there have been times where I finished eighth or seventh or tenth but been disappointed because I played much better than that.   
 In the last couple of years, I say it, I played -- it's a much harder course. And I played very, very well, but I just wasn't quite good enough on several holes to get into contention.   
 And at Augusta that doesn't take much. It doesn't take 66s and 67s. It takes 70s and 71s. I'm very capable of shooting that.  
 So I'm not going in there as one of the favorites, but I'm going into my favorite place and playing well. And if I can get out there and go Thursday and Friday, you know, then -- with this confidence, I should be able to play well Saturday and Sunday.   
 But, you know, every tournament, Thursday is a big day, and you got to get by Thursday to get moving. And these scores on the Champions Tour, they're crazy to me, too. But I've been putting so well that it seems like I'm birdieing every other hole.   
 That's not going to happen at Houston. So I need to be careful of my mind thought of saying, geez, I'm not 4-under par after ten holes, but how I'm hitting it. That's the most important thing to me. I want to continue to hit the ball well and make some putts.  
 LAURA HILL: One more from the phone.  
  
  Q. Fred, we haven't be been able to hear from the questions there. So I'm hoping I'm not repeating one. But I'm more curious of how the success on the Champions Tour will carry over to Augusta in your mind? Do you have to qualify like, okay, look, I'm playing and it's a Champions Tour. Do you feel like, I'm on a hot streak?   
 FRED COUPLES: Well, you are correct, that question has been asked, but I'm going to answer it this way. How about the way I'm been playing on the Champions Tour, it's going to affect me since we're at the Shell Houston Open.   
 Augusta is a ways from now. I can hurt myself. I can start driving the ball poorly. Right now I'm going to go out to play in the Pro-Am here. I'm going to hope to continue to pay attention to what I'm doing and play well here.   
 And then getting to your question, to get to Augusta, I'm going to play couple practices rounds and I'm probably going to not wear myself out and then get to the tournament and all that -- anytime you're winning, it certainly helps. And I'm fading out on the regular Tour a little bit, but this is a great opportunity for me because I won the last three times I played on the Champions Tour.   
 But as I said earlier, the Phoenix Open was a huge boost, too, because I played very, very well. And to me, winning is great, but if I'm going play on the PGA Tour, I still want to play well. I don't want to just come out -- because I went school in Houston, show up, even those we're here for the Presidents Cup also, and just go through the motions.   
 If you play 25 times a year, some weeks you're not going to feel like playing and you're going to go through the motions. But I'm well past that, and winning is a lot of fun, and so far this year has been a lot of fun.  
 LAURA HILL: Thank y'all or joining us on the phone and in the room. Congratulations to you, Fred. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT