U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 3, 2008
Greg Norman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GREG NORMAN: You know, you really couldn't get at any of the pin positions because you didn't know whether the ball was going to bounce hard or stop hard and spin back off the green, which happened to me a couple times this week, so it was just hard for me to get at it.

 Q. Your experience in majors, probably a common theme, anyway? 
 GREG NORMAN: No, not golf courses being inconsistent where the greens are soft and firm, soft and firm. I think in general terms, I think all 18 holes are fairly consistent. Some might be a little bit firmer than others. 
 Like I said, it was an awkward week for me. 

 Q. The last three weeks, three majors, top fives in each major, what's that been like for you?
 GREG NORMAN: It's been good, but I'm frustrated. I really felt my game was there. I really felt like I hit some quality shots in the last three weeks, and, you know, we can all say the golfing gods aren't on your side when you don't win. And that's how it felt to me; sometimes the golfing gods weren't on my side, for the things that happened like on 9 today, back-to-back, the situation that happened, was tough, really tough. 

 Q. Have you ever played that well coming in a three-week stretch; has it wetted your appetite a little bit? 
 GREG NORMAN: You won't see me until December. 

 Q. Different last three weeks than any other playing tournament golf? 
 GREG NORMAN: Yeah, otherwise I enjoy playing tournament golf. I'm a competitor and like to finish the best I can, and if you can't win, you want to finish second; and if you want to finish second, you want to finish third. I push myself that way. I really enjoy playing golf, but at the same time I get very frustrated when you feel like you've done well and results are not what you expect them to be. 

 Q. More mental fatigue than physical?
 GREG NORMAN: No, I'm not mentally tired or physically tired. I just played three weeks in a row and didn't schedule any more after this. 

 Q. Do you think the pin placements and course condition would be most tougher or unfair out of any major you've ever played? 
 GREG NORMAN: No, no, not at all. We've played tougher British Open conditions. The four days at the British Open this year were probably the four toughest days I've ever played golf in day after day after day; in fact, it was all six days, including the practice rounds were the same as what the tournament was. 
 This was tough, but I wouldn't put it in the Top-10. The golf course was just awkward. It was just inconsistent. I've said that a couple of times now, and the inconsistencies are obviously reflected by how the guys are playing today, too. 

 Q. Are we going to see you again, or you're not even going to worry about that? 
 GREG NORMAN: You'll definitely see me at the Merrill Lynch Shark Shootout, that's for sure. Nothing before that. I've not scheduled anything before that.

 Q. The ruling on hole No. 9? 
 GREG NORMAN: Well, I had to get relief and there was a drop zone and the nearest point of relief was another point of location and the USGA had to figure it out and they had to get another person in to get the final ruling and it was as simple as that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT