ROSE BOWL GAME PRESENTED BY VIZIO: OREGON v WISCONSIN
December 28, 2011
Kevin Zeitler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about the running game, how it's progressed and how it's been, the things that have worked so well? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   Our running game, it's pretty good this year I think.   We had a lot of success with Montee this year.   Like, I don't know, a lot of people said we had a rough start I guess, so I think a lot of people consider us having a rougher start in the beginning of the year. 
But that's just the new line, like getting to work with each other well, trying to get used‑‑ this early in the season, everyone is rusty and rough and nothing ever clicks right away.   Obviously we got it going near the end. 

Q.   Was it sort of a team goal, or were you all sort of following Montee's progress, the Heisman talk? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   As far as Heisman talk, like I don't think that really came up for him until like really close to the end of the season.   But it was obviously like really cool, because like a lot of people didn't even realize like the numbers were that significant I guess. 
You know, we knew he was scoring a lot and we kept winning, so like winning was the main goal obviously.   I was like, I think he like, on ESPN was here and he's so close to the record, it's really cool and that's like, that's not the focus but you do feel the pride to get him in no matter what.

Q.   What did you see different from him, from Montee this year? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   Skinnier, get past the safety if he had a one‑on‑one.   You know, he just played very hard.   He played very hard like down the stretch last year, and he was very successful and he just continued‑‑ the success just continued right throughout the year. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   That was back in high school, freshman year, USC against Oklahoma that year in the Orange Bowl for the National Championship.   It was weird, like I don't know, I was just watching like‑‑ you know how just all the kids say when they are little, I want to play at Wisconsin, I play college football.   But the statistics show that doesn't happen very often.   And freshman year of high school, didn't really care much in a way.   I was just like going through it, having fun, trying to fit in and everything. 
I saw like‑‑ I remember them do a special on Oklahoma, and a chart pop‑up with sizes, all 320 or something like that all 6‑4.   I'm 6‑4, 230 at the time so I'm kind of small.   Kind of like, I said I wanted to do‑‑ makes you realize, like, oh, crap.   I'm kind of like behind the 8‑ball, because I'm going 230 and these guys are 320, how am I going to catch up.   I just want to watch the game and you know, I remember USC destroying, absolutely destroying them.   I don't know, it just clicked I guess.   It was just very impressive and kind of made me want to be part of a situation like that you know. 
So just a trip I guess, to start off my training. 

Q.   I think Peter said things like that‑‑ what do you weigh now? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   I'm about 320 right now.   I was 270 at the end of the freshman year.   That was a good weight but I had to get the weight up and rebuilt it over the next year and it was a solid 280. 

Q.   What did you do to gain 40 pounds so quickly? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   It was a mix.   Just the lifting, like protein shakes, that added some.   I ate a ton whenever I could, you know.   I mean, it was like‑‑ I think it was just because I added so fast.   Also just I wasn't used to the weight yet but then I did wrestling the next year and trained and reformed it and I was like good I guess.

Q.   For your sophomore year? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   Yes, because after sophomore year, that's by the time going into summer, I was actually pretty ripped. 
Obviously Wisconsin, great coach.   Obviously it was the best decision for him and his family, and you respect that and you have to understand that he has to look out for him and his family.   Pittsburgh, I guess is going to be very good in the near future, if it isn't already.   I have a feeling they are going to have one heck of a front side there soon. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   Actually Coach B spilled the beans to us and then when we got here, the Rose Bowl, he finally talked to us about it and he was like, you know, he gave us, that was the best decision for him at this time and all that. 

Q.   So before you came in‑‑
KEVIN ZEITLER:   Right before, and we were all joking, like, well, if he's going, he's going to do this, he's going to do that, there's a lot of jokes around.   But you know, it is what it is. 

Q.   Are there any similarities to the challenge you face this week? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   The biggest thing is they are quick, they can do a quick move, a quick shed, they can duck under, jump around.

Q.   Linemen? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   I'm talking about everyone, like their linebackers included, too.   That's always a challenge when you have people that can do that.   It not going to be easy, the guy is going to try to run into you.   That's easy.   That's fun.   It ’s not going to be easy when they are duking and actually being proactive.   So they are very good at what they do, and I don't know if it will necessarily be linear sped like a lot of people talk about, it will be the sport‑‑ so that will be the biggest challenge. 

Q.   What separates‑‑
KEVIN ZEITLER:   He has a desire no matter what the extra yardage is to get into the end zone.   He has the power to break away like a Trent Richardson.   He's more like the NFL, like he can break away or break through the tackle and get the yards after contact. 

Q.   He does have the power‑‑
KEVIN ZEITLER:   Oh, yeah, he does have that element to him, which is a very nice change up.   Turnovers always hurts a team, and the fact that he has a record of not fumbling, that shows he's helping the team quite a bit. 

Q.   First a lot of people are saying that you guys resemble Stanford; would you agree with that comparison?
KEVIN ZEITLER:   We've watched Stanford a couple of times, like when we played Oregon State ‑‑ the first game we put on was Stanford this year.   They do have a power run game like us and there are a lot of similarities, they have got very good linemen there, too.   It's always interesting to see how, when you know you have to players going against the defense like how they do. 
And I would say as far as the line, I would say it's a fair comparison.

Q.   You guys are considerably bigger than them in terms of average size on the line.   They are pretty big but you have like three more inches. 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   That's cool. 

Q.   But you still think‑‑
KEVIN ZEITLER:   I think it's a very good comparison.   They are very good at what they do.   It's pretty impressive actually to see what Stanford does on their line.   We are going to hopefully be able to play well. 

Q.   So they asked Russell‑‑ curious what your answer was, have you seen Oregon played or watched them play through the season?
KEVIN ZEITLER:   I actually have.   They played a lot of night games.   They were on a lot at night, so being home a lot of times I would turn it on if they were on. 

Q.   What's your impression? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   They are very good, they are very fast.   They are better on defense than a lot of people think. 

Q.   Is that something you observed just when you watched it? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   Yeah, they shut down a lot of it.   They shut done opponents like they did‑‑ their defense did good things against Stanford, too.   And obviously when that happens, you know the defense is pretty good. 

Q.   As a college football fan, do you find it fun to watch when you watch early in the season? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   It's interesting because it's a different type of offense, and seeing them have success, it's always fun. 

Q.   Keith was telling us‑‑ with the coach, weird situation, told you‑‑
KEVIN ZEITLER:   You know, like we were sitting there and we were always wondering if he would leave because he's good friends with Coach Chryst but you never know.   There was all the rumors happening of who is going to go where and all that. 
But yeah, Coach spilled the beans, like Coach said, he wanted to be the first one to tell us.   He told us right before when we got here.   We respect it, he said it was the best decision for him and his family.   You know, it is what it is and I hope he has success and I feel like Pittsburgh will be pretty good in the near future. 

Q.   How responsible is he‑‑
KEVIN ZEITLER:   Very.   He breaks you down and builds a mentality that he wants you to have.   He's very big on technique.   I think we work on technique more than anyone in the country and he's going to be very‑‑ he's very, very picky about it.   He's going to make sure that you do it the right way and I think that really adds up in the long run. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   A lot of them‑‑ none that I could probably tell. 

Q.   Talking about the beginning of meetings‑‑
KEVIN ZEITLER:   He rants and raves a lot.   Let's just go with the ranting and raving. 

Q.   Is he one of the guys that pushes you a little farther than you realized you could go? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   I think he makes you think you're terrible if you're good.   You think you might be in a good place but he'll make you realize you're not even close.   It's a good thing, that's a real good thing.   He is going to keep you going.   He's had four guys drafted in two or three years.   Yeah, four guys, plus like four all Americans or second‑string.   Pretty awesome. 

Q.   Do you think there's a natural respect there as a former player? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   I don't know.   It could.   It will be interesting to see.   Was he an All‑American?   He knows the position well.   He's very detail‑oriented, too.   I'm sure he'll get through to the players. 

Q.   He understands what you guys are going through, as well.   You guys have been through it all. 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   I think so.   He's obviously played the position and I feel he'll know how to get it done.   I think he has a very big amount of pride since it's his position and he obviously wants to have success. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   A little rusty but it was good. 

Q.   Inaudible. 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   We all came here with the intention that we have to go play a Bowl game.   Other stuff is great, but really what's the point if we didn't come here to play, you know. 

Q.   And a lot of guys have talked how‑‑ do you think there's a different mind‑set? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   Well, I wasn't overwhelmed, so hopefully those other players weren't.   I saw it all last year, took the tour after the Rose Bowl last year, so I've seen everything.   It's just familiar since we have been here already. 

Q.   So it wasn't that big of a deal? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   I didn't do much, anyway.   Just glad to be done.   Technically a college dropout I guess.   Guess I have to come back sometime and finish up.

Q.   How many more classes do you have? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   Five I think.   It's one semester.   Some time I'll get my degree.

Q.   Do you just have general requirement stuff?
KEVIN ZEITLER:   It's all mandatory class stuff, just to get like certain areas filled. 

Q.   Are you looking forward to the Senior Bowl?
KEVIN ZEITLER:   Senior Bowl, I got invited.   It's a great opportunity and hopefully I do well there and the biggest thing is hopefully improving draft stock when that time comes. 

Q.   Have you thought about what the next phase of your career will be?   What are your thoughts or your impressions? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   As far as that, pure business and whatever I decide to do, obviously make sure I do it successfully I guess, take advantage of every opportunity I can, and hopefully everything works out. 

Q.   Do you talk to coaches‑‑ I know Coach‑‑ has he talked to you or Russell or Nick to give you guys an idea what to expect? 
KEVIN ZEITLER:   I think he did talk to me about some stuff.   I haven't got any concrete answers or paperwork.   A little bit. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT