U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
April 30, 2018
Erica Shepherd
Megan Furtney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys had a pretty tight match today.  They gave you a battle.
ERICA SHEPHERD: Yeah, you know, we were up the whole time, so it was never too like jittery close, but they kept it close, and then we didn't give them too many shots.  We always had birdie or par putts, so a pretty relaxed day.
Q. Getting up early, is that a key factor in a four-ball versus maybe just by yourself in a match?  Is it a little different dynamic?
MEGAN FURTNEY: I'd say that it's really important because obviously coming out of the gate, like today we came out with a couple birdies, so it's just really important just to ease yourself into it, I think, and I think it's a big deal in the four-ball format to have a partner because able to not only have one person playing the hole but two, so it helps a lot.
Q. Sometimes it can be difficult to make comebacks when you're up in four-ball because you're playing two people versus one.  One person sometimes -- there's a chance, but it seems like it's much more difficult to get 3- or 4-up in a match in this format.
ERICA SHEPHERD: Honestly, if we would have been 2-down at the start, I wouldn't have been worried.
Q. That confident?  You've obviously been through the war of a Girls' Junior Championship.  Is the experience factor helping you this week in this type of format?
ERICA SHEPHERD: Yeah, for sure.  I think the more match play experience you can have, every match you just get that much more experience, and so I think just being able to share that experience with her and for us to both be out there, I think, yeah, that match play experience helps.
Q. Was there any key moment in the match where you really felt like today was going to be the key?  Did you make a key putt anywhere?
MEGAN FURTNEY: I'd say I made about a 15-foot downhill putt on No. 2 for birdie to get us 2-up right away, and I think just from that point out, we were just hitting greens, and pretty much every time somebody had a good look for birdie, which helped a lot.  On the back side Erica made a lot of really good putts that kind of helped keep us in a good position going into the last couple holes.  On the last hole, too, she also made a really great par putt to finish the match.
Q. How often have you guys played together because you're not from the same state, obviously.
ERICA SHEPHERD: Yeah, we see each other a lot, but we aren't necessarily playing with each other every tournament, and then with her injury last year --
Q. You had, what, a pinky injury?
MEGAN FURTNEY: Yeah.  I cut the top.
Q. How did that happen?
MEGAN FURTNEY: It was with a chair, which is the weirdest thing ever.
Q. Like a home injury?
MEGAN FURTNEY: Yeah, I was just at home.  Just a freak accident, but I'm back now.
Q. How long were you out of golf for?
MEGAN FURTNEY: About four months, so yeah, it was throughout the whole summer season.
Q. You missed all of last summer then?
MEGAN FURTNEY: Mm-hmm.
Q. Do you have to make an adjustment with your grip or anything?
MEGAN FURTNEY: Nope, it's all good.
Q. No pain or anything?
MEGAN FURTNEY: Only if it gets really cold.  If it gets below 50 degrees, then I feel a little pain, but --
Q. But only in Chicago, right?
MEGAN FURTNEY: Yeah, exactly.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT