THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 19, 1998
Pia Nilsson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  How about your situation heading into tomorrow.
 
PIA NILSSON:  We just -- when I came off after some of the television interviews, they're all waiting for me in the locker room, all of the caddies and players.  We just talked about that.  We you said all along, on Sunday, every person need to focus on winning her match.  Every single player there can do that.  Our whole thing tomorrow would be to keep focusing all the energy on doing that and each player doing everything they can.  Just saying, I don't want -- to hear anything this evening or tomorrow morning about feeling sorry for ourselves or we're bad luck, we're not making putts.  Not one word.  Just want to focus and give everything we have tomorrow out there in every single match. 
 

Q.  How do you think comes to taking out the players in what order?
 
PIA NILSSON:  I've turned it in but I don't know if it's official yet.  So, yeah.  It's done. 
 

Q.  Can you talk about it?
 
PIA NILSSON:  I have it -- I'll tell you. 
 
Laura, Helen, Annika, Liselotte, Trish, Charlotta, Marie-Laure, Catrin, Alison, Catriona, Lisa, and Sophie.  So we're going off as strong as we can and then keeping it strong.  It was -- with the players, they were all, of course, disappointed.  But still, everybody is -- just feels they're giving it everything they can the whole time and never giving up.  Just sticking to every hole the whole week to do what they have.  And the putts, though, need to go into the hole and they haven't at the times we've needed them to go in.  And the Americans have been playing great and they're making the putts when they need to, just to congratulate them. 
 

Q.  Did it feel like the players were deflated after the last match? 
 
PIA NILSSON:  They were right there.  Now, in the locker room, though, we're going to do all we can and they were still talking to each other to refocus, definitely. 
 

Q.  Was it tough to tell three players they had the whole day off?
 
PIA NILSSON:  Yeah, it's never anything that is fun to do and -- right when I told them, though, that was -- they were fine about it.  Of course, with these players, all the 12 players want to play the whole time.  So it's never like when they're not playing -- it's good their so competitive.  I was telling them:  It's not that I don't think they can play really good, but all the information I had at the time, I still felt the other players would be the ones playing the best right now. 
 

Q.  Do you feel that you haven't performed as well as you thought or have the Americans played better?
 
PIA NILSSON:  Well, probably a combination. Because we normally should make a lot more putts than we have.  The Americans have been playing as good as I expected them to. 
 

Q.  Do you think Alfredsson, Neumann, Gustafson and Nilsmark -- one point so far over the first two days.  How surprising is to you and any explanation for why it would be with those players?
 
PIA NILSSON:  Well, with Sophie being a rookie and all that, I wouldn't say anything.  I haven't done any of that analysis yet.  So I have to go home -- every day, it's just total focus out there in the presence.  I haven't gone back.  Some of those, they've had great matches and their opponents have been playing even better.  I have to look at that more before I can give you a good answer. 
 

Q.  Do you expect Judy to put up the more experienced players first as well?
 
PIA NILSSON:  I would think so because for her trying to get points early must be an advantage, definitely.  But the question, like winning matches, talking to Annika this morning, in the foursomes, normally, if she plays stroke-play tournament and maybe she has a 71 or 72.  It's not very good.  But she knows the 72 in tournament, she can turn it around.  But in  this type of game, it's a lost match. 
 

Q.  Pia, what do you think of Laura's play so far?
 
PIA NILSSON:  Well, Laura -- because I still don't see as much of everybody as I want to.  But I feel she's brilliant.  Many of the times --  I feel a few times she can lose patience when things don't go her way and -- it might take a little while before she refocuses.  But I really feel her game is coming around and I like very much to see her out there. 
 

Q.  What do you think about her complaint of the 11th tee in the afternoon?
 
PIA NILSSON:  I went out and talked to her. What I told her, if she gets that mad, then the strategy has worked to get her off balance and the point is what's important.  She was very disappointed because she thought it was really taking her chance away, reaching it.  I can see that, but they put the line between the two tees, meaning they could use both of them.  So it's -- that's the way it goes.  Of course, there was a disadvantage, but I feel that way, the only thing we can do is accept it and play the hole as good as we can anyways. 
 

Q.  Do you feel like there was intent?
 
PIA NILSSON:  I wouldn't say that.  I have no basis of how they plan it. 
 

Q.  Over the first two days, who has been the most pleasant surprise for you?
 
PIA NILSSON:  All that.  I haven't sat back five minutes to think about it.  I have to -- maybe tomorrow morning since we tee off later, I can do it. But I must say, the team as a whole, both the players and the caddies, have been great to work with.  We've been tested, but they've been coming back and supporting each other and getting us back on thinking what we want to do.  Overall, I've been very happy with that. Still, I mean, it hasn't led to us winning a lot of the matches we want to. 
 
TIM MCNULTY:  Anymore questions?  Thank you. 
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT