NBA DRAFT
June 28, 2006
Marcus Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How do you feel about dropping, most people expected you to go higher, what are your emotions right now?   
 MARCUS WILLIAMS:  I'm just happy to be in the situation that I'm in.  What I came through last summer and to now, I think it's just a blessing.  I think me being here, playing behind one of my favorite point guards and watching him while he was in high school in St. Joe's, California, I just think it's a great situation.   
  
  Q.  And that's a positive, that you get to learn from the best, Jason Kidd, how does that feel?   
 MARCUS WILLIAMS:  That's great.  The things he does, I tried to pattern my game after him with the rebounding and passing and just making my teammates better and just playing behind him and learning behind him firsthand, it's great.   
  
  Q.  Besides playing with Jason Kidd, you're also going to get a chance to play with your teammate, Josh Boone, tell me how you feel about that?   
 MARCUS WILLIAMS:  Me and him being on the same team, it's crazy that that happened.  Like I said, everything happens for a reason.   
  
  Q.  They say the number isn't as important as the situation; you get into a situation for a playoff team that arguably is maybe one player away; are you that player?   
 MARCUS WILLIAMS:  Hopefully I can be that player.   
 You know, Jason Kidd is at the end of his career and I mean, maybe he can't play those minutes.  Who is to say he can and who can say he can't.  I just want to step in and contribute right away.   
  
  Q.  You got drafted in this first round, along with your teammates and all that, what does that say about that UConn team this year, even though you guys didn't make the Final Four, but the fact that all four of you guys got drafted in the first round of the NBA draft?   
 MARCUS WILLIAMS:  Most of the Coach's guys are not guys that's Top-10, top 20, All-American and I think the guys he's put out, he just sees talent.   
 I think it shows for itself, the coaching staff, him self, the things that he teaches us at school, I think he gets us ready for this level.  (Referring to Coach Calhoun).   
  
  Q.  Aside from playing with Jason now and learning from him, you're going to be playing with Vince Carter, can you talk about that and just how you feel about making passes to him and the other guys on that team.   
 MARCUS WILLIAMS:  You've also got Richard Jefferson.  That's kind of like throwing the two Rudy's.  (Laughter) I think that should be a lot of fun for me and a lot of excitement for the crowd.  And you've already got the excitement from Jason Kidd.   
 So maybe when he comes out, he won't lose anything.   
  
  Q.  Was it weird sitting out there being the only one left of the 15 that were invited?   
 MARCUS WILLIAMS:  What's that?   
  
  Q.  Was it weird being out there as the only one left of the ones that were invited?   
 MARCUS WILLIAMS:  It was weird, but, I mean, things happen.  Things happen.  I was prepared for it.   
 I told them, if I'm the last guy out there, so be it.   
  
  Q.  Would you call yourself maybe that diamond in the rough, every now and then a player goes late in the draft and all of a sudden he's the main player in the league?   
 MARCUS WILLIAMS:  I can't say that.  I haven't played a game yet.  But I think my mindset is to be that guy.  I want to step in, contribute, do whatever the team needs me to do.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT