ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2013
George Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your thoughts then about shooting 65 around the Old Course? 
GEORGE MURRAY:   Just delighted.   I'm really happy.   I'm just delighted to be playing to be honest because I got an invite.   Delighted just to be playing, and shoot 65 is even better. 

Q.   Given some of your memories here of third place finish, wasn't it? 
GEORGE MURRAY:   It was, aye, two years ago.   I really enjoy playing St. Andrews.   I mean, only live ten minutes down the road, so it's great.

Q.   How often do you play, seeing as you do only live so close. 
GEORGE MURRAY:   Just this week.   That's the truth.   I play Kingsbarns quite a lot because they let me on and stuff like that.   I never really play here.   I just practise at the driving range. 

Q.   You really got it going today, particularly on the back nine?
GEORGE MURRAY:   Had a wee run with the putter, everything seemed to be going in. It was great.

Q.   What was it?   Just the form on the greens that really clicked? 
GEORGE MURRAY:   Aye, definitely.   The greens, that's probably the best I've putted all year.   Struggling a little off the tee and my putter, so it was great to hole a few eventually.

Q.   Put this in context, because we haven't seen a lot of you across the year on the leaderboards. 
GEORGE MURRAY:   I don't think you've seen me on any leaderboards to be fair.   You never know, keep plugging away, hopefully shoot another couple of low ones and then hopefully be there on Sunday.

Q.   Do you feel that the game is in good shape?
GEORGE MURRAY:   Not really, no, but you never know.   You just need one shot to come and then you might feel it's in good shape.

Q.   It is a wonderful opportunity when you have got the invitation. 
GEORGE MURRAY:   Oh, aye, definitely, sleeping in your own he had about, eating in your own house, just makes a massive difference. 
It was a big relief getting in.   I was not getting in, but it was Alan Hogg at Kingsbarns who contacted me, and Peter German pushed for it, and owe him a big thanks.   One round like this gives you a bit of confidence, and hopefully going back to The Challenge Tour in a couple of weeks, gives me confidence to play better knowing that I'm playing well.

Q.   The fact that you did so well here, that must give you psychologically a boost, as well. 
GEORGE MURRAY:   I think I just like the place.   I stay in my own bed at night.   Have my own cooking, which isn't really that great‑‑ unless my mother‑in‑law cooks, that's all right.   You're comfortable.   It's easy, isn't it; the golf is easy, but life is easy when you're staying at home.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT