PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 13, 2012
George Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  GEORGE MURRAY:   I was very pleased obviously.   I played nicely.   Still didn't drive it as well as I would have liked to but I putted great.   I think I had 26 putts which must be a low in the last three months probably.

Q.   And that's with the greens getting harder and firmer. 
GEORGE MURRAY:   They will be tougher later on obviously with the wind and drying out, with more spike marks at that time. 

Q.   I presume it's the difference that's made all the difference, you started superbly and didn't enjoy the second day as much and now you're right up there again. 
GEORGE MURRAY:   I had to get up‑and‑down the last two holes, so it's good to be here actually.   After you reminded me the first day that I missed eight cuts in a row‑‑

Q.   Well, that's a great achievement, to knuckle down and make sure you're there for the weekend. 
GEORGE MURRAY:   Yeah, delighted to be playing obviously and hopefully I can play well again tomorrow.

Q.   Do you fancy your chances now?
GEORGE MURRAY:   Not really thought about it.   I wouldn't think of it.   I wouldn't dare.   I'll go down to the front, eat some sushi and have a couple of nice drinks. 

Q.   A nice place for doing that, isn't it, Portugal?
GEORGE MURRAY:   It is, it's very relaxing down in the marina, it's great.

Q.   Can you do that easily, switch your mind off from the golf?
GEORGE MURRAY:   I think I've learned to do it the last two or three years, just not even think about golf or anything until the next day. 

Q.   Does that help what you achieved last year at the Dunhill, knowing that things can just transform in one week?
GEORGE MURRAY:   It must have, because last year I was dead and buried pretty much the same as this year.   Just gives you a little bit of hope, doesn't it. 
I made a great birdie on 10 and played a great flop shot on 12 and then got to 3‑under and thought, well, let's see if we can go and make a few before we get finished.

Q.   Is that wind picking up? 
GEORGE MURRAY:   It looks like it's picked up every other day, hopefully it picks up today and it's flat calm tomorrow (laughing). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT