PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 11, 2012
George Murray
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You seemed to be putting well?
GEORGE MURRAY:   My birdies, I only holed one big putt for birdie‑‑ but 18‑‑

Q.   I know the green you missed on 16‑‑
GEORGE MURRAY:   I chose the wrong club, hit a wee 9‑iron and chip and run down with a putter and had a 12‑footer and left it three feet short.   

Q.   In the semi? 
GEORGE MURRAY:   It was just in the fringe, I thought I would just pop it on the green. 
On the 10th, I holed the 30‑footer.

Q.   That started the run of form. 
GEORGE MURRAY:   It did.   Next hole, 12 feet, left of the hole, it was good. 

Q.   How many putters have you used this year?
GEORGE MURRAY:   Oh, just that one has only played three tournaments.   That putter plays pretty much every week pretty much‑‑ the 12‑footer last week on the last at Kingsbarns to make the cut, one of the worst putts I've hit in my life, so that's the end of that one.   It had its run.

Q.   Did you throw it away?   Throw it into the sea?
GEORGE MURRAY:   I was close but I thought I might need it some day.   It's locked in the garage. 

             Q.Nice stretch of four birdies going into the back nine, how do you feel?
GEORGE MURRAY:   I feel good, happy with the way I played today.   Played nicely and holed out well which is key, because I have not been holing the short ones recently so good to hole them. That's the key, really, no matter where you stop the ball, you have to hole putts.   You won't shoot a good score without holing putts, that's for sure.

Q.   What's the strategy going to be going to the second round tomorrow, are you focussing on the cut or playing the round individually? 
GEORGE MURRAY:   The second one, just hit each shot and score as low as possible.   Not going to focus on the number.

Q.   I know you missed eight cuts coming into this week, so what have you found here in Portugal?
GEORGE MURRAY:   I really don't know.   I've played pretty poor but I played nicely last week, so took a bit of confidence with that, so hopefully I can continue hitting nice shots and putting well, that would be great.

Q.   Is it the sort of golf course where you can find of bit of confidence; how important do you feel that start was? 
GEORGE MURRAY:   It was pretty good.   A few loose shots early on, seemed to get a couple of nice breaks but only missed one green.   There's not a lot of rough out there, so I was able to hit the right ball and get away with it, which was nice. 

Q.   Last year, Dunhill, great week to secure your card for this year; you'll need something similar this time around. 
GEORGE MURRAY:   Unfortunately I find myself in the same situation, so hopefully I can do something at the next three events and get my card secured again, would be nice.

Q.   Must be absolutely delighted, doing exactly what you need to do.
GEORGE MURRAY:   I am, it's only a quarter of the way, but good start, kick on and hopefully have three more good rounds.

Q.   Everybody talks now Race to Dubai, but a bit to do, how important not to focus on the numbers and take it one shot, one round at a time?
GEORGE MURRAY:   If I was to look at that, I would be depressed I think.   So just leave it as it is and get on with it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT