INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 28, 2016
Thomas Bryant
Robert Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Nebraska - 87, Indiana - 83
Q.   How big was the poor start for you guys in terms of how the game turned out?
THOMAS BRYANT: It was big. We should have had better knowing like a competitive team like Nebraska coming into Assembly Hall, they're going to bring their best. We should have came out with a better start.
Q.   What do you attribute the slow start to and the stretch there in the second half where there was a bunch of turnovers? What do you feel happened?
ROBERT JOHNSON: I think it was a mindset thing and we didn't challenge enough shots, turned the ball over way too much – myself included. So those are just a couple of things.
Q.   Offensively, what were they doing that caused problems for your defense? Or was it more your defense?
ROBERT JOHNSON: Yeah, I think it's a lot of areas of improvement, when we go back and watch the film, that we definitely work to get fixed. And, like I said, we left a lot of shots unchallenged, and especially for some of our better shooters.
So you can't expect to win when you do things like that.
Q.   This is pretty obvious, but how concerning is 18 turnovers? And what can you guys do to cut that number back?
ROBERT JOHNSON: I think that it all comes down to making simple plays. When you're trying to win games, you can't have too many mental errors, especially 19. That's way too much.
I think it all comes down to making simple plays, guys being locked into that.
Q.   Coach has talked before about his best teams being player-driven instead of coach-driven. As two guys that have been through this, I guess what can you take from this moving forward, and kind of teach maybe some of the younger guys so this kind of thing doesn't happen again?
ROBERT JOHNSON: I think that the thing that you could take from it is it's going to be a war all the way through. Every game, no matter who you're playing, where you're playing, it's going to be a fistfight, especially, you know, if you don't come out right out of the gate and get after teams and let them hit you first, it's going to be tough.
So I think with this game, looking back, I think a lot of guys will be able to see just how tough it will be going forward.
Q.   Thomas, they had 16 offensive rebounds. What made them so effective?
THOMAS BRYANT: They were just a physical team out there crashing the glass. Some of the balls bounced their way then we started to be aggressive out there on the offensive and defensive end when it comes to rebounding.
Q.   Thomas, how frustrating is it that you had the 26 home-game winning streak and to lose at home like that?
THOMAS BRYANT: It's frustrating, but all we have to do is bounce back from it. We've just got to look at the film and look at key things that we can bring more to the table and help us as a team. One loss doesn't define us. We're going to keep building and keep getting better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT