INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 28, 2018
Robert Johnson
Juwan Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Purdue - 74, Indiana - 67   
 Q.  Juwan, you guys seemed to do an effective job; seemed like you were giving up a little bit to Haas, let him have his.  (Regarding protecting the perimeter.)  
JUWAN MORGAN: Yeah, going into the game we just knew that with the size disadvantage we knew that we couldn't panic.  We couldn't just foul them; didn't want to give them 3-point plays.   
We just knew that if we could just wall up between him and the basket and try to get as many as we can rebounded, and then we just tightened up as far as everywhere else.   
That's what we tried to do.   
 Q.  Just how tough was Edwards?  I think 13 points in the second half.  Was he creating matchup problems?  How was he getting more effective after halftime?  
ROBERT JOHNSON: I think just did a good job finding other ways to score.  I think we did a good job of limiting his perimeter shots and not giving him open looks that way, but I think he did a good job of finding out a way to score.   
 Q.  Robert, I think it was 65, 64; what was the key, the difference down the stretch?  
ROBERT JOHNSON: I think we just never got that one stop that we needed to try to make a run and get a 4- or 5-point lead.   
That's what it comes down to at the end of the game.   
 Q.  Rob, to play the way you did today in your final Purdue game, do you feel like you left it all out there to the a court?  
ROBERT JOHNSON: Yeah, I definitely do.  Disappointed that we weren't able to get the win.  I think we played well enough and hard enough as a team.   
But just disappointing, and at the end of the day we just got to try to find a way to get better and bounce back for the next one.   
 Q.  Last three minutes or so I think you had a turnover.  (Indiscernible.)  Did you get rushed?  What do you think happened there?  
ROBERT JOHNSON: Yeah, yeah.  I just think we didn't do a good job of executing.  That's a part of executing down the stretch.  You know, that's something that we have to get better at.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible.)  
JUWAN MORGAN: Yeah, it was definitely in the back of my mind.  A few tough calls, a few questionable ones I think.  But in the end, that's the game, and I had to be able to play smart, play without fouling.   
Even with those, I still think I did a pretty good job.  Freddie came in and gave us some tremendous minutes; Justin, too, just guarding the big guys.   
We just didn't get it done.   
 Q.  Rob, what was it like having Victor here?  Did you get a chance to talk to you guys before the game?  
ROBERT JOHNSON: Yeah, it's always great when legends like him come back and try to give us a word of encouragement.  He talked to us before the game.  It was definitely exciting.  It was something we really enjoyed.   
 Q.  Purdue is third in the country; been on top of the Big 10 all year.  Seeing them and then actually playing them, what's the most impressive thing?  
JUWAN MORGAN: Just the way they play off each other; really how they use their big guys.  They're just shooting the ball at a tremendous rate.  Just the way they play defense, they're really tight, connected to one another on that side of the ball.   
Just all clicks for them.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT