INDIANA UNIVERSITY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 18, 2017
Collin Hartman
Juwan Morgan
Robert Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








IPFW - 92, Indiana - 72
Q. What happened out there?
COLLIN HARTMAN: We didn't come out ready to play mentally.  We didn't do what we needed to do offensively or defensively.  Give them credit, they shot tremendously and played great defense.  We just didn't come out ready to play.
Q. The 18 turnovers tonight, did you feel that was a product of playing a second game in three days, fatigue, anything like that, or was it something else?
COLLIN HARTMAN: No, I just don't think that we were collectively as a team playing the way that we should, playing the way that we practice.  We weren't playing smart with the ball.  Kind of sometimes just running around, not getting on offense.  Just kind of being careless.
Q. For any of you guys, Collin said you weren't ready to play mentally.  How does something like that happen?
JUWAN MORGAN: We just didn't come out ready.  That's all there is to it.  18 turnovers is inexcusable.  They had 29 points off our turnovers.  That's something you can't let happen if you want to win games.
Q. How do you stop that from happening?  How do you stop that?  How do you make sure it doesn't happen again?
ROBERT JOHNSON: I think it starts with the older guys, making sure guys are ready to play.  We've been through it the most, so at the end of the day I think, if anybody, it will be up to us.
Q. (Question about three-pointers.)
COLLIN HARTMAN: A lot of them came just off turnovers, transition, over-helping, not running our defensive schemes, stuff like that.  When they see the first couple go in, as a shooter, it's hard to not miss after that.
Give them credit.  They shot the ball well.  We turned it over.  Didn't feel like we played what we practiced.
Q. Do you feel like sometimes it's not taking the confidence out of a team shooting the ball, maybe not just losing good shooters, but allowing them to get too comfortable behind the arc?
COLLIN HARTMAN: Definitely.  Like I said, if you let guys who are decent shooters get open looks all the time, things of that nature, I mean, the basket gets bigger.
Q. What did you talk about at halftime?
JUWAN MORGAN: Closing out, trying to run them off the line.  They ran a few plays three or four times in a row.  People were getting lost on defense.  Nobody was talking.
Like Collin said, as they could see a couple go in, the basket gets huge.  It's hard to miss.
Q. (Question regarding home losses.)
COLLIN HARTMAN: I don't think there's much to it.  I mean, we just have to understand as a team when you have 'Indiana' across your chest, it doesn't matter where we're playing or who we're playing, they're coming to win.  They want to win.  When we don't show up, don't play like we practice, it can be one of those nights.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT