CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2013
Jessica Shepley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jessica, tell me about your carrying the Canadian colors here the final two days of the tournament?   There are only two of you; is there a lot of pride out there in doing that? 
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Absolutely.   I think Sam and I played together the first two days, so we were excited to be out there and would have loved to have played a lot better than I did.   But it's golf and you don't always have it, but I was very proud to be out there on the weekend.

Q.   Looked more relaxed out there.   You had a bit more fun than yesterday? 
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, I had a lot of fun on the front side.   I hit it really well.   I wish I could have made a couple putts.   I had a lot of putts I could have made, so I think things could have been very different early on.   But I had a good time.   I played with a friend of mine, just the two of us, so it was good.

Q.   Have you just been savoring the moment, enjoying the moment type of thing? 
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   The crowds are always so wonderful.   Everyone's cheering and so happy for us to be out there, so just enjoying it and trying not to get too wrapped up in my own round and appreciate that there are a lot of people out there that have been supporting and following us.   But, yeah, it was nice to see.

Q.   What were your overall impressions of the tournament? 
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Wonderful as always.   CN has done a wonderful job.   We appreciate their support so much.   The golf course was fabulous as always.   The crowds were amazing.   Our food was so good.   Everything was first class as CN always provides, so it was nice.

Q.   Coming to the tournament and now coming out of the tournament, how have you changed?   I would think a crowd like that you could steady the nerves? 
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, I'm looking forward to Portland next week.   I hit it really well today.   So like I said, I gave myself a lot of chances, and I just kind of wheels fell off on the back side.   I think after missing that many you get frustrated, and I lost my head a little bit.   Yeah, playing in front of people, this many people and having your name shouted all day, it's definitely nice, and I think I'll definitely carry that on to next week.

Q.   Does this give a boost to Canadian girls golf, do you think?   Right now it's a struggle to get young girls into the game.   The performances that you and Samantha put on today and over the week, do you think that helps grow the game on the women's side? 
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   I hope so.   I think there are a lot of steps being taken.   Obviously, the amateur program in Canada has been taken care of for the last few years and that continues to grow.   Recently some advancements have been made for growth coming out of school, but I think there is still a huge gap.   Until that is kind of changed a little bit and we have a little bit more support for girls that are turning pro‑‑ like I don't know if everyone realizes how much it takes to be out here.   It's a huge financial burden.   So I think once that kind of gets taken care of, maybe we'll see a little bit more performance.   But I hope. 
So I hope that Canadians being out here and doing well, whether it's one of us or ten of us, I hope it gives girls the confidence to come out and try and know we've had a great role model in Lorie.   She didn't really start peaking until her early 30s.   So hopefully that combined with continual improvements, and we have some great ‑‑ Brooke Henderson and she is playing great, and Jen Kirby, there are a lot of girls. 
We just have to keep supporting them and understand that there are girls like me that are late 20s, early 30s that are still continuing to grow and improve and can't always look past them.   I'm here again as one of the only Canadians to make the cut, and I'm 30 this year.   I think I have a lot of growth still.   So hopefully the support continues, and we'll keep growing out here. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT