CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2013
Jessica Shepley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, you know, I got off to a rough start, and then I made a triple on the first hole and then I made a double, missed a ton of putts.   I just really didn't get anything going.   I hit a couple irons in the middle that I could have possibly capitalized on, but I didn't, so unfortunately it was just horrendous round of golf.

Q.   When you start off like that, does it kind of just play with your mind or how do you get that out of the way?
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, you know, I've had definitely rounds in my life that I've started like that, neutral rounds and really good rounds, so I tried not to let it bother me.   I played the next two holes really well, hit some great iron shots.   I wasn't too concerned, but when you give yourself some birdie chances and you don't make anything, it's tough to turn stuff around out there.   This golf course is playing tough, pins were tough.   When you can't control your ball flight and where you're hitting it, it's tough to get close to those pins.

Q.   One of two Canadians playing on the weekend.   Does that make it kind of special?
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   I mean, this is‑‑ I normally play well at the Canadian Open and play well in my home country, so I wasn't surprised.   I expected to be here on the weekend.   Obviously expected to play much better than I did.

Q.   What do you have to do between tonight and tomorrow when you tee off?
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Do you want the honest answer? 

Q.   I would love the honest answer. 
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Nothing.   There's not a whole lot I can do right now.   I kind of blew this one.   I'm going to go and have lunch with my family and maybe practice a little this afternoon, but not a whole lot I can do now.

Q.   Are you a good rebounder, though?
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   I love playing at home.   I'm still a little disappointed with myself, obviously, but yeah, I like playing at home and the crowds have been great.   I'll enjoy tomorrow and hopefully walk away with good memories of this year. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT