MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 18, 2013
Jessica Shepley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Great start to the tournament.   No matter what everybody else does the rest of the day, you're in great shape where you are right now.   Talk about your round.   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   I got off to a solid start and I also finished well, so that's all I can really ask for.   
Gave myself lots of opportunities to make birdies and put myself in a good place for tomorrow.   Lots of golf left, though.  
   
 Q.   Had you been playing really well up to this point?   Is this something you've been expecting or hoping for?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   You know, I had couple good results.   I played a couple smaller events up in Canada.   Had some good results.   Didn't play great last week.   
Been working hard and working on my swing a lot.   I am trying to stay patient, so was hoping one of these rounds would come soon.  
   
 Q.   Was there any holes out here where you expected the challenge and prepared yourself for that?   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   No, you know, I had a good game plan for the entire course.   I knew where I wanted to hit my tee shots and what part of the greens I wanted to hit for the specific pin.   
So not one in particular.   
   
 Q.   I'm sure the ball was flying out there today.   What was the heat like?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, it was hot.   It was very hot.   But it didn't affect the ball too much.   Probably affected us more.   Just trying stay cool was the goal.  
   
 Q.   Knowing how the heat will be this week and knowing you had the early round today, do you have to take advantage of that early start?   The heat index will be close to 100 degrees they said.   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, I think it's important to play well for the morning round.   It's so hot out there.   Just even warming up in the heat is going to be a little bit more difficult for the afternoon rounds, which we'll play tomorrow.   
I think taking advantage will be good.  
   
 Q.   I know Thursday isn't where you win a tournament, but you've got to feel good being right around the top.   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, I haven't really been in this position before, so...  
Have to do it once, right, to get comfortable out here and to keep growing.   So I'm happy with my round today.   
   
 Q.   You talked about playing some Canadian events.   How many events have you played up there?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   I played a Canadian Tour event and another Canadian PGA event.   So some smaller events, but still good competition and just continuing to play and compete.   
   
 Q.   Finding some things your swing starting to feel better, what have you noticed and found lately that's kind of led to this good round?   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Just been working with my instructor, Tony Bigler.   We have been making some changes.   For me, it's catching things I start to do on a golf course as the round wears on a little bit.   
So I caught a couple of my older tendencies and was able to kind of make a correction.   I hit some good irons on the back side.   So I think understanding my own game a little bit better and growing that way.  
   
 Q.   When you come to a golf course like this where you know there have been low scores, do you think automatically when you head out there that, Got to go low to really put myself in contention.   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   You know, I don't really think of scores too much out there.   I was just trying to stay in it and really focus because of heat.   Maybe that was a blessing in disguise to have something else to worry about.  
Wasn't thinking about scores too much, to be honest.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT