CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 26, 2012
Jessica Shepley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is it the right way to finish, the way that things were going for you after yesterday, you were 2‑under and you were struggling here and there?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah.   I played really well yesterday and didn't really score, and today I didn't really play well and I just kind of hung in there.   
But I'm just having a great time and the crowds have been so wonderful all weekend to me.   So that was just a cool way to end for everybody, but it just shows you gotta always hang in there till the end; right.  
   
 Q.   Does it help you confidence wise, low Canadian back to back years?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah.   I think it just shows how much I love this country, and I love playing here, and in front of my ‑‑ you know, in front of my family and friends.   
Yeah, but it's always good when you play well in your home country.   It's always been a good confidence booster for me to come out west.   I love it out here.  
   
 Q.   Not to detract any from what you did, but Lydia Ko, what she's done out here as a 15‑year‑old?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah.   You know, I've gone to Australia the last couple years to start the season off and have been watching her play, and obviously she's a phenomenal player and she's 15.   So who knows what's in store.   You know, hopefully she has some good people managing her and she stays healthy and still enjoys just being a kid, and I think you'll see a lot of good stuff for the next few years from her.  
   
 Q.   How much does what you did here this week help you the rest of the season?   You know, you talked about the fact you weren't playing your best golf, but lo and behold you make the cut and you finish in style here on 18.   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah.   I think I look forward to the rest of my season.   Like I said, I haven't really played very well, but I did have a good weekend, and I think in golf confidence is so important.   So I'm looking forward to the rest of the year, see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Do you have any idea how many events you might get into the rest of the year?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   I'll be in the ‑‑  
   
 Q.   You'll be in the rest?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, the rest of the domestic events, which there's only actually two more.   Hopefully domestic events, and some good play in those two might qualify me for the post season in Asia, but if not I'm playing the CPGA next week and then those final two and then we'll see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Extra special having the family in the crowd?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   My parents are here and I have a couple good friends.   You know, I have a great friend of mine that's been on my bag all year and she's been great and stuck by me through some pretty poor golf, so I'm glad I could do that for her as well.  
   
 Q.   How did you hook up with a caddie that comes from California?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Actually, Hawaii.   
   
 Q.   Hawaii.   Okay.   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   I used to play with her, yeah, on the Futures Tour, on the Duramed Futures Tour.   We played together and when she retired she agreed to come out with me.  
   
 Q.   So Jessica, can you just talk a little bit about your round today and what it was like playing?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   You know, I hit the ball really, really good yesterday, so I kind of had that expectation coming into today and I really didn't hit it very solid.  
You know, I made a couple of putts when I needed to and I really just didn't let my round get away from me.   I think that's just experience and hopefully a little maturity.   
Then you know, I made two birdies coming in.   Ended the weekend nicely.  
   
 Q.   Extra special having the presentation from Sandra?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   Sandra is a great friend of mine and has been a mentor and always supported all my decisions and helped me a lot with my career, so it was special that she could be here this year.  
   
 Q.   I was talking to Scott earlier about what needs to be done to help some of the young Canadian girls in terms of helping them organize their tour events.   What's your take on that?   Does more need to be done to sort of help some of the younger kids out there?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   You know, I think it's tough coming out and playing now.   There's a lot you need to know.   It's a little bit different than when the tour first started and everyone just got in their car and drove around.   Obviously those women were the pioneers who created this tour, but it's a lot now.   There's a lot of worldwide travel.   There's a lot of pressure.   It's just a whole different ball game when you come out here, so I think if some of the organizations that are trying to help the up and coming juniors kind of reach out and talk to some of the players that have been out here, and we can help, you know.   It's great.   People like Brooke Henderson, what a phenomenal player, and I hope that she continues to ask for help and kind of ask questions, and that's how we did it.   That's how my dad did it.   I had Lorie and Alena Sharp and A.J. and those girls to look up to.   So I think if we can just continue to kind of mentor them and help them adjust into this life.   And then just continually ‑‑ this is a very expensive job to have, so I think as a country if we can financially support these girls and help them at least get started, so that burden of ‑‑ that financial pressure isn't there, it'll make a big difference.  
   
 Q.   Caddies and getting tickets to events?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   There's just a lot to know from going to college to the developmental tour to here, it's just a whole different stage.   There's so much media, and you know, there's just getting around and figuring out, even when you're on site how to do things, and it's just a learning curve.   But I think we need to continue supporting the younger girls so that ‑‑ financially is a big part so they can have the adequate resources and coaching and fitness to compete because these girls are unbelievable out here.  
   
 Q.   If you weren't playing golf, what would you do?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   I don't know.   I'm not sure.   I've thought about it a lot.   I would love to go into sports broadcasting.   I would love to go back to teachers college and maybe teach primary school.   I don't know.   I'm not sure, to be honest with you.   I haven't really sat down and thought about it.   It's been golf for a long time.   But I think something in the sports world.  
   
 Q.   What was it like for you kind of carrying Canada's colors to the weekend?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   It was fun.   I had a great time.   I wish more of the girls were playing on the weekend, but at the end of the day this is an individual sport, so I have to focus on myself.   But it was nice.   I had great support both days all the way around so that's all I can ask for.  
   
 Q.   Sandra was your coach before?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah.   She was my first instructor.  
   
 Q.   How long ago are we talking?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Well, we started working 13, 14 and continued through till college, and then when I finished college I started working with Shawn Foley.   
   
 Q.   Your final putt, from how far was it?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   About 40 feet.   
   
 Q.   How does it feel to have made the best putt by a Canadian in the final round in the 2012 Canadian Women's Open?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Feels fabulous.   It was wonderful.   I can't believe it actually went in.   We had a little flag issue at first there, so for me to finally putt and for it to go in was pretty special.  
   
 Q.   Gave the folks around the green something to really cheer about?  
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yes.   Absolutely.   It was great.   Couldn't ask for a better way to finish.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT