CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 24, 2012
Brooke Henderson
Jessica Shepley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   This whole experience for you, I know it's been a bit of a whirlwind, but just tell me all about it this week?   How do you feel?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   It's been so awesome.   I was looking forward to it all summer.   It's definitely been a lot of fun and so enjoyable.   I had great playing partners in there.   They were just so nice to me and great competitors also at a beautiful golf club.   It's just really exciting to have this be my first LPGA Tour event.  
   
 Q.   Is it everything you hoped it would be and probably more, I would bet?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, for sure.   It's been great.   Looking forward to the future.  
   
 Q.   When you look back and I know it just ended, but what are some of the lessons you took away from the last couple of days?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   I don't know.   There's a lot, for sure.   Just the experience in general is definitely going to help me.   I don't know.   It's just been so awesome.  
   
 Q.   What about having your teammates here and having everybody here, not only Tristan and Ann, and all the girls with you and everything?   Did having all those teammates that you've been with for the past year make this experience even more special, having your family here?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, for sure.   Teammates, coaches, they've been great.   It's been a lot of fun.   My mom and dad and aunt and uncle came out and two members from my golf club came over to see, so definitely there's been a lot of support and a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   This was your first initial shot against the pros.   You've been playing with Alena and Mo Martin.   How did you feel about your game in terms of when you were out there and I'm sure in your mind you were thinking how do I stack up against these girls?   I'm so young, yet I'm right here.   Talk to me about that?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, there are definitely things I can learn, and they've taught me a lot of things just by watching them.   
But it was fun.   I was keeping up with them on the drives for the post part.   Lena outdrove me sometimes, but it was a lot of fun.  
   
 Q.   What about some of the things you had a chance to talk to them about?   I know you and A.J. yesterday she was talking to you and you were talking to Lena and Mo.   Talk about that interaction that you had with some girls that have extensive experience out there and what that was like?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, for sure.   They were definitely helping me out.   It was a lot of fun to talk to them like that.   And A.J. I was talking to her quite a bit, and she was helping me along as much as possible.  
   
 Q.   Lastly, just put it all into perspective, if you can.   What a great opportunity and experience this was for you here?   
BROOKE HENDERSON:   Yeah, this is so awesome, and I can't wait for future events.   
     
             Q.Must feel good being able to drain a putt like that.   You knew what it meant, probably?   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   That was not what I was looking for to have a ten‑foot downhill left to right slot around 18 to make the cut.   It went in, so that's all that matters.  
   
 Q.   I think you might be the only Canadian playing this weekend.   Does that bring any added pressure?   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   No, I don't think pressure.   I'm excited to be playing.   I haven't had a good season this year, and I haven't played very well.   So I'm excited that I was able to do it and to play a little bit better at the Canadian Open.   It's always special to play well here, and I love playing out west.  
   
 Q.   Talk about your round.   What was it like coming in?   Were you feeling any pressure at all?   Were you in a bit of a comfort zone there?   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, I felt okay.   I just hit a bad putt on 16.   I actually hit a poor iron shot and left myself a long putt.   So I've been working on my leg and putting in speed for the last few days.   So unfortunately it let me down the last come holes, but in the end I made the putt on 18.  
   
 Q.   Talk about that last hole.   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Played it pretty poorly.   I cut it in the long grass, hit it out not well, and I had 45 yards to where I wanted to land it in that long rough.   It just came out really hot, and I left myself that 40‑foot downhill slider.   It's a tough finishing hole and a great finishing hole.   So hopefully it comes down to the tournament on Sunday.  
   
 Q.   When you saw Cristie make that up, was it a confidence booster for you?   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, she played well all day and missed a couple coming in.   So I thought when she made that shot on 18, I thought she was going to make it.   But just a little motivation to see it going in.  
   
 Q.   Looking forward to the weekend now?   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   I'm having a great time.   It's beautiful and my parents are out here, and I couldn't be happier playing in Vancouver.  
   
 Q.   What's it mean to be the lone Canadian that made the cut?   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   I'm just going to play my best.   I feel for those girls.   I've been in that position a cup times before.   So I'll try to focus myself and represent my country.  
   
 Q.   Did you hear what happened to Lorie Kane?   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   No, I just walked off.  
   
 Q.   She missed the cut by a stroke.   She doubled her last hole.   
JESSICA SHEPLEY:   Lori is such a good ambassador for the country and the game that I hate to see that.   But I have to go and focus on myself now.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT