U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2019
Kyle Williams
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys ran into a little bit of a buzz saw.  Those guys made a lot of birdies.
KYLE WILLIAMS: Yeah.  Birdie's the name of the game in this deal.  We tried to par them to death.  It didn't work out too well.
We had a lot of fun.  Like you said, we just didn't make enough birdies today.  I mean, we played solid but just couldn't get the ball to go in the hole.
Q. Did they birdie the last hole too?
KYLE WILLIAMS: Yeah.  I mean, we were in for par and he had a six-footer for birdie.  So he's not going to --
Q. I think they were 12 under over the last 27 holes they've played.
KYLE WILLIAMS: They're playing good.  They're going to be a tough team to beat if they keep doing what they're doing.
But we knew that coming in.  Like I said yesterday, the further along you get in this competition, the players are really competitive and are highly skilled, and we knew that birdie's the name of the game and we just didn't have it today.  We only had a couple.
Q. How would you assess your week here?  You guys got to stroke play, got to match play, won a match, got a taste of what this is all about.
KYLE WILLIAMS: We had a great time.  Like I said, our expectations are we're going to take the time to do it.  We wanted to compete.  We wanted to win.  We know it that takes getting hot and playing well at the right time.
Like I said, today, we were okay, but not the name of the game in this deal against this kind of competition, the kind of players we're playing against.
Q. What does it say?  What do you think you need to work on now, going forward, to maybe take it to that next level?
KYLE WILLIAMS: Well, it's just that's the great thing about golf.  You're never going to perfect it.  You're just looking for progress.  So I'm always looking to work on everything that I've got and get better and better, because these guys not just here, but all over, are awfully good.
So that's the great thing about the game.  It allows everybody the opportunity to compete, and it's never perfect, no matter who it is.  You hopefully improve and get better.
Q. Will we see you try for the mid-am now?
KYLE WILLIAMS: We'll see.  I don't know what my schedule is going to allow me to do or not.  Schedule allowing, I'm going to try, yeah.
Q. I assume you'll try to play four-ball again next year with Greg?
KYLE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I would think so, unless he shucks me.  I feel like I'm a pretty good partner so we're going to play in a couple things together this summer and then we've got probably some individual stuff this summer.
So looking forward to it.  This is good jump start for our season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT