U.S. AMATEUR FOUR-BALL CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2019
Kyle Williams
Greg Berthelot
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You guys started off really well, I think three straight wins.  How much did that calm the nerves for a first match to get out to that kind of start?
KYLE WILLIAMS: I don't know it was really nerves.  It was obviously a hot start and able to get out.  Basically ended up being, you know, the deciding factor in the match, you know.  We birdied the first three, and good up and down on 4, and we were kind of off and rolling and in a comfortable spot to get started that fast.
Q. You birdied the first two?
KYLE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I birdied 1 and 2.  He birdied 3, and like I said, we were off to a good start.
Q. What did you have on 1 and 2 in terms of a putt and shot in there?
KYLE WILLIAMS: I had about a five feet on 1 and made about a 30-footer on 2.  I was right underneath the hole on 2, just kind of straight up the hill and broke left and went right in the hole.  So it was a really good start.
Q. Number 3 has been your -- you eagled it yesterday.  Did you knock it on the green again today or no?
GREG BERTHELOT: No, I was down short by the bunker.  Had about 90 yards, and hit it to about eight feet, rolled it in.
Q. You guys, I think, were 5 under on the front or 6 under, most of that.
GREG BERTHELOT: I think so, somewhere in there.
Q. Did you feel just really good today?  Did you feel a good vibe when you got off the practice range or got on the 1st tee?
GREG BERTHELOT: It's kind of how we started here yesterday in the second round of stroke play.  Started off hot and then just kind of rode it out.  I know eventually we're going to, when we get hot, we have to capitalize and kind of keep the pedal to the metal because it's only going to get tougher from here, but we won't complain about starts like that.
Q. You guys are in the final 16.
KYLE WILLIAMS: Sweet.
Q. Your thoughts about that?  First USGA Championship, you're an ex-football guy.  You're used to competition.  This is a whole different area for you guys.
KYLE WILLIAMS: Yeah, yeah.  We didn't come for a t-shirt.  I mean, you know, you ask everybody that comes and plays in these things, they come, and they're competitive.  They're good players.  They want to win, and that's what we're doing here.  We're going to try to win, you know.  Maybe we do, maybe we don't, but we're going to give it our best shot.
Q. Did you ever win a National Championship in college?
KYLE WILLIAMS: I won a National Championship in '03.
Q. You know what that's like?
KYLE WILLIAMS: I know what we're up against and you'll have other guys you're going to play against that are competitors and skilled players.  We're looking forward to what tomorrow holds.
Q. Are you guys more comfortable with the golf course.  You got in late, only had one practice round out here.  You had two stroke play rounds and now another match.  How do you feel about the golf course, your comfort level with it?
GREG BERTHELOT: Very comfortable now.  Kind of know where to miss and where to hit it.  So after playing it the third time, I mean, I like it.
Q. Yeah.  Potentially a long day tomorrow, two matches.  You guys, you look like you're in pretty good shape to walk this golf course.
GREG BETHELOT: I don't know about me anymore.
Q. You guys are young guys?
KYLE WILLIAMS: Like he said, we'll take it as we come, and hopefully get off to a good start tomorrow and see what the day holds.
Q. Have you heard from any of your Buffalo Bills guys?
KYLE WILLIAMS: I've heard from a couple friends back home.  They're excited and kind of pulling for us.  So, like I said, we know it's only going to get tougher from here, as far as probably conditions-wise with the wind will probably pick up and who we play.  So we're looking forward to it.
Q. Has Brandon texted you back at all?
KYLE WILLIAMS: I think he's on vacation.  They got done with the draft.  He's got a little down time.  I've heard back from him.
Q. He was --
KYLE WILLIAMS: Yeah, pulling for us.
Q. Guys, congratulations.
KYLE WILLIAMS: Thanks.
GREG BERTHELOT: Appreciate it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT