NCAA MEN'S FIRST FOUR: DAYTON
March 13, 2017
D.J. Johnson
Wesley Iwundu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Joining us now are Kansas State student-athletes D.J. Johnson and Wesley Iwundu.
Q. D.J., you've had maybe a little more time to look at Wake Forest and just your impressions of their team and what impresses you about them?
D.J. JOHNSON: They were a really good team.  They run the floor, shoot the three ball pretty well so we've got to bring our defensive game, transition is going to be really big and they've got a lot of good players so matchups are going to play a big role in this game as well.
Q. Wes, looking at all the things that have happened over the last few years, how big does this whole moment feel for you to be the lone guy that was in that class with all those guys to get back to the NCAA Tournament?
WESLEY IWUNDU: You know, it's definitely a big accomplishment.  In my career to get back here a second time, even at the other things major accomplishment.  Reaching K-State history it's a good feeling to be back to this point to get another opportunity to do some things this late in the season and make a run deep run in this tournament so I feel pretty good about it.
Q. Wes, what made you want to stick it out while so many other guys, it didn't work out for them in that class?
WESLEY IWUNDU: I just gave a commitment to K-State.  And through everything, I was just helping my family.  They just stayed with me, told me things would work out for itself.
Actually, as I'm sitting in front of you guys, it has worked out for itself.  And got a lot of opportunities for myself by sticking around, getting a chance to play in the NCAA Tournament again before I'm out of K-State.  So just a lot of things came out of it, just had to stick through that.
Q. Just coming off the Big 12 loss to West Virginia, what positives do you take out of that game and what did you look at that you needed to sharpen up coming into the tournament?
WESLEY IWUNDU: I think we just need to make some adjustments on the offensive end.  Looking back at the second half, they went to a zone.
I think we've got to go back to the drawing board, see what we can do to get more size up against the zone.  But that's what we've been doing these past few days since that game.  I feel very confident in us right now, and I'm liking our chances in this game to go do something, take a win.
Q. D.J., what about you, after everything you went through that last tournament run, what does it feel like to overcome everything and be back here again?
D.J. JOHNSON: Feels good to be back.  Our fans have stuck around through good and bad we worked hard through the past few seasons to reach this point we're happy to be here and ready to make some noise.
Q. How exciting was it -- Coach yesterday said he was excited to get to the NCAA Tournament for you guys.  But how about the flipside, getting here for him, what has that meant for you guys?
D.J. JOHNSON: It's always been about us.  Over the last couple of weeks Coach Weber and Mr. Currie as well have stressed that it's about us and no one else.  We don't want to let each other down.  We don't want to let our fans down.  So we've got to be back here for us.
WESLEY IWUNDU: Pretty much what D.J. says.  We had the mindset this is about us the whole time.  Blanking out everything that's going on away from the court, we've been focusing on basketball the whole time, that's how it's going to remain until the season is over with.  It's all basketball.  Nothing else.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT