NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: NUGGETS v LAKERS
May 22, 2009
George Karl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What's it going to be like in Denver? 
 COACH KARL: It will be great for our fans. They deserve it. They've been great for us. Big part of lifting us through the season. Now we have an opportunity to try and beat a championship team at our home court. That's the whole thing, the process is to get one where you got the home court but then give your fans an opportunity to try to win it.

 Q. You guys feel like you should be up 2-0?
 COACH KARL: I don't feel that way, no. I mean, we played -- I thought that both games had similar personalities. They might have played better last night than we did. We played with a tenacious attitude at the end. And that won us Game 2. They probably played more tenacious in Game 1.

 Q. Did you feel it was real close, went to Game 2, close, that you have been evolving or you always know that?
 COACH KARL: As a coach, I said everybody's kind of been waiting for us to serve up to the adverse situations. And we haven't had a lot of them, but I think we've had two in a row. 
 And I don't think you can say we folded in Game 1. We just didn't convert, we didn't finish off that game. And last night we had a lot of -- even in the second half, when there were like seven, twice in a row, you know, we kept standing in. And defensively we got better as the game went on and fortunately figured out how to not let Kobe have 18 in the fourth quarter. 

 Q. Was it nice to see LK get that shot?
 COACH KARL: Yeah. I mean, right now the bench was not producing like it has been producing for us most of the year. And LK gave us that wild card. And people are going to talk about his points and his 3s. But I thought it was his rebounding. All of a sudden we had a better focus on rebounding the ball. I don't know if it was his size or just having another big guy on the court. But from that point, in the middle of the second quarter, we actually rebounded pretty well with them.

 Q. You mentioned the bench. How important is that with respect to the advantage having to step up, not just Melo and Chauncey?
 COACH KARL: We don't start our best five. Dahntay starts as a defensive, for better phrase, a Bruce Bowen specialist. And so I don't -- going into the game I don't know who is going to finish. 
 It could be Dahntay. It could be J.R. It could be A.C. If we get into foul trouble with our bigs, no problem putting Chris on the court at the end of the game. So I think our personality, the bench is part of that. And one thing about going home is I think Chris and J.R. and A.C. play better at home.

 Q. I know you guys were confident coming into the series. Playing as well as you guys did in the two games at Staples, can that elevate confidence for your team?
 COACH KARL: Well, I've always felt that this team had a -- we had this confidence that's been denied. Over the last three or four years we've not been a bad playoff team, we've just been beaten in the first round. And we've played good playoff games. But all everybody could talk about is...







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT