NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 14, 2010
George Karl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q. What was said in the huddle on that final play? Dirk said there was a play designed for him but mellow just said the guys wanted him to shoot it?
 GEORGE KARL: It was Dirk at the corner and mellow at the elbow. I thought they did a nice job of pushing mellow out. Wade made a good, smart decision. 
 A lot of guys were trying to say -- the play before when Dirk got fouled, we were hoping he would throw it up and try for the 3. Thought it was a pretty well-played All-Star Game, and you know, end of the game, didn't get what we probably wanted but actually got a release that mellow has made in his career. 

 Q. Chauncey bringing his team back in the fourth quarter, what was he doing to be so successful? 
 GEORGE KARL: He was making the run-up three, we were in a catch-up situation and actually played some pretty good defense in the fourth quarter, got some stops and got our hands on some balls. Have to, would on our fast break defense, though. Transition defense wasn't very good. (Laughter) That's my fault. 

 Q. You said a couple of weeks ago if these guys took it seriously and wanted to win, it would be a pretty good game. Was this what you had in mind? 
 GEORGE KARL: I thought it had it's moments where there was a lackadaisical or All-Star type of intensity, but I thought it was pretty well played. It was well coached. I thought Stan tricked me sometimes. I tricked him sometimes. You know, we had fun kind of running each other plays back and forth at each other a little bit, so a good time.

 Q. Players were talking about the experience in front of 108,000 people; how was it as a coach? Can you think clearly? 
 GEORGE KARL: You know, I'm way too -- I'm way too old to even fathom this reality that we just participated in. You know, from the scoreboard to the 100,000 people to just the good brand of basketball that was played. There was just a lot of classy stuff that there are a lot smarter people in the world that think about things like this than me. I'm just glad to be a part of it. Wish we would have won.
 As I told the team, there have been four or five experiences in my life that I kind of have been shut up or humbled or quieted by the presence of like Arnold Palmer the first time I met him, when I met Bill Clinton in the White House, four or five situations like that. Coaching and being a part of these 25 guys, 25 to 30 guys over the last two days, it's really a mesh of the good of the old and the resurgence or the beginning of a lot of the great new. I thought it was a well-played game, and you have LeBron and Dwyane and mellow and Deron Williams and then you have Nash and Dirk and some old guys that still know how to get it done. 
 I thought it was a really -- and they are classy guys, and they are the class of our league. I thought it was a classy performance. 

 Q. Just talk about the whole atmosphere and also the last play, what were you trying to do there? 
 GEORGE KARL: For Dirk or Melo, and hopefully maybe we -- they disrupted it pretty good. 

 Q. Were you hoping that under the circumstances here, you would get him the last shot? 
 GEORGE KARL: Yeah, I was hoping for Dirk. I was hoping that Dirk or Melo would have fallen into a three. First the play where Dirk got fouled, that was for Dirk to try to actually make a three. But, you know.

 Q. And also was there any concern for you, especially being the guy in charge of all of the guys, of running off the floor, running off the sidelines, or did you think there was ample space around the floor for them? 
 GEORGE KARL: You know, I was more concerned for my knees trying to climb up on that table, up on the steps that I had to climb up on. I've never liked the elevated floor. There are a few of them in college and a few of them probably that I've played on. They scare me a little bit.
 But again, I don't -- there's probably a one in a million injuries that we are talking about. I don't know, but I don't think Jerry Jones or Cuban or David would have endangered any of our great athletes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT