NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 12, 2010
George Karl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GEORGE KARL: You know, we just didn't like how we lost to LA. We respected their team. We were happy that they won the championship. But there were just games there, there were just games there that -- there was one game they beat us bad in Game 6, we beat them bad in one other game, so there was four other games that we won -- we won two of those four games and they won two. It just doesn't seem like they were a dominant team over us. But we had to concede that they won and keep our mouths shut, and we've got to wait until this year to see what happens. 

 Q. Has it been made official who will be replacing Kobe in the starting lineup yet? 
 GEORGE KARL: Derek. I'm going to give Derek the opportunity. I think that's the right thing to do. I think with 90,000 people being here, I think Dallas deserves the representation, and he only scores about 35 on us every night we play him. 

 Q. And in front of 90,000, what kind of an experience do you think that's going to be?
 GEORGE KARL: I think of all the things I've thought about, it's walking out and witnessing that scene is going to be something that will be historical, and I'm looking forward to it. I'm also looking forward to Cuban and Jimmy Jones and David Stern all throwing something together that's probably going to be wild and crazy, too. 

 Q. What do you think the future holds for Kevin Durant?
 GEORGE KARL: He's one of the best young scorers I've ever seen. They handled us pretty easily the last time we played them, and after the game, I had a coaches' meeting after the game -- I don't have many coaches' meetings after games. I said, we have to figure something out about this kid next time we play him. We're not going to let him control us the way he controlled us in that game. It seems like almost every month he's been improving. Their team is a very dangerous team. I'm going to tell you right now, I'm almost certain they're going to be a playoff team, and I don't think they would be a fun team to play in the first round to be honest with you. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT