MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2000
Stefania Groce
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







STEFANIA CROCE: I birdied number 1. I had an 8-iron in and I put it probably six feet
and made a putt. Then I birdied No. 2 with a 3-iron. I put it probably eight feet. Then I
birdied No. 3. I hit an 8-iron and then left it probably, a lot, maybe 30 feet short and I
made the putt. Then I birdied No. 7. I made -- I hit a 7-iron in and then made a 20 foot
putt again, maybe 30 feet putt. Then I birdied No. 11, with a 25 feet putt with a sand
wedge. And I bogeyed No. 6. I always bogey that stupid hole. Then I bogeyed No. 8. I hit
it left into the into the rough. I was maybe 30 feet from the pin and I was deep in the
rough. So I chip it in and then 2-putts. No. 8, I had a 3-iron, very nice, but I was --
the wind pushed me into the bunker. I had sand shot and two putts. Then that's it. Then I
went into the playoff, and I parred No. 18. I hit a 5-iron in. And then, as always, I
bogeyed No. 10. I think I bogeyed that hole almost every day, I think, except today. No,
two days I bogeyed. Today was the adrenaline that got me. It was a good 9-iron, but I was
a little bit pumped up, but it's not the nicest hole for me.

STEFANIA CROCE: More 17 than 16. I hit a second shot into the bunker, I hit a driver
with second shot because I was going for it and I went into the bunker, and unfortunately
I caught it a little bit clean, but there was a little bit -- not too much sand; so I
could not get it close. 

Q. When you finish your round, did you think you had any chance of getting into the
playoff?

STEFANIA CROCE: No, I didn't think so, no. I just waited around, but I didn't think I
was going to get into the playoff. I thought 4-under would win. So, even though I lost, I
still had a good time, you know. I didn't expect. I tried, to win, but I don't feel that
bad. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

STEFANIA CROCE: I was nervous on the 18th tee. I was nervous, but after I hit, I said,
all right, I'm back into my game. 

Q. What did you do between the time after you finished up until you went to the
playoff? 

STEFANIA CROCE: I went all over the place, because I was taking care of my friends;
they are here watching. So I was bringing them water, trying to talk to them. And then I
rest for five minutes and then I went chipping, because I said, maybe I have a chance, I
have a good chance. So I was chipping the last 10 minutes.

Q. The 18th, when Wendy and Juli were playing, what were you thinking then?

STEFANIA CROCE: I was chipping on the putting green. And I said, I don't know if Juli
is going to win, by the crowd, and if they are not clapping that hard, it means that I'm
going to go in the playoff, and from the clapping, I understood I was going to go into the
playoff. 

Q. What was your father's name? 

STEFANIA CROCE: Angelo. This week Angelo is here, good thanks to him. He flew all the
way from Italy last week. I was not playing too good at all. Unbelievable. I was
desperate. He came and we worked a little bit last week, and this week it showed.

Q. Even though you didn't win, it's kind of like winning. This is the most money you
ever made, and you pretty much secure your card?

STEFANIA CROCE: I did. I feel good, as I said, even though I didn't win, I think I kept
my card, which I was having a lot of trouble before, because since now I made like
$18,000, so with this big check, it helps. 

Q. How many times did you win in Europe? 

STEFANIA CROCE: I won the won time, in England, '92. 

Q. Was it a big transition coming over here? 

STEFANIA CROCE: I think the players are better, and so it's more difficult, because
everybody is good. But for the organization, for the tournaments, it's so much easier
here, like the hotels, the golf courses are transportation, housing, how the golf course
are maintained. It's easier for the organization, but it's tougher for the game, because
everybody is good. But in Europe, I had a tough time, because you have to find your own
way to get to the hotel, to get to the course, so you have to work, even after the golf. 

Q. How closely are they following your career back home and how big of a star are you? 

STEFANIA CROCE: At home, in golf, I am known, but besides golf, nobody knows. I think
if Tiger Woods walked into Rome, I don't think people will really understand who he is.
(Laughter.) It's true. 

Q. What happened with your third shot in the second playoff hole? 

STEFANIA CROCE: Tough. Tough. 

Q. Bad lie? What happened there?

STEFANIA CROCE: It was just a tough shot. I tried. 

Q. Was it the lie?

STEFANIA CROCE: No, the lie was not very good, of course, but more than that, it was
the downhill grain. I try. 

Q. You said you were nervous before, you and your caddy were laughing and joking around
before that, were you just trying to take your mind off of things and trying to relax? 

STEFANIA CROCE: Yeah, I was just nervous when I got there, you know, for like maybe a
couple minutes. But other than that, it was just -- at home, I put myself, like at home,
on my golf course. 

Q. Did you have any trouble with the wind? A lot of people talked about swirling wind.

STEFANIA CROCE: Yes, I did. I was changing clubs all day. But then once I made up my
mind, I would hit the shot I wanted. Most of the time.

Q. What was your distance on the 9-iron on 10? 

STEFANIA CROCE: I had 122 yards to the pin. I had a little bit of wind, a little bit
against, and I think it was not -- not too long, actually it was a little bit left. Maybe
if I had a better kick, it would have been maybe like Juli, I don't know. I think I had a
little bit of adrenaline. 

Q. How far do you normally hit a 9-iron?

STEFANIA CROCE: I go -- lately not too far, I go 125, 127.

Q. What did your father help you fix specifically with your swing?

STEFANIA CROCE: My backswing. I was going too much outside. So I had to go more inside
and more up. 

Q. What was the difference, do you think, was it just the wind was not as much
bothering you? I mean, you obviously had no trouble making birdies, while the rest of the
field was backing up. What was the difference, do you think?

STEFANIA CROCE: I made some very nice putts for birdie. And I think the thing is, when
I was home, before I was coming here this morning, I was picturing myself playing the golf
course, and I felt very good, and so I was picturing a lot of birdies, I was listening to
music, and when I was -- I came here practicing, putting. I was practicing birdie putts
because I felt good. 

Q. You came here and were seven strokes behind Juli and Wendy. Did you think you had
any chance of winning when you first got to the course this morning?

STEFANIA CROCE: I thought that any time you can go 4- or 5-over on this golf course --
so, I knew that if I was going to go 5-under, I had a chance, even though they were
7-under to begin. 

Q. What were you thinking when you birdied the first three holes?

STEFANIA CROCE: Well, I said if I keep on going like this, I'm going to win. (Laughs).
No, I just kept focused. I didn't think too much ahead. 

Q. Who came and told you that, okay, you are in the playoff? You said you sensed it
from the --

STEFANIA CROCE: From the clapping. I don't know who told me. 

Q. Was it kind of a jolt? 

STEFANIA CROCE: No, from the clapping I knew it was going to go in, in the playoff and
then minute later, I don't know who told me, but you are in the playoff, you've got to go.


Q. Were you kind of standing on the putting green knowing that either the clapping or
the booing was going to happen soon? Were you waiting for it? 

STEFANIA CROCE: Yeah, I said, let's see, if I get in, I get in, if I don't, I had a
good tournament, anyway. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT