NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 10, 1999
Felix Mantilla
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








FELIX MANTILLA: Yes, I'm really happy because I knew Pete is at the moment the best player in the world. I went to the court very concentrate on my game. I think I played a great match. 

FELIX MANTILLA: Oh, for sure. I must be more concentrate against the No. 1 in the world than one guy is improving, he's young. Today, I think I did not very much mistakes. I played very solid from the baseline. I served well. I think I played a very good match. 

FELIX MANTILLA: Well, he served at his level, no? He served very well. On the baseline, he did a lot of mistakes. I think he must take more confidence. 

FELIX MANTILLA: No, I don't think so. But the problem is maybe Pete don't play a lot of matches. It's hard, no, to start the season, and every player that plays against him goes a hundred percent and do his best. Today I played really well. That's why I won. 

FELIX MANTILLA: For sure. It was a tough match, no? I knew that the third will be very fighting set. When I broke him in the third game of the third set, I took more confidence in myself and my game. Then after when serving, when winning my games, the last game I returned very well and I won the match. 

FELIX MANTILLA: Well, in the beginning I knew was tough because if you play against the No. 1 in the world, you always go, "We'll see what happen." But today I start to play well since the beginning of the match. Then I was feeling very comfortable with my game. Every time that the match was going on, I took more confidence in my game. Finally, I did a very great match. 

FELIX MANTILLA: Well, that's one of the points. I knew that Pete played not very much this year. I said, "Well, I'm playing well. I'm feeling well on the court. I'm going to do my best and fight all the match." I lose the second set, but I continued fighting all the third set. That's why I won. I was concentrate. I believe that I could win him. 

FELIX MANTILLA: Well, will be difficult for him because all the players wants to be the No. 1. There are three or four players that can be in the next tournaments. It will be difficult for him if he starts to play well. Everybody knows that he has the best tennis in the world. He can be there, but if he don't play well in the next tournaments, will be difficult. The other players are very close. Maybe they play well. 

FELIX MANTILLA: Well, he has a chance, no? If he reach the final, I think he's going to be the next No. 1. He has a tough draw, but everybody knows Carlos has a very good game, he's very good player. Why not? 

FELIX MANTILLA: Well, I think from the baseline, Pete don't play really well today. I played better. He did more mistakes. That happens. But everybody knows how is playing Pete. Pete has very, very good serve. If he broke you in one game, then it's too tight to broke him again. 

FELIX MANTILLA: No. In the first set, I wasn't doing a cross backhand. In the second, I tried to do the same as in the first set. In the third, the same as the first two sets. 


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT