NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 17, 2017
Myles Turner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Myles, I know this is something you've been looking forward to for a long time.  What are your emotions finally being here?
MYLES TURNER: I'm real excited, man.  I'm happy just to, after not making it last year, to be here, and get started.
Q. Because you weren't here last year, I know a lot of that had to do with the injury, but did that give you a little more motivation to kind of prove yourself in this game?
MYLES TURNER: Yes, go out and prove myself, just to put my talent on display on this stage.  A lot of good for my organization and my game.
Q. What does it mean for you to have not only you here, but Glenn [Robinson III] down here and Paul [George] down here?
MYLES TURNER: Represents the organization well, man.  We have got something going every day.  Fans can watch and know that we're represented well.
Q. Are you planning to stick around and watch now?
MYLES TURNER: I'm definitely going to stick around and watch Glenn on Saturday.  I'll probably take off and go back to my family on Sunday.  Obviously, I'll definitely watch the game.
Q. I know you've worked out with Glenn a lot.  Do you think he has what it takes to win this dunk contest?
MYLES TURNER: I know he's got what it takes.  Guys haven't really seen him on a national level, and I think that kind of plays to his hands a little bit.  He's got the element of surprise.
Q. Have you talked to Paul about what to expect this weekend?
MYLES TURNER: Not necessarily, just kind of winging it.  I talked to him a little about it last year.  He says it's a little tiring but just have fun with it.
Q. I know you know a lot of guys down here.  Is there anyone in particular you're excited to hang out with or play with?
MYLES TURNER: Not necessarily, man.  A lot of these guys were in my high school class, so I've been knowing these guys for a while now.  It will be a fun experience.
Q. Got any plans, anything you want to do while you're in New Orleans?
MYLES TURNER: Definitely going to Cafe du Monde for beignets and get some good Creole food as well if I can find a spot for that.
Q. Is this one of your favorite cities to come on road trips?
MYLES TURNER: Yes, anything in the south.  I love the south.  I love the warm weather this time of year and some good food too, good people as well.
Q. Talk about the Mount Rushmore, the big men in the league at the moment.  Who would you pick?
MYLES TURNER: At the moment?  Got to put DeMarcus Cousins there.  Karl-Anthony Towns is doing his thing, I'd say Karl.
Q. Myles, your favorite moment in All-Star history?
MYLES TURNER: Favorite moment in All-Star history -- man, I'd probably say Nate Robinson.  I kind of grew up in that era with the whole dunk contest there.  When he was doing his thing, that was pretty cool to watch and experience.  So Nate Robinson dunk contest.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT