ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
July 1, 2019
Jason Holder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Sri Lanka - 338-6, West Indies - 315-9   
THE MODERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, we thank you for joining us.  We have our captain, Jason Holder.  Anyone want to start?   
 Q.  Jason, how do you assess that game?  A fantastic game of cricket if you won.  If you are a neutral, some great innings, but you didn't get over the line.  
JASON HOLDER: Yeah, that seems to be a trend here in this World Cup for us.  You know, we have had a few close games, but we have just been unable to get over the line.  You can look back in hindsight and pinpoint a number of areas in this game.  I don't think we fielded particularly well.   
You know, probably gave up 30 to 40 runs in the field.  Yeah, when we were batting, I felt we were always in the game with a shout and we just lost wickets at crucial stages and, you know, you can also say that the run-outs were probably gifted wickets, and probably what we didn't want at that stage.   
 Q.  Just on the run-outs, Jason.  How difficult is it to manage that from off the field when you can see people getting a bit nervous and you know they are critical wickets at vital stages of the match?  How do you sort of assess that, guys going out to the ground to bat afterwards?  
JASON HOLDER: Oh, man, it's virtually impossible to control off the field.   
Yeah, you can probably sense one or two things in the dressing room and you get a message out, telling them to calm down a little bit.  But both of them, for me, was against the run of play and unnecessary.  Unfortunate but I don't think it should be happening really at this level.   
 Q.  Carlos at Old Trafford obviously and Nicholas here.  If there is one thing to take away from this World Cup it must be, you must be delighted with the never-say-die attitude in the camp?  
JASON HOLDER: Yeah, we have shown some fight in this entire campaign.  Yeah, I'm proud of certain individuals who have definitely put their hands up and put their heart on the line.  And that is what we want.  We want guys to just give their all.  When you leave the cricket field, make sure you don't have anything in the body left to be given.   
And credit to Nicholas.  I thought he played an outstanding innings today.  He batted maturely and he got boundaries, you know, he knocked it around as easily as he possibly can.   
And then obviously a knock like Fabian, a knock like what Fabian played, is exceptional as well.  Again, unfortunate with the run-out.  But the young talent is there, the young talent is there.  It's just a matter for us to bring it together more often and get over the line.   
 Q.  How disappointing is it like -- you came with a lot of promise in the tournament -- how disappointing is it to see that things not going your way despite some really good performances by individuals?  What do you think needs to be looked into in the next few years after the World Cup?  
JASON HOLDER: Firstly, it's disappointing, definitely disappointing to come so close on a number of occasions and not get over the line.   
Yeah, secondly, in terms of talent we have, we have just got to find ways to manage it, you know, manage the talent we have, you know, put things in place to make sure that they are developing.   
And if we don't put things in place to make sure they are developing, we come in four years' time and probably see similar results.  So it is just a matter for us to look after them, look after all our players, try to manage them as best as we possibly can.   
When they go back home and go into their franchises, we need to put things in place for them to develop.   
 Q.  Jason, were the players expecting Rihanna to turn up to today's game?  
JASON HOLDER: No, it was a pleasant surprise.  It was great to see her here.  I just want to personally thank her for coming out.  I guess it's not easy for a celebrity to come down (smiling) to Durham to watch the West Indies play.  But I'm sure the boys felt her presence in the stands and she came down to the dressing room as well and met quite a few of the players and that was also refreshing.   
 Q.  Jason, another word on your assessment of Nicholas's innings.  Because he has always been seen as a very promising talent, he's just played ten ODI games so far and this is his biggest ever score that he's made.  Do you see him, this innings, as a one that will make a jump?  You have seen other young players and how they develop.  What is your reckoning of what this innings will do for him?  
JASON HOLDER: What I have seen here of Nicholas prior to this entire World Cup is nothing surprising to me.  What he's produced here is exactly what we expect him to produce.  Ideally, we want him to get better and we want him to improve and he would only improve over a period of time.   
We have selected him for a reason and we give him full backing, you know, we give him full confidence to go out there and play the game that he knows he needs to play.   
Yes, he will make mistakes, he is a young player, and it is just important again for development to continue to take place for him and development...  Learning is part of his development and he just needs to learn from the scenarios that he has put himself into.   
And we all need to learn from the scenarios that we have been faced with in this World Cup as well.   
 Q.  One more.  What are the expectations you have for him?  What is your vision for him in five years, ten years from now?  
JASON HOLDER: Again, once we look after Nicholas as best as we possibly can, we create an environment for him to learn and develop and I expect big things from him.   
He's got the talent, he's got the ability to change gears, he's very skilled and he can improvise.  He's got pretty much every shot in his locker.  It's just a matter for him to put it together more often than not.   
But I think we as a body, West Indies Cricket Board body, we have got to make sure that we can have things in place to continue to help these players to develop.   
 Q.  You have been a young captain -- and you are still a young captain leading younger guys as well.  How confident do you feel that the development that you talk about is going to happen between now and the next World Cup for West Indies?  
JASON HOLDER: Well, I can tell you now, I mean, definitely in this World Cup, you have done, or I have done lots of thinking and finding, well trying to find ways and means of which we can continue to improve.   
Definitely is a situation where we have got to sit down as a management group, you know, as leaders of the organisation, and find things to put in place.   
We can't let talent go to waste.  It is our responsibility to make sure that we harness this talent as best as we possibly can and make sure that these guys get better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT