ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
March 5, 2015
Jason Holder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jason, this is traditionally a very fast pitch.JASON HOLDER: Tomorrow we'll make a decision on that.  Obviously, the conditions here seem to fair the fast bowler, but as I said we'll have to make a decision tonight and announce it tomorrow.Q. There is a loss of (Indiscernible) from India team for this match.  Are you aware of that?JASON HOLDER: Well, to be honest, you've just made me aware of it.  I wasn't really following or aware of any problems with India.  Obviously, we just need to do what is required of us.  We just need to execute our plans and be aggressive towards them.  Once we start being aggressive towards it sets the tone for the rest of the game.Q. Once the team (Indiscernible) day before yesterday.  You just only did One Day practice before this?JASON HOLDER: As far as I know, Gil turned up to practice the last time and we had practice and today, so that makes two.  Everybody's good to go.  We've had some days off, obviously, so we just try to manage our players well so they'll be fresh enough for this game tomorrow.  It's an important game and it's a must-win for us, so we're just trying to get everybody fresh and ready to go.Q. In this World Cup (Indiscernible)?JASON HOLDER: Well, his knowledge goes a long way.  He's played the game before and been successful.  So he'll just try to impart his knowledge amongst the bowlers and by extension the entire team.  Yes, there have been some large top goals in the competition, and having (Indiscernible) doesn't make it any easier.  We've just got to be disciplined and specific in what we want to do at particular stages of the game, and just execute.  Execution is the key.Q. (Indiscernible).  Do you think this kind of pitch is good for bowlers like you?JASON HOLDER: Yeah, traditionally the WACA has presented a lot of bumps and pits.  I've played here before and I've enjoyed the conditions here.  I'm sure tomorrow will be no exception to that.  But having said that, you still have to use the conditions in your favor.  I think it's important that you just hit your good areas and a good bowler is a good bowler.  Any given bats on any particular day.  So the more good bowls you string together, the better off you'll be in the game.Q. If you could just continue on that theme because you played the first two ODIs here.  What does this mean to you?JASON HOLDER: It means a lot to me.  Personally, I was making my debut here.  It was a dream come true.  To be able to play for West Indies against Australia here in my first game it just touched me a bit.  Being back here now I would just like to improve on my performance from last time, and having said that, I'll do everything in my power to enhance our chances of winning.Q. (Indiscernible)?JASON HOLDER: Yeah, it's cricket.  It's sports.  You have good days, you have bad days.  You obviously have people around you that make your experience a little more come at the point, and you go back to the drawing board after each performance.  Obviously, I've had a bad bowling effort in a sense in the last game. But the way I look at it, I just try to learn from it, and I'm not too worried about it.  That's gone.  That is in the past, and I've taken a lot from it.  So I'm really looking forward tomorrow to just coming back stronger.Q. (Indiscernible) are you looking if the match-up was today?JASON HOLDER: I think it's important to take it game by game.  Obviously, we have India tomorrow.  I think it's important that we beat India first and move into our last preliminary game against UAE.  But I don't want to look too far down the road.  I think it's important to look at each particular game as it comes.  Tomorrow is India, so we'll put all our focus into India tomorrow.Q. (Indiscernible)?JASON HOLDER: Obviously, they have good players and players that are in form.  You know, Virat has been phenomenal for them over the last years.  They have Shikhar Dhawan who has been in some form, and you have players like Raina and MS Dhoni.  You know, but cricket is played on a day, and I back my bowlers to execute their plans, putting them back and setting them on the back foot.  But they have a pretty good lineup and some good quality players.  We've planned for them and we're just looking to execute our plans tomorrow.Q. We've seen quite a few batsmen go beyond 150 and we've seen teams go for 400.  You've been on both sides of that so far.  How hard is it with the ball.  Is it a bowling games (Indiscernible)?  Bowlers really seem to struggle.JASON HOLDER: That is a tough question in terms of trying to work to keep these scores down.  I think me personally, the way I look at it, I think we have to limit batsmen scoring on one side.  You know, you have to just in a sense narrow down your options just to one or two things and try not to cater to too many things.  I think the more we actually spend pondering on the actual field and fielding restrictions, it makes life a little more difficult in a sense.  I think the quicker we forget about it, we'll try to come up with ways to execute and be successful, the better off we would be. But I wouldn't take away the fact that having (Indiscernible) outside the ring is quite tough.Q. Anything from (Indiscernible) who has played here and any information from him?JASON HOLDER: He has been around obviously being in the tournament selectors.  He's had numerous chats with the players one-on-one, and I'm sure he's imparted his knowledge amongst the entire group.  He's a very knowledgeable guy.  He's been successful before, obviously.  So his opinions go a long way and his expertise go a long way, so the guys really cherish that.Q. Jason, Darren Sammy is someone who (Indiscernible).JASON HOLDER: We've got quality batsmen.  I think if you look at this, we've gone in excess of 300 on three or four occasions.  Each game somebody has stepped up and taken the mount for themselves.  We have Marlon Samuels who has done a good job, and Jonathan Carter who is coming into his own.  Yeah, Darren is obviously missed, but I don't think it's a big hole left in the team.  We have guys to fill the bill.Q. (Indiscernible) any technique you can use?JASON HOLDER: I've picked up a lot from Dhoni.  He's a good leader.  He's a guy who is respected in the dressing room.  Going about my career I tend to look at a few players and look at a few things people do, not particularly MS Dhoni, but successful players who have played cricket before.  I just try to take bits and pieces from everybody and try to put it together into one.Q. Jason, do you think (Indiscernible) gives you the best chance to win?JASON HOLDER: As I said before, cricket is played in a day.  Yesterday I had a pretty good batter who seems to be in good form.  But I think tomorrow if we come in here early, we're very disciplined with what we do, I think we'll get the better of them initially and put some pressure on them and at least try to finish off the innings.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT