ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 27, 2015
Jason Holder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Jason, you must be quite tired of AB de  Villiers by now.  JASON HOLDER: Yeah, AB played a very good innings today.  I thought we were well in the game when he came to the crease, but he was his normal, exceptional self.  Credit to him.  I thought he played well and took the game away from us in the end.   Q.  Jason, with AB, because it's happened a few times now, do you just feel as though there's no area of the ground you can defend or you can sort of force him to play into?  JASON HOLDER: It's a difficult question.  He obviously scores around the ground.  Whenever he gains momentum, he's difficult to stop.  Having said that, we tried to execute some yorkers and we just didn't land them.  Having said that, he created room which most batsmen probably wouldn't have. I think we must give him credit.  I mean, he's not in a sense an easy player to take down.  In the stage when he came to the crease, whenever he came to the crease, they were well poised in a sense, but we were still   we still had the run rate.  We didn't grasp, but the platform was basically set for him so he played his free innings, and unfortunately we didn't come up with answers today for him.   Q.  Can you please explain why Marlon Samuels and Chris Gayle only bowled six overs when they were arguably your most successful bowlers on the day?  JASON HOLDER: I thought at that stage where we had Chris bowling, he was bowling just before the powerplay.  He's not necessarily a powerplay option for us, but he was going well.  It's just a judgment call at that time.  We felt that we needed to just bring back a strike bowler at that stage because we had two new batsmen next in Rossouw and de  Villiers that were relatively new batsmen at the crease, so we just felt we needed to get a strike bowler in to try to get a wicket.   Q.  Losing is one thing but losing so badly, and looking at the overall situation in that group, next round could play a big role coming down to the end, really puts the West Indies on their back foot now.  JASON HOLDER: I wouldn't say it puts us onto the back foot.  We still have two games left.  We just need to take it one game at a time; we have to deal with India next in Perth, and we're going to be aggressive.  We're going to play our normal style of cricket.  We obviously have areas to improve on in terms of our death bowling and still if we could try to get a few more dot balls into the middle overs, and I think once we do that we're still a force to be reckoned with in this competition. Today was just the first off day with the bat.  It's a daunting task trying to chase 400, and so you have to go hard initially trying to get the runs, and we just didn't get any momentum going today unfortunately.   Q.  What was going through your mind at the end when AB de  Villiers was tearing off because your first five overs went for nine and your last two overs went for 64.  That would have been quite harrowing for any bowler.  JASON HOLDER: Yeah, at that stage, I just tried to get him off strike.  He was obviously in full flow, and my main thing was just to get him off strike and just try to bowl a few more balls than I did when he just came to the crease.  The drop chance off my bowling didn't help; the drop chances off of Russell's bowling didn't help, and I think if you take away my last over, well, my last two overs, which AB really took me apart, I think it would have been a different story. I think during those times we just need to see if we can keep playing off the strike if we can't get them out, and we need to hold our chances, so we just didn't hold our chances.   Q.  Did you feel you were doing all you could?  JASON HOLDER: Yeah, it's a tough task.  Obviously with four fielders only being there, it's very, very tough, trying to contain players.  I also thought the wicket was a very good batting track, and if you didn't hit your stretch you could have gone around the park.  But it's difficult to have just four fielders outside the circle and just trying to work with it.   Q.  How is your personal confidence at the moment?  Obviously you played well towards the end of the innings tonight even though I guess the game had well and truly run away, but how are you feeling about your own game, I suppose, and leadership of the team?  JASON HOLDER: Pretty good with my game at the moment.  I think if you analyze my bowling today, one player took me out in a sense.  It happens.  I just need to figure out what I can do better when things like that happen.  My batting, we had really nothing to lose, but we needed to get some runs on the board, try to help our run rate.  Just try to be positive and try to stay out there.  I was struggling a bit with cramp and felt like I couldn't go off.  I just had to fight through it and try to put some runs on the board for the team.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT