ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 20, 2015
Jason Holder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jason, it's only been six matches as captain.  But your bowling figures don't stack up against the ones before that.  Are you enjoying the captaincy or is it a bit of a burden on you as a bowler?JASON HOLDER: It's not a burden on me.  I'm enjoying it at the moment, just trying to do my best for the team.  I had a pretty decent series with the ball against South Africa.  Thus far here, haven't gotten a wicket yet in this last game, but I'm in very good spirits and very comfortable with everything at the moment.Q. From all reports the mood in the camp seems to continue to be upbeat despite the loss.  So far you seem to have at least gotten that aspect of it right.JASON HOLDER: Yeah, we can't let our defeats get us down.  Obviously we lost a game against Ireland and it was a pretty tough loss, but if we get ourselves down, it's hard to pick ourselves back up, so we just tried to keep the mood going.  We've obviously addressed a few issues, which we have.  We didn't bowl particularly well in the last game, so that's a big concern for us, so we're just trying to correct things here in these next   well, at least today and yesterday in terms of our preparation, just going into tomorrow's game with full confidence.Q. And the reports of both Benn and Sammy sort of having back stiffness, et  cetera, the last few days, how are they, and do you have a full squad to select from?JASON HOLDER: Well, obviously Benn missed our last game two days back soreness.  Sammy has been fighting through it.  We've gotten Benn to a stage where I think he's going to be a lot better off than what it was in the first game against Ireland.  Tomorrow we should have a full complement to choose from.Q. How do you look at the Pakistan side, especially after the way they played against India, and I'm sure you guys would have watched that match, as well, carefully?JASON HOLDER: Well, Pakistan lost their first game against India, so we both started the campaign with a loss.  It's important that we take this game very seriously as we have the first few games that we had, and we just look to execute our plans.  I think what is clear for us, if we execute our plans and we just carry out what we want to do, we can be very successful.  It's just about being consistent as I spoke about previously and just trying to execute our plans.Q. Irfan, the mainstream bowler of the Pakistan team, is there any fear element in this West Indies team as far as Irfan is concerned, and are you going to attack him or how will you defend Mohammad Irfan generally?JASON HOLDER: We had a series against him previously, I think it was last year in the Caribbean, so we've seen what he has.  Obviously we've seen some more footage of him over the years, and we know what to expect.  We're obviously going to formulate our plans and just try to counter him.Q. You did your planning with Sunil in mind, and to miss him at such a crucial stage, how difficult is it to probably lead all your strategies, and how much do you miss him in this World Cup?JASON HOLDER: Well, Sunil is obviously a very good bowler.  He's ranked in the top ten in ODI cricket and he's done tremendously well for us over the years.  For him to miss any team is a big loss.  We've just got to move on from that.  We have capable players in the likes of Sulieman Benn and Nikita Miller who are two quality spinners for us, as well, so it's a lot about them getting the opportunity and just performing for us.Q. Obviously two very similar teams in the sense that both teams can be mercurial one day and very mediocre on the other.  Apart from that you both are missing two of your best bowlers, Sunil Narine, and they're missing Saeed Ajmal.  Do you look at this clash as a clash of equals, or is it just a coincidence that you guys just laugh about?JASON HOLDER: It's a very good question.  Obviously we both haven't been playing up to our potential, and we've lost a few players.  I'm sure it should be a very entertaining game, and I guess whoever executes their plan better on a given day will come out on top of the game.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT