ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 15, 2015
Jason Holder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.You must be looking forward to New Zealand. In 2010 you were here, you were the West Indies' most successful bowler in the World Cup campaign at that point in time. Are you looking forward to these conditions?    JASON HOLDER: Yeah, this is my third time here to New Zealand. I've enjoyed the conditions thus far. It's obviously a place I've done well before, so I'm just looking forward to starting well against Irelandtomorrow.       Q.A lot of talk back in the Caribbean about the mood in the dressing room, the camaraderie amongst the players. It's important that you set it straight now?    JASON HOLDER: Well, everything is done and dusted in my opinion. We've moved on from it, as I said in previous press conferences. It's beyond our control, so we just put it behind us, and we're ready to gotomorrow.       Q.What about a commitment from the senior guys towards this campaign?    JASON HOLDER: It's been there. It's been there all the time. The guys have been very energetic. They've put in a lot of hard work behind the scenes. Obviously we didn't get the results we wanted previously, but we are just upbeat to gotomorrow.       Q.Have you got a thought on the balance of your team fortomorrow? Lendl wasn't fit in South Africa. Does that change the dynamic of what you think you'll do with the batting order?    JASON HOLDER: I wouldn't say change the dynamics in a sense. Lendl has been an integral member of our squad for the last few seasons and he's done well, so he's now come back into fitness, so we'll see what happenstomorrowin terms of our 11.       Q.Are you excited about potentially be being able to pair Jerome and Kemar Roach together? Kemar had injury problems in South Africa, as well.    JASON HOLDER: It's a good combination we have there. Obviously Jerome and Kemar's record speaks for itself. They're two quality boys up front for us, and it would be good to have them both on the parktomorrow.       Q.You talk about moving on from what's happenedtomorrow, but how easy is it when you've been through some of the heavy defeats, especially at the start of your captaincy? How easy is it to put those behind you and look at each day as a fresh start?    JASON HOLDER: It's not that hard in my opinion. Obviously you go through tough times in cricket, and it's important that you just move on from it, take whatever you can from it and just move on positively from it. In a sense we start a new campaigntomorrow. I think it's important that we all just put our minds on it and look forward to playing good cricket for West Indies.       Q.Obviously Ireland one of the associate nations you're playingtomorrow. What do you know of the team?    JASON HOLDER: We had a series against them last year, and it was a pretty good series for us. We've seen a few of their players over the years. A few of them play county cricket, so we've done our research on them. They're not to be underestimated, but having said that, we are very confident going intotomorrow'sgame.       Q.There have been patches in their warm‑up games, lost to Afghanistan and beaten by Scotland who very nearly beat you, but they had a good bounce‑back game against Bangladesh, so do they have a fair amount of confidence coming into this game do you think?    JASON HOLDER: Yeah, I would think anybody starting a new campaign such as the World Cup would have confidence coming into it. Having said that, I think we're ready to go. All the preparation is done. It's just about going into this game now and just giving our all and putting a good performance on.       Q.What do you think about the conditions out there? What do you think of the wickets?    JASON HOLDER: We played here last year. It was a pretty decent game. I think New Zealand got some runs. We also did well in trying to chase them. From what I remember it's been a good pitch for batting, but we'll see how it goestomorrow. I've had a look at the pitch yesterday, and there was quite a bit of grass on it, so we'll just see how it looks today and move forward.       Q.Obviously there's going to be a bit of movement perhaps for the bowlers out there and a bit of work for the batsmen to do, as well?    JASON HOLDER: There's normally movement here in New Zealand. All the pitches are quite slow, but there's normal movement for the ball, so whatever we can add will be positive for us.       Q.The warm‑up matches obviously haven't gone to plan; do you agree with that, to have a near loss to Scotland and a heavy defeat?    JASON HOLDER: I wouldn't say they haven't gone to plan. We obviously set our plans within our team. Just try to see different combinations, players performing different roles. We've got a lot to warm up again, so I just think we'll be ready to gotomorrow.       Q.Do you see Ireland as a dangerous team, or do they have realistic pretensions of qualifying, making the top four?    JASON HOLDER: As I said before, they're not to be underestimated. Every team in this World Cup I think is truly able to win the World Cup, so we're just going to start from ball one and start playing fresh, very hard, aggressive cricket.                   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT