ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
February 8, 2015
Jason Holder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You're still quite new to the job.  What does this mean for you to be leading the West Indies in the World Cup?JASON HOLDER: Well, it's a huge thing for me, obviously.  I'm 23 years old.  I'm the youngest captain ever, so it's a big thing for me.  Obviously the bigger picture is for the team to do well in this World Cup and starting the World Cup well and carrying the momentum through.Q. You played England and you had a warm-up game tomorrow, how do you assess England's challenge, and how important is that from that game in your point of view?JASON HOLDER: Well, it's an important game.  It's a good gauge to see where we're at.  Obviously we had the tour of South Africa, so not sure about cricket.  So it's just finding our combination and getting things ready.  Just fine tuning a few things and going into this year.Q. You had this amazing World Cup tradition, obviously times haven't been good since then.  Where do you see the stage of West Indies cricket, particularly One-Day-wise at the moment?JASON HOLDER: We've no doubt been inconsistent.  There is no doubt we haven't played the best cricket of our ability.  Having said that, I think we have some real batters on our team.  We have match winners on any given day.  It's about putting a complete game together and being consistent throughout this tournament.Q. Just picking up on Chris Gayle, I mean, this is going to be a great stage for him.  How big a player is he going to be for you in this World Cup do you think?JASON HOLDER: No doubt Chris is a big player for any team he's played for.  He's been one of the most prolific bowlers for us in the last few years.  So just for Chris to play himself, be his normal self and just get the best out of him.Q. The recent problems around the team surrounding the tour of India.  Can you tell us the status of that now?  Have things calmed down because of the arguments over money?JASON HOLDER: Well, we've moved on from that, to be honest.  What happened in India, happened in India, and we've just got to accept the consequences of it.  As a team we've moved on from that and made a choice, and here we are.Q. How have you managed to move on because it's a very serious problem for the team.JASON HOLDER: Obviously, no doubt to lose two players of the caliber of Bravo and Pollard is a huge loss for any team.  But as I said, it's beyond our control.  At this present time we have to accept it and move on.Q. You said you're one of the youngest captains in West Indies cricket.  How will it be for you to captain (No microphone) who has been around for so long, and such a big personality?JASON HOLDER: I see it as just a normal thing.  I've obviously built a relationship with some of the senior players.  I've not been thrown into it without knowing the players.  I've been around them for a little while now.  So it's just about finding our relationship now as a captain.  It's not been that difficult thus far.  Obviously, we didn't do too well in South Africa, but we didn't have our full strength team. Having said that, I just don't think it's a huge thing at the moment.  I have a pretty good relationship with most of the guys and I'm just trying to build a relationship as a captain.Q. (No microphone)?JASON HOLDER: No, it's not intimidating to me.  As I said, we get along pretty well as a unit, so we're just trying to get the best out of everybody at this present time to do what's best for West Indies cricket.Q. The lack of Pollard and Bravo (No microphone)?JASON HOLDER: As I said before, they are two players who have done well in world cricket.  At this present day they're not here and that's beyond our control.  So we have to accept that and move on.Q. When you say beyond your control, how's that?JASON HOLDER: It's just beyond our control.  I'm not (No microphone), it's just beyond our control.  It's just for us to get on to park and do what's best for West Indies cricket.Q. Huge responsibility leaving the West Indies with all the expectations and history of West Indies cricket.  Was the captaincy something you had to think twice about or has it come to you quite easily?  (No microphone)?JASON HOLDER: That's a good question.  I've seen myself to be a leader in most teams I've put myself into.  Having said that, I've led teams before.  I led West Indies 19-under, I was vice captain on the West Indies team, so it's not something that I'm fresh or not accustomed to. Having said that, it's a big stage on the international stage.  It's just about adjusting and getting that relationship between your players and myself, and just trying to get the best for West Indies cricket.Q. (No microphone)?JASON HOLDER: No, obviously I have to think about it.  It's a delicate time on that stage.  So I gave it some thought and spoke to a few players around the dressing room, and it came up to be my decision.Q. Do you feel the frustration of the people in the Caribbean that results haven't been everything that they're used to in the past?JASON HOLDER: As I said when I started this press conference, we have been inconsistent.  We've been inconsistent for a while.  I think we just have to get it right.  We just have to be more consistent on any given day to overcome most teams that we come up against.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT