ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 16, 2019
Jason Holder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We have our captain Jason Holder with us.   
 Q.  Any updates on Andre Russell?  
JASON HOLDER: We're keeping it cuttled until tomorrow.  I saw him yesterday.  Saw him this morning as well, and he's progressing quite nicely yes, you know.  We'll have a final answer with him tomorrow morning.   
 Q.  I saw Evin Lewis get struck in the nets as well.  Is he okay?  
JASON HOLDER: Yeah, quite a few people got struck in the nets, including myself, but he's fine.  Just a little bruise, should be fine.   
 Q.  The matches between these two teams are dominated by Bangladesh.  Do you feel -- obviously it's a different stage and different game -- but do you believe Bangladesh will be mentally ahead slightly?  
JASON HOLDER: If you want to put us in the underdog category, fair enough.  We've played them quite a bit in the recent past and they've gotten the better of us in recent past.  Like I said, different stage, lots at stake for this game.  We're all up for it.   
 Q.  You've had a bit of a tough run at the start of the tournament compared to a team like New Zealand, who have maybe some of the easy games up front.  Obviously, you're a little further back than you'd like to be at this stage.  But do you see a bit of a good run here, if you can beat Bangladesh maybe get on a roll still make the semifinals?  
JASON HOLDER: Interesting you said easy teams.  I don't feel any of the teams are easy, but we may -- at this present time with five games left, I think the ball's in our court, we've just got to be consistent.  We've got to play some consistent cricket going into the back half of this tournament.   
It's quite a good stage to pick up momentum as well.  And we're full confidence that we can do it.  We've just got to take it game by game.  Tomorrow is a challenge against Bangladesh, and we just want to get over Bangladesh and move forward.   
 Q.  Bangladesh rely heavily on the spinners.  And do you expect them to come with the same attack even in these conditions, even in this small ground?  
JASON HOLDER: Yeah, probably.  I don't want to sit here and try to perceive what they would come with, but we're open to anything.  Traditionally they rely heavily on their spinners.  We don't expect them to move too far away from it.   
It's a smallish ground.  I saw the wicket today as well.  There's quite a bit of grass on it.  We'll see how it plays tomorrow.  But we know what we're expecting in a sense from Bangladesh.  And I can't see them being much different from that.   
 Q.  Only recent times, Bangladesh won seven games out of nine with West Indies.  Do you think tomorrow is going to play this game with favourite attack?  
JASON HOLDER: I guess if you win seven over the last nine, as you said, probably, yes.  Yeah, it's the game of cricket.  We all saw -- we've all been seeing how this World Cup has panned out.  There are quite a few close games.  And there's one or two upsets as well, too.  So cricket is played on a day, and we're looking to play some good cricket tomorrow.   
 Q.  Concerned with the form of the batsmen top of the order, Evin Lewis and Darren Bravo?  
JASON HOLDER: Everybody is hungry for runs.  I guess a few guys haven't gone on and capitalized on a few starts that they have got on.  Some guys haven't really got on any starts.  It's another opportunity for them to come to the priority, to get some confidence going into the back half of this tournament.  And, yeah, starting tomorrow against Bangladesh.   
 Q.  How good a start for Pooran so far?  
JASON HOLDER: Pooran has been really good.  I'm really pleased with his progress so far.  He's shown a lot of maturity, which is really good for a young player.  And he's got quite a few shots in his locker.  And it's really good to see from a young talent.   
So I just want him to continue in the way he's been going at this, I guess, for him, making a mark for himself extremely hard.  He would like a hundred.  So let's hope tomorrow he steps up tomorrow and carries it deeper.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT