ICC CRICKET WORLD CUP
June 14, 2019
Jason Holder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
England - 213-2, West Indies - 212   
 Q.  Jason, do you think at this stage Andre Russell can get through a one-day game with his knees as bad as they seem to be?  
JASON HOLDER: It's been difficult so far for him.  We have been trying our best to keep him on the park, but it is proving difficult.  Yeah, going forward, we have to persist.  He is here for a reason.  We think he can be a match-winner for us.  We have just got to cope with him.  Got to do everything we possibly can with him to keep him on the park.   
 Q.  You think the risk is worth taking even after the last two games he hasn't got through his overs?  
JASON HOLDER: Yes.   
 Q.  Jason, how short of your best do you feel you were today?  
JASON HOLDER: Look, I thought losing the toss, asked to bat in bowler-friendly conditions... but having said that, I thought we got through the power play quite nicely, we were 41-1 I think at the end of the first ten overs which was a decent position considering the conditions.   
I thought we lost the game in the middle.  Every time we got something going, we lost a wicket.  We lost wickets at crucial stages.  I just think looking back in hindsight you have to build a few more partnerships and go deeper.  I thought Pooran played extremely well and he is an example of how we need to play on that pitch.   
 Q.  Did you feel at halfway you had a decent chance with two of England's top six obviously struggling with injuries?  
JASON HOLDER: Yes, we needed to make early inroads.  But we felt we had a really good chance at the halfway stage even though we felt we were still a few runs short.  Having said that, the way we have been bowling, we have been backing ourselves to get new-ball wickets.  It didn't happen for us today, well played England.   
 Q.  Obviously, England had the better of the conditions as you say, but is it frustrating because you are showing glimpses in snatches of play of really good bowling and batting?  Is it frustrating that you can't put together enough passages of play to really make a difference?  
JASON HOLDER: I think it's a good point.  We were showing glimpses of what we can produce here in this tournament so far and also in the recent past and in the past generally.  First, it is just a matter of bringing it together for long periods, stringing together a complete game and being consistent.  I have always spoken about consistency whenever I speak to you guys, so it's a matter for us to find it.   
We have to dig deep within to make sure we take the responsibility as batters and as bowlers we keep being aggressive.   
 Q.  You mentioned not getting early wickets.  What do you put that down to, Sir?  
JASON HOLDER: Look, it's just one of those days.  I felt the sun came out in the second half and the wicket flattened out.  We just didn't get new-ball wickets today and it is one out of four games that we have played and we haven't got new-ball wickets so it is just one of those days.   
 Q.  Do you regret bowling -- do you regret that the bowlers bowled so short?  
JASON HOLDER: No regrets.   
 Q.  No regrets?  
JASON HOLDER: (Shakes his head).   
 Q.  Are you still confident that you can qualify for the play-offs?  
JASON HOLDER: I think it would be very foolish not to be confident.  There's still a lot of cricket to be played in this tournament.  We have only played four games.  A hell of a lot of cricket left to be played.   
We have just got to be disciplined and make sure we come against Bangladesh firstly in our next game and make sure we beat Bangladesh.   
 Q.  How well did Joe Root bat today, did you think, Jason?  
JASON HOLDER: Yeah, Rooty played well.  He got off to a really good start, kept up with the momentum, and he played really well.  And, you know, he's a quality player.  Credit must be given to him.  I thought he really applied himself when he batted deep and batted entirely through.   
 Q.  How satisfied were you with your bowling and fielding performance today?  
JASON HOLDER: I think the bowlers tried.  Chasing, well defending 213 isn't easy.  We needed to pick up wickets.  We didn't get any new-ball wickets for the first time in the competition but we tried.  It wasn't for the lack of trying.  It just didn't happen for us today.   
 Q.  Can you give us an update on Shannon Gabriel?  
JASON HOLDER: Well, he bowled down to the end, you know.  He slipped at the very, very end and I think he's hurt.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT