SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 23, 2014
Tim Parun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   First off, you made it to the weekend.   What does it feel like, kind of how you played today and getting in? 
TIM PARUN:   Oh, it's nice today.   I had a lot of long putts, a lot of lag putts, I hit them all really well.   So it wasn't easy, I didn't hit the ball close to the hole. 
It feels good.   I felt like this is where I should be.   I was playing well enough to put myself in there.   I wish I had hit it a little bit closer and had a few more chances, because I feel like coming into this and playing this, that I could have scored fairly well.   I like the golf course.   I know it, so I think that was something where I felt comfortable on it. 

Q.   Your caddie was saying that on 8 you hit the ball a little bit astray off the tee and you had a good break there.   Talk us through that hole. 
TIM PARUN:   Got a great break.   Hit a really bad shot off the tee.   Probably had the wrong club, too.   Very fortunate that I, when I hit it, I thought it was gone and lost.   So you start to think, wow, that swing just did it right there. 
So not only was it found, but it was open and I had a shot.   Which is the plus, plus. 
So hit another shot, had another 40‑footer, and lagged it up there and 2‑putted. 

Q.   What did you know about the cut line?   Did you know coming in what you needed?
TIM PARUN:   You never know.   I did know after the first day, one, two was it and you just never know.   So I knew I was somewhere close and just had to keep going and whatever happened, happened.   Still finishing where I did, you don't know if that's the number. 

Q.   You're coming into this week, you're an alternate, didn't know if you were going to be in the field.   Talk me through how this week's been. 
TIM PARUN:   I guess, traditionally, where I was, I was told, you'll probably be in.   I thought I would have heard sooner.   So when it was as late as it was, I went, you know, this is the year I'm not going to get in and was almost thinking of not coming. 
Then talked to a few people, they said come.   And when I got here, I got in. 
So at that point you say, okay, it was meant to be, I kind of was figuring it was meant for me to get here. 
Then being at the golf course and just playing that first practice round, I go, you know what, I'm ready to play this.   Yesterday, kind of an up‑and‑down round, but I went, wow, that could have been the round that really puts me in contention. 
Coming out today, just felt good.   You're always, you don't want to think ahead of yourself.   So it was, let's just say I did a fairly good job of keeping myself back, because you always have the thoughts that jump ahead.   So it was a constant, keep your self back, here's another 50‑footer, lag it up.   Here's another 60‑footer or 40‑footer.   It was a pretty wild day.   I had kind of that middle of the hump that I had to go there and down each time.

Q.   And talk about the condition of the golf course. 
TIM PARUN:   Fabulous.   Unbelievable.   I think from wall to wall, tee to green, it is perfect.   It's just such a pleasure to play on it.   I love it.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT