SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 22, 2014
Tim Parun
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Talk to me overall about the round today and what a whirlwind week it's probably been for you.   
TIM PARUN:   Well, it's been fun.   I played here a couple years ago, I love this golf course.   It's pure.   
So we started off with a couple bogeys, a little shaky.   
Then go four birdies in a row and started just feeling good out there.   
So I think I missed a little short one on 8 for birdie.  
Then birdied 9 to make it ‑‑ I just lost my focus.   I had pretty good focus there and then I lost my focus on a few shots on the back nine.   So I kind of scrambled a little bit there to get in.   
Had a good chance to make birdies on 15 and 16 and didn't capitalize.   
So overall I felt like I played pretty good, just keep your focus on every shot and go from there.  
   
 Q.   What was you mentality after having three bogeys, but also five birdies on the front nine going to the back nine?   What was your mindset at that point?  
TIM PARUN:   Well, I felt really good about my game, so I was just like, let's keep it going.   
I lost focus on 10 and definitely on the drive and a couple shots there.   
So I felt like I gave a couple away on 10 and 11.   
But I was feeling really good about going to the back nine.   I like the golf course, I feel like I know the shots, so I was looking forward to coming in with a good score.   
   
 Q.   How does the course compare to when you last played it?  
TIM PARUN:   Let's see, plays about the same.   I think the grass, it's just pure right now.   It is pure from tee to green, every blade of grass.   So just spectacular.   Putting on these greens is fabulous.   I think it plays about the same.   Probably just a couple more years more mature.  
   
 Q.   What was your preparation like this week, first flying in from California as an alternate and then finding out you'll be in?   What was your practice like the last few days?  
TIM PARUN:   Pretty good.   I don't do a lot of practice anyway.   I just feel you have to get your mind right, get your attitude and your energy right.   So if I can do that ‑‑ and that's all the last couple days have been, I really haven't swung the club a lot the last few weeks.   So swinging it, I felt good with that.   
So it's all about your attitude.   It's just keeping calm and doing that.   I felt myself get a little excited out there on a couple shots and I go, okay, that's it, we just got to keep breathing and mellow out.  
   
 Q.   I imagine you have a lot of folks back in California cheering for you.   What's that like?  
TIM PARUN:   Yeah, it's good.   I've always had a lot of support and you have friends and they're coming back and sometimes your mind will drift, you know they're watching and doing that, but I'm out here, I'm really thankful to be here, and I figure you just got to go be yourself and let's keep that attitude really good.   Whatever happens, happens.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT