THE SENIOR OPEN PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 27, 2018
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Brandt, after 36 you have to feel pretty good about your position.  How is it going out there?
BRANDT JOBE: Yeah.  A little disappointing on my finish.  You know, I hit it in a few bunkers there and had to go sideways and made some bad -- not necessarily bad swings, but some mental mistakes, and those are worse than physical mistakes.  So wasn't really the finish I wanted, but yeah, I've played well the last couple of days.
Q. Can you explain maybe the difficulty of strategizing around this golf course?  Does it get any easier the more you play it?
BRANDT JOBE: No.  It's kind of funny, I was playing with Mark McNulty and he's been around here a lot more than I have, and we were saying the one unique thing about playing here is every day is different because the wind always blows different.  So it's like a different golf course every time you play.  That's the challenge of not getting to play it as much as you want to.  It's so different every day, and that's what's hard, trying to stay out of those little holes they dig in the ground here.
Q. Let me ask you about how you feel about your position going into the weekend considering perhaps you might have gotten the better end of the draw.  There's supposed to be weather coming in on the weekend and maybe these late guys might not have it quite as docile.
BRANDT JOBE: Yeah.  It was interesting.  I kind of felt like yesterday, kind of right when I teed off, it was humming.  And we played in a lot of wind yesterday, especially that back nine.  And early in the morning you saw real good scores.  Late in the afternoon you saw good scores.  And so today I think obviously the morning is going to be better, but unfortunately we didn't get to take advantage of the morning because we had a two-plus-hour delay.  So that was kind of a little bit unlucky.  Played in the wind, but 10 to 20, not docile conditions like in the morning.  So it's kind of been a weird couple of days here, but we'll see what happens.
Q. If the weather does kind of turn for the worse, how does that affect your position as a chaser?
BRANDT JOBE: Well, obviously the more difficult the conditions, the more value there is to par.  But I enjoy playing here when it's nice like this because I've played here when it's been bad, and it can be really bad.  So I'm keeping my fingers crossed.  It's going to get breezy.  I know that.  But hopefully not a ton of rain.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT