AT&T NATIONAL
June 28, 2012
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  BRANDT JOBE:   Compared to the U.S. Open last year, the greens are much firmer.   Tee to green is much faster, and the rough is much deeper.   So that combination makes it a little more difficult.  
   
 Q.   What was the key to you getting it around this golf course in 1‑under par today?  
BRANDT JOBE:   You know, I think having played here in like the Open conditions and knowing how you've got to be patient.   You're not going to make a lot of birdies, you're going to hit it in the rough, you're going to get lies you're going to have to chip out and just kind of accept all that and know that par is a good score and be happy with it.  
   
 Q.   You talked about the patience required.   Were there moments in the round today where you were like, all right, this is one where you just have to eat it?   
BRANDT JOBE:   You know me better than that (laughing).   No, I made back‑to‑back bogeys, actually a good bogey on 11 and kind of a bad bogey on 12, and I just kind of had to say, all right, put me back over par so you've kind of got to reset here and try and hit greens and fairways.   I eagled 16, which was nice, and then made a bad bogey on the last.  
   
 Q.   But still, you have to be pleased with where you are.   
BRANDT JOBE:   Oh, I am.   If you would have told me 1‑under before I played, I probably wouldn't have played.   It's not going to get easier, it's going to get more difficult as the day goes on.  
   
 Q.   Were you surprised they were able to keep the greens at this pace in this heat?  
BRANDT JOBE:   You know, the greens are so healthy, and I go back to a year ago, they weren't, and so they couldn't do it when we got that rain.   But they're so healthy, they're rolling true, and they've got them firm.   They've got the golf course right where they want it.  
   
 Q.   Why aren't you sweating?  
BRANDT JOBE:   I am.   I'm tired.   It felt like a U.S. Open round.   Not only is it physical out there and it's going to get hot, but just the grind of the golf course.   You just feel beat up when you get done.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT