CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 21, 2011
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Well-played out there today. 5-under par on the Palm. How were conditions there?
 BRANDT JOBE: It was tough. The wind was -- you know, trying to figure out how far the wind was going to go with as cool as what it was, it was difficult. Had a hard time getting the ball close, especially early in the round.

 Q. We had some rain early in the week. It was soft. Is the golf course starting to dry out a little bit?
 BRANDT JOBE: Not quite yet. There was a real heavy dew this morning we were talking about, and it was just kind of wet and picking up little bit of mud here and there. 
 For the Palm Course, I thought it played pretty tough.

 Q. You came into this year wondering what was going to happen; you've had a great year so far. What do you attribute that to? 
 BRANDT JOBE: You know, I wish -- if I knew, I would do it every year, right? But, no, the last three years have been tough. Just kind of got on a swing that I thought could work, and I been working actually really hard the last year and a half trying to get my ball-striking down and figure out how to do it. 
 Gone from a big fade to a draw now, which is a huge change visually. And it's been repeating itself. As you know, that's the key out here, is hitting the shots that you believe you can hit, and then doing it. So that adds the confidence. 

 Q. Well you appear to be doing it without losing any distance, too. 
 BRANDT JOBE: I'm getting older and longer. It's kind of cool. Thank you, technology. No, it's been good. I think drawing the ball has helped. You know, obviously picked up a few yards, too, so that's been nice.

 Q. Have you had any setbacks from the injuries at all?
 BRANDT JOBE: Well, I don't feel in my left hand and two fingers, so putting. I still struggle with that because if I hit my little index finger when I'm putting, it zings. 
 So imagine having a zinger over a three-footer. It's tough enough, isn't it? But we're getting there. Just got to figure out a good grip. Haven't figured out that part yet. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT