THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 5, 2011
Brandt Jobe
Matt Kuchar
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: We'd like to welcome the joint runner-ups of the 2011 Memorial Tournament presented by Nationwide. Great playing this week. I know both you guys made a nice charge today, but Steve Stricker did the same and he leaked a little bit of oil down the stretch, but he managed to win, but great playing by both of you.   
 BRANDT JOBE: Well, I guess I wouldn't imagine if we went out and shot 7-under that we wouldn't have had a better chance to win. But hats off to Steve, he played great today. To make the turn, and I think Matt and I were both 5-under, and I think we lost a shot to Steve. He was 6-under. You know, he won the golf tournament, and congratulations to him. He played great. It was a great week, obviously an incredible event, and conditions of the golf course were perfect. It was a fun tournament to play in, it is every time I've played in it, and I look forward to many more.   
 MATT KUCHAR: It was fun playing with Brandt today. We had it going. I think we fed a lot off each other, a lot of great shots. Any time you can see balls going in the hole things seem easier. It seemed easy playing with Brandt today, and we played some great golf.   
 It was a bummer when the horn went off. I think we kind of each knew we had good things going, a lot of momentum. 15 is a birdie hole that I think without the delay we'd feel a lot better about making a birdie out there. But Stricker had to go through the same thing, as well. Stricker was playing some awfully solid golf, and I imagine the delay slowed us all down a little bit.   
  
  Q. Brandt, for those who don't get to see you all the time, it's a pretty compelling story with what you've been through. I've read some places where you actually thought about maybe giving up the game. What were you going to do if you could not continue playing?   
 BRANDT JOBE: You know, that's a great question. I never quite got to that point. I definitely started thinking that way a couple years ago. Things were going so poorly that I really -- 2008 when I did come out here, it was pretty horrible.   
 You know, I got right there, and I think it kind of came to a point where you're so down on yourself, you're down on what's happened. Now, I can't change what happened; no one can. It was just I got to that low point where I said, I'm going to see how hard I can work and see if I can make this better and give it everything I've got, and if I can't, then at least I can walk away and say I tried. I got close. There were many nights, many sleepless nights with going through all the injuries.   
 But at the same point in time I think it's even more rewarding to be able to come back and play well, contend. You know, when I left off that's what I was doing, and the last three and a half years have been pretty slow. But the process for me has been working. It's getting better. I'm getting results, and that's good. I'm not getting any younger. But at the same time I am hitting the ball far enough and I'm doing the things I have to to play out here.   
 I'm excited about this week. Obviously disappointed it wasn't one place better, but at the same time there were some real positives that came from the week.  
  
  Q. Going back to the delay, what you were just talking about, how long of a delay does it take for you to feel like you lose momentum and how different did you feel when you came back out?  
 MATT KUCHAR: We definitely had the momentum. It was nice for me, I had a three-foot birdie putt on 14. Make that putt, it feels like all right, it's still going. I hit a good drive. But hitting balls on the range is not the same as hitting balls on the course. You're kind of in a flow. I hit a good drive, had a 3-wood that was a great distance for me. But it's a tough shot and one that's easier when you're in the flow of things. It takes a while to get back into it.   
 There were probably a couple guys that didn't come out hot, but it seems like Brandt and I had such good things going that it was a little bit of a slow start.  
  
  Q. Did you have to change your grip at all?   
 BRANDT JOBE: No, fortunately for me I put some tape on my thumb to keep it tight, which is on my glove, but I didn't have to change my grip because the glove helps me out when I'm in my swing.  
  
  Q. You've played a decent amount of golf with Steve, I'm sure, over the years?  
 BRANDT JOBE: I have.  
  
  Q. He's now No. 4 in the world, the top-ranked American. Any thoughts as to why he's not a bigger superstar?   
 BRANDT JOBE: Well, Steve is kind of a humble guy. He's a Midwest guy. That's his personality. He's one of the few guys that's won a lot of times that still sheds a tear when he wins.   
 I think Steve is Steve. He's very down-to-earth, and I don't think he draws attention to himself. Not that it's negative or positive, but I think he kind of enjoys the way things are, and he's playing great.   
  
  Q. As successful as you are obviously, do you need wins to validate you or do you feel like as well as you're playing that's good enough?   
 MATT KUCHAR: Wins are hard to control. Certainly I'd love to win. That's why we're all out here.   
 But you look at this week as a perfect example. I wouldn't say I'd do a whole lot different. I played some great golf for four days. They're hard to control. You walk away from this week awfully happy with -- I gave it what I had. I played some great golf, and you can't control what the other guys do. I just try to control my thoughts, my process, and it's been going well. I'm awfully pleased.   
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Gentlemen, thank you very much.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT