THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE INSURANCE
June 5, 2011
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Not even a pair of 65s looks like it's going to be able to catch up to Steve Stricker. 
 BRANDT JOBE: Hats off to Steve. He played great. I thought if we would have gone out and shot 65 that might have been good enough, but it looks like we're going to be a little short. It was his tournament to kind of win or lose and he's going out there and winning it.

 Q. Did you guys feed off of each other out there?
 BRANDT JOBE: I think we did. We got a nice rhythm after a few holes and kind of started exchanging birdies. We hit a lot of good shots, a lot of good putts and we had a nice day. It was fun.

 Q. What did the weather delay do to affect your momentum? How did you stay focused?
 BRANDT JOBE: I think it slowed -- personally slowed me down a little bit, just -- we were just kind of in a nice rhythm and going, and I hit a bad tee shot on 15, exchanged that 6 for a 4 and all of a sudden it's a different ballgame. So for me that was really the only bad tee ball I hit all day, so it obviously had an effect. That was my first swing of the day, and it was a bad one. That's golf, though, too.

 Q. If I told you 15-under --
 BRANDT JOBE: Let's go home. Isn't that a good score out here usually? No, it was a great week. Hats off to this golf course. It was in fantastic shape, and thank you, Mr. Nicklaus, for giving us the opportunity to do this because it's a great tournament and I'm looking forward to next year.

 Q. What does this do for you in terms of your comeback?
 BRANDT JOBE: Well, obviously it's definitely a step in the right direction. I hit the ball -- the last 36 holes the ball-striking was fantastic. I made some putts, got in the middle of things and hit better shots. That's what we're all trying to do is when the heat is on, what are you going to do? I was trying to birdie 18, trying to set myself up the best I could. I'm going to take a lot of positives from this week, no doubt about it. It was a fun week. It has to be fun. This is what we do.
 If you go back a few years ago, I would have died to play in a TOUR event. You've got to love this; this is fun.

 Q. How rewarding is this compared to where things were in 2006? 
 BRANDT JOBE: You'd have to ask my wife. I drove her crazy for a few years. But it is, this is what we work to do. I mean, this is the adrenaline rush, this is what it's all about. You know, it's Sunday, one of the premier events that we have, and having a chance to win, this is what it's all about. Obviously the things I'm doing are working, which is great, and I've just got to keep with the process. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT