WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 5, 2011
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 69 in the opening round. Tough way to finish, but talk about the way the golf course performed.   
 BRANDT JOBE: I'll tell you what, it played tough. Right when we started the wind started to pick up and it was about 45 degrees, probably blowing 10 or 15 out of the north. It was down right cold. It was tough. I mean, the front nine was difficult.   
  
  Q. But you got it around. At 45 years old you still have plenty of length.   
 BRANDT JOBE: Fortunately I've still got a little length. A little age, too. I hit a ball pretty well and made a couple good putts and just kept the ball in play. That was really the key, made a couple key putts, and didn't do anything spectacular, but it added up well.  
  
  Q. Your reaction to your second shot at 18, I could see it from 200 yards away, like how in the world am I going to two-putt that?  
 BRANDT JOBE: You know what, we were standing back there and I'm in between hitting a 6-iron and a 5-iron. Then we went down, I hit a little 6 right at it. I'm posing thinking this is perfect, and I'm 40 feet and now I've got to worry about putting it off the green, and I'm thinking, what did you just do. Not a good way to finish. Perfect drive, perfect iron shot, and the wind completely laid down on us on the last hole, the last shot. Tough two-putt, and I didn't get it done, so there you go.   
  
  Q. You've been playing well, particularly well since Houston. What's been the difference?  
 BRANDT JOBE: I think I've kind of had to make a lot of changes, with all the injuries, in my swing. I used to be a big fader of the ball, and I can't do that anymore because I can't feel it, can't time it out. So made some changes in my golf swing, and now I'm actually drawing the ball a little bit. It's kind of different for me, yeah, and I'm starting to trust it, and I haven't had any trust here for a few years. I'm starting to trust what I'm doing, and you throw in a couple putts here and there, and it's been pretty solid.   
  
  Q. At the end of the day where do you think you'll be?  
 BRANDT JOBE: Well, if the wind stays up, I'll be in decent shape. If the wind dies down, which is what I heard it's supposed to do, I think you'll see some good scores. The golf course is in great shape. The greens are rolling well. There's some par-5s you can reach today if it dies down, and I think you'll see some good scoring just with the golf course in good shape.  
  
  Q. Any surprises out there for you?  
 BRANDT JOBE: I was surprised my last shot went about 15 yards too far, but other than that, no. It's one of those courses I think you've got to be patient on, kind of take what it gives you, and today I got it going a little bit, but you've still got to be careful because there's a bogey right around the corner.   
  
  Q. Is it one of those days where after you have a little more time away from your round, you go, I'm in pretty good position?   
 BRANDT JOBE: Yeah, I think I'll walk away from it that I played a solid round of golf. The first day you just don't want to blow yourself out. That's all we're really trying to accomplish today. Anything under par in the morning is a good score, and hopefully tomorrow it'll warm up for us in the afternoon and we'll get a few more. Kind of got to wait and see and be patient with this weather.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT