U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 1, 2018
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about how tough it is out there and your feelings on that back nine.  
BRANDT JOBE: The greens were, they were -- it was like the U.S. Open, they were bumpy and fast.  Ball wouldn't stay on line.  I didn't give myself enough good chances, based on how I drove the ball.  I just kept hitting everything long, which didn't even make sense.  So it was frustrating because I drove it well enough to certainly shoot 3- or 4-under par today.  I just didn't take advantage of it.   
 Q.  You were in the chase.  So what was your thought process when you're battling there for that top spot?  
BRANDT JOBE: I kind of had it in my mind 4-under.  That's kind of where I was out there when I was a couple under.  Paul was at 3, I think Jerry was at 4 at the time.  And I had, gosh, I had, I didn't have more than an 8-iron into a hole.  It kind of got a little you know -- I hit a bad shot but I got unlucky on 15.  That ball, they fluffed the bunkers, which, whatever, but I mean a ball rolls in right to the middle of the bunker and you don't have a chance to advance it.  I couldn't -- there's no way, I purposefully went left so it wouldn't roll down the hill.  And it was a chunk because that's all I had.  Half the ball was maybe all I had rolling in the bunker.  So that sort of stuff sometimes to me cheapens the value of the tournament.  I don't think that stuff is necessary, but it's a hard enough shot with the way the greens are downwind and everything to even hold it.  I had two options, I could either try and blade it into the grand stands or hit it kind of in the left in the first cut and maybe try and get it up-and-down.  So that was frustrating.  But other than that, I just, I didn't do a good job managing my distances today.   
 Q.  You almost holed that putt, though, at 17.  
BRANDT JOBE: I thought I made the putt on 17, 16, and 18.  So I can't complain.  My putter was good.  I mean that kept me in the game today.  My short irons, I was just off.  I couldn't get my distance -- yesterday it's also one of those days where you go out there and you have a perfect number.  Today I never had, even into 17 I'm trying to hit it 141 yards.  Well, that's so close to hitting a pitching wedge and on that right pin I want to hit wedge because that's what I can score with, but I got to make birdie.  So it's just one of those days.  That's golf.   
 Q.  Did you feel any support from the Colorado crowds today?  
BRANDT JOBE: Yeah, even Paul mentioned, everybody was really nice.  Obviously fun to come back here.  I was excited, fun to play well in front of everybody.  A lot of friends and family and just people who have wished me well over the years.  So that was really neat.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT