CANADIAN OPEN
September 7, 2006
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thanks for joining us.  Jim Furyk set the course record with 63, but you weren't too much behind him with 6 under, 64.  Talk about the good day and the good start.
BRANDT JOBE:  For ball striking wise, kept it in the fairway, hit a lot of greens, made some good putts, some 10, 12, 15 foot putts that    a couple of good saves and kind of kept the round going.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You mentioned a couple of saves, but overall looking at your stats look like a pretty stress free day, no bogeys, hit 16 greens, does that kind of sum it up?
BRANDT JOBE:  Yeah, I was fortunate, I missed a couple    a couple of the fairways I missed, a couple of them were in the first cut, but one in    drove the ball well.  My iron play was decent, and putted pretty solid.  Overall, kind of stress free, and a nice day.
Q.  The course has a pretty good reputation based on how it played in 2003.  You lookout there today and it's like another planet.  I can't remember if you were here
BRANDT JOBE:  I didn't play in 2003.  Obviously everybody told me all about it and I heard all the stories, about how good the golf course was and is.  And I think with all the rain they got last week from the tropical storm and everything like that, the rain we've gotten earlier this week, it's pretty much impossible to have the same sort of golf tournament that you had in 2003.  But it's just a different golf course, so when you've got softer conditions and receptive greens, that makes the fairways a little larger and the greens more receptive.  I heard stories last year about how it's tough on the par 3s to keep it on the green.

The golf course is probably playing its easiest right now.  And I imagine by Sunday without any rain, if we keep the little breeze we have, things will dry out pretty nicely.
Q.  You were at the Tour Championship last year.  Can you recap your year this year, how it's gone?
BRANDT JOBE:  This year it's been a mess.  For me it's been a long year.  I've struggled a lot with drivers and having trouble finding a driver.  It's kind of done some crazy things from anyway golf swing, got me really off kind of from where I was last year.  And that's been frustrating, because last year    when you're playing well, obviously it's fun.  This year has been the exact opposite.  I haven't had a lot of fun playing golf.  It's frustrating.  You kind of got to the point where    last year I was waking up and I couldn't wait to play, regardless whether it was good or bad, it was exciting.  I felt like I was in control of what I was doing.

This year getting off of the swing and struggling with drivers has really kind of taken its toll.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BRANDT JOBE:  Everybody    my friends certainly tell me what's wrong.  But I worked with my same teacher and I think the frustrating thing for me was finding a driver.  The driver that worked well for me last year really isn't an option in play this year.  So I've kind of had to switch to a different model.  And in switching and going through that whole process I think I've done some bad things with my swing.  My teacher has been kind of trying to get me to do what I was doing, but it's hard to do because the driver wasn't reacting right.  It's kind of been a give and take.  When I find something I like, I'm not swinging well.  When I'm swinging well, I don't like anything.  I've spent a lot of time in the rough this year.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
BRANDT JOBE:  In the past it was the FT 2 which never came out on the market.  They didn't make mass quantities of the one I was playing, it was more of a test driver.  I kind of went through that whole era in heads.  There's not a thousand heads to look at, there's a few.  And I kind of exhausted my resources there, and obviously here going a new direction, which is totally understandable.  And I think we kind of pin pointed it last week.  My driver that I had been playing or the one that they've been trying to get me into has been very flat.  And we actually bored it out differently and brought the driver up about 3 degrees, more upright, and all of a sudden I'm starting to see some results.  I hit the driver pretty decent today, I wouldn't say great.  But I'm seeing the shots again and it's doing what it's supposed to do.  And I wasn't doing that pretty much all year long.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Talk about your birdies.
BRANDT JOBE:  Birdie on 10, I hit 3 wood, wedge, about three feet.

No. 12 I hit 2 iron, 9 iron about 12 feet.

On 2 I hit driver, 9 iron about 18 feet.

3, 3 iron, 7 iron about 20 feet.

4, I    for my third shot I had a wedge in and I hit it about six inches.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  You mentioned a couple of good saves.
BRANDT JOBE:  Made a good save on 7 and 8.  I missed a fairway on 7, got it on the front of the green and had about a seven or eight footer for par, trying to putt it up the mountain there, and I didn't get it there.

I hit a poor shot on 8 short of the green, had a tough chip and hit that about eight feet by and made that.

9, I hit driver, sand wedge about 15 feet and made that.
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT