BUICK INVITATIONAL
January 26, 2006
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOHN BUSH:  We'd like to welcome our leader at 7 under par, 65 today, Brandt Jobe.  Thanks for coming by and spending a few minutes with us.  Comment on the round.  Obviously it was a great day for you.
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, I putted great.  I mean, it wasn't really a great ball striking round, but I made a lot of putts today.
JOHN BUSH:  You came in with two straight top 20 finishes so you had good thoughts coming in.
BRANDT JOBE:  I like the South Course being long and tough and difficult.  I think that's kind of fun.  You kind of have one course that's a little easier and then one you try and survive on.  I enjoy it here.  It's a beautiful place.
JOHN BUSH:  If you'll take us through your birdies, starting with No. 1.
BRANDT JOBE:  No. 1, just missed the green in two and chipped it up about 15 feet, made it.

No. 2, I made it from about 18 feet with just a sand wedge.  I drive to drive it on the green.

No. 3, hit a 9 iron about 15 feet, made that.

No. 7, I hit a 9 iron to about 15 feet.

9, I hit an L wedge in there and spun it back and made about a 35 footer.  There's some putts here (laughing).

14, I hit driver, 2 iron to about ten feet for eagle and then two putted.

15, I made about a 60 footer.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BRANDT JOBE:  Front left, here through the windmill, and boom.

I couldn't hit a fairway.  I didn't drive the ball well.  I hit my irons great, but I'd say I missed every fairway by a yard or two.  Like I said, I made some good putts.  When I did hit the fairway, I hit the green on 18 in two and three putted.  Who knows?
Q.  What's the secret?
BRANDT JOBE:  Who knows.  They rolled real well for about the first 12 or 13 holes, rolled pretty good.  Our last five holes I didn't even want a two footer, it was frightening, kind of how they get soft and spongy at Pebble Beach, and we were one of the last groups.  It seemed to be starting to get wet and bumpy around the hole.  They were great early and then the last few holes it was tough.  I didn't want to have a putt.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BRANDT JOBE:  Make it and then just walk to the next hole (laughing).
Q.  (Inaudible).
BRANDT JOBE:  I missed a couple of my short putts today.  I had a four footer on the last hole and hit a pretty good putt, but it just bounced dead left.  You expect to make that, and it didn't even hit the hole.
Q.  It bounced?
BRANDT JOBE:  It bounced, yeah.  It kind of gets going and gets in one of those things and just doesn't roll what you see.

For the long ones, yeah, I guess there's no expectation.  I think Quigley made four putts outside of 15 feet and Dean Wilson made at least two 40 footers.  We were all laughing out there.  It was fun.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BRANDT JOBE:  I didn't roll it real good inside ten feet.  I think that's the part about poa greens is late in the day that's when they're the most difficult.  They roll good early and tough late.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BRANDT JOBE:  Probably a bad score on the North, I hate to say it, but I want to shoot under par on the North Course.  I would say par or better, you want to do that, because you've got three rounds on a course that not a lot    you're not going to expect to shoot 10 under the next three rounds.  You kind of get a little cushion and go out there, and if you have a good solid round on the South Course, sometimes it's par, sometimes it's 2 over.  Sometimes you get it going and it's 3  or 4 under.  You don't see a lot of good scores out there.  It's too long of a course, I think.
Q.  What is your frame of mind compared to a year ago?
BRANDT JOBE:  I've had two opposite years because last year I was gung ho, couldn't wait to start, right out of the box.  I was so excited it was unbelievable, and I had some things I had to take care of so I could stay out here.

This year I was just really tired at the end of the year because I played a lot of tournaments to try and keyhole my position and I took a lot of time off and just got started.  It's kind of been two different mindsets, but I'm trying to take the good things that happened last year and keep going, keep doing the same things that I was doing well last year.  We kind of took a look at a few things that weren't as good as we'd like them and tried to improve.  At the end of the day the ultimate goal is to try and win golf tournaments.  That's my next thing.  I need to get myself in that position and try and win.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BRANDT JOBE:  (Laughing) I don't know about that, but it's a good putting day.  My bunker game wasn't very good last year, so I've kind of worked on that, and it's already gotten a little better.  I'm working on some different drivers, some things.  Last year I had a little trouble with not getting quite enough loft, and so like today was a completely new driver, just put it in today and had a lot more loft than what I've done.

You obviously try to hit a few more fairways, keep the distance up, keep the putting going in the right direction and improve a couple things that I didn't maybe put as much time into.
Q.  What's the driver?
BRANDT JOBE:  It's the Callaway Fusion FT 3.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, the driver I played last year is great when it's real warm, but when it gets a little cold, heavy, damp, I don't get quite enough spin on it.  So I've been working with the R & D guys at Callaway and trying to get a ball that has just a little bit more spin but still get the same look that I like.  It's kind of been an ongoing effort.

This one we had today was getting better.  We're pretty close.  Just to allow me to be able to swing and hit it a little bit easier.  The other one I had to work a little bit.
Q.  (Inaudible).
BRANDT JOBE:  I don't think it really matters right now, to be honest with you.  Walking in, I saw the first eight or ten scores were from the North Course, which is what you expect.  So today I don't really think has a bearing on anything.

We get any change in conditions tomorrow, and those guys that shot even par on the South Course today are going to be the ones that are in the best shape.  I think you just look at it as, hey, it was nice to play a solid round.  After tomorrow you kind of gauge where you're at and then get going.
Q.  What's a better round, you at 7 or Jesper at 5?
BRANDT JOBE:  Is he on the South?  Him at 5.  You give me 5 under tomorrow on the South and then we'll talk, how about that?
JOHN BUSH:  Thanks, Brandt.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT