BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 8, 2005
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Brandt, for joining us for a few minutes in the media center at the Bell Canadian Open.  You got out there this morning and played a pretty solid round on a tough golf course and you made a great putt there at No. 9 to secure that 3 under.  Why don't you talk about the day, the golf course, and we'll go into questions.
BRANDT JOBE:  You got it.  Golf course is obviously playing very difficult.  This morning we were the first group off; on top of that rough being long it's wet and kind of soft, and you hit it in the rough and basically it's a half shot, shot penalty.  You're chipping it out or trying to get somewhere around the green.

The course is playing tough.  11 they gave us a break and put the tees a little bit up, otherwise I think that's a 480 yard par 4.  We did not have much wind; it was a little cool today, so the ball wasn't going very far.  Really put a premium on hitting good golf shots today.  And with the greens being a little bit firmer than what I played on Tuesday, they got them a little quicker and they are really in good shape to make some putts.  It's just a matter of hitting fairways and hitting greens.
Q.  Is 3 under indicative of the way you played or could it have been a little better?
BRANDT JOBE:  I played a solid round of golf.  I certainly made my mistakes and missed a few fairways, wasn't able to get it to the green and 3 putted from about eight feet on about my third hole.  I left a couple out there, but I was pretty happy with how I hit the ball and how I putted.
Q.  How long were you on the Canadian Tour for and what are your recollections of it?
BRANDT JOBE:  The Canadian Tour?  I was driving around this country.  My first year was in 1990.  I played 90,  '92 and I think '93, maybe a little bit in  '94, something like that.  No, I enjoy playing in Canada.  I think in '90 I won the Order of Merit up here. '92, led in scoring average or something like that.  I've enjoyed playing in Canada, especially in British Columbia.  Those are the two places I won up here so it's been nice.  I've enjoyed it, enjoy coming back.
Q.  Does it feel like a long time ago?
BRANDT JOBE:  It does.  It was, a little more than ten years.  I've been all over the world since then, Asia, Japan and finally back here again so I've done my share of traveling.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Let's go through your birdies and bogeys, you started on 10, made a birdie right there.
BRANDT JOBE:  10, I hit driver, 9 iron to about ten feet.

12, I hit it about ten feet and 3 putted.

13, drove it in the rough and chipped out and didn't get it up and down.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  14, birdie.
BRANDT JOBE:  I hit 4 iron, sand wedge about eight feet.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  16, birdie.
BRANDT JOBE:  2 iron, sand wedge about 12 feet.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Bogey on 17.
BRANDT JOBE:  17, I hit 9 iron, hit it on the green and rolled that right at the end of the rough, didn't get it up and down.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  On the front nine, No. 4.
BRANDT JOBE:  No. 4, I hit 3 iron, 8 iron about 25 feet.

6, driver, wedge about 15 feet.

7, I hit driver, 2 iron just off the green and got it up and down and made about a 5 footer.
Q.  What's your year been like in general?  I know it's early but what would it mean to you to be able to get one here.
BRANDT JOBE:  I want any one.  It's early, right now I'm kind of looking, I played a nice solid round of golf, hit the ball well, putted well.  There's so much golf to be played here, I don't even think you can worry about that.

I think tomorrow you try and put yourself in position and then play hard on the weekend.  Right now I'm just happy with how I played today and we'll see what happens.  We'll see how the scoring is.  I'm not even sure how the scoring is going to be.  I don't think anyone is.  Right now I'm just happy with my round, shooting 3 under.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  You have had a great year.  You played great at The INTERNATIONAL and Atlanta.
BRANDT JOBE:  I've had some close calls this year to win some tournaments.  Yeah, I'm just kind of trying to put myself in that position and maybe I'll stumble in and get there.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  You were the playoff, the five man playoff at BellSouth.
BRANDT JOBE:  Right.
JOAN vT ALEXANDER:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT