THE INTERNATIONAL
August 7, 2005
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Well, Brandt, congratulations.  I'm sure you made the city of Denver proud.  You had a lot of friends out there that were proud of you, and you ought to be proud of yourself for the way you performed this week.  Obviously the day was a tough day with the 36 holes.  Why don't you just share the emotions with us now and then we'll go into questions.
BRANDT JOBE:  Well, it's a kind of twofold thing.  It's a great week.  I did play some good golf.  Unfortunately I played nine terrible holes this afternoon in the afternoon round, but the other side of the coin like I've told a lot of people is that this time last year I was sitting at home in a cast having had my second surgery and couldn't feel my left hand.

This whole year, to be sitting here doing this and doing the things I'm doing this year, it's been a great year.  I figure you've just got to keep plugging away and one of these times something good is going to happen.
Q.  Was the key to factor in that second 18 and did you approach it any differently than you would a normal round with the scoring system because you had played 18 already?
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, obviously you try not to.  I didn't even have time to eat a full sandwich.  We literally got done, I ran in, changed shirts, got balls, drank a Gatorade, and I had someone bring me a sandwich, ate half a sandwich, and I was on the tee.

You know, it's like I got out there on the front nine and it kind of caught up with me.  It was a marathon a little bit.  There wasn't a lot of feel to it.  I kind of do a lot of feel, and I kind of lost a lot of feel and my touch of what I was trying to do.  I hit some bad shots and got some bad results and hit a couple shots that    I mean, on 8 I hit the tree and it comes down and now I've got a shot left handed.  It doesn't hit the tree, it's on the green, I've got a shot at birdie.  That was kind of how my day went in this last round.  The first round I played very good golf.  I was solid.  Didn't make many putts, either.

That's the one thing this week I guess that I'm going to take away from this is I didn't putt very well this week, and I still had a chance to win.  So that's a good thing.  I'm looking at that as everything is getting better and I'm going the right direction.
Q.  Were you aware how big your lead was when you completed 18 holes?
BRANDT JOBE:  I didn't know what    I think I had seen 28 or something like that.  I really to be honest with you didn't pay much attention.  As soon as we were finished we jumped in the locker room and then, boom, back up on the tee.  I didn't know what was going on until we kind of got to our first leaderboard, and then I saw someone who was at 29, I think I was at 35.  So that's kind of what I knew.
Q.  Could you talk about the 14th hole, your second shot, and kind of what was going through your mind approaching that third shot?
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, on 14 I had, sea level yardage, about 215 to carry the water, which for me is a perfect 4 iron.  I've got to kill it.  So I think it was 240 here, something like that.  That sounds about right.

I wasn't trying to go over the water.  I was trying to get it just right but I didn't want to get it back in that bunker, either, so I was going for a fine line but trying obviously to miss it right.  I'll tell you what, I hit it right on the screws, right where I was aiming it, and the wind kind of pushed it about two feet further left than it needed to be and it would have came out perfect.  I did everything I was trying to do and made a good swing and hit a good shot.  The result just didn't end up what I wanted.

There was nowhere to chip it there    I mean, to drop it.  If I dropped it back on line, I didn't have a lie where I could get the ball and spin it, so I kind of tried to drop where I got something fluffy and I could pop it in the air.  It was a bad place to be in the water there.
Q.  I was just wondering, the fourth round, was it more of a battle for you mentally or physically would you say?
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, normally I would say we never have a physical battle out here.  I mean, it's very rare.  Today was definitely    I mean, look at the guys in my group.  I was trying to get a sense of what was going on out there, and really nobody played well    I guess Retief    I don't know how many points he had this afternoon, Jeff Brehaut looked leak he played pretty well, but no one did much this afternoon.  Did fatigue play a factor?  Absolutely.  It did on me.  I'll be the first one to tell you I'm tired.  But it was the same for everybody, so there's no excuses.
Q.  You said you didn't putt well, but there were some putts on the back nine that just    that you had for birdie chances that could have
BRANDT JOBE:  I mean, I hit the hole on 11 from six feet.

12, I had a 20 footer that went right around the edge and stopped right behind the hole.

14, I ran the par putt right over the edge.

15, I was in another divot.

16, I hit it ten feet, which I don't know how I got it there, and hit a great putt, looked like it was going in the center of the hole, bounced up in the air dead right of the hole.

The greens have had so much traffic, and all the weather that we've had, it was just tough to hit a ball and keep it on line, especially in the last nine    I'd say the second 18 was a lot rougher.
Q.  Two of your putts hit spike marks do you think?
BRANDT JOBE:  16, I thought I made it.  I looked up and everything looked perfect, and my caddie said, "What happened there?  It kind of bounced up and went right."  I was like, "Man, I thought I made it."  That's golf, you know.  It's the elements.  It is what it is.
Q.  You talked about fatigue playing a factor.  I can see fatigue when I'm watching football, I can see it when I'm watching basketball.  Can you describe specifically how fatigue affects you out there?
BRANDT JOBE:  Well, everything we do is timing, right.  Your golf swing is swing, your putting, your short game, it's all timing.  When guys get in a zone or a mode or whatever, their timing, they've got it down.  Well, when you're going out there and playing 36 holes and walking up and down and sloppy and crazy and it's 90 some odd degrees, yeah, it's tough to walk just 18 holes.

Your timing gets thrown off, your body doesn't work the way you want it to work, your legs get worn out.  Stand outside for ten straight hours in 95 degrees and stare at green grass and see how your mind works.  It doesn't work so well.  It's just part of it.

But like I said, we've all got to do it.  I don't think anybody here is going to say they're not tired.
Q.  Your bunker play has not been particularly sharp this year.
BRANDT JOBE:  It's been horrible.
Q.  What happened on No. 4?
BRANDT JOBE:  Well, I'll address why my bunker play has been so bad.  The wedge that I have been using this year that I had been working so hard at the beginning of the year, it was a Cleveland wedge, and I brought it to him and said, "My bunker play is terrible.  I'm never this bad.  I've been practicing, doing everything."  He took my wedge and threw it in the trash can.  He said, "The wedge is terrible.  For the way you ground it, you've got to ground for bunkers."  So just two weeks ago, it's a brand new wedge and everything about it is totally different.  I've been getting better with it, but I don't know.

That shot specifically, obviously my confidence isn't real hot being in there because I haven't had a lot of success lately.

No. 2, I don't know if it bounced off the ground or I have no idea what happened.  All of a sudden I looked up and the thing is sailing over the green.  There's a lot of rocks in there, a lot of pebbles.  I had a couple holes later I hit my shot in a bunker and hit my second shot and a divot fixer goes flying out sideways.  I had one of those weird days today.  I had it all.  I obviously hit a bad shot there.  Somebody's metal divot tool was underneath my ball.

That's how my back nine was going after a bad front nine.  It was underneath the sand.  A metal thing goes flying at David Toms, my ball goes out the other direction.
Q.  Can you talk a little bit about    you mentioned the injury, being in a cast last year, just if you could just touch on that and coming back from that.
BRANDT JOBE:  In 2003 I shattered    it's called a hook of the hamate.  I had surgery in 2003 and was out most of the year.  Started in 2004, playing my fourth tournament, shattered it again, went back to the same doctor.  It's never happened.  He has done the most repairs of the hook of the hamate there is.  Dr. Arthur Reddig.  He has done the most.  He's never seen his work before because he's never seen an MRI of what he's done previously.  I was like some freak of nature because it's supposed to take away the bone; there's not supposed to be anything there.  The second one was worse because when he went in there I guess it had some artery problems and a bunch of things, and I lost the feeling in my hand.  So it took a good    I don't even feel my pinky still a little bit.  He said that could take three years.

But it took a good seven or eight months until I was feeling pretty healthy, and that's kind of when I started up this year and I started on the medical    the major medical category.
Q.  20 events for
BRANDT JOBE:  20 events, I think I had to make 370 something.
Q.  How did you shatter it?
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, the truth is it's probably a lot of wear and tear, but it happened at like the Kemper Open.  I was about two inches into the rough and I took a swing and the ball went nowhere and I broke my hand.  I'm sure it had to do a lot more with wear and tear.
Q.  What do you take from this week?  Obviously a win    would a win have gotten you into the PGA?
BRANDT JOBE:  Yes.
Q.  So you'll be watching it on TV now.
BRANDT JOBE:  Do you think I'm going to watch it?
Q.  What do you take from this week?
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, I think, like I said earlier, you don't know what's going to happen today.  36 holes, I mean, heck, there were so many guys that had a chance to win the tournament.  At the end of the day I take away I played a great morning round and put myself into position and just didn't get it done.  You've got to keep doing it.  One of these times, hopefully sometime the rest of this year or next year or whatever it is, I'm going to get it done, and hopefully I'll get it done more than once.
Q.  On 18, the putt you had for birdie, did the shadows affect your read or anything?
BRANDT JOBE:  No, it was so slow, it got bouncing a little bit up the hill.  I hit it hard, too.  Like I said, it was just    you know, the greens were a little rough and it was a pretty uphill putt, and it kind of got in the air and bounced off.
Q.  Could you just refresh our memory on how long you lived in Colorado?
BRANDT JOBE:  We came here in 1970, and I lived here from 1970 to 1999, 29 years.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you for joining us.  Congratulations.
BRANDT JOBE:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT