THE INTERNATIONAL
August 6, 2005
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Brandt, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center.  Another solid round, and looks like you'll probably be in pretty good position going into that 36 holes tomorrow.  It's interesting, I just had Cameron in here, and he had 23 points, and 20 of his 23 came on the front nine, and for you, you had 16 of your 22 on the front nine.  I mean, he said there was no reason for it.  Do you have a reason for it?
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, no (laughing).  This morning I think starting out I was kind of going through that 10 percent deal.  I'll tell you what, the ball was going absolutely nowhere.  If you hit it in the rough, you couldn't move it out.  The ball was just like everything was dead for a little bit.  I misclubbed every single hole for the first four or five holes, and then I was like, all right, let's figure this out here.

You know, that's kind of what I did, and I was giving up too much yardage wise, just a bad start.  I did the same thing yesterday.  I think they have bigger elevation changes on that back side.  I'm going to go with that.
Q.  Are you thinking about 36 tomorrow?  I know you're not a 20 year old anymore, but
BRANDT JOBE:  I'm going to the range right now so I don't have to go 36 tomorrow.  I don't know, that's going to be a good one.  I'll tell you, I was trying to think, the only one that's comparable is maybe when we played Atlanta back when Mickelson won in '03 or '02.  I played 36 holes and the weather was horrible, which made it sloppy.

I mean, this is a tough walk when it's firm and perfect on a perfect day.  Right now it's still a little soft.  There's no mud.  We kind of battled the mud on the first nine holes.  That will be a challenge in itself, to walk 36.
Q.  How many of your friends are going to go 36 with you tomorrow?
BRANDT JOBE:  I just don't see it.  I don't see the love (laughter).

No, it'll be interesting.  It'll be a long day.  I think you've got to be real patient, and I think it might affect the scoring a little bit because we might not kind of keep on the same pace as what it's been going.  I don't care who you are, you're going to get worn out.
Q.  You said that you have to pace yourself.  Do you have a different strategy with 36?
BRANDT JOBE:  Well, I think you just go out there, and there's a lot of golf to be played, especially with this system.  Nine holes, you can throw in 12, 14 points if you get a couple things going or make a couple eagles.  You've just got to sit back and let it happen.  Take each hole as it goes and knock them down and get going, and hopefully you do well for the last four or five holes and add some excitement.
Q.  Do you feel like you have a home course advantage anymore?  You've been away for, what, five years?
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, it's funny, it's just starting to click a little bit back to where I'm getting familiar with yardages, what I hit here and not having to convert so much and figure out where I am in my head a little bit.  You know, the guys have played here so much.  You think about all the guys on the leaderboard here, just about everyone has played here four, five, six times and they've logged their 30 or 40 rounds out here.

You know, I don't think that there's really that much of an advantage.  It used to be with the altitude, but I gave that up, didn't I.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can we go through the card starting on 10?  Just give of give us an idea where you misclubbed.
BRANDT JOBE:  10, I hit it about a foot into the rough and I had to calculate it at sea level; I had about 140 yards, which is normally just a normal 9 iron, but I wanted to make sure I carried the water so I hit 8 and barely carried the water and made bogey there.  I kind of misjudged the yardage there.

11, I three putted, hit it 20 feet and three putted.

13, I drove it in a divot and hit it fat, short of the green and didn't get it up and down.

Birdie on 14, I hit driver, 3 wood just right of the green and made about a 12 foot putt.

Birdie on 17, I hit 3 wood in the left rough and a 4 iron on the back of the green probably 50 feet, 60 feet, two putt.

Front side, birdie on the par 4, No. 3, driver, sand wedge to about ten feet.

5, driver, 9 iron about ten feet.

6, 3 wood, wedge about three feet.

9, 3 wood, 6 iron about 15 feet.
Q.  How much pressure do you put on yourself given you're looking for that first win?  You came very close earlier this year.  Is it any more pressure than a usual week?
BRANDT JOBE:  Well, I mean, I'm going to be trying hard, I'll promise you that.  You know, I think with it being 36 holes and the way it is, it's going to be one of those things that happens    I think the guy that's going to win is going to get out there    depending on what happens this afternoon, if any of those guys go real low, but if you're 25, 26 points is leading, it's probably going to be a couple guys that get going pretty good and maybe even distance themselves.  Because it's going to be such a long, tough day, it's going to be hard to maintain a lot of consistency.  I think you're going to see a lot of ups and downs tomorrow.
Q.  I walked all 18 holes with you today with Mike.  From tee to green we thought that you really hit the ball great.
BRANDT JOBE:  He'd better fix me this afternoon.
Q.  You left a few out there.
BRANDT JOBE:  I did.
Q.  What are you thinking?
BRANDT JOBE:  Well, I'm very happy with how I'm hitting the ball.  I hit a lot of good golf shots.  Putting has been good at times and terrible at times.  I mean, today I missed my share inside of ten feet for birdie, probably five or six, a few four footers.  I've just got to go out this afternoon, I'll get together with Mike and we'll try to get a little more work and get some feel.  I didn't have much feel today, and I'll try to key in on something and hopefully that will work and get me going.
Q.  Have there been some squirrelly pin placements?  Yesterday I've never seen so many guys go out to the practice putting green after the round and work on putting.
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, it's kind of funny, they've used kind of the normal Sunday pins that you think of.  They've used a lot of those pins already, especially the short ones that they tuck them back in the corners.  16, golly, that's as tough as it gets yesterday.  Today we're playing it all the way back and they've got it shoved right in the front of the green.  Is that 20 feet wide from 210 yards?  We're not that good.  Yeah, it's played    the pin placements and the conditions, I think the course has played difficult.  I mean, having lift, clean and place yesterday helped a lot.  I wouldn't have minded it this morning a little bit, but hey, it was all right.  It was a little muddy this morning.
Q.  On the 36 hole deal tomorrow, third round is traditionally the moving day round.  Everybody says we're just going to let it go and slide through and see what happens, but isn't tomorrow's morning round the one where somebody really needs to take off and go somewhere while you're still fresh before you get tired?
BRANDT JOBE:  Yeah, I think you might see that.  Definitely the morning round is going to be the fresh round.  You know, weather looks like it's going to be great so it's only going to be drying out.  The course might actually get a little roll out there.  It's going to be there in the morning conditions    this morning was pretty perfect.  The wind just picked up here in the last five or six holes, but I think you're right, you're going to have to get out there and play a pretty good morning round.

I think the key thing, at least the way I look at it, keep yourself in position or put yourself in position, depending upon how everybody is going.  I mean, if you're the guy that goes out there and gets going, then go.  If somebody is going crazy and making eagles and birdies and all this, just try and stay up.

I mean, that's kind of    it's going to be    with this system the way we have it going, it's not like a stroke play event where a guy can make a triple and a guy makes a birdie and he loses three.  Stroke play you can lose a lot more.  Here you're not losing as much.  I guess it's easier to make up from a triple bogey because you make triple, you get minus 3, you make two birdies, you're back ahead, versus in stroke play you're still behind.  So that's kind of the    it'll be an interesting morning, you're right.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT