THE INTERNATIONAL
August 5, 2005
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Brandt, for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center.  How quickly things change with the eagle on 17.  We had Charlie and Billy.  They both had an eagle and birdie at the end of the day.  Makes it kind of fun.
BRANDT JOBE:  Yeah, that's what's so fun about playing here is coming to that last 17, 18.  17, being able to have a good shot at making an eagle.  Of course, when you do, it's a nice way to end the day.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  Brandt, I think you had six birdies.  Must have been hitting the ball pretty well.
BRANDT JOBE:  I played pretty well.  I played real well on the Front 9.  The birdies I made weren't long putts or anything like that, so that was kind of nice.  Real solid.  Lot of fairways.

The Back 9 was a little more of an adventure.  I miss clubbed on No. 11 and flew it over everything into a bush.  That's how I made double.  Nice that I came back with a birdie on the next hole.  Missed a short putt for par on the next one.  Kind of got squirrelly there.  Then, of course, I birdied the next one, so the excitement continued.

Made a good par on 16.  That was one of the toughest pin placements they have.  17, you know, hit a 3 wood and a 6 iron.  Said it hit the pin and almost went in.  It was about a foot and a half.  They were going crazy up there.  I knew something happened.  I didn't know what it was.  That was kind of a nice way to end the day, two good shots, then kind of a routine par on 18.

In the end, got a little loose on the Back 9, but that eagle kind of made up for it.
Q.  Some of the other players were saying some of the other par 5s have been lengthened, with the rain maybe they aren't as reachable.  Does that make 17 that much more important to take advantage of this week?
BRANDT JOBE:  Well, I think any time    the par 5s, with the new length of things, they're not gimme.  Used to be if you hit a good drive, got on the fairway, you were hitting an iron into it.  Today I hit 3 wood into 14, 2 iron into 8.  17 is really your good chance to pick up a birdie.  1, I hit 3 wood into.  I had two woods and a 2 iron.

17, definitely you're thinking "Get it in the fairway" because if you don't get it in the fairway, you're not going to be able to get it up the hill.  It's a hole where it puts the premium on the tee shot to give yourself the opportunity to make I guess an easier four than what's out there.

Today the course played as long as it can play.  Balls were plugging.  I'm kind of hoping they still (inaudible) tomorrow morning.  The last few holes, we had balls that were plugging straight into the mud.  Played long and wet and a little sloppy.
Q.  How many friends and family were following your group?  Did you hear fans recognize you and remember you?
BRANDT JOBE:  Yeah, it was fun to get on the first tee, have everybody yell, scream and holler.  That was nice.  There was a lot of people.  A next door neighbor was out there from seven years ago.  Of course, Mike McGetrick was out there for every step.  My parents were out there.  My wife and friends.  Then my little kids came out for the last couple holes.  It was everyone, which is nice.  It's fun.  Kind of a bonus to play well in front of them.
Q.  Do you think in the past you might have put too much pressure on yourself?
BRANDT JOBE:  Yeah, it's probably easier now.  There's no doubt about it.  You know, when you live here, this is kind of your big event...  For a lot of years, I was playing in Japan.  This was one of the few TOUR events I got in.  Mr. Vickers was nice enough to give me an invitation.  It was everything to me.  Everyone comes to watch.  "If you're playing so well in Japan, how come you're not playing well here?"

It was like you tried so hard.  I had one year where I think I finished sixth and played pretty well.  Other than that, I didn't play well.

I think now coming here this year, this year has gone solid off the medical that I've been on, the medical injury.  So coming here is kind of more relaxing.  It's not like, "Gosh, I've got to play well this week, this is my one chance."  This is like, "Gosh, I'm home.  I get to enjoy it.  Family, friends."

It's been a nice kind of comfortable week.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Can we go through your birdies, eagles, bogeys.
BRANDT JOBE:  All the stuff.

1, I hit driver, 3 wood just off the green, chipped up to about foot and a half.

3, I hit driver, sand wedge, about 12 feet.

8, I hit driver, 2 iron just off the side of the green, chipped up to about five feet.

9, I hit 3 wood, 9 iron, about three feet.

11, I airmailed the green into the back bushes, had to take an unplayable, ended up with a double.

12, I hit 3 wood, wedge, about 12 feet.

13, I hit 3 wood, 9 iron, just right of the green.  Chipped it up about four or five feet and missed it.

14, I hit driver, 3 wood, just right of the green.  Chipped it up about five feet, made birdie.

17, was 3 wood, 6 iron to about a foot and a half.
Q.  What did you hit into 10?
BRANDT JOBE:  10, I hit 8 iron.  Driver, 8 iron.
Q.  Did you hear some guys were hitting 5 woods in there this morning?
BRANDT JOBE:  It was into the wind.  I kind of hit it down the right.  It took a nice bounce.  I was in the rough.  Probably should have hit 7 iron.

John Cook hit 5 wood in.  Said, "You got to be kidding me.  What's going on here?"  The wind was just starting to kind of pick up.  Luckily I kind of hammered one just down the right hand side.  Hit it pretty good.

But, yeah, the course    10, into the wind, I can remember the days of hitting 3 wood into that thing when the tournament was early   early years, I should say.
Q.  I think the low score in the morning group was plus 11.  Is it surprising at all that the top three scores are all from the afternoon groups?
BRANDT JOBE:  Yeah, you know, probably, because the course was perfect on the Front 9 for us.  The greens, everything was great.  Seemed like when we got to the Back 9, balls were plugging.  You weren't even getting a bounce out of the ground.  The greens were real damp and kind of    you get a lot of traffic.  They were still in good shape, but there was so much traffic from them being so soft.

Surprisingly, the scores were as good as they were in the afternoon.  Usually you can see, because the course firms up, gets going, especially after as much rain as we had.  But it really hasn't firmed up all that much.  I guess it is surprising to me.  Some of the players, someone told me it was kind of windy this morning.  I didn't know that.  A little cooler, windier, that obviously makes it more difficult.  Even wetter for them than what it was for us.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you very much.
BRANDT JOBE:  All right.  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT