JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 8, 2005
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
Did the patience of Jobe pay off?
BRANDT JOBE:  I don't know that I was all that patient, but I got it around pretty good for a couple days.
Q.  What was the key today?
BRANDT JOBE:  Well, actually just kind of hanging in there.  I kind of had a rough start and got a few kind of up and downs and kept the round going, and then things kind of clicked and played a pretty solid back nine, made a few putts, and that kind of gets some momentum going out here and you can shoot a good score.
Q.  Playing through that group going to help you?
BRANDT JOBE:  It's strange because we were a two some, and we could have done anything back there.  It was pretty slow.  It probably helped because we had about four or five holes where we got to get going because of kind of the mess up there with the ruling and everything, and Omar, I think he birdied four of five and I birdied three of five, so it was a nice little stretch for us.
Q.  With the way the course is playing, do you expect the scores to just keep going a little lower?
BRANDT JOBE:  Yeah, I mean, I would imagine.  The course is    the whole thing I think is it's just soft.  You know, the fairways are in good shape and the greens are fairly soft, so you're giving guys a chance to go at these pins.  It doesn't ever seem like on the weekends you have to go quite as low, but I imagine there will be some good scores.
Q.  Just the one bogey for the first two days.
BRANDT JOBE:  One bogey, yeah.
Q.  Just a matter of ball striking right now?
BRANDT JOBE:  Yeah, hitting it pretty good and making a few of the key putts, you know, a few ten footers, getting it up and down when you go for a par 5, things like that.  There hasn't been anything special about what I've done except I've driven it pretty well, which I think is the key out here.  You put yourself in the fairways out here and you get some mid to short irons and you can score if you get it in the fairways.
Q.  Getting to play through like that, that's not something you see very much.
BRANDT JOBE:  No, that's pretty cool, isn't it?
Q.  Have you ever done that before?
BRANDT JOBE:  I think about one time in the last ten years.  It doesn't happen very often.  We didn't know they were having a ruling.  They were either in the trees or off, and we got it down the middle, and by the time we got halfway up the fairway, we realized, oh, my gosh, these guys came out of the trees.  Well, the official was starting to take him back, and the official says, "Go through them."  It helped us being two, because with all the problems it didn't hold up the pace of play that much, so it helped for the officials.
Q.  What hole was that on?
BRANDT JOBE:  8.
Q.  With the major medical, I mean, are you looking at having to have a big finish here?  Has that been the back
BRANDT JOBE:  No, my medical was finished my fifth tournament of the year this year.  Basically even though I have full status and everything, you don't leave that category, so I stay in that category for the entire year, then next year I'm responsible for making my money for 2006, so I've pretty much done that, too.  I'm kind of in smooth sailing territory.  It was stressful at the beginning of the year, but now it's kind of nice to get to enjoy it a little bit.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT