MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 6, 2002
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  We have Brandt Jobe, runner up, T2, best career finish, Brandt.  Let's talk a little bit about today.
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, kind of an up-and-down day, hit some real good shots early on and hit some really nice putts, and I couldn't get anything going early.  You know, I made some great saves, 10, 11, 12, and then bogied 13 and hit a good putt.  I mean, it kind of bounced and came out of the hole.  It was just a frustrating day because it was so close to being good and so close to being bad.  It was one of those days.  It was tough.

Q.  A year ago at this time Charles Howell was in here and he was much in your position.  I don't remember where he finished, but he comes back and he wins.  What does it take to get to first here?
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, now I think at least I have an idea.  You've definitely got to play some really good golf.  You know, you've got to be putting well, hitting the ball well.  This week it was extremely important to hit the fairways.  I think it takes good ball striking, good putting and somebody that can really be patient and let things happen the  way they happen, and, you know, today -- I look at my last -- I'm at 14 under staying in the middle of the fairway on 16 and going at the hole perfect.  It flies two more yards I'm probably 15 under leading the golf tournament.  I misjudged the yardage because I hit it as good as I can hit it.  For me that was the difference today, right there.  You know, you've also got a drawback on the week, for me in this position, that you know what, eliminate a couple mistakes and I'm going to be the one winning.  So it was a positive week.

Q.  You've won nine times overseas and you say now you understand what it takes.  Is it different to win here than it is there?
BRANDT JOBE:  No.  You always need to do something different.  If I'd have been in the same position and done what I did today I wouldn't have won there, either.  All I've got to do is go out there and shoot two under par.  It was to do it and I just didn't do it.

Q.  How long did it take you to win in Asia?
BRANDT JOBE:  In Japan?  My third week.

Q.  So you avoided all the things --
BRANDT JOBE:  I did, but I had a dry spell. I won about a year and a half after that and didn't  win, it was getting frustrating, and then I won back-to-back and the next year I won three.
I think for me I'm doing the right things, seeing improvement.  Things are getting better.  I had a chance today, and that's better than what it's been, so I've got to take some positives from it.

Q.  Does coming up short, is it more frustration or gratification that you were there and it was there for the taking if you had done a few things different?
BRANDT JOBE:  Today is kind of hard because, you know, I was right there and I hit a good golf shot and I made bogey, and that made me do what I had to do on 18.  I mean, 18 I had to make birdie, I hit driver. I hadn't hit driver all week.  I hit a good drive.  I made bogey there.  I kind of look at the bogey I made on 16 as kind of costing me the golf tournament, and it was on two really good golf shots.  Sometimes maybe it's just not meant to be.

Q.  The third shot, was it a 3-wood?
BRANDT JOBE:  I did because the ball was sitting -- there was like a little plug or something where somebody else's ball, and it was kind of a dead muddy area, so right behind it trying to hit something in the air, I'm looking at chunking it because the grain was also into me.  Looking back I don't think  that was the wrong shot, I just needed to hit it just a fraction harder and it would have been real nice, just unlucky.

Q.  Both shots, second shot and third shot needed to be hit a spot harder?
BRANDT JOBE:  Yeah, to be in good shape.
TODD BUDNICK:  Everybody good?  Thanks, Brandt.
Q.  Are we going to go over the round?
BRANDT JOBE:  7 I hit 3-wood 7-iron right in front of the green, chipped it up about four feet.
13 I made bogey.  I hit a 7-iron just left to the green and chipped up about six feet, missed that.
15 I hit driver, sand wedge, sand wedge to about three feet.
16 I hit a 9-iron short, and then 18 I hit it about two inches in the left rough and couldn't get it to the green, didn't get it up and down.

Q.  The second shot in the left rough?
BRANDT JOBE:  My drive was in the left rough.

Q.  Can I ask one thing before you go?  With Charles playing in front of you, did you watch the board and kind of judge how you were playing as Charles was playing?  You had Billy right there and Charles was a couple groups ahead.  Were you paying attention to  know what you had to do?
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, I didn't really pay much attention until maybe the last six holes because it really didn't matter until then.  I knew what Billy was doing obviously because he was right with me and we were both at 14 under there, and I didn't really know what Charles was doing until I think I saw it on 15 that he got to 14 under there, and then obviously I found out what he did on 18, which dictated what I did.
TODD BUDNICK:  Thank you, Brandt.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT