MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 5, 2002
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  We'll get started. Brandt, thank you for spending some time with us. Great round today and an excellent finish, five birdies back there on the backside, four in a row.  Why don't you just make a couple comments about your round and then we'll go to questions.
BRANDT JOBE:  It was kind of up and down, started off really well, hitting some good shots, and right in the middle of the round I hit a few loose shots, really didn't roll any good putts, and I was like -- after I bogeyed 12 that was kind of a good wake-up call that I needed to get focused.  I was so hot out there, I don't know what it was today.  I was just dying for a little bit there because the wind wasn't hardly blowing, the sun was just -- look at me, I'm drenched.  After I made the bogey, it was kind of a wake-up call.  I didn't expect to finish like that, but I'll take it.

Q.  You were making a lot of par saves on the front side.
BRANDT JOBE:  I made a good one on 8.  I hit it left on 8 and chipped it down in front of the green  about eight feet and made that for par.  I got up and down on 10 and 11, a three-footer and -- I was missing greens and hitting chips, and then 12 I made bogey. That was it.  I mean, I was kind of getting sloppy.

Q.  Can we go through your card?
BRANDT JOBE:  Sure.  2 I hit a 5-iron about 12 feet.
3 I hit 3-wood, 6-iron just off the green, chipped it up about a foot.

Q.  12?
BRANDT JOBE:  12 I hit a 6-iron about six feet -- no, I made a bogey on 12.  I'm losing my holes.  I hit a 2-iron off the tee in the rough and an 8-iron in the bunker and I hit a bad bunker shot.  It rolled down the hill and I had about a 20-footer for par and missed that.
13 I hit a 6-iron about six feet.
15, I actually hit a pretty decent drive on 15.  I missed that fairway by literally a foot and I had to pull out sand wedge and hit it as hard as I could to hit it 100 yards.  That was one of my better shots because Tanaka hit the same thing and he hit his about 60 yards right.

Q.  You drove it left?
BRANDT JOBE:  I drove it right, laid it up  about 90 yards, hit that about 15 feet and made that.

Q.  16?
BRANDT JOBE:  16 I hit 3-wood, 8-iron about 15 feet and made that.
17 I hit 8-iron about 12 feet, made that.
Then the last hole I hit 3-wood, wedge about eight feet, made that.

Q.  So you took, what, 11 putts on the backside?
BRANDT JOBE:  I didn't count.  That sounds about right.

Q.  Were you aware of what was going on in front of you, like the leaderboard at any point?
BRANDT JOBE:  You know, when I really saw it was I think after we played the 11th hole.  I was at 9, Tanaka was at 11.  Actually on 14 -- right in that area, I don't remember when it was, but I thought someone had gotten to 13, and I thought, wow, that was Mayfair, after my 7th or 8th hole when I saw that, I thought, he's going.  Then the next time I looked I saw it back down to 11 and I saw I was at eight or nine and I thought a few birdies would at least give me a chance.  You don't want to get too many back because everyone seems to be shooting under par, so you don't want to have to shoot 62 to have a chance.

Q.  Have you ever finished a round with five  birdies in the last six holes?
BRANDT JOBE:  I'm sure probably somewhere.

Q.  Do you remember the last time?
BRANDT JOBE:  No, I don't.  No, this was nice.  It was a good end to a tough day, so it was very nice.

Q.  So what does having the lead do for you now between now and tomorrow?
BRANDT JOBE:  It puts me one shot ahead, I think.

Q.  Does it affect the way you think, how easy it'll be to sleep, any of that stuff?
BRANDT JOBE:  No, because, I mean, one shot is one swing on the first hole, so it's really not that much.  I think I've kind of got to go out and do the same things I've been doing.  I've actually tried to be pretty patient and just let things happen.  A lot of good things have happened this week.  I've gotten a couple good bounces, made a couple putts, and that's what you've got to do to play well.

Q.  Sounds like your 8-iron and your putter were your best friends today?
BRANDT JOBE:  Yeah, I made some good putts, and definitely today was my best putting round of the week, and the greens were tough.  They were kind of  getting dried out and crusty and kind of bumpy because there's not a lot of grass on them right now, so they're getting tough.  You need to kind of get the ball to stay on-line.

Q.  They'll probably water them overnight.
BRANDT JOBE:  I hope they do, make them nice and soft.

Q.  The fact that you've won so many times on the Japanese Tour, does that help?  I mean, you've won before so it's not like you're just out here somebody new.
BRANDT JOBE:  Definitely it helps.  You know, I want to win out here to prove that the things I did in Japan I guess weren't just -- you know, they were good.  I guess you want to make sure every time you win it kind of adds more to what you've accomplished.  It's definitely very important to win out here.  I think that's why we're all out here.

Q.  When Mayfair got to 13 and you were somewhere near the turn, did you start to think, good golly, he can finish the day 14, 15, 16?
BRANDT JOBE:  Yeah, that's kind of what I thought.  He's going to get to about 15 under.  That's what happens sometimes, one of the guys who are leading goes out and shoots nothing on Saturday, and then it's  just tough.  It kind of wasn't -- when you see it goes from 13 down to 11 and you're only two shots behind, you're back in the ballgame without doing anything, so that was nice.  I think it kind of gives you a little kick to get going.

Q.  When you said 12 was the wake-up call, do you just kind of kick yourself and say, what was I doing there; let's get it going?
BRANDT JOBE:  I air-mailed the green on 10 from the middle of the fairway, right at the pin.  I totally whiffed the wind.  My caddie was saying the right thing and I wasn't believing it.  It was kind of my fault.  11 I hit a bad drive.  I was kind of getting to where there wasn't any rhythm, and 12 I hit it right and it was kind of all over the place.  Yeah, I think after that I was like, well, this is good.  This is a great yardage for me, and I knew if I got it going down that hill everything kind of funnels.  Making birdie there really helped kind of keep me in it.

Q.  15, with what Tanaka did and what you did, is there that little difference between being at the top of the leaderboard and flushing the round right there?
BRANDT JOBE:  I think so.  I mean, he played really well today.  He hits what looked like a great drive and instead of kicking right off the mound there  it kicks dead left off the hill and now he's trying to chip out off a hill and it goes dead sideways and it goes one inch into the rough and he has no chance to hit that 50 yards.  You know, there's always luck in this game.  There's always a good bounce.  That plays a big part in things.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Are you guys all set? Thank you, Brandt.



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT