MICHELOB CHAMPIONSHIP AT KINGSMILL
October 4, 2002
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TODD BUDNICK:  Brandt Jobe, 7-under par for the tournament after rounds of 67, 68; has him heading into the clubhouse as one of the leaders.  One, just one bogey and four birdies today.  You've made the last seven cuts.  You're on a pretty good streak right now.
BRANDT JOBE: Yeah, it's been getting a lot more consistent.  I still had a couple bad Sundays but it was getting more consistent and you've got to keep being there and get it all together.
TODD BUDNICK:  Let's go ahead through your card.
BRANDT JOBE: I started on 1, so first hole I hit a sand wedge about a foot, got it in my range.  I hit a 9-iron about two feet. 
7, I made bogey, I tried to go for it from the fairway with a 2-iron and hit it in the rough, 50 yards to the green, I couldn't hit it 30 yards.  It was unbelievable how deep it was, couldn't get it up and down.
14, I hit a sand wedge in there about 12 feet, and 15 I had a sand wedge in about 15 feet.
TODD BUDNICK: It appears actually that the course may be playing a little tougher today than yesterday?
BRANDT JOBE: You know, it is so wet if you miss a fairway there is no way to get the ball to the green.  At least when it's drier you can get something jumping or have a chance, but this is some of the deepest rough we'd played in that's not a major tournament.  I think that's what you're seeing.  Even some of the first cuts are a little bit longer, and when it gets wet and dewy it gets tougher to control and you're missing the green.  The course is playing pretty difficult.
TODD BUDNICK: We'll go ahead and take some questions. 
Q.  Ever since, I guess, the Western you've been on this run.  What kind of started you?  Was it anything in particular?
BRANDT JOBE: Yeah, I missed the cut at FedEx.  I shot a billion, no exaggeration, and I called my teacher up that night, and I said, listen, I've got to see you.  It's not even worth me playing.  I've got no clue what I'm doing.  I've got them going both ways with power.  It was bad.  I shot like 13 or 15 over.  I mean, it was horrible, and I played well usually there.  We went back, I flew into Denver on Saturday and we spent all afternoon until dark hitting balls and just trying to get an idea  -- I've tried to change things since I came from Japan over here.  I've tried to make some changes in my swing and it's gone bad, and I'm trying to get back to doing what I was doing, but I've already forgotten what I was doing I tried so much.  We sat there and pulled out old tapes and just tried to go back to  -- I'm very into a feel, I have to feel something in my feel, and to try to get a mind set of a feel.  The guy got the club in the right position for me to do what I'm doing.  It was great at the Western because I had no expectations, and Sunday I played so good, I was about as high as I could have shot.  I think I shot like 66.  It was unreal.  It's just kind of carried me through.  Even the tournaments I haven't been playing that well, I'm hitting the shots I want to where the misses have really  -- they're really not off the charts so to speak.  That gives you a little more confidence when you're standing up there with the shots.

Q.  So you went immediately from Memphis to Denver, you didn't take a day off?
BRANDT JOBE: No.  I flew in  -- I left at like 6:00 in the morning Saturday morning.  I finished Friday night and went straight to Denver, rented a car and went straight to the deal.  The only day he had to work with me was Saturday because he had Beth Daniel, Meg Mallon, the Women's Open was next weekend and he was going with them.  I told him I need some time, he'd have to be patient with me.

Q.  Who is this?
BRANDT JOBE: Mike McGetrick.

Q.  Where is he based?
BRANDT JOBE: Meridian Golf Club.  I think he had about five of the gals on the Solheim Cup team.

Q.  Had you planned to play the week after  -- did you have to WD from a tournament?
BRANDT JOBE: No.  Saturday after I worked with him I left that night back to Dallas and then flew up to Chicago.

Q.  So the Western was the very next week?
BRANDT JOBE: Next week, yes.

Q.  How much are you paying that guy?  It's not enough?
BRANDT JOBE: Come on, I'm not playing that good.  (Laughter) I played a little bit better.  No, I've been working with Mike for, geez, I think I started in about '91, my first year out here.  I had some real good stretches where I got things how I wanted to in Japan, and like everyone else you think you've got to do something different to get to another level, and you've got to keep doing what you're doing just a little better and I didn't stick with that philosophy.  I've paid the price.

Q.  You compared video to what you were doing to what you are, but if you looked at that video and now, is it such a minute change that nobody would really see anything different?
BRANDT JOBE: For me it actually wasn't; it was a big change.  What I was trying to do was  -- you look at Tiger and he's got a great swing and every child coming up wants to model their swing after him, gives you power, a huge turn, all the positive things.  I tried to do a couple of those things myself, getting the club in what they call the perfect positions, one, two, three, four.  I couldn't get to position one.  That threw me off.  I can't do it that way.  I have to do it a little bit different way in order to get  -- otherwise I get the club face real shut at the top and I hit it hard left, and I usually play a little bit of a cut to a straight shot.  My whole thing is if I can eliminate left I can play better.

Q.  So it's the first part of the backswing?
BRANDT JOBE: The first part of the backswing is what I work on.  It's been crazy.  That's always kind of been my key.  I think everyone kind of figures out  -- some guys might have to work of transition from the top.  Everybody has a different idea or thought that gets them in the right position, and that's just what it is for me.  I've found that.  I've spent two and a half years being lost basically.

Q.  Do you think it's a common sin out here for a guy to  -- instead of, as you said, try to do what he does just a little bit better to completely try to retool to get there?
BRANDT JOBE: No, there's a lot of guys.  There's a lot of guys that probably wish they never did it.  I wish I took what I had and tried to improve on that instead of trying to do something different.  We're all trying to get better.  I mean, that's the bottom line, you know, and sometimes, hey, it's great  -- my situation, I was playing very well in Japan and had a low-world ranking, and I said, boy, I've got to take it to the next level.  I was finishing 15th, 16th in the majors but I thought, I want to do better, and this is the right thing, and it didn't work.  Luckily I hung in there and just kind of battled through it, but it's been a battle.

Q.  How about the idea, in general, of guys changing their swings or picking up some fundamentals based on what Woods is doing.  Obviously he's a tremendous model.  Is there a lot of that going on, studying the swing and say I need to be here, here and here?
BRANDT JOBE: Probably it started with Faldo.  He revamped his swing with Leadbetter and he was beating everybody's brains in there for a while with a beautiful golf swing, and that Tiger took that pretty swing and added power to it.  There you go, I mean  -- I think all of us  -- the game has really changed in the last five or six years.  It's just gotten so much  -- look at this rough we're playing in this week.  It's got to be five or six inches, especially a foot off the fairway.  It just has really turned into a power game, and strength is just a huge key.  You know, like everybody out here, we're all just trying to get better and sometimes we make mistakes by trying to change everything and maybe we just need to refine things.

Q.  Are you a lot stronger now?  You said I have to become stronger.  Has that affected your swing at all?
BRANDT JOBE: No, I've been fortunate.  I've always had pretty good length, so it's not something I've sat and worked on trying to get longer.  If anything I've tried to get straighter.  I tried to do some new things and have a better swing so to speak.  It didn't work for me, and now I'm trying to get back to being able to hit the shots that I want to hit and having confidence that if I'm going to play a draw it's not going to go left, if I'm going to play fade, it's not going to go left.  You get in trouble double-crossing.  I'm nowhere near where I need to be, but it's definitely improving.  It's nice.  Seven cuts in a row, that's improvement right there.  You know, one Top 10 in that stretch was  -- you know, I need to keep working hard on what I'm doing, and I'm seeing results.  That's what's nice.

Q.  Are you doing anything better through that stretch?  Is it just ball striking or are you making a few more putts?
BRANDT JOBE: Well, I think when you hit the ball  -- when you start hitting the ball well you start giving yourself more opportunities.  The more opportunities you get the more you're going to make, so it all goes hand in hand.  When you're struggling and hitting all over the place and you're hitting 10, 12 greens but you're hitting 30, 40 feet there's no opportunity.  Now you're hitting 12 or 13 greens and like I did today you're hitting a couple shots two or three feet, that's not much stress in there.  I think yesterday I hit 16 greens or something, so it's getting better, it's just  -- you've just got to keep working on it.  I mean, today I didn't play all that well.

Q.  Is that a departure then for you historically?  You say I didn't play all that well, yet you're sitting in here and tied for the lead.  If you'd have said that three months ago or this time last year, if you hadn't played well, would you have shot a round like you did today?
BRANDT JOBE: I missed the ball well.  That's what we're talking about.  I missed the ball very well today.  The shots that I didn't hit well turned out fine.  I made a couple good putts out there, but for the most part  -- that's the other thing, you know, your misses.  We're only as good as our misses, and I missed the ball pretty well today when I didn't hit a good shot.
TODD BUDNICK: Everybody good?



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT