U.S. SENIOR OPEN
July 2, 2017
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BRANDT JOBE: Good week.  I had a lot of ups and downs, obviously.  First two days, kind of played pretty ordinary.  Obviously, everything came together in the third round, hit it well, putted well.   
Today was a struggle, didn't hit it as well.  Kind of was like my first two days.  I had three very ordinary and one real good one.  There you go.   
But it was tough.  It played tough today, I thought.  The pins, a lot of knobs.  There was a few pins that there was just no possible way to even get it close on par 5s.  One of the par 5s on the front.   
 Q.  (No microphone)?  
BRANDT JOBE: Yeah.  And then that par 3 -- what is it, 15 -- from 235, you can't even -- you're really trying to hit it 40 feet and two-putt.  Obviously, the golf course played more difficult.  That's kind of what I expected more on the week.   
Things got a little firmer.  Ball ran out a little bit, and I don't think the scores were all that good today.  So today is probably how they wanted the golf course to play all week.   
It was frustrating out there.  It was just hard to get the golf ball close.   
 Q.  Third place, this kind of event.  
BRANDT JOBE: You know what?  Great.  Hey, after two days, if you'd have told me that, I'd be happy.  I wish I'd played better today.  I had a chance early on in the round to really get something going.   
Got a couple under quick.  Hit a great sand wedge right at the pin, it goes over the green, and basically a pretty easy chip and I don't get it up and down.  I hit a real good putt.   
That kind of set the tone for the rest of the day.  I just struggled getting the ball close.  I think it was a great week.  As players, we enjoyed ourselves here.  Really nice golf course.   
Unfortunately, like I said earlier, I think Mother Nature made it a little easier than I think it would have been.  Members would have liked it to be like today and more, which would have been a totally different test.   
 Q.  You waited a long time to win here in the states.  
BRANDT JOBE: Yeah, I just waited.  I just said, what the heck, I'm going to wait.   
 Q.  Having done it, do you think it will be different?  Do you think it will free you up a little bit?  
BRANDT JOBE: Like I said earlier, you're always measured on what you've won.  I mean, not how many third places you get or seconds or fifths or how much money you made, but how many wins you have.   
Obviously, a few weeks ago, winning up in Des Moines, that was good for me because I've been close several other times.  PGA last year, I had a good shot when Rocco was going, and I made some mistakes.  Hey, I'm going to continue to make mistakes.  I've just got to learn from the mistakes.   
But my bad game is getting better, and my bad shots are getting better.  So, overall, I didn't play my best this week, but I had a very good week.  So I did a lot of good things.  I managed my game, putted well, chipped pretty well for the most part.   
So at the end of the week, it's just been a very good week.  I enjoyed myself.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT