SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 28, 2016
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  (No Microphone.)  
BRANDT JOBE: The course played hard today.  Trying to pick the right number to hit it and where you wanted to hit it, because the wind was moving around a bunch.  But I got off to a great start, birdied the first and I think I birdied 5.  And just made a bunch of pars, plate pretty solid.  Had a bunch of good chances and made a nice par save on 7.  So overall pretty solid front nine.   
Back nine, I got the 10th hole back from yesterday.   
(Laughter.)   
I had 7-iron again, hit it just left of the pin there about 15, 18 feet, made that for eagle.   
Then had a bunch of good chances, missed a short one on 13, about 5-footer for birdie.   
Then hit it on the back edge of 15 in two with a drive and a 5-iron.  And 2-putted.   
Then 17, basically played the hole incorrectly.  We were saying, we were kind of thinking that the wind was left-to-right, didn't want to miss it right, trying to hit it in the middle of the green.  I think the wind was actually off the right and I got unlucky.  I hit it on the edge and rolled to the back of the bunker where you just can't -- it's not playable.  I couldn't even stand.  And I cold bladed it, because I can't get the angle of the club down on the angle that you're standing in the bunker.  So I think that unlucky, pretty severe area.  And then from there just kind of I tried to get cute with the next bunker shot in the other bunker to try and get it up-and-down.  And then the next one just hit it on there and hit a good putt.   
18, played 18 solid.  Hit a good 3-wood and hit a 9-iron just right and almost made the putt.  So overall frustrating I didn't play the 17th hole correctly.  And it got me.   
 Q.  What are the emotions like that when you're within one of the lead and then 17 happens?  
BRANDT JOBE: Well, let's see, I made two doubles yesterday and a triple today.  I'm playing good, just making mistakes.  So, if I can eliminate some mistakes, there's got to be one more good one out there, so we'll see tomorrow.   
 Q.  Obviously, though you're very much in contention, what does that mean going into the final round of a Major?  
BRANDT JOBE: Right now, I'm so frustrated, it doesn't mean that much.  But if you sit back and you start the week and say, hey, I'm 10-under and I think 14 leading, is that right?  And I have an opportunity, that's all can you ask for.  I'm just disappointed right now, because I just wasted so many shots out there.   
I'm playing solid, so it's just frustrating now because I just finished up, but I'm looking forward to it again tomorrow.  I'm making a lot of birdies and good things are happening, so I just need to kind of keep it together for 18.   
 Q.  You start tomorrow a handful of shots back, is it gettable?  
BRANDT JOBE: Yes, out here it is.  I think this is one of those courses you saw Rocco shoot 62 the first day, I think it's going to be windy, it gets tougher, obviously being at the back of the end with the leads, so I think you can, this is a course that can have a lot of movement, yes.   
 Q.  And what part of your game tomorrow can you lean on late in the round?  
BRANDT JOBE: Not my brain right now.  That failed me.   
But I've been hitting the ball pretty well, I've been driving it very well.  For the most part I thought I had been thinking pretty well.  So, I'm playing well, I'm just, I made a couple, a few mistakes have really killed me out here.  That's the nature of the beast out here, too.   
 Q.  How do you balance that frustration with still maybe realizing that you have a shot at this?  
BRANDT JOBE: I'm going to go hit a few balls and try and kind of chill out a little bit and then come back tomorrow and play.  I'm having fun.  This is fun.  This is what we want to do.  Par today that was fun.  It's fun to be nervous, it's fun to -- you fail, I said you're going to succeed and fail yesterday and I was succeeding for a long time and then failed.   
So, jump back up on the horse and go get 'em again.  That's kind of all you can do.   
 Q.  How much did the wind affect your strategy for playing the course today?  
BRANDT JOBE: You got to realize I think on the first tee that if you get under par, that's a solid round today.  If it would have been like the first two days I would have said, boy I need to go out and shoot 4-under, 5-under to keep pace.  But today with the wind, you knew that anything under par was a good round of golf.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT