SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2016
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You played really well today.  Take us through your day.
BRANDT JOBE: I had a roller coaster.  Front nine was real good.  Made a few birdies to start out with, which obviously got me going through five holes.
Made a bogey on 8.  Just kind of got on a pretty steep slope, trying to knock it down, hit it a little heavy and it plugged in the bunker.  So that was actually a pretty good bogey.
Made a nice birdie on 9 to get through the front nine 3-under.
Then the back nine was an adventure.
I had 7-iron into 10 and made double from the middle of the fairway.  So that wasn't very good.
I blocked it right, went in the hazard.  I thought I could play it out of it, got it out, didn't have a swing, into the bunker, and just on the green and made 7.
Then birdied 12, 13.
Parred 14.
Birdied 15.  I hit the par-5 in two.
And then made two good putts on 16 and 17.
And then probably hit the wrong club off of 18.  I was pushing it and I put bunkers in play I shouldn't have.  I just blocked it and hit it right and the penalty there is pretty severe.  So, it was a double.  I hit a good shot in and missed an 8-, 10-footer that I thought I made.
So, overall, two, I guess you could say, really bad double bogeys.  Other than that, some really good play.
Q. You got to be a pretty good feeling to be in contention at a Major at the midway point.
BRANDT JOBE: It is.  This is a good place to be, up here.  I've had a tough year, I haven't played well, I haven't played a lot of golf in the last few years with some injuries.  So for me, this is why we do it, it's fun and, obviously, one of the bigger events, it's even nicer.  So I'm excited for the weekend.
Q. When Rocco goes low yesterday it creates a number for you to chase.  How does it feel to be able to put up back to back 67s and play your way right into this?
BRANDT JOBE: Good.  I didn't see 9-under out there ever.  So yesterday when we saw the scores, I guess that kind of told us -- being my first time here, I didn't know what to expect and I think that 13-under's been a good score around here in the past.
So, for him to shoot 9-under, it kind of, you kind of reset your mind and say, okay, here we go, we got to go.
So I'm happy with how I played.  I haven't been playing well this year.  I struck the ball very well the last couple days.  I putted much better today.  So, you just got to keep giving yourself opportunities to try and get it in the right quadrant here, which is really important.  So ball striking's a big key.
Q. What will you try and do tomorrow?
BRANDT JOBE: I think eliminate the mistakes, obviously, which I didn't do a good job of today.  But I think just stick with the same game plan.  Every time I tried to get aggressive out here, I made a mistake.  So I think it's, hit it in the right area, give your self an opportunity, and move on.  And be a little more patient.  I was trying to go and I got caught going.
Q. Talk about the course conditions today versus yesterday.
BRANDT JOBE: Yeah, surprisingly, it was still fairly firm in the fairways.  So the ball did roll out.  So it didn't really play any longer.  I think the wind was a little trickier today and a little stronger.
At times it picked up, it switched around and moved on us a few times.  Obviously, being a little cooler, I don't think the ball goes quite as far.  But in terms of being dry and running out and greens rolling nicely, everything was very similar.
I think that the wind was just tricky this morning, even a little trickier than yesterday afternoon, because it kind of laid down the last five or six holes and here it would pick up and stop and pick up and stop and then switch directions.  So it was a little more challenging with the wind this morning.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT