SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2016
Brandt Jobe
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. When you were medalist in Q-School how did that set you up for this year?  Did you think this was, all right, I can handle this, or what exactly was the dynamic there?
BRANDT JOBE: I'm in a really weird area.  I'm like, I don't know what my number is exactly, but I'm a few hundred thousand dollars from being fully exempt out here.  Having the opportunity to be fully exempt or being inside that net 70.
So for me it's, get out here, and I think my expectations of myself are to play better than what I played.  And again, you know, if I go back a year ago, year and a half ago, they said you wouldn't play golf again, so here I am.  So I got to be happy with that.
But two shoulder surgeries and sitting on the sidelines for two and a half years, I literally went to therapy, physical therapy five days a week for a year, to try and get back.  It was a nightmare.
So it's been a long road.  Nice, obviously, going to Q-School, seeing some things work.  I've been working with Jon Sinclair, that's been great.  And it's getting there.  I still have a little ways to go, but -- and like I said earlier, I played very poorly this year.  I haven't hit the ball well.
That's kind of my thing, to take advantage of my length.  And I haven't been doing that.  The last couple days I did a pretty good job of that.
Q. Both shoulders or just one?
BRANDT JOBE: Left.
Q. What is it you felt like you can't do now that you would be able to, you hope to be able to do with your game?
BRANDT JOBE: I think for me it's, I tried to make some changes, and because of things that won't hurt my shoulder, so to speak, and things I can and can't do now.
And I'm getting closer.  I thought, after TOUR school, I said, boy, I got this all figured out.  And that didn't work out so well.
So now I kind of had to go back to the drawing board a little bit and figure out, well why was that working, why hasn't it been working, and what's working now.  So, a couple little minor things in my back swing and it's been solid.
Q. Is it an every round you come you don't really know exactly what you're going to get?
BRANDT JOBE: No, because yesterday I hit the ball really good.  I hit it better yesterday than I hit it today.  I just didn't make a putt.  I shot 4-under and didn't make any putts.
So, that's when I said, okay, I got on the range again today and I thought, hey, this is starting to work.
But it's been getting better.  I got the problem, I just couldn't get the fix.  And I think I'm on the right path.  And today was very good.  I made two swings, one that shouldn't have been that bad, and then one bad one.  And they were both right and it's been left.  So I can't even really get that mad.
Q. Is that the two doubles?
BRANDT JOBE: Yeah.
Q. What was the club on 18?  Was that the problem?
BRANDT JOBE: I was hitting 3-wood, but that brings that left bunker right into play.  What I should have done is just hit a 2-iron to the center.  And I got greedy.  I thought, man, I'm going to rip this down the middle, knock it in there close, and make another putt.
I should have slowed down and said, hey, let's go with what I have been doing, which is hit it to the fat of the fairway, take what you get, hit the next shot.
And that's kind of the way I have to play this golf course.  If I start getting too aggressive, it kind of bites me a little bit.
Q. Is that because it's such a quirky golf course and I use that word gently.
BRANDT JOBE: Well, I think tee to green it's good.  You got to hit the ball well.  The idea behind the greens, I look at it as quadrants.  That I've got to hit it in the right quadrant.  If I don't hit a good shot and I have a crazy putt, which has happened, it's because I didn't hit a good shot in there.
So, maybe it's a defense, but -- I don't know exactly what the idea on some of the areas of the greens are, but they're tough, I'll tell you that.
Q. The last surgery was when?
BRANDT JOBE: Last surgery was in 2014, end of -- 2014.
Q. And you did that, did you know what was going to be the result, that you would have to have a year of rehab?
BRANDT JOBE: No, the first one is at the end of 2013 and they said, all right, it's probably going to be three or four months of rehab.  You'll be back, everything will be perfect.
After two months I couldn't even move my shoulder.  And I snapped my bicep tendon, all these things happened.
So he said, okay, I'm going to go back in there, an hour and a half later, an hour and a half surgery, fix it up, we'll all be good.
And he was in there four hours and he was like, this is a mess.  And he said, I fixed a lot of things.  There's, you have tears everywhere.  And we all do.  It's part of getting older.  That's the beauty of it, right?
(Laughter.)
But what works and doesn't work for everybody for each individual is different.  So, he said, hey, I'm not going to tell you you're not going to play, but there's a lot of damage and we'll see.
So, I just went at it with the idea of, okay, let's go as hard as I can, what else am I going to do, and just rehab.  So Doctor John Conway in Fort Worth did a great job.  He set me up with Mike Macko, a physical therapist, and I worked with a bunch of baseball players and stuff and every day.  I went for an hour and a half, two hours and just, that was my thing for a year.
And you know what?  After, I would say, about nine months, I started swinging it and it was all right.  It was sore, but then it got better and better.  Now, it's good.  It's not a problem.  It's just maintenance.
I got to do all my little exercises every day and things like that and how long is it going to last?  I don't know.  But at least I get to play right now.
Q. How long do the maintenance exercises a day take?
BRANDT JOBE: 15 minutes.  It's nothing major, it's just getting it warmed up and getting it going.
Q. Before the round.
BRANDT JOBE: Um-hum.  And then if I have some time off, then you start doing some light weight work and stuff and try and strengthen it a little bit.  Or I'll even call up the guy I work with, Mike, and can go down and see him a few times.  So just keep it maintained.
Q. Last question, you hear so often golfers, the real good golfers, say that they got too aggressive.  Isn't that kind of the nature of the beast?  Isn't it hard for you guys to kind of back off?
BRANDT JOBE: Yeah, I think, when it's going bad, it's easy to back off.  But when it's going well -- I did a great job of it today, I could have gone for the ninth green in two, I stood back there, I waited, and I laid up and ended up making birdie anyway.
And I did that yesterday on 15.  I could have gotten there easily, and I said, no, and I laid up and made birdie.
So, it's kind of like I got to make sure that all the shots fit me.  And on 18 right there, I really don't have any safe place, I've got to keep it right of the left bunker and I just blocked it out there right.
I could have hit a 2-iron 250 yards down there and probably had a 5-, 6-, 7- in and made a nice par or given myself an opportunity.  So that's on me.  I'm the one who swung that one, so.
Q. When is the last time you were in this position that you can remember?
BRANDT JOBE: Well, I mean at the big Q-School.
(Laughter.)
No, it's been awhile.  It's been probably since you were saying all these those nice things about me.  When was that, 2013?  Yeah.  Because I got hurt at the end of 2013.  So it was probably 2012 and 2013 and then I got hurt.
Q. Is there ever a concern at your level, because you've done this for so long that at some point if you're in the hunt on Sunday, the emotions and the adrenaline is going to over take and you're going to have a hard time dealing with that or addressing it?
BRANDT JOBE: I think that's the fun of it, I really do.  I think that's what we all do it for.  I mean, I think that anybody who plays sports, golf, tennis, basketball, baseball, whatever, that's the fun of it.  The pressure and being nervous and how you handle it.  Sometimes you thrive on it and sometimes it takes you down.  But I think that's what we're all striving is to put ourselves in that position and find out where we're at.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT