PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2010
Tim Thelen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about coming out this morning. 
 TIM THELEN: I was playing well, I was hitting it well, and you really don't want to start on 17 when you have a 211-yard par 3 with just Lake Michigan on the left. 

 Q. How did you do on the tee shot? Walk me through that hole?
 TIM THELEN: It was just a solid 3-iron for me. I aimed it right at the left side of the big mound on the right with the bunker, and it hooked a little bit too much, but caught the left edge of the green and 2-putted from there. 
 Hit a bad drive on 18, and had to lay it up and you know, just missed the putt for par. But all in all I hit a lot of fairways, a lot of greens, really happy with the round.

 Q. Sounds like you know this place. 
 TIM THELEN: '99 was the last time I played it. The tees are a lot different. They are playing, for me, long. They have got I think four par 4s over 500. But the 3-hybrid and 2-hybrid are working.

 Q. This is your ninth trip to the PGA, and I know you want to play the weekend; do you feel a little more relaxed that at least you know what to expect? 
 TIM THELEN: Yeah, I'm with a great group of Paul Goydos and Fernandez-Castaño. Great guys and I felt very relaxed on the first tee when I got up there. 
 I'm out there having fun, and that's what I think it's all about. Whether I go out this afternoon and shoot, you know, 65 or 68, I'm still going to go out there and have a good time with these guys.

 Q. How is the putting? 
 TIM THELEN: Good. The greens are hard to read and I made the ones I needed to. I missed a couple of I should have made and didn't have any 3-putts and I think that's the key out here.

 Q. Does the championship with the start and stop, do you just have to take it as and comes and relax pace yourself?
 TIM THELEN: Yeah, I just went in the locker room and grabbed a chair. And when I heard it was 30 minutes went out and hit a few golf balls to get ready.

 Q. Were you prepared coming into this week?
 TIM THELEN: Yes and no. I get to play golf two days a week whether I like to or not. So I did some good work while I was here, I hit the ball well in the practice round, so I had a little bit of confidence coming in. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT