PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2010
Tim Thelen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you just speak about the experience, nine times you've been here, and that's not easy to do.   
 TIM THELEN: It's not easy to do, and especially how much we get to play golf. I play twice a week. I play Mondays with the members and on Friday afternoons with the members.   
 So, you know, to come here -- it took a little preparation. We had a couple of section events that I played in, and you know, and played well. And you know, just when you get here, you've got to practice the correct way, because you're not used to practicing so you can actually over-practice and get tired.   
  
  Q. Was there a redeeming factor, even though we don't know what today may bring, a redeeming factor in the way you played this year as opposed to previous years?   
 TIM THELEN: Yeah, this was probably the best I've hit the ball. I've played, you know, fairly well in a few others, but this week, I really didn't know what to expect and got out there yesterday and got it under par and got it 2-under on the back nine today to get it 3-under for the day and just started making bogeys.   
 You know, I kept my spirits up and just kept plugging away and tried to make birdie on the way in and I just couldn't do it.  
  
  Q. It's not so much the pressure but just the way the course is set up for you; is that the way it was?  
 TIM THELEN: There's a few easy holes that you've got to make birdie on the easy holes up here, I should say not easy, but short holes. They have four par 4s over here from 489 to 520, and those, I'm going in, because I'm not a long-ball hitter, I'm going in with either 3-hybrid or 2-hybrid.   
 17 out there is just an unbelievable hole. I don't know what I made the second round today, I can't remember, but I hit 3-iron both times and just hit it great both times.   
 I think I made bogey today and just missed it from just off the green, but it's a great golf course.   
  
  Q. You wouldn't have seen this, but you were on TV, TNT and you got to No. 14 on the back side, you were 3-under for the tournament and then what happened after that?  
 TIM THELEN: Actually, I pulled a drive a little bit, but I had a really good lie in the rough, which you don't get too many of them out here. I hit it in the fescue. If you hit it in the fescue, you've got a chance. If you hit it in the bluegrass that they have there, that's pretty sticky. I didn't hit a very good shot out, left it short of the green and made bogey.   
 On 16, I had a wedge in my hand and made bogey. Actually just pulled it a touch from the line that I had picked out and, you know, just hit it in the rough just off the green and it was kind of sitting down and tried to bump a little hybrid too hard and missed a 5-footer coming back.   
 You know, I knew from there, I had to make a couple of birdies -- once I got it to 2-over, I tried to make birdie coming in and I just couldn't do it.   
  
  Q. This Pete Dye course has a lot more touches to it, doesn't it.   
 TIM THELEN: Absolutely. With the wind blowing out here right now, you have to trust where you're going to hit it. There's gorse bushes out there and bunkers that are out probably 400 or 500 yards that you aim at because a lot of times you don't see the landing area. So you just aim at that and hopefully the wind takes it to the correct position in the fairway.   
  
  Q. You told me earlier that you might be headed down to try for Champions Tour school; is that right?  
 TIM THELEN: Yeah, that's where I'm going to go in November over in Europe. My birthday falls in June so would not be conducive for me to try it over here. I'd probably get to play in three events and then have a reshuffle, unless I play well in those events.  
 If I go over there, they have more than half their season done and they don't have a reshuffle. I have my entry into Portugal and we'll go from there.   
  
  Q. Have you been to Europe before other than PGA Cup experiences?   
 TIM THELEN: I have not. One of the things I looked at in Portugal is what side of the road they drive on, and it was the right side of the road and I said, well, I feel good there. Hopefully down the line I'll learn how to drive on the other side of the road.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT