AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 9, 2003
Nick Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You've been struggling late in the season and in the playoffs, but do you take solace that your two hits in the post-season have been really big ones? 

NICK JOHNSON:   A little bit, but I just try to go in and work hard every day on my swing.  Whenever game time comes, just let it fly and see what happens.

Q.  Reggie just said that he and your uncle have given you some tips the last couple of days that you seemed to use tonight.  Anything you can share with us? 

NICK JOHNSON:   They talked to me about shortening up my stance because they said my base was a little wide.  I thought about it, and doing it in BP just to see if it's comfortable.  I don't know if I did it, but just trying to be comfortable and be aggressive. 

Q.  Can you talk a little bit about the confidence Joe to ever tore see has shown in you and what he does as a manager to keep his players loose? 

NICK JOHNSON:   A lot of confidence.  I'm in there.  I haven't been swinging the bat that well, but, you know, you've just got to keep battling and try to get on base for the other guys and work the count.  Just get on base, try to score some runs.

Q.  What does he do to help you do that? 

NICK JOHNSON:   Leave me in the game, showing a little confidence in me, letting me play and see what happens.

Q.  You said after you got the hit in the Minnesota series that you had been looking for something in a particular spot, is that sort of what you were doing this time?

NICK JOHNSON:   Not really.  Derek  Lowe throws a lot of sinkers and you have to try to get the ball up.  That pitch I hit was a little cutter.  Just trying to look, middle of the plate and adjust, try not to look too much, just see it and hit it. 

Q.  Do you think it really helps the team, like two struggling hitters like you and Giambi come out of it during a game?  How is the mood in the dugout when you guys finally break out like that?

NICK JOHNSON:   It's good.  We got some more guys on base.  When you get on base, anything can happen.  You know we haven't been hitting the ball that well, but each at bat you put it behind and move forward and you've got a bat in your hands, you're dangerous when you go to the plate.  Just have confidence and try to get a base hit. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT