CACTUS BOWL: KANSAS STATE VS UCLA
December 23, 2017
Jacob Tuioti-Mariner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: It's a great opportunity to play another game.  So thankful to the committee here at the Cactus Bowl for selecting us and everything.  Our opponents, Kansas State, it's good to meet them again.  I met them freshman year at the Alamo Bowl.  That was a good game, and I'm hoping it's going to be a good game.  I know it's going to be a good game.   
 Q.  They talked about that one earlier here --  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: Yeah.  It was a great game.  Kansas State is a good opponent.  I'm happy we got with them?   
 Q.  When you guys look at your situation, with Coach Mora getting let go and Coach Fisch now in charge, and Coach Kelly coming in, what's that been like for the players?  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: It's unfortunate for us as players that came in with Coach Mora.  But with Fisch coming in and filling in that spot, all the players are still motivated to keep going on with the season.  And I know Coach Fisch has done a really good job doing that, keeping our players motivated.  And our teammates that's here is and as long as the other seniors that's been on, we always try to continue on with the season here.   
 Q.  What's the biggest issue now that you face against K-State on Tuesday?  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: They bring that physicality.  We're going to try to pair it up with them and stuff.  They bring a few schemes for offenses and everything.  And I know for defense they have some stuff going on for our offense and everything.   
 Q.  How important is it for you as a leader on the defense to get these guys in place and make sure they are lined up where they should be?  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: Kind of the theme for this year was the defense was young, but now we don't say that; everyone's a veteran on this defense now.  We've all played a game in this season.  So these young guys that have been playing this season, you know, they've matured a lot.  And I'm very proud how they have and how they've been doing this season.   
 Q.  You guys came into the season you said the guys were young, a lot of young guys.  What's that like for you?  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: It was kind of different because stepping up as a senior leader being the veteran of the group, because I was always the young guy learning from other people like (indiscernible), Eddie Vanderdoes, Kenny Clark, Tak McKinley.  I had to take a piece out of each and every single one of those defensive linemen, mold it into my own and show these young guys how UCLA defensive linemen can play.   
 Q.  Any difference playing in Chase Field, the D-backs' stadium, it's indoors --  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: It's funny because this is my second time playing on a baseball field because my high school championship game was played on the Angels Stadium.  I'm excited to play at the Chase Field.   
 Q.  A little different?  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: Yes, indoors.  It's different.   
 Q.  Obviously it's different seeing guys on film than on the field, but what do you expect from the K-State offense, in terms of their ground attack?  That's something --  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: They bring more of that physicality type of offense, more of the smash mouth football.  So we're going to match up with them and everything.   
 Q.  Is there a Pac-12 team or any team you played this season you can compare them to at all?  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: My opinion their run game similar to Stanford's and that sort of type of way.   
 Q.  They've had three different quarterbacks play this season.  Now they're on to this redshirt freshman who's shown some talent.  What have you seen from him on film and what type of threat does he provide?  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: He's a running guy.  He's a running guy and I know he's been filling up well for them.  So we're just going to try our best to stop that.   
 Q.  What would it mean for you guys, obviously you're going through a little bit of a coaching transition, so what would it mean for you to come out on top and finish the season --  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: It means everything.  I know for us as players but also for Coach Mora.  Always been a player's guy, a player's coach.  This will mean a lot to him as well as Coach Fisch.  We played for them and they coach for us.  So it's a family here at UCLA.   
 Q.  How difficult has the period been, between coaching staffs?  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: It was unfortunate.  We really didn't see it coming.  But we've been accepting the fact that we need to continue on this season and continue to focus on what's at task and everything.  And each week is a new week.  So whether it's Coach Mora or Coach Fisch, we still have to go on the field and everything.   
 Q.  Describe Coach.  I know he's dealt with the offense mostly --  
JACOB TUIOTI-MARINER: He's a great coach.  Great coach.  The defense has full trust in him.  We've been accepting his coaching and everything.  So I know he's trying his best to be on the defensive field because it's kind of weird at practice looking back we see Coach Fisch there because he's always on the offense.  But he's a great coach.  He's very smart, very smart guy.  I'm happy for Coach Fisch.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT