AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 3, 2000
Paul Abbott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Just your thoughts on facing your first post-season assignment in a couple of days
and all that, the whole atmosphere and the whole deal. It's a new territory for you. 
 
 PAUL ABBOTT: Something growing up that I definitely dreamed about, big-time baseball
fan, Dodger fan. They were in the post-season a lot. Really excited just to be able to say
I've done it, but hopefully it doesn't stop there. Hopefully it's one of a few more to end
the season.  
 
Q. Can you talk a little bit about your preparation for the White Sox? How much pregame
preparation did you put in for figuring out how to pitch to these guys?
 
 PAUL ABBOTT: Well, it's kind of a good thing that I get to see Freddy pitch before me,
I get to chart, watch the pitches. Because we're very similar in our styles, fastball,
changeup guys. I had one start with them this year, I have one tape here, watch it, kind
of see how I threw to some of the guys, make adjustments if some are needed. Just really
mainly to pay attention to what Freddy does. That was in May, and they're probably a lot
different than they were then. Just kind of gauge on Freddy.  
 
Q. Are you definitely tomorrow's starter? Has that been set? Or is it like Friday?
 
 PAUL ABBOTT: I think it's tomorrow. (Laughter.) I don't think I'd be here right now.  
 
Q. You never know. (Laughing.) So what's the rotation after that? Has Lou said anything
beyond you?
 
 PAUL ABBOTT: Chart's in my locker, so I'm assuming it's tomorrow.  
 
Q. Frank Thomas said yesterday that over the course of the season they've had their
best success against Mariners pitchers when they've been patient. When it's a young team,
can you hope they'll be maybe a little antsy, aggressive and hope they'll swing at some
bad pitches? 
 
 PAUL ABBOTT: Well, definitely I think they're such a dangerous line-up that the more
pitches they see, the more they're gonna learn from the pitcher, the pitcher's stuff that
they have at that time. So the more pitches we're gonna throw, the more of a chance we're
going to get to our bullpen. I really think that if we come out throwing our strikes, our
job is to come out throwing strikes, force them to swing bats and play more of our hands.
If they're kind of patient and we're not around the plate, it's going to play in their
lines. If you get behind the count in a line-up as potent as this, they're gonna hurt you.
 
 
Q. You've touched on this, but talk about the preparation on facing a line-up where the
No. 9 hitter has 30 homers and there don't appear to be any weak spots in it. 
 
 PAUL ABBOTT: Well, that's kind of a Catch-22 with this team, that they're a patient
team, with a lot of sock. You get a team like the A's who have a lot of bombers, they're
really overly aggressive. This team isn't like that. They're very patient and they're also
very dangerous. So you just got to make sure you get ahead and make sure that we're in
pitcher's counts instead of putting them in hitter's counts. That's the whole key to
pitching anyways, but a lot of teams are overly aggressive; you can get away with getting
behind every once in a while and throw some good pitches and still get away with it. But
this is a different kind of team; one through nine, they're patient and dangerous.  
 
Q. Do you recall what Frank Thomas has done against you this season? Does that make it
difficult going into tomorrow, just try to visualize that?
 
 PAUL ABBOTT: No, not really. I remember what he's done off me. I don't think it really
matters what I've done off of him this year. I've had some success. He's also had some
success. It's just a matter of making quality pitches to him because he's definitely their
main guy in the line-up. You don't want to let him beat you, but there's so many guys that
can beat you, you can't be too passive with him, you still have to be aggressive to him.
Otherwise, you're gonna have to put him on base and let other guys do the damage. So just
preparation with him is just to not be too fine and treat him like everybody else.  
 
Q. Could you talk about what this start means against the background of your career and
how long it's taken for you to get this big game. 
 
 PAUL ABBOTT: I guess it means that I've battled through some adversity with injuries
and such that -- I've kind of got lucky that I got a team as strong as this to be able to
get in this position. But, you know, I've learned not to take anything for granted at this
point in my career. Hopefully it would have happened a little bit sooner, but I'll take it
now. It just means it's a great opportunity also to add to my longevity, just to be able
to stay here longer.  
 
End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT