U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 20, 2015
Matt Perrine
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  We've got Matt Perrine, a 4 & 3 winner over Todd Mitchell, advancing to the quarterfinals of the U.S. Amateur.  How does that statement sound to you?  
MATT PERRINE: It's awesome.  It was a long day, but you know, it's one of those days that you just want to keep playing.  You never want to leave the golf course if you don't have to.   
 Q.  I noticed there were some high numbers both for you and Todd out there.  How did the wind affect play today?  
MATT PERRINE: There were a lot of holes where it would feel like it's dead into the wind, and then when you get up there and hit our tee balls and it would go straight for about 100 yards and all of a sudden just veer off.  We both got in some sticky situations out there a couple of times.   
 Q.  In match play you're always in a situation where you're playing against whatever your opponent does.  How did the conditions change that strategy?  
MATT PERRINE: Well, my game has always been just fairways and greens, and that's really helped me, especially in match play.  I haven't made as many birdies as I probably would have liked, especially in the last round, but if I'm in the fairway, I feel like I've got a good shot at always being in the hole and giving myself a good look at birdie.   
 Q.  What was your goal coming in?  
MATT PERRINE: My goal coming in was -- my first goal was just to make match play, and then from there it would just be obviously one match at a time.  I mean, I feel like I can compete with everyone out there and just see how far I can go.   
 Q.  In a match where nobody makes a birdie, does that get into your head a little bit?  Do you start thinking about, God, we're really playing good golf, or are you just trying to compete?  
MATT PERRINE: Well, it's just a one-on-one thing, so even though neither of us played very well, it was just who can get the ball in in the last amount of strokes.   
 Q.  How do you feel physically after two rounds?  
MATT PERRINE: I'm tired, you know, both mentally and physically, because it's not only two rounds today, but it's the two practice rounds and three days of competition, too.  I'm really ready to go tomorrow.  Any time you play in a big tournament, no matter how tired you are, you're excited, and you always feel a little bit of a reboot once you get to the /TP*EURT tee.   
 Q.  What will you do tonight?  Do you plan on practicing?  
MATT PERRINE: No.  I didn't putt as well as I would have liked, but that was just -- I think I was just a little bit tired.  I think the best thing I can do is just go get a good meal tonight and get a lot of rest and be mentally sharp for tomorrow.   
 Q.  Now that you advance to the quarterfinals, what does that do to your confidence level going into tomorrow?  
MATT PERRINE: It boosts it extremely.  I've played well all summer, finishing in the top 10 in all the events I've played.  I knew I've been playing well, and then this just really reaffirms it, playing against one of the 12 best players in the world.   
 Q.  Despite the conditions and the way you played today, how is your game shaping up as we go into the quarterfinals of the Am?  
MATT PERRINE: Very well.  I'm driving the ball extremely well.  I've hit the vast majority of fairways, on the correct side I wanted to be on, too, so I'm having good looks at attacking both the right pins and the left pins, so it's really put me in great position.   
 Q.  I would assume that you probably don't know much about Kenta Konishi?  
MATT PERRINE: I actually do.  I played the first two stroke play rounds with him, so we're excited.   
 Q.  What can you tell us about him?  
MATT PERRINE: He's quiet, but he can strike the golf ball.  He is meticulous.  He's a great player.  I'm excited to go up there and square off with him tomorrow, that's for sure.  We're going to have a good time.   
 Q.  He has a pretty fluid motion, too.  
MATT PERRINE: He does, yeah.  I was talking to his caddie because his caddie speaks English, and his caddie actually was caddying for Hideki Matsuyama, and I'm like, these guys are carbon copies.  They both strike it extremely well, and they both make it look easy.  I'm excited.  It's going to be fun out there.   
 Q.  Good to get that scouting report, huh?  
MATT PERRINE: Exactly.  I know what I'm going up against, and I think he does, too, so we're excited.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT