ITALIAN OPEN
October 10, 2019
Tapio Pulkkanen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. A 64, bogey-free. You must be delighted?
TAPIO PULKKANEN: Yeah, I'm really happy with the score. My putter was really hot today, and didn't make any bogeys, so it was good.
Q. You went out flying, especially towards the end of your front nine. Talk us through that stretch?
TAPIO PULKKANEN: Yeah, I made a lot of long putts, actually. I was just actually trying to lag it close, and made a lot of putts by that. I felt like the greens were really quick today. Especially in the morning, first group.
Monday, Tuesday, was not that quick, so I had to be really careful with the putting and made a lot of long putts, yeah.
Q. Second year on Tour, in position at a Rolex Series Event, how do you feel about your game, being out here for a while and adjusting to life on The European Tour?
TAPIO PULKKANEN: I think the first year was a learning year. Second year has been more comfortable being here. I haven't played that well in the Rolex tournaments, so kind of new situation, as well, but it's a long way to go and feel good about my game.
Q. But one to be very excited about?
TAPIO PULKKANEN: Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. I feel like my putter is really hot, so I can make some birdies on the weekend.
Q. What do you feel was the real key for you out there there?
TAPIO PULKKANEN: My putter was really hot today. I made a lot of putts, especially on the front nine. I was 5-under. I made a lot of long putts. It was perfect greens, so easy to make them.
Q. A little wind this morning. How nice to go out there and really take advantage of these conditions early on?
TAPIO PULKKANEN: Yeah, I didn't feel so comfortable with my warmup today. It was a little dark on the range and didn't hit it well. It was a super score, so I'm really happy.
Q. You're just outside of the top 100 in terms of The Race to Dubai. How do you earmark when you look at these Rolex Series Events which how key they are for really pushing up the rankings?
TAPIO PULKKANEN: Yeah, they are really big. I was outside at Wentworth and played really well at Wentworth and now hoping to make a move on the rankings this week.
Q. Do you have a strategy for the big events, the Rolex Series?
TAPIO PULKKANEN: Yeah, I've had a week off usually before the Rolex, so I try to concentrate on them, yeah.
Q. What's on your mind as you approach round two?
TAPIO PULKKANEN: I'm going to continue to do the same thing. I think my putting, I correct my aiming last week when I practiced. I was aiming a little bit right all the time. Aiming is good in the putting, and I need to practise my driving a little bit for tomorrow.
Q. You keep that putter hot, and the commentators have been lovely the style, the hat. The Italian fans like it?
TAPIO PULKKANEN: Yeah, they like it. I think the Italians know how to make hats, definitely.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT