JOHN DEERE CLASSIC MEDIA DAY
June 1, 2015
Chad Everett
Brian Harman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  CLAIR PETERSON:   Thank you.   I don't know if you noticed Brian Harman here, as well.   That was very moving, thank you.   You know, this is such an exciting day for us.   We do this every year, and we've been so fortunate to have our defending champion be gracious enough to come back for media day.   I've been trying to explain to Brian, Jeremy Elliott, his agent, is here, as well, how much this means to us, and you can tell by the number of cameras and the number of people in the room that it really is something that we are very appreciative of.   
You should know that a lot of people think that the PGA TOUR players lead this tremendously glamorous life, jetting in their private planes from place to place.   Brian's quest to get here revolved around slogging through pretty wet conditions at the Byron Nelson, playing all four rounds after finishing top 10 the week before at Colonial, having his flight canceled out of Dallas, so he didn't get into Chicago until 11:00 last night, where he and Jeremy jumped in a car and sped down I‑88 in a Hyundai, a very glamorous life.   He did not qualify for the upgrade, and got here at 1:30 in the morning.   We've had a chance to have breakfast with him, but we should all really thank Brian even more so for being here.   
There's a lot of people that are in the room that we want to recognize and thank, as well.   You'll hear from Chad Everett, our volunteer chair, in a few seconds, representing 1,500 volunteers, who obviously make it possible for us to do what we do and give a significant amount of money to charity.   
We've got Joe Taylor in the front row here, the Quad City Convention and Visitors Bureau, of which Joe is the head, has become the official sponsor of the media center, so you will all‑‑ I'm sure the food will be upgraded, the experience will be upgraded.   Everything will be tremendous.   
We did take cookies out of the media center one year and really got lambasted for that.   Barry reminded us exactly what's important.   
I don't know if Alex Stuedemann is in the room or not.   He's the head golf course superintendent.   You all are going to have a chance to play golf and will see an unbelievable product out there, just like we've been privileged to have since it first opened in 2000.   But it just keeps getting better and better, and I can't wait after your round of golf to hear your feedback because you're in for an experience that represents one of the great venues on the PGA TOUR.   
Todd Hajduk, the general manager, and Andy Stoterau, head professional, do a fantastic job, as well.   We've got Chad and Christina over here from the food and beverage.   Behind the scenes they're going to feed the players, and we couldn't be more proud to have the relationship we have with TPC Deere Run.   It's one of the, in my opinion, great places where the PGA TOUR stops, and it's owned and operated by the PGA TOUR, which we're proud of.   
Bill Becker from Deere&Company.   I saw him.   He's usually way in the back of the room.   He doesn't want much attention, just like our title sponsor, John Deere, is an unbelievable title sponsor.   I feel strongly that they're the best title sponsor on the PGA TOUR.   Since 1998 they've been our flagship supporter here in their hometown, and this event has improved every year.   I think those of you who have been here for a long time can verify that and validate that.   We're so fortunate to have them.   
I don't think I've stolen all your thunder yet, but it is a big deal to be up here, and it's a big deal to be 30 days or whatever away from the 45th John Deere Classic.   Representing all of the volunteers is our volunteer chair, Chad Everett.   
CHAD EVERETT:   Good morning, everyone, and welcome to the kickoff of the 2015 John Deere Classic.   As Clair mentioned, I'm proud to represent the more than 1,500 outstanding volunteers associated with the John Deere Classic.   They are an outstanding and dedicated group of volunteers.   They do their best every single year, and they are the foundation of our success.   Again, Brian, thanks for coming here today.   We heard your stories downstairs.   We know sometimes it's a difficult place to get, but we are very proud that you are here today and look forward to watching you defend your title here next month.   
I recently attended the PGA TOUR spring meetings at PGA headquarters in Ponte Vedra, and one of the TOUR VPs said in his remarks, great title sponsors equal great tournaments, and as Clair mentioned, we all know that we have the best title sponsor on the PGA TOUR in John Deere.   John Deere does so much for this tournament in every aspect.   They also give so much in every community in which they operate across the globe, and we are very proud that Deere is our title sponsor.   
We're also very fortunate to have Clair Peterson, our tournament director, representing John Deere in this tournament.   Clair and his staff do an amazing job.   As you know, we had a couple longtime employees retire last year, so we invested in people, and we shored up the ranks in the stone house.   We added new responsibilities, positions, and talents, and although they've accomplished a lot to date, I think we're also very excited about their future contributions as we are poised for great success in the future.   
So a big thank you to Clair and his staff for all the great things they do.   Thank you, Clair.   
Also I wanted to recognize the board of directors.   Some of them are here in the back as always in their traditional blue attire.   They also are volunteers and community leaders, and they spend a significant amount of time dedicated to achieving our mission.   Our mission includes promoting volunteerism, providing putting on a world‑class PGA TOUR event, and also we measure our success in the amount of charity dollars that we give each year through our Birdies For Charity program.   
With the generosity of John Deere and our great partner in the John Deere foundation and their very significant matching grant, as well as our tournament's financial success, we have delivered some very impressive charity results.   In fact, to date, we have raised more than $62 million to local charities.   
In each of the last three years, we have raised more than $6 million to over 470 charities.   In addition, each year for the last two years, we have provided a second check, a bonus check, in the amount of 10 percent on those dollars, and I think with the bankers in the room, I would say that's a very impressive return in today's markets.   
Those charity results rank us No.1 on the PGA TOUR on a per capita basis, as well as in the top 10 overall, which is truly remarkable for a community our size.   But more importantly, these charity dollars help those charities achieve their missions, which in turn will improve the overall quality of life in our communities.   
This is the 45th year of having a PGA TOUR event in our community, and I think our great chairman Divot said it best last year, when she said our John Deere Classic champions are a very important part of our John Deere Classic family.   And Brian Harman joins 18 others who have also earned their first PGA TOUR victory here at this tournament.   He joins an impressive list of first time winners here like Jordan Spieth, David Toms, Payne Stewart, John Senden, and D.A. Weibring, our course designer.   
So Brian, we're glad you're a part of our John Deere Classic family, and we look forward to you defending your title here where magic happens.   
Again, I want to thank you for all of your continued support to the John Deere Classic, and I'll turn it back to Clair.   
CLAIR PETERSON:   Thanks, Chad.   Yeah, it's just a great continuing story, and we are, like I say, so excited about this 2015 event we're about to have.   It tells you how long I've been doing this.   
We've got, with Brian leading the way, the champions from our last six tournaments are going to be here, which is tremendous.   As Chad said, we have a special affinity for all of the champions that we've gotten to know.   Brian last year, Jordan Spieth the year before that, is going to be here, Zach Johnson the year before that.   I don't know if a lot of you remember, but Brian played that Sunday in 2012 with Zach and has talked about it being a real important part of his being ready to win last year, knew what it would feel like and pulled it off.   
And then before Zach in '09, '10 and '11 Steve Stricker was our champion, and he'll be here.   
After we get past those four, no one really cares what I talk about.   I will tell you that as you follow the PGA TOUR, it's amazing to see the level of talent, the names that appear on the leaderboard every week.   Brian is at the ripe old age of 28, and I had to chuckle when I heard actually he played with Rory McIlroy at THE PLAYERS Championship, Brian did, and Rory, as a 26 year old, was talking about the young kids that are coming out and challenging him.   
Brian has had an unbelievably accomplished golf career.   I don't know if everyone understands the many events that he participated and won.   He was the No.1 amateur in the country, won the U.S. Junior Amateur, won the Players Amateur.   He's been on two Walker Cups, won the Porter Cup at 22‑under par.   He might have used that to remember as he went 20‑under last year.   
He had top 10 finishes in 11 of 14 starts on the developmental Tour, eGolf Tour, played for the University of Georgia, where last year there were six winners on the PGA TOUR from the University of Georgia, so you can imagine how competitive a team that was, what kinds of situations, high‑level golf situations that all of those players have been in, and I'm sure that Brian would say that those experiences helped him get ready to succeed on the PGA TOUR.   
We all enjoyed last year, on the 72nd hole, his then fiancÃ© Kelly running out on the green.   They've since gotten married on a day that we will never forget because Amy Fenn in our office also got married on December 13, 2014.   If you write that out, it's 12/13/14.   I'm told that there are a lot of people that got married that day, but it's obviously a big deal.   I heard Brian today talk about how balanced his life is and how happy he is, and we're just happy that he's here.   Brian Harman, our defending champion, a few comments.   
BRIAN HARMAN:   I want to clear one thing up about that wedding day.   My wife wanted to get married the last weekend in October, but that was the Georgia‑Auburn weekend.   I said, we've got to get married this week.   
Clair mentioned Jeremy, my agent, he's here, and what he does for us is unbelievable.   We were talking in the parking lot, and he goes‑‑ you know, he's involved in a lot of these media days, and he goes, it's crazy how many people show up for this one, and I think it's a testament to how important this tournament is, this area.   It shows how much everyone here enjoys golf, enjoys good golf, and the support that the tournament gets from it is just unbelievable.   It's an honor to be a champion of a tournament like that, to feel the support, and I can't thank you all enough for that.   Big round of applause for everyone that showed up in this room.   
Clair also alluded to the fact that I played with Zach a few years ago and watched him win and that was really the first time I had gotten in contention on a PGA TOUR event.   I can't really describe the feeling that I had last year, so to come back and like you say, get the job done, it was an experience I'll never forget.   John Deere will always have a special place for me, and I can't ever imagine not wanting to come back to this golf tournament.   It's been‑‑ it's one of my favorites, and I really enjoy the area.   I've been a little bit involved before with Mr.Ontiveros, and I just love it out here.   
I'd love to answer any questions you guys have.   I don't really have anything prepared.   They didn't tell me I needed to bring a bunch of notes.   
   
 Q.   You got it going through your last (inaudible)?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, it's what I've always dreamed about doing.   I mean, that's part of the challenge is to get up every week.   It's hard sometimes with the traveling.   There's distractions, there's stuff that‑‑ it's not like when my mom and I would just get in the car and go to a junior golf tournament.   I'd be so ready to get out of the car that I couldn't help but play golf and stay out there a little longer.   So now I'm married and I've got a great wife, and it's good being home.   Sometimes it is tough, but I do love what I do.   I love the work.   I love playing, and I love the competition.   
   
 Q.   You told us after becoming a champion things were different.   Can you talk about that?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, you know, it's one of those things where you finally feel like you belong.   You start getting into the tournaments a little bit earlier, if that makes any sense.   You feel like you're more a part of the tournament sometimes.   Your first year on TOUR you've got these tee times where you're like last off, and then the next year after you keep your card you're first off, so you're not really in with the crowd and all that kind of stuff, so it's definitely an adjustment, but it's a very good adjustment.   Very positive.   
It was a big deal for me.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, yeah, a lot of memories coming back.   I remember ‑‑ Zach and I are dear friends.   He lives on St.Simons.   We did a little Q&A last year at a course that we're members of, Ocean Forest down on St.Simons.   Someone asked him if he knows something, something, something about a certain golf tournament.   He goes, well, there was a tournament last year where I played unbelievable, and I shoot whatever, and I thought there was no way I was going to‑‑ no way I wasn't going to win this golf tournament, and he won.   Zach is a very gracious gentleman, and I'm glad to call him a friend.   We talk about golf, and he's given me a lot of great advice.   So to be able to hold him off out here was a real confidence booster.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, that last hole sure played pretty hard last year.   I had a 6‑iron in over water trying to hang onto a two‑shot lead.   I don't necessarily equate low golf scores to somehow or another the golf course being easy, it's just that the guys are good.   The guys are hitting it 300‑some odd yards and hitting it really straight and making the putt.   I don't get where that's a bad thing.   That's fun to watch.   That's one of the great things about Augusta is the back nine roars.   They're not roaring because a guy made a 20‑footer for bogey.   They're making eagles and birdies, and that's what's so exciting about this place.   I personally wish golf would be a little bit more like that sometimes.   
   
 Q.   What was it about your college program that prepared you to come out here and play as well as you have?  
BRIAN HARMAN:   If you ask Chris Haack, he'll say it was his extensive coaching.   But I honestly think that it's in the South, so we've got great weather.   And Kevin Kisner, who's been very close this year, and he will win eventually, he was kind of the first guy‑‑ he was a South Carolina guy and he came to Georgia, and I was friends with Kevin, Chris Kirk was friends with Kevin, Brendon Todd was friends with Kevin, and then after those guys it was Hudson Swafford, Harris English, we were all friends.   I was kind of the middle guy in all this.   So Kevin goes there and Kirk decides to go there, then Brandon decides to go there.   I'm like, well, I'm going to go play with all my buddies.   It could have just as easily been anywhere else.   We were friends.   We grew up playing junior golf together.   We all wanted to play golf together, and it just happened to be the University of Georgia, so it worked out.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRIAN HARMAN:   I think probably the best advice, I asked him after‑‑ I watched him win this golf tournament.   He shot 6‑under.   I'll never forget it because I was hitting it so well, it was my rookie year, and I'm hitting it 10 or 15 yards by him, but he just wiped the floor with me, and was just making putts.   I asked him, I said, Zach, what do I need to do to kind of move up to the next level.   He goes, well, you just didn't quite looked like you belonged.   You were kind of being respectful and trying to get out of my way.   That's not your responsibility.   Your responsibility is to play your game and not worry about anyone else.   I felt like you were kind of letting the moment take care of you and you not trying to put your foot down.   That was pretty interesting, nice of him to say that.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Steve Stricker.)  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Old Strick, he's a beauty.   I played a practice round with him a couple weeks later at the PGA, and I've played with him a pretty good amount of times.   He hasn't really given me any advice.   He's a great champion.   He's one heck of a golfer, I know that.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRIAN HARMAN:   I mean, I'm not surprised at that at all.   You look at the caliber of player that's won this golf tournament over the years, and it's a good test of golf.   It takes really good golf to win here.   The weather is always good, so you've always got low scores, so the guys have got to play well, so I'm not surprised that you've had some really great champions here.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Looks like he makes a lot of putts.   He's got a hot putter.   He's on a heater, man.   He's great for the game.   He's extremely popular.   And he makes every putt he looks at.   That's part of it, man.   But he's a great guy, he really is.   He's a lot of fun to play with, and he's great for the game because he cares about this TOUR.   He's not out chasing a bunch of appearance fees all over the world.   He cares about this TOUR.   He wants to play this TOUR, and I think that's great, especially for the youth in American golf.   It's like, I think it's a great example to set.   You win a tournament or you like a tournament, you keep playing, you don't go chasing all these different stuff around everywhere.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Yeah, he's on a heater, man.   He's killing it.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRIAN HARMAN:   I think we have an obligation to this TOUR.   This TOUR gives us a platform to perform for a lot of money.   There's no getting around it.   The opportunities they present to us and what we can do‑‑ what we do for the communities.   You mentioned all the money that goes to charity, and for every top player that plays in a tournament in the United States, it's a big deal.   It's a big deal for the community.   I think that's really important.   
   
 Q.   We're just a couple weeks away from the U.S. Open.   What's your preparation for majors?   
BRIAN HARMAN:   Well, I haven't practiced any downhill tee shots, which I hear are over there.   Somebody is really going to like it.   I know that.   I mean, it's an Open Championship.   It's going to be hard.   It's always hard.   They set it up hard.   I guess trying to make a lot of pars somewhere would be the best way I could prepare for it.   It's just golf, man.   You try to hit as many fairways as you can, you try to hit it on the green.   A guy with a really good short game usually has a really good chance because you just can't hit enough greens to really run away with it most times.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRIAN HARMAN:   The British Open is a really cool golf tournament.   I had so much fun over there last year.   I was actually still riding high from this week.   I had one too many beers when I was there.   Yeah, I'm looking forward to definitely being back in the British Open.   It's really fun.   That's a great perk to this golf tournament, getting over there.   It's so hard to get over there without it that it's a no‑brainer.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRIAN HARMAN:   Coach Haack?   Only if I need a ride to the golf course or something.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible.)  
BRIAN HARMAN:   It was such a blur last year because obviously I was just on cloud nine, finishing that golf tournament off the way I did, that I've got little pieces of it, and I can remember coming up here and the big party that was going on, just rushing trying to get everything situated to get on the plane.   It was just a great end to a great week for me.   It was really, really special.   
CLAIR PETERSON:   We have to, as you know, give everyone the opportunity to do their one‑on‑ones with Brian.   We don't want to cut that short, but we do need to get him heading back to Chicago by 11:30 at the latest.   How about a round of applause for Brian Harman.   
(Applause.)  
Barry, I think, kind of usually organizes the one‑on‑ones, and thanks in advance, and I'll see you after you play golf, I guess.   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT