BALLANTINE'S CHAMPIONSHIP
April 22, 2009
Noh Seung-Yul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   NOH SEUNG-YUL: First, I would like to thank you for inviting me to this press conference. I know that this is a big tournament and you have many world-renowned athletes here besides me. We are having this tournament here in Korea, and of course I would like to win this tournament. But even if it is not me, I think I would enjoy it if another Korean athlete won this tournament.   
 When you take part in these tournaments abroad, the practice conditions are better than in Korea, so I was able to study and practice diverse shots, and busy was able to see these world-renowned athletes, I was able to learn from them, and so I think during the past year, my game has improved a lot.   
  
  Q. Last week you received some lessons, although you do play overseas, I know you come back to Mr. Myung-Ho Choi from Pineridge and you check your swing with him. So I would like to know how often you have these private lessons, and I would like to know how the lessons that you have received will affect your game at this tournament.   
 NOH SEUNG-YUL: First of all, I have worked with Mr. Myung-ho for about seven to eight years, and I think we work very well together, and that is why I have come to where I am right now.   
 Last week the lessons I had with him was not because I wanted to learn something new. It wasn't learning something. It was more like going back and checking the basics of golf, which I think is very important, so looking to see if I'm making any mistakes. And it was about going to the basics of golf for me.   
  
  Q. Last year was a real breakthrough year for you. What are your that are gets for this year? How do you build on last year's success?   
 NOH SEUNG-YUL: So I think last year was a year of growth, and I would like to continue to grow, and also show a better performance at the games. And of course, winning is very important. But for me, I would like to have the opportunity to get some good results and also create a foundation for me to play tournaments in the United States.   
  
  Q. So do you have maybe a chance or an opportunity in the near future to take part in the PGA TOUR through a sponsor?  
 NOH SEUNG-YUL: First of all, I have only made one round with him together and so we have not had a lot of chance to talk.   
 Last year I think I wanted to try the U.S. Qualifying School, and I also wanted to try the Singapore tournament and win, so one of the advice that he gave me was not to go after two goals at the same time. In other words, don't run after two rabbits at the same time. He said it's better to give one up and focus on just one.   
 But last year I wanted to really achieve both of these two goals, the U.S. Qualifying School, and the Singapore tournament. But unfortunately, I was not able to grab or catch these two rabbits, or these two goals.   
 But this year, I really would like to play in the United States, and that is what I plan to do.   
  
  Q. So last year you played really well and I think in magazines like Golf Week, you were compared to athletes who were about the same age as you. I think one of them could be Danny Lee. So as you read these articles, what do you think?   
 NOH SEUNG-YUL: First of all, with Danny Lee, I have practiced with him since third and fourth grade of elementary school, so I know them very well. So I think when they compare me to him, I don't think I want to beat him. We are very close. What I wish is for us to grow together.  
 With athletes like Mishka (ph), I have played with him in games since junior high school, and so from the amateur tournaments, I have come to know him quite well. So more than competition, he is like a friend for me in these pro tournaments.   
  
  Q. Your father has obviously been travelling with you all over the world, carrying your bags for you, can you just describe your relationship, father and son relationship?   
 NOH SEUNG-YUL: I don't think there's anything particularly special. I mean, all Korean parents are very devoted to their children, and so I think that's why he travels with me, he care he's my bags and he works hard for me. I think because of him, I've come this far.   
  
  Q. You talked about the US PGA TOUR. So is your priority to qualify for that and actually make that your main aim over the next few years?   
 NOH SEUNG-YUL: So, of course, I would like to qualify as soon as possible, and if I had it my way, I would like to actually play in the US PGA TOUR this year and qualify this year so I can grow next year.   
 And I am really working hard to prepare to qualify for the US PGA, and if I don't qualify this year, I would like to qualify as soon as possible, and for me, I think within the next three years, is my goal.   
  
  Q. So you've done very well on the Asian Tour and I think because you've done so well at a very young age, there is a lot of spotlight focused on you, and I think the Asian Tour has also done lots to focus on and you to promote you as an athlete. I wonder if this sometimes might be a burden to you.   
 NOH SEUNG-YUL: Especially with the Asian Tour, they have allowed me to pair up with world-renowned athletes and have given me a lot of opportunities to play the golf game with these world renowned athletes. So rather than a pressure or a burden, I think it provides me with opportunities to learn more and to grow more, and I think the Asian Tour has given me a lot of these opportunities.   
  
  Q. So the PGA TOUR, it's a very big tournament and it's being held here in Korea, and so I'm sure that's a lot on your shoulders; and so I would like to know how you control your mind during these tournaments or during these games.   
 NOH SEUNG-YUL: So I think because The European Tour event is being held here in Korea, I want to achieve the best possible result that I can achieve.  
 It's being held here in Korea, so compared to other places, I have a lot of people saying around me, so, you should win. But because there are so many renowned athletes taking part in this tournament, I know it's going to be difficult. So I don't really feel the pressure. When you are an amateur, you don't have that many tournaments that you can take part in, so there is a lot of pressure for each game.  
 But ever since taking part in these pro games, I have to take part in a tournament every week, and so I'm less nervous, I'm more relaxed, and I tend to enjoy the tournament more because I know there's another tournament waiting for me next week.   
 CALVIN KOH: Thank you for coming down and good luck this week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT