SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 14, 2021
Jim Herman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. First and foremost, how are you coping?
JIM HERMAN:   I feel pretty good.  Obviously the low score today helps you feel a little bit better.  Didn't know what to expect coming out this week.  I had plenty of symptoms.  I tested positive -- I tested on the 28th and it was pretty miserable for about four days.  My wife had it and luckily enough the rest of the house didn't get it.  But it wasn't very pleasant.
Q. What were the symptoms and are they still lingering?
JIM HERMAN:   No.  Well, well, taste and smell are still a struggle to get back.  That's been less than enjoyable, eating some nice food and not really having anything there.  It felt like a severe flu.  Had some lung inflammation that was pressing on my back and caused discomfort for any position you would try to sit and relax.
Q. What did you do well today, coming out here, as you mentioned, not many expectations?
JIM HERMAN:   Drove it well.  Iron game well and made some putts.  With me it always starts with the driver.  I feel very comfortable approaching pretty much any hole location if I'm coming out of the fairway.  Iron game was good.  I don't know if I missed more than one green.  New irons in the bag this week.  It was, I'd say, a success.
Q. Did you watch last week and how tough was it not to be there considering you earned your way there and it was a no-cut, guaranteed-money event?
JIM HERMAN:   I didn't watch, actually.  We were pretty busy with a lot going on at the house and trying to get a little bit back to normal, trying to recover from the COVID.  I mean, it was on but I didn't really sit down and pay much attention to it.
You know, it was a little painful not being there, but it is what it is, and you know, a lot of people have gone through a lot more, a lot more than I have with COVID.  To miss a golf tournament, it's not the end of the world but definitely motivated to get back there this year.
Q. How did it impact preparation?
JIM HERMAN:   Pretty much about 11, 12 days without touching a club.  You're there in the office and you try to putt around, but not much preparation coming in.  I had just, let's say, Friday and Saturday, I was able to, I was released from quarantine and I was able to just hit some balls.  I didn't play many more than just a casual round.
It was -- I really didn't know what to expect obviously.  It's just great to get back out.
Q. I wanted to ask you about the birdie on 11.  I know you've been out here for a while since June.  That was a really nice putt, the quietest nice putt I've ever seen in my life.  Does it still get to you?
JIM HERMAN:   It does.  Yeah, just not having the grandstands and the gallery, you miss the applause.  You like the instant gratification from an iron shot in, and then obviously making the putts.  So we miss them.  We miss the fans.  Hopefully it's coming.  We miss the fans for sure.
It was a longer putt, and just it was tracking.  I was like, why move, so let's just watch this go in and you get that rush of adrenaline and then you are waiting for a little applause and then you've got nothing there.
Q. Should you take it to the PAC that on certain tournaments there should be a COVID exemption to next year or do you still have to win?
JIM HERMAN:   That wouldn't be a bad idea.  They pay you last place money but it's not the same, obviously.  You feel like you could have done better than last place.
Yeah, I don't know.  Missing a major, I mean, that's -- missing THE PLAYERS with COVID or missing Kapalua.
Q. Would you have been more gutted to test positive before Kapalua or five days before Augusta?
JIM HERMAN:   Five days before Augusta.  I mean, I've been to Kapalua twice.  Played two times.  I've had one experience at Augusta.  Really looking forward to this April.  You know, I know we're going to have limited, very limited fans, but I'm just glad we're going to be able to play the tournament.
Yeah, that would be -- my 90-day without testing I think runs out the week or two before Augusta.
Q. You timed this badly.
JIM HERMAN:   Yeah, I need to stay on the straight and narrow going into that those couple weeks.
Q. Also, have to ask you about the other thing last week, given your long association as an assistant pro, etc., any thoughts on that?
JIM HERMAN:   You know, been concentrating on the golf for myself, but yeah, very disappointed that the PGA is not going to be at Bedminster.  They have got a lot of great people there and great staff, and I have a history there.  Not many times do you get to play a course and a major that you have a built-in advantage, so yeah, very disappointed.  It is what it is.
Q. What do you have coming up?
JIM HERMAN:   Play next week at American Express and then nothing planned after that.  Just see how -- I was just going to see how these two weeks went.  So far, so good.  I'm not a big West Coast guy.  I like the East Coast, the northeast.
Q. Is that the bermuda thing?
JIM HERMAN:   The bermuda thing for sure.  I haven't done much in the desert.  Not much on the West Coast.  We'll just play it by ear and go from there.
Q. Would you be tempted at all to go to Pebble, given its beauty, knowing the rounds might be a little shorter than six hours this year?
JIM HERMAN:   I've played Pebble I think every year I've been eligible, I believe I have.  I mean, barring something crazy in my schedule, I would imagine I'll be there.
Q. Do you enjoy the Pro-Am aspect?
JIM HERMAN:   I do.  I enjoy the Pro-Ams.  You meet so many great people.  Monday Pro-Ams, Wednesday Pro-Ams, the Pro-Am formats that we have in the tournaments, I enjoy them.  I've played most of them.  You meet so many great people.
Q. Who is your most memorable at Pebble?
JIM HERMAN:   Most memorable partner?  I've had a lot of good partners.  Last year was a great experience meeting Philippe Laffont, great guy.  We stay in touch.  I've had plenty of great guys, Jim Tullis, played the Seminole Pro-Member with him.  I meet so many great people.  So many great people in the game of golf.  It's a great thing to have.  We need different formats throughout year.  So look forward to having that back next year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT