SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2016
Jim Herman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jim, congratulations, man.  Your back-9, 10-under par, only one bogey all week.  I think that's where it was done, really.
JIM HERMAN: This is such a challenging golf course on the finishing holes and some of those ones on the first stretch, 11, obviously is challenging hole.  That was a great birdie for me.  That really helped get me, you know, back tied, I think, and got to hit good tee shots coming down the stretch.  Able to get those on the fairway in 17, and obviously on 18 I really, really hit a good drive, I was able to hit a 9-iron in.  Much different than some of the other clubs I've had earlier in the week, 4s and hybrids, actually.  Yeah, it's all done.
Q. Inside going to turning a little bit.  Six minutes I timed you had to wait at the 18th hole.
JIM HERMAN: Didn't really want to wait there.  It is what it is.  It's never easy getting it done, but can't say anything that we didn't handle it really well.  My caddy Matt and I, we had a game plan and stuck to it and executed really well today.
Q. You got a pretty cool invitation to a party next week.  Are you going to be able to clear your calendar?
JIM HERMAN: I think so.  Nice to go.  This last ticket to Augusta, but got to be nice to win after Augusta so you can go there and practice all year.  You think about it.  I don't know.  Packing up and heading right to Augusta, it's going to be a whirlwind the next four days.
Q. Take it from a guy who has been, there that drive down Magnolia Lane is pretty special.  Congratulations.
JIM HERMAN: Thank you.
Q. Tied at the top in the final pairing attempting to win for the first time ever on the PGA TOUR.  What were the emotions like as the World Class players trying to chase you down?
JIM HERMAN: I had a pretty good game plan, my caddy Matt and I.  We were looking to keep ourselves free.  It's hard to do that out here.  There's a lot of hazards.  I don't know.  I don't know how we did it.  It's over, but it still hasn't sunk in.  I knew it wasn't going to be easy.  I got a lot of texts and e-mails and tweets last night about this is your tournament to win, but there were so many great players out there and 18, anything can happen in 18 holes.  Just very proud of myself the way I hung in there and I was able to make some putts coming down the stretch, and obviously that chip-in on 16 really turned things around for me.
Q. I asked you yesterday what past success you would look on and take into to get to this day.  What helped you get through this day?
JIM HERMAN: I've had a lot of support.  I'm not doing this alone anymore.  I've got someone else helping me with the mental side and short game and putt, for example.  I got a great guy on my bag.  I got the best support group, my wife and kids and my parents and her parents and all the members at the clubs that I've worked at.  You know, it's just amazing it's all come to this.
Q. It's been a journey to get here.  What does it finally mean to win on the PGA TOUR?
JIM HERMAN: I knew I belong.  I knew I belong out here, but to call yourself a PGA TOUR winner is pretty special.
Q. With that PGA TOUR victory, a trip to Augusta, what were your plans before for next week that have now changed?
JIM HERMAN: They've obviously changed.  I got a flight at 8:42 to Fort Lauderdale tonight.  I don't know if that's going to happen.  I'm assuming we'll be heading to Augusta and hopefully we can get the arrangements, get my family up there and we're going to have a great week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT