THE RSM CLASSIC
November 19, 2015
Jim Herman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Let's talk about a fantastic finish there.  Chip-in for eagle.
JIM HERMAN: Yeah, what a way to end.  Had a good back nine going.  I think I was 4-under on the back, and then a little three to finish on the Par-5, 6-under 30.
Q. Looked like it came out a little bit hot.  Good thing it hit the flag, right?
JIM HERMAN: Yeah, we don't have to tell anyone that.
Yeah, hit the flag, went down.  Probably would've had ten feet for birdie.  Don't have to go back and hit it again so glad it went down.
Q. Was it kind of a tale of two different days weather-wise out there on the Plantation course, because sometimes the wind was a factor and then other times it calmed right down.
JIM HERMAN: Certainly.  This morning very calm on the front.  Needed to get going.  Just was playing okay.  Nothing really special.  Then made the turn; hit some good shots in the wind and then made a few putts.
That was the only thing on the back 9, I started rolling the ball better and I got the ball to the hole.  That was the biggest thing on the back nine.  See if we can keep doing that tomorrow.
Q. New challenge tomorrow, a different golf course, the Sea Side course.  What challenges does that pose?
JIM HERMAN: Sure, obviously the weather and the wind would be -- you would be more exposed on the Sea Side.  See if you can control your distances into the greens, and then if you get in trouble just take your medicine and move on.
Q. Well you gave the course medicine there to finish.  Congratulations on a great opening round.
JIM HERMAN: Thank you so much.
Q. How is the fall?  How have you been in the fall events so far this year?  Reaching the goals that you wanted?
JIM HERMAN: Yeah, I mean, obviously everyone wants to win.  Just was looking to get off to a good start this fall.  Had a good top 10 in Malaysia and 17th last week in Mexico.
Definitely some good momentum coming into this week.  Looking forward to the season being over, but there is plenty of time to rest the next five weeks.  So just have three more good days here.
Q. With your finish last year in the FedEx, how important is the fall and how much emphasis did you put on this fall?
JIM HERMAN: Well, a lot.  Obviously I'm not coming out of the Web category like I have every other year.  Very pleased to not be in the reshuffle.  That being said, you don't want to start with four or five missed cuts.
Puts a little bit more pressure on you in the west coast.  So this has just been really good for me.  Going to try to keep it going this week or tomorrow and hopefully this weekend and then put them down for a while.
Q. That was my next question:  How long are you going to put them down going into I guess Sony would be your next event?
JIM HERMAN: Yeah, look for a couple weeks.  You know, I know we're going to be right into Thanksgiving, and then I had a little trip to Cincinnati planned the following week.  Go home and see some family.  It'll be two weeks for sure no golf, and then maybe get back at it.
Start seeing my teacher, Bill Davis.  Just start ramping up for the start of the year in January.
Yeah, definitely two weeks at least.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT