ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 26, 2015
Jim Herman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The last two days basically.   We were just talking saying Honda was about the same way.   How are you feeling right now?  
    JIM HERMAN:   Feeling really good.   You know, I don't know what it is about delays, but maybe we need some more.   I played really well at Honda through all that delay, and just in and out, in and out, and just seemed to keep it together.  
   
 Q.   You only had 265 yards for your second shot on 18, and you elected to lay up there.   Kind of an uncomfortable number for you?   Did you know where you were at in the standings going into 18?  
    JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   I did peak at the board on 18, and I thought the best way I was going to make birdie was to lay up.   I had a similar number on 7 and hit a great 3‑wood.   It landed right by the hole and rolled off, and I had to get up‑and‑down.   
    I'm better with hitting greens with a full wedge than I am pitching and chipping.   So that was my goal coming into the Back 9 was to hit nine greens and nine fairways, and I don't know if I did, but it seemed like I did.  
   
 Q.   It was a heck of a round of golf.   You got a long time between now and when the leaders are coming in.   What's your plan for the next couple of hours while you wait this thing out?  
    JIM HERMAN:   I don't know.   Never been in this position.   It's all new to me.   My best finish was T7 at Honda this year.   So I was just building off of that.   It was nice to finish this off.   It's a lot of pressure for guys like me that haven't been in this position.   So new experience and very, very proud of myself.  
   
 Q.   Well, as you should be.   Go cool off, have some food and hopefully we'll see you later on.   
    JIM HERMAN:   Thanks.  
   
 Q.   Jim, what a round, bogey free, that 65.   That was a fun 24 hours.   Great with that swing.   
    JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   Drove‑‑ just everything was pretty good.   Drove the ball well, irons really good.   Put some new irons, new RSi TP irons, TaylorMade this week.   First tournament round with them.   So they were really good.   
    I've been hitting my irons really well all year, ball striking has been really good.   But maybe the little water solo helps with the weather conditions.  
   
 Q.   Your caddy said he could feel this coming.   You're on route to your best finish of the season so far.   What have you felt coming to this point?  
    JIM HERMAN:   The ball striking, driving‑‑ driving and my iron game, just giving myself a lot of opportunities.   Really been working hard on my short game.   It's a work in progress.   My putting was really good this week, working really hard with my instructor, Bill Davis from Jupiter Hills, and then we just started some Aimpoint this week.   I took a little lesson last week from Billy Orr at the PGA village on Aimpoint, and Matt, my caddy, Matt, is a proponent of that, and we just went with it.   And you know, there wasn't much guessing.   We just went with the percentages and went with the lines.  
   
 Q.   How do you approach a day like today?   You're out so far in advance because we're not re‑pairing.   You know it's going to have to take something to go low.   It's kind of a strange feeling to be out there, like let's see what we can do and put a number up there; right?  
    JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   I didn't really watch the leaderboards because there's no reason to.   You know, you're so far ahead, you just want to post as low as you can.   There's no reason to protect.   So you know, you gotta post something and see where it stands at the end of the day.   
    I don't know.   Maybe 36‑hole rounds are pretty good for me.   I only had‑‑ I don't know what I had today.   26 holes or something like that.   But I've qualified for three Opens.   The multi‑round days, maybe there's something to it.  
   
 Q.   Well, you were hot today.   Go cool off a little bit.   Bogey‑free, final round.   Shot a 65.   What was working for you today?  
    JIM HERMAN:   A little bit of everything.   Drove the ball really well.   Iron game was spot on.   Wedge game was good.   Really putted well today.   I've been close most of the week, but most of the reads were good.   We did a really good job with some Aimpoint, practiced this week, my caddy Matt and I, and been working really hard on the stroke back home.   And just put it all together.  
   
 Q.   Put an exclamation there on the round with a birdie at 18.   What's it like to finish strong?  
    JIM HERMAN:   Yeah, closing on 17 you just want to hit the green there and see if you can sneak one in for birdie.   Yeah, 18, the tees are up, accessible hole location.   I laid up.   I had 265, and I just thought it was‑‑ you know, I was going to make 5 or 4.   I wasn't going to do anything stupid and put one in the hazard.  
   
 Q.   Mother Nature has made it hard.   I think almost nine and a half hours of delays.   How have you managed to stay focused?  
    JIM HERMAN:   Cellphone, you know.   It's easy to play some games.   Called the wife, my wife Caroline, got the two kids at home.   Get some Facetime.   You know, they distracted pretty well.  
   
 Q.   I heard you say you've never been in this situation before.   What's it going to be like sitting around waiting to see if that 19‑under is going to hold up?  
    JIM HERMAN:   Sure.   Yeah, I had the first‑round lead at the Honda.   I ended up finishing seventh.   It was a good week.   Yeah, I've never been in the clubhouse lead, T2 right now maybe.   It's a great feeling.   I'm not going to worry about it.   If I end up winning or a playoff or I lose, you know, it's all done.   So glad it's over, and you know, glad I was able to put together a really good round, 7‑under.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT