FRYS.COM OPEN
October 11, 2013
Jim Herman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Really nice number.   Another nice number compared to yesterday as well.   How do you feel after this round heading into the weekend now?
JIM HERMAN:   I feel good.   Game feels good.   It's nice to come out with good greens, no wind, and put up a good score.
Had a couple good chances coming down the stretch to get a little deeper, but 5‑under is good.

Q.   Coming off the Web.com Tour finals and playing here, how much of a benefit, if at all, is it to bring some of that momentum on to the PGA TOUR?
JIM HERMAN:   Yeah, certainly.   We had a long five weeks, four tournaments in five weeks, and the pressure to get back out here.
But it was actually a benefit of staying sharp and just get right back at it.   As of last couple years, taking that break and maybe not getting ready and being as prepared for the west coast.

Q.   Well played out there.   Bogey on the sixth, but solid going. 
JIM HERMAN:   Yeah, thanks.   6 hole was challenging fairway‑bunker shot.   Just pulled it a little bit.   Didn't have too hard of a shot, but just left it a little short. 
Yeah, overall, really good.

Q.   Of course this is the first event of this season.   Last season you had to go through the Web.Com Tour final event.   Does that help?
JIM HERMAN:   Oh, it did.   You're ready to go.   One week off and right back at it compared to past years where you get a little rusty maybe and make some equipment changes, things like that, and you come out and you're not really ready to go in Hawaii or the west coast.
I don't know if that's what the case was for me the past couple years, but it's nice to get off to a good start.

Q.   What's been the key to your play this week?
JIM HERMAN:   Driving and putting it well.   My caddie, Matt, and I are really reading the greens well.   I will just saw he's reading the greens well and I'm hitting it where he's looking.   Putting is really well.

Q.   What's your plan for the rest of the day?
JIM HERMAN:   Just about 10 minutes of practice and then have lunch and maybe catch a movie. 

Q.   You had a good end to the tour season before the Web.com Tour finals, didn't you?
JIM HERMAN:   Yeah, I finished 139.   I missed like 10 of 12 cuts to start the year and then had two top 10s, or 11.   I think I missed one cut over the last ten events, so... 

Q.   What was the difference?
JIM HERMAN:   Putting.   Made a little putter change and a caddie changes.   My caddie really reads the greens well.   I let him run with it and hit it where he tells me, and that's it.   I either hit the right speed or he's a little off on his read.
Yeah, it was a good end of the year last year.   The finals, I really didn't want to go to the finals.   I was close at Greensboro.   I finished 11th.   I needed top 5 to keep my card.
But I knew two of the courses for the finals, and really secured my spot in Columbus.   Got seventh place there. 

Q.   What did do you do last week? 
JIM HERMAN:   Nothing. 

Q.   That was your off season?
JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   I had a birthday party for my daughter on Saturday, and then I played 18 holes of casual golf with some members got on the plane Monday morning.   Or Monday afternoon. 

Q.   Would you have played here before?
JIM HERMAN:   I played two years ago.   It was a fall finish of 2010, '11 maybe.   Been a couple years. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT