NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2013
Jim Herman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   (Inaudible). 
JIM HERMAN:   Just caught a flier off the first hole went in the rough, knocked it over the green, didn't get up‑and‑down, so not the best start with a bogey, but came right back with a really good 6‑iron to 15, 20 feet on 2 and made a good putt there, so that was nice to just bounce right back and get it back to even on the day. 
Good look on 3, didn't make it and then hit one real close on 4, nice par‑5, laid up and I hit a sand wedge into about two feet.   So nice birdie there.   Missed another short one on the par‑3, could have really got something going there.   Hit a great 5‑iron to five, six feet and I had a tricky putt and did not make it.
Good birdie on 7, really good birdie.   Made about 20‑foot downhill breaking putt.   So that was a really good putt there. 
And pars on 8 and 9, I believe.   10, just missed a great putt on 10, but still a good par.   What were the birdies, John? 

Q.   13, par‑5?
JIM HERMAN:   12, yeah, hit a hybrid into the greenside bunker and hit a great bunker shot.   Thought I made the eagle, but went about five, six feet by and had a tricky putt but was able to get that in.
Just had a perfect number on 13, 180 downhill, just a 7‑iron, wind was perfect for me and hit that in to three feet and made the putt.   So that was a really, really good hole.
Couple of good shots on 14 and 15 that just were a little off but still made some pars.   Same way on 16, just a little short.   Just thought I hit it really close but ended up missing the green just by a yard and then made a great save on 17.   I was in the green side bunker and had about a 20 ‑‑ 15‑footer, 20 feet maybe downhill and really made a good save.   That was a really good putt to save the par there on 17. 
And then could have got the putt to the hole on 18, but nice to have a tap‑in for 67.

Q.   Where were you at mentally after yesterday?
JIM HERMAN:   Yeah, I was fine.   A little disappointed. 

Q.   Any errors out there or what?
JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   A little bit sloppy of the tee, got in some bad spots and you can't play from the trees too much out here.   So just ‑‑ No. 3, No. 3 made the turn.   No. 3 was terrible.   Just drove it in the trees, punched it out in front of the green and didn't get up‑and‑down.   And just at the end of the day had a good number on 9, hit it 20 feet past the hole and three‑putted it.   So that just added to kind of a poor day with a 3‑putt on the last.   So you just gotta forget about it.   It was a windy day and everyone kind of struggled.   But you know, you would like to keep it around par when you have a bad day.   But four over, you forget about it and move on.

Q.   Being in the position you were still after yesterday and with chances dwindling as you get down to the end of this series, I think you're 48, are you starting to think more about it or are you just still playing golf?
JIM HERMAN:   Just play golf and let the results take care of itself.   I know if I have a good week here, it'll take care of things.   So can't worry about it, especially tomorrow.   You don't want to get ahead of yourself, but just go play a good solid round and see what happens.   That's all you can do.

Q.   Obviously you don't want to start with a bogey but can that be kind of a snap you to attention type thing?
JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   It can go both ways there, you know, especially with a couple of hard holes following No. 1, you know.   If you start with a bogey and then somehow make another one on 2, you kind of get really going the wrong way.
But yeah, if you get right back like I did on 2, it really gets you going, the momentum just going the right direction, whereas if you just made a couple of pars, might just get a little stale.   But it's nice to come back with a birdie after you make a bogey any time.

Q.   Have you played much with Noh?
JIM HERMAN:   I have not.   No.   I've never played with him.

Q.   Didn't know anything about him?
JIM HERMAN:   No.   Not a thing.   Sure he's a great player.   He's a great player, so it'll be fun.   I don't even know if I'll be with him. 

Q.   Just out of curiosity, how many golfers are sponsored by Trump?
JIM HERMAN:   I've had a nice unique relationship with Mr.Trump.   I went to work for him in 2006.   I was assistant professional for him for two years and qualified for the Web.com my second season after working for him.   And he's been a supporter of mine, a sponsor of mine.   And I don't know if he has anyone else, but ‑‑ David Frost on the Champions Tour, yeah.   Rocco for a little bit, I think. 
But yeah, it's nice having someone like that on your shirt.   You get a lot of attention, people ask about it.   And he couldn't have been more helpful to me.   So he's a great man, and ‑‑

Q.   Where did you go to work for him?
JIM HERMAN:   In New Jersey.

Q.   Oh, New Jersey?
JIM HERMAN:   Yeah, Bedminster, New Jersey.   A job opened up there.   A friend of mine was the head professional and got an interview for the job and ended up taking it.   So that was a way, you know, up in the northeast for a couple of years, still kept my Florida home and all that, but I went up and worked two seasons and still went to Q‑School, and like I said, that's when I got through to the Web.com I think in 2007.

Q.   See a lot of him around there in Bedminster?
JIM HERMAN:   Oh yeah, he's out all the time.   He loves playing golf.   He's a golfer.   He's a businessman, but he loves playing golf on the weekends.
Yeah, I see him in the summer.   I make my way up there around Memorial Day and Labor Day and then I see him a lot in the winter at Palm Beach.

Q.   You talked about if you just take care of your own business tomorrow everything will turn out great.   When you're in a position where you want to win a tournament, but you also want to wrap up your TOUR card, how do you play if you go into a final round, say like you've been leading by four most of the day.   So you seem pretty comfortable.   How do you approach your round since you've got two different objectives?
JIM HERMAN:   Sure.   Well, obviously if you're right there and you're neck and neck trying to win the tournament, you'll take care of the TOUR card.   But obviously you just play your game, see what happens.   You know, if you're right there at the ‑‑ coming into the back nine or somewhere in the back nine, yeah, you're going to try to win the golf tournament.   But you know, obviously these four tournaments you're just trying to get inside the top 50 ‑‑ actually, Top‑25.   There's already 25 cards out.   So you need at least one good finish.   43rds and 53rds don't cut it.   Just going to go out and just have some fun.   I play better when I'm having fun.

Q.   With the big picture on the line like that, are you maybe less apt to try to force, you got more to lose than there is to win?
JIM HERMAN:   Sure.   Obviously if someone had their card wrapped up already, they could probably play a little bit more aggressive.   I'm not going to play afraid or anything, but just going to play my game.   You know, start off at the tee, drive it in the fairway and that's when you can be aggressive and try to make some birdies, but if you're in the trees all day, you're not going to be able to go at any pins. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT