NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2013
Jim Herman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JIM HERMAN:   I birdied the par‑5.   Had a lay‑up, bad drive in the bunker and hit a great 6‑iron for third shot into.

Q.   How far was that?
    JIM HERMAN:   I think it was less than 10 feet and I made a great putt.   Hit a 9‑iron into No. 7 and had a ‑‑ probably had less than eight feet, made a good putt there. 
    Made a really bad putt on 9 and had to make about a 12‑foot come back putt for par.   So 9 was ‑‑ that was nice to finish off the nine holes.   Really just going to be a sloppy bogey and really saved it there.

Q.   Did you putt the first one?
    JIM HERMAN:   Yes.   I had a 30‑footer.   Wasn't a bad putt.   Just speed was off and just kept rolling and rolling right to the back of the green and I made it coming back.   So nice way to finish off the nine.   And then made the turn, hit an 8‑iron into 10, about five feet and made that.   Good par save on 11.   Couple pars the next few holes.   Made a good par on 14.   It was a tricky little five‑footer.   And then hit it close on 15, pretty close on 16 and then really close on 18.   So.

Q.   All of these look pretty close, ten feet, eight feet?
    JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   So good iron play today.   Good iron play.   Couldn't tell.   Had a little in between yardage and took more club just because of soft conditions, and I guess it worked out.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
    JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   We couldn't see anything.   Yeah, we heard a little reaction, so that was good.

Q.   I know you're from Cincinnati, so do you consider this a home game this week?
    JIM HERMAN:   Certainly.

Q.   Have you played here much?
    JIM HERMAN:   Certainly.   Won the high school championship here, state champs with Xavier High School.   I wasn't individual champ, but our team was victorious, that was in '95, the fall of '95.   Always had good memories here, and I've played the Web.com Nationwide Championship here four other years, I believe.   So very familiar with the golf course, love it up here.   And if I can't be in Cincinnati, it's not bad being in Columbus.   All the family can make their way up.   So I had about 12 to 15 family and friends out watching today.

Q.   Is it that put you in more of a comfort zone when you do have family and friends that come watch you?
    JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   It's definitely nice.   You're not showing off with them.   But a lot of times, almost every other week you're on the road and you're playing in front of strangers, and it's nice to see some familiar faces and give you the support that you need when you're either playing well or when you might be struggling.

Q.   Were they here today?
    JIM HERMAN:   Yes.   Yeah, my mother and my brother and a couple of cousins and other family friends.   My wife and daughter, unfortunately, are in Florida.   She started school last week.   So see them next week.

Q.   Just looking at your tournament sheet this year, you've had two seasons up until June you couldn't make a cut. 
    JIM HERMAN:   No.

Q.   And since then you've pretty much made it.   I think you've only missed once. 
    JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   The tale of two years.   You know, I had some negative momentum going, and you know, just couldn't get rid of it and actually came out to the Web.com event in Maryland, and that kind of turned my season around.   It was right before U. S. Open qualifying, and I finished 15th at the Maryland ‑‑ Mid Atlantic championship, and that kind of got everything going the right direction.   I qualified for the U. S. Open the following Monday and made the cut there.   Like you said, I've only missed one cut since that first part of June. 
    It's all momentum out here, so I know a couple of other guys that could tell you the same thing, maybe last week's champion, he's playing really well, and you know, when you're playing well, you want to capitalize.   So see if we can keep it going.

Q.   I saw on that sheet where you were steadily moving up to the money list and when you got to the end and didn't make 125, was it a disappointment or were you ready to come out of the field?
    JIM HERMAN:   It was definitely a disappointment.   I knew I played well enough to keep my card.   Even those Top 10s that I had could have been top 5s, but that would have definitely enough.   Wyndham was definitely a great week.   I know I needed to finish fourth or better.   I put myself in great shape and finished 11th.   But yeah, it would be nice to have the fall finish to be part of this year's TOUR season, but it is what it is.   I knew that going in and had a lot of positive momentum coming into these PLAYOFFS. 
    I played fair the first two tournaments, you know, made both cuts, but just didn't do anything on the weekends.

Q.   Was this year, was it your first on the PGA?
    JIM HERMAN:   Second.   Second year.

Q.   I was looking for possibly why things didn't go well for you early in the season.
    JIM HERMAN:   No.   No real answer.   You know, you just ‑‑

Q.   Like you said, got on a bogey train. 
    JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   Sometimes ‑‑ you know, you're ‑‑ sometimes things happen positively and sometimes when you're on a negative momentum, they just happen to ‑‑ you know, I missed a cut in New Orleans.   You know, I finished, made a great birdie on 18 and then another guy birdied 18 in the final group to switch the numbers.   So you know, just little things like that where when things are going good you end up making the cut because someone bogeys the hole or whatever.
    But yeah, this game is crazy, so you don't really want to dwell on the negatives, just keep dwelling on the positives.

Q.   Was there anything in particular when you played that Web.com event that got you turned around?   A little more confidence maybe?
    JIM HERMAN:   No.   I mean ‑‑ I had switched caddies a couple of weeks prior, and I actually went with a new guy for that Web.com event, and you know, just tried to take control of my game again, instead of having my caddy do everything.   And it was ‑‑ and then coming back out I had ‑‑ I started again with another caddy in Memphis and just had some since, so it's been going well.

Q.   As you look at your stats for the two halves, is there anything that you wish you would do better?
    JIM HERMAN:   Certainly.   My putting's been hands down the biggest difference.   I switched putters in Hartford, right after the U. S. Open.   Didn't putt too well those events, even though I made the cuts.   But Hartford switched to a TaylorMade Daddy Long Legs putter, and I've been using it since.   And really feel like I'm rolling the ball really well with that, see the ball going in really nicely. 

Q.   When you make a strong run to try to get into the PLAYOFFS and then fall short and then you gotta come back here, do you kind of have to regroup mentally before stepping out here?
    JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   You know, you don't want to just assume that you're going to get your card because you were close, you know, and obviously, you know, I've played well enough these past two weeks, but not well enough on the weekends to contend.   So it's not like it was a letdown after the season ended.   But you know, maybe it was just something I needed a little kick in the pants here, you know, two more events you better get going or you're just going to have your conditional status for next year.

Q.   Did you come into this week feeling a little bit more pressure than the previous two weeks?
    JIM HERMAN:   Well, I mean with two events, yeah.   There's always the finality it's either this week or next week, so don't leave it to next week.   So that's the way I'm going to look at it.

Q.   So you like this golf course. 
    JIM HERMAN:   Very much, yeah.   It's one of my favorites.

Q.   Why?
    JIM HERMAN:   Why? 

Q.   Yeah. 
    JIM HERMAN:   Gotta drive it well, you gotta play well.   Drive it well, you can get at some of the tucked pins, and I'm usually a pretty good driver of the golf ball.   Par is usually a good score and 7‑under is always really good.

Q.   Is this the best ever for you on this course?
    JIM HERMAN:   Yeah.   For sure.   Yeah, I don't think I've shot more than 4‑under probably. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT