PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2017
Jim Herman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JIM HERMAN: I drove the ball really well.  I think that's important out here.  Obviously the holes, there's quite a few holes that are 500 plus par 4s.  And you are going to have be coming in with an iron from the fairway.  I was able to do that for the most part.  I think I only missed one fairway with my driver on 16.  I was able to salvage a par there.   
I think I missed another fairway on No. 8 with a 3-wood.  Other than that I was playing from the fairway.  I think that's definitely an advantage and something I always work hard on is playing from the fairway.  I look to do more of the same with that.   
17, I hit a really solid 5-iron.  Came up one yard short, hitting the front bunker, came back, hit a pretty decent bunker shot.  Had about ten feet or so, just missed.   
And then really nice drive on 18.  Tugged my 7-iron slightly and just got a collection area off to the left and rolled up into some pretty thick rough.  I wasn't able to get up-and-down.  But 2-under in a major, I will take it.  Very solid.  Pretty happy.   
 Q.  Are the greens continuing to stay as firm?  
JIM HERMAN: They are definitely firm.  I think they've had that SubAir running since last week maybe.  If you can play from the fairway, you are able to get some spin on the ball and attack some hole locations.  If you are not playing from fairway, it's going to be difficult.  I'm sure we're going to get some rain at some point this week to soften them up a little bit.  I'm sure they will have them nice and quick all week.   
 Q.  How much different of a course is this than what you guys have played before?  
JIM HERMAN: Obviously they made a few changes to the routing.  1 and 4 and 5 and extended the green on 11.  Just seems like with the weather conditions from the earlier in the week, the longer holes are just playing pretty long.  They got the greens nice and firm for us.  They are putting beautifully.  They are perfect conditions to putt except they are really fast.  You have got a lot of undulation so you have got to be very careful.  It's like the Wells Fargo but just a little bit bigger stage for sure.   
 Q.  What is the longest club you had into a par-4?  
JIM HERMAN: Great question.  I drove the ball well today.  I feel like it might have been just a 5 iron or so.  I don't had a 4-iron into any.  I don't think I had a hybrid into any par-4s.  I was playing from the fairway almost all the time outside of 16.  I drove the ball really well and was able to keep mid-irons in my hands instead of some longer irons.   
 Q.  How does the win you had in Texas, how does that fuel self belief?  
JIM HERMAN: I feel like that's been a while ago now and I have got to get over that and move forward.  It's great to have a win under your belt.  You can always call yourself a PGA Tour winner.  I've had a pretty average season, you know, like 78 on the FedEx.  I played really well early and the summer has been kind of flat.   
Thought I was going to get in the British.  Looking forward to British and PGA and ended up being fourth alternate for the British.  Little disappointed there.   
I was ready to go this week.  I did not play last week.  I felt like I drove the ball really well in Canada.  Putted pretty decent there.  I was looking forward to this tournament.  I like it here in Charlotte.  Stay with a really good family.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
 Q.  How was your preparation coming into this tournament?  
JIM HERMAN: I had my coach Bill Davis, he came in Monday morning and we just got in some good training on the short game area and on the range but then we just got in a scenario work on the golf course, checking out how we were going to play from some of the rough spots in the fairway which thankfully I stayed out of and drove the ball really well.  Just how we attack some of these spots if you got out of position of the greens.  The rough is pretty thick there and then just a lot of lag putting.  These greens if you get out of the correct position, it's going to be a difficult putt.  On the 12th hole, I was up on the top shelf and I did everything I could to two-putt there and it was a challenging putt.   
 Q.  How do you feel about today overall?  
JIM HERMAN: Little disappointed with the finish.  I know it's a difficult finish.  I made a great save on 16 to save par there.  I didn't hit a bad shot on the two holes I made bogey, so I could feel good about.  I still did not get up-and-down on either.   
So I feel really confident.  I feel like I drove the ball really well.  I think that's a good weapon for me here.  Just hope that continues and play from the fairway.  Overall very happy.  Probably my best start in any major.  Don't have any starts, probably five or six start in majors.  So looking forward to getting back out there tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT