VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2017
Jim Herman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What was it like out there for you today after yesterday's 62?  
JIM HERMAN: Well, obviously I was just trying to hit the first fairway and that's a gettable par 5, and that didn't happen.  Got off to a little rocky start.  Had to make a 10-footer for par on maybe the easiest hole out here.   
So just you try to keep the same game plan, but it's just different obviously.  You sleep with the lead, and all the texts and e-mails and all that.  I was proud of myself for the even par; wasn't my best stuff in the middle of the back nine but I was playing really well.  I hit 11 straight pars but couldn't get one to fall or hit it close enough.   
 Q.  When you're going out there and you get a 62 and the next day you have 11 straight pars to begin the next day, is that a frustrating feeling for you inside, or are you trying to stay as patient as possible out there?  
JIM HERMAN: Well, if the golf course was as gettable as it was yesterday, or if I was playing in the morning, that would be different.  But it was a different golf course than I played yesterday morning.  Par, any time you make par, it's not like you're backing up.  So putting 11 straight together, yeah, I get a little frustrated.  Missed a couple that I feel like I could have made, but I didn't really hit it as close as I did yesterday.   
So lag putting was working, but just couldn't get any to fall.   
 Q.  Well played again.  The challenge coming off such a low number as you were posting that opening round 62; 71 today.  A fair reflection do you feel of how you played?  
JIM HERMAN: I would say so.  I should have been under par on the front nine.  Felt like I hit some quality shots but not as close as I was yesterday.  Couldn't get them to fall.  Hit a really good shot on 6, had a 6-, 7-footer.  Other than that putt, it was a solid nine holes and on to the back, a little more exciting.   
 Q.  12, beautiful approach in.  
JIM HERMAN: Yeah, very solid shot.  Hanging out just right of the hole.  A little fortunate there that it got up and on.  Good read and good quality stroke on that.   
 Q.  It's weird to think that you were a late commitment to this tournament; you were going to take a couple of weeks off.  We talked about it yesterday, that you live here in Florida but you weren't slated to play this week but in the end turns out to be a very good decision.  
JIM HERMAN: Yeah, a very good decision.  Just a long West Coast, the weather and I was looking forward; Honda was a long week, a lot of friends and family in town and I was just looking forward to two weeks off and heading into Bay Hill next week.  But just a little motivation from others in the Seminole Pro-Am and was a late commit, but glad I'm here.   
 Q.  A couple of the dropped shots there; how important was the birdie on 15?  And if you can, just a word on putting, because I understand you've been alternating between the cross-handed and the claw, back to the claw this week.  Certainly you've got the speed and the feels feeling good.  
JIM HERMAN: I've been with the claw the last few years and working with my coach, Bill Davis.  We were just trying other methods and we were cross-handed early part of this year, last event last year.  It felt really good.  My speed was better.  I always felt like my speed on longer putts was off with the ball.   
So just a little groove change on the putter I was using, and back to the claw this week, and that was at Seminole where I switched back after missing everything at Honda with cross-handed.  It was just a little motivation and actually putted really well at Seminole.  So was kind of looking forward to getting back out.   
 Q.  What's your key overriding thought, with the position you're in, as you now move into the weekend?  
JIM HERMAN: Just get a good night's sleep, try to hit that first fairway, and obviously it's important to get off to a good start.   
Just enjoy it.  Want to be happy out here.  We're all very privileged to be out on the PGA TOUR, but just go out and have some fun.   
 Q.  Super round today, considering you got off to such a great start in the first round.  Always difficult to follow a stellar round with another stellar round.  Talk about your emotions coming into today's round.  
JIM HERMAN: Yeah, very pleased with yesterday.  Just wanted to kind of forget about it, erase it and just get off to a good start today.  Not exactly how I envisioned the first hole.  Had to make about a 10-footer for par on the par 5.  But you know, really solid ball-striking and putting was good, long distance putting.  Just need to hit it a little bit closer and give myself some looks that are a little bit makeable.   
 Q.  You got it to 10-under after 12 holes.  Did you start to press a little bit and maybe start to think where you were in the golf tournament, made a couple bogeys?  
JIM HERMAN: No, I don't think it was that.  I think it was just I hit a really solid shot that went a little further than we thought on 13.  So just in a tough spot over the back.  Not the easiest pitch for me.  And I was able to make bogey there.   
And then 15, maybe just lost -- 14, lost my concentration for one minute; I had not made a bogey yet all tournament.  Let my guard down a little bit, just a routine driver on a par 5.  Just maybe fell asleep at the wheel there for a minute and blocked one.  Just was a long six shots on the 14th hole.   
 Q.  Tell us a little bit about how you came to be a late entry into this tournament and about the whole Seminole member-guest situation.  
JIM HERMAN: Yeah, it's getting a lot of traction.  Was planning on two weeks off, last week and this week, and then headed into Bay Hill next week.  But had a really solid week at Honda.  I just didn't make anything.  Went to the Seminole Pro-Am and made everything.  I switched putters and putter grips back to something I had success with last year and years prior.   
Just got a little motivation from Mr. Jack Welch.  He was riding along and watching us play the back nine, and he was every hole just telling me:  "You've got to go, you've got to go, you've got to go."   Late entry, and you know, I'm glad I'm here.   
 Q.  Was it just harder to make birdie today, or is that just the way it goes?  
JIM HERMAN: Just the way it is in golf.  You get the afternoon wave and it's just different.  Obviously you're off seven or eight in the morning, wind is down, soft greens, pure greens.  Then you get in the afternoon and it's just a little bit different.  Couldn't get an early birdie to get things going.  Just maybe distance myself a little bit.  But I made a lot of great, solid pars and got under par finally on 13, or 12.  But gave two right back.  Good birdie on 15 to wrap it up.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT