NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v BRUINS
May 26, 2011
Vincent Lecavalier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. He's only done it four times this season. But your power play obviously generated a lot of something last night. That's something that you want to continue going...  
 VINCENT LECAVALIER: Yes, definitely. That was something pretty important for us to capitalize on. We were struggling pretty much the whole series.  
 And against Pittsburgh, went great, against Washington it went great. And they're doing a great job against us. We got more pucks than that yesterday and it went in. Hopefully it snowballs in Game No. 7.  
  
  Q. Do you think it gives them the advantage because they're in their hometown because you guys play really well on the road.   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER: You can say either/or. But I mean, at the end of it, it's the same ice as Tampa, the same dimensions and everything. So it's being played on the ice.   
 Both teams I know want it. Everybody wants to go to the Stanley Cup Finals. And I know that we'll be ready to go. We played a solid game last night. We want to do the same with Game 7, play with our structure, play the right way, keep our emotions in check and make sure we come out with that confidence that we've had the whole series against Washington and Pittsburgh.  
  
  Q. What makes a Game 7 so special? Why is it different than any other?  
 VINCENT LECAVALIER: Well, because either you move on or you go home. I mean, it's definitely -- everybody's a little bit nervous but it's a good nervous.   
 I'm definitely happy that we have been through one of those before. And I know this is for the Stanley Cup Finals, but when you're in the first round against Pittsburgh and a lot of guys this is their first Playoffs to win that first round is a big deal. So it's nice that we played that Game 7. Played it so well and we're composed, and we were like I said playing with our structure. And we won.  
 So we're going to take a lot from that first series.  
  
  Q. As the leader of this team yourself, Martin St. Louis, what was said before last game, and is there anything that needs to be said before Game 7 tomorrow?  
 VINCENT LECAVALIER: Well, I mean, last game was all about coming out and play for each other and, you know, believing in ourselves and believing the games we won this series, how we played.   
 We did that last night. We came out skating, and when we skate, we can be a dangerous team. And we did that last night. Now it's a Game 7. I know both teams will come out hard. But yet what has to be said is just keep your emotions in check, make sure you stay with that structure. That's the most important thing, I think.   
 I think when you get nervous and it should be a good nervous. You should be excited to play the game and not being afraid of making mistakes. Wanting to make a difference, and I think we have that type of team to do that.   
 I think everybody's contributing a lot. Everybody's, since the beginning of the year, I think that's what makes our team pretty successful, is we all have a big role in it. And everybody's really important.   
 So just keep doing that and being excited to play the game.  
  
  Q. Do you feel any pressure as a group, or do you feel the pressure is all on them after last night and coming into Game 7 tomorrow?   
 VINCENT LECAVALIER: I think we put pressure on ourselves. I think a good kind of pressure. We want to -- we want it done, too. We don't want to go home, we want to win this series. But I'm sure they feel that pressure being up 3-2 and tying it up. I mean, I'm sure it's tough on them. So we'll try and take advantage of that.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT