NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLYERS v LIGHTNING
May 22, 2004
Dave Andreychuk
Vincent Lecavalier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Dave, what does it feel like to be going to the Stanley Cup Finals? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  Well, obviously you dream about this day to happen.  You don't know how you are going to feel.  I don't know, I don't really feel relief.  I feel excitement more than anything else; I feel excitement for what is happened to our club.  And the improvements we have made in the last three years and everybody in that locker room should be pretty proud of the situation we are in. 
 Q.  When you first came to the organization did you think this was even possible? 
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  (Laughs).  Well, first four five years we were in the bottom of the League in standings and really started believing it.  Last year I think we had a great season and you know, everything kind of snowballed to this year and then, you know, it's really starting this year that everything kind of sunk in that we could win. 
 Q.  Tuesday will be your 99th game regular season and Playoffs.  What can you give to the young guys who have never been  -- really unchartered waters now? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  I am also in unchartered waters myself.  But I tell you one thing that I can talk about is that we have worked hard to get there and our job is not done yet.  We feel that this is another step, so we have to be focused.  Obviously we can enjoy this tonight but then we have got to get back to work tomorrow. 
 Q.  Talk about the feeling in the third period, at the end of the game; what went through your mind? 
 VINCENT LECAVALIER:  Well, between the second and third I think about 10 guys said "safe is death," you know, let's go after them we don't want to repeat what happened last game.  But it's a great feeling.  There was five minutes left, so nervous that something might happen and we pulled through.  We kept coming after them.  We worked hard and felt really good. 
 Q.  Looked like you didn't want to have anything to do with that trophy.  Have you guys talked about that before? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  A few guys talked to me about it, but obviously I have watched for quite a few years and I have watched ever since I was a kid and that trophy is going to sit up in our foyer in this building, but I think we're looking for the big one.  I just felt like our job is not done. 
 Q.  Could you talk about as the final seconds ticked away; is it a blur, were things flashing in your mind about that moment? 
 DAVE ANDREYCHUK:  Well, I know in Philadelphia I clock-watched a little bit as the game went down.  I did not clock-watch today.  I didn't look at the clock until there was about three minutes to go in the period.  I just felt like that now is our time.  That they were not going to be able to come back on us this time, and we had some great effort at the end of the game that typifies how we got there, battling on the boards, making sure the puck was out, you know, making a shot block, those are all things of why we're here. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT