NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: FLYERS v LIGHTNING
May 13, 2004
Vincent Lecavalier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Vinny, your goal was the perfect answer in the third period, could you talk about the importance of that third goal? 
 VINCENT LeCAVALIER:  It was definitely very important.  They came out in the third and got a goal.  They were all over us, they were hitting us and playing our zone.  After they got that goal, to score that third goal was huge for us.  It was a great play by Marty. 
 Q.  Where did the shot go? 
 VINCENT LeCAVALIER:  I think it went high glove. 
 Q.  Where? 
 VINCENT LeCAVALIER:  High glove. 
 Q.  Earlier this year, you struggled on breakaways, what are you doing differently now; are you just going in and shooting and not thinking about it?  What's your approach now? 
 VINCENT LeCAVALIER:  Well, I mean, a clear breakaway, it's not as easy, you're not going to score every time.  Yes, I've missed some, I've scored some.  Tonight I just decided to shoot.  I've been practicing the last couple of weeks with John Grahame, because I want to have more than one option and with a goalie like Esche, I thought shooting may be better, and it was. 
 Q.  How much do you think you reestablished your team identity tonight a little bit? 
 VINCENT LeCAVALIER:  Well, it was definitely a huge comeback like that, after the last game, where it wasn't our best game.  But, you know what, right after that last game, we forgot about it, and we just told ourselves that we came out tonight and come here to win.  We knew they were going to come out hard in the first period, and they did, but we stuck with it.  We played hard, and scoring that first goal in Philly, it's huge. 
 Q.  Your coach had talked about the best players have to be the best players, how much pressure were you and Marty feeling?  And the second part would be how did the match-up go tonight or do you think you got away from it? 
 VINCENT LeCAVALIER:  Well, the first question, I mean, I think our offensive line obviously had to come out and score tonight.  I think the guys like Modin, Stillman, everybody has been contributing the whole series.  I think four or five guys, with five or six goals, we've had some big goals from the fourth line, like Andre Roy and Dingman.  Tonight it happened that Marty made a great play to me and I scored, but it was a great team effort from everybody.  All four lines, all six D, and obviously Nik Khabibulin cab made the saves.  If it wasn't for them, they could have came back and scored two goals and tied it up. 
 Q.  The success of your team on the road this playoff, what has been the key, and talk about that aspect of it, how well you guys have played on the road? 
 VINCENT LeCAVALIER:  Well, yeah, I don't know, we come out as hard as if we played at home.  We are so motivated, every time we go on the ice, it doesn't matter where we're at. 
 The first game, I remember the Islanders, I think we lost, not even sure, but we came and we just played so hard.  It doesn't matter if we are away or at home, we are just coming out to win.  We made sure that tonight was big for us, also. 
 Q.  They said the last couple of days, of course that, with the talk between both coaches and the media, how much of an effect did that have on you guys, and what was the effect in the room and feeling in the room when all of that was going on? 
 VINCENT LeCAVALIER:  Well, we were watching it actually last night when we were playing cards.  It was pretty  -- you know, it's part of the game.  I think Torts protected us by what he said.  But that's over with.  He said what he had to say.  Mr.  Hitchcock said what he had to say, and that's it. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT