NEWSWEEK CHAMPIONS CUP
March 10, 1997
Francisco Clavet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
FRANCISCO CLAVET:  Thank you. 
 

Q.   What do you think made you the better player today?
 
FRANCISCO CLAVET:  I think it has not been a big difference between us.  I think maybe the key is in that I served really well.  I think my percentage has been very good.  But I think it was a very close match, just reflex, it was very difficult to play from the baseline.  Each time we serve, I think the games were  very short.  So, I don't know, I think it is kind of luck to my side.  But, no big difference. 
 

Q.   How hot was it out there?   They said it was like 107 degrees.
 
FRANCISCO CLAVET:  Yeah, it was very hot. Really hot.  Anyway, the match has been really long, like two hours and I don't know, 15 minutes, but the points were very short, because it was like just serve every time, maybe the rallies has been few during the match.  So, I think we didn't get very tired outside. 
 

Q.   He has been playing a lot this year.  Did you think that that would work for you that he might be playing too much and got tired?
 
FRANCISCO CLAVET:  I don't know.  I think all the players are used to playing like him or like me.  I don't know.  I think it is not a matter of how much he played this year.  He is very fit and I think he can afford all those tournaments.  So, I think it is not because he has played a lot of tournaments.  Maybe he played a little bit, but I don't think that that was the key of the match - I think so.  I don't know. 
 

Q.   How big a win is this for you?   Ranking-wise he is not that far from you, but he was once No. 1.
 
FRANCISCO CLAVET:  Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah.  This  is -- I mean, I think it is going to give me a lot of confidence.  I am really happy about this victory because he has been No. 1 in the world.  And, I don't know, I think he is not in his best form now.  But, anyway he is Jim Courier and this gives you confidence.  It a big name in tennis and it is also important for the player to beat a player like him. 
 

Q.   Did you feel that the balls were kind of like flying?
 
FRANCISCO CLAVET:  Yeah.  I think so.  The balls are very light this year.  I think in Scottsdale it was the same.  It is really difficult to control the ball, because if you don't hit really well, the ball, or you hit it late, the balls fly unbelievable.  So, I think it is really difficult to play from the baseline to play rallies.  That is why I think the key is in the serve, who is serving better, I think wins the match. 
 

Q.   What is the difference between Courier now and when you played him in 1991 and 1992?
 
FRANCISCO CLAVET:  The difference is that he beat me then and I beat him now (laughter).  I don't know.  I think maybe he is not with  the same motivation now like he was before.  I think he -- I really don't know.  You have to ask him.  But, I think he wants to come back again.  He is practicing hard.  He is playing a lot of tournaments so I think he is also with the same mentality now.  But, I think it is really difficult to get back to the No. 1.  But, he is trying hard and I think he can come back also in the top 10 again.  Maybe not No. 1, but in the top 10. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT