THE SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
July 26, 2014
Rick Gibson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   6 today.   How well do you feel you played?  
RICK GIBSON:   Yeah.   I kind of misjudged my first iron shot, and then I hit a bad first putt and three‑putted.   
But I didn't seem to let it bother me that much, came right back with a birdie and then played actually some pretty good golf from there on in.  
   
 Q.   Tell me about your caddie, young Harry.   How did you meet him?   In a pro am or something, isn't it?  
RICK GIBSON:   Yeah.   Last year in the Wales senior Open here at Porthcawl we had a pro junior day that we played‑‑ I think we played three or four holes with him in the driving rain and wind, and Harry and I‑‑ I just liked his attitude, and he asked the right questions and stuff, and I got ahold of Peter, his dad, who's the head pro here a few weeks back and asked if he wanted to play some golf so I could get in a couple of practice rounds as well.   
And we just hit it off, and I mean for 14, he's an old head on young shoulders.  
   
 Q.   You won the last start on the senior tour.   Something clicked in the game?  
RICK GIBSON:   Yeah.   I find something that I'm still working on that kind of went on me in a few swings just coming in, but all in all it's coming.   I'm just trying to find something that I used to have way back when, trying to refined it.  
   
 Q.   You may have Bernhard Langer for company tomorrow.   Your thoughts on that?  
RICK GIBSON:   Yeah, it's been a long time since I've had the pleasure of his company.   I think it was in the World Cup in Capetown, sometime in the early 90s, so it's been a long time.   
I mean I think the last time I looked at the board he's 13 under still, so incredible golfer for this course.  
   
 Q.   66.   This puts you right up into a prominent place.   
RICK GIBSON:   Yeah.   To be honest, I didn't really add it up until I was finished, and I just‑‑ Barry was really good company today, very relaxed, and I just made the right putts at the right time just to keep the round going.  
   
 Q.   Kind of good frame of mind to be in, really it, just cruised along in a sense?  
RICK GIBSON:   Yeah, I misjudged the first iron shot, and then kind of hit a bad first putt and three‑putted the first, so it looked like I was nervous as hell, but really I wasn't.   Certainly would have looked that way.   
But yeah, just the right putts at the right time today, and really good birdie on No. 9, which is kind of a par‑4 and a half at least, so that was a nice bonus.  
   
 Q.   And you didn't seem to show those nerves on the Back 9.   There was a bit more composure and certainly to run it close for the eagle at the last.   
RICK GIBSON:   Yeah.   I put some better swings on it right at the end.   14‑‑ 15 and 16 I put a couple of kind of old swings, I want to call it.   I've been working on something that seems to be more consistent, but the old one creeps in and creeped in on 11, too.   I hit a horrible little wedge shot on 11 but I was able to get it up‑and‑down.   
Yeah, I just made a couple of really nice up‑and‑downs and a couple of nice putts at the right time.  
   
 Q.   Has it changed your approach, your attitude when you go into a third round knowing you're playing well and knowing the leader is so far ahead?  
RICK GIBSON:   Yeah.   I guess everybody's heard of it's like two tournaments.   I don't know if you can really‑‑ I don't have a whole lot of experience on the links, but I know that things can happen real quick on the links.   Obviously Bernhard is playing extremely well and the rest of us are kind of in a pack behind him.   But links and links, and I understand we're going to get some wind tomorrow.   At least that's what people keep telling me.  
And Royal Porthcawl is fine‑‑ we've only had light breezes so far, and Bernhard is the only one who's kind of figured it out.   So with some wind tomorrow it's going to be very interesting.  
   
 Q.   When you say about experience on links, we got used to you playing in Asia on the grainy greens and Hong Kong Malaysia and places like that.   Is it a bit odd coming from say manilla where you've had a home and moving over and playing in these different courses, different environments?  
RICK GIBSON:   My home course in manilla in the dry season gets kind of bouncy.   It doesn't get links bouncy, but it plays a bit bouncy.  
And I've always enjoyed playing in Melbourne, which I think is a slightly better maintained type of softer links.   But this is true links.   I mean outside of probably St. Andrews and a couple of rounds at Turnberry a couple of years I don't really have that much experience at it.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT