CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 15, 2020
Stephanie Meadow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. First pro start to now I would imagine there were some times where being in 2020 at CME might have been an afterthought of your career.
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, definitely.  I mean, I wouldn't say -- I mean, there is definitely points in my career where I thought I was done, probably like '15 or '16, you know.
But I just --  this is what I love to do and it's always been my dream.  It's kind of funny, because I was here in 2015 to receive the Heather Farr Award, and then I thought about it today because obviously I stayed at the Ritz.
Things have come a long way since then.  Just kind of proud of myself for sticking it out and excited to see what I can continue to do.
Q. Yeah, what a journey for you.
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah.
Q. I mean, I know your journey.  When did your dad pass?  Was it 2017?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   It was 2015.
Q. You don't remember what month it was?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   It was May of 2015, yeah.
Q. So from your dad passing away to you had back surgery...
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, injury, yeah.
Q. So just to be here finally, it's got to be kind of a weight lifted off you I would imagine.
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, I think like this whole year has just been kind of almost proving to myself that do I belong here, I think.  You know, to finally be consistently making cuts and to be playing not so great and finishing tied for 30th, that doesn't sound great, but in your head you know you had way more out there.  It builds confidence.
Yeah, just been such a long journey, but a good one.  You learn a lot of things along the way, and hopefully I can use those in the future.
Q. When you made that putt at Volunteers of America last year, what that a turning point?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, I think so.  I mean, I learned a lot about myself that week.  I knew what I had to do.  I knew on the last hole what I had to do.  I knew I needed birdie it to kind of guarantee it.
To be able to actually do it and prove to yourself that, okay, under the gun you can pull it off, that's awesome.  I think I've been able to carry that through.
Q. Was that on 72nd hole?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yes.
Q. Needed a birdie to get to -- secure your card?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, yeah.  I mean, I knew -- like I had an idea that numbers-wise how much money I needed to make and I figured that par on that hole probably would've have been good enough, and I think I was about right.
You know, and I couldn't have missed the leaderboard.  It was literally right behind my putt.  I knew I had to make it.
Q. You mentioned your receiving the Heather Farr Award.  That's for the perseverance?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, uh-huh.
Q. So to come full circle, if you will, this week, what's it like stepping back on the grounds at the Ritz and to know that you're one of the 70 that have qualified for this event?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, I mean, when I was here in 2015 of course I was bummed to not be playing.  I felt I was getting such an amazing award selected by peers, but I still, you know, in my heart all wanted to do was play.
So to now be in the position where I am playing, you know -- I just like mentally at that point I was just not in a good place.  To know now that I got through it and mentally -- obviously the loss of any sort of parent or of any loved one is always going to be with you, but you learn to deal with it and move on and remember the positives and use it to your advantage.
I feel like that's what I've done.  Yeah, kind of, yeah, hit me a little bit harder yesterday when I first walked on.  I had memories of going to the banquet and seeing the hotel again and knowing that I was a totally different person mentally then to have gotten on the other side.
Q. And you'll have your fiance on the bag.
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Uh-huh, yeah.
Q. Little decision making obviously over the last several months to get to this point.  How nice is it to be here finally working together and what went into the decision?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, it's really nice.  You know, at the end of the day I guess the timing was perfect, and we just thought we would give it a go and see what we can make of it.
Obviously he caddied for me on Symetra so he's got a pretty good track record with me.  So it just made sense.  I think both of us are really comfortable, and I feel like I have someone who completely has my back.  I really think that's going to make a difference going forward.
Q. And he caddied for Jennifer and Cristie this year; is that it?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, that's it.
Q. Okay.  Then you got airbnb with the pups this week.  What are your dogs' names again?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Dallas.
Q. Dallas.  How long have you had Dallas?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   We've had him for a year now.  He's like 14 months.
Q. You didn't have him when we were out visiting, I don't think.
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   No, uh-uh.  No, just last year.  I think we got him a couple days ago like last year.
Q. Golden retriever, right?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yes.
Q. That will make the week nice.
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yes, it will.  It's nice.  Lots of walking.  He loves it though.  He loves coming to the parking lot and seeing all the players, which is kind of funny.
He gets excited to do that because he meets everyone, which is cool.
Q. Got a bunch of new friends.
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah.
Q. Have you ever played this course?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   No.  First time was yesterday.
Q. What do you think?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   I really like it.  I know that like Kyle was here before, so he said it's playing quite different, a lot softer.  It was a lot more baked when we played earlier in the year, so I think it's playing different.
The greens are rolling unbelievably and think it's a good setup.  Still lots of birdies out there, so much of the same I'm sure scoring-wise.
Q. And you got some nice rest.  Didn't have to travel from Houston or anything.
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yes, I know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT