CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 25, 2016
Stephanie Meadow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You didn't know you were leading the tournament; what's that feeling like?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: It's awesome.  You know, something that I've been focusing on all year is to start off a little better in all my tournaments, so to come out today and shoot low has been spectacular.
Q. Do you think you're carrying some momentum over from Rio?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah, definitely.  I think Rio was a huge adrenaline rush for everyone that was there.  I know all of us had a fantastic experience.  I played pretty good in the second round there, too.  I think I definitely took some confidence and am rolling it into this week.
Q. Is it difficult after having to wait like three hours to go back out on the course?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah, a little bit, especially when you're on a little bit of a roll.  You kind of start thinking and whatever.  But I just texted my mom and my coach, and my coach just said stay in your own little bubble and keep doing what you're doing, and it worked.
Q. To come from a big adrenaline rush in Rio, how do you avoid feeling kind of a letdown or just a lull when you come to the tournament here?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: You know, definitely it seems like a little bit of a lull, but this is one of the biggest tournaments all year, and I think it's fantastically run.  I'm here to compete and win no matter what week, so I think any tournament gives me a little bit of a rush.  Maybe not as much as the Olympics but mostly all the time.
Q. You birdied your final two holes; do you take that momentum into tomorrow?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah, it was nice.  There was a little patch in the middle where I missed some greens and made a bogey, so it was nice to kind of fight back and make two birdies coming in.  I think it'll be a late tee time tomorrow, but I can definitely sleep good now that I birdied the last two.
Q. You must really like this course; it sets up well for your game?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah, I think so.  My caddie always jokes that when it's windy I always play great, so I guess that's kind of my deal.  Being from Ireland, that's just part of it.
Q. How did you kill three hours during the weather delay?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: I just sat there and talked to a couple of the Irish caddies and my caddie and a couple other players.  It went by pretty fast.  I ate, too, so that was good.
Q. How would you describe your round, or did you have a good feeling from the get-go about this?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah, for sure.  The days leading up to today, I hit it great.  I only really played one practice round here.  I played a pro-am on Monday and then walked the course on Tuesday, so I definitely had enough info to kind of get me through.  But I've been playing great, and I just knew if I could just keep my head and be strong mentally, I could put a good score together.
Q. How do you prepare for tomorrow?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Just go relax, have fun.  I love my job.  I wouldn't change it for the world.  I'll just go home or go to the hotel and chill.
Q. What's your caddie's name?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Brett.
Q. Last name?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Nickolite.
Q. He helps you out a lot?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah, for sure.  We've been friends, I hired him at the start of the year.  He used to work at the golf course that I practiced at back in South Carolina.  I hired him at the start of the year, and he's really helped me battle through a couple things, and he's definitely a great part of my team.
Q. You mentioned the wind; did it get pretty gusty out there, remind you a bit of home?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Definitely.  It was gray and it looked like it was rain and windy, so that's pretty much Ireland in a nutshell.  But definitely I think it's nice to know that I can play in those conditions.  I've done it a lot, even though it's when I was little, but I've still done it and scored, so I know I can do it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT