CURTIS CUP MATCH
June 6, 2014
Ally McDonald
Stephanie Meadow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   A great match, you had so much birdies. 
    STEPHANIE MEADOW:   I think they were eight under and we were 6‑under.   We were making birdies and they had to make putts behind us, and the other way around.   
    So I mean, that was probably one of the best matches I've ever played in my entire life. A lot of people have come up to me and said that was pretty impressive, so it was good. 

Q.   And did this feel like a loss, getting the half point this morning? 
    STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, to be honest, like they birdied 16 and they birdied 18.   We were looking like we could close out the match on 16. 
    So it's kind of‑‑ that was kind of disappointing but we didn't make any mistakes and they had to make the putts and we just didn't. 

Q.   So it's 5‑1, kind of your thoughts on what you do now. 
    STEPHANIE MEADOW:   I mean, the same thing.   I mean, I know Georgia and I, we wouldn't change anything.   I haven't talked to the rest of the girls yet but a lot of the closer matches there seems to be a few swinging points that we just were not on the right side of today.   We have some great players and if we can just get some putts going in, you never know. 

Q.   You like the course? 
    STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, it's a great course, it's a lot of fun.   
    ALLY McDONALD:   5‑1, I think that's a good start for day and it's definitely going to be something that we can build off of and carry into tomorrow.   I think everyone is playing really well, so we're just all going to focus on, we have to leave today behind us, and we have to play like you're down.   I think no matter what match it is, no matter how many points you have. 
    So I think tomorrow we are going to have the same mind‑set and just approach it like we're down?

Q.   You had some really good shots on 11 and 12 and seemed like that was the time you were going to turn around; did it fall back on you guys a little bit? 
    ALLY McDONALD:   I think we started playing better.   We started, like I said, not so good and we kind of started finding it I think about halfway. 
    Yeah, 11 was a big hole and 12.   It really helps to build off of each other.   You can't get into any rhythm, so you just have to take it as if you hit that shot and just carry on throughout the day?

Q.   On your approach to 11, was it in the second or the first part of the rough? 
    ALLY McDONALD:   It was in the second part of the rough. 

Q.   How did your first day as a Curtis Cupper feel?   Did it live up to the hype? 
    ALLY McDONALD:   Yeah, I think I played pretty well as a whole.   I think there were shots that I left out there and that I didn't hit as well as I would have liked.   
    Obviously I wish I would have hit a better shot here but like I said, alternate‑shot is really tough, and it's really important not to apologize.   I know in alternate‑shot, you feel sorry when you put people in certain circumstances.   So me and Emma paired up really well.   Our games are a lot alike so we were able to approach things and discuss things a lot.

Q.   Have you played alternate‑shot before today? 
    ALLY McDONALD:   I have.   We used to play in the tri‑state in Mississippi, Alabama, we would play like a little Ryder Cup format, and of course when we played alternate‑shot, we played both people hit off the tee and pick your best‑ball.   So it's completely different. 

Q.   In terms of the history, seeing past players out here, people all dressed up, do you appreciate a little bit more of what Ellen was trying to express to you before the matches started? 
    ALLY McDONALD:   Yeah, this is definitely the biggest crowd that I've ever had watching.   So that part of it, I know is what Ellen was trying to say in how supportive St.Louis is. 
    You know, it's a different feeling with that many people around, but I think I handled it well?

Q.   How are the nerves? 
    ALLY McDONALD:   First tee was really the only nerves. 

Q.   Of the morning? 
    ALLY McDONALD:   Of the morning, yeah, just that first shot.   I think that's always a big one for everybody.   And of course putting Emma in basically a gimmie, so you don't want her to putt, but the putt was a lot slower than I thought it would be, but walked off with a halve. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT