PELICAN WOMEN'S CHAMPIONSHIP
November 21, 2020
Stephanie Meadow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Okay, here with Steph Meadow.  Let's break down this third round for you.  I know the first couple holes maybe not the start you wanted, but how did you regroup yourself after the two bogeys you started with?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, I just had a couple bad shots and then I hit decent chips and then missed the putts.  You know, it is what it is.  It's kind of that sort of golf course.
No. 2 is a really hard hole, so just kind of accepted it and I moved on.
Q. I know it's kind of like a rollercoaster out there, especially when you're just trying to find your groove.  How did you find your groove after that to still come away and be where you are on the leaderboard?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Just saw some putts go in really.  My swing felt a little better.  Focused kind of on my tempo, and that started giving me a little bit of confidence.
And then once you see a couple balls go in the hole, it kind of goes from there.
Q. Take us through the back nine, especially when you're playing against Sei Young and Ally.  You see them rolling in those putts.  What did you say to yourself to make sure you can find the ball into the hole?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, I just remembered what I talked about this morning to Kyle.  Like he just said, They might make putts.  Just stick to your own thing, and (indiscernible) at the end.  I just kept saying that to myself over and over again.
I made kind of a long-ish putt and a couple short ones and a good on the Par 5, so it's all about patience on this golf course.  It could have gone the other way pretty quick, and I was able to not let that happen.
Q. You talk about Kyle, your fiance.  He's here on Cristie Kerr's bag.  What's that like to go home after whatever day you have and be able to talk to him about your round?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   It's amazing.  I'm really lucky that I get to travel with him.  It makes tour life not as lonely, because it can be lonely sometimes.  We have our dog here this week.
Yeah, it's just fun.  It's a good life.
Q. We've got one more day ahead of us and it looks like it's going to be the same final grouping as it was today.  What does that mean to you to know you're still up there in contention?
STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, just keep grinding away and see what happens.  Hopefully I can hit some good shots, make some putts, and see where that leaves me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT