PELICAN WOMEN'S CHAMPIONSHIP
November 20, 2020
Stephanie Meadow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. All right, Steph, coming away with one of the lowest rounds of the day.  How are you feeling coming off the course now?
 STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Pretty good.  I mean, my back nine was awesome.  Played really solid.  The front nine I hit barely any greens and made a ton of up-and-downs.  Just kept my cool on my front nine, the back nine, and was able to make some birdies coming in, which was nice.
 Q. I was going to say, you did start off with the bogey there.  What happened on the 1st hole and how did you regroup going forward?
 STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, I hit it right at the front of the green and tried to putt down that big slope and I left it on top of the slope, the one thing you don't want to do.
 Yeah, when I hit it I didn't think it was that short, so total miss-feel by me.  That's a tough hole.  There are a couple holes out here that are really tough and I feel like sometime if you bogey them it's going to happen.  Scoring average definitely over par on those holes.
 Q. I was going to say, a lot people have said that this back nine has been the most challenging you've seen in a little bit, too.  Would you agree?
 STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, definitely.  I mean, you can see by the scores.  Like this is definitely kind of major-esque golf.  With it being a par 70 and less par-5s to make birdies on, that makes a big difference, too.
 Q. Especially with the wind when you have to judge the wind and the greens.  That front nine you came out kicking.  Talk to me about that.
 STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah.  Let's see, I mean, really all my birdie opportunities were probably inside 15 feet, and I putted really good today.  I don't think I missed really anything, which was nice.
 I just have to judge the bounces and get some good breaks here and there, because they are starting to firm up obviously downwind it was some firm greens.  It's pretty tricky, so you need luck on your side as well.
 Q. Being able to close off the way that you did here on the finishing hole, how confident are you being able to finish there and take that into tomorrow?
 STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, keep doing the same things.  This is what I work for and I want to be up top, so I'll just keep plugging along and see where it leads us.
 Q. I know we're coming off a three-week break.  During that break you were able to spend time at home.  Are you one of those people that you worked on a lot more over that break, or were you putting the clubs down?
 STEPHANIE MEADOW:   I put the clubs away for like a weeks, and the last two weeks I played a lot at Silver Leaf and just with members.  I used to be a big practicer and now I'm just not.
 I just like to be out on the golf course.  I think I get more out of it that way as well.
 Q. I was going to ask why, but there is that reason.  But you came way from a Reynolds Lake Oconee with a T34 finish.  What have you been learning about your game to get to this point this week?
 STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Yeah, I played really good on the last day and then I hit it in the water on 18 in Georgia.  You know, I felt like I could have finished really well there and kind of just took the momentum and tried to forget about the fact that that happened.
 Then I've had a lot of really consistent finishes this year, a lot around T30, and, you know, just haven't gotten everything to click.  So just kept telling myself at some point you're going to putt well, hit it good, and get some good breaks all in the same week, and so far that's what's happening.
 Q. Sometimes one week is all it takes.  What is there to work on heading into tomorrow?
 STEPHANIE MEADOW:   Might just hit some iron shots.  I hit a couple thin today.  Trying to figure out what's going on there.
 Other than that, not a whole lot.  Just get some rest and be ready to go.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT