KIA CLASSIC
March 28, 2019
Stephanie Meadow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So 5-under, bogey-free.  Has to be a really good feeling.  
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yep.  Yeah, it was good.  Really consistent day.  Just hit a bunch fairways and a bunch of greens and rolled some putts in, so pretty stress-free golf, which is always nice.   
 Q.  Any of those birdies particularly stood out to you or was it just kind of a steady round?  
STEPHANIE MEADOW: You know, I made a really good birdie on 11, the par 3.  I hit it in there to like ten feet and I had a downhill slider and made it.  That kind of kept the momentum going.  I think that was my best one.   
 Q.  I know you were sidelined for quite a while with the back injury.  
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah.   
 Q.  How are you feeling?  What's it feel like to be back out her at Kia?  
STEPHANIE MEADOW: It's amazing.  I learned a lot last year.  At the time I didn't want to go through it, but I think everything happens for a reason.  I've learned a lot.  I think it makes you appreciate being out here and being able to play on this kind of scene for this kind of money.   
It's just a really good experience.   
 Q.  Remind me, was it a back injury or...  
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah.  L5 stress fracture.  Yeah, it was pretty serious and I didn't know for a while and it was a little scary.  My physio has done an amazing job and I'm back it fully healthy.   
As long as I just keep myself in my bubble I'm good to go.   
 Q.  If I remember correctly, I saw just up the road there is a billboard with your face on it.  
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah, yeah, yeah.  We were driving here and I thought I might see maybe something from the tournament.  I'm like, Oh, it's me.  That was kind of cool.  It was my first billboard.  Got a quick picture, and I think Zach took a picture ans tweeted it yesterday, so that's kind of cool.  Must be a good area for me.   
 Q.  Wanted to ask you about what it was like last year going back to the Symetra and how hard that was to just kind of be in that situation again.  
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah, it was definitely hard in the beginning.  Obviously it's a different kind of feeling when you go to tournaments, so it was kind of swallow your pride.   
But you know what?  There are some really awesome girls out there that are really good players.  I kept saying to people, If you win on Symetra and you can Top 5 every week, you're going to be able to compete out here, too.  The tour has gotten so much better in the last five years.   
I learned a lot, and I would never change that experience.   
 Q.  The back injury itself, when did it occur?  
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Like June of 2017 I guess.  I played with it for ten weeks without knowing.  So that kind of -- I didn't get a medical and blah, blah, blah.  Yeah, so I kind of screwed myself a little bit, but now I know the rules.   
But it happens.  Like I said, I wouldn't change it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT