CANADIAN PACIFIC WOMEN'S OPEN
August 26, 2016
Stephanie Meadow
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you would have liked to have made that birdie putt at the 10, but how does it feel to be able to kind of bounce back from going up and then going back down?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah, for sure.  It's a rough little stretch there in the middle, and I just kind of had to pull myself together and say, all right, if I said at the start of the week I would be right here, then fair enough.  You know, I'm going to go play.  I definitely saved myself on the back nine with my short game, and it wasn't pretty, but I got it done, and that's what golf's about.
Q. You seem like you've been pretty confident.  Just two rounds like this?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Yeah, I think over the last month or two my confidence has been going higher and higher.  Then with the Olympics I played pretty good there apart from the first day, so that is another confidence boost in a high-pressure environment.
So I'm definitely feeling better, and I love what me and my coach are working on and my whole team has been great.  I'm just building right now.
Q. Anything in particular you've been working on?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: No, it's just taken a while.  My ball striking is a lot better than it was last year.  Thanks to Jorge, he's worked an awful lot to get me to where I am today.  My putting has been great.  Mentally my caddie and I have been trying to focus on shot to shot and having a good attitude and that's really paying off.
Q. What's his name?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: Parada, yes.
Q. What do you take away from these two days?
STEPHANIE MEADOW: I didn't have my best game today and I still shot 69.  So I think everyone's going to have a bad nine holes throughout a four-round stretch, and I'll just keep going tomorrow and hopefully get the ball striking back and make some birdies and have fun.  This is what we work for.  This is our environment to be out there on the leaderboard.  So it's going to be fun.  I'm going to enjoy it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT