NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 16, 2011
Jennifer Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. As we see so often in golf, it's very hard to follow up a spectacular round with another one. Congratulations on the 65 yesterday. What were the big differences between yesterday and today's rounds?  
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Well definitely my putting. I putted pretty bad today. But having 26 putts yesterday, it's hard to follow that up. I had such a good ball-striking round yesterday. You know, same thing.   
 But I didn't hit it that bad today.  
  
  Q. You were sponsored by Navistar and you've committed to giving back half of your earnings this week to the Wounded Warrior Project. You played with Dan Nevins who we just interviewed in the pro-am. It sounds like things are lining up to perhaps be a magical week for you.   
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, I hope I can play well on the weekend and just give as much as I can to the Wounded Warrior Project.  
  
  Q. How does Dan inspire you?  
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: I told my mom about my round with him, and she's like, If he can play golf with no legs, I think you can play golf with two legs. I think every Wounded Warrior just puts everything in perspective. We got it so good out here. I think that's helped me so far this week.  
  
  Q. Makes it easier to handle those three-footers for par.   
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah.  
  
  Q. Talk your year so far and the adjustment in your first year on the LPGA Tour?  
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, I mean, every day, every tournament is just a learning experience. Being at the top of leaderboard, that's new for me. Just hopefully I can end the year with a couple more on the top of the leaderboard.   
  
  Q. Well, I think it's a position that hopefully you'll get very comfortable with. Thanks for taking the time.   
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Thanks.   
  
  Q. Just take me through your round a little bit today. I know you were talking about your putting kind of wasn't there.   
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah.  
  
  Q. How otherwise did you feel about your game today?  
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: You know, in the beginning I had couple like (indiscernible.) I just didn't leave myself sure enough putts. I had two three-putts back to back on 14 and 15, so, I mean, that doesn't leave a very good taste in your mouth.  
 And then I just had -- you know, the birdie on 17 was nice. Then just on my back nine, the front nine, just some short birdie putts I didn't make. I was hitting some close approach shots, but if only they can drop, you know.  
  
  Q. Still, to find yourself near the top of the leaderboard heading into the weekend, how good a feeling is that?  
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: It's great to be in contention. It's where you want to be, at the top. Just keep moving up.   
  
  Q. I know you've got a lot of attention for pledging half of your earnings. Did you hear anything from anybody last night after such a great round? I know seeing all the Wounded Warriors watching you, that meant a lot.   
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, I got some texts and phone calls, and then having Dan at sidelines, you know, some Navistar folks, it's nice having that support.   
  
  Q. Anything that you're going to try to focus on this weekend?   
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Well, I'm going to definitely go work on my putting. Just try and get the speed better.  
  
  Q. How were the conditions today?  
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Oh, they're pretty scorable conditions. You don't have to deal with any wind. Some of the pins I thought were pretty accessible. I just didn't take advantage of 'em. (Laughing.)   
  
  Q. Any changes in the next two days?  
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Just get my putting a little better.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT