NAVISTAR LPGA CLASSIC
September 15, 2011
Jennifer Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What a back nine for you. Take me through what kind of turned on the switch, and how did you get things going?   
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: I don't know, I mean, you know, started out kind of slow for me. Had a birdie on the first hole, and then I 3-putted on three. So I was like, okay, it's going one of these this kind of days.  
 Then I fought my way through some good pars and then birdied 9 and just got it rolling from there. And the eagle definitely helped on 15.   
  
  Q. Can you take me through that eagle? What did you hit?   
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, my drive I was -- it was pretty windy. I was trying hit like a 150-yard shot. I hit my 6-iron like I was trying to land it on the front. I thought it wasn't going to be enough. I was like yelling at it to get up, and then it just kind of curved right in the hole and I was happy.  
  
  Q. Not a bad way. Talking with the other players, Suzann Pettersen was talking about how tough the wind was this afternoon. To be able to turn it around like that and shoot what you did, especially on the back nine, do you feel pretty proud of yourself with these conditions.  
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, well, I mean, a lot of tournaments this year we've had wind, like Canada, so that was some good practice. I don't know. I just thought my caddie and I played pretty well, played the wind pretty well.   
 Yeah, good round.   
  
  Q. Weigh all know about your donation. You've already pledged to donate half your winnings to the Wounded Warrior project. To be able to come out and post a number like this and be the first-round leader, how good does that feel?   
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, I'm pretty excited. That's some extra motivation this week. Hopefully I can keep it up and give a bunch of money to those guys.  
  
  Q. Coming out this late like this - this morning the conditions were so nice - do you get jealous of what they had to go through?  
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, before I started I was wishing I was done because it was so windy. But you know, you never know what can happen.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT