LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 10, 2011
Jennifer Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: We'd like to welcome Jennifer Johnson into the interview room. Congratulations on your round of 67 today, the number you shot last week - I know on a par-71 course - but talk to me just a little about the round today and what was going right for you out there.
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Well, after yesterday's round I felt like I could have got a lot lower. I was just leaving so many putts short.
 So I talked with my coach after, and, you know, my goal today was to just focus on the pace of the putt. Yeah, I got more putts to the hole. There was still some I wasn't happy with, but work on that this afternoon.
 Yeah, the 67 in New Jersey was my first under par in an LPGA event, so that was a little milestone.
 MODERATOR: It's always nice to get those. This is your rookie season, and you've played in two events prior to this one. How has this year been for you? I know you played well last week kind of towards the end. What's been going right for you and how happy are you with how you've been able to play so far this year? 
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Um, I would say I'm hitting the ball really well. I think last week I had around 80% fairways and greens, so I'm giving myself chances.
 My putting has been struggling, but I think I'm just -- yeah, I keep giving myself chances.
 MODERATOR: As you say, not many events yet really to even kind of try that out in. But so far with yesterday's round and today, excited about how you've been playing? 
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Oh, yeah, I'm really excited. You know, the top of the leaderboard is where you want to be. I just want to go out there and play my own game on the weekend.
 MODERATOR: Questions.

 Q. I know this is your third LPGA event this year, you know, where you're at on the priority list and so forth. In the meantime, have you played in the Futures Tour events other than LPGA things?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: I have; I played three Futures Tour events. I did some Monday qualifiers and wasn't successful, so I just went onto the Futures Tour event that week.

 Q. In the Futures things you've done, how have you done there?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: I did pretty good. Let's see, I got tied for third; I think like a fifth; maybe another fifth or somewhere around there. (Laughter.) I'd have to look it up.

 Q. Well, yeah. But when you've been in those events and you're in the LPGA events, I mean, obviously this is the ultimate. When you get out here is there just -- I mean, the competition level, is it -- I mean, I guess there are obvious things about it. Is the competition level just "wow" compared to the Futures?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Well, yeah, I mean, the venues are better, the crowds and just the atmosphere. And the competition, yeah, I mean, all the players are good and they'll just push you. 

 Q. How old are you?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: I'm 19. 

 Q. You were at Arizona State for one year. 
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Last year.

 Q. Obviously you had a very good amateur career. I mean, the decision to go pro, I'm after the Curtis Cup were you pretty -- was it a tough decision, or were you pretty much, This is what I want to do?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: I felt I was ready. I made the cut in the Kraft and the Open last -- I guess it was last year. So, I mean, you know, this is what I want to do. I want to be out here. I just thought I was ready. 

 Q. The birdies today, I mean, you got off to a really good start it looked like. Just of the birdies today, any kind of highlights, long putts? You said your putting was the difference today. Any one or two holes in particular that were big for you?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: I would say the birdie on 10; that was around 11, 12 feet. 
 Then the birdie on 12 was probably the longest birdie putt I made around I would say like 18 feet. 
 Most of my birdie putts were short.

 Q. So your irons were working?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, my wedges and like I took advantage of the par-5s and the shorter approaches.

 Q. Yeah. You played in the afternoon yesterday, I guess. I mean, the course today, I mean, as far as just greens, everything, was it playing any differently today compared to yesterday?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: I was kind of expecting it to play not as -- well, more wet in the morning, but it was almost similar conditions as the afternoon, you know. 

 Q. So, yeah, no big, drastic... 
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, it was really not different.

 Q. You mentioned your coach or your instructor. Who is that? 
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: It was my putting coach, Dr. Farnsworth. 

 Q. How do you spell that?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: F-a-r-n-s-w-o-r-t-h. Craig. 

 Q. Have you been working with him for a while?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah, I would say so. I don't know exact years. I was kind of on and off, so...

 Q. We know you're a San Diego Chargers fan. Are you from the San Diego area?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Yeah. I was born in San Diego; still live there. Yeah, I'm a die-hard Chargers fan. My dad is sporting a Chargers hat.

 Q. Padres?
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: I'm not really into baseball, but I would say they're my team if I'm going to root for anyone.

 Q. Going into tomorrow, obviously you're going to play tomorrow and the next day. I mean, you know, everybody has regrouped for tomorrow. You're going to be in one of the later groups. You've got to be excited. 
 JENNIFER JOHNSON: Oh, yeah. It's great experience. As much experience as I can get playing in like the lead groups and just get comfortable in that environment and just make the best of it.
 MODERATOR: Thanks, Jennifer. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT