SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 30, 2014
Jennifer Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Like to welcome Jennifer Johnson to the interview room after tying a course record today with a 62.   Jennifer, just talk about kind of your round.   You're obviously in the groove out there.   You shot 63 here before.   What was it about today out there? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   I don't know.   I just started out with a birdie, and on the second hole I almost made another birdie and then just kept winning off a few more birdies.
And I don't know.   Just gave myself chances all day long, and that really helps on these greens when you hit it close because if not, you're going to be hitting some bumps out there. 
THE MODERATOR:   You talked about growing up on poa greens.   Talk about that.   What's kind of the difference there with a normal green you would see? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Just in the afternoon you have to be a little more patient because they bloom, and they get a little more bumpy with the footprints.   But other than that, I mean it's just grass.
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Like to open it up for questions.

Q.   You went through a stretch of five straight birdies, 9 through 13.   Do you remember the putts on all five of those holes?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Yep.   Let's see.   9, like two inches.   I was pretty close to the green.   10 was about three feet.   11 was‑‑ that was close to 50, 45 feet.   12 was like a foot.   13 was like 8, 9 feet.

Q.   And on 18, what club did you hit in and what happened there?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   I hit my 58 in to about seven, eight feet. 

Q.   And anything on the range today that told you that, hey, a 62 or low number was possible?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   I've been playing well the past few weeks, and so I felt pretty good about my game, and you know, if you just let it happen and just let a good round come together, you know, normally it does.

Q.   When did you shoot the 63 here, and you know, because of that, did you have confidence coming into this event?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   I shot it‑‑ I think it was the year before last.   And I actually, I shot 77 and then followed that up with a 63.   So that was pretty cool.
And I'm sorry, what was the second half.

Q.   Does that give you confidence, you know, when you shot a round like that on this course coming in here?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Oh, yeah.   Yeah.   You can recall those memories, and you just know you've made a lot of birdies in the past and you just can get it going.

Q.   What are your emotions like when you're in the midst of making five straight birdies and you realize you're going low?   What's going through your mind?   What does that feel like to shoot a round like that?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Yeah.   On 17 that's when‑‑ that's when I was 8‑under, so I was trying to like beat my 63, so then I started getting a little nervous, because my goal was to get to like 10‑under, but I only got to 9. 
But like when you shoot something that you've never shot before, nerves are going to happen.

Q.   What does this mean for you for the rest of the tournament?   I mean you're in the lead.   Obviously you tied the tournament record, but a lot of golf to play.   How do you not get ahead of yourself or how do the next two days set up for you?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   I mean the leaderboard is pretty packed, and there's a lot of birdies and a lot more golf left, so I just gotta kind of stay in my own little world and just play my game.

Q.   How would you rate the course conditions today and the weather?   Was there any wind at all out there?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   I would say like five to 10, but it was pretty manageable.   I mean the course is in great shape.   Other than the little rain I think made the greens a little soft, but other than that, I'm liking how it's playing.

Q.   And you've had a 63 here, a 62 here.   What are things that you like about this golf course?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   I mean the grass type, I feel like I just have had experience, and some par‑4s, there are longer clubs in and then there are some that are wedges and short shots.   I like the variety how, you know, you have your par holes, and the ones where you really get aggressive and try and go for birdie.

Q.   You said you got a little nervous after 17.   I mean how did that manifest itself and how do you sort of combat that or calm yourself down?   Do you have to talk to somebody?   How do you sort of settle the ship there a little bit?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Just try and not think about it too much.   It's going to happen.   You know, I talk to my mental coach about this all the time.   You get adrenaline going, you just have to just let it take its course, don't try and fight it.
THE MODERATOR:   Any more questions?   All right.   Thanks, Jennifer.   Great round today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT