SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC
June 2, 2012
Jennifer Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Just I guess go through what was the difference, what was clicking today, maybe the wind a little factor?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Well, definitely all my ‑‑ well, out of my nine birdies, like two or three were long putts, but the rest were short.   So I was hitting my short shots a lot closer.
And yeah, the wind yesterday, I just didn't get any good breaks, and that was a little frustrating.   But 63 is my lowest round of my career by two shots.

Q.   Awesome.   And I guess you had maybe six birdies on the front nine in a span of four, I guess numbers 2 through 5.   Just take us through that stretch, what was clicking, how you kind of kept carding the birdies?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Let's see.   On 2 I rolled in a pretty good birdie putt and just had perfect speed.   And then 3 and 4, they were both about six, seven feet.   And then 5 I almost made.   It was about one foot, and my only bogey was a three‑putt on 6.

Q.   And what's your I guess stance, I know a couple of the players say they like three‑day tournaments.   Some say it's tough.   Obviously you had a rough day yesterday coming into today.   Obviously you knocked the lights out.   Do you like shorter tournaments, the three‑day, 54 holes or it's kind of a no‑room‑for‑error type deal?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   I think it works out good, because next week is a major, so it's nice being a little more rested.   But I like the four‑day, more traditional, more time to keep moving up the leaderboard.

Q.   When did you sense that you were going to hit it crisply today?   Was it on the range?   Was it the second hole?   When did you figure, hey, this could be a really good day?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   I think when I finished yesterday, because I mean I had to go out and play well.   I mean I played horribly yesterday.
So I just was determined today, and it worked out for me.

Q.   And do you know like, is it kind of a one shot at a time deal or do you have to keep yourself from getting a little too amped because things seem to be going your way?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Oh, yeah.   I definitely got a little excited after I made four birdies in a row.   But yeah, you just gotta stay focused on one shot, and I thought I did that pretty good today.

Q.   And how did you find the golf course, contrast Friday to Saturday, just the golf course conditions, weather conditions and all that?
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Oh, they did a pretty good job.   I think my ball only got in mud on like two shots today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT