KIA CLASSIC
March 22, 2012
Jennifer Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We'd like to welcome Jennifer Johnson into the interview room.   Congratulations, great round today, 4‑under 68.   You're a local here and know La Costa probably better than most of the players out here having grown up playing on this golf course and living just off the 13th hole.   Can you take me through your day and what it means for you to be playing out here this week? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   This is just a really fun round today.   Six birdies, two bogeys, and I was just really motivated after a tough week last week, and having all my friends and family out here supporting me made for a really good day.
THE MODERATOR:   Kind of what does it give you having played on a course so much?   Sometimes you can almost know too much.   But do you feel like it's helped you at least today through the first round? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   I would say you definitely have some expectations for yourself.   But the greens are a little bumpy, and I think that's where I have the advantage, just knowing sometimes they don't break.   Sometimes they bump in or bump out, and definitely the ball had a little base, so that helped too. 
THE MODERATOR:   How many friends and family did you have out there following you today? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Maybe close to 15.   Supposed to be a little more tomorrow, I think.   Yeah, so...
THE MODERATOR:   Is it fun to get out there and see everyone or do you feel added pressure knowing how many people you know out here? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   No, it's definitely no pressure having them watch.   The support's great, and not all the tournaments does my mom get to watch me, so I really enjoy that. 
THE MODERATOR:   This is your second year on Tour.   How different do you feel this year being out here compared to even what it was like in your rookie season? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   It's so much easier just knowing what to expect with the travel and knowing some of the courses now.   Because I was limited status in the beginning, so I didn't get to see all of them.   I'm just looking forward to the rest of the season.

Q.   Can you give us a couple of specific examples from today that you think kind of made a difference for you being your home course?   Whether it was knowing the wind or knowing where to place the ball or put the ball, just a couple examples? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Well, 15 through 18 and then 6 through 9, those holes with the wind, it can be a pretty cold, thick wind.   I felt like I knew how to play that pretty well because pretty much every time you play those holes, they're always into the wind.

Q.   You said out there you've been playing here half your life.   When did your rounds actually start here at La Costa? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Probably when I was 8 or 9.   I attempted to play this course.   It wasn't like I tore it up.

Q.   Then during those eight‑ or nine‑odd years, did you play very much at all? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   On the course? 

Q.   Yeah.   How much did you play as a young child? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Well, I played San Diego Junior Golf, So I played the par‑3 and executive courses around here, and my dad was a member, So I got out on the North and South quite often.

Q.   What are your memories of other professional events here?   You were saying that you watch Match Play.   Do you have any memories of like the Mercedes at all or does it pretty much go back to the Match Play?   What do you remember about Match Play? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   No, my memory stops at the Match Play.   Just all the good players came through here.   I remember watching them on the range and kind of learning the way they practiced.   I love match play, so I think watching that and growing up watching it helps me become a good match play player too.

Q.   Did you have a favorite Match Play player? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Tiger had some pretty dominant performances here.   I'd have to go with that 9 and 8 round.

Q.   Can you talk a little more about your round?   What you did well?   What you were most pleased with? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   I hit the ball pretty well and just gave myself some short birdie putts and made them.   Last week they weren't dropping, and today they did.

Q.   Could you talk a little about the decision to move out to the desert, Coachella Valley, after growing up here and going to high school in Carlsbad your freshman year? 
JENNIFER JOHNSON:   Well, I went to Cathedral and that's about 20 minutes and it would be a lot of freeway time.   So we just moved out there.   There are a lot of golf courses and it's pretty focused.   Yeah, that pretty much was the reason we moved out there, just a focused environment. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT