NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 11, 2001
Darryl Kile
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Would you describe your health now, compared to your health at the beginning of the season?

DARRYL KILE: I would have to say better.  This time of year is really all that matters, being able to compete and compete at your top level.  And I feel like I'm healthy enough to do that.

Q.  Can you feed off the performances of Morris and Williams over the last two days?

DARRYL KILE: I'm just going to try to hope and duplicate some of the things they did.  They did a real fine job of locating all their pitches, keep their talented offense off balance and hopefully I'll be able to do something similar. 

Q.  Do you have any problems with your shoulder and elbow in your last previous start?

DARRYL KLINE: No.  I felt pretty good and made a couple mistakes late in the game, but I felt pretty good.

Q.  What do you remember about your outings against Arizona this season?

DARRYL KILE: They have a good team.  They have a team that can score runs in many ways.  They've got speed at the top of the lineup.  They have guys that play hit-and-run and steal bases and they can go deep at any time with any guy.  They are a tough offense, and it's a credit to Woody and Matty Morris.

Q.  The way they pitched the first two days, do you have to guard against getting too keyed up tomorrow?

DARRYL KILE: Yes or no, I guess.  There's no doubt this is a big game for both teams.  My job is to go out there and give our team everything I have for them and compete and give it a chance to win.  So my focus is going to be on trying to do my job the best I can.

Q.  Darryl, how comparable was Sunday's game with what was at stake in getting ready for tomorrow's game?

DARRYL KILE: I guess the same and a little different.  The lineup that Houston puts out there is a little more right-handed dominant than the Diamondbacks.  They have a few more right-handed hitters.  It all boils down to what you have to decide to do as a pitcher to beat their lineup, and you have to execute the game plan you devise.  Duncan and I will go over the plan and we'll try to execute the pitches the best we can.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT