PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 13, 2012
Andrew Dodt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How good was that today? 
ANDREW DODT:   Probably the best in three years to be honest.   Yeah, I didn't really miss a shot and I hit it really close.   I missed a few putts from short range, as well.   Could have been something.   But any time you shoot 7‑under, you're pretty happy with it.

Q.   It's still something, it's the lowest round of the week so far; how did you achieve it compared to how you played the last two days?
ANDREW DODT:   I felt incredibly calm all day.   As soon as I got out here, and I just felt good on the range, good on the first tee, I just felt calm and I just didn't look too far ahead, just one shot at a time, picked my targets, hit my shots and executed very well.

Q.   Any reason for the calmness? 
ANDREW DODT:   Funny you say that, last week my nanna died, and last night my fiancee's grand dad died.   So it's been a rough couple of weeks.   I don't know if that's calmed me down a little bit but just made me feel‑‑ it's different how I normally feel out there.   Yeah, I kind of felt like I was playing for something different today.

Q.   I take it from early stages, you thought it was going to be a decent day?
ANDREW DODT:   Yeah, we made a fast start.   I think we were 4‑under through five.   Yeah, missed a few in the middle there, but kept calm and made some towards the end. 

Q.   And it has been a while, as you say, but you've obviously worked hard in that time and just not got the results?
ANDREW DODT:   Yeah, it's been so frustrating.   I put a lot of work in but I have hit it pretty well all year but haven't holed any putts.   Had a good chat with Nicolas Colsaerts at The Scottish Open and went and saw Dave Stockton two months ago, and maybe it's finally starting to work.

Q.   And his attitude and the way things have worked for him, that's rubbing off, is it? 
ANDREW DODT:   I love what he does; I love watching how he plays.   Maybe it is rubbing off.

Q.   Has it changed your approach in any way?
ANDREW DODT:   On the greens it has, yeah.   Pretty simple the way he teaches.   It's not‑‑ it's pretty basic.   You pick the line and hit it there.   Pretty simple. 

Q.   Instead of wasting time and double‑checking and second guessing? 
ANDREW DODT:   Yeah, you don't have to look into it that much.   I find the more detail you look into, probably the more complicated things are.   Keep it simple.

Q.   Have you been focusing too much on your state in terms of Race to Dubai and career ahead and that sort of stuff?
ANDREW DODT:   Not really, no.   Just one tournament at a time.   Just hasn't happened.   As I said tee‑to‑green is pretty good but we keep having 32 putts and shooting 72 or 73.   That's just not good enough at this level.   And today finally putts went in. 

Q.   Tell me about this position you find yourself in, because you've got a very nice chance here, because the wind is picking up now, isn't it?
ANDREW DODT:   Yeah, I think we are second.   We'll see what the afternoon brings, and try to do the same thing again tomorrow.   Don't look at too many leaderboards, and pick the targets, pick the shots and execute them to the best I can. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT