JOHNNIE WALKER CLASSIC
February 20, 2009
Andrew Dodt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A good round to sneak your way up onto the leaderboard?
 ANDREW DODT: I made a good start. Teed off on 10 and was three under on the back nine. Made another birdie on the front nine and it was nice. I like the course management part. I have only hit four drivers so far, hitting a lot of tree woods and irons off the tee.

 Q. Is this a track which suits your eye?
 ANDREW DODT: Played here in 2006 in a junior event. I couldn't remember much of the golf course but when I got here for my practice round on Tuesday, it all came back. I'm putting nicely, and holed some putts. 

 Q. What's the key here?
 ANDREW DODT: You've got to place the ball at the right part of the fairway and greens and hole putts. With the size of the greens, you don't want to leave it on the wrong side as it's a tough chip.
 I played well in the second round in Malaysia last week. I started with a four over but came back with a bogey free 68. I took a lot of positives from out of that and took it here. I kind of carried it into yesterday's round and played even better today.

 Q. You enjoy a good rookie year last year on the Asian Tour, what did you learn from that experience?
 ANDREW DODT: My goal last year was to win on the Asian Tour and it is the same as well this year. If I keep doing my thing, hopefully I will get a win. I feel good. Self belief is a big thing for me. I've struggled with confidence in the past and I've just got to believe that I can do.

 Q. How have your changed your mindset?
 ANDREW DODT: I've talked to different sports psychologist and different people. Still trying to improve after each round, each tournament and each year. 

 Q. What's been the best advice?
 ANDREW DODT: Trust your swing and have a good time. Believe in yourself. I don't see a sports psychologist full time. I think I've got a handle on it.

 Q. What do you need to do to stay up there?
 ANDREW DODT: Keep putting well. I've been putting well the last two rounds and hopefully I can continue that. I'm not going to change anything that I have been doing.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT