ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 16, 2017
Andrew Dodt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Not the round you were hoping for, but there's a silver lining.  You're going to play your first major championship at The Open next week.  As you wind it up, you said, "I need a beer."  How special was that?  
ANDREW DODT: Yeah, I found myself particularly on the back nine, just a little bit mentally fatigued.  I felt like I used a lot of energy early on in the round and really had to take things a bit slower and take one step at a time a bit more, because I knew The Open spot was right in line and had to sort of dig as deep as I could down the stretch.  It's great news that I've finally done it, play my first major.   
 Q.  You've won tournaments on The European Tour.  How much pressure did you feel on the last?  How did it compare?  
ANDREW DODT: Yeah, I kind of knew I had to hole that.  Up the fairway, said birdie would be nice but par should be good.  I'm over the moon.  To play my first major, it's been a massive motivation this week to try to get there.  Glad I've come through today.   
 Q.  Your wife won't mind not going to New York?  
ANDREW DODT: There's a few schedule planning issues now but happy to go to Birkdale.   
 Q.  There was probably a feeling that round was getting away from you a little bit but you dug deep in those final three holes to get yourself into The Open?  
ANDREW DODT: Yeah, I knew I had to dig deep.  I felt my swing get a bit loose, mentally starting to get tired a little bit.  And I just had to find a way.  Coming in those last three or four holes, my swing felt loose.  My mind wasn't in the right place, but sometimes you've just got to find a different way and just be as tough as you can and I managed to do that.   
 Q.  I think the reaction on 16 when you saved par emphasised that, because it was a shot on to the bank and you made a great recovery?  
ANDREW DODT: Yeah, I got a massive flyer for my second shot.  We weren't expecting that, but that was huge, to get up-and-down.  I knew I had to get that up-and-down and try and birdie one of the last two.  And even the tee shot on 18 wasn't where I would have liked it, but just to grind out a par and get in, yeah, I'm pretty happy.   
 Q.  Were you aware of what you had to do to get into The Open?  
ANDREW DODT: Yeah, I knew par would probably be enough that birdie is always -- it was a grinding par on the last, as well, 4-iron in for my third shot with a left-to-right wind.  That pin, it was a really good shot.   
 Q.  I think you had other plans; you were supposed to be going to New York next week.  So some slight schedule changes, but some nice schedule changes.  
ANDREW DODT: Yeah, tomorrow morning we were meant to be off to New York, but pretty happy to be going to Birkdale.   
 Q.  Obviously your first major.  How excited are you about that?  
ANDREW DODT: Oh, over the moon.  Over the moon.  It's been a big goal of mine sort of the back end of last year and this year to play my first major, and yeah, next week, bring it on.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT