MICHIGAN STATE UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 30, 2007
Joel Ferguson
Melanie Foster
Ron Mason
Suzy Merchant
Lou Anna Simon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


  JOHN LEWANDOWSKI:  Good afternoon.  I'm John Lewandowski, associate AD for communications.  Thank you for coming this afternoon.  First we'll hear from the chairman of the board Joel Ferguson, followed by our vice chairperson of the board Melanie Foster.  We'll hear from MSU president, Lou Anna Simon, then the athletic director Ron Mason will introduce the fifth head coach in the women's basketball history.  Following the formal press conference, the speakers will remain at the platform and take your questions in a Q&A format.   
 To tip off the press conference today, Joel Ferguson.   
 JOEL FERGUSON:  I always love speaking last.  That way I can play off of what everyone says, or say nothing and make the excuse that everyone has already said something, therefore you don't have to hear from me.  But being first, I just want to welcome Suzy to Michigan State University.  We're kind of really excited that we've got a person who this is her dream job.  So we really feel that our program is just going to really grow with her.  It's someone that wants to be here and is going to stay here.  We're very happy and welcome her.   
 I've been blessed being elected chairman of the board.  Where I'm really blessed is not being chairman, but to have what I consider, she's a vice-chair, but I say co-chairman, Melanie Foster.  I think the person who is really most appropriate to really give the real speech from the board is Melanie Foster, being that Suzy is a Chippewa and Melanie was the chairman of the board at Central Michigan.  I give you Melanie Foster, vice-chair of the board.   
 MELANIE FOSTER:  Thank you, Joel.   
 Suzy, on behalf of the Board of Trustees of Michigan State University, welcome to Team MSU.  I'd like to share a few comments that some of my fellow trustees made yesterday evening as we were discussing Suzy's appointment, who couldn't be here with us this afternoon.  Trustee Don Nugent, who is from Traverse City, spoke about the Merchant family, how they were so well-known and well-respected in the community, and how he expects that Suzy will not only make a great coach here at Michigan State, but her and her husband Gary and their baby will also be great members of our community and supporting basketball.   
 I'd also like to add that trustee George Perles spoke about the long list of coaches that came from the MAC to the Big-10, including illustrious names like Woody Hayes, Bo Schembechler, how he's pleased to have you make the same career path from the MAC to the Big-10.   
 I'm also, as Joel said, I spent seven years on the Board of Trustees of Central Michigan University, had the fortune to be chair of the board there.  It's wonderful to have Suzy and Gary, who were both Chippewas, Suzy playing basketball there and Gary football, to be now part of our MSU family.   
 On behalf of the board, I'd also like to thank the three key members of the search team in this process.  Our athletic director Ron Mason, our senior associate athletic director Mark Hollis, and associate athletic director Shelley Appelbaum.  These three people over the past two weeks spent so much time and diligence in delivering our coach here.  Thank you very much.   
 As we all know at Michigan State, the traditions and legends of basketball are of monumental proportion.  Suzy, we look forward to you becoming part of the traditions and legends at MSU.  Thank you.   
 PRESIDENT LOU ANNA SIMON:  I'd also like to acknowledge trustee Colleen McNamara for being here today, as well.   
 I may have, along with Shelley, the role of having gone through this a couple of times at Michigan State's history in terms of identifying a women's basketball coach.  When you think about the commitment that was made seven, eight years ago, a very firm commitment that women's basketball will be a marquee program at Michigan State University, and that all around the country, all around the world, Spartans would be able to connect with women's basketball as representing the values of Michigan State University, as being a symbol of the role that women can play in leadership at Michigan State University, and as role models for others.   
 Part of that capacity to be a marquee program at the times we've made changes has been not only to do something for today but to make a decision for tomorrow because the value of a sports program, the value of degree, has to appreciate over time.  And the commitments that we made today in the hiring of a new coach are really an investment in the future of Michigan State University so that over the years this program will grow in stature and people can say, I was a part of it when.   
 People can come back in the years ahead and believe that they were some part of this building process that's made women's basketball really special.  That simply is what we looked for in a coach.  The criteria were pretty clear because folks can do X's and O's, there are lots of things that go with that, but we wanted something that would build that investment over time.   
 I want to add my congratulations to Ron, Shelley and Mark for all the work that they've done in a relatively short period of time because urgency was important to get stability for the program.  I also want to add my thanks to Tom Izzo, who always has been there for us when we needed him in terms of interviewing people by phone, talking with people around the country to get their views on what would be the best fit for Michigan State University.  Tom has been an integral though behind-the-scenes part of this process as he was for the football coaching search.   
 I think we are in a position to announce the fifth coach in women's basketball history, and one that will be with us for a long times a we pursue championships year in and year out.  So, Ron, thanks to you and all your team.   
 RON MASON:  Thank you, Lou Anna.  As well to Joel, Melanie, the board that's here today.  This is not a one-man band.  I think it's been alluded to that there was a lot of rocks overturned, a lot of people contacted around the country, a lot of phone calls made, a lot of contacts the second time and third time.  I want to thank Shelley and Mark for most of that legwork.  It was tedious, but it was rewarding because we ended up with a coach that I think is a perfect fit for Michigan State.   
 I've always felt as a director, and I felt as a coach, people who have paid their dues, have come up and proven themselves in different locations, are always people that appreciate when they get to the top.  That certainly is what Suzy has done in her growth as a coach, first of all as a player, and now to be a part of Michigan State University.   
 Our program has expanded, as you all well know.  Has a great national reputation at this time.  I think the fact that we hosted the first and second rounds of the NCAA tournament this past year is a credit to the school and the fact that our program has come so far that the NCAA trusted us to do that.  It turned out to be a win-win for them and us as we had great support from our fans.  Without you, we wouldn't have been able to do that.   
 A lot of the actual accolades should go to the fans as well, the players themselves who worked so hard to help this program become better and put in countless hours.  We appreciate that, too, you young ladies that we've been talking with here these past couple weeks in depth.   
 I'm very proud today certainly to be able to introduce our fifth women's basketball coach Suzy Merchant.  I want to wish her all the best of success.  We're going to give her every bit of support she needs to help keep us where we are and move on further.  So thank you.   
 COACH MERCHANT:  Someone tell me if I'm standing.  It's within a whirlwind these last few days, one I've been proud to be part of.  Certainly when you're from the state of Michigan, born here, raised here, played my college ball here, coached every single team imaginable in the state of Michigan, and now the pinnacle at Michigan State.  I'm thrilled to take over such a wonderful program and one that has been taken to another level here by the commitment of this administration.   
 First and foremost, let me thank Lou Anna Simon, the Board of Trustees, Ron Mason.  I would also like to thank Mark and Shelley, as well, and extend a special thank you to Coach Izzo.  You know, the one thing I was incredibly impressed with here is as an outsider perspective, I was ready for the big time.  I can tell you that.  I always saw Michigan State as that big time.  I thought I would get here someday.  When I stand here, I had this vision in my mind of what it would be like.  I can tell you that it wasn't really what I anticipated.  I mean that in such a positive way.   
 The people here at Michigan State really care about you kids.  They care about the student-athlete experience.  They want the best coach here, but they want you to have the best experience you could possibly have here.  I certainly know that.  As I got a chance to talk to each and every one of these wonderful people, they have a sense of family here, Spartan family.  I didn't expect that.  I came up through the small college ranks.  In fact, Coach Izzo talked to me on the phone a little bit.  He appreciated the fact that I came from Division II and paid my dues, so to speak.   
 I can tell you some stories about what I've had to do.  So to stand here and look at this building, to stand here and be part of such an amazing Spartan family, I'm so proud.  I truly am proud.  I think back to being 25 years old, getting my first head coaching job at Saginaw Valley State University, having no budget at all, even for recruiting.  So the only way I could recruit players and get out is to put a tent in my car, put it in the back and drive from place to place.  I put myself in a tent at night because that was the cheapest way.  That was the only way I could get in the gyms the next day on Saginaw Valley's budget, so to speak.  It was mostly my budget.  I think that job cost me money.   
 But I can remember setting up my first tent.  I drove eight hours to a little town in Iowa.  It was dark.  I didn't even know what I was doing.  I put my tent up there.  I thought I had it all down.  I had this little lock.  The lock was this big.  I thought that that would keep me safe.  I probably shouldn't tell this story in front of my parents.  I thought the lock would keep me safe.  Of course, I had my putter with me because I thought if anyone came in, I could bat anybody away.  Thankfully that never happened.   
 What I didn't realize the first time I ever put up my tent in the back of this KOA, I thought the back would be better, single girl, stay away from everybody.  In the middle of the night, my tent just lit up.  It was a train.  I was like five feet from the train track and a train came through.  I learned my lesson to maybe get a little closer to the front where there's a little more lighting.   
 But I feel like I've paid my dues.  I appreciate this opportunity.  I'm ready for this opportunity.  I certainly know the tradition here.  I know what these kids have given to this program.  This program is bigger than any one person.  I'm truly blessed just to be part of that, just to be here today in the Spartan family and to go through this process with these kids.  I certainly understand where they've been, what they've accomplished.  My goal in the next short period of time as of now is to get to know these kids.  That's the most important thing to me.  I don't think you can motivate, I don't think you can win championships, I don't believe you can do any of that without really knowing the people that play for you and them knowing you in return.   
 So we're going to invest a lot of time and a lot of energy into that.  We met earlier as a group.  I felt like towards the end, they liked me.  At the beginning they were kind of looking at me like, Who is this person?  By the end, I felt like we had a little bit of a connection.  It's starting.  I know it's not easy for you guys.  The only thing I've asked them to do is just to give me a chance.  That's all I want is a chance.  We're going to continue to build this tradition and history together.   
 I'm standing here today for a lot of reasons.  I'm passionate about what I do.  I love being a female role model and a leader.  I fell in love with connecting with kids.  I love winning, I'm passionate about winning, but it was never really what got me in the game.  It was really connecting with people.   
 Every single one of us in this room today has had people believe in them.  Somewhere along the line somebody has believed in them.  Maybe even when you didn't believe in yourself.  A lot of those people are here with me today.  I'd just like to take a minute and recognize some of those people because in the end when we go six feet under someday, they're never going to say, How much money did you make, how many wins did you have, what did you accomplish?  It's your relationships and how you've built that in this world, in this community.  Some of those people are here with me today.   
 I'd like to recognize my husband, Gary, and our little boss Tyler, who is four months, off in a little Sparty outfit here.  Gary, I appreciate your support.  I wouldn't be here without you.  Thank you so much.   
 I want to introduce and thank my parents, Glen and Maryellen Merchant.  God's greatest gift are my parents.  So thank you.  You've given up a lot to give me my dreams and I really appreciate that very much.   
 I have two brothers here who are Spartans.  My brother John and my brother Mike, their family, Jen, the three kids.  John played baseball here at Michigan State, as a matter of fact.  I can tell you we're Spartans through and through.  Those three kids of John's, he started the child chain early, said Go Green before they could say mommy or daddy.  They're well-aware of what Sparty is all about.  I thank all of you, my family.  I wouldn't be here without you.   
 I would like to recognize some other people who have helped me along the way.  First and foremost I think when you're growing up, you're very influenced when you're young.  I've had one of the best experiences ever.  A man who I consider my second father, who again believed in me and my talents before I even knew what they were.  That's my high school coach here today, Jim Anderson, a wonderful man.  Taught me a lot about the game, even bigger about life.  Any man that dresses up as Devil Defensky when you're 15 years old, with a red face and red cape, horns coming out, you have to appreciate and fall in love with.  Coach Anderson, thank you.  I wouldn't be here without you.   
 Sitting not too far from him is a man that I got my first coaching job as an assistant coach at Oakland University.  He's the men's coach at Oakland University, Greg Kampe, someone who I admire a great deal, respect.  My first job I ever got at Saginaw Valley, he convinced me I could do.  I'm not sure I was ready, but Greg knew.  Thank you very much.  I appreciate everything you've done for me.   
 Then along the way you get some breaks.  I was 28 years old, got the head coaching job at Eastern Michigan University.  A woman named Carol Houston, who since retired, was the interim athletic director believed in me.  In fact, believed in me even when maybe the president at the time did not.  I know after the fact, after I was hired, he brought Carol into his office and he said, Is she old enough to be our coach?  Are you sure, Carol?  She convinced the president of that university to believe in us and that program.  Obviously, I wouldn't be here without here and that commitment.   
 Marcy Weston is here today.  Marcy, you've been a mentor to so many young women.  You're a blessing to this profession, a class act.  I admire you a great deal.  She's the women's athletic director at Central Michigan University where I played.  I'm sure you have many proud moments, but you've made all of us so proud to know you.  Bless your heart, thank you.   
 Lastly I would also like to thank Eastern Michigan University for taking the chance on me.  There's been a lot of transition at Eastern.  No matter what, that administration has always believed in us, always believed in us girls, believed in my staff, given us some of the resources we've needed - not a lot, not as much as this, but plenty, enough to make some waves.  I'm proud to be here today.   
 I know you have expectations of this program.  I absolutely know that.  I will work so hard for all of you who love these girls, who love this team, who are committed to Michigan State University.  Whatever I can do to make you proud, I sure am going to try to do that.   
 At this time as I finish things up, I guess I can open some things up for some questions.  I just really want to say thank you.  It's an honor to be part of the Spartan family.  I truly am blessed.  Thank you very much.   
 JOHN LEWANDOWSKI:  We'll take questions.   
  
  Q.  Not to recreate an interview process, but can you talk about why you are ready for this move, for this moment to take over this job and maintain it at the level it is, take it to a higher level?   
 COACH MERCHANT:  I can certainly do that.   
 I think there's a couple of things that mean the most in this profession.  This is great.  The facilities are phenomenal.  There's no question that it's an arm's race in our business for who can build the biggest and the best.  Michigan State is winning that.   
 But to me what's made me successful and why I feel like I'm ready is that there's a couple things that it all boils down to:  Can you recruit?  Can you coach?  Everywhere I've ever been, I've proven that I can recruit.  Even when the program was not very good, even when they've had no success, even when every coach that had been in that position had gotten fired, we have built championships out of that.  So I know I can recruit.  I certainly know that I can make adjustments at game time.  I know how to take strengths of these kids over here and put them in a position to win.   
 It's still basketball.  It's still a passion.  It comes down to two things:  recruiting and coaching.  I feel like I've accomplished that everywhere I've been and I'm ready to take it to another level here at Michigan State.   
  
  Q.  Suzy and Ron, can you talk about the first conversation you had, what kind of vibe you got off each other, maybe why you felt it was a fit.   
 RON MASON:  I can talk first.  As you might well expect, when I talk to a coach, I talk about coaching, a little bit about the relationship they have with players, how they're going to follow the rules and do things right.  Certainly it doesn't matter the sport, there's a lot of common dominators in how you do business.   
 After 15 or 20 minutes, I knew the personality was right and the fit was right.  After an hour, I knew the coach was right.  Put them all together, I said, This is a person that should be leading Michigan State women's basketball.   
 COACH MERCHANT:  I just told him my favorite movie was Young Blood.  That seemed to work (laughter).   
 No, it was a wonderful conversation.  I think Ron and I have had similar pasts.  We talked about washing the uniforms, driving the vans, being the strength and conditioning coach at the same time, doing all the things you had to do to make it, to make ends meet.  I certainly think we had a lot in common in that regard.   
 I know nothing about hockey, but I know a lot about coaching.  I was very excited to get the opportunity to talk to Ron.  There's a reason why he was successful here.  I think he's a great mentor to all of the coaches here.  I'm just proud to get the opportunity to continue that.   
 PRESIDENT LOU ANNA SIMON:  I was coming back from my mother's yesterday from Indiana, talked to Ron on the phone, and said, She's the real deal, from a coaching perspective.  We had a chance to talk for about an hour yesterday afternoon.  Part of the expectations are simply not as a coaching piece but representing the university in the broader community and continuing on a number of traditions in terms of working with children, being a role model for around the state, and also understanding that the university and its mission and athletics fit together.  Suzy's comments were really spot on with respect to those aspects as well.   
 I called Ron back after the interview, said that we were ready to go.   
  
  Q.  What made the timing right for this move?  I know you spoke with your players at Eastern by phone.  Can you describe what that process was like.   
 COACH MERCHANT:  Well, that's never easy.  I think any time you move on, you certainly leave kids behind that are disappointed, and that's tough.  We're on break.  We had our exams last week.  They have a week off before -- actually, all my kids come back for spring session.  They have this week off.  I couldn't collectively get them together.  Some of them are in different states, quite honestly taking a little well-deserved break.  But calling each and every one of them was hard.  Even if you tell them face to face, it's not an easy thing to do.   
 I think one of the things I take great pride in is that I really believe in my kids and they believe in me.  It's a personal thing.  It's not easy.  But I learned as I moved a couple different times that you'll fall in love with the next group of kids and they'll be tough to leave, too.   
 The nice thing is that I'm home.  I have no intention of going anywhere.  Michigan State is a part of my history and tradition.  We grew up pretty modestly.  I can tell you that one of the trips we used to make every year was to come down to see Scott Skiles play.  It's probably dating me a little bit.  I came to every possible Karen Langeland camp ever hoping she would recruit me.  I know I couldn't shoot.  I apologize.  I could really defend.  This has been part of my life and who I am.  I certainly appreciate that opportunity.   
 The second piece of your question is about the timing.  When wasn't the time right?  I would have taken this job if they would have had me any time.  This is a wonderful place to be.  I'm excited to take root here and get started.   
  
  Q.  How about the seniors who have signed with Michigan State, high school seniors?  Have you had a chance to talk to them?  When do you expect to?   
 COACH MERCHANT:  I actually made calls on my way over here between Ypsilanti and Lansing.  I know they're in school right now so that made it hard.  I at least left a message at home.  I've worked with Coach Gilbert quite a bit.  We're actually in the process of connecting, talked to a couple high school coaches of those kids.  We'll be making some connections here as soon as this is over.  That's obviously the highest priority.  They have done a great job.  This next class, I've seen four of the five kids play, know all five.  Very excited about this class, feel blessed I have a chance to convince them to stay a Michigan State Spartan.  I believe I can.  I think they'll be here in the fall.   
  
  Q.  Ron, I assume Suzy will make enough money to buy a home and not stay in a tent.  I am interested as she told that story, that recruiting base, her background, it sounded to me a lot like Izzo, it sounded a lot like you, it sounded a lot like Dantonio.  I wonder if that impacted you in the hiring process in that she had done it all, so to speak?   
 RON MASON:  I alluded to it when I said the track record, upward mobility, movement, being successful at every different level, I think really gives you a broad base to work from.   
 In this profession, you do what it takes if you're going to be successful.  If you've experienced that, the rewards are always greater.  I think Tom is a great example of it.  I tell him I remember when he had to sleep in his car.  I think when the times get tough, you can work your way through things when you've had a background like that.   
 It meant a lot.   
  
  Q.  What about a timetable in terms of nailing down an assistant coaching staff?   
 COACH MERCHANT:  We're working on that right now.  Certainly my highest priority is connecting with these kids, getting a chance to know them.  I don't think you're anything as a coach without a team that's behind you.  That as the head coach is incredibly important to me.  I know the staffing is an issue, as well.   
 I've been very impressed with Coach Gilbert.  Coach Gilbert is a class act, certainly a Spartan through and through.  We've had some preliminary talks.  I'm going to maybe try to do some recruiting if I can to her, see if I can land my biggest recruit over there.  But she's a class act.  Then beyond that, I'm just going to take things one day at a time and certainly have some things in mind.   
 The thing about this of profession is when you get a job like this, you instantly have like 800 new friends that have been dying to work for you.  You had no idea when you were at Saginaw Valley, Oakland University.  It's like, Where were you when I needed you?   
 It's just a process.  It's something we work really hard to put the best staff we can.  I know that's important.   
  
  Q.  Your first two programs, Saginaw, Eastern, different situation than this one.  Here you're inheriting a solid national program.  Talk about that different level of pressure you're going to be facing here.   
 COACH MERCHANT:  I think the greatest amount of pressure is the one I've always put on myself.  I think when you're a coach that has a passion to win, it's doesn't matter if they've won, how they've won, when they've won, it's that you put expectations on yourself probably greater than all of you combined.  Especially when you're a native, you're in a national spotlight, I certainly understand this program has done some amazing things.  I want to be part of that.  I can tell you nobody is going to work harder at it than I am.  Nobody is going to put more pressure on anybody except for myself.  I know it starts with me.   
 I'm ready to handle that, though.  I can tell you that.  I've worked my whole career for this time, for this moment.  It's a process I understand.  I'm ready for it.  I believe I can do it or I wouldn't be here today.   
  
  Q.  Could you talk about how you'd like to play, what kind of basketball you hope people see on the court?   
 COACH MERCHANT:  I think the biggest thing is understanding the strengths of this team.  There's a lot of film for me to watch.  I have an idea and a style of how I like to play.   
 But I think as a coach, the art form is taking a look at these kids, knowing what they do well, putting them in a position to do that well night in and night out.  Traditionally I've been a man-to-man coach.  Traditionally I believe in a little up-tempo, taking a look at things over the top, taking a look at three-point shots.  You covered me down there in Eastern Michigan.  We like to shoot the ball a little bit.  We like post entries, certainly taking a look at that.   
 Then from that actually I got the next round of my philosophy from Greg Kampe and Coach Izzo in that I believe in running quick-hit sets to get the right kid the right shot at the right time with good rebounding coverage.  I dabbled in the past with some motion but truly believe with these special talented kids over here it's my job to get them the ball where they need it.   
 I think you'll see a little more up-tempo, a little more three-point shooting.  I think you'll see a lot more man-to-man.   
  
  Q.  Your name has been mentioned for some other jobs recently.  Do you believe things happen for a reason?  How glad were you on the way up here those jobs didn't happen and you're here instead?   
 COACH MERCHANT:  Well, that's a great question.  I do believe that, too.  I think everything happens for a reason.  I think I'm put here for a reason.  I think it's all about the journey.  This journey has led me to continue to wear green and white, just says Michigan State instead of Eastern Michigan.  You know, when people call, you talk to them.  The thing I've always loved is that Eastern Michigan has been so supportive of me and the program that I had a good job no matter what, whether I wanted to continue to pursue that job or not.   
 For me personally, I don't think there's a greater fit out there than Michigan State University when you're from this state and you have a passion for basketball.   
  
  Q.  One of the terms that's been bandied around in the past few weeks has been "dream job."  Is this your dream job?  Is this someplace you see finishing up your coaching career?   
 COACH MERCHANT:  I sure would love that to be the case.  I think when you're from this state, it means something to you.  There's a strong passion.  There's great basketball in this state.  I am raised two hours from here.  There's more Spartans than anything up in Traverse City, seems like.  I have two in my family.   
 This is home.  Home is where my heart is.  This is where I want to be.  I don't think there's a greater gift than being named the coach at Michigan State and staying here hopefully as long as they'll have me.   
 JOHN LEWANDOWSKI:  Thank you again for attending.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT