NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Mekhi Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








165 Pounds
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Mekhi.  Looked like you were feeding a little bit off the crowd.  Talk about the crowd out there and the feelings that went into that match tonight.
MEKHI LEWIS: The feelings were just to go out there and have fun, make it fun.  The crowd, they were like so electric.  They make like the atmosphere feel really good.  I was just feeding off of that and just playing around like in my head, just like singing a couple songs I like, thinking about funny stuff, just things like that.
Q. How much did the Junior World's experience help you deal with this being your first NCAA championship?
MEKHI LEWIS: It helps a lot because preparing for that, I was real nervous.  Feels like a lot of doubt I had going into it, until like I ended up doing good and like coming here, it was like I don't have doubt.  Like I'm not really scared.  I'm just like ready and like in the moment, like excited for it.
Q. You have a chance to make history tomorrow for your school, I believe, as the first national champion.  Is that something you're going to think about tonight before you go to sleep?  Is that something that's really on your mind?
MEKHI LEWIS: Yeah.  Yeah, it is.  It's like always on my mind.  But like I have to decide tonight because I want to mainly just focus on just trying to do the best I can, not worrying about that and then end up being in a match where if I'm winning, I'm like trying to hold a lead because of that reason, trying to be the first.  Just little things.
Q. Mekhi, if you were going to explain to somebody how you wrestle, the kind of style you have, the kind of moves you like, the things that make you successful, what would you say are your strengths and the things that are working for you?
MEKHI LEWIS: Probably just staying hard in the hand fight, knowing when to attack and like not just attacking, like, wild, crazy shots.  Just being aware and being in good position and defending my legs.
Q. You get to face a two-time national champ for the title tomorrow.  How do you feel about facing somebody of that stature?
MEKHI LEWIS: I feel -- I'm excited.  I like competition, especially like good competition, because at the end of the day, I want to get better.  He's going to push me, and I know that.  I feel like it's going to be a really good match tomorrow.
Q. This is kind of a role reversal for Vincenzo, your opponent.  He was kind of in your shoes two years ago as the freshman challenging the superstar.  What did you take from watching that match that he wrestled, and how are you going to apply it to tomorrow, whether it's a mental approach or pacing yourself or whatever?
MEKHI LEWIS: Well, what I took from that match is he went out and he was aggressive, and he knew what he was good at, and he knew what he needed to get to to be successful in the match.  So basically just taking that and putting it into my wrestling, knowing what I'm good at, what I'm successful at, and just applying it in the match, and hopefully being on top.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT