ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 1, 2015
Jimmy Mullen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Big smile on your face, your first card you've just signed for as a professional and you've got a share of the Dunhill lead?  
JIMMY MULLEN: Yeah, I mean, it's great.  Didn't quite expect it obviously to shoot 8-under first time out.  But Pablo helped me along, such a nice guy, and the two amateurs we were playing with, Miguel and my partner, Pascal, just guys.  Just a jolly out there really.  It was just great fun, yeah.   
 Q.  It's easy, this pro life, isn't it?  
JIMMY MULLEN: Only played one round, so I wouldn't say it's easy.  Got a lot of learning to do and just looking forward to tomorrow, yeah.   
 Q.  And we have been watching you for some time because you've been an amateur that's been on the scene, you've played in Open Championships, we know about the Walker Cup triumph a couple weeks ago at Royal Lytham.  How much are you looking forward to going to St. Andrews and also Carnoustie?  
JIMMY MULLEN: Yeah, both those courses I know a lot better than here.  I've only played here once.  Played St. Andrews lots of times and played Carnoustie five times in year in the British Amateur, so I know those well.   
Looking forward to playing, they are three great golf courses.  To start off my career at St. Andrews is a dream, really.  Looking forward to it.   
 Q.  Did you approach today any differently?  
JIMMY MULLEN: No, not at all.  What I done as an amateur worked, so I didn't see any reason to change it.  It worked when I was -- well, I made the cut in The Open, two, three years ago now, and I knew I was better than that.  I knew I could make the cut then two, three years ago.  I just stuck to what me and Alex and Paul, my coach, who is up for a practise day, to our game plan and our routine, and it worked all right today.  I'll try and do it again the next hopefully three days.   
 Q.  Hopefully three days indeed.  Do you think you need some red numbers this week?  Richard Bland reckons around 20-under par could win this week.  How do you approach the rest of the weekend?  
JIMMY MULLEN: Yeah, I would probably say that we got two rounds at St. Andrews, which is normally pretty low scoring, but Carnoustie is always tough no matter what conditions you play in.   
So I think that's the -- I think it could be almost won or lost around Carnoustie, really.  It's a tough, tough track.  Sort of happy I'm playing it last so I can build some confidence up and hopefully play well again at St. Andrews tomorrow, shoot a good score, and really to go to Carnoustie knowing I'm playing and swinging it well.   
But it's a long way away from 20-under par, winning the tournament.  I've only played one round.  But hopefully I'll be there at the end of the week.   
 Q.  You've got the early clubhouse lead.  How do you celebrate that when you walk off away from this wonderful picturesque scene here at Kingsbarns?  
JIMMY MULLEN: Probably get one of those chicken pies again, the short before he had and flapjacks in there are great, as well, get a couple of them at St. Andrews.   
 Q.  Hats off to the catering staff.  
JIMMY MULLEN: No doubt, they do a great job.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT