U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
Jimmy Mullen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  139, you have to feel pretty good about how you finished through qualifying?  JIMMY MULLEN: Yeah, it's always nice to finish high up.  Just gives you confidence going into the Match Play.  Today I just holed a lot more putts and that's just great for my confidence going into tomorrow match play, which putting is a key in match play. The eagle on 13, I hit a good drive straight down the middle.  I had 233 pin, hit a 4-iron about ten yards left of the pin and tried to fade it in and just stayed dead straight to about 30 foot and managed to knock it in.   Q.  Do you agree with the philosophy of get as high as you can in the seeding?  JIMMY MULLEN: Well, not many people who win the stroke play go onto win the Match Play, so I wouldn't mind finishing second. If someone is qualified 64th and they realize they are playing No. 1, you've got to think -- saying they are playing well the week.  So I think so.  It's good to finish high up because they know they are going to be in for a tough game then.   Q.  What's your confidence level going into the match play?  JIMMY MULLEN: In England when you play for the national team, it's all match play so I've played a lot of match play, so I'm looking forward to it.   Q.  Since you play a lot, is there anything mentally that you might know better than someone else who doesn't play a lot of it?  JIMMY MULLEN: I'm not too sure really.  It's just you realize you're only playing one person.  You're not playing the golf course again.  If you hit three balls in the water, it doesn't matter.  Just think, that's it and go on to the next hole, because it doesn't matter what you shoot at the end of the day in match play. You've just got to realize, if you're playing badly but you're still winning holes, you've got to just take it.  It doesn't really matter.  Sometimes you go out and shoot 10-under on the match play and lose on the last but sometimes you shoot ten over and win 3 & 2. So I think that's going to be a big advantage, if the guy is not playing very well, he might play the golf course instead of playing me.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT