U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2014
Jimmy Mullen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Minus-1 first round of the U.S. Amateur.  That's got to be satisfying for you?  JIMMY MULLEN: Yes, it's not a course I don't think suited me going into the weeks.  It's so long and wet, and I wouldn't say I'm the best long iron player.  It's not a strength of my game, but today I hit it great and had a lot of chances.  I actually stayed patient and waited for two birdies at the end.   Q.  You got in through the exemption top 50.  You probably wouldn't have tried to qualify probably?  JIMMY MULLEN: Yes, it's too long to come over for potentially two rounds, but so glad I came over.  It's probably the best organized event I've ever played, and I played the British Open last year.  I would say this is probably better than that.   Q.  You said long irons aren't usually the strength of your game.  Did you do that much better today?  Was it one part of your game that was better than another that allowed you to shoot the minus-1?  JIMMY MULLEN: Yeah, on the front nine I had hit 7 Greens and they were all 7 pretty good chances, but didn't make any of them.  Then I got a bit sloppy 10, 11, 12, and managed to make good up-and-downs which I would say is a strength of mine.  And holed an absolute monster on the 17th for birdie and stayed patient, knocked it on the green in two on the last and two-putted.  So I was over the moon really.  Yeah, I was pretty happy.   Q.  How long was that putt on 17?  JIMMY MULLEN: It was on the very back edge, so I would probably say 60, 50 foot.  It was long, and it was traveling as well.  It would have been 7-foot by.   Q.  Given your comment before about saying it's such a long distance to travel for two rounds, now you've got yourself in good position now with probably another decent round tomorrow you're into the round of 64, which is the ultimate goal when you're going to these.  So your comment on that?  JIMMY MULLEN: It's always nice.  I would say the Highlands is a little bit tougher, not as many birdie opportunities, but it gives you a little bit of leeway going into playing Riverside.  You don't have to be so aggressive, just play middle of the green and two putts because if you get cute around Riverside or Highlands with the greens as fast as they are, sometimes it's impossible to make up-and-downs.  The key is just to hit middle of the greens and stay patient. The greens are perfect, so if you're hitting greens, you have chances all day.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT