THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2013
Jimmy Mullen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How did you feel after that 75?
JIMMY MULLEN:  Really disappointed.  I hit it very bad
off the tee.  I was lucky if I hit two fairways all day, to be
honest.
The greens were -- the first time I played in the
morning, really.  First time around eleven-fifty.  So the greens
were so much different this morning and so much slower.  So much
greener around the holes, so it was hard to get used to after a
while.  It took a long time to get used to it.
Q.  The 15th hole shote --
JIMMY MULLEN:  I was a bit lucky there, yeah.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JIMMY MULLEN:  I had my normal stance in up the bunker
and managed to go in.
Q.  It was the highlight?
JIMMY MULLEN:  Yeah, it was.  Yeah, I was more happy with
that one than the one on 18 yesterday.
Q.  Were you thinking of the silver medal at all between you
and Matt this morning?
JIMMY MULLEN:  No, I just wanted to finish high up as
well as I could on the leaderboard.  I was tied for the lead going
into today, and you can -- it's so tough out there, you can make
any numbers out there.  I thought if I could put a decent round
together and a decent one tomorrow I would have a chance, but it
did not happen.
Q.  The 68 that we had this morning, do you think that could
be good today?
JIMMY MULLEN:  The wind is definitely picking up.  I know
we played the first six holes and not a breath of wind.  It was
easy this morning and the greens were a lot slower, so you could
actually be a little aggressive over the putts.  I didn't get used
to it all day.  I think Sergio is doing well.  He wasn't off that
late.  So he could be, yeah.
Q.  Did you enjoy it?
JIMMY MULLEN:  I'm not enjoying it that much at the
moment.  I'm playing very bad.  Yes, just a great experience, and
I can't wait to hopefully come back one time soon.
Q.  On 18, did you know where you stood?
JIMMY MULLEN:  Yeah, I had a look on 17th green where I
had about a 25-footer for birdie, and knew I was tied for 69th at
plus-8.
Q.  What was the feeling?  Relief?
JIMMY MULLEN:  I was just glad I had two putts, to be
honest.  I just touched it and it managed to creep in the side.
It was good.
Q.  How do you feel on the weekend when some quite
high-profile players haven't made it?
JIMMY MULLEN:  Obviously you're looking and saying, wow,
I finished higher than them.  But I'm set the standard pretty
high, so I wasn't really worrying about them; I was worrying about
what I'm doing, than finishing half the leaderboard.  They've had
bad weeks, I'm sure, probably beat me every other time in every
other tournament.  This didn't really matter, to be honest, I
didn't think about that.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JIMMY MULLEN:  My dad is fully Scottish.  My dad's side
of the family is really big.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JIMMY MULLEN:  Just outside Kilmarnock.
Q.  His name?
JIMMY MULLEN:  Huey.
Q.  He's Scottish?
JIMMY MULLEN:  I think he tries, but we're not having any
luck.
Q.  Can we just go back to that bunker shot.
JIMMY MULLEN:  Left foot was out.  Right foot was just
in.  I managed to get a good stance on my right foot.
Q.  And how far was it?
JIMMY MULLEN:  It was about 25 yards to the pin.
Q.  Who are you staying with this week?
JIMMY MULLEN:  North Berwick, got a flat in North Berwick
with my caddie and a few friends.
Q.  What's the name of your caddie?
JIMMY MULLEN:  Alex Howie from St. Andrews.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JIMMY MULLEN:  Yeah, he normally caddies at St. Andrews,
but he's helping me out this year because he's friend with my
coach Ian .  He's carried a few times this year.
Q.  (Inaudible.)
JIMMY MULLEN:  I've tried, but -- I shot level first
round, but I was 6-over the next round, I missed the cut.
Q.  You're staying with friends, is that a help or hindrance?
JIMMY MULLEN:  Really, they're just there to settle me
down.  Obviously it helps.  I definitely see them on the course.
Just makes you feel good some people supporting me out there,
instead of Tiger Woods.
Q.  And through the week, you have met a few big names.  What
kind of --
JIMMY MULLEN:  Yeah, it's been friendly.  Asking what my
plans are, what I expect to do and what I want to do.  They've
been really helpful.  K.J. --
Q.  Anyone in particular?
JIMMY MULLEN:  K.J. was really nice to me.  Gave me a few
bunker tips and that was nice of him.  And Freddy was just a nice
guy.  They've been a good help, yeah.
Q.  What are your plans for the next year or two?
JIMMY MULLEN:  Definitely going to stay amateur, I want
to try one play more cup, if not two.  We'll wait and see what
happens. 
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT