MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: STP 500
March 24, 2019
Chase Elliott
Brad Keselowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Chase, second place today. You made so few changes to that car all day long. I know it was close. What did you need to get Brad at the end?   
CHASE ELLIOTT: I don't know. It's really tough. Our NAPA Camaro was good. I felt like we were about as even with him as we could be. There was a little ‑‑ I felt like when he did get the lead, there was a little advantage to being out front, being able to work traffic your way and kind of play off it and whatnot.   
But yeah, just‑‑ I tried to move up there at the end, and I don't know if I could have got to him. Maybe if I moved up a little sooner maybe. But I tried to get to him there in 3. I was pretty well content on moving him out of the way. But maybe next time.   
   
 Q. The smoke is still coming off the car, the American flag still in the window, as close as you can get to a Penske perfect type day, led all but 54 laps here at Martinsville.   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: I don't know where I'm supposed to be.  
   
 Q. You're right where you're supposed to be, up on the front stretch with the fans celebrating. What a day of execution.   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Yeah, it was. The car was really good. This Ford Mustang, Ford worked really hard in the off‑season to build these cars and make them real strong, and so far, so good. Just a great day for our team. Awesome execution on pit road, and big credit to Doug Yates and all the engine stuff. Those guys worked really hard. But just one of those days you dream of as a race car driver where you've got a great car.   
I don't know if we were as good as the 9 car, Chase Elliott. He was really strong, but he passed me there with about 200 to go, and I watched him and studied him and kind of broke it down and knew what I had to do to hold him off with that fast of a car, and we were able to pull it of that last run with the Reese/Draw Tite Ford.  
   
 Q. Several runs, no adjustments, and then the wedge adjustment. How important was that to dial this car back in?  
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Yeah, as the temps are cooling off, the track was losing its rubber, and we were just losing grip. We weren't as good as we needed to be there, and so Paul was working on it to do the best we can, and that's what this team does, they never give up, and I'm really, really proud of them.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT