MONSTER ENERGY NASCAR CUP SERIES: CAN-AM 500
November 11, 2018
Brad Keselowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're going to go ahead and get started with our post‑race media availability. We're now joined by Brad Keselowski, driver of the No.2 Miller Lite Ford.   
   
 Q. I have a technical question.   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Go ahead.  
   
 Q. Maybe I can clear up some confusion from my side. We saw a lot of problems with other drivers with tires. First of all, what's your tire situation, and according to the media release of Goodyear, they gave recommendation how much pressure you run in the tire. Is your team following this recommendation, or you make your own calculation for tire pressure?   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Do you drive 45 miles an hour on a divided highway every time? Do you never go over the speed limit? Do you know American speed limits?   
   
 Q. No, I don't.   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Okay, yeah. Then you might get the analogy I'm trying to say. There is not a single team following the Goodyear recommendations, so yeah, I'm pretty sure that that is just one of those things in the book.   
So I think that answers that question.   
But the other question was about whether changing the tire compound made a difference? Was that what the other question was? Oh, we didn't have any issues. Yeah, we were really good. My understanding is the guys that had tire issues ran over debris. But I might be wrong. I don't know. I had limited vision in the car to be able to see that.   
   
 Q. Brad, you were up there on that final restart with a loss of playoff drivers around you, obviously Almirola trying to win his way in, Harvick trying to point his way in. How do you balance that late‑race aggression of trying to win the race but trying to not ruin it for the playoff contenders?  
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Shoot, I don't know. I'm the last person to ask about that. I think we had a shot to win the race, and I was going to do what I could. Just felt like our car was in a really good spot. Gosh, I feel like without that last yellow I could have ate those guys up and gone, but the last yellow ran off too many laps on me. I needed those laps to be able to get there. But our car was pretty strong, like you said, and I was really proud of that.  
   
 Q. Brad, we go to Homestead every year the last several years and it seems like everybody has got to win in order to win the championship, but you run awfully good at Homestead, you were strong in the past. Should the Championship 4 be concerned about you there next weekend?   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Yeah, I feel like we've had a chance to win three of the last four, four of the last five, and they just keep slipping through our hands. But we've certainly been right there, and I would expect similar in Homestead for sure.   
   
 Q. Did you think the new start‑finish location had a bigger impact on this race than expected today?   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: I didn't expect anything, so the answer would be no, but I do think it had a pretty good effect on the race with entering Turn 1 on the old track, which is now Turn 3, you just couldn't pass, and so this corner down here, you can pass on a restart, and I think that changes the game a lot.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT