NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: FEDERATED AUTO PARTS 400
September 10, 2016
Brad Keselowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. We heard Matt Kenseth unhappy with Brad on that restart, but even moments ago it sounded like he took some responsibility. What happened on that restart?
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Yeah, I just missed a shift and ruined Matt's day. I can understand. I didn't hear what he had to say. But I can understand why he's upset. He deserves to be upset. I made a mistake, and it was kind of crappy for everyone. But hopefully he'll accept the apology. I certainly don't want to miss a shift for myself let alone him, and when I got into the corner, I just missed the corner. I was trying to get it in gear and missed the corner and got him, and it looks like it must have cut his tire down, so apologies to him and his team. That's not what anybody wants to see, including myself. 
But as far as the rest of the day is concerned, I thought it was just a hard‑fought Richmond night race and a lot of yellows there at the end and hard to keep up with. The 11 and 78 ran a great race and so did Larson there at the end. We finished right behind him, just wish I could have cleaned up a few mistakes and maybe could have snuck in a win. We just needed a little bit more.

Q. You'll go into the Chase off a fourth‑place finish here, four wins. Where do you see the state of this team as you get to the playoffs?
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Yeah, you know, I've stopped worrying about all that stuff. We've come into this thing with the most wins in 2014 and a lot of momentum, and I felt like we had some ups and downs. We came in last year with one win, and it all comes down to just the same things. This is a dynamic environment. What you've done in the past is not necessarily representative of what you're going to see in the future or what you're going to be able to do in the future. So you've got to keep working and keep your eyes in the windshield, not in the mirror. Momentum is great and it makes you feel good, but it's a tricky thing to get caught up in it.

Q. We've seen a lot of history between you and your teammate and that 20 car. Do you anticipate anything here down the road?
BRAD KESELOWSKI: You know, it's racing. Anything is possible. All I can say is I got into him, it's my fault, and it didn't help any part of our day, I can promise you that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT