NASCAR SPRINT CUP SERIES: 5-HOUR ENERGY 301
July 19, 2015
Dale Earnhardt, Jr.
Brad Keselowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 THE MODERATOR:   We are now joined by our second‑place finisher, Brad Keselowski.   Brad, tell us about your race today. 
  BRAD KESELOWSKI:   Really fast car.   Led a lot of laps.   Very proud of the team for bringing me two fast cars these past two weekends.   It's a joy to drive cars that fast.
  THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions.  
 Q.   Are you wiped out, frustrated? 
  BRAD KESELOWSKI:   Ready to go home.   Ready to go home.  
 Q.   Should you have taken four on that last pit stop? 
  BRAD KESELOWSKI:   Really didn't matter.   Hard to say.   It is what it is.  
 Q.   Penske has done really well here.   What about this track has gone so well for this race team? 
  BRAD KESELOWSKI:   We got really fast cars.   That's the backbone of performance in this sport, having really fast cars.   We had an exceptionally fast car here today.   Really proud to have another one here.  
 Q.   I heard you talking a lot about lap traffic during the race.   Were you catching them at the right time or were they not giving you any room? 
  BRAD KESELOWSKI:   Lap traffic was a bit of a struggle for everyone, some more than others.   It's part of the game.  
 Q.   Three wins in four races.   If Kyle keeps this up, how hard would he be to beat in the Chase?
  BRAD KESELOWSKI:   He's good, but we're a good team, too.   I feel like we can beat him. 
  THE MODERATOR:   Thanks for joining us, Brad. 
  BRAD KESELOWSKI:   Thank you. 
  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Dale Earnhardt Jr. Do you want to talk about your race today? 
  DALE EARNHARDT JR.:   It was hot out there.   It was fun.   The car didn't really drive that great.   We tried to get it better during the race.   We had some engine issues.   I saw some stuff with the gauges that were way off.   We were getting beat down the straightaway all day, even by the Hendrick stuff.   Guys will go back and see what's wrong. 
  I was real tight in the center early in the race.   We could improve on that on the first couple adjustments.   Then it started tightening up real fast towards the last half of the race.   We couldn't keep up with how tight it was getting. 
  I was shearing on throttle, real loose on throttle.   I felt that, too.   Real frustrating to drive.   Got to drive hard here.   Tough day.   A lot of hard work. 
  THE MODERATOR:   We'll go ahead and open it up to questions.  
 Q.   A lot of teams are targeting this race as a test, last remaining track that's going to be in the Chase as well.   The temperatures were so hot today.   Probably won't be like that in September.   Does that change your approach at all?   Are you concerned? 
  DALE EARNHARDT JR.:   Not really.   More concerned about going from yesterday to today, how different the car would be today.   We practiced and got some great notes yesterday.   That will be more similar to when we come back. 
  I'm more concerned that we don't have speed.   We ran fifth, but I didn't like the car at all.   My teammates didn't have a lot of great speed.   So as a whole, we need to really work hard, try to come here a little stronger next time.  
 Q.   Dale, they mentioned you have a record for the most top 5s here without a win.   Is that more frustrating or something to build off of?
  DALE EARNHARDT JR.:   I figured.   Seem like I run in the top 5 or top 10 every damn time we come here.   I'm always like the third, fourth, fifth best car.   I'm never like the 2, the 18, the 4, the 11.   That is very frustrating. 
  But at the same time, you know, I got to say something about my ability and the team's ability.   I take a lot of pride in having a good, positive statistic like that.   But it sure would be nice to hold the lobster and do all the fun stuff they do in Victory Lane. 
  THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, Dale, for joining us today. 
  DALE EARNHARDT JR.:   Take it easy.    
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT