NASCAR CUP SERIES: FIREKEEPERS CASINO 400
August 8, 2020
Brad Keselowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Brad, congratulations on the second‑place finish. I know it wasn't the win at your home track, but walk us through that final overtime there.   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Yeah, we got a good launch and just not quite strong enough to keep up with Kevin. He was really fast, and I got a little tight. Just couldn't really do anything there. But gave it my best and I'm proud of my team for the effort we put in today and this weekend, but just one spot short.   
   
 Q. I know you don't like double‑file restarts, but since they do exist, do you like how the choose rule played into them today?   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Yeah, there were parts I liked and there were parts I didn't like. I'm kind of agnostic to be honest. I thought at the front, it seemed to be a little fun, something kind of different. It's one of those things where I think it's just‑‑ when you eat chocolate you want vanilla sometimes; it felt different and different was kind of fun. There was other parts where I was kind of a little questioning about it. Overall I'm kind of neutral on it.   
   
 Q. Talking about that choose rule, we had guys come from fifth, third, etcetera on the inside and be able to take the lead. Do you think going back into the race tomorrow at the same place you'll see more guys in second or third consider diving down and testing the inside lane?  
BRAD KESELOWSKI: It's possible. It's just a different dynamic for sure and opens up some different opportunities. We're all kind of learning together how that plays out. This was a first time on a bigger track or a 550 rules package track that we've seen this, and so it definitely changed a little bit of the race. I'm not confident to say whether it was better or worse, just felt a little bit different to me. Which it should feel different; that's kind of the point. If it wasn't a little different, then why would we do it?   
I thought there were times when it was interesting, there were times where I was kind of like, hmm, I don't know. Overall, like I said, I'm kind of agnostic.  
   
 Q. Do you guys know where you were trailing Harvick today? He was so strong. Is there anything you can do to try to beat him tomorrow?   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Yeah, he just runs through the straightaways so fast, and he's pretty much equal to where we are in the corners. You know, they just really got it dialed in right now.   
   
 Q. Is it more rewarding or is it frustrating to finish second here when this has been so top on your priority list for your whole career?   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Well, I'm not going to sit here and complain about it. I could be sitting 35th right now with a wadded up race car. It certainly beats that. But you know, I've heard this analogy over and over again that when you go to the Olympics, the best thing that can happen to you is you win the gold and the worst thing that can happen to you is not that you don't place or not that you place with a bronze, it's when you get silver because silver is when you knew you were so close. The guy who gets bronze or the woman who gets bronze, they're just happy because they got a medal, and of course the person that gets gold, they're happy because they got gold, but it's the person with the silver medal who wonders because they were so close to their goal and their dream. In some ways there's some pain in that because you can see it, you can taste it, you can feel it, you know you're right there. In other ways I try to remain reflective and positive about the overall positive day that we had.   
   
 Q. That said, is it encouraging then for tomorrow's race?   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Oh, absolutely. There's a lot of cars that I thought we were pretty equal to, maybe a touch better, maybe a touch worse, depending on who you ask, and we beat all those guys. But at no time did I think us or anyone else was better than the 4.   
   
 Q. Approaching that last restart there, you guys knew that Kevin Harvick had one of the best cars. What did you think you needed to do, and what would you do differently if you had one more shot at it?   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Well, I actually was watching a replay when you guys logged in just to see that. I had like three ideas, and I watched the replay and none of them would have worked. At the moment, there was nothing I feel like I could have done differently other than just be a little faster or have a little more speed. Kind of stuck right there.   
   
 Q. With the Daytona road course coming up and Team Penske just having a wide swath of different cars, have you leaned on anybody in the organization from the IMSA side or have you guys been doing any type of training in that fashion?   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Yeah, those cars are so much different that the Team Penske IMSA drivers are on that I'm not sure that there's anything I can really take away from that. You know, I think in some forms, we're all expecting it to rain because we're going to run the race in Florida at 3:00 or 4:00 in August. I think it's like a 99.9 percent chance it'll rain, and there's no simulator and no practice that simulates that. It's kind of like‑‑  
   
 Q. Leave it up to chance?   
BRAD KESELOWSKI: Yeah, there's not a lot we're going to do.   
THE MODERATOR: Brad, thank you so much for taking the time. Congratulations, and hopefully we'll see you back here tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT