INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 19, 2019
Juan Sebastian Cabal
Robert Farah
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CABAL-FARAH/Klaasen-Venus
6-1, 6-3
Q. You were always able to find the answer this week.
ROBERT FARAH: For me, we had an early match point, which was 4-2, 40-all.  I knew if we got that point, it would have been really, really tough for them to come back.  It would have been nice and more relaxing for us to be a double break up.  As long as we don't get that no-ad, we go 4-3, we got Love-40 down.
I kept repeating myself, If we come back from this game, we got it.  Let's focus to come back from this game.  I feel like when you win tournaments, things go your way.  That's the way it is.
I don't know what it is.  I don't know how to explain it, but sometimes, some tournaments, you do the same things and it doesn't go your way.  It's as simple as that.
The ball that Melo missed yesterday by one little inch touches the line.  The Bryans, whatever, they make it.  When it's yours, it's yours, I guess.
Q. Do you tell yourselves anything specifically when you're down in the tiebreaker?  How do you stay mentally in it?
JUAN SEBASTIAN CABAL: We just keep fighting, keep fighting point by point.  It's a law we have:  Just keep going point by point.  That's it.  If they're winners, they're winners.
We just focus, try to give us another chance.  That's it.  We know we got the level, can beat anyone.  That's what we focus on.  As long as we do it, obviously we came back from amazing 7-2 down against the Bryans.  Like Rob said, other tournament can be 10-2, like that.  Keep fighting, that's it.
Obviously here in Rome was special tournament for us, I guess.  Coming our way.
Q. You repeat another Masters 1000.  What does that mean for your partnership?
ROBERT FARAH: For me, every time you win a 1000 event, it's something special.  No words to describe it basically.  To go back-to-back, it's even more impressive for our confidence.
The way I see it, to win any event of the ATP back-to-back is impressive.  A 1000 event is even more impressive.  It just builds up your confidence.  As a team, it shows you the work is paying off.
I mean, we had rough tournaments where things weren't going our way.  We were still putting the work.  When you put the work, it's a matter of keep fighting.
Q. Who was here with you this week, coach?
JUAN SEBASTIAN CABAL: Jeff Coetzee  from South Africa has been with us since 2014.  I think he's very important member of our team.  All credit to him.  He's making amazing job with us.
Obviously this is a title for him.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT