THE RYDER CUP
October 1, 2010
Ross Fisher
Rory McIlroy
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. When we spoke earlier on, you were excited about the prospects of the first tee, tell us what it was like when you got there. 
 RORY McILROY: It was unbelievable. I never experienced anything like that at a golf tournament before. I was just happy to make contact with it down the first and had a good partner to rely on that won the first hole for us. 

 Q. How nervous were you on the first tee? Just try and describe for us what it feels like. 
 ROSS FISHER: Pretty similar to what Rory said. It was great being paired with Poults. He warned me what it would be like. We had a good, long chat walking up to the tee. I was prepared for it but like Rors said, nothing can prepare you for that roar, and to have one say, there's only one Ross Fisher and come on Europe, it was pretty amazing. 
 Goal No. 1 was to get the ball on the tee peg and I managed to do it the first time and I was quite pleased. Didn't hit the greatest of tee shots but fortunately won the hole with a 4, so got off to a good start. 

 Q. How are you feeling about the way you've played so far? 
 RORY McILROY: I've played okay. I've hit some nice shots but I mean it was so difficult the first few holes, and you know, even like I hit two great shots on the second and had a tricky little third shot, and it was just made a lot trickier because the fairway was so wet and if you mis-hit it slightly, it can make you look very silly. 
 Hopefully I'm going to get back out there again. It's drying up a little bit, and might not make it quite as treacherous.

 Q. Playing against Tiger Woods, how intimidating is that? 
 ROSS FISHER: To be honest, me and Poults are taking him in our stride. It is probably one of the strongest pairings on paper. Someone had to get him, so, you know, I think myself and Poults are really up for it and we are really bringing each other up and just to have this phenomenal crowd on our side following our game and all of the other guys, it's tremendous. 
 We want to win as many putts as we can and get a point on the board not only for our team but for the guys supporting us today. 

 Q. What sort of advice is Monty giving in the team room? 
 RORY McILROY: He's just said well done and we got off to a great start the first few holes. We are up in three matches which is great, but there's still a long ways to go. It was very important for us to get off to a good start and get a little bit of blue on the board early and hopefully we can just keep that going. 

 Q. I was asking the other guys what the highlight of the week has been so far; what would it be in your case? 
 ROSS FISHER: There's been so many. You know, the concert the other night, coming down the stage in front of all the crowd, Opening Ceremony was pretty special, but I think the one thing for me that was very, very special was the phone call we had with Seve. That was very inspirational. You know, for him to be going through what he's going through at the moment, and for him to take the time out to give the team his best wishes and his best thoughts, you know, that meant a lot to me and I'm sure it did for all of the other boys. And for it to be coming from Mr. Ryder Cup himself, that meant a lot. 
 RORY McILROY: It was fantastic. You could just feel the passion in his voice that he has about The Ryder Cup, and it was funny, I mean, Monty was saying, "Thanks, Seve, thanks, Seve." 
 "Oh, no, I want to say this!" He was just giving all of his best advice. You could sense how much he wanted Europe to win this, and you know, I know we are all playing for each other, but on Sunday night if we do happen to win, I think this victory will be as much for Seve as it has been for everyone else. 

 Q. Without giving way too many secrets, what sort of advice was Seve offering? 
 ROSS FISHER: He was basically just saying you are a fantastic team, great bunch of guys, go out there, have some fun and just try and win this trophy back. He wants it in Europe's hands as desperate as myself, Rory and all those other guys do, especially Monty. He's been very, very inspirational this week. 
 I think all of the guys in the team room now, we just want to get back out there and give some Americans some more schtick. 

 Q. Each night you're going to go to bed with matches not resolved; how important is it to conserve your energy and how do you do that when you know it's now going to be such a long week? 
 RORY McILROY: Yeah, well, the good thing is we have all of the dinners and everything done with at the start of the week and myself and Fish have been having a few good games on the Xbox. 

 Q. Who is winning?
 RORY McILROY: Well, he got dragged away by his wife and it was one-nil to me. We might have to resume that tonight.

 Q. Maybe he told his wife to drag him away.
 ROSS FISHER: (Laughing).
 RORY McILROY: It's great, and just chill out and have a -- it's been so relaxed so far and everybody has got on great. You know, we just have to do that again. There's going to be early starts, but I'm sure everyone is looking forward to it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT