3 IRISH OPEN
July 31, 2010
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You're still in front, but quite a battle out there?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it was a tough day. Conflicting reports on the forecast. Kind of felt like we got quite lucky really. Some said it was going to be nice and some said it was going to rain quite heavily. You know, we had some brief moments when there were showers, but overall, it was reasonably pleasant to play. The wind was tricky and just obviously a little disappointed not to follow up a great round yesterday of 61 with one in the 60s, but like you say, lots of positives to take. I'm still the man to catch going into tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Great start out there.   
 ROSS FISHER: It was a good start, yeah. Just been playing really, really solid and obviously hit some good shots and managed to make a couple of putts and hit some good shots. I think a good shot into I think it was No. 5, very good 2-putt on 7 for birdie, and then I was cruising.   
 Unfortunately tripped up on 8, so it was disappointing, but still had a lot of holes to go. Unfortunately for me today, 71 was the best I could do.   
  
  Q. What will it take tomorrow?   
 ROSS FISHER: Good question. I mean, you look at the guys on the leaderboard, there's some experience up there, there's some youth up there, guys that have won and guys that haven't won. I just hope that I can go out there tomorrow and try and put today's round to the back of my mind. I feel like I am still swinging great and holing putts, obviously didn't hole as many today. But if I can go out there with a good attitude and play the way that I have been playing, I feel like I've got a very, very good chance.   
  
  Q. 61 yesterday; 71 today.   
 ROSS FISHER: That's golf. Every day brings a new challenge and obviously it was great yesterday to shoot 61. Obviously disappointed to do ten shots worse today, but like I say, that's golf. Unfortunately for me things didn't quite go my way today, but the double on 8 kind of halted me a little bit there after playing the first seven really, really solid and felt like I was in control.   
 Still felt pretty confident after that. Just fortunate to be hitting good shots, and the putts weren't dropping. I had to stay patient and obviously a couple of late bogeys kind of cost me a bit. But I'm still there and I still have a one-shot lead going into tomorrow.   
 I started very nicely. After a 61, it's very difficult to follow up such a great round like that. I wanted to go out there and kind of show everyone that it wasn't a fluke, and obviously 4-under through seven was the best possible start. But, tomorrow is another day and bring that memory back of shooting in the 60s and wait and see if that's good enough.   
  
  Q. Did you realise that you were six shots clear?  
 ROSS FISHER: Obviously I knew I got to 16 and I was a few clear, obviously, with some of the guys at 9 and 10, and a decent lead, but hey, it can all quickly change. I wasn't really thinking about other people. I was just thinking about one shot at a time, and unfortunately I let the other guys come back to me. So got it all to do tomorrow, I'm still in the lead and I'm the man to catch and I have to go out and play some good golf and hope it's good enough.   
  
  Q. Big names behind you, including Pádraig Harrington.   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, there's some big names behind us. Like I say there's some experience out there and a lot of youth, as well, guys that haven't won. So if I want to win tomorrow, I'm going to have to play damn good tomorrow. So hopefully get good rest this afternoon, this evening, get up tomorrow, good session and get out there and rip it up.   
  
  Q. How were the greens?  
 ROSS FISHER: They are a lot tougher. It was a little tougher, but to be honest it was fairly similar to yesterday when we finished, actually, three holes, so it was reasonable on the 18th so a lot of different club selections. It did change quite a lot, but you know, fortunately Wobs was on the bag and on the ball and told me where to go and I tried to follow his command and didn't quite do as well as I did yesterday.   
  
  Q. Did you enjoy the crowds?   
 ROSS FISHER: Absolutely great. It's just nice to be back in the U.K. and Ireland is a great place to come to to play golf. You know, they are crazy about their golf and obviously great crowds today and Thursday was great, and it was nice they were all watching me try to make a little bit of history trying to shoot 59. So I felt there was a lot of support and I felt the same today. Hopefully they will bring some more support tomorrow and hopefully get out there and get the job done.   
  
  Q. Shane did well, he made up three shots and he's 6-under and looks like he's recovered from a poor opening day.   
 ROSS FISHER: It is obviously very difficult to defend a title and I've seen Shane, he found that difficult on Thursday. But it was great to see him shoot a great score on try day and he's played well today and now he's earning money and come end of tomorrow he's going to pick up a paycheck where last year he didn't. It's exciting for him and wish him all the best.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT