BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 26, 2010
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Around the turn you started making birdies and eagles, you got to within one of the lead, and Bradley has just got away from you a bit more since then. 
 ROSS FISHER: I didn't capitalise on good shots. Like you say, birdied 10. Made a very good birdie on 9 after hitting it in the trap. You know, birdied 10, very nice eagle on 11. Gave myself a great chance on 12. Good chance on 13. 
 And then, you know, in fairness was a little bit unlucky on 14 with the lie I had there, but still had a chance to get up-and-down and didn't hit a very good pitch and didn't hit a great putt. Shook it off and hit a great 6-iron to ten, 12 feet on the next, great putt, didn't hole it. 3-wood on to the next. Terrible eagle putt and didn't really give it a chance. Still made birdie. 
 And then 17, hit a real nice 6-iron in there a little bit long but left the putt short in the jaws and obviously didn't birdie the last. Overall, I would have liked to have nicked two or three more shots to get closer to Bradley but I'm three behind at the moment. If I stay three behind, still good position and I can go out tomorrow and I think I'm capable of shooting very, very low 60s, very close to 60. 
 That's how good I feel like my game is, if I can get on a run with a putter and throw a few birdies at Bradley, he's going to have to play well to beat me. But I'm looking forward to tomorrow's challenge. 

 Q. You hit some heights in 2009; do you feel like you're playing as well now as you did then? 
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, this week, like I said to Adz, I think yesterday, and I would say today, is probably as good as I've hit it for a long time. It reminds me of when I breezed around Wentworth in 64 last year. It's that chose. I know that if I can sink a few more putts, I feel like there's a ridiculously low round in me. That's how confident I am driving the ball really, really well, and hitting my irons really, really well. Hopefully one more day I can keep it up and fingers crossed all around.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT