BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2010
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 66 today, it seems a good score; was it? 
 ROSS FISHER: It was a good score. You know, reasonably pleased with it. 3-under was a little bit disappointing yesterday. I felt like I played a lot better than 3-under, doubling 6 kind of really hurt but I managed to make myself up and birdied eight and didn't birdie nine which is a shame. 
 3-under was a solid start but when you look at the leaderboard and you saw guys shooting 7s and 8s, you're kind of playing catch up, so I knew I had to shoot a good score today and wanted to go out there and try to shoot sort of 63, 64 if I could, which was definitely on; I was playing that well. In fairness, I did leave a few shots out there. A good round of 66 could have been a great round of 63, 62, 64.

 Q. You had a great year in 2009, birth of your child, competing in the majors, has it been hard to adjust to playing on the other side of the pond and then having to come here?
 ROSS FISHER: A little bit. Priorities change, like you say, baby daughter has changed outlook on life and the way I finished last year, scheduling for me worked out that I was playing a lot of golf in America at the start of the year, which was great. It's new for me, and I really, really enjoyed it. You know, I've missed playing in Europe, missed the banter, missed seeing all the guys and playing the familiar courses that we normally play. 
 So it's great to be back this week in Germany and I've got a great stretch coming up with Paris, Loch Lomond and the Open. There's some big tournaments coming up and hopefully my game can stay in good shape and I can give myself all good opportunities. 

 Q. There's a big event coming up in October, isn't there and you'd love to be in The Ryder Cup?
 ROSS FISHER: Absolutely. It's one of my goals at the start of the year and still is one of my goals. I've put a lot of pressure on myself, because performances haven't gone well, so I need to string a few, if not quite a few, decent performances in these four weeks. If I can do that and show Monty that I'm playing well, you know, hopefully I can play my way on to the team by right, because no one wants to have to rely on getting a pick. 
 But, if it were, you know, to come down to that, hopefully I can show Monty that my form is coming back and obviously the Match Play win last year holds me in good stead. But hopefully I can play my way on to the team. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT