BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2018
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  That shot into 18, was the word albatross lurking at the back of the mind?  
ROSS FISHER: I heard the crowd reaction, so I knew it was pretty close.  I walk up, see my pitchmark, and wasn't sure if it missed right or left but obviously just saw it on the SKY cart there and just missed right, but just happened to have a nice number in there, 214 front, and I forget what the pin was on.   
It was tricky to pick the wind because you're standing there and off the tee it was left-to-right in and if I stand there, it's off the left.  At times, it felt like it was slightly helping and then straight off the left and then slightly into.  So just stepped up and hit a great 4-iron in there and was pleased to roll it in and sign for 68.   
 Q.  I think your reaction on 68 said it all because that eagle gets you right into contention after what was a difficult start for you on Thursday?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it was.  It was tricky.  It was wet.  It was cold.  You had to hit fairways and I missed a few fairways, and around this place, when it's wet and cold, you are going to struggle.   
But thankfully, the course is still playing remarkably well.  The greens were definitely a bit firmer and a little bit quicker today than they were yesterday afternoon.  They got quite soft and quite slow.  It was really difficult to get your pace on the greens yesterday.  I left a heck of a lot of putts short.  So it was nice to see them firm up again today and be a little bit quicker.   
Unfortunately I think the forecast, from what I can tell, is not looking too great tomorrow.  So you know, just pleased to shoot that score today.  Put me in a good position, and what happens tomorrow, we'll just have to wait and see.   
 Q.  You've shot a 64 around here in the past.  Is that the score you think you may have to shoot tomorrow to stay nicely in contention?  
ROSS FISHER: Difficult to say, really.  You don't know what the guys in front of going to do.   
Obviously Rory started, what, 12-under, I don't know what he's doing at the moment.  I think I saw I was -9 and maybe in fourth.  So I think you just don't know what the weather is going to do.   
It's glorious sunshine and it's warm, but, in and amongst those trees and around 11 and 13, 15, and even on 18 there, you're looking at the clouds and you're looking at the trees and they are doing different things.  There are eagles and birdies to be made but you can easily run up a bogey and a double.   
I'll take what I've done today and conclude at the end of today, see where it puts me going into tomorrow and try and do the same again.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT