BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2010
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Reflection of your play?   
 ROSS FISHER: If I'm being honest, I think a little bit disappointed. I felt like I played really well. Just really struggled with the speed of the greens. I left countless putts short, right of the jaws. But, you know, it's a tricky day. The Wentworth West Course wind started to swirl, so it made things it very tricky. But to birdie the last and shoot under par was a pleasing day.   
  
  Q. It was an interesting example of both ways to play that 18th, yourself and Ernie going for it in it two.   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I mean, I had no choice really. I hit a 3-wood yesterday and it was perfect. We had the wind in off the left on the tee. Hit 3-wood, thought it was perfect, and all of the sudden get down there and you see the flag is behind the 18th and it's actually going straight down.   
 So the wind has actually just completely swirled and obviously you see Ernie hit a great tee shot and 7-iron in. But I made it hard work, but I managed to make a four.   
  
  Q. In a way, isn't he duty-bound to go for it with the second shot as course designer?   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, we actually had a chat on it, on the 4th, we had to wait for the boys in front a little bit. He said, "I can't really lay up, can I. It's my changes. I'd be shot if I didn't."   
 Yeah, I think if I was where he was today, it would have been very hard to lay up. It's a par 5, you want to try and attack it, but at the same time, you've got to hit the perfect golf shot. Fortunately for Ernie, he hit two golf shots and could have made three but walked off with four.  
  
  Q. How do you view your position going into the weekend?  
 ROSS FISHER: Pretty good. Obviously Danny is playing very, very nicely, he slipped back to six but he's still got some holes to play and Luke is playing well; he's got it to six. There's a lot of guys in contention. I'm right up there, one behind at the moment, so whatever happens at the end of today's play, I'm pretty pleased with the first two days, and hopefully I can have two more good days.   
 I felt like I played really, really nicely today. Gave myself a lot of good opportunities and just really struggled with the speed of the greens. Yesterday I felt like I putted really nicely. I think I had 25 putts yesterday. Today, it's probably more like 32,33. I just couldn't buy a putt.   
 So it was nice to hole one on 16 and 18, that's for sure. Overall, any time -- I think Casey alluded to it yesterday, any time you can get around this West Course under par, you played pretty solid. So can't be too disappointed with 1-under.  
  
  Q. 16 you seemed to celebrate as if it was very important.   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I felt like I was playing nicely. I had some good opportunities. 11, I had a great chance. 13, good chance. 14, good chance. Holed a very, very good putt on 15 for bogey, so that kind of -- sounds silly, but kept the momentum going, even with -- it was probably 18 feet for bogey. I miss that, I walk off with double and it's difficult to pick yourself up but managed to make that.   
 Just played 16 very aggressive. Saw all the boys were laying back and I said to Adam, "I think it's driver off here today," and I made three. Disappointing not to capitalise on 17 but nice to finish with a birdie on the last.  
  
  Q. And you're in a fine position for the weekend now, aren't you?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I'm in a good position. At the moment, one behind. Have to wait and see how Danny finishes. He's obviously playing very, very solid.   
 So there's obviously guys behind him at four and five, so they could squeeze past him, but yeah, you know, 5-under, it's a good 36-hole start. You know, there's 36 more holes to go, and I feel very comfortable with the game. I'm swinging it nicely, hitting the ball lovely, and obviously yesterday, I putted very, very well. So today was a little bit off.   
 Hopefully if I can continue hitting the ball nicely, get the speed of the greens, I feel like I can give it a good go.   
  
  Q. An afternoon with very few low scores, how do you feel about a 70?   
 ROSS FISHER: Pleased but a little bit disappointed if I'm being honest. I felt like I played just as good as I did yesterday, but unfortunately the putter was not quite as hot as yesterday. I was hitting good putts but just the greens were softening and a little bit slower. I really struggled to get the speed of the greens. I must have left at least three or four putts short right in the jaws. So it was frustrating. The West Course with the wind swirling, it made things tricky.   
 There was a score out there today. Unfortunately I didn't take it, but pleased with 70.   
  
  Q. This place is very close to your heart, you grew up here and went to the academy, we just had Richard Caring in here acknowledging that he made a mistake on 18 and he would have it re-designed by Ernie and get input from players like yourself; are you pleased to hear that?   
 ROSS FISHER: For me personally, I really like the 18th as it was before. You've just seen Ernie playing with us, he's knocked it on, but just for me, and I think more for the viewers and spectators, they don't want to see us laying up on a par 5 to finish. They want to see us going for it.  
 It will be interesting to see, possibly both Richard and Ernie have held up their hands and said they made a mistake. But that's what the players are here for. We need to tell the guys what we feel on the course, because this is the biggest tournament we play in outside the majors and it's our Flagship Event. It's got to be, you know, a stern test but a fair test. It's going to be interesting to see if they do change it, what the new 18th will look like.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT