DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 20, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts on the day.
 ROSS FISHER: Disappointing, really. Felt like I played really, really well. 
 You know, it's funny, talking to Adam walking up 18, I felt like I was hitting the ball really, really good off the tee. I've hit some great iron shots and just feel really disappointed to walk off with 1-under. 
 15 I was green-side, and probably in fairness, probably should have put my sunglasses on because it was so bright in the bunker and just caught too much ball, went over the green, plugged in the other bunker, couldn't get out and up-and-down for a 5. 
 So was disappointed, three decent chances on the last three holes and still struggling on those greens to figure out the break. There were four pins over 40 yards on and ridiculous, it's like St. Andrews almost, it's the same for everyone, just got to go out there next two days and hopefully see the ball disappear a few times. 

 Q. Shoot the lights out tomorrow, that would be the thing to do?
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, hopefully. Just got to try and go for everything. I'd be lying if I said it was my favourite golf course. It's interesting, that's for sure. 
 But you know, I've just got to go out there and just try and enjoy it and just play golf, and you know, just forget about everything else and shoot two rounds and see what happens this week come Sunday. 

 Q. It's not just a bomber's course like people were saying?
 ROSS FISHER: Not at all. 

 Q. What is it you would like to be that it isn't then?
 ROSS FISHER: I just think the greens could be a little bit smaller. I think you should be able to see a lot more greens with your second shot. I mean, I think you could be counting on one hand the greens you could actually see for your second shot. I mean, I don't know, I couldn't -- it's not a bomber's course, it's not a plodder's course. 

 Q. A lot of guesswork attached to it?
 ROSS FISHER: A little bit, yeah. It's bizarre, you hit a good shot and you hit it right down the flag and it could be stiff or it could be 30 feet, you just don't know. There you go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT