DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 18, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  SCOTT CROCKETT: Ross, thanks for coming in and joining us. Welcome to the Dubai World Championship, obviously a big week for a lot of players and yourself included. Just give us your thoughts looking ahead to the week and what could be coming on Sunday night. 
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, obviously it's a massive week for everyone, but obviously it's more important for guys like Rory, Westy, Martin and myself, because we are obviously the top four guys that have got the most realistic chance of winning this thing. 
 It's going to be a long week, but it's going to be a very exciting week and hopefully there will be some drama come Sunday. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Is it possible just could concentrate on your own game or will you be having a look, obviously you'll be playing with Martin in the first round, but are you going to be looking at scores as well, or are you going to be just doing your own thing? 
 ROSS FISHER: I guess I'll just have to wait and see when I get out there. Obviously there's going to be leaderboards out there, so you're going to know what all of the guys are doing. Like you say, I'm playing with Martin tomorrow, so I'll be able to keep a close eye on him; but just really be able to focus on what I've got to do, one shot at a time, go out there and shoot the best four rounds that I can and you know sit down on Sunday and hopefully it will be good enough.
 SCOTT CROCKETT: How did you feel the game is, you played yesterday in the Pro-Am, how do you feel it's shaping up for the week? 
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it feels pretty good. I feel as acclimatised as I can. I got here earlier to Saturday with family, so it's really nice and relaxed. We have got a villa this week, so it's very, very nice. Came to the course Monday, played nine holes Monday and then was nice to get the Pro-Am done yesterday, a little bit of light practice today and then just go back this afternoon and chill out. Overall, the game feels in fine shape and I'm just looking forward to getting started now. 

 Q. What do you make of the new course, and compare it to others that are on the circuit?
 ROSS FISHER: I would say it's probably one of the longest courses we play. I think it's in tremendous shape for, what, the course has only been open a few weeks I believe. And it's funny, I actually played nine holes with Steve Webster on Monday and he said three weeks ago it was just sand on the edge of the course, and obviously to walk around it Monday and see trees and bushes and stuff, it's a fascinating and amazing job what the guys have done here. 
 I think obviously to have three holes like that finishing off with, which could decide The Race to Dubai, so it's an exciting golf course and hopefully it will prove that come Sunday. 

 Q. And comparisons with other European Tour venues?
 ROSS FISHER: It's just very, very different. It's very different from the Emirates in Dubai. It's just a very long golf course. 
 I think the bunkers kind of remind you a little bit of Augusta because they are very big, they are very deep, and the sand is obviously very, very clear and white. So in some respects, it kind of has an Augusta feel to it with the bunkers and the undulating greens, but I'd have to say it's got to be one of, if not the longest golf course we've played so far this year. 

 Q. Rory was in a few minutes ago and he said mid teens is a probable winning score. Would you go along with that?
 ROSS FISHER: I'd love mid teens. Yeah, it's just going to be very, very difficult. I think if you can break 70 every day, you've had a pretty decent score. I mean, there's some birdie chances out there, but you know, there's not many, because some of the holes, you're coming into tough greens with long irons, so unless you're going to hole a couple of 30-footers in the round -- the guys I played with yesterday were asking me what I thought the scoring would be, and to be honest I didn't have a clue then and I still don't. I think it's just best to focus on one shot at a time and for me to shoot as low a score as I can. 

 Q. [] couple of things, just on this week, presumably the emphasis on length is right up your street?
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I would say so, yeah. (Smiling).

 Q. The season as a hole, you gave yourself chances to win majors and you gave yourself chances this week, does that represent a ticking of most of the boxes for you this year?
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I would say so. At the start of the season, I wanted to improve, progress up the World Rankings and win again. So you know, I've kind of ticked all those boxes, and at the moment, I'm fourth in The Race to Dubai, whereas last year I was sixth on the Order of Merit. So so far, it's been a great season, but there's still one big tournament to finish off the year and I'd like to finish it off in style. 
 Like you say, the majors were a new experience for me this year, playing all four; to lead at some point all four majors, it was tremendous. And obviously to get that award of leading player in all four majors, I'll remember that for a very, very long time. Obviously it was be very, very nice to get a victory, and that it was in my first World Match Play, made it very, very special. 
 It's given me a great opportunity to finish the season off strong, and I've still got a great chance in winning The Race to Dubai.

 Q. Rory has made his decision on joining the PGA Tour next year. Where do you stand with playing in America? 
 ROSS FISHER: Next year I'll be playing the WGCs and the majors and that's it. I'll be sticking to European Tour. 

 Q. What is your thinking behind that, is part of it personal?
 ROSS FISHER: Ryder Cup mainly. That's the thing that's going to be high on my priority list when I sit down and assess this season and look forward to next season. That's going to be one of my goals. I would obviously love to play more in America, but my focus is Ryder Cup and still playing golf in Europe. 
 You know, I've just recently, myself and Jo, have had our baby daughter, so I'm not ready to kind of up and leave and play full-time in the States just yet. I feel I've still got a few more years, if not five years, in Europe before I really maybe play 15 or so in events in the States. 

 Q. Were you then surprised that Rory made that decision in a Ryder Cup year? 
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, kind of a little bit surprised, about you Rory has got his own agenda and his own schedule. If he feels that's right for him, then fair play to the guy. He's still very, very young. You know, he's a great potential and he's a worldwide, global player. He's obviously had a long, hard think about it and that's the decision that he's come to. So I wish him all the best in America and obviously all of the best this week and hopefully I'll see him in The Ryder Cup team. 

 Q. How much would winning the race make up for your disappointment at The Open and the U.S. Open this year? 
 ROSS FISHER: Well, you know, the Open and the U.S. Open is a distant memory now. That's been and gone, and I've just got to look forward to this week. And yeah, I think it will be a tremendous finish. It's not a major title, which you know, all of us strive to achieve, but hey, you know, winning the first Race to Dubai will be pretty special and pretty big. 

 Q. Have you gone to the trouble or been told what exactly you need to do this week and what the others have to do? 
 ROSS FISHER: No, I'm just going to play and hopefully take care of business. If I win, then I think Rory would have to probably finish maybe just outside of the top 5, but I don't know. I haven't really sat down and looked at the mathematical equations and all that sort of stuff. I think I'll sit back and leave that to you guys. 
 No, I'm just focusing on what I'm trying to do, and my priority is to play as well as I can, hopefully win this week, and you know, if it's meant to be, then great; if it's not, it's still been a great year. 

 Q. How much will your experiences in majors help you if it comes down to a tight finish, and at any stage, does the actual amount of money involved become sweaty palms time? 
 ROSS FISHER: No. I mean, I play the game to win titles and win tournaments. For me, I feel the money is a bonus, and obviously this week, it just so happens that we are playing for a lot of cash. 
 So you know, that's a bonus. But yeah, I mean, the majors has been a great experience, and then obviously getting the win under my belt this season was great. 
 So hopefully I can pull from those experiences, and fingers crossed, find I'm in the thick of things come Sunday afternoon. 

 Q. How do you rate yourself in Europe some seriously good players around you, do you think you're better than all of them?
 ROSS FISHER: Crickey, I think you're asking the right guy there (chuckling). Yeah, I guess I'd have to say that I feel that I believe that I'm right up there with the best players here. I think my season has proved that. I'm not one to stand up and boast. I try and, as it were, fly under the radar with no one noticing. I feel like a strong contender this week, that's for sure. 
 But like you say, there's some good players playing this week. There's the Top 60 on The Race to Dubai, so they are here on merit, and guys at the top, Rory, Westy, obviously Martin has had a tremendous season, obviously hampered with injury and it's great to see him back. It's a shape that Casey can't be here because of his injury. And yet it's great to see guys like Camilo and Geoff Ogilvy here. So it's been a long season and it's coming down to this event. 
 So it's going to be hopefully very, very exciting and hopefully it will be one that I can remember. 

 Q. What would a successful 2010 look like for you? 
 ROSS FISHER: I'll tell you when I assess my goals at the end of the year.

 Q. Rory has just said that he thinks going to the States will help him compete in the majors more because he'll get used to the American-style courses, you're not going to do that, about you you've had a pretty good major season this year; you agree with Rory's assessment, or can you still do well by playing in Europe more? 
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I think it can only help you. He's obviously going to be playing against the same players that he'll be playing against in the majors. Obviously the majority of the world's Top-50 are American or play the U.S. Tour. So it's an interesting point that he's raised there, and yeah, I can't see it being a hindrance, that's for sure. 
 Playing more golf in America, he's going to get used to the American courses, the setup, the style, the greens, everything like that. So I definitely think it will help him out, yeah. 
 SCOTT CROCKETT: Ross, thanks, as always, very good luck this week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT