WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 5, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Sum up your day. Interesting as always?
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, very interesting. Playing with someone like Tiger, you know there's going to be a lot of entourage, a lot of extras and whatnot. So took us a while to get into it, because there was -- I mean, very difficult to focus and concentrate because there were so many cameras going off, and I think even the first hole, I backed off my second shot, twice, three times, and heard cameras go off in swings and everything. So it was difficult. It was tough mentally. 
 But you know, it's always a pleasure and a privilege to play with a great champion like Tiger, and we had some fun out there.

 Q. Your score suggests it took you six or seven holes to get used to the paraphernalia, and you birdied 8 and 9 and then you're off. 
 ROSS FISHER: A little bit. It's funny, Ads said to me walking off 7, he said, "Geez, you've driven the ball exceptionally well today." I felt like I drove it real well, had it my irons really good and just unfortunately struggled to get the speed of the greens. Took me a while to get going, but you know, once I did, it was pretty good. 
 2-under, you know, nice to par the last, No. 9, but you know, it was probably the worst I could have been. A few putts here and there and could have quite easily matched Tiger. Obviously there's a lot of positives to draw from that. 
 I'm obviously still swinging it pretty good from last week. I think I'm over the jet-lag. Obviously adrenaline is a great things and it's going to keep myself and Ads going this week, and obviously to see the draw, playing with Tiger and Thongchai, you want to perform. I haven't played with Tiger in a couple of years now and it was an absolute pleasure.

 Q. The jet-lag, is a funny thing isn't it, a lot of the Europeans coming out, first thing they do coming out of the recording area, they start yawning. And it's warm today, as well. 
 ROSS FISHER: It's tough. It was a glorious day. It was warm. Wasn't much breeze to start off but it picked up, and got quite tricky last half dozen holes on our back side. But I'm sure there's a few guys a little bit jet-lagged. Obviously unless you're used to this, it's tough, all this playing, all the time changing and everything, it's difficult. 
 Especially after playing 150-odd holes last week. But hey, you know, I won, and it's just great to be in tournaments like this. I'm just enjoying it and loving every minute. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT