VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
November 1, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Volvo World Match Play Champion, how does that sound? 
 ROSS FISHER: Sounds pretty awesome. Absolutely ecstatic. It's been a long, grueling week, but it's obviously been very worthwhile. I could have gone out on Friday but fortunately Westy and Camilo managed to halve and I got through. 
 Always going to be difficult against a Masters Champion. I thought that first extra hole, he was probably going to knock that putt in and then to get through on the 39th was relieved and obviously coming out today against a guy like Anthony Kim, he's a gritty competitor. He's probably one of the grittiest as they come. 
 I was just happy to get the lead at lunch, and then was really, really positive, kept doing what I was doing. Even 2-, 3-, 4-up, Adds was brilliant. He said, "Come on, play like you're 1-down, play like you're fighting, one shot at a time, you've just got to keep fighting all the way." It really helped, the words of encouragement. 
 Fortunately, the putter finally got a little bit hot. Yeah, just absolutely thrilled.

 Q. Which aspect of your game do you think is responsible for this win, taking the week as a whole?
 ROSS FISHER: I think mental toughness. And I'd have to say physical fitness. I don't think I'm the fittest of blokes out here. 
 You know, I know I need to work a lot more in the gym on my fitness, but having Dale and Jesper, Brian, the guys at pro golf health for the physio is a massive help for me. Jesper this week kept me going and kept the muscles injury-free, so that's been a massive help. I think all departments of my game, I just started with a new driver. That seemed to be going really, really well. Short game was really sharp. I worked really, really hard. I've worked hard on with Roe on the short game, and you know, there was some shots out there this week that paid dividends. 
 But the putter hasn't been as good as it could have been, and I've worked quite hard on that. Fortunately this week, it was slow to get going, but when I needed some crucial putts there, was some really good putts I holed today. Overall, every aspect I'm absolutely delighted.

 Q. 126 holes, harder mentally or physically?
 ROSS FISHER: Both. Especially after yesterday, getting through that match against Angel. You know, it was a match that it was mine, and he played probably one of best fairway woods you'll ever see from the rough on the 18th to get it into a playoff. 
 You know, it was just tough. This course is very, very demanding, not only mentally, but physically. Thank God we had eight buggy rides out there, that helped us a lot, because I wouldn't want to play this course walking around every hole. Fitness was probably a big aspect and fortunately, I feel, well, I probably could have get going. I feel as fit as a fiddle and obviously the adrenaline kept me going, as well.

 Q. Does your association with Wentworth make this extra special, having grown up there as a kid and working on the range, thoughts on that?
 ROSS FISHER: Obviously it's very, very special. Obviously disappointing that my first one wasn't at Wentworth, but like I said to you guys before, times change. They are changing the course, which I think is going to be for the better. But coming here, I knew a little bit about this place. One of my buddies told me it was very, very hilly and it could be very, very tricky in the wind. So I was kind of prepared. But I don't think he really told me the full truth on how up-and-down it was. I mean, it was very, very physically demanding, but what a great course. 
 It's a great match-play course. You can be very, very aggressive, you can get rewarded, you can get penalised, and you've got to take hats off to the greens staff. The greens were absolutely superb this week, and the whole course, I believe it's only three years old, and what a golf course for three years old. Obviously standing here being champion, it's one that I'll cherish for a very long time. 

 Q. Obviously this winning cheque takes you up The Race to Dubai standings; your thoughts turning towards winning that?
 ROSS FISHER: Yes, obviously a huge steppingstone. I was obviously a bit disappointed to slip down to seventh, but hey, recently missing two cuts, two big cuts, and obviously guys like Ollie playing well and Rory playing well and even Martin coming back, that was great for him last week. 
 So I knew I had to come in this week and perform. Getting to the final was good, but I really wanted to win because I know there was a big difference between winning and finishing runner-up. 
 So to win it is huge and it's given me a massive confidence boost. I think like I said to you all year, the only thing missing this year was a win. I felt like I played very, very consistent, to be the leading guy in the majors obviously shows that my golf has been pretty good this year. I was a bit frustrated and a bit disappointed not to have won. 
 I'm really just looking forward to relaxing for this evening and getting on that plane to go to HSBC, and then obviously finishing off Race to Dubai, and like I said, I've got a great chance. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT