VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
October 31, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   GORDON SIMPSON: Well, I realise it's nearly Ross's bedtime, but anyway, congratulations on reaching the final of the Volvo World Match Play, and what a way to do it against a real champion in Angel.
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it means a lot. Like I said to you guys yesterday, I always knew it was going to be very difficult playing a great champion like Angel, Masters Champion. He hits the ball miles and no fear, and he showed that today. 
 I felt like I gave him a few holes this morning, really. Could have taken the initiative and fortunately didn't but fought back really well in the morning to give myself a great chance this afternoon. I said to my caddie, just said, right, want to try my best not to make any mistakes and I felt like I did that really, really well. 
 A couple of loose shots towards the end, but I hung in there and I managed to get the lead coming down the last couple, and unfortunately couldn't close it out in regulation, and obviously delighted to get through, what was it, three playoff holes or something? I lost count. But absolutely delighted. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: You chose to lay up at the last. Is that because you thought Cabrera was not going to make it from where he was? 
 ROSS FISHER: I wasn't sure if he was in the bunker or in the rough, and I think we thought he was in the rough. I figured he was going to go for it, but it was a very high-risk shot. You know, the odds of him pulling it off were very slim. 
 So I just figured, just plunge a 7-iron down there, leave yourself a good distance, which is what I did, and as I said in an earlier interview, I was actually going for a little rest while he was hitting his second and I saw him hit it and all of a sudden I just heard the cheers, and I thought, oh, he's hit it on the green really close. I knew I had to try and get up-and-down, and like I said, one more inch, and it goes in, that's how close it was. But wasn't meant to be and had to go three more holes and what a relief to get it done. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: And here you are in the final.
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I have to put this in the back of my mind and try and relax and think about tomorrow. 
 Yeah, it's going to be very, very difficult. Obviously AK is playing very, very well. He's won a few times, he's been Ryder Cup; so it's going to be difficult. 
 But I want to try and go out there and try to give the Europeans that have supported me throughout this whole week and supported me really well today, hopefully they will be there tomorrow, try to give them something to cheer about. 

 Q. Did it feel, given where you grew up, a bit weird being the final of the Volvo World Match Play in Spain?
 ROSS FISHER: A little bit. I mean, it was always going to move from Wentworth; that was inevitable, because they needed to do some changes. 
 So obviously my first one, I'm delighted to be here. Like I said to you guys the other day, it's a shame that it's not at Wentworth, but this venue is a great venue. It's a fantastic test of match play, not only for your golf, but for your fitness levels. I think you said I've done 93 holes now. So that's a lot of golf. 
 So you know, I've got 36 more tomorrow, hopefully I can make that maybe 27, something like that, that would be nice. Yeah, obviously delighted to be here and I feel very, very privileged and pleased with my performance so far. But I've got one more match to go. 

 Q. Have you stepped up your fitness the last couple of years? 
 ROSS FISHER: I wouldn't say fitness-wise, but I've been seeing a physio pretty much from the start of this year, Dale Richardson. So I feel that's helped me massively. My body feels a lot more supple first thing in the morning. It doesn't take me half a dozen holes to warm up; on a cold, chilly morning somewhere, it can take you a bit of time to get into the round. 
 But the added bonus of getting a warm stretch in the morning for 20 minutes before you play, and then an hour's physio afterwards, that's huge. That's proved evident throughout this season, and obviously it's helping me pretty well so far this week. 

 Q. Just your overall thoughts going into the final tomorrow against Anthony Kim?
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, obviously delighted to be there. It's going to be, like I said, very, very difficult. You know, AK is playing very, very well and I thought him and Robert were going to be a bit closer than that. It looked very tight but he obviously played exceptionally well this afternoon, or Robert didn't play his best. 
 I know that I'm going to have to be on top form. I'm going to have to play pretty much similar to like I did today, you know, try and make loads of birdies and try not to make any silly mistakes and just really looking forward to it. I think it's going to be a very, very good game. 

 Q. Hadn't you lost to an American in match play --
 ROSS FISHER: Unfortunately lost to Stewart Cink in the third and fourth playoff hole when he holed his bunker shot on the last hole to beat me 1-up. So thanks for that (laughter). 
 Yeah, obviously it could be, dare I say, a possible Ryder Cup in the future, for next year. That would be great. Obviously I'll be trying to win it for myself, but for everyone that support me, family and friends, and obviously European golf, and certainly Mr. Monty hopefully, if I can go out and impress and pull it off, then it's going to hold me in good stead. 
 GORDON SIMPSON: Thank you very much, well played again and good luck in the final tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT