ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 21, 2018
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Early on, things were going pretty well, how were you feeling, especially when the eagle putt rolled in?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, obviously you're going to face a very tough and tricky day.  The wind was blowing.  Greens were getting firmer and faster.  And then you've only Goss to look at the quality of the leaderboard, playing with Thomas, you had Fleet just in front with Rory, Fitzy, and you never knew, someone from even earlier could have shot a really low one.   
It was always going to be tricky.  But yeah, to get out, 4-under par, was flying and in control.  Unfortunately hit a poor tee shot on 10 but managed to salvage a great 6 in the end holing a 20-, 25-footer there, and then yeah, felt like I was hitting good shots but it was just very tricky to get close to the pins.  The wind was strong.  It was gusty, it was left-to-right, it was helping, it was into.  It was tricky, and then obviously 15 was disappointing.  Thought I hit a better shot than that.  Just unfortunately just didn't push it enough.   
And then just tried to suck it up and play three good quality holes.  Managed to birdie 16 and then needed a good drive off the last, which I didn't get tried my best and unfortunately came up short.   
 Q.  Were you aware of Tommy coming through, and how impressive was 7-under?  
ROSS FISHER: 7-under is a great score.  Obviously 4-under after nine, I wouldn't say cruising, but I was in control of my game.  I think I might have been a couple ahead maybe, so I figured, right, I need to knuckle down and play a good, solid back nine, and unfortunately wasn't quite as solid.   
Then I knew, I think I was 20, I think I glanced and I saw Tommy had got it to 20 and I had a good chance from 14 for birdie which just slid by.  Then obviously bogeying 15, I knew I'm going to have to have a strong finish, obviously after I birdie to get it to 20.   
I think Tommy was 21, and then I think just before I holed my putt on 17 for par, sort of saw the leaderboard flash up with a birdie 4.  So I knew I needed to hole it, but gave myself a decent chance with the second shot.  Hit the shot how I wanted to, waited for the wind to drift it and trying to chip-in from that distance, always going to be tricky but gave it a go and unfortunately didn't come out how I wanted it to.   
So hats off to Tommy.  I don't feel like I've lost a tournament.  Tommy's gone out there and shot 65 and he's won it, so all credit to Tommy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT