PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Give us your thoughts on that, 73, 1-over.   
 ROSS FISHER: Extremely frustrating. Same as last week, hit the ball, well, I mean, I think I hit something like eight greens in a row, and then probably hit maybe the wrong club off 14 is and got a little bit unlucky, stymied behind the tree and then compounded by chipping out and getting over the back. Then maybe got a little bit too aggressive on I think it's 5, tried to cut a shot in there, just missed the green, hit a great chip and missed the putt. 7, went for it in two and just duffed a rescue.   
 So apart from that, I hit -- pulled a 3-iron and duffed a residue but apart from that hit it really, really good but just couldn't buy a putt.   
  
  Q. Frustrating when your tee-to-green is not bad.   
 ROSS FISHER: Tee-to-green not bad is probably an understatement; it's very good. I missed, I think with a driver, one fairway really poorly, and that was on the 9th, but apart from that, I think I might have missed one fairway which was in the semi which was fine and maybe two, but everything else was straight down the middle, hit the irons really, really well and unfortunately just struggled on the greens. So I'm going to go work on that this afternoon.  
 As you know, it's the same old story out here, it's drive for show, putt for dough. Every single week, you look at guys winning, last week, best putter in the world, he won the tournament. You look out there again today, he's right up there. So you know, you can kind of get away with hitting the ball mediocre, but probably not around here. I mean, around here, if you don't hit it great you're going to get found out. But still positives. Hitting the ball lovely so I'm not going to bother going to the range. I'm just going to go to the green and do a little bit of work and hopefully find the key to getting the ball in the hole.   
  
  Q. 73, not miles away.   
 ROSS FISHER: Like I say it was nice to birdie 6 and 7, I don't know whether I got a bit too aggressive going for the green or not, but that's my game, I'm an aggressive player. That was disappointing but I came back and hit 7-iron to four, five feet on the eighth, which is a tough hole. And then 9, just hit a poor tee shot but fortunately I made a great 2-putt from 60-odd feet. Not too far away. Long way to go.   
  
  Q. Any more pictures of the little one?  
 ROSS FISHER: She's doing good. She's doing really good. Yeah, it's really nice to see the pictures. Kind of brings it home a little bit when you're away, and Jo did actually say to her Mum, it might actually be bad sending too many pictures that it might make him miss her, which is right, do I miss the little one, but I'll be here three more days and enjoy three weeks at home.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT