THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ROSS FISHER: No, it's a shame, but I fought all the way and just one bad swing and cost me an 8. But that's golf. I hung in there as best as I could and fought to the end and unfortunately was hitting good shots. Even after the 8 I hit a great tee shot what I thought on 7, wind just never moved it. I hit a great tee shot on 8 and the wind never moved it and it cost me two bogeys. It was a shame, but I played solid from there. You know, ten pars in a row, just couldn't make a birdie.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, you've just got to carry on, you know. I was only about, what, level par, so I still had, what, 13 holes left to go. So I still felt like I was very much in it, you know. I thought if I could stay in it to the last few holes, I know that 16, 17, and 18 have been very kind do me.   
 So I hit a great shot into 15, didn't make it; great shot into 16 and didn't make it. The 17th, thought I hit a great tee shot, get up there, and all I could do was hack it out. You know, it's a shame, but that's golf.   
 It's been a great week, and I'm just glad that I was here for the four days.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 ROSS FISHER: No, not at all, not at all, you know. That's golf, you know. These things happen. It was a bad swing, that's all I can put it down to. I wasn't trying to go for anything, just tried to chip it out and couldn't get it out, then just tried to just chip it back out, went straight across the other side of the fairway and just had not a chance of getting out from there so I had to take a drop. You know, and had a great sixth shot. Almost got away with 7 but made an 8.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 ROSS FISHER: Just tried to stay focused, you know. Still had 16 holes to go. Put myself almost into the lead, which was great. I've tasted being the leader of The Open Championship. So it's pretty cool. But unfortunately it didn't last.   
  
  Q. Any word from your wife?   
 ROSS FISHER: No, not yet. I've just switched my phone on, so I'll finish with you guys here and try to get out of here and hopefully Jo is fine, and fingers crossed, next couple of days I'll become a dad. So I'm looking forward to it.  
  
  Q. You've been in contention in two majors, U.S. Open and this one you've been there the whole way. You must be looking forward to the future.  
 ROSS FISHER: Definitely. Anytime you can put yourself into contention, this is what not only myself but what every golfer dreams of doing. We want to perform in the biggest and the best tournaments, and I'm no different, you know. The U.S. Open was a great experience, and I took a lot from there. And the form coming into this week was obviously very good and, you know --  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it would be a Cinderella story. He deserves to win. He's a legend, true legend, to keep it going at 59 it's always -- it's an inspiration, and I'm sure it will obviously encourage the likes of myself to keep going even when I get in my 50s or 60s.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT