THE BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. A solid 67 there, are you pleased with that performance on the Sunday of the Scottish Open?
 ROSS FISHER: Very much so. I felt like I played quite decent all week. Just unfortunately just made a few silly mistakes during the week which kind of cost me a real good chance to win this week. 
 You know, a couple of times, the wind really caught myself and Adam, a couple of occasions shots have gone short, a couple have gone long. But it was nice to finish on a positive note going into next week. 
 You know, it was nice to play what I thought was pretty solid today. Didn't hit too many bad shots, and it was nice to hole a few putts. It was a shame to 3-putt 17. Would have been nice to have birdied the last but overall it's a pretty solid week. 

 Q. Now, can I ask you about next week, it is a big week and it's the Open. You've had such a great performance in the majors so far this year, but there is big news imminent in your personal life; can you bring us up-to-date? 
 ROSS FISHER: Obviously Jo is expecting Tuesday, so there's no signs that she was going to come early. So that's obviously great because it's allowed me to play this week. 
 But I'm going to go home tonight, spend this evening, spend all day tomorrow, and then fly up Tuesday morning as planned and then I guess we'll just have to wait and see. You know, fingers crossed, you could see me for all four days during the Open. There's a possibility that you won't. 
 So, it's difficult. It's our first child, so I really want to be there. So if it happens to come Wednesday through till Sunday, I've got Conor and a few of the other guys, their phones will be on, so as soon as they it get a text message, I've instructed them to come and find me and let me know. 
 So ideal situation would be two putts to win on Sunday and quickly 2-putt, give a short winner's speech and then fly home to see the baby. 

 Q. Others will be watching with interest, certainly Rod Pampling No. 1 reserve, he's going to be hanging around waiting for some news. Has he spoken to you at all?
 ROSS FISHER: No, he hasn't. It's a shame obviously for him that he's not in, but hopefully if Jo does come early, I'll be able to give the R&A and The Open plenty of warning that will allow him to play. 
 But our fingers are crossed that Jo can hold on for that extra week and I'll get a chance to play in the Open, because it will be a great week and I'm looking forward to it, but at the same time, all I can say is what will be, will be and if I get to play, great, and if I don't, there's plenty more Opens for me to play in. But to have our first child is going to be an amazing experience. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT