ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 20, 2018
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your view on that round?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it was another good day.  Obviously great fun getting out with Thomas, third day in a row, a lot of fun, a lot of banter.  Just trying to hang on, felt like I played solid.  Conditions got very windy and 17 and 18 were playing very tough.
Q. You were playing lovely and you just mentioned hanging on to Thomas's coattails, and it looked like things might change on 8 but fantastic putt from you.  How important was that?
ROSS FISHER: Momentum is a massive thing out here, as you know.  Thought I played a decent bunker shot, just a little too much sand.  To see him knock it close; I miss mine, he holes his, a few shots.  The back nine, he held some putts, I held some putts.  He made a great save on the last and I managed to sink mine in for birdie, so we'll go out again tomorrow.
Q. Different conditions tomorrow.  What about that?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I've heard it's going to be quite windy, and having seen Adam and Woody get some of the pins, there could be some beauties out there tomorrow.  I'm hoping the Tour officials will see what the forecast is, set the course up tough, but fair.  Looking forward to the challenge and see what happens.
Q. What pleased you most out there?
ROSS FISHER: Everything.  I felt like I played really solid again.  Only dropped one shot and I can't remember where that was.  In the moment, in the zone, just playing one shot at a time.
Got tricky towards the end, 17, 18, wind really got up.  17, going from driver and seven, eight iron to a driver and a ripped 4-iron.
Obviously 18, two beautiful shots on to the middle of the green, and left myself a little bit of work to do with the birdie putt, but managed to knock it in and obviously Thomas made a great five.
Fingers crossed, we'll be paired again tomorrow, because it's been three fun, exciting days with Thomas and Adam on the bag.  So we'll go out there tomorrow and hopefully have some more fun.
Q. When scoring is low, you know the other guys are shooting low, so pressure to get birdies in there?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, 4 was a nice putt there.  I think a good momentum put was probably the birdie on 8.  Hit two really good shots there.  Hit what I thought was a decent shot but unfortunately there was a little bit more sand in the bunker, and obviously to see Thomas hit it about three or four feet, knowing he's going to make birdie, to knock it in first, I don't know what the state of play was at that time, whether or not we had been running behind, but it set out for an exciting and interesting back nine and it sure was.  We traded birdies, good shots, and yeah, just thoroughly enjoyed the guys' company and look forward to doing it again tomorrow.
Q. At the start of the week, everyone wants to be in the final group come Sunday.  How excited are you about tomorrow?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, very excited.  Even if I was the second last group, would have walked off disappointed to 3-putt the last, but just having a chance to win the first event for me on The European Tour season, such a prestigious event here in Abu Dhabi, HSBC, you only have to walk up 18 and see the list of past champions.
So to have a chance to go out there tomorrow and have a chance of putting my name amongst that illustrious property of players would be great and have to go out and play as well as I have done the first three days.  I'm excited and looking forward to the challenge.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT