BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You recovered very well from a poor start, how pleased with the round are you?
 ROSS FISHER: Oh, delighted. Obviously yesterday, no one likes to start off that way I don't think. I'm a member here for 15 years and I've never started with a 7 on the third. A bit of a shaky round yesterday and get that out of the way, and today obviously you want to get off to a solid start, it was a bogey, a birdie, a bogey, a birdie. Was pleased to play the back nine really, really solid. Four birdies for a 67 was very pleasing.

 Q. You've been a junior member here, this local knowledge of yours, does it count? 
 ROSS FISHER: I think it helps. I've played here, like I say, since a junior, since I was 13, so I should know this place really well by now. 
 But playing it day-to-day as a junior and as an amateur, it's a little bit different to how we are playing it this week. Obviously the rough it up and the course is in a lot better shape and the greens are a little quicker. 
 But no, I think it counts for a bit, and there's certain parts of the course where I've hit shots before and I try and visualise shots that I've hit over the many, many years, and fortunately I hit a couple of those out there today.

 Q. You played that game as a junior standing out on the putting green, "This, to win the BMW PGA." 
 ROSS FISHER: Probably hundreds of times, yeah. As juniors, we always used to watch the golf up here, watch the guys go around, and then you know, as soon as the tournament was over, I think it was Monday, back when I was a junior, used to always be on the putting green, thinking how quick are these greens. You always used to do like 72 holes and you think, right, this for the Masters, this for BMW PGA. 

 Q. How do you feel about your position in the tournament now?
 ROSS FISHER: Reasonably happy. I think if I could have picked up, maybe a birdie on 18, to get it to nine, possibly ten, I would have felt a little more comfortable. 
 But you know, that went meant to be, and I finished 8, four behind at the moment. Paul is playing great golf. I think he's going to be tremendously difficult to beat. But having said that, he's playing great golf and his approach play is just superb. He's probably the person who has holed out shots that I can remember; he's incredible, he's already holed two or three when I've played with him. He's going to be very tough to beat. 
 If he gets to 13, 14, it's going to be difficult, but there's definitely a 65, 64 out there. I've just got to go out there and shoot it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT