BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 21, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 1-under par through 16 holes, birdie 17 and a fabulous finish at 18. Tell us about the eagle and the second shot, particularly. 
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, obviously the hole has changed over the many years that the guys have been coming here. It's quite a tough tee shot. You can either be aggressive like I was and cut loose with driver or you can play it safe like Paul did with a couple of 5-wood. 
 Thought I would stick to the game plan and try and cut a driver off there, hit it perfectly, was about 207 to the flag, and kind of wanting to hit like 5, maybe 6. Just trying to discuss with Adam where he thought the wind was and he thought it was right-to-left and helping and then he actually slightly moved right-to-left and he said hit a nice, solid 5. I didn't quite strike it how I intended to but the line was really good.
 I was just hoping that it would kick forwards and it did, and just seeing the ball go so close, was listening to the crowd and all of a sudden, for it to miss like that, I kind of walked up there and couldn't believe it finished on the right and where it had. 
 Yeah, I can handle those sort of two-and-a-half-footers for eagle. I'll take those all day.

 Q. You have a long history with this club going through it's junior system; do you feel extra pressure when you play or are you inspired by the crowd? 
 ROSS FISHER: A bit of both. Like I say I've had some great history with this place. Very fortunate to join the scholarship team and that's supported me in my amateur career and coming back here starting out as a pro. Every time I come back here it brings back great memories because I played this course so many times as a junior and top amateur, and as a pro now. 
 There's a bit of pressure on me because I want to do well not only for myself but for everybody else. But at the same time, I forward to coming back, because it's our Flagship Event, it's our biggest event of the year apart from majors. You just have to look at the field, there are some great players here, and this is going to be a long, tough week, but 68 is not a bad start. 

 Q. Fantastic finish and a decent opening round. 
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it wasn't looking too great after 16, 1-under, and felt like I was playing really, really well, and all three of us, Paul and Ernie, everybody struggled and no one seemed to hole a putt or get any momentum going. 
 I hit to a couple of decent shots on 17, got a little bit unlucky with the drive, had a nasty lie and played a great third shot. 
 Felt a bit unlucky but it was nice to roll it in, and a nice driver and 5-iron to two feet and all of a sudden walk off with a 68 and very pleased with the day's work.

 Q. Do you feel any extra pressure at all?
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, there is a bit of extra pressure, but I mean, obviously Ernie gets it, as well, because he's a hometown boy, as well. He's redesigned the course as well, so he should know it as well as I should. 
 Yeah, there is a bit of extra pressure, because I've had so much history here with the club and playing up here. It's great to obviously finish on 18 and see so many familiar faces throughout the years that I've been up here. So you know, it is tough because I want to do well, not only for myself but the guys that supported me over the years and that are supporting me this week, but at the same time, it does spur me on, and as it showed today with a nice little opening 68.

 Q. Last season was a very good finish, have you been finding it difficult to kick on from the success of last season?
 ROSS FISHER: Not really. Obviously goals have changed and I'm playing in different tournaments now. I finished my first Masters and it's funny, because last week was like my first European Tour event since Dubai. So kind of missed playing in Europe a bit because playing so well and getting a good World Ranking, it opened me to explore the horizons over at America. 
 I've been over there playing a little bit there, but you know, it's great to be able to play in Europe and in the States. Golf is becoming a global game now, and you know, it's good for me to travel, but I'll never forget for myself where I've started my golf and that's in Europe. I'll definitely continue to support The European Tour. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT