WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 28, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great week. Unfortunately you got to play in the consolation match tomorrow. Great week though. 
 ROSS FISHER: Thank you. It's disappointing. But to get this far it was very pleasing. I wanted to take Paul out, but it was a difficult game. He has a great match-play record, but I fancy my chances of doing pretty well this week and it just didn't come together. 
 There was a few shots that I lost there. And when I had chances at the end, I just couldn't take them. 

 Q. Was it the break between the two rounds?
 ROSS FISHER: I don't want to make any excuses. Yes, I only had 20, 25 minutes. But I won't use that as an excuse. I'll just pack my bags and go home. 
 I can't put it down to that. I just wasn't good enough. 

 Q. Good effort?
 ROSS FISHER: Yes. Thank you. 

 Q. It's obviously disappointing, but talk about it?
 ROSS FISHER: Well, it was probably one match too many this morning. Just I wish I would have closed him out a bit earlier so I could have had a little bit of time to relax between games, with Justin. 
 But that's sort of this game. If you win, you play 36, you know. You've just got to be ready for it . And unfortunately I wasn't quite ready for it. I felt like I didn't start great and had a bad first hole. 
 But from there up until about 12 or 13 I felt like I played quite decent. I just didn't hole any putts. Just a couple of shots here and there. Probably missing it in the wrong spot on 13 there, but I should have been making five at worst there. 
 I mean, it was a difficult up-and-down, but I should have had a good chance at four and I kind of gave him that hole. 
 And then obviously 14, you know, I should have lost that and been 3-down. 
 But I got a halve and then all of a sudden he almost holed it on 15. 
 And then to birdie 16, you know, I had a chance to hit a drive like that and to find it there, that was, it's a bit unlucky. You get good breaks and you get bad breaks. But unfortunately Paul just played a little bit better than I did. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT