DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 31, 2009
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Well, a disappointing finish, but other than that, you have to be pretty pleased with your round?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, very pleased. I played really well. Felt like I left -- it's easy to say you left a few out there, but to be fair, I holed my fair share. I made a really good par putt on 6, and then hit two really pathetic putts on 7 and 8. Tried to finish with a solid hole on the 9th with a tee shot in the air, great second shot and somehow it pitched in the green and spun back in the water. Got up-and-down and made five, so disappointing, playing that hole 3-over.   
 So disappointing way to finish, but still, go out shoot 67, put myself out there and have a later tee time and if I can play like that, shoot 65, 64, have a chance.   
 We knew we had a very good chance of getting done, and then the last couple of holes, it's gotten quite dark, the light was fading. Putted on the 8th, got to the 9th tee and unfortunately we didn't catch the guys in front, had to wait for hem, but got a drive off and fortunately we were on the green. So, yeah, relieved to finish.  
  
  Q. A bit of a struggle at times at the end?   
 ROSS FISHER: No, it was fine. I played -- played the 8th, saw both shots and even the 9th, saw my tee shot all the way. Second shot on 9, I saw that all the way. It wasn't too bad. It wasn't until we were on the green you could see it starting to a bit.   
  
  Q. You're pretty long off the tee; did you get the driver out much?   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I hit the driver whenever I can. Been a bit more aggressive the last couple of days and it seems to have paid off, hitting driver on 2, whereas before I would hit iron and lay up. I hit driver yesterday and today and I walked off with two birdies.   
 So, trying to stay aggressive, but at the same time, hold that five and throw it back with a 3-wood. 13 is the other one where I hit 3-wood there. But yeah, where I can, I'll get the driver out and try to be aggressive, make some birdies and try and have a good finish if I can.  
  
  Q. You must have fond memories of the place playing with Tiger a few years ago and he had a few nice things to say about you; obviously a course that suits your eye.   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, that was great, starting off with two 65s, leading the field and playing with the guys on the weekend, Ernie and Henrik on Saturday and then Tiger and Niclas Fasth on Sunday. A shame I couldn't pull it off, but my tying for fifth in my first Dubai Desert Classic was good, and came out with fond memories last year and played nicely, just didn't really score well and had a good weekend and finished tied tenth.   
 I felt like I had a decent chance coming in here. Wasn't on top of my game after the first two weeks in Abu Dhabi and Qatar, but slowly it's getting better and better and obviously yesterday and today a decent score and hopefully we can improve and shoot a good one tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Has anything just clicked?   
 ROSS FISHER: Not really, just seem to be playing better golf. First two weeks I wasn't hole any putts whereas this week I feel more comfortable on the greens. I know how the greens putt and find them reasonably easy to read, so that's obviously going to help. If you can hole a few putts like I did today, you're going to give yourself a chance.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT