ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 19, 2018
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another 67 to follow up yesterday's round.  Was it a similar day to yesterday?
ROSS FISHER: Felt like it.  I tell you, if anything, it felt marginally better.  Felt like I drove it better today.   Always put it in the right spots.
Yeah, just felt pretty solid out there.  Didn't really miss many shots.  You know, a little bit of a sloppy bogey playing the sixth there, just tried to be a bit too fancy with the second shot and unfortunately I had a stone underneath the bunker so I couldn't really hit it close.   Hit a good putt and missed.
Nice to birdie 8 and 9 and shoot another 5-under.  Obviously delighted with two days' work.
Q. Does it help playing with Thomas when he's playing like that?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, we kind of pulled each other along I think.  I think obviously I was I guess playing marginally better than Thomas yesterday and we kind of fed off each other and he finished very, very strong with birdie, eagle.
Yeah, he played great today.  Not too many mistakes, which was the same with my game, and Robert, as well.  It was a good, fun three-ball to be involved with, a lot of birdies, not many mistakes and I think all safely through to the weekend.
Q. 67 to start and 10-under par, just evaluate your form today.
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, very pleasing.  I thought today was better than yesterday.  Felt like I drove it better today.  Yesterday was a little bit scrappy but I missed it in the right spots.
You know, didn't quite get as much out of it yesterday as maybe I could have.  Today was another solid day.  Hit it well off the tee.  Hit some nice iron shots.  Holed some putts.  Disappointing to drop one on 6.  Would have been nice to go bogey-free and talk to you again about bogey-free rounds, but was really pleased the way I bounced back after dropping a shot with a birdie on 8 and 9.  So two rounds of 5-under, obviously very pleased.
Q. You mentioned the driver.  Change of driver for this season, how hard is it on the back of such a great season last year, is there ever a sense of trepidation changing equipment going into a new year?
ROSS FISHER: It's tough.  My motto has always been kind of throughout my career, if it ain't broke, don't fix it.  My driver last year, I drove it fantastically well all season.  Obviously for TaylorMade to bring out a new driver, it was going to be hard to switch.  Thankfully I tried it before I left for Dubai.
Felt like I had a lot of progress in Dubai on the range, and making sure seeing which one was pitching further and which one was running.  It just felt like too early to change and switch for the EurAsia Cup.
On Tuesday, tweaked a little bit the setup and thought, you know what, I'll take it out in the Pro-Am, and it feels like it's going further and straighter than last year.  You know, took it out, tried it and so far, so good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT