OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 29, 2008
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Thoughts on the day?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, pretty good, I would say. Moving in the right direction. But at the same time, a bit disappointed. Felt like we played better, if that sounds a bit crazy, than 9-under. We got off to a fantastic start. We birdied, what, 2 through 7, and I had a really good opportunity on 8 and hit a great putt, didn't go in. And then birdied 9.   
 Then we were playing all right, and got to 12 and Poults missed the green, didn't hit a great bunker shot through the green. I hit what I thought was a good putt, went off the green and we walk off with five. So it kind of halted us a little bit. But threw in a couple of birdies towards the end. A shame that we didn't both give ourselves better chances on last.   
 But, hey, to shoot 3-under Thursday, and then 2-over and to go out and shoot 9-under, it shows that that we felt like we still had a good chance. Spain obviously playing fantastic and majority playing for second best. But it's promising, so hopefully we can go out there tomorrow and shoot a decent score and hopefully we can see England on the board.  
  
  Q. You did honestly feel like you had a chance, even with Spain dominating by such a degree, just because of the way the format is and the shots that you can pick up?   
 ROSS FISHER: Definitely, I think if you ask Poults, he probably disagrees that there's no way Spain is going to lose this and he said there's no way anyone can get within five or six of them. That score yesterday, what can you say? It was tremendous.   
 But at start of the day, 16 back, and Pro-Am, we were 10-under between us, and we left four, at least, out there. So I mean, today, we've shot 63; personally, we've probably left three or four out there, so we could have easily shot 58, 59. But we didn't. We shoot 63. So, what, we are ten, 11 under? 10-under I think we are, I believe.   
 So if we can go out there tomorrow and shoot 68, 67, finish the week strong, who knows, we might get Top-5, and that would be respectable. We don't want to be where we were after day one and day two, and I'm sure everyone at home supporting us don't want to see England that far down. They want to see us contending and that's what we want to do. Fingers crossed, we can finish the job tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Apart from the negatives, you've enjoyed your debut in the World Cup?  
 ROSS FISHER: Absolutely fantastic. It's been great fun. It's been an absolute pleasure playing with Poults. Thank him a lot for choosing me, and it's just been great fun, absolutely great fun. We have had a lot of banter and a lot of laughs. Terry is a great guy, having a lot of banter between the caddies, Adam and Terry, and me and Poults have been having some banter. It's been great fun.   
 You know we have obviously come out here with high expectations, and obviously he's coming out to win and so am I. I want to help him and he wants to help me. Maybe we came out with too strong of a goal. Maybe we just should have come out to enjoy the week, because it kind of felt like we suffered the first to days. So we came out there today with a slightly different mind-set, just enjoy the day and have fun and it seemed to work. Hopefully we can do the same tomorrow and it will cap off quite a nice season.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT