PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 18, 2008
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Were you inside?   
 ROSS FISHER: No, he was about 12 I would say. He was about 12, 15 feet and I'm about 20, 24 feet.   
  
  Q. You seemed to be having a good game out there, the two of you.   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, having a good laugh. Obviously coming to the end of the season, all of the pressure's off. Well, for me, anyway.   
 Obviously Robert wants to try and win the Order of Merit, which, you know, I think even if he doesn't, I think he fully deserves it. He's played some fantastic golf this year, and I've been fortunate enough to play well a few times and he's been the best player on The European Tour by a mile. You know, Padraig has won two majors, and hats off, you can't take that away from the guy, to win back-to-back Opens is phenomenal and to obviously win the PGA.   
 But for me I think just think consistency, Robert has been far superior this year. So good fun playing out there today. Had a game of five birdies in a row, unfortunately it's dried up a bit on the back nine, but who knows. If I can knock the putt in and par the last, it will be a decent day.  
  
  Q. Whatever happens this afternoon, it's going to be an exciting day tomorrow, isn't it?  
 ROSS FISHER: Definitely.   
  
  Q. Nice to finish off the season with another win for you, wouldn't it?  
 ROSS FISHER: It would be nice. But obviously a form man with Robert, and same first two days with Paul Lawrie, he played some good golf and he's still out there, and guys like Alvaro Quiros, bombs it miles. He's playing well. I can't think who else is out there -- I think James Kingston had a good number and Mark Foster is there, Rory is just behind. So there's some good players out there. Just got to obviously finish these holes off, see where we are for tomorrow and take tomorrow as it comes.   
  
  Q. You're not playing next week?  
 ROSS FISHER: No, week off.   
  
  Q. You're still technically in with a chance on the Order of Merit yourself.   
 ROSS FISHER: To be honest I have, but I'm just trying to finish as strongly as I can and I'm certainly not going to chase the Order of Merit and play next week. I've stuck to my guns and my schedule has panned out.   
 After I play Volvo Masters, I think Volvo will be my 27th event. When I sat down at the start of the year with my coach, we said we wanted to play 24 to 28 and obviously I've played a hell of a lot more bigger events because of how I've played but fortunately I've played 27, so it's a good number.   
 No, I'm not going to change my schedule.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT