ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2008
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Is the most generous you've ever played the Old Course?   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I think it was there for the taking today. I played it Friday and it was pretty brutal, 40-, 50-yard wind so we knew the forecast was going to be more generous for us today.   
 Just wanted to put in a good performance and get off to a great start; 5-under through nine, six through ten, a couple of sticky patches, got a little unlucky on 11, but to eagle 14 was massive.  
  
  Q. Talk us through that.   
 ROSS FISHER: I hit a really good drive. I think I had 279 to the flag, just hit it a little bit right but got it far enough past that I literally just had to chip up over the bank and probably about 35 yards, just wanted to get it on the green about 20, 25 yards and hoped it would run out and saw the ball appear and thought it because going in and thought it had a chance and obviously it went in. Obviously it was probably the highlight of the day.  
  
  Q. What about the 18th? You looked as though you felt that you needed that putt to possibly win the tournament.   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, obviously I was 10-under, and then I hit two really good shots into 16 thinking, right, if I can somehow get it to 11, I'll have a really good chance and unfortunately didn't make that.   
 Had a great par on 17 thinking, come on, one more, birdie the last and we'll see what happens. Didn't hit the best of drives but had a decent yard age and just got it a tad heavy and left myself a nice putt.   
 So down the hill, a little left-to-right, a shame I left it short, right in the jaws. It was a shame. But I can't be too disappointed with 65. I've given myself a great opportunity but if Robert or Martin make a birdie and pip me, hats off to them.  
  
  Q. Where will you watch the rest of the action?  
 ROSS FISHER: Well, Robert is coming up the last, maybe go see the family and sit down and chance. If Robert makes a birdie on the last, then I know that I don't need to hang around.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT