MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP IN COLOGNE
September 11, 2008
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Tell us about a good day.  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it was pretty good, obviously looking at the leaderboard going around, you see 4-under, and we were playing behind Jean, so you could see he was carrying his good form from last week in Crans.   
 Just tried to stay patient, didn't play great on the front side but holed a couple of really good par-saving putts, especially the one on 8 from 25 feet, after missing that way right, that was a bonus and just try to hang in there and make a few birdies and fortunately five birdies later, was around in 4-under.   
 Could have been better. I missed a sort of 4- or 5-footer on 17 for birdie, just a bit of -- I don't know, it wasn't the best lag in the world; it was on a slope. But to go around 1-over after nine and finish 4-under is quite pleasing.  
  
  Q. Could have been better, but you're such a perfectionist, but what were you doing looking at leaderboards on the first day, anyway, or just interest?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, just seeing what the scores are doing. I was looking in the hotel room and saw 1-under was like third or fourth this morning and no one was really tearing it up. And go up here and I couldn't really see any leaderboards and obviously teed off.  
 Went out, and then I can't remember the first time I saw a leader, might have been the seventh, and I think 3-under maybe was leading. So I thought, well, the scoring is not great, which is very surprising and obviously by the time you got around to, I think it was 12 or 13, saw Finchy was 5 and Luc had just birdied to go to 5, you thought, well, the scoring is a bit better and I just picked 1-up there to get it to 2-under.   
 I thought, right, if I can pick a couple more up -- and fortunately hold a big putt on 14 and birdie on 15 and finished with three pars. If I could have nicked one it could have been nice but 4-under is a steady start.  
  
  Q. Nice position to be in with the redraw every day, as well.   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, definitely, if I'm going to be last off or second-last, Robert was 4-under with a few to play, so he might get to 5, which, you know, which will be fine if he does, but yeah, 4-under, only two behind after the first round but there's a long way to go.   
 There's a lot of birdies to be had out there. The greens are perfect really, they are fast, they are true and you can hole putts. It's literally down to a putting tournament, so hopefully if I can play like I did in the Pro-Am, only missed one fairway and made seven birdies and no begs, I can do something like that for the next three days and give myself a chance good chance.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT