JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 31, 2008
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Starting the day off nine thoughts off the third place you needed. We all thought Ross Fisher is done; doesn't look like you did. 
 ROSS FISHER: No, felt like I played quite well all week but just haven't really scored, how I've played. First I played well and let it slip, same with second day, and the same with yesterday really. 
 So I just wanted to go out and try to putt in a good performance and to start birdie eagle, got off to a great start and had some chances and didn't quite take them but picked up a couple more, got out, I think I was 4-under going out. 

 Q. And did you start thinking, hey, this might be on? 
 ROSS FISHER: I just wanted to, you know, shoot as good a score as I can. I knew that coming into this week, I would have had to finish I think first or second and Ollie had to finish way out of here. 
 All credit to Ollie. I watched him finish Friday and I thought he showed a tremendous amount of courage and guts: To hit the shot did he on 12 and eagle 12 and 16; up-and-down on 17. He deserved to make the cut and deserves to be on the team. 
 Thought I would give it one last go, and a shame to not quite have a bogey-free round, one poor shot I hit all day, and nice to birdie the last to finish on a positive note.

 Q. Chance of a wildcard; a lot of players in the mix obviously?
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I think personally I probably would have had to play my way in which is very unlikely.
 As for a wildcard, who knows. You can't count out Martin Kaymer. He's won twice and was very unfortunate this week. It was a struggle for all of the guys in contention. Obviously myself, I just wanted to put in a good performance which I've done. 
 Hopefully Nick was watching that and I've put in a good performance but there's a lot of guys with wildcards, Clarke, Poulter, Casey so it's up in the air. Personally I'd be very surprised if he picked me but we'll see. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT