JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2008
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Pleased to come back after a poor front nine?
 ROSS FISHER: Well, it was a very tricky day. Wind was constantly blowing and it was tricky to get the right clubs and obviously with the rain we've had, the course is very, very soft, placing which kind of helped quite a lot. But you get on the greens and they are really soft and it's really tricky to hole putts because they are so soft and they are not really taking very well. 
 But you know, hopefully they will be better first thing in the morning. But yeah, to take almost, as I say, advantage of a good come back and shoot 1-under, especially late when putts were not going in so much and so frequent was delightful, yeah. 

 Q. I take it there's a lot of satisfaction any time when you manage to fight back, but given the conditions, probably even more so. 
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, definitely. Obviously a lot of guys are talking Ryder Cup, Ryder Cup, Ryder Cup. Yeah, it's on a lot of guys' minds. It's on my mind a bit, but to be honest I'm trying not to think about it. I'm not in the team at the moment. I've got no pressure on myself. 
 Guys like Rose and Søren, Oliver Wilson, they have to perform to put themselves on to the team, so for me, I don't feel any pressure. It's been a great season for me. Just going to play this week for this week, hopefully put in a good performance, and if I play my way into the team, fantastic. 
 And if I don't, maybe Nick will think about me as a wildcard pick. There's some good players around. You've got Clarke and Casey, Poulter, all those guys, but it's out of my hands. So I just have to try to put in a good performance and that's all I can do.

 Q. When you said similar last week, maybe more stressful conditions, because the round wasn't so good, but I wasn't quite sure whether you really believed that or were just saying it, and now I see it in your face and you do believe it, don't you, about The Ryder Cup, not taking it too seriously. 
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it wasn't a goal for me at the start of the year, but because of my season, I've put myself into contention. 
 Obviously Nick came up to me at The Open on Saturday and congratulated me and said, "I've been watching your progress." To know that he's looking at me and thinking about me is great, it's a testament to how far I've come. 
 Like I say, I'm not in the team yet and there are a lot of guys that are in the team that are playing to get in the team and stay in the team, but for the likes of myself and Clarke and Casey and Poulter -- I see Casey and Poulter are not here this week, which is obviously disappointing maybe for Nick and for The Ryder Cup and for European golf, but you know, there's still all to play for. 
 If they play well in America and they get a pick, then that's fair enough. But all I can do is worry about myself, try and put in a good performance, and if I play my way in, great, fingers crossed, maybe he'll pick me. We'll have to wait and see.

 Q. How was it playing alongside Colin and Søren Hansen?
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, playing with Monty in his homeland, Scotland. It was a really nice gallery following us. And playing with Søren, he's had a great season, a really great ball-striker and to wander around with those two was pretty awesome.
 Monty obviously didn't have his best day, but I'm sure he'll come back tomorrow fighting. Søren playing pretty steady, and to be fair, a few putts here and there, he could have shot a lot better. 
 Yeah, obviously to keep an eye on sort of what Søren is doing is good, but to be fair, I'm just thinking about myself. And if he goes out and plays well, gets himself on the team, hats off to him; congratulations. All I can do is worry about myself.

 Q. Wandering around with those two, do you actually talk about Ryder Cup?
 ROSS FISHER: To be honest, chatted to Monty a little bit but Ryder Cup wasn't mentioned. Chatted to Søren a bit but didn't mention The Ryder Cup. 
 For me, it not really in my mind. Hopefully for Søren it's not in my mind and he's just going to concentrate on his own game and hopefully he'll play his way on to the team because he deserves to. He's a very good golfer. 
 Monty obviously wanted to get on the team. He's Mr. Ryder Cup but he's going to have to do something special I would have to say to get on the team. But if he puts in a good performance and his form is good, you can't count him out as a wildcard pick, because as I say, he is Mr. Ryder Cup. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT