WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
July 31, 2008
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I'm obviously a bit disappointed, but it's like the saying, you don't win it on Thursday but you can certainly lose it. I'm still in there in contention. I think, what, 4- or 5-under so far is the best score. But like you said, I felt like I played really solid out there. I struggled a little bit on the greens. They've gone from being ridiculously quick Tuesday to quite a nice pace today. The first three or four holes took me a little while to get the speed.   
 Fortunately I got that eventually, but then, like you say, to make a 7 -- it was a tough hole, but yeah, made a bit of a hash of it. But I'm still there.  
  
  Q. First time for you. Is it as you expected it to be, this course?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I think so. I played it a few times on the computer so I know what it's like. I know it's very, very long, and obviously I've watched Mr. Woods win it quite a few times, so it obviously suits the bigger hitters. Hopefully it can suit me.  
 Yeah, I feel quite comfortable around here. It's quite long. If you can hit the driver well and get the putter going, you're in for a good chance.   
  
  Q. What did happen on the 8th?  
 ROSS FISHER: Just pulled the driver a little bit just in the left rough and then tried to hit 7-iron, just the club twisted, went in the left-hand trap, rolled to the back of the bunker slightly on the downslope and tried to get it on the green, tried to get a little bit too cute, came up in the short rough and sat right down and just caught too much of the ball, went 25, 30 feet past. Then knocked it about four or five feet past and unfortunately missed it and tapped in for a 7. It's annoying, but like I say, you don't win it on a Thursday but you can certainly lose it, and I don't think I've -- I've shot myself in the foot a little bit, but I'm only a few birdies off the lead.  
  
  Q. Forgetting that hole, your round was terrific.   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I feel like I played really well. Obviously K.J. didn't play his best, but Chris got it going, as well. We were kind of feeding off each other and knocking birdies in. But yeah, it was a shame to finish that way. It would have been nice to shoot 4-under, but I'll forget about it and look forward to tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT