ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2018
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under 67, pleased with the start?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, always nice to go bogey-free out there.  It's always a tough opener to the season.  It's a tough golf course.  It's long, pretty tight.  Rough's generally pretty thick and the greens are firm and fast.  So you kind of know where your game's at.   
I think it really helped playing last week the EurAsia Cup and coming to Dubai the week before, as well, for four days practise.  Didn't feel rusty at all.  I've kind of carried on the good form from the back end of last season.  Drove it pretty well today.  Got a new driver in the bag for this week.  Chipping was getting better and nice to see a few putts drop.   
 Q.  How does this week compare to previous years?  
ROSS FISHER: It's playing a bit different I'd say.  It's not as firm and as fiery as it normally is.  I think the greens are definitely a little softer and a bit slower than normal.  You know, the rough is still thick but you get lies where you can get a club on it whereas in previous years it's literally just been wedge, hack it out.   
So I think the course setup is a lot better this year.  When we miss fairways, you're still able to go at the green but you still need to get the club on the ball.  It's still playing tough, as you can see, what, 6-under is leading, so it's still got teeth to the course.   
You still want to hit the right shots, keep the ball in the right spots, because above the hole downhill, downgrain on these greens, you can get some quite slick putts.  Mine on the last, only from ten feet, got a good four or five feet past.  You've got to be careful but overall very, very pleased to shoot bogey-free 5-under par.   
 Q.  You're obviously pleased with today's round.  Anything you want to work ongoing into tomorrow or just happy the way the game?  
ROSS FISHER: Hole a few more putts would be nice.  Game feels good.  Played really solid in the Pro-Am.  I think barely missed a green, didn't miss many fairways.  The new driver is working really, really well.  It's given me even more confidence than I had before with my other driver.   
The putter's really been the only thing that can kind of go hot and cold.  Putted nicely today.  Gave myself a lot of chances, a lot of looks and disappointing not to pick a few more up on the par 5s but having said that, it was a pretty solid day.  I wasn't scrapping or working for pars.  It was a pretty stress-free 5-under par, so I'll take three more of those.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT