BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2008
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 68 today, you're in good shape. 
   ROSS FISHER: Yeah, not in too bad shape. Obviously at the moment two behind but a long way to go. They have still got quite a few holes to play, so if I can stay sort of a couple off the lead, then, yeah, I look forward to going out there tomorrow and having hopefully as good a day as I've had so far this week and see what happens.

   Q. And last week, of course, you must be, goes without saying, enjoying your golf at the moment; do you find it easy? 
   ROSS FISHER: What, after last week you mean? It's been difficult, obviously after having a win like last week it was a boost for my confidence, but it was like after a tiring run really. So to play this week was always going to be difficult. Feeling not too bad. 
   But yeah, I mean, I just went in with not the highest of expectations, but went in believing that I could win, feeling that I could win because my game was in good shape. In reality I wanted to put in a good performance really and I've put in three good days and hopefully I can put in one more tomorrow. 

   Q. How do you keep the belief going? 
   ROSS FISHER: To be honest I'm quite a respectably strong mentally-shaped person. So I feel really strong in that department, so I've got no negative thoughts, no doubts. I know what I'm capable of doing. It's just going out there and doing it, and, you know, to be fair, I believe in myself, I believe in my ability, and fingers crossed the last few weeks, it's come good. So hopefully it can continue.

   Q. What's your Sunday morning routine when you're in contention?
   ROSS FISHER: Just be like any other day, just because it's a Sunday it will be no different. Hopefully get a good night's sleep, wake up --

   Q. Do you sleep well?
   ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I've slept pretty well this week so far. You know, hopefully that will continue. It's been quite relaxed this week because I've got my wife, Jo, and my Mum and Dad with me, so it's been like at home away from home, so that's really nice, and just wake up, have some breakfast, get to the course just before an hour before I tee off, put the shoes on, warm up and go play.

   Q. Same next week as well?
   ROSS FISHER: Yeah, pretty much. Just because it's The Open Championship, I'm just trying to treat it like any other tournament. It just happens that it's obviously the biggest tournament that we play in as professionals, but I don't think you should treat it any different, that's my own opinion. Other guys may think differently, but no, I'm going to do exactly what I'm doing before every tournament an hour before, hit some chips and putts, and if I play well, I play well; and if not, there's always tomorrow.

   Q. Getting a lot of attention this week after your win last week, and you'll get more next week; do you enjoy it?
   ROSS FISHER: Yeah, that's what we play the game for. If you're not playing well, we don't get a chance to speak to you guys. So every time we speak to you guys, the press and do interviews, you know you're doing something right. 
   Yeah, obviously the last few weeks have been going great. Obviously last week was tremendous. Like you said, there's been a lot of hype and publicity and it's been great, and obviously getting paired with Mickelson this week and Ollie this week, was a great pairing, to play with the world No. 2 was tremendous, and hopefully I can get a good draw tomorrow and hopefully play some good golf. 

   Q. How well do you know Birkdale?
   ROSS FISHER: A little bit. I've only played it once about ten years ago. It's changed a lot I think. So going to get there Monday and then play nine Tuesday, nine Wednesday and hopefully familiarise myself with it and just wait and see what happens.  
  End of FastScripts 
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT