BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 21, 2008
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   ROSS FISHER: I'd be lying if I said I was totally satisfied. I left a couple of shots out there. You know, silly bogey, really, on 8 and then hit two wonderful shots on 9, and then hit two really good shots on 11, just went through and didn't make birdie.   
 So I was a little bit down thinking I'm playing really well and again, the putter just wasn't really working. Fortunately holed a couple really good putts on 14, 15, so that obviously gave me a lot of confidence to hit into on the last and make birdie and finish at 11 was quite a satisfying day.   
  
  Q. You're a long hitter. What are you sort of hitting into that 18th hole?   
 ROSS FISHER: Today I hit a smooth 5-iron which went just past, but I think yesterday, I think I hit 3-iron from a little further back. Today I had about 215, 220 flag, so it was just a nice, smooth 5-iron because the ball is going miles.   
  
  Q. Swedish kid over the first two days, Lemke, hit 5-wood 6-iron into the last hole.   
 ROSS FISHER: That's pretty impressive. I played with Pelle today and he's put on a lot of distance. He can smack it out there, so we had a good tussle today. 5-iron that's quite impressive. I don't know where it's going with 5-wood, so that's huge.   
  
  Q. What's your plan tomorrow?  
 ROSS FISHER: Just try and do the same things. Try and go out there, stay aggressive, you know, hope the putter can behave itself. Misbehaved a little bit but holed a few towards the end. That's what the course is about, but felt more comfortable on the greens. They were back to a nice speed. After Thursday, leaving it short, and yesterday I was knocking everything six, eight feet past, so it's quite nice today to give every putt a chance, but it was just cozying past the hole, so that was quite nice. If I do that tomorrow, and a few drop, who knows?   
 Martin is playing very, very well, a tremendous talent and a great player and lovely guy and obviously being German, everyone is rooting for him, so it's going to be difficult but I like my chances.  
  
  Q. Is the fight for second do you think?   
 ROSS FISHER: It could be. He's, what, 17 at the moment, I don't know where he's at, so you think he's going to potentially get to 18, maybe 19, so what's that, seven, eight, off the lead.   
 Around this course, it's quite a long way back, but then you know, he shot 63 yesterday, and myself and Adam were discussing it and think it's out there. If I can play the front nine, figure out how to sort of do 2- or 3-under on the front nine, then I feel the back nine I can really get it going.   
  
  Q. What's your European Tour low round?  
 ROSS FISHER: Good question. Could be 65, maybe 64, I'm not sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT