BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 20, 2008
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about how satisfying that was.   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, obviously pretty satisfying I would say. Nice way to finish with a birdie on 18, but feel like I've left quite a few shots out there really. I played so well Wednesday. I had it on a string, to be fair, and shot 7-under and didn't make the five and felt like I left at least three putts out there.  
 So I went into this week with a lot of confidence knowing that my game is good and that I was putting well. And yesterday I just struggled on the greens. They were not quite as quick as Wednesday so I must have had at least a half a dozen putts short in the middle so it was quite a frustrating day yesterday.  
 To shoot 2-under is still a decent score. Just felt like if I could putt a bit better, I might have a chance.  
 And I played really, really well today, I felt. Struggled on the greens because they are a bit quicker and was knocking them sort of six, eight feet past and having to hole ones coming back and hiccup on 16 with a 3-putt there.   
 It was sort of funny, walking up the fifth, Adam said to me: "Come on, Mate, I'm getting a bit bored here, are you ever going to hole a putt?"   
 I was like, "Sorry, Mate, I'm trying.   
 He said, "I know you are, Mate, but it almost felt like just a boring round; it's just fairways, greens, miss the birdie put and make pars." Fortunately I sort of took a little bit from that and knocked it in from off the green for eagle on 6 and birdied 9, so 6-under total, so right in there.   
  
  Q. I know it's only the halfway stage but with the eagle you must feel you've climbed the leaderboard and very much involved?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, there's four or five guys at 6 going out this afternoon. So I'd be surprised if no one got into double figures. I think there will be a 9 or 10 I would say, but you never know.   
 Yesterday in the afternoon, the greens slowed up and they were quite bumpy so it might be the same for the guys that play late afternoon. They might only shoot a couple under and if they do I'm only a couple off the lead so feeling pretty comfortable at the moment and just have to wait and see at the end of the day where I am and hopefully press on on the weekend.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT