HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 10, 2007
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  How much fun was it?   
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, it was great fun obviously.  I've experienced obviously some highlights obviously playing with Tiger, Ernie and Stenson in Dubai, and obviously to play with the likes of Mickelson and obviously Kevin Stadler; it's always going to be a daunting task obviously playing with guys that big.   
 I just felt like I played pretty good.  I hung in there and to come off with 68, you know, bogey-free is very, very pleasing.   
  
  Q.  On a tricky day when the wind blew and it's cold, which won't be surprising after the last couple of days?   
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, it was tricky.  The flags were a lot tougher obviously.  As you can see the scoring probably wasn't great today bar, you know, a few 68s by myself and Phil, and I see Paul had a great round of 66.  It was tricky.  It was sort of cold when we first started; and then the sun came out and it was lovely and it came back in and was cold and a little bit breezy.  So sort of the last three or four holes, it got quite chilly.  Almost had to put the jumper back on.   
 It was tricky, but obviously for me, I feel really, really pleased with the way I played.  I stuck in there and probably didn't play as good as the first two days.  Left a few putts out there, but I holed out really, really well when I needed to.  When I missed greens, I holed some really key putts.  So very, very pleasing and looking forward to tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  Golf is obviously still in its infancy in China, and in terms of the crowd, while we see some big crowds, don't often get them even at tournaments of this stature, but with Mickelson out there, I daresay you felt the galleries around you today.   
 ROSS FISHER:  It was nice, actually.  I mean, it was very strange compared to the first two days.  You know, you'd hit a shot and to a blind green and you would think, well, where has that gone; and you get up there and it's four or five feet and not a ripple.   
 Whereas today, it was actually quite nice, and even not hitting the right shot that you would have liked, they were still very appreciative.   
 It was a shame in some respects.  There was a lot of photographers and a lot of the crowd with cameras with mobile phones and stuff.  So it was tricky obviously for us three to concentrate and focus, but I think marshals handled the crowd extremely well today and kept them all in really good order.   
  
  Q.  You've been coming here a while.  Essentially they are learning.  That sounds patronising, but they are getting into the nuances of golf, what's good, what isn't and when they can make some noise.   
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, definitely, definitely.  I mean, obviously this is, what, my third trip now, fourth tournament, and yeah, they are still obviously not very golf-orientated, but they are far more advanced now than, say, five ten years ago.   
 Obviously you always know that there's going to be a lot of clicker-happy fingers out there, because that's what they do over here.  They do like to take a lot of pictures and stuff, but that's great.  They are obviously coming to see us and they want to get some good pictures and get some good autographs, as well.   
  
  Q.  And it's nice because they will all be calling out your name and getting those pictures.   
 ROSS FISHER:  It's nice, it is really, really nice, nice and refreshing to have people want a piece of your time, just if it is to sign a couple of pictures or to have your photo taken.  It is very, very nice and I enjoy it, because obviously I have spent the time and effort for them to come and watch me.  So it's not too much to ask the rest of us to stay back five, ten minutes, sign a few autographs and have some pictures done.   
  
  Q.  I'm sure you feel so much the better for having won a tournament this year, the KLM Open; going to hold you in good stead for the final round?   
 ROSS FISHER:  I hope so.  I felt like today I held myself pretty well playing with Mickelson.  Obviously I think playing with Mickelson, and Casey who I played with for the first three days at Alfred Dunhill Links Championship.  So, yeah, should be good.   
 Looking forward to the challenge.  Obviously Mickelson is obviously playing very, very well, and Paul is obviously come off from a great round today.  So it's going to be tough, but you know, I'm just looking forward to the challenge.  Hopefully I can hang in there and play like I've done the first three days, and who knows, another 68 may be good enough; and if not, then it's still been a great week.  But I'll be going out with all guns blazing.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT