HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 8, 2007
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tell us about your first visit here, you're a dap hand at China, but this particular tournament, what are your first impressions? 
 ROSS FISHER:  First impression is very good, I would say.  Obviously it's a massive tournament here in China.  Everybody is almost quite ecstatic to have a prestigious golf tournament here.  They take care of us.  You know, there's so many people here.  The hotel, it's a great hotel, good location just up the road from the course. 
 And obviously today, shooting a good score around that course, it was the first time I had played it.  I only walked nine holes yesterday, so played the back nine blind but obviously having walked it, felt like I did quite well and played very nicely out there.  Very good course.  Very impressed. 

 Q.  The way you saw that course, suggests it's pretty difficult and that rough is pretty thick, isn't it? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, well, I say yes, but I probably say no because I don't know because I didn't -- I was only in the rough fortunately twice, I think.  Once on the par 3, came up short, and massive chip-in and once on 16, went for the green and came up literally on the downslope before the bunker so it was a horrible shot. 
 Yeah, I hit it really good today, so I didn't really find much rough.  So stay clear of that thick stuff. 

 Q.  Take it this rubber-stamps the fact that you've arrived on the world scene when you're playing in an event of this nature. 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, I hope so, obviously to get my first win under my best was huge, big confidence boost.  And before I won, I went in every week thinking I can win and now I'm going in thinking and believing I can win because obviously once you've had a win, you know you can get over that hurdle and stand there Sunday afternoon with a trophy.  So yeah, I'm coming in this week with high expectations. 
 Played pretty well around Valderrama.  Obviously 10-over to finish 14th, I was amazed my first time there.  But this is a lot nicer.  There's a lot less stress around here.  You know, you can hit it out in the middle of the fairway and you haven't got to worry about a tree-in-your-face sort of thing.  So it's quite refreshing to play this sort of course, yeah. 

 Q.  I must say, you sound refreshed.  You sound bright-eyed and bushy-tailed. 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, I feel all right actually.  I got here Tuesday afternoon.  I flew, it helps, in business from Gatwick, from Gatwick to Dubai; and I was first Dubai to here, but unfortunately my chair wasn't working.  So didn't really get the amount of sleep that I would have liked, but yeah, I feel pretty good.  
 Stayed up very late Tuesday evening, probably about 2.30, 3.00 in the morning, just trying to stay awake and then try to get a good night sleep.  And then last night got a decent sleep.  So, yeah, I don't feel too bad. 
 I mean, obviously 68 proves that I'm feeling okay. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT