PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 20, 2007
Ross Fisher
Charl Schwartzel
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Okay, guys, we are not going to demean your efforts by referring to that other minor occasion that's happening in Paris right away, but first of all, Ross, you thought he was coming back to you there and he did brilliantly, but you, I suppose, must be very happy with your own position. 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, definitely.  I felt like I played pretty solid.  Hit a few loose shots here and there.  It was obviously great to play with Charl, sort of egging each other on, birdies going in and obviously just pipped me at the last with that great third shot on 17.  You know, there's still a lot to play for, a lot of golf left.  I think I'm one or two behind at the moment so just wait and see. 

 Q.  Charl, do you view 17 or 18 as being more important there? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Well, 17, obviously after the tee shot looked like a certain 6 and I ended up making 3, so that was a big turning point. 
 And then I felt like I hit a really good putt on 18 to save par there.  You don't want to make a nice eagle like that and finish up with a bogey.  Otherwise, I really played well. 

 Q.  It's going to be a great day for both of you tomorrow so let's get down to this nonsense in Paris then.  Did you talk about it much out there today? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  We actually talked about it a bit before, sort of discussing who we think is going to win. 

 Q.  And??? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  And obviously the Springboks are going to win, in my opinion.  And I think in his opinion, England. 
 I think it's going to be definitely a close contest today on the rugby field, as it was today on the golf course. 

 Q.  In a strange kind of way, will you be glad to get it over with tonight so you can concentrate on your own sport tomorrow? 
 ROSS FISHER:  I suppose a little bit yeah.  There's been a lot of hype this week about it.  Like Charl said we had a little chat over lunch, and I think it's going to be a really close game.  Obviously we did not expect to get to the final because we played so poorly in the group sessions but we've just gotten better and better and now we have the big test against South Africa.  I predicted on the range this morning, 15-12.  Who knows, it could be right but just wait and see. 

 Q.  In the rugby, wish you both luck.  But when it comes to the golf tomorrow, you are both young players who have won this season, and Ross, I know it was a particularly dramatic win for you.  Has it changed the way you've come into tournaments? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, I think so.  It's given me that extra bit of confidence.  I'm sure Charl it's no different, but I always turn up every single week to win a tournament.  That's why we play the game.  That's why we are here and I feel no different than obviously after the Dutch win in dramatic style.  It showed that I can actually win with these guys and it gave me that bit of extra confidence and I just continue to turn up and play as good as I can and try to win some tournaments. 

 Q.  Not too far away in Spain that you won and you're a confident player, you've got Ricci Roberts on the bag, how do you look at the final day in tournaments now when you're in contention? 
 CHARL SCHWARTZEL:  Obviously like Ross said, the only reason we're out there is to win golf tournaments.  That's the main goal and after winning in Spain, it obviously gives you that bit of confidence that in the back of your mind, that you know you've done it before. 
 So I'm going to go out tomorrow, and I'm playing -- feels like I'm playing really well and rolling in a few putts, and that's what you need to win golf tournaments.  If I can keep the composure tomorrow, you know, there's a lot of birdies out there, and there's a lot of guys going to make birdies.  So it's going to be tight coming down the last. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT