BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2007
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Bad start and it just never happened? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, it unfortunately, like you say, just got off to the worst possible start, five bogeys.  Didn't really hit too many bad shots but just for some reason seemed to struggle on the greens.  Felt like I was quite used to them and I felt comfortable on them and all of a sudden they seemed to -- I don't know if it was just me but they seemed to totally change today.  They were so much quicker and truer than the last three days.  I just for 18 holes really struggled with the pace of the greens.  I think the first three or four greens, you know, you can't afford to do that. 
 I was always battling against it, but, you know, tried my best to fight back.  When I did try, things went wrong again, like on the 12th there.  So just wasn't meant to be unfortunately. 

 Q.  18th summed up your day in a way, trying hard but just wasn't happening for you, was it. 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, after 12, I hit two good shots and obviously the tee shot ended up in the ditch.  Second shot, hit it up literally two inches in the trap plugged and didn't have a shot obviously, went out-of-bounds and made 8.  That was a bit hard to swallow. 
 Thought, right, come on, just try and have a good finish and get back into red figures.  Then birdied 16 and thought I hit a good one on 17, unfortunately went into the bushes and I made six there.  18, I tried to stay aggressive, hit driver and hit a good drive and must have got a little bit punished for being quite a long hitter.  Thought I was going to go for it, didn't quite come off, a couple of shots later, couple of putts, I make six.  It's a shame but try and look back and take the positives out of the week. 

 Q.  At the start of the week, with your Wentworth connections, does it make it doubly disappointing? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, would have been bad to shot -- probably 74 would have got me in a playoff.  75, 76 would have been pretty bad but to shoot 84 is quite hard to swallow.  I don't know what really went wrong out there.  Felt like I was hitting really good on the range and just for some reason, just wasn't quite there on the course but you get days like that. 
 Just going to have to show the strength of character that I have and bounce back and have a good week next week. 

 Q.  When are you going to Wales? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Tuesday.  I'm in the Pro-Am, so have a couple of days to try to think about what happened and stuff and then put it to the back of my mind and press forward with Wales. 

 Q.  Best thing is just to forget this as quickly as possible and just get on with it? 
 ROSS FISHER:  It's going to be tough.  I'm going to be probably sitting at home tonight thinking, just throwing away such a big tournament.  No matter how hard I tried, wasn't quite happening for me.  You get days like that.  First three days, everything went right and today it didn't.  That's golf. 

 Q.  The good thing is the first three rounds were tremendous and to put yourself in that position must be encouraging. 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, looking at the big picture, you're walking up the finish, playing at your home club, you've got so much pressure on you, you've got so much support, playing at your home club, the biggest tournament we'll play this year bar the majors; I think you can be so proud and so pleased with what you've achieved.  First, you've dreamt of playing in this tournament for years and then to actually walk up the 18th, probably not in the best frame of mind, but to be just in the last group, you know, even to hear the ovation I got after things weren't going too well.  The support's been unbelievable this week and I'll remember it for a long time. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT