BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2007
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   RODDY WILLIAMS:  Going into the final round of the BMW PGA Championship, share of the lead in the final group, this must be something you've dreamt of for a long time. 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, definitely.  I'm sure everyone knows I've been up here since  '94, I've watched a lot of the great tournaments unfold down the years, obviously the Volvo PGA and changed hands to the BMW. 
 So yeah, obviously just to have a chance, and especially being in the final group tomorrow, it's going to be -- I was going to say it's going to be a wonderful day but obviously the weather doesn't look too good.  Hopefully it will be reasonably kind to us and yeah, just looking forward to tomorrow. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Great finish, particularly after what happened the front nine. 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, still haven't managed to match the first hole, which is a shame but hopefully can do that tomorrow.  I think that's my second or possibly third birdie; just to show that I can bounce back after sort of not a disaster, but a bad hole. 
 Obviously the chip-in on 4 was pretty special.  But just struggled, just came up, you know, just through the green on 7, didn't get up-and-down, hit two good shots into 8 and didn't really threaten the flag which you can't really do there.  Obviously 3-putt 8 and to bogey the, see myself 5-under.  Fraser was playing really solidly to be 9-under.  I thought, "Pull yourself to go.  People haven't come all this far to see play like this.  Just thought, come on, just suck it up and try to find some good swings."  For some reason, it just clicked and just kept hitting good shot after good shot, probably only hit one bad shot, the tee shot on 15.  Apart from that, you know, it was pretty solid.  Like you say, obviously to walk off 15 finally with a par in the bag was quite nice and just said to Adam, come on, same as yesterday. 
 And obviously to birdie 16, I feel like I had a really good chance and see the ball so close on 17, I thought, come on, let's do it two days in a row, but it wasn't meant to be. 
 And then getting the ovation on 18, how my ball finished there, I'll never know.  But to see it there obviously was a great thrill and a shame I didn't make it, but left myself a nice putt for birdie.  And just to walk off the green with that ovation was really, really special and I'll remember it for a long time. 

 Q.  With your association to Wentworth Golf Club, how special would it be to win this particular tournament? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Oh, crickey, it would be absolutely a dream come true.  I haven't won yet but to have my first Tour win would be special enough, but to have it here, you know, I probably won't be able to put it into words if it does happen tomorrow.  It just means so much, obviously, with the support and help I've had here at Wentworth, not only these past couple of years; it's been probably since joining in '94.  Everyone's been so helpful, so supportive of me.  And obviously especially after finishing my scholarship here, to keep me on and say, you know, we'll pay a certain amount if you pay the rest.  Yeah, I don't want to leave here.  It's the finest golf club in Europe. 
 Just to be associated with this golf club means a lot to me, and obviously now I carry the name forward on my bag fortunately, due to Mr. Caring, on my hat now.  So I feel really privileged and honoured to be walking around my home course and representing the club, and hopefully I can continue doing it in the right way and give people something to cheer about. 

 Q.  What would the first prize fund mean? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Certainly improve the bank account.  (Laughing) 

 Q.  You've earned in your career far, I understand 370 or thereabouts? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, last year I earned that.  We play for ridiculous amounts of money; I feel very fortunate to be doing a job that I love doing and I get paid to do it.  It's absolutely fantastic.  But like you say, there's a lot of money up for grabs and I'd quite like it myself but I know there's a lot of other guys that want it just as much as me. 
 You know, it's going to be a tough day.  Obviously, you know, I try and keep the emotions in check, because I'm sure there's going to be a hell of a number of people walking around and supporting.  Obviously being a hometown boy, so just got to try and go out and just approach it with the same way I have all week, just go out, play as good as I can and the main thing is just to enjoy it.  And at the end of the day, if it turns out that it's meant to be, then great.  And if not, then it still will have been a fantastic week and I'll remember it for a very long time. 

 Q.  Can you talk about the second shot at the last, what it was and how it went, how you played it? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Well, 18, you know, since the changes, it's really sort of a tough hole for me because of the length.  I don't really feel I can use it to my advantage on that tee.  The first day, actually moved the tees forward and hit a really good 3-wood and it went into the trap.  Yesterday I had the 2-iron off the tee and left me I think a 3- or 4-iron. 
 Today obviously walking off 17, Adam just said to me, "Just a decision to make on what we're going to hit."  And I think it was about 280-ish to the traps or something like that, and obviously it was a lot colder today and I think it was a little bit into the wind or so we thought.  Just discussed it and felt like the 2-iron was the safer option.  Hit it pretty solid, and obviously to get out there and I couldn't quite see the flag and had to cut it a little bit, but that almost helped me to my advantage. 
 The course was playing long but at the same time it was very firm and bouncy.  Just stepped up there knowing I had to hit the shot and I felt really comfortable hitting a soft 3-wood and absolutely flushed it but didn't cut quite as much as I was expecting it to.  I saw the end of the flight and figured, well, I hit it good enough to carry the bunker and then to hear sort of like a few claps and cheers and started getting louder, I thought, well, crickey, that must be really good.  I don't know how.  And obviously walking up I could just see the white dot of the ball on the back edge thinking, crickey, how the hell has that got there.  I actually said to Fraser after the second shot, "Thanks, Mate."  I don't know if it was luck, but I'm going to keep my mouth shut but to see where it ended up was absolutely fantastic. 

 Q.  15 feet? 
 ROSS FISHER:  I think it was 12 feet.  It was right up against the collar.  So I couldn't get quite a solid stroke on it but I felt like a decent stroke on it, if anything, didn't quite start it on the right line. 

 Q.  Your second shot on 17 as well, how far was that one? 
 ROSS FISHER:  I think it was 270 front, 279 to the flag.  I was in between 3-wood and 2-iron because I knew it was firm and bouncy and after yesterday hitting a 3-iron from 270 to three feet, I figured it's still playing firm, but it was a lot colder than yesterday, so ball wasn't going as far.  And literally, just before we were about to make our decision, a nice puff of wind came up and it was into the face.  So just made it very easy to pull 3-wood out and just know that I could hit it solidly. 
 And obviously it was off a slight downslope so just tried to turn it over right-to-left and just absolute flushed it.  As soon as I saw it take off, you know, I just said that would be good, I knew it was going to be really, really good depending on the bounce.  And to start walking not hearing anything, thinking, come on, there's going to be something in a minute and then to hear the cheers and claps get louder and louder I knew it was going to be good.  Adam said, "Come on, knock it inside."  I tried but didn't get it quite as close as yesterday.  But to see it up there probably ten feet away putting for 3 again was absolutely magical.  Unfortunately didn't manage to hole it but made a solid four. 

 Q.  Is 32 your best home in nine? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Probably obviously in the tournament and under the pressure that we were under, yeah, I would say so.  I don't know if I've done lower, obviously on a day-to-day basis but it's totally different because the course plays a lot easier.  Obviously you're not playing off the back tees; it's shorter.  Whereas here, back tees, you've got thousands and thousands of people watching you, TV cameras, and the course is firm and fast.  So, yeah, to achieve 32 on the back side was really, really pleasing. 

 Q.  It's not that long ago that some of us were watching you play in the trophy and things like that.  Any reason why you've done so well on Tour?  It's fair to say you've exceeded expectations, haven't you? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Oh, definitely. 

 Q.  Is there a reason for that? 
 ROSS FISHER:  No, not really.  I've just always wanted to do it I guess and having such a good amateur career, especially my last year, obviously the first -- I think it was about five or six tournaments, I didn't finish outside the top three or four.  Obviously Lytham Trophy was a great experience.  Obviously to shoot 10-under and to lose wasn't great but Heath played very, very good on the weekend especially in front of all of the Walker Cup selectors and the crowd.  That was a big highlight for my amateur career.  I just felt like, you know, it was around June, July time, I thought I feel ready.  I don't feel like I need to achieve any more in the amateur game.  I would have loved to have a stayed for the Walker Cup.  It was another year; I was 23, 24, so I figured I want to turn pro.  I felt like the time was right.  Felt like my game was ready.  Turned pro and obviously it's gone very, very well for me so far.  Can't like you say, put my finger on why it's gone so well.  I really don't know. 

 Q.  On Wednesday you said there's no pressure playing in front of your home members.  Is that still the case for you? 
 ROSS FISHER:  I think I'd be lying if I said I didn't feel any today because I certainly did. 
 Probably after the first tee shot, I think that's problem the most nervy tee shot out there, because it's, you know, you're on the tee, "Representing Wentworth Club from England" it's a very special feeling and to hear everyone cheering and clapping, and to know the amount of support I have behind me is absolutely amazing.  I'm just trying so, so, hard out there to play as good as I can, not only for me but for everyone out there supporting me.  I'm trying really hard to give them something to cheer about all the way around.  Obviously managed to do that for the first few, and then, you know, unfortunately it went a little bit quiet.  But managed to cheer them up with five birdies on the back side. 

 Q.  If the weather is as bad as the forecast, do you think your intimate knowledge of the golf course will give you more of an edge? 
 ROSS FISHER:  I don't know if it will give me any more advantage.  Obviously I feel like -- obviously being here for so long, I do have a slight advantage but you know, this is only my second time I've played in the event.  So I'll still new to the event and seeing the course conditions how they are this week, and obviously last year.  A lot of people don't know that every time playing up here day-to-day the course is so different to how we're playing it this week. 
 Obviously it's a lot firmer, a lot faster.  The greens are firm, running pretty quick.  Not to mention, you know, a couple hundred thousand spectators walking around with you, and obviously in front of the TV cameras.  I really do thrive on it.  I love playing golf and I love performing in front of people.  And hopefully I can go out there tomorrow and try and do it to the best of my ability and see where we end up come Sunday afternoon. 

 Q.  Can you talk a little bit about 7, 8 and 9? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yes, 7 was a little bit disappointing.  I hit what I thought were two really good shots.  After I hit my second shot, didn't hear any applause; it was very sort of dull.  I figured it was on the green but to see it through the back, myself and Adam couldn't really believe it and was just in between on how to play the chip shot and didn't quite commit to it and walked off with bogey.  It was a bit of a shame. 
 Tried to suck it up and hit two really good shots into 8 and didn't really go for the flag because obviously that pin up there, you've got to be absolutely spot onto hold the greens.  So I played for just short; if it ran up to, great; and if it didn't, just try and make a 2-putt.  And unfortunately, you know, hit what I thought was a good putt, but the greens are probably a little bit slower than what I played it on Monday.  So left myself a test and to walk off with a 3-putt was disappointing; no one likes to 3-putt, especially me. 
 So obviously to walk off with two bogeys there, just tried to put a good swing on the tee shot on 9.  Unfortunately didn't do that.  Went into the trap and couldn't really move it very far at all.  And then hit what I thought was a good third, and obviously the wind possibly we might have misjudged it slightly.  And obviously have 3-putts after that to walk off with a double, it was very, very disappointing to have got off to a bad start to then get it back and then obviously to make the eagle to then throw four shots away on three holes was really, really disappointing. 
 But I kind of feel like, you know, I showed the character that I am that I can just forget about those things; I don't get wound up; don't lose my temper, don't throw clubs or anything like that.  I just think, you know, there's no point.  At the end of the day, you're the only one hitting the golf shot.  So I just try to put them to the back of my mind and thought, right, I have nine holes now and let's try and pick up at least three or four shots if I can because I knew there's the par 5s to play.  I knew they weren't gimmie birdies.  You have to work for everything out there. 
 To play the back nine with 5-under without a bogey was really, really pleasing. 

 Q.  Going back to last year, how have you adapted to the course changes made by Ernie Els? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Don't know really.  I probably still am hitting virtually the same clubs that I did last year.  Obviously 8 is slightly changed with the two traps.  It kind of makes you think about it a little bit more.  You can't just pick out iron and just plunge it out to the middle of the fairway.  You have got to think about it because it does slope a little bit. 
 Obviously 12, bringing the ditch in, that makes it quite a demanding tee shot now because you can hit a good tee shot up the left side and be in the ditch.  So you have to pick your line, focus and commit to it.  Today I absolutely killed one down there that was about 30, 40 yards past the ditch.  15, obviously that's just such a tough hole.  I mean, I haven't hit the fairway once and fortunately I managed to par it today.  That was quite pleasing.  Obviously 18, with the new trap it quite tough because you can't see it off the tee but fortunately the decision is pretty easy because I can't hit driver there where the tee it, depending what the weather is doing tomorrow, you might need to hit driver because it might be absolutely saturated and windy and raining. 
 But no, so far, I think the changes, if anything, suit me.  Obviously the longer the course, the better for me. 

 Q.  How good of a rain player are you? 
 ROSS FISHER:  I feel like I'm pretty decent.  Obviously, you know, a week ago this time last year, I was playing Sunday with Darren Clarke and Hedblom in probably the worst conditions I've ever played golf in.  And to hear someone like Darren Clarke, you know, say, this is as bad as what Muirfield was like for the Open; it was the worst conditions he had ever seen.  To actually battle away on a Sunday for the first eight holes and hit the tee shot on 9 and still be in the mix, I feel like I coped really, really well with it because it was absolutely atrocious. 
 So, yeah, I've played in the rain obviously a number of teams.  Obviously amateur golf, you just get out there and you try and play as good as you can.  I mean, it's obviously a pain, but it's the same for everyone.  So I've just got to go out there and try not to get worked up about the rain and try not to moan and just keep my head down, focus and try and take each shot as it comes. 

 Q.  It's going to be the steady Eddie with Paul Broadhurst --  -- he already has done it; how do you feel you'll cope with that? 
 ROSS FISHER:  To be honest haven't really thought about it yet.  Still trying to digest what's happened today so far.  I'm sure I'll sit down tonight and have a think about it and think, come on, you're joint leader for the biggest tournament that we'll play for this year, you know, besides the majors, and having it at your home club makes it even more special and it makes me, you know, even more keen and hungry and eager to go out there and show everyone, all of the supporters that I can do it; that I can win. 
 I've had three really good days and just really hope that for myself and everyone out there supporting me that I can have a fourth. 

 Q.  When you're a teenager going around here with your chums and stuff, did you used to get to the 18th and just say, oh, and this 10-footer is to become champion, PGA Champion? 
 ROSS FISHER:  Yeah, probably a couple of times, you sort of laugh and joke about it, probably more so on the putting green when you're sort of 14, 15, you're thinking, "Oh, this putt is for the Open" "or this putt is for the PGA"; obviously now the BMW PGA, just try and put that little bit of added pressure on you. 
 Hopefully those putts that I hit when I was 13, 14, can become a reality, you know, maybe this time tomorrow.  But there's a long way to go and there's a lot of good players up there and I'm going to have to work damn hard if I'm going to walk out this week with trophy and as the champion. 
 RODDY WILLIAMS:  Let's see how tomorrow pans out, very best of luck.  Thanks for your time today. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT