ITALIAN OPEN
October 15, 2017
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Second consecutive Sunday in the heat of battle.  What was it like this time?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it was good fun.  Great fun playing with Fras.  We both knew we had to get off to a quick start and we both did that, birdieing the first few holes.  Honestly, we might have even birdied the first two, if not -- he birdied the first three.  He got one off me early on.   
Just trying to push each other along, really.  Just fed off each other.  Both had great front nines.  I think I was six and he might have been seven, and then just tried to do the same thing on the back nine.  Made some birdies early on and gave myself plenty of chances coming home.  Just unfortunately didn't manage to hole any.   
Great to finish minus 20; if it's going to be enough, I'm not sure, fingers crossed.  But I think it will probably come up maybe one or two short.  But it great to be playing two weeks back-to-back and in contention and playing some of the best golf of my life.   
 Q.  Kiradech is in a bit of bother on 16 looking at bogey.  Does that change perspective?  
ROSS FISHER: I guess a little bit.  Still got two holes to play but there's still guys on 18, 19, that I believe still have got the par 5 to play.  If you hit a decent drive, that's pretty much a gimmie birdie, maybe an eagle.   
There's a lot of golf to be played.  They still have to go out and do it.  I've managed to get in the clubhouse and post 20-under.  Just sit around and see what happens.   
 Q.  What were you thinking about that start bouncing off each other early on?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it was funny, chatting to Bartter walking up the ninth, he said, "Four birdies in the first six holes, and we're all watching you and were you thinking the magic 59?"  It did kind of cross our minds a little bit.   
Last week I had a goal to shoot 62 and managed to better that and shoot 61.  I thought, if I aim for 60, I might beat it and get a 59.  But hey, 63, it's a fantastic score on a Sunday with a chance to win such a prestigious and huge tournament.   
Like I say, a lot of golf to be played but in the clubhouse, 20-under and I just have to wait and see.   
 Q.  Slight twinge of disappointment; you gave yourself a great look on the last, didn't you?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I gave myself some good looks.  17 wasn't a great look.  I was pleased to see it on the green because it was a bit of a flyer lie which I had there.   
I think the ones that kind of killed a little bit are maybe the putt on 13 and the one on 16, I gave myself two really good looks there.  Like you said, the 18th, gave myself a really good look there.  A little bit left-to-right, up the hill.  Just said, come on, just give it a go, even if you knock it past and 3-putt, just make sure you give it a go.   
Thought I had it at one point and just slipped by.  Was relieved to see it go by a foot past and tap-in and sign for 20-under.   
 Q.  Will you watch the finish?  
ROSS FISHER: No idea.  Haven't thought about it.  Probably go in and speak to Jo and the kids and see what they are up to and looking forward to getting back tonight and seeing them this evening.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT