ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2017
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How was that?  
ROSS FISHER: It was fun.  I knew obviously we were starting off kind of playing for second.  Obviously Tyrrell had a big lead but after my performance yesterday, I felt like there was a good one in me today around here, because you saw the forecast, and still a bit chilly but there wasn't much breeze.   
When you get St. Andrews on a day like this, it's definitely bearable, but you still have to hit the shots.  I got off to a fast start and managed to make some good putts early on.  I think I birdied 2, 3, 4 and hit a lovely 3-wood into 5, and left it literally hanging on the lip to be 5-under through five.   
I birdied 6, birdied 7, birdied 8.  Unfortunately poor drive on 9 and then kind of caught fire a bit on the back nine.   
A shame not to birdie the last, a 60, but I'm not going to complain too much with a 61.   
 Q.  An exhibition of putting today, as well.  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, thank you.  I felt like I saw the lines really well yesterday at Kingsbarns, and it's one thing seeing the lines, but you've still got to roll the putt on the correct line with the right speed and make them, and to see them go in towards the end of the round yesterday gave me a lot of confidence and belief that what I was doing was working.   
Just wanted to come out here and put in a good performance, and if I could, try and repeat last year finishing tied second.  Looks like I'll finish second on my own.  Unfortunately Tyrrell was too far ahead.  I managed to give him a little bit to think about coming down the stretch.   
But you know, hats off to him.  To win your first tournament here at the Home of Golf is fantastic, but to back it up and successfully defend around these three courses is pretty unique and very, very special.  All credit to Tyrrell this week.   
 Q.  Give you a lot of confidence going into the rest of the season?  
ROSS FISHER: Definitely.  Obviously I was ninth going into this week, so fingers crossed, that's moved me up maybe a couple of spots.  I'm not sure quite how many so I'll have a look when I'm done here and see what that does.  I'm going to move to about 43rd in the world which is great.   
I've still got four tournaments to play in, and I've not been to Italy, where we are next week, but obviously really looking forward to China, Nedbank and Dubai, courses I feel comfortable on and courses I've done well on.  Hopefully we can finish the season strong, climb up that Race to Dubai leaderboards and climb up the World Rankings.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT