THE 146TH OPEN
July 22, 2017
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ROSS FISHER: It was a good day.  Like I just said to a few of the guys there, 66 was probably the worst it could have been.  I felt like I played really, really solid for pretty much all day.  17, 18 wasn't how I wanted to finish, obviously.  But, yeah, the entire back nine I felt like only a couple of holes where I was just off the edge of the green, trying to stay pars.
But I had a good look for birdie on 10.
Great look on 12.
Another good look on 13.
Decent look on 14.
Eagle chance on 15.
Birdied 16.
And then obviously 17 not to birdie there.
But all in all, 66 if you'd have said you can sit down and watch the golf and take 66, and I'd probably would have said yes.
Q. Did you feel when you went out there was a low score (inaudible.)
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, definitely.  The sun was out.  The wind was pretty benign compared to Friday morning, that's for sure.  We were at times 25, 30 yards -- today if it was into the wind it was barely ten yard, because the temperature had heated up.  It was quite warm.  It was pleasant out there.
I kind of sneaked a look at the leaderboard.  I saw Gracie shot fantastic, 8-under I believe today and saw DJ was going well.  So if you want a late tee-off time in The Open Championship on a Sunday, you've got to shoot a score on Saturday.  Thankfully I have.  I haven't had a chance to sit down and reflect yet and see where it puts me, but looking forward to having a chilled evening, relax, and come back and do it all again tomorrow.
Q. (Inaudible.)
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, definitely.  I mean, still a way to go.  As we all know, this game can bite you at times.  Today was, like I say, benign conditions.  And you could make a handful of birdies out there.  The forecast tomorrow apparently is not looking too good.  So we've just got to see what we get, really.  I think everyone is praying and fingers crossed that it's going to be like today, but I don't think that will happen.  Just have to come out tomorrow and try and play a steady round of golf and go out there have fun and enjoy because it's the Open Championship.  If you aren't enjoying it, you should be here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT