HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
June 30, 2017
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Steady start yesterday and an even better round of 67 today, which I think is your lowest round on this golf course?  
ROSS FISHER: I think it might be actually, yeah.  It was good.  Yesterday was nice.  Sort of nothing spectacular.  No real fireworks but just played pretty steady.  Unfortunate, just poor 3-putt on 17, but then to birdie the last I was really pleased.  Wanted to come out this morning, the better of the greens, and try and shoot a good one.   
Obviously the weather we've had this morning has been a bit up-and-down, starting out, and it's brutally cold and drizzling rain and get soaking wet and wind died a bit.  So managed to take advantage of what was pretty good conditions.   
You still have to hit the fairway, because at times, I missed the fairway and the rough was very, very wet, very thick.  So it was still tricky out there but yeah, managed to play really solid and the putter was pretty good.  Missed a few short ones but then I holed a couple really long ones, which you know, you're trying to hole but you're not expecting to.  All in all, it was a really good day.   
 Q.  The long putt on 8 nearly dropped for you, as well.  
ROSS FISHER: I hit a couple of good putts coming in, a couple of good iron shots to make two in a row after making a poor six on the third.   
Yeah, obviously hit a good putt on 8.  Got a good read of Russell.  It was not as slow as you think because he raced his one past and caught quite a lot of the lip there.  It was a shame it didn't drop.   
Gave myself a good look on 9 and just slipped by.  Not going to complain, two rounds down, 5-under par and in good shape going into the weekend.   
 Q.  I don't think you've made the Top-20 here.  How difficult is it to maintain form over four days on this golf course?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it is very.  It's not been a happy hunting ground here.  I have to say, I played it when I was first a pro.  I just didn't really see it around here at all.  It always falled in a busy stretch before The Open and it was one I didn't usually play because I really like Germany, and always like to play Scottish before The Open.   
It took, I'd imagine, probably a good four years of playing here just to prep for The Open and then came back last year and finally cracked it, made the cut.  Still finished over par.  But I felt like I could finally see my way around the golf course, and obviously it's a big year this year and next year, what with it being Ryder Cup and also obviously now with it being a Rolex Series Event.  It made it all the more worthwhile to come and play.   
I feel rested and fresh after not playing Germany last week.  Had a good week off and playing this week.  You know, it's worked out, so far, so good, and hopefully two more good, solid days and see where that puts me come Sunday evening.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT