BMW PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2017
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tremendous round of golf around a place you love?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it was solid.  A couple of silly mistakes.  A couple of holes I'd like to have back.  Making 6 on a par five is never what you want to do.  I made 6 on 12, bounced back with a birdie on 13, tough hole.  And obviously made 6 on 17 which was a shame but nice to birdie the last and shoot 4-under, obviously it's a solid start.
Q. As someone who grew up playing this golf course, it's undergone a lot of changes.  How does it look now?  How does it play now?
ROSS FISHER: I think it's probably the best it's ever been.  I played with Keith Pelley a couple weeks ago, and I knew it was going to be good but I didn't realise it would be this good.  I have to say, having been a junior here from '94 till I think 2009, 2010 I was a member here, and obviously 2009 was the last year before they changed it, I was a bit gutted because I finished second that year.
I would say it's better now than when we used to play, especially when I played as a junior.  It's just in great condition.  It's a lot better aesthetically on the eye.  It's just playing really well.  It's quite firm, it's quite fast and we have some great weather.  We had a few years of dodgy weather here, so any time you get this course in perfect shape, nice, warm temperatures and you see the crowds out there, it's just a great, fun tournament to be at.
Q. Because of your ties to the area and this golf course and because you've come so close, what would your reaction be to coming one better and taking home that trophy on Sunday?
ROSS FISHER: It would be nice.  Long way to go.  There's only one round down, three to go.  I've got to do the same thing tomorrow.  Just try and give myself a chance on the weekend.  The weather is going to be good.
Game feels in really, really good shape, even though I missed the cut at THE PLAYERS, it's been really good this year.  Signs are good, so I'm happy.  The Pro-Am yesterday, I shot a nice 7-under yesterday.  Felt really comfortable on the course.  Really, really like it.  Feels like it sets up for me, so it was nice to go out there and shoot 68.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT