WGC DELL TECHNOLOGIES MATCH PLAY
March 24, 2017
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well done.  You got yourself in a playoff against a major champion.  You couldn't have played it much better, could you?
ROSS FISHER: Obviously.  First and foremost, just playing Jim this morning, managed to play really well this morning.  I want to say I was good few under par when I beat Jim.  It was a tough game.  Just really wanted to focus on my match.  I wasn't looking at the board to see what Louis and Hideki were doing.  I actually saw at one point I think Louis was 5-up.  I knew I needed to close the match out.
Finished on 16 and get told I have got about 25 minutes.  Scampered to get to the first tee.  Literally got to the chipping green about 20 past 3:00, managed to loosen up with a few chip shots.  Hit a decent job down the first, didn't quite get in the fairway.  Had a gap through the trees there and hit a lovely shot in, hit a good putt.
Then obviously we both hit good drives down the second, and then obviously I had the advantage with the second shot.  To see Louis cozy it up, I knew I had to knock it in.  I didn't want to go anymore holes.  Relieved to see it drop in the middle and move on to tomorrow.
Q. That did look like emotion.  Was it relief when it dropped in?
ROSS FISHER: It was a bit yesterday as well.  Hideki was struggling.  I played really well.  I had chances to really close the match out.  Couple of scruffy shots, hit it in water on 11, hit a bunker shot in the water on 12.  Then stiffed on 13.  And you think you try to close the game out and messed up 14.  I kind of wanted to close the game out early with Jim this morning so I had a bit of energy for the playoff.  Obviously was a delighted to get through that.
Can't rest now.  I've got a big game tomorrow against Bubba.  Early doors tomorrow.  He's obviously playing well.  I think he won all three of his games.  It's going to be a lot of fun, looking forward to it.  It's going to be a challenge.
Q. Regardless of what happens over the weekend, it now looks as though you know where you are going to be the week after next?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, that was obviously my goal.  I still thought I had to beat Louis in the playoff to get there because Woody said to me walking down to the car after we won, he said, well, one thing is for sure, mate, you will be playing again in two weeks time.  I wasn't so sure, so I wasn't taking it for granted.  I knew I wanted to get through the group and take out Louis.  Obviously I managed to do that.  Thankfully that will be a trip back to Augusta, which I'm thoroughly looking forward to.  The kids will be there.  I will try and get there early, make sure I get a tee time so Harry and Eve can caddie for me in the par 3, which is obviously a dream come true.
Q. Great finish.
ROSS FISHER: Really proud.  I knew it was going to be a tough game against Jim.  Gritty competitor.  Played him a couple of times in match play.  Managed to get the better of him before.  I just wanted to come out and play solid.  I felt like I got off to a great start birdieing the first and second and never looked back.  Jim threw a couple of blows at me.  I was cruising after that at 4 up and then he birdies 9.  I'm still in good shape at 3-up and then he dunks it on 13 to go back to two.  Your heart is going a little bit.  Couple good holes, let's try and close this out.  Managed to close it out on 16, then I'm told you are in a playoff and I think it was 20, 25 minutes.  That actually probably worked in my favor.  I didn't have much time to think about it.  It was literally in the car, back to the clubhouse, probably half a dozen chips in the chipping green and then straight to the first tee.  Gave myself a good look on 1 and then obviously have another look on 2 and I wanted to make that putt because I didn't want to go any further.  To see it drop in to advance to tomorrow, obviously very, very satisfying.
Q. You were going to try not to think about qualifying for the Masters.  It looks like you have assured yourself an invitation from Augusta National.  What does that mean to you?
ROSS FISHER: It means a lot.  I kind of thought Mexico was maybe the last chance.  Had a great finish there which enabled to get in this week.  I knew this was my chance.  Like I said to you on Tuesday, I think, it was, I said, I'm not think about Augusta.  I'm just thinking about the match play, about three tough games.  If I can get through the group, fingers crossed, that will be good enough.  Still don't know 100 percent, but it feels like I've done enough to get there.  Obviously to be going back to Augusta, Magnolia Lane and to be able to take the two kids, Harry and Eve, get there early enough so I get a tee time on the par-3 to see those guys walk around on the par-3, probably the best golf course in the whole entire world will be a truly memorable occasion.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT