NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 10, 2016
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on finishing in the lead?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, delighted.  I was working my butt off to birdie the last I have to say.  After bogeying 17, hit a decent drive there.  Just had no shot really and did well to salvage bogey.  Wanted to try to make birdie because I let a few chances slip on the back side.
Didn't have much choice because 5-wood was kind of bringing the bunker into play so I had to hit 3-iron and I think I had 202, 187 downbreeze and just ripped a 7-iron in there and it pitched about 200 yards.  Left myself a good look at birdie and myself and Woody read it really well, took our time and was very pleased to see it drop, and 68 is a great start.
Q. Clearly a change at the Nedbank, a lot bigger field.  Does it still help you that you have the serious and you were second to Danny, so you know it so well.
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I think so.  I think the more you play this course, the more you understand how to play it.  There's times where you can be aggressive and there's times where you need to be strategic.
But at the same time, you always know around here, you look at the walk up to the 9th green, you see all the scores, 22-, 24-, 18-, 20-under par, you know you have to shoot really low scores to have a chance around here.
At the same point, you've got to be strategic.  I like to be quite a aggressive around here.  Hit driver quite a bit.  Try and give myself good looks at birdies.  Try and attack the par 5s.  I felt like I did that pretty well today.
I didn't drive it particularly well with the driver but never really got into too much trouble.  Played a little bit defensive on some holes where in the past I would have taken driver, but it seemed to work pretty well today.
Q. Given 4-under par is the lead, it's likely to be more modest scoring, tougher track?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, potentially.  I think it's a lot more penal if you miss fairways.  You can miss the fairway about five to eight yards and you're okay.  Any wider than that and the rough is really penal and around the greens, as well.  You miss the green by five yards, you can get some really thick, brutal lies out there.
You have to try and hit fairways, which I didn't do particularly well today, but like I say, when I missed fairways, I was in okay spots, apart from maybe No. 9, I was kind of up against the trees near the fence there, so I didn't really have much choice there, and then 17.
But apart from that, when I missed the fairway, I was okay and able to go for greens.  Yeah, maybe scoring might not be quite as deep but for me I'm still of the mind-set to go out there and attack and try and make as many birdies as I can and try and shoot as low as possible score that I can.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT