WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 29, 2016
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Pleased with that?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I'd say reasonably pleased.  It was good fun out there today.  Obviously always going to have a big crowd playing with Rory and the Chinese local guy.  We had fun out there.  Played pretty nice.  The front nine was a little up-and-down, a couple bogeys, a few birdies.  Then played a little bit more steady on the back side, and obviously the highlight, making 2 on 16.   
Disappointing not to be able to go for the last on 18 in two.  Obviously just missed the fairway there but had a good look at birdie, just missed it.  So 69, minus ten, it's three decent days.   
 Q.  You've played in front of big crowds the world over.  What's it like playing in front of a crowd like this in China?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I mean, it's good fun.  They appreciate good shots.  They get more and more knowledgeable every time we come here.  I remember playing here in, I think it was end of 2009 and I got paired with Tiger and Thongchai, so that was a brilliant experience the first two days.  And obviously today playing with Rory and the local Chinese guy, we knew there was going to be big crowds.  But they were controlled and there wasn't too many phones going off, too many cameras.   
So yeah, it was good fun.  It's always nice to play in front of big crowds.  That's what we dream about doing is playing in the biggest events, playing in front of people, and hopefully trying to put on a show.   
 Q.  Put an extra spring in your step; do you feel involved?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, definitely.  We were third last group, so obviously Hideki has played great the first two days.  Got it to 13-under, so kind of knew I had to go out there and shoot a low one and just didn't quite happen.  But still, that's three days breaking 70, which is great.  Yesterday I was really pleased with 68 because it was tough, tough conditions.   
Puts me in a good spot tomorrow and hopefully we'll have a nice, relaxed evening, get up and go through it again tomorrow.  The weather was a little bit chilly today, so fingers crossed, we can have slightly nicer weather tomorrow, but it all depends on what Hideki and some of the other guys finish on; whether I'll be too far behind or not.   
But having said that, I remember Danny shot 62 I think the last day, so it can definitely be done.  But you've just got to play very, very well.  I've shot low here in the past.  I think Saturday last year I might have shot 65 on the Saturday.   
So yeah, it's one of those courses where you need to get off to a good start.  The first is a tough hole this week, playing into the wind.  You hit good drives in the par 5s, you can get there in two.  So if you can get to 4- or 5-under par after nine, you know, try and keep that going on the back nine and hopefully shoot a low number.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT