ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 6, 2016
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You must be pleased with that?  
ROSS FISHER: I’m obviously very pleased with the way round, and it’s a good continuation of the form I showed in Germany a couple of weeks back. Kingsbarns is normally the easier of the three courses so you know you have to make a decent score here, but when the wind blows here it’s anything but easy, because some holes are very exposed to the elements. So I’m delighted with seven under to start.   
 Q.  How tough was it in the wind?  
ROSS FISHER: It’s a different wind to the one we experienced in practice, it completely flipped around so it was almost like playing a different course. So it took a few holes to get into the round and get used to the conditions, but the birdie on 16 got me off and running and I didn’t look back after that.   
 Q.  What were the highlights?  
ROSS FISHER: The eagle on three was obviously the highlight, and to finish with another birdie on the ninth was the icing on the cake. But I’m almost more pleased to have kept the bogeys off my card, because it’s not an easy course in those conditions.   
 Q.  Looking forward to playing St Andrews?  
ROSS FISHER: You never get tired of playing St Andrews, it’s the Home of Golf and it’s always a privilege to play there. It all depends on the weather at St Andrews, if the wind gets up then level par could be a decent score, but if it stays calm you can obviously take advantage. But whatever the weather, I always love playing the Old Course.   
 Q.  You enjoy this format?  
ROSS FISHER: The Pro-Am experience and atmosphere is great, I love it. It’s a lot more laidback than we’re used to, and it makes for a lovely change. Obviously it means the rounds can take a lot longer, but we still had fun out there.   
 Q.  Take you a while to get over your play-off defeat?  
ROSS FISHER: I was obviously disappointed not to have finished it off in Germany, but if you’d offered me a play-off at the start of the final day, when I was five shots behind, I would’ve taken it. I haven’t won a play-off yet so I’d like to get that monkey off my back, but if I keep putting myself in those positions, one day one will go my way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT