DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
May 19, 2016
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Put into context how good a round this 3-under par is?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I'm delighted.  I played some really good golf.  Started out, I think I was the only one here this morning on the range in a short sleeved shirt and everyone was kind of taking the mick out of me.  I felt okay.  Put my sleeves on to keep me a little bit warmer.   
Got off to a decent start.  Made a really good save on 11, and I think birdied 13, 14 and was playing really nicely and unfortunately just didn't judge the wind correctly on 16.  Hit it in the water and made 7.   
But I bounced back nicely with a couple of birdies, a few loose swings on the front nine, but to birdie 9 and shoot 3-under, in the conditions we had this morning, obviously really, really pleased.   
 Q.  You are a former Irish Open Champion, you've been here so many times, and you know what to expect, don't you?  
ROSS FISHER: I've always enjoyed coming here.  Different course to where I won in Killarney but it was exciting to come here, because I think I've played here back in 2006, 2007, but on the other golf course, and obviously having seen The Ryder Cup around the course, I was quite looking forward to coming here.   
Playing the Pro-Am, I felt like the course really set up well for me.  Feels like you need to drive the ball well, which is one of my strengths, and the greens are so pure, which has not been one of my strengths, but I felt really comfortable after the Pro-Am and I think it showed today.   
I felt like I putted nicely and got the speed of the greens reasonably well.  They are sneaky quick.  So you've got to be careful, because you can easily have 6- , 8-footers, coming back for par.   
Overall, like you say, 3-under, I'm delighted, and it's a good, solid start.   
 Q.  Any particular Ryder Cup memories from The K Club?  
ROSS FISHER: Big one, obviously Clarkey when I won his match, pouring his heart out playing after obviously what he had been through; Casey having a hole-in-one, and just remembering some of the holes that came back, and obviously the atmosphere obviously you get at Ryder Cups is amazing.   
Even today, despite the weather, there was a lot of people following.  Felt very appreciative of Jo and my two kids and mother- and father-in-law walking around, braved the weather.  To walk around most of 18 holes, they did very well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT