PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 17, 2019
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about the round again today.  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, the golf course is playing fantastic.  You know, played solid today.  Good front nine, level par, a couple of birdies, couple of bogeys, and then seemed to catch on on the back nine in the middle of the round there.   
Had a lovely wedge shot to literally tap-in distance at the par 5 13th, hit a lovely shot into the par 3 14 to 2 1/2, 3 feet.  And followed that up with two good shots on 15.  So to do that whole is always very nice.   
I still have work to do.  Had a really good second putt on 16 there from a good 10 or 12 feet after running the first one way by.  Disappointing to drop one on the last, but overall can't be to disappointed with 67 round here.   
 Q.  Can you compare Bethpage to (indiscernible)?  
ROSS FISHER: I mean, it's similar, but it's nowhere near as tough.  You know, the rough is still penal, but I think the thickest stuff in the fescue came into play a hell of a lot more in '09 when we played the U.S. Open here.  You know, most of the time at the U.S. Open, if you missed the fairway you were struggling to advance it very, very far.  Whereas I had a couple here on 5 and 6, 5 I had an 8-iron and chanced my luck and managed to advance it a fair way forwards.   
And then with the wedge, wedge is not too bad, but anything more than a 9-iron, 8-iron, you're going to struggle.   So like I said before, premium is hitting the fairway, but if you're hitting the fairway and you're not hitting it far enough off the tee, you are going to wear your long irons out.   
 Q.  What are you looking to do tonight, this afternoon to prepare for tomorrow morning?  
ROSS FISHER: Not much.  Just get some food, maybe hit a few balls.  I'm not going to wear myself out.  It's a major.  It's a long week.  Conserve my energy and not burn myself out.  It's a long golf course.  So it's not only physically tiring, it's mentally draining because there's 18 tough holes out there, and like I say, you cannot let up for one second.  There's no easy hole-out there.  Even the couple of short holes you play, you think, oh, it's an easy hole, it's a short hole.  Soon as you miss the fairway, you're struggling to make par.  You've got to keep the mental aspect switched on for 5, 5 1/2 hours.  It's pretty tiring, so there won't be a lot of practice coming from my side this afternoon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT