EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 17, 2016
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How satisfying is it to be on the winning side?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, obviously it's tremendous.  It was always in our hands, so to speak.  We had such a good lead.  But you know, the Asian boys, you always think they are going to come out fighting, home turf, they are used to the grass, used to the grain on the greens, and so you know, to come out on top and to win, not only just win, but to win obviously convincingly like we are going at the moment is fantastic.   
Obviously from a personal standpoint to, win two matches, and obviously to halve today -- I knew it was going to be a tough game.  Played Wang yesterday in the foursomes.  He's a great young player.  I think maybe he might have maybe made one bogey.  I didn't make a bogey.  So it was a really high-quality game.  I think we were both definitely a few under par.  And to be fair, I kind of expected him to hole it on the last, so an all-square match was obviously disappointing for myself to be 1-up with one two play but I think it was a very fair result.   
There's still a lot of pride at stake.  Darren said and Poults said, as well, in the team room last night:  Don't look at the board, it can be very easy to look at the board but as soon as you see a few blue numbers on the board, you kind of relax and you think, my game doesn't matter, but it does.  We wanted to win the singles session, which I believe we are I think currently doing at the moment.   
So to win all three sessions is what we set out to do. Clarkey reiterated that point.  He said go out there, the board is irrelevant, your match is the only thing.  You and your caddie, you go out and win your match.  That's all I want to you do.  Don't concentrate on anything else, just win your match.  I think that showed today with the 12 boys out there at the moment.   
 Q.  What do you take from the half-point in this match?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, a bit of mixed emotions.  Obviously 1-up with one to play but we had a great game.  Wang is a great young talent.  Played each other yesterday in the foursomes.  Obviously I got him in the draw for singles so I knew it was going to be a tough game.   
I think with that putt there on the last, I didn't drop a shot, so I didn't give any holes away.  When he won a hole, we won it with birdie.  I think I won one hole with a par on 9 but all the other holes were won with birdies.  It was a high-quality game.  I had a few chances on 16 and 17.  It was obviously a shame to see him miss that one on 17.  A little bit unlucky on the last with the lie in the rough there, but I had a great chip-and-putt the pressure on him and he duly obliged and knocked it in.  To be fair, a half-match was a very fair result.   
 Q.  Sounds like you take a lot of satisfaction from your own personal play across the whole week, it's been a lovely team position --  
ROSS FISHER: It has been fantastic.  I didn't play the last one because it didn't really fit my schedule, and to be honest, I wasn't going to play this one.  I was thinking, my usual preparation is to go away for Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Dubai and do the three in the desert.  It was really nice, Darren pulled me aside at the players' party on Sunday and he said:  I know you're not sure, but I really would love to you play, I really want you on the team.  We haven't got many experienced guys apart from Westy, Poults and Victor.  You've been there and you've experienced Ryder Cup, so I'll just leave it with you.  I would love you to play.  I think you would be a great asset to the team.   
To hear someone of Darren's stature talk about me in that way, my decision was made.  I'm glad he came up to me and spoke to me and I'm glad I changed my mind to come play.  It's been up there with The Ryder Cup.  It's been a fantastic week.  The boys have gelled really well.  Darren, all the backroom staff, have done a fantastic job.  We've had so much fun with all the boys, team meeting, playing FIFA, pool and table tennis.  It's been so much fun and such a relaxed week.  Everyone's made friendships that will carry on for a very long time.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT