EURASIA CUP PRESENTED BY DRB-HICOM
January 15, 2016
Ross Fisher
Kristoffer Broberg
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  To get a point, very sweet?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, definitely.  I didn't really have an inkling me and Kris were going to play together until probably Thursday, so I was quite excited.  And Clarkey explained why he put us together:  Apparently we make the most birdies together as a pairing.   
So we were really up for the challenge come the first tee, and just kept saying to each other, come on, let's keep the pedal down.  Let's just two balls in play, that's what Clarkey reiterated to us last night at the meeting and that's what we tried to do today.  Put two balls in play, put two balls on the green and give ourselves looks at birdies.  We made a bunch today and delighted to be finished early.   
 Q.  Which presumably is hugely satisfying because you looked in control of that match throughout?  
KRISTOFFER BROBERG: I didn't play that good today.  I'm so happy to have Ross on my side today.  I was a little off on the tee but I'm glad we win today, so I'm very happy for me and Ross.   
 Q.  When you get ahead early, presumably that helps with the confidence and keeps the momentum rolling?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, we got up pretty early on.  There was a couple of key moments there.  I think they were looking at making birdie and I thought I snuck in there ahead of them and then just when we were looking like we could maybe lose a couple holes, Kris made a great birdie on 10, I think it was.   
We lost a hole to the par 5, which was disappointing but we bounced straight back with a great birdie from Kris on the following hole.  Every time we got up, we were just like, let's keep the pedal down.  We want to win and we want to win big so we can relax and get out of this heat and save energy.   
 Q.  You sound like you're not entirely satisfied with your game, but the putter was working very nicely on occasions, wasn't it?  
KRISTOFFER BROBERG: The putter is pretty hot at the moment.  I'm pleased with that.  But I need to step up my game for the foursomes.  I need to do some practice this afternoon.   
 Q.  And this heat, how are you coping?  
KRISTOFFER BROBERG: Boiling out there.  It's like a sauna.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT