BMW MASTERS
November 14, 2015
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What then are your thoughts on shooting a 67 to get right back in it?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, very pleased.  Played nicely today.  Unfortunate blip on nine with the 3-putt there.  Just misjudged the speed, and back nine just played really solid.  A highlight chipping in on 17 from short of the green was nice, and then it was really nice to get that one up-and-down on the last.   
Yeah, to get around in 67, obviously minus 12, a few behind, but like you say, right in there coming into tomorrow.   
 Q.  Still tricky out there, isn't it; the sun is on your back which probably helps but it's still breezy.  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, myself, Victor and Pete were just commenting on how good the scoring was.  It's not easy out there.  You see the scores yesterday, obviously Pete shot 66 yesterday when it was cold and windy.  Today obviously I had a look at the leader poured, Thomas Pieters shot 63 and there's a few 64s.  TJ is playing great golf, he's 6- or 7-under.  It's there, but it's by no means easy.   
 Q.  You can hear the crowds and they are out in their force today.  Presumably that adds to the feeling of being in a championship?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, there was a bit more atmosphere today I must say.  We were actually joking about it, the three of us.  I think Pete said he played with Lucas and he was going on a tear yesterday, and obviously Pete made I think seven in a row and he said no one was out there.   
It's nice that there was a bit more crowd, so it was nice to get a few cheers, a few roars.  So, yeah, it was nice, and hopefully there will be some more to come tomorrow.   
 Q.  With memories of your Sunday here last year, does it make you all the more excited about the chance to come tomorrow?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, definitely.  I hope it blows strong like it did last year, that would be great.  Just got to keep doing what I'm doing and see how far behind I am going into tomorrow.  But game is in good shape and no reason why I can't go out there and shoot something in the 60s and see where that puts me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT