BMW MASTERS
November 12, 2015
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I take it that wasn't too stressful a round, a 66 to start.
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, very pleased.  Just played really solid, really.  Drove it pretty solid.  Don't really remember missing too many fairways.  Yeah, I hit a lot of the greens and was reading the putts really well.
You know, it felt very similar to Sunday at HSBC on the greens.  I just felt like I saw the lines and I had the speed dialed in.  I had a few putts that slipped by but to finish, especially birdieing on 8 where I hit a good 4-iron in, and then obviously 9, to birdie that was a bonus.  Yeah, 66 is going to make lunch taste pretty sweet.
Q. Prior to the event, certainly there was the feeling that you played well here last year, so let's hope it kicks on.  Did it help, that knowledge of playing so well a year ago?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I think so.  I just enjoy the course.  I feel like it sets up well for me.  It's a long golf course.   You need to put the ball in the fairway, especially this being the first week in five where we're not placing.  So we were kind of laughing and joking walking off the 10th making sure we didn't have a hand in our pocket reaching for our tee.
Yeah, it's a little different, but today was tricky.  Started off and it was okay, and then got really dark and really grey and miserable with the light drizzle.  Made the course play extremely long.  Course setup, they weren't too kind to us.  It was a lot of back tees and a lot of back pins, so it played tough.  To get out unscathed and shoot 66, I'm obviously very pleased.
Q. Extremely long but lots of good, low scores, so there are possibilities, opportunities out there?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, definitely.  You know, it's very similar to last week.  It's a star-studded field, a lot of quality players.  So I'd imagine if we get some reasonable weather, the scoring is going to be pretty good.  I forget what got into the playoff last year.  I'm guessing it was maybe 15, 16, possibly last year.  I can't really remember.
You see Sergio is 8 at the moment, so you would guess it's going to be definitely high teens, maybe close to 20, obviously weather dependent.
Q. So what happened the last couple days, you tried to extend your visa?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I found out, I think it was the week of Turkey, I found out that the visa that I had been issued from the embassy back home was only giving me a ten-day visa, so obviously it's not going to be enough.  Kieron spoke to me and he said, we can do it on the Monday of this tournament.
So got HSBC out of the way.  Stayed in town.  Went to the exit entry point with all what we thought was the correct documents, and got told, no, sorry, can't do anything.
So the woman actually said, if you want to change it, you need to go to Beijing, because that's where the visa was originally issued.  So, you know, I have Kieron on the case.  Fortunately Soon from BMW got us in touch with Yana, a local Chinese lady, that was extremely helpful.  Having someone that spoke Chinese got us over the mark really.
Yeah, there was a lot of papers flying around, a lot of phone calls, e-mails being sent.  Unfortunately we had to go back on the Tuesday with the correct documents.  And fortunately, I think it was the Chinese Sports Agency or Shanghai Sports Agency, gave us a letter and fortunately we accepted that.  So Kieron actually has to go into Shanghai this evening at half past four to pick up my passport with my extended Visa.
To say it was a stressful build up to today would be an understatement.  There was times when I was thinking, I might be booking a flight to go home.  So I'm just thankful they got it sorted, got resolved and managed to tee it up today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT