WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 8, 2015
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on the whole and the way it's panned out on the final day?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, obviously delighted.  Obviously shame to come up a little bit shy, but I gave it a good go.  Felt like I played some really good golf.  Gave myself a lot of looks at birdie.  And then made a few good par putts on the front nine to keep me in it.   
And then yeah, back nine, played nice.  Made a couple real good birdies, a couple of real good saves.  Especially on 13, and then a bit unlucky on 14, really, hit two lovely shots there and didn't have a great lie there and 15, unfortunately hit it the worst I hit it all week.  Just pushed it from about three or four feet.  It's a shame but bounced back strong and hit a fabulous shot into 17, made birdie there.  18, a little disappointed to see it close to three feet and tap-in for par and look around and see tied second at the moment.  Pretty pleased.   
 Q.  That's something in itself at a WGC event to be tied second, isn't it.  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I've been there before.  Lost in a playoff, one I probably let slip a little bit a few years ago.  I learned from those experiences.  And it's just nice to be in the mix in such a big tournament.   
I've missed the buzz, the adrenaline, and that's what we live to play this game for.  We want to be in the mix.  It's great fun playing with Jordan, two-time major champion this year.  He's had a phenomenal year.  He's just a pleasure to play with and obviously the local Chinese guy, it was pretty intense out there with the crowd.  But you know, he finished off very strong and it was just a great three ball to be a part of.   
 Q.  And that expression, finishing off strong, Final Series, it's all looking pretty good.  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, obviously disappointed last week in Turkey, a course that I enjoyed and had done well previous years.   
Obviously here, nice to be back.  Haven't been here for a few years.  Obviously losing in a playoff, I knew this course suited my game.  So it's nice to find some form going into obviously next week where I lost in a playoff there last year.   
It bodes well for the next two weeks.  Just going to enjoy this.  Have a few days off and then get myself ready for Tuesday mid-day for a shotgun start with my amateur partners.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT