THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ROSS FISHER: I didn't play particularly well.  Got off to a terrible start, and then kind of hung in there a bit, and then when I missed it, I missed it in the wrong spots.  I then hit three great shots into the last three holes and only made one putt.  Overall level par is a bit disappointing, really.Q. How tough was it this weekend?ROSS FISHER: I've been fine.  I didn't play yesterday, so I came up with the intention of getting physio at half past 3:00 thinking everyone was going to go by 4:00, and unfortunately got delayed again.  You know, I hit some balls for a half hour just to keep the body loose and just get the feeling of hitting golf balls in a strong winds.  And then just chilled out, relaxed, watched a bit of the tennis in the morning, a bit of the cricket, and then watched the conclusion of the golf last night, and just basically took it easy most of the day.Q. (Inaudible.)ROSS FISHER: Just going to go out there and shoot as good as I can.  I feel like I've played a lot better than my score suggests, like today probably not so good.  Like I say, I got off to a horrible start.  I parred the first and didn't hit a great drive off 2, hit the green, and then four-putted for a double, and then drive it in the bunker, hit it on, make 5.  So sort of 3-over after three holes, and obviously G-Mac was flying with a couple of birdies there. The scoring was always going to be good because I dressed for the cold and the rain, and it disappeared and the sun came out.  It was roasting out there at some point.  Unfortunately the golf wasn't as hot as the weather.Q. (Inaudible.)ROSS FISHER: I mean, it depends what the weather does, what Dustin is, 10, at the moment, but there's barely any wind.  I'd be very surprised if he didn't shoot 67, 66, the length he hits it.  If the wind stays the same, he can easily reach both par-5s.  He can knock it on 9.  He can probably knock it very close to 10.  He can probably knock it on 12 and get it very close to 18.  But it's one of those golf courses where if you're slightly off your game and you miss it in the wrong spots, you can very easily, and myself and Graeme showed, Graeme played great today, but he still made two double bogeys from nowhere.  It's that sort of golf course.  You've got to get the good breaks.  You've got to hit it in the correct spots, and at the end of the day, it comes down to holing the putts.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT