THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2015
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Sum up the round.  Seemed like it was a bit easier to score than the back nine?  ROSS FISHER: Yeah, it was.  Starting off there wasn't an awful lot of breeze out there, and obviously starting at 8:11 there was a lot of guys that had already started and you kind of sneak a look at the leaderboard and you see people getting off to flying starts.  You know, I didn't get off to the best of starts, but made some birdies, and got it under par out around the turn.  Gave myself a few chances, couldn't really make anything, and then struggled a little bit off the tees in the crosswinds, and then unfortunately addressed the ball on the middle of the fairway on 16 and the ball moved.  Kind of had to call a penalty on myself there.  That was kind of a kick in the teeth there. But nice to obviously par 17 and hole a putt on the last to get me into red figures.  So yeah, pretty pleased.   Q.  Did you have the best of the conditions early on do you think?  ROSS FISHER: Yeah, definitely.  I'd say probably from about I'd say 14, 15, it started to get really cold.  You know, we had some sunshine out there, I believe I was in a short sleeved shirt at one point and the sun quickly disappeared and the breeze was picking up.  I'd imagine for the guys teeing off now and later if it stays like this, it's getting a lot colder than when we were first out there, and the wind doesn't seem to be easing off.  I'd say it will be pretty tricky out there this afternoon.   Q.  It looks like it's going to be pretty severe in the coming days.  ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I haven't really looked at the forecast.  I think any time you look at the forecast and believe what it's going to do, I think you kind of throw that out the window.  You get what you're given.  There's been umpteen times where we've pitched up at the tournament for a round of golf and seen the forecast and it's been completely different, and St. Andrews is no different.  It almost has its own little weather forecast for just this area.  I've heard that it's not supposed to be great later on today all the way through until tomorrow morning, I think rain, but I think we could get some very strong winds tomorrow for our afternoon round.  It's going to be a stern test of golf but one that you look forward to.   Q.  You've got a fair bit of time before you play your next round.  How do you fill the time in?  ROSS FISHER: Probably go back to eat, go and get some physio, and then go back and see my wife and kids and chill out.  I don't think there's going to be many balls hit because obviously the range I would guess will be a cross wind, so I might hit a few balls, but I'm not going to do too much.  Just as I said to you at the start of the week, Open Championships are majors.  You need a lot of rest because it's a long, tiring week.  I'm going to go back and have some family time and recharge the batteries and come out tomorrow afternoon.   Q.  What were your feelings coming into this event?  You've had sort of an up-and-down year.  ROSS FISHER: Yeah, feelings were obviously very good.  Coming off the back of a top 10 last week, played really well at Gullane, found some form, felt like I did my preparation for this week really well.  I missed Paris so I could come up and play St. Andrews on the Sunday and the Monday, so I got 33 holes done.  And like I say, playing there last week on a links course with linksey conditions, the breeze was pretty strong on the weekend.  I feel like I couldn't really have prepared myself any better than what I have done.  I kind of took it relatively easy this week, tried to conserve the energy, played nine holes Tuesday, nine holes Wednesday because at the end of the day, St. Andrews, we've played it umpteen times for Dunhill Links.  I've played it a lot of times as an amateur.  I was fortunate to play here in 2010.  It's not like I need to go out and familiarise myself with the golf course.  It hasn't changed.  Just a lot of rest and hopefully come back and have a good one tomorrow.   Q.  Highlight of the round for you?  ROSS FISHER: Probably birdie on the last.  After the ball moved on 16, you know, it was a bit of a kick in the teeth, especially after dropping one on 15, so it was nice to par 17 and try and give myself a chance on the last, and didn't hit the best of second shots in there, but trusted my read that it was going to break quite a lot, and to see it fall in and shoot 1-under par, I can go back and relax.   Q.  How far was that putt?  ROSS FISHER: It was probably 18 feet.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT