NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE
December 7, 2014
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What is your verdict on this week? 
ROSS FISHER:   Delighted.   Felt like I played great all week.   Finally started to hole a few putts today which was nice, but unfortunately for me and Luke, Danny was too good.   Played some great golf. 
I had my chances to try and get in there close to him.   A few holes to play, I had a great look at birdie on 16 to get to two behind and unfortunately 17 was right in between two clubs and couldn't hit the sand wedge because I thought it was going to spin too much.   Disappointing not to birdie the last but overall, second on my own, can't be too disappointed, can I. 

Q.   Given the start of a new Race to Dubai, all the better?
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, obviously delighted to get off to a good start.   Hats off to Danny, he played great today. 
I'm delighted the way I finished this season off.   I've been playing some really good golf for a long time and it just nice seeing the results starting to come good.   Had a chance obviously in China finishing runner‑up there.   Turkey and Dubai, I played well, and this week, I felt like I played really well all week. 
Unfortunately two days I played pretty good, two days I played poorly, and that's what's cost me this week.   Can't take anything away from Danny.   He's played fantastic.   Congratulations to him.

Q.   Aside from running for a flight, can you put the clubs away?
ROSS FISHER:   I'm not going to see a club until probably the 5th of January.   Going to enjoy some time at home with Jo and the family, and going to fly to Lake Nona on the 4th of January for a week's of practice with Denis, and I have Dave Stockton, Jr. flying in to do a couple days putting with me, and fingers crossed I'll be ready to go in Abu Dhabi I. 
Danny, he was impressive, played great.   Barely missed a shot.   When he got in trouble, he looked like he was going to drop a shot, played a great bunker shot on 6, plugged lie in the back bunker.   14, made a great birdie there. 
So I don't think me and Luke could be too disappointed.   We didn't lose it.   Danny went out and won the tournament.   Congratulations to him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT