NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE
December 6, 2014
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What are your thoughts on the way things have panned out today?
ROSS FISHER:   Obviously great way to finish, birdieing the last.   But yeah, obviously another tough day.   I felt like I probably played better than my score suggested, 2‑under again. 
Similar story to yesterday.   Felt like I hit it pretty good, gave myself a lot of chances and just couldn't buy a putt.   Hit a poor tee shot on the first and kind of got away with it, and unfortunately made five. 
After that, I played pretty good.   But like I say, I just unfortunately couldn't buy a putt.   Hit a slightly loose shot on 16, which was a shame.   But always nice to birdie that 18th hole.   I felt like I've hit some good shots in there and haven't got anything from it.   So from two days, to not hole a putt to finally hole one on 18, hopefully that gives me some confidence and momentum going into tomorrow.

Q.   And you'll know that Luke Donald was clear of you at one stage but definitely in sights now. 
ROSS FISHER:   Tomorrow is going to be a big day.   I just need to go out and play how I've been playing the first three days and how I putted on the first day.   If I do that, I feel like I've got a really good chance of winning it. 
Luke played steady for the most part.   He hit a couple of loose shots just around the turn after the turn, so you know, anything's possible.   Danny's played great today.   65 today was a great score.   Luke's 13, Danny's 12, I'm 10.   I need to go out there tomorrow and hopefully shoot a 66 or something a bit lower and if it's good enough, great, and if not, as long as I've given it my best, that's all I can ask for.

Q.   You said the first day how the three of you bounced off each other, nice to have three English guys together in the last, isn't it?
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, it will be fun.   Hopefully we can put on a show for the crowd and fire off some birdies there.   Hopefully the weather is kind to us tomorrow.   I've heard the forecast isn't looking too great, so fingers crossed we can get finished and hopefully I can finish, you want to say this season, but obviously it's the new season, this year off strong, and the new season off with a nice finish tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT