NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE
December 5, 2014
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Seemed like hard work out there today, make not as successful as yesterday but still moving in the right direction?
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, definitely.   You know, after 11 holes, a little bit disappointed to shoot 2‑under.   It's a tough golf course.   I don't feel like I played probably as solid as yesterday.   I didn't hit it as good off the tee. 
I still felt like I played pretty solid.   I hit one poor tee shot on 14 which cost me a 6 and had to take a penalty drop there.   Poor tee shot on 2, which I got away with.   12, didn't really think I hit that bad a tee shot.   It was right middle of the green and just drifted in the wind thinking it was going to end up in the draft and it pitched up over the trap and kicked 90 degrees into the bush. 
You've just got to grin and bear it.   Walked off with double there.   Was disappointing after going eagle, birdie, but I was still mindful that I had some chances coming in.   I still felt like I was playing good golf.   Apart from the 6 on 14, I gave myself a birdie putt on every hole bar 17.   17 was a bit of a freak there, still not quite sure how I hit a little 7‑iron over 180 metres.   
But unfortunately, whereas yesterday, we read the greens really well.   Today, just seemed like every putt we over‑borrowed.   I hit at least half a dozen, if not seven or eight putts that I hit exactly where I wanted to hit it, and just unfortunately was over reading the greens today. 
So they went in yesterday, they didn't today and hopefully tomorrow they will go in.

Q.   Do you keep an eye on what else was happening?   Did you see what Luke was doing with 9‑under?   Did you think that was out there, especially given what you did yesterday?
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, I think any golf course anywhere, there's always a low score out there.   But, you've got to go out and do it.   So hats off to Luke.   He obviously played fantastically well today.   You know, for myself, I got it to 5‑under after 11, so I was hoping to kick on and reproduce 66 from yesterday or even a little bit better. 
But unfortunately it wasn't meant to be, so I still shot under par, even with a couple of those loose shots coming in.   It would have been nice to have picked up a couple coming home, but 6‑under yesterday, 2‑under today, like you say, it's moving in the right direction and I'm only two shots behind with two rounds to go. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT