NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE
December 4, 2014
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MIKE GREEN:     Thanks so much for coming in.   It was a superlative round of golf out there today, third time at Nedbank Golf Challenge.   All familiar to you? 
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, obviously delighted to be back, having played here in 2009 and 2010, it's definitely one of the tournaments on I think everybody's mind after the majors and WGCs, you want to qualify for.   Before, it was very hard to qualify because there was only 12 spot, where now it's 30 players so it's a little easier.   But I left it I think pretty late to qualify.   Obviously I qualify through the Sunshine Tour Order of Merit, I would have got in, but thanks to my Race to Dubai, enabled me to come here and play.
Delighted to be back and feeding off good memories of the last two times I've been here and the victory at Tshwane.
MIKE GREEN:   You seemed to be driving it extra well today.
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, I felt like I drove it really good.   Didn't miss many fairways.   Everyone's got their own way of playing this golf course.   You can't really be too overly aggressive, but my style of golf, I like to hit driver a lot because I feel like I hit it quite long and I do generally hit it pretty straight. 
So I don't mind hitting driver here a lot, and that's what I wanted to do today.   There was a few holes where unfortunately I couldn't hit driver.   I had to hit 3‑woods.   18 was a hybrid but apart from that, I played exactly how I wanted to.   One kind of loose shot on 16 was a little bit disappointing, but apart from that, I felt like I hit the ball and struck the ball very, very nicely today.
MIKE GREEN:   When you played that shot on 16, did you think to yourself, this is just silly, it's going to penalise me quite badly.
ROSS FISHER:   No, I knew it was past the first trap and short of the second one.   So with there being no rough, I was just hoping it was just off the edge of the green and perched up.   Unfortunately it was not perched up enough, but there was a bit of high grass right behind the ball. 
So I couldn't quite play the shot I wanted to play.   I wanted to play a mid‑flight with a lot of spin on it and unfortunately it just came out a little bit hot.   But fortunately I got a great read off Marcel's putt.   I couldn't trust it was going to move as much left‑to‑right and we still played it left‑to‑right and unfortunately I just hit it too firm.   Can't always be perfect.   One bad shot in 18 holes, you can't be too disappointed with that. 
MIKE GREEN:   Great driver and great out of the blocks, as well.   You got behind that line really quickly on Marcel's put.
ROSS FISHER:   I knew it was on a similar line to mine.   I couldn't believe his putt didn't move left‑to‑right.   Myself and Willy had a good look at it and just couldn't bring ourselves to hit it less than what we thought.   So it was a shame, but like I say, to go around here one bogey and seven birdies, 6‑under, I'll definitely take that and run. 

Q.   Did you use much of the past experience that you had on the course today? 
ROSS FISHER:   I felt like I played it how I would have played it back in 2009, 2010.   Myself and Willy on Tuesday and Wednesday, obviously the Pro‑Am Tuesday and we played the back nine on Wednesday, trying to come up with a game plan, and there was a couple of holes where he had a different view to what I did. 
For instance, No. 13, the short par 4, I had always seen driver there and I hit driver there in 2009 and 2010 every single day.   Because I know with my ball flight here, if you hit it high, it stays in the air for a long time.   I always saw driver there where he saw less club just to putt it in play. 
We kind of hit two balls there Wednesday, and off the hybrid, I had like a 5‑, 6‑iron in, whereas off my driver, I had a wedge.   I was like, I think I'll be hitting driver there.   So I did today, and it paid off well.   But no, I think definitely feeding off the experiences of 2009 and 2010, I felt like I played really well those two years.   Hopefully shooting 6‑under today, I can go out there and play three more solid rounds, and all I can ask for is a chance to win on the back nine on Sunday. 

Q.   The par 5s, was that part of your game plan today‑‑
ROSS FISHER:   I think the par 5s are all scorable.   They are all reachable, but you've still got to hit two shots.   The second, I hit a really good driver and 3‑wood there.   So you have got to hit good shots. 
Obviously the one on the back side, 14, that's no gimmie birdie, because that was a good driver and a 3‑wood and then obviously 9 is surrounded by danger.   I think fortunately for me, I missed the fairway. 
So I didn't have the option of going for it in two, where the other two boys obviously did, and looking at their shots in the air, they got away with two loose shots to the right. 
So par 5s are quite key, but again, there's a lot more scorable holes out there.   There's quite a lot of short par 4s where if you get your driver in good position, you've got short irons into the greens, and the greens are putting well.   So as long as you can read the putts well, there's definitely some scorable holes out there. 
MIKE GREEN:   Thanks very much for your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT