BMW MASTERS
November 2, 2014
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, it was pretty tough out there.   The last few years here, I remember hitting mid‑irons to short irons to the 18th and it was blowing pretty hard.   I hit a decent drive.   I think, I forget what I had, but it was all of a 3‑wood and I absolutely killed a 3‑wood.   I didn't think I could really go at the pin. 
Thought I could go at the middle of the green if it turned over.   I was pleased to see it on the green.   To leave myself that length putt was a tough one, but I kind of knew the read and I hit it good and it was tracking all the way and unfortunately just came up a little bit shy.   But to go out and shoot 5‑under today in those conditions, I'm obviously delighted. 

Q.   You've obviously played well, scored well throughout the whole of the week but chalk and cheese today, isn't it, and your 67 is an outstanding round. 
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, today was tough.   I think it was one of those days where if you had chances to make birdies, you had to take them because they were going to be pretty hard to find.   I got off to a real good start. 
I birdied‑‑ made a nice birdie on the first, good birdie on 2 and holed a real nice putt on 3.   So that kind of got me going. 
Hit a lovely shot into 4 and missed that one and hit a lovely 3‑wood into 5, so that shows how long that was playing.   Didn't manage to hole out but then I birdied 6 and 7, so 5‑under and if that's the tougher of the nine, I'm thinking, well, I can really get it going in the back.   Didn't play quite solid on the back nine.   There was a couple of looser tee shots.   Especially on 14. 
But made a great save there for par, birdied 15, and then the last three holes were just playing brutally tough.   16 was drive and a 4‑iron. 
17 was a really solid 3‑iron and trying to get a 3, and as I say, 18, driver, 3‑wood.   So to shoot 5‑under, I'm very, very happy. 
Then to have a second bite of the cherry, as they say, is always nice.   Unfortunately the wind had dropped a bit, so it wasn't a 3‑wood into the green.   But hit a real good drive.   Had a good number and ripped a 3‑iron in there. 
Shame it didn't roll down a bit further, but luckily playing with Grace in regulation, he was putting one from the top tier.   So I saw his putt there and knew it was going to move left‑to‑right and it just looked like it bobbled a little bit to the right.   I gave it a chance and hats off to Marcel to chip‑in like that.   Can't congratulate him enough.

Q.   A very fitting way to win a prestigious tournament, isn't it. 
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, definitely.   Obviously like I say, today going out, 11‑under, what was I, nine behind?   You never expect to have a chance.   I'm thinking, just go out there and shoot a good score.   If it gets me a Top‑10, that would be great, and obviously to see my name pop up on the leaderboard, it was playing tough and I think I had the best round of the day by quite some margin. 
So I can only walk away from here very delighted and pleased with the way I played.   To have a chance to win was great but this week just unfortunately wasn't my week.   But definitely positive strides and looking forward to Turkey and Dubai.





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT