COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 22, 2014
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about a wonderful finish, because that was pretty spectacular?
ROSS FISHER:   Nice way to finish the day.   Just played solid most of the day.   Hit a couple of loose shots but short game kept me in there a couple of times, holed a couple of good par saves, and Chris just said to me, come on, we've got some chances coming up with the last four holes, 15 playing downwind had a good chance there.   And then 16 hit a good driver through the back of the green, didn't hit a great chip but made a really good putt there and then 17 hit a nice tee shot and rolled that one in. 
18 hit a really good drive and hit a really solid 3‑wood.   I knew it was pretty good.   I was expecting it to be maybe 20 feet past the pin possibly and then sort of kind of got close to the green, looked closer and closer and closer and then got to the front edge and it was like two feet so I'll take those all day long and take 66. 

Q.   Kind of a slow burner? 
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, getting here, 7‑under is leading, scoring is definitely out there.   So I didn't play the par 5s particularly well up until 18.   I parred 1 and 9 and 10 which is a by disappointing.   Knew I was playing well enough and hitting good putts but they weren't going in.   I was playing with Thomas, he was playing solid and making birdies.   That was the first time I had the honor on the last; every time I made a birdie, the other boys did.
It was kind of a slow round that really ignited at the end.   To hang in there and be only 2‑under with a few to play to obviously finish 6‑under, I'm obviously very pleased.

Q.   Is this a continuation of the form from the back end of last year?   I know we didn't see too great effect last week but you finished the year in such style?
ROSS FISHER:   Last week was disappointing.   First tournament for seven weeks there, was obviously a little bit of rust there.   I got over to the States with Denis and did some practice but you never really know how it's going to be.   Abu Dhabi has not really been my best week to be honest.   I think I've only made one cut there in five or six goes but for me I like forward to this week and obviously Dubai, having done very well around Dubai.   But yeah, the form feels just as good, if not, I would say, better than the back end of last year.   So obviously this is a good start.   But you know, I'm not going to get too carried away.   It's only one round down and there's three more to go, and it's put me in a good position and hopefully I can continue to play how I played today. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT