DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 15, 2013
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   With a birdie and an eagle, 64, pretty marvelous. 
ROSS FISHER:   It was nice, actually.   17 was probably about as easy as you're going to get that hole.   I think it was 172, slightly into, but obviously it was baking hot.   Pin was at the front so it was there for the taking. 
And luckily for me, PC birdied 16 so I got to see what he did, and he hit a decent 7.   So I knew for me it was a good 7, because he's probably about half a club longer than me.   Hit a lovely 7‑iron past the pin, and also for me, luckily he was about four foot further away, so I got to see him put first. 
Picked the line and just trusted it and managed to dribble it down there and make two, and then 18, obviously moved the tee forward, which is‑‑ you know, makes it a much better par 5 off the forward tee. 
So the drive is a little tougher, because the water comes in a lot more.   I hit a great drive down there.   Had about 228 to the pin and I was actually between 3 and 4, and as soon as I said that, Chris, my caddie said, where is 4‑iron, mate, because after I hit the shot‑‑ he said, oh, I'm glad you said that because I was actually in between 4 and 5. 
Hit a good 4‑iron.   Knew I had to hit it left because the bank was going to kill it past the pin, dribbled back down to about 12 feet and as you saw, hit a lovely putt that found the bottom of the hole.

Q.   A lovely reward for a good day, but you'd better tell us what made the difference because the first day was nothing like this. 
ROSS FISHER:   No, the first day was pretty bad.   It was funny, I didn't feel like I played that badly.   I just putted poorly.   And even after the round, spoke to Chris and he said, "To be honest with you, Fish, you probably haven't played anywhere near as good as you have the last couple of weeks." 
But today, after yesterday, did a little bit of work on the putting green, switched putters back to my old faithful, if you want to call it that.   But just played a lot better.   I think I only missed one fairway maybe and barely missed any greens, which around this place obviously is going to help you.   And just seemed to get my eye on the greens and could see the lines today. 
Hit the putts probably with a bit more authority, having spoken to Denis yesterday actually, he said, oh, I've got something for you if you want to know, and he picked up on it.   He said it just didn't look like I was fixed in through the stroke on my left wrist.   He said it seemed like the right wrist was taking over a little bit.   I did a bit of work on that yesterday and it felt comfortable.   Got some confidence from that, took it on the course, and 64; so thanks very much, Denis. 

Q.   Clearly we don't know what's going to happen with the leaders but did you tell yourself right at the start that you could still get involved in the tournament?
ROSS FISHER:   Absolutely.   This course is there for the taking but you've got to play very well.   You've got to drive it well.   You've got to hit greens, and they are tricky to read. 
So I knew I needed to, obviously starting the day 3‑over par, knew I needed to go out there and shoot a good score, and it was good playing with Paul because we kind of, you know, kept each other going.   He's obviously struggling a little bit with his wrist. 
But he still played pretty solidly I thought for 68.   Just so happened that I made a few more putts and shot 64.   So to see myself right back in the tournament is what I wanted to do and I'm not going to see a 6 on my alarm call tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT