TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND TOURISM
November 8, 2013
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Back‑to‑back 68s, 8‑under par, talk about your first two rounds here and the nice start you've had?  
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, obviously delighted.   Played some really good golf.   Didn't have too many tricky situations today.   Unfortunately I pulled my drive on 4 into the water.   Fortunately I had a top to put on but didn't have waterproof trousers.   So decided to play; it got covered.   Unfortunately made six, but if I had dropped it, it could have been a six or a seven.   
But no, apart from that, played really solid.   Didn't probably play quite as well as yesterday.   Probably left a couple shots out there.   Hit some good putts.   A few came up just short in the middle which is always in the middle‑‑ any time you leave a putt short, it's always in the middle.   
But obviously to birdie the last again and shoot 68, 8‑under, good position after two days.  
   
 Q.   How did the course change today from yesterday?   Did it dry out a little bit?   
ROSS FISHER:   It was a lot drier, but it was tricky for our first probably 12, 13 holes.   It was quite breezy.   So it was pretty tricky.   You know, especially some of the holes playing downwind, for instance, 17, I hit a lovely 3‑wood there yesterday and it was perfect.   Hit the same 3‑wood today and it went 15 yards further than I thought it was and had to hit 8‑iron from 115 yards below the trees.   
You know, it was tricky out there.   There was some tricky pins.   14 was short‑‑ sorry, 15, I think it is, the short drivable hole, a lot of guys are hitting driver.   I think all three of us laid it back.   There's some tough pins out there but fortunately the wind died down and managed to make a couple of birdies.  
   
 Q.   You've been in good form over the last six events, especially since you've come back over from the States; has there been one key that's had you playing so well?   
ROSS FISHER:   Don't know.   I suppose the states was‑‑ I had been over there before but it was more of a learning curve for me this year, and I had never done it properly.   
Before I had always played the Majors, WGCs here and there, whereas this year, it was proper PGA TOUR card.   I figured I needed to give it a proper go.   I still feel like I'm playing really the same as I was when I was playing over in the States.   Just for some reason, I seem to be getting on better on the greens, seem to be holing a few more putts.   That was really my Achilles over in America that held me from having a couple of good finishes and keeping my card.   
But at the same time, I missed Europe.   I missed the camaraderie and the banter with all the caddies.   It was nice to be back and I obviously left myself a lot of work to do.   Wentworth in May was my first event, so to achieve Race to Dubai starting in May, I'm delighted the way the season's gone.   Obviously this week, big tournament, hopefully Dubai next week and it would be nice to finish off strong.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT