SAUDI INTERNATIONAL POWERED BY SBIA
February 2, 2019
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Satisfied with that round?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I think all in all, pretty pleased.  I mean, obviously lunch won't taste quite as nice walking off 18 with a 3-putt for a par after hitting the green.
Just unfortunately misread the second putt from sort of about four feet.  All in all, I can't be too disappointed.  Played very solid again.  Nice to hole some putts.  I holed some good putts.
Holed a bomb on 9 from probably about 60 feet, I guess, with the pin in.  Probably the first time I've ever done that actually, having the pin in, and then went on a nice little run, 10, 11, 12.  Disappointing to drop one.
But nice to birdie 17, and 18 was a little disappointing, but hey, 5-under in the conditions we had, definitely take it.
Q. Were conditions slightly easier this afternoon than it has been in the previous afternoons?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, definitely not as strong as yesterday.  Obviously we played, I would say at least the front nine, and there wasn't an awful lot of breeze there.  Was a little bit, but nowhere compared to yesterday.  Started to pick up on the back nine so it got a little trickier.
16, again, signature hole and it's just a very, very tough par 3.  It's a beautiful par 3 but you probably want to get up there, hit your shot, try and hit the green and make 3 and move on.
But yeah, the wind was probably about, I'd say, five to seven yards weaker than we had it yesterday afternoon.  So it played slightly easier but if you haven't got control of the golf ball in the crosswinds, you can really struggle around there.
Q. This is a new golf course.  Do you think you have an outside chance tomorrow, depending on conditions?
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, just got to wait and see how the boys finish off today.  The wind's still blowing at the moment.  Whether it will pick up and get stronger for the guys playing the back nine, I guess we'll just have to wait and see.  But I'm pretty comfortable with my position.
Obviously DJ was I think 12-under maybe.  There's a lot of good players up near the top of the leaderboard, so pleased with how I've been playing these three days and you know, one more good day, one more good push tomorrow, and wait and see where that puts me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT