TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND TOURISM
November 7, 2013
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, pleasing.   It's always going to be tough when you get here, prepare, literally had the shoes on walking out of the locker room and heard Miguel say an hour delay.   
So, you know, kind of had to sit down and stay patient, and then within I think 20, 30 minutes, it was two hours, so kind of sitting around thinking, what shall I do, have a bit more food.   So it was difficult.   
But when the gun came to go, we were all ready to go, and yeah, to go out and shoot 4‑under was a decent score.   
   
 Q.   And you actually started your round well and presumably the course eminently playable, despite the amount of water that we had?   
ROSS FISHER:   Definitely.   I said it, I think into the back nine, whereas a cup of the caddies said it after the second or third, I think we could see a 9‑ or 10‑under out there, because the greens are not spinning, they are just pitching and stopping so it's like firing darts in.   
The greens are very good.   You can hole putts and unfortunately between the three of us, we didn't really hole that many putts.   Gave ourselves a lot of looks at birdies, but my longest putt was probably about six, seven feet on the second.   
So played solid tee‑to‑green.   Just hit some good putts.   Just didn't quite drop.   4‑under to play like that, I'm obviously very pleased.  
   
 Q.   Well, you make it sound like it's a modest round, if you think that there can be something that's nine or ten?  
ROSS FISHER:   Well, you look at the scores and you see 5‑under after five holes and then I think someone was 6‑under after eight.   So if you get the putter and the ball rolling, you can definitely make some birdies out there.   I mean, I had a good look on three, and obviously four is a par 5; so I could have easily been 4‑under after four.   
But you know, it was 2‑under, and unfortunately you could only manage four.   But it's still a solid start.   The guys that are out there that are 6‑, 7‑under at the moment, they have still got to sleep on it and come back bright and early tomorrow.   
So it's nice to be finished, get back, have a shower, good food and then come back out and try to go a bit better tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   I take it the game is still in good shape as it has been for so many months now.   
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, it's in really good shape.   I've been toying with putters and I've changed a couple of the grips on my putters just to have a little different feeling, and it was definitely better today.   
Chris, my caddie, said it looked like you were hitting a lot better putts than you were in China.   They looked like they had a chance of going in.   He mentioned something to me, I think it was on Tuesday, he said, it looks like your posture is just a little bit sluggish but slouched over.   
I've worked the last couple of days on trying to stand a little bit taller which is what I generally do on putting, stand a little taller, a little more athletic.   Seemed to pay off today, 4‑under is a good start, and we'll see how the week progresses.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT