ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 20, 2013
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What's the verdict?  
ROSS FISHER:   Obviously would have been lovely to come here and won, but you know, that's golf.   Just unfortunately came up a little bit short, but I can be very pleased the way I played today.   I hung in there really well.   It was always going to be tough.   
There's some good names up there and I knew I needed to just play really well.   I felt like I did that.   I holed a great putt on 11 for a par which kind of kept me going after birdieing 10, and birdied 12 and dropped one on 13, which was disappointing, I kind of thought maybe it's not going to be my day.   But managed to birdie 15 and hit a great shot into 17 and made birdie there.  
Obviously on the last, I knew it was quick but I just couldn't trust it and raced it past.   Thought I showed a lot of bottle and courage to hole it, and to be in a playoff was great.   We both hit lovely tee shots down there.   Jin hit a great second in.   I had a decent number, and just unfortunately got a bit of a jumper.   
You know, thought I played a decent enough chip.   Just trying to pitch into the fringe and let it release out.   Finchie had a putt before in regulation from a similar sort of angle and didn't look like it would break that much, so I played it pretty straight and unfortunately slipped by.   Hats off to Jin for winning his first professional tournament.   
   
 Q.   He held his nerve I guess, and so did you, but he got the breaks.   
ROSS FISHER:   Well, I mean, I don't know.   I don't know how his 18 holes went.   Got off to a good start birdieing 1 and 3 and had some chances.   Didn't hole everything but then holed some really good putts when I needed to.   
Like I said, the putt on 11 was huge and to birdie 12 and bogey 13, miss one on 14, I thought come on, just hang in there, there's a par 5 and the stretch was playing downwind so I knew I had a chance, birdied 15.   Had a good look on 16 and 17 hit a great shot to two feet.   
But like I say, if I had missed that putt on the last, I would have been cheesed off, frustrated 3‑putting the last.   But I got myself into a playoff, I had a chance and unfortunately Jin was just slightly better than me.  
   
 Q.   You sound upbeat which is good and the upshot is a nice advance in The Race to Dubai.   
ROSS FISHER:   It's always nice, isn't it.   I wasn't 100 per cent on coming here during Portugal, but results there meant that I kind of had to come, which was nice, because I had not been here since 2008 when it was at the Vines.   
So it was a long way to come, but I'm certainly grateful and thankful to my wife, Jo and Conor and the boys at Horizon for talking me into coming.   Managed to sleep pretty well on the plane and haven't felt that jet‑lagged at all this week.   The golf's been very, very good.   I'm just pleased I'm knocking on the door and I know one of these days, it will come.   
Like you say, Race to Dubai, I've moved up.   I should hope that's got me into next week in China.   Good World Ranking points, so hopefully that might put me back in the Top‑100, so it's definitely a step in the right direction.   I can't be too disappointed with finishing second.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT