ISPS HANDA PERTH INTERNATIONAL
October 18, 2013
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Start with the wake‑up call again?   
ROSS FISHER:   Whatever you guys want me to talk about.   
   
 Q.   He was disturbed by his 4.35 alarm this morning.   
ROSS FISHER:   We get late tee off times and early tee off times and obviously 6.20 was first off and I fortunately managed to have a little bit of a lie in, I was out at 6.40.   Yeah, you never want to see your alarm with a four in front of it.   Five is early enough but 4.35 was a little bit early.   But you get what you're given, and we're used to it by now, having early starts.   
So, I was prepared for it.   Didn't probably get the best night's sleep I've ever had, but it didn't seem to show out there today with 67.  
   
 Q.   The positives about getting out early, conditions pretty nice?   
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, definitely.   It was tricky because it was‑‑ I mean, it wasn't cold but it wasn't warm, so it was difficult to adjust how far the ball was going.   And you think early out, the greens are going to be, if anything, a bit softer, but in hindsight, it was‑‑ they were actually‑‑ seemed firmer than yesterday, which was crazy.   
So it was difficult to adjust how far the ball was flying, but managed to dial that in pretty quickly and made some early birdies on the back nine, my front nine.   You know, unfortunately 3‑putted 18 which was disappointing to drop a shot there, but bounced back nicely with a few birdies on the front.   Obviously to hole the bunker shot on the 8th was a bonus, so to get around shooting 67, very pleased.  
   
 Q.   Talk us through the shot.   
ROSS FISHER:   Short‑sided myself on left there and didn't really have much green to work with.   It was a decent lie but it was coming down the green and downhill, so I knew it was going to be pretty quick.   
But it was one of those ones where as soon as I struck it, I knew it was pretty decent.   Had a really good line on it, and it went in.   It probably would have gone maybe four foot, six‑foot past.   But you know, happy it managed to go in.  
   
 Q.   How would you rate your round yesterday?  
ROSS FISHER:   I thought I played really nicely.   Just couldn't buy a putt.   Just still getting used to the greens.   Obviously they are a lot quicker than what myself and all the Europeans are used to for sure, very undulating, very slopey, and very, very quick.   
So it still takes a bit of time to get used to.   I am still going to hit putts that are probably going to come up maybe four, five, six‑foot short, because you're a little bit worried.   And on the other hand, you are going to hit putts probably five, six‑foot past.   
But so far, I've managed to limit the 3‑putts to‑‑ I think I 3‑putted 18 and that was my only 3‑putt in two rounds.   So I've holed out pretty nicely and like I say, I feel like I'm getting more confident and comfortable on the golf course and just looking forward to the next two days.  
   
 Q.   Is The Race to Dubai at forefront of your thinking?   
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, definitely.   I want to try and get in the Top 60.   It would be for me a great achievement having played the first half of the year in the States.   My first tournament in Europe counting‑wise wasn't till May.   
So I've always been playing catch‑up, but I can be really proud of how I've played the second half of the year.   I'm 65th position at the moment.   A good week here, hopefully that gets me into next week in China.   Not out of the question if I won this week, you know, hopefully that would put me into the HSBC.   That would be huge.   There's some big tournaments left.   Obviously this week first and hopefully I can do enough here to get myself into next week, possibility of HSBC, Turkey and Dubai.   
The ultimate goal would be to get myself into Dubai, but I need to play very well this week to allow myself to try and get into next week.  
   
 Q.   What do you reckon would be a minimum here to get into next week?  
ROSS FISHER:   Not sure.   You'd probably have to ask the man to your right there.   But I think I'm 65th at the moment.   I think I'm first reserve for next week.   Obviously that's bearing in mind everyone plays that's down, so you may get some guys that drop out so I may get in, but I didn't really feel it was a risk worth taking to not come this week.   
I planned on coming and if I would have finished a little bit better last week in Portugal, then I might not have come.   But I haven't been to Perth since the Johnnie Walker at the Vines, so it's nice to come back, even if it is a long way to come.   But I'm happy that I'm here now and playing some good golf.  
   
 Q.   I suppose the downside about Australia is the flights.   
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, it's a long trip, but us golfers get used to long flights.   That's part and parcel of our job.   You've got to get used to it, and yeah, this is a long way to come, but at the end of it, there's a tournament to be won.   Someone's got to win it, so you know, why can't it be me.   
   
 Q.   And in terms of next year, you've obviously had a bit of a go at the US PGA Tour this year, is it more going to be on The European Tour?  
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, next will be more of the first few years of myself on the Tour, trying to get myself back into the Top‑100, Top‑50 and play my way into playing over in the States, that's for sure.   
But yeah it was a good experience in America, but I did miss Europe and I'm glad to be back playing in Europe.  
   
 Q.   Some of the betting agencies had you as third favourite here this week.   Were you pretty confident coming in?  
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, I was confident.   I've been playing nice golf.   Coming off the back of a good week last week in Portugal, so it's nice to be thought of in that way being one of the favorites.   Hopefully I can prove those guys right and have a good weekend.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT