PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 11, 2013
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Second last year, right up there this year at 9‑under, what is it about this place?  
ROSS FISHER:   Don't know.   Must be something in the air.   No, I just really like coming back here.   Used to come here on holidays as a kid with the family, and just love the Algarve; Quinta do Lago, all these sorts of courses, I just grew up playing on holiday.   
To have come close here on a couple of occasions, finishing third to Alvaro, and obviously second last year, I feel like the course suits me.   I feel very comfortable here.   Got beautiful weather.   Everything is on site for us and it's just a really, really good week and I thoroughly enjoy it.  
   
 Q.   When you when are a kid coming here, did you think you would be playing on The European Tour on the big stage of world golf?   
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, it's what I've always wanted to do, ever since I started when I was three, coming here on family holidays, obviously I didn't‑‑ it didn't go through my mind.   But as I got better and better, you know, I've kind of sacked off all the other sports and tried to focus on golf because I knew I had a talent for it and I wanted to pursue that and golf is something I've always wanted to do since I was very little.   To be out here now and playing, like you say, with the big boys is a dream come true for sure.   
   
 Q.   These greens have threatened this week be to lightning, haven't they but they haven't quite got there yet.   Would you like to see them stop watering them?   
ROSS FISHER:   It's tricky, the guy that brought us from the airport on Tuesday said they had a lot of rain last week, so getting out Tuesday and Wednesday, and even the last two days, they are definitely slower than I remember them.   I remember them being really good last year and probably a little bit quicker.   
So it's hard to adjust because you look at them this morning, we have perfect greens, and they look a lot quicker than they actually put.   So it's very, very difficult and it plays tricks on yourself.   You know, they are not quite as quick and you just can't bring yourself to hit them as hard as you need to.   But you know, I think last year, it played quite firm and quite fiery, so, you know, I think for me obviously being a long hitter, I'd probably prefer it if the greens were hard, because to play well out here, you need to play short clubs, which obviously plays to my advantage.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT