JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 24, 2013
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell us about that finish, because that's quite spectacular. 
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, it was pretty special.   Played really good today.   Started birdie, eagle.   I thought, you know, could be a low one out there today.   And then played really good, holed a nice little 8‑footer on 4 to keep the round going for par. 
And then unfortunately just couldn't‑‑ I had a real good chance on 7 from about six, eight feet and missed that and unfortunately just misjudged my second on 8 and led to a bogey, poor tee shot on 9 led to another one.   So you kind of think all the hard work at the start kind of disappeared.
I knew I was playing good, and I knew I could score on the back nine, because it's scorable out there.   Conditions were ideal for golf really. 
So yeah, so get a couple of birdies, some nice shots, was more‑‑ from 14, hit driver for the first time this week and paid off with a three. 
And like you said, to finish birdie, birdie, and especially after hitting such a poor drive in the trees and to see it drop, 66, very pleased.

Q.   It begs the question:   Do you have a nice chance? 
ROSS FISHER:   Well, I'm 12, lead is 16, is it, at the moment, so, I mean, what, they have just made the turn, so I would be surprised if the lead is not at least 18, maybe 19. 
So, you know, if it stays 16, you know, I looked at the scores yesterday and I saw Paul Waring shot 63, which is a fantastic score, so it's obviously out there.   But you've got to play really, really well, play 18 good holes and give yourself chances, and if you get the ball rolling and you drop a couple of putts, gives you confident to carry on the round. 
So there's a 63 out there, obviously it's been done, so I'm not out of it for sure.

Q.   If you start the way you did today and get rid of the blemishes you're right in there?
ROSS FISHER:   Absolutely.   Like I say, there's some quality players up at the top:   Bernd is playing very, very well, played with him before, he's a great young talent.   Gonzalo hits the ball miles, obviously playing very well.   Good to see Tommy up there again, another young prospect.
But there's a lot of good golfers out there.   So I'm just pleased to be sort of there or thereabouts with 18 holes to go and like I say, if I can get off to a hot start like I did today, keep the blemishes off the card, make some more putts, you never know.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT