JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 22, 2013
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thoughts on the day?
ROSS FISHER:   Not too bad.   Worked out all right today, 66.   First couple of days was pretty tough but managed to get a couple of decent night's kip and obviously last night, paid off, good sleep, and 66, very pleased.

Q.   A really good score today but sum up the year so far?
ROSS FISHER:   Disappointing, I would say.   Felt like I've played some really good golf and just haven't capitalised.   Putter has let me down on a number of occasions when I could have had really strong finishes.   Kind of just faded away last day or even the back nine a couple of times in America, could have been really strong, and at least three or four occasions over here in Europe. 
Still doing the right things, working hard and nice to see myself shoot, what, seven birdies out there today.

Q.   So what is the story with the American adventure? 
ROSS FISHER:   Kind of finished.   I played 15 events.   Didn't make enough, so now my focus is primarily and solely playing in Europe now, so I'm going to be playing these four weeks in a row.   Probably Dunhill, and then hopefully get into the Seve Trophy, which would be great. 
But yeah, trying to finish the year here strong and obviously Ryder Cup points start next week.   So that's definitely very, very high on my agenda for next season.

Q.   In some way does that clear your mind then because you've only got one thing to concentrate on? 
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, a little bit.   It's been difficult.   It's been tough.   It's a great adventure.   It was good fun.   I thought, it was the last year of Q‑School, so might as well give it a go.   Didn't expect anything from it, and to finish second and play the first half of the year over there, it was exciting.   It was a new experience for myself. 
Didn't go to plan but I have missed playing in Europe.   This is my home place to play golf is in Europe so I'm glad to be back and obviously it showed out there today.

Q.   So 'Ross' is back?
ROSS FISHER:   I hope so. 

Q.   So tell us how pleasing a round of 66 is around here to start?
ROSS FISHER:   Extremely.   You know, it was difficult conditions today.   Wasn't the warmest, so the ball doesn't fly very far, so getting the right distances on your approaches to the green was tricky.   A lot of shots to the pin and pin‑high.   Played aggressive golf when I was allowed to, and then a couple of holes, just played strategic golf. 
To come out and shoot 6‑under, I'm delighted with that.

Q.   We've said this a few times across recent months, the form is pretty much there but just a matter of keeping it going across the week?
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, the form has been there most of the season but just unfortunately haven't put the form into good results.   For some reason, I just can't fight finish the job off.   Sweden was a decent week, solid week; and Castle Stuart I was right up there the first two days, but unfortunately fell away Saturday, Sunday.   I want to try to put that right and get four solid rounds in.
To come here to a place that I feel comfortable, it's going to be the venue for The Ryder Cup next year so obviously thoughts on trying to make Paul's team next year, I feel like I need to play some good golf to get on that team because there's a lot of good players.   Shooting 66 the first day puts me in a good spot. 

Q.   Points haven't started yet but it's clearly on your mind at a venue like this that will stage the event itself. 
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, and that's why I'm going to concentrate firmly on Europe for the rest of this year.   Like you say, the points start, I believe, next week in Wales, and that's a course I'm obviously very familiar with, The Ryder Cup in 2010 and I've had some good performances there. 
Kind of let it slip a little bit last year there, but looking forward to playing obviously this week in Scotland and next week in Wales.   Like I say, just try to play how I have the whole year, but just try and get the putter warmer. 
I think once it does, and like it showed today, seven birdies, it's pretty decent golf out there today, so if I can keep that going, hopefully give myself a chance on Sunday. 

Q.   Not the pond‑hopping anymore, so we can see you in Europe more?
ROSS FISHER:   There's no more pond‑hopping, so I'm pleased about that.   There's not going to be anymore jet‑lag, and I can concentrate on Europe and hopefully get home on a Sunday if I've played well and see Jo and the kids; Sunday, Monday, and leave on Tuesday, which is great, because obviously being in America, you don't get that luxury of getting back to see your wife and children. 
So it's been tough this year, but now like I say, I can firmly concentrate on Europe and put in a nice good finish to the rest of the year.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT