WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2013
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Generally as a rule the lower scores come in the morning than Ross Fisher posted a beautiful 64 this afternoon.   What was working with so well in your bag today?  
ROSS FISHER:   I would have to say the putter.   Kind of let me down pretty much most of this year.   I've played some really good golf over here but haven't capitalized.   I think my best finish is like 10th at Quail so nice to get out there and play some solid golf and to see myself holing some putts was really, really pleasing.  
   
 Q.   In your words, you may not have played maybe as you have wanted to this year, what does a round like this do for your confidence?  
ROSS FISHER:   It's huge.   You know, I know I'm not playing well.   I went back to Europe and was playing nicely.   You know, I know it's in there, just getting all parts of the game firing.   I played Tuesday and drove the ball nicely.   Hit my lines good.   Struggled a bit on the greens with the speed.   Obviously, for me, I'm not used to as quick as this so, you know, it's very much the second shot golf course.   
You got to put it in the right spot.   I seemed to do that quite well today and I made a lot of really good putts.   So, to shoot 64 last off you could say I'm quite pleased.  
   
 Q.   Being around you, getting to know you, you're a relaxed individual generally.   You got a lot of work to do if you want to keep your season and year going because you're outside the 125 numbers.   
That being said, with this number, gives you opportunity to creep back in.   Does anything change for you mentally moving forward in this tournament?  
ROSS FISHER:   Not really.   I mean my manager, "Hank Conner" just said you have nothing to lose but you go out there all guns blazing and see what happens.   
That's the attitude I'm taking with me.   I've got to go out and kind of almost win or finish very high up.   I know what to do and just got to go out and enjoy it and if it's meant to be, it will happen.   If it's not, then, you know, I've had a fun experience, played 15 events and it's been good fun.   I don't want it to end here.   I want to it keep going and try to get in the FedExCup Playoffs.  
   
 Q.   You're off to a good start.  
ROSS FISHER:   Thank you.  
   
 Q.   You kind of just leap up and grab the lead.  
ROSS FISHER: Under the radar.  
   
 Q.   No galleries but still the lead going into tomorrow.   Just talk on the surprise that you had.  
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah.   I mean like I said just there, I know it's been coming.   Hasn't happened over here yet.   You know, good form.   Europe has gone reasonably okay for the amount of events I've played so I didn't have a great week in Reno, obviously an event where you need to make a ton of birdies.   I made two.   
I felt like I took in some positives from that week.   Played really good.   Couldn't buy a putt.   I knew this week coming in I just had to keep playing how I've been playing and hopefully the putts will drop and fortunately I seem to get the speed of the greens really well today and holed some really nice putts.   64 is a great way to start.  
   
 Q.   Have you ever played a Donald Ross course before with the "trickiness" and everything like that?  
ROSS FISHER:   I probably have.   I'm not familiar with all the course design but like I said before, I think this is a really good golf course.   I think it's different from the majority of the courses I've played so far this year.   
It's not one of those bomber's paradise golf courses.   You can hit your driver quite a bit but you need to position it off the tee.   It's very much a second shot golf course.   You need to know where the pins are, where to miss it, where not to miss it.   It's only the second time I've played here.   To shoot 64 obviously very, very pleased.  
   
 Q.   Slight advantage going into tomorrow, you get to go out early.  
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, you could say that.   Last off 2:00, still shot 64.   I don't know if there's an advantage early or late.   The greens are better than what they were this afternoon but having said that the greens were perfect this afternoon.   They were still very, very quick, firming up a little bit so I'm not sure what the forecast is but I'm kind of hoping maybe a little bit of rain so they don't get too quick or too firm otherwise it could be very tricky come the weekend.   
It's a good, positive stop.   Get back, have some beer, good rest and try to shoot a good one tomorrow and see where that puts me going into the weekend.  
   
 Q.   You're in the last group.   Coming down that back-9 what's going through your mind knowing that you have a chance, you see where the leaderboard is going to be.  
What's going through your mind on the back-9 as far as motivation to make sure you get the top spot?  
ROSS FISHER:   I was 3-under and then hit a couple of really nice shots into the par 5 and made a good eagle there so obviously 5-under.   I knew 6 was leading.   
There's some good chances out there.   I made a great birdie on the par 3 and then unfortunately missed the short one on 8 and then hit a great one on 9.   
Really, just the mentality was keep going, you know.   I knew I was playing well.   I had the speed of the greens.   Commit to your lines, trying to hit your putts.  
If they went in, great.   If they didn't as long as you hit a good putt that's all you can do.   So shoot 6-under, obviously delighted.  
   
 Q.   Ross, you finished within inches of finishing off your round in spectacular fashion.   What did you see on that 40-foot putt and were you surprised that it was as close as it was?  
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah.   I knew the line.   It was just basically into the grain, uphill, little bit left to right.   I knew it was a slow putt.   
Actually hit it, I thought I might have hit it a bit too hard but seemed to be tracking really, really nicely.   Unfortunately just shaved on the right edge.   Maybe lacked a little bit of pace.   I'm not going to complain two-putting from 40 feet, shooting 64.   Run and get some dinner.  
   
 Q.   Should the crowds stick around tomorrow to watch Ross Fisher?  
ROSS FISHER:   If they want to, great.   If they don't, doesn't matter.   Hopefully they'll see me on Saturday and Sunday.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT