ABERDEEN ASSET MANAGEMENT SCOTTISH OPEN
July 12, 2013
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   How do you reflect on two days so far?   
ROSS FISHER:   Very well.   First day, 68 after losing a ball on 12, my third hole, I'm taking six, making four as my second ball, to shoot 68 was very pleasing.   Played pretty solid yesterday.   
Played really, really good today.   Holed some decent putts.   Just gave myself a lot of chances.   Didn't miss too many greens.   Maybe a couple out there.   Didn't play the par 5s particularly well.   Not birdieing 6 obviously was disappointing, but to birdie 8 and 9, out in four, I knew I had to shoot a couple under on the back to try to get my name on that board.   
So 11‑under, one behind, I'm in a good spot.  
   
 Q.   And presumably very positive, because there have been more than enough signs in recent weeks.   
ROSS FISHER:   There's been a few.   I played good in Sweden, obviously talked to you there.   Enjoyed my first half of the year in America.     Felt like the results didn't really reflect how I played.   I felt like I played a lot better than my results showed.   It was a case of one thing and it was a case of holing putts, which I didn't do for the first four months of the year.   That's how you win tournaments.   
So I've worked hard on that, and you know, seems to be paying off.   Generally I played solid.   It was nice to go back to Paris, I had not been there for at least two or three years, and finally cracked that course because I haven't done so well around there.   
Obviously coming back to play Castle Stuart, Scottish Open in the U.K. is very special.   We don't have many tournaments in the U.K. anymore, so when we do, you know, home crowd, it's great that they get behind the home players.   
So not like I'm saying I'm a home player, but you can feel a lot of support out there for us, so it's nice to be back and obviously for me, it's an extra special week because I need to try and do as well as I can do give myself a chance to get in   The Open Championship next week.   
   
 Q.   And in itself, special to play on links again after a bit of a break?  
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, definitely.   Last week wasn't really linksy, but it played very much like a links.   It was a great test of golf.   
You know, this week, it's very generous off the tee, which, you know, some guys don't like; other guys obviously love, because you can get the driver out quite a lot around here, which I do, too.   And you know, you do have to play some sort of linksy‑type shots if the breeze picks up.   
The first two days, we haven't had much breeze so it's played pretty fair and pretty easy for the guys out there.   Fingers crossed we will get another day tomorrow of bright sunshine, maybe a little bit of breeze and go out and give it a rip and see where we are.   
Any time you can go around a course without dropping a shot, you're always very, very pleased.   Came close at 17 but holed a good putt there for par and nice to birdie the last and 65 I'm delighted with.  
   
 Q.   You started your year playing over in the United States, didn't have a great start to the reason; the recent results suggest the confidence is coming, is that the case?  
ROSS FISHER:   It's been there all year to be honest.   There was really only a couple of tournaments where I didn't play particularly well.   But I played, like you say, in the States for the first part of the year.   
Felt like I played really good but just didn't hole any putts.   It was a good experience for me, came to Europe and I've played solid golf.   I don't think I've missed a cut.   It was nice to actually have a decent performance in Paris after having not been there for three years, but yeah, I played good in Sweden, good in Ireland, decent last week and I'm playing well so far this week.   
So you know, 11‑under for two days, I'm very pleased with.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT