PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 14, 2012
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ROSS FISHER:   Obviously gutted, disappointed the way it finished but you win some, you lose some.   If someone would have said as I walked off the first tee on Friday that I was going to have a put to get in a playoff on Sunday I would have bitten their hand off, because after I did it, I really didn't think I was going to make it. 
So, you know, I can't thank Jesper and the physios enough for what they have done to my foot and managed to get me around.   Progressively got better each day.   You know, it was a tough day today again.   Myself and Bernd were really firing to go out.   Started to get it going on the back nine, and then, yeah, gave myself a couple of chances and holed a couple of really good putts.   Then you know, had a good drive off 15, had a good chance of up‑and‑down there, just missed the putt there. 
16, just a little bit unlucky with where the ball finished, right up against a cut of rough and 17 couldn't go for the green, which probably wasn't a bad thing.   You know, left myself a great number and hit it until it was all over the pin, and to see it spin back that much, I was a bit disappointed.   Hit a great putt.   Didn't go in and then hit a lovely tee shot and was just right in between 4‑ and 5‑iron.   I was like, well, 5‑iron is the club that's going to win me the tournament probably. 

Q.   There's a lot of deliberation, wasn't as though you had the two clubs?
ROSS FISHER:   You know, I forget, I think it was like 170, cover 192 pin or something.   We had been playing a good 20 yards of wind and I was thinking in between 4 and 5, and 4 felt too much so tried to drill a 5‑iron, hit what I thought was a good shot and unfortunately the wind just died and again, if the ball was on the green it was probably a slightly easier putt. 
But having it up against the collar of rough made it that little bit harder.   Hit a decent first putt.   It's one you want to leave below the hole.   Unfortunately I left it below the hole and to the right.   So was hoping to get a read off of Bernd's, but unfortunately he raced it by and second putt didn't move, which I got a good look at.   I've had that putt before and I know it breaks right‑to‑left and thought right, come on, just start it on the right.   Hit a good putt.   Hit a lovely putt, caught the edge and unfortunately lipped‑out.   Came up one shy.

Q.   I hate to over‑dramatize‑‑ two putts on the 18th in consecutive days that have just caught the lip and stayed out?
ROSS FISHER:   Saturday's gone.   It's in the past now.   That was until the present and I was in the moment.   I hit a good putt and unfortunately it didn't go in.   So you win some and you lose some.   Unfortunately I've lost this one but I can take a lot from this week. 
Just happy and relieved that the physios managed to get me out there and play golf, because it wasn't looking good after I walked off the tee on Friday.   So I'm very relieved.   And to finish second with the foot the way it's been, I can't be too disappointed. 

Q.   And you know Shane and he's obviously contended superbly on this final day. 
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, I played with Shane Sunday of Dunhill and he played great.   He probably should have shot better than he did.   He's a good guy.   He's from the same management stable as me, Horizon Sports Management, so congratulations to him.   I don't know what he ended up, 66 out there today was a great score.   Would have been nice to have knocked it in and have a little fun up 18 just the two of us, but wasn't meant to be for me this week.   Hats off to Shane. 

Q.   And plenty for you till the end of the year?
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, busy stretch.   I don't know where this will put me World Ranking‑wise, but week off and then playing in China, not in HSBC obviously, would have been nice to win this week to get me in that.   So not in HSBC at the moment, so going to China for a week and then at the moment back home for a week and then going to the States and then preparing for second stage of Q‑School. 
So you know, it's the last year they are doing it and so I figured why not give it a crack.   If it means me missing a few European Tour events, but it's a little bit disappointing, would have liked to have played Hong Kong and Race to Dubai, but second stage, I want to give it my best shot so it gives me the opportunity to play, fingers crossed, in Europe and some events in America because of my World Ranking.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT