PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 11, 2012
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ROSS FISHER:   Very enjoyable.   Any time you can go around and shoot a good score, it's obviously pleasing.   Had a good week with Thomas and Freddie and we're all playing pretty steady.   I supposed I played the best out of the three, but nice to see the other boys making birdies and kind of kicking each other onto make more. 
It was tough getting up at 6.00 with an 8.00 tee off time but we had the best of the greens, second group out on the back nine, so didn't really take too much advantage of that.   But then I did on the front nine.   Like I say, it's been coming for a while and it's nice to see the hard work paying off.

Q.   And the red figures coming against your name in nice little purple patches if you like, because there are three pretty much in four holes, another sequence where they dropped all together. 
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, there was a few, especially the front nine, I hit a couple of good shots into the first, and you know, especially not birdieing 17, being just short in two, was disappointing, because I would have liked to have bounced back after bogey on 16. 
You can't make them all but like I saw, the first was good to kick start, and hit two good shots into the second.   Holed a really nice downhill kind of 15‑, 18‑foot putt there.   Then I had a perfect number into 3 and stiffed it with a 6‑iron.
All of a sudden, you go from a couple under to three in a row there with a par 5 to come, so you're thinking, want to try and press on from there, and you know, had to work hard on 7 for par, and also on 9. 
But to get through that tricky stage, like I said before, 6, 7, 8 and 9 were not playing that easy.   The wind really picked up, and 6 was a very firm green.   So to be able to stop the ball on the green, you have to come in with a lot of loft, which obviously for me helps.
Yeah, I think the afternoon boys, if it gets any stronger, especially 7‑‑ that's a tough hole with no wind but with wind, you have to be committed to your line off the tee otherwise you're going to be in the water.   To come out of it unscathed with 6‑under, I'm very pleased.

Q.   And makes it all the more important to get a start like this and essentially you've played pretty well, pretty consistently across the whole of the season, some lovely results but probably haven't given yourself the greatest of chances right from the off. 
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, potentially, I suppose if I was really on my game around kind of, what was it, Ireland and Wales, Germany, I suppose, those sort of tournaments, especially Wales, that was a really good chance really to win.   Unfortunately had the slight mishap with my toe in the room and that didn't help matters for the weekend but I've been giving myself a chance. 
Was unfortunate to get the slow play penalty, but then I bounced right back with that and finished second in Sweden.   If I had put more pressure on Westy on the front, things might have turned out different, but when he needed to make the putts at the right time, he did.   And to finish second on my own after dropping quite a few shots, finishing strong like that, can't be too disappointed.
Like you say, it's been a tough season.   First year with Nike, so I feel like I'm there with the equipment and the ball, we had a couple of tweaks throughout the year, but the middle of the year to get back into the majors like The Open was great.   There's been some good results but it would be nice to get that W by my name.

Q.   Having played it two years ago, you missed The Ryder Cup, and presumably you were watching it this time and more determined to go back for the next one?
ROSS FISHER:   Absolutely, yeah.   Watched a fair bit of it.   So you know, I think‑‑ I forget where I was that week.   I think I might have been coming back from holiday or not, but yeah, definitely was tuning in watching and cheering on the boys.   I actually felt more nervous sitting on the sofa than I did at Celtic Manor, it was kind of weird. 
But yeah, if that doesn't inspire me and all of these other guys to get in The Ryder Cup, then shouldn't be playing the game of golf.   I mean, that was just awesome.   I've experienced it in Wales and it's something that I think‑‑ Rory said it once, you've played in one, you never want to miss another one. 
So, yeah, that did spur me on to get out and work hard.   I think 17th in the world was my best, I'm not there now but I'm working hard and I'm improving, so one step at a time and we'll be back hopefully soon enough. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT