DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
December 8, 2011
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Assessment.   Good?   Solid?  
ROSS FISHER:   Yeah, both.   I felt like I played really nicely actually.   Drove the ball really good.   Gave myself a lot of good looks at birdies early on, and unfortunately couldn't make anything.   
So, you know, just tried to stay patient and birdied 9, which kind of got me going.   Had a good look at 10, missed that.   Birdied 11.   And then made a couple of really good saves actually.   I 2‑putted 12 from No Man's Land and got up‑and‑down from left of 13.   So that kind of kept the round together.   And then hit two lovely shots into the par 5 and had a really good look at 3 there and made 4.   
Then all of a sudden, middle of the fairway, 120 in and hit a lovely wedge and I just said at the top of the flight, go in, and thought it was good, and Adam goes, "I think it's gone in, mate."       Pitched a foot short and went in.   Obviously a few people watching there by the green‑side, and I was like, is he joking or what.   And all of a sudden a few of the guys started walking up to the green.   It was a bit bizarre.   
Disappointing to 3‑putt 17 and then I hit a really good drive on 18, wanted to go for it, but it was too far.   Thought I had holed it but 4‑under is a good start.  
   
 Q.   Not many people will be getting up on two in 18.   
ROSS FISHER:   I doubt it.   We had 280 front, 310 pin, so that was just out of my reach.   
   
 Q.   Your kind of golf course, though, isn't it?  
ROSS FISHER:   I like it.   Last year I shot 64, which I believe still ties the course record, on the second round.   I think even more so this year, I think it suits me even more.   The fairways are up a little bit longer.   
So that means around the greens, if you do miss a green, chipping is a lot easier than the last two years.   The grass has been a lot shorter and I think because they have overseeded it, it's quite green.   And it's playing quite long.   So obviously that plays into my hands, and you know, I think Luke alluded to that, obviously playing with Rory; there's a few par 5s that he can't get up on whereas Rory can.   
But it depends heavily on the wind conditions.   I mean, the second we couldn't get there‑‑ because obviously we were early in the morning, but the later starters will because it's obviously a bit warmer and the wind might change.   But hopefully the guys will set 18 up so that everyone can have a crack at it and move the tee forward.   
The course is in great shape and obviously as you can see, good scores; Paul shot 7‑under.   So it's definitely there for the taking.   But there were some tricky pins out there.   There was definitely some Sunday pins, not Thursday pins.   
   
 Q.   Next few days, same as would do you very well?   
ROSS FISHER:   Absolutely.   I've obviously been a bit disappointed with the season so far.   I've won the last four years, so I'm going to be trying to keep that going.   I never want to play a season without winning.   So this is my Last Chance Saloon, as it goes, but obviously there's a lot of guys vying for winning this tournament.   Obviously Rory and Luke and a few of the other guys.   
It's the strongest field of the year.   So if I want to win, I'm going to have to play another three solid rounds like I did today and hopefully make a few more birdies and just give myself a chance on Sunday afternoon.   
   
 Q.   How drastic a change to the year would it be if you won?   
ROSS FISHER:   It would go from being a disappointing year to a nice end to the season and it will set me up for The Desert Swing.   
I started last week in Hong Kong thinking I've got five really big weeks ahead of me because I want to get into that Top‑50 and plan my schedule out after Dubai next year, because at the moment, I can't, because I'm in the World Golf Championship events at Doral or the Match Play.   Didn't go so well last week, so this week, there's no cut, so I'm in on the weekend; that helps.   
But yeah, this is the start of four big weeks for me, so I'm looking forward to finishing this year off strong, hopefully go out with a bang this week, and then have a good winter break and then come out firing in Abu Dhabi, Qatar and Dubai.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT