PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 13, 2011
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It was almost pretty good.   
 ROSS FISHER: It was almost pretty good. I felt like I played really good out there today. Been struggling most of the year with the driver and putting, as well. So actually sorted the driving out a couple of weeks ago, and have been driving it real good, drove it real good last week.   
 So I was really looking forward to this week because it's a course I've done well around before and feel like it fits my eye and drove it really good. Hit some lovely iron shots. And finally started to hole some putts which was nice.   
 You know, it was a little disappointing. I felt like I probably left a couple out there. Dropping one on 7 was disappointing and would have been nice to birdie 9, the same as Thomas, but 6-under is a good start.  
  
  Q. Seemed like a nice little tussle with him out there, as well.   
 ROSS FISHER: It was. It was. He played very solid. Thomas is a gritty competitor. We had fun. Always a pleasure to play with players of the calibre of Thomas, and especially Dys, probably the quickest player on Tour, have to keep up with him and got to make sure you keep him on, because he does play very quick. He struggled a little bit today. But myself and Thomas excelled and we both played pretty flawless golf.   
 Like I say I was just disappointed to drop one shot out there. Would have been nice to have had a bogey-free round. But you know, I'll still take 6-under.  
  
  Q. And to elaborate on what you've touched on already, there have been signs of recovery?  
 ROSS FISHER: It's been coming all year to be honest. Game has been really good most of the year. Just the flat stick has been really letting me down. Dunhill, I probably averaged 33 putts, 34 putts, which is just not good enough. Took four putters with me last week at Madrid, felt like I was putting better.   
  
  Q. Did you use every single one of them?  
 ROSS FISHER: I used to. I used one for three days and was not playing fantastic. I actually holed more chips than I holed putts to be fair, so it was getting desperate.   
 So I had four putters with me this week and fortunately the putter I picked up at the PGA, I gave back, because I wanted it in a different colour, it was actually here on the truck. I picked that one up and hit a few putts with it, felt nice, took it in the Pro-Am, putted nicely and thought, stick with it. Seven birdies, pretty good start.  
  
  Q. Colour matters?  
 ROSS FISHER: Not always.   
  
  Q. Go on, what colour is it?   
 ROSS FISHER: It's black. It's pretty similar to what I normally use, maybe a slightly different shade.   
 Yeah, I had a black putter when I won Holland, which I brought that one out and the two putters that I normally use are out with me, and yeah, I didn't expect to pick that one up. It was on the truck and I took it, thought it looked quite nice and thought, well, can't harm me to give it a go. Gave it a go on the greens and thought, this feels really nice. Give it a go. 6-under, good choice.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT