NEDBANK GOLF CHALLENGE PRESENTED BY GARY PLAYER
November 11, 2018
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Final round 70.  Give us your thoughts?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, obviously very, very pleased.   
Started off the week, was really looking forward to the week.  Always love coming here and then for a while there in the second round, things were going fantastic.  To finish the way I did, it was a bitter pill to swallow.   
You know, sat down, had a good chat with Lee, my psychologist, and my caddie, and had a good little pep talk and said, you can look at it and cry about it and let it affect you, or you take the positives from the first 14 holes you played.   
That's what I tried to do and came out and played really solid yesterday.  Probably didn't play quite as well today.  Still felt like I played well.  Just unfortunately couldn't get as many putts to drop.   
But I mean, you know, hats off to Lee.  What a round of golf that was.  It wasn't easy.  The wind was the same as every other day.  It was all over the place.  There wasn't much of it, but one minute, you play a hole into the wind, so you get on the next and you think it should be down and it plays into.  And then you get to the following hole and you think it should be the opposite and it's totally different.   
To go out there and not drop a shot and shoot 8-under, hats off to Westy.  That was some round of golf.   
 Q.  Is this the toughest golf course you play on the schedule?  
ROSS FISHER: It's definitely up there.  You know, with the heat and the altitude, the grass that you have to play off, and then to factor the wind around here, yeah, it's definitely up there.   
You don't necessarily get punished for missing fairways, but if you miss the rough, then you're in thick bushes.  It's one of those courses where you cannot take your eye off the ball for one second because you can easily run up a double, a triple, or like me, a quintuple.   
It's one of those courses that tests your mental aspects, every facet of your game, but that's why I love coming here.  I think it's a fantastic golf course, great fun, and nice to get out there on the last and finish fourth on my own.   
 Q.  How much are you looking forward to DP World and going into Dubai in good form?  
ROSS FISHER: Yeah, definitely.  I felt like I played really well last year.  I forget where I finished last year.  It was around Top-10 or roundabout.  I don't think I had a realistic chance of winning but I was kind of there or thereabouts going into Sunday.   
Obviously it's a long golf course so it suits me.  You have to drive it long and straight.  I think the place with DP World, it depends on your tee off times.  You want to get off late as possible because first thing in the morning the ball doesn't fly that far and the par 5s you can't reach.  Once you get to the middle of the morning or the afternoon, you can reach all the par 5s.  That will be key next week.   
Hopefully keep the same form from this week and just go out there and have some fun and try and finish off the season strong.  That's all I can ask for.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT