IRISH OPEN PRESENTED BY DISCOVER IRELAND
July 29, 2011
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Ross, a second round of 3-under par, how do you feel about that one? 
 ROSS FISHER: Relieved I would say. I felt like I didn't play particularly good to be honest. Struggled off the tee. Didn't hit too many fairways, and around this golf course, you're going to struggle a bit. Just felt like my swing was slightly off. I pulled too many shots really. To not be quite on your game and go around the course under par is obviously very pleasing. 

 Q. You've been driving the ball a lot better recently, is it something that you feel like you can fix with a decent practise session?
 ROSS FISHER: I hope so. It's different, because I drove it lovely at Castle Stuart and, at The Open I hit it really, really. Good, but obviously those conditions, I was windy, so I was trying to lower my ball flight and when trying to get on top of my driver low and get it running where this week it's not that breezy. So I'm trying to go back to how I normally hit it. 
 When I do try and hit the lower one, it's not really working, so I'm sticking with what I normally do. But unfortunately that wasn't working that great today but I think it's just, you know, a good afternoon, evening off, come back, warm up for tomorrow and hopefully it will be fine.

 Q. You won this championship in tremendous style last year; how much did you feed off those memories this weekend? 
 ROSS FISHER: I felt like I played pretty solid all week last year, probably apart from the back kind of 11, 12 holes on Saturday, I got it going in the front nine, and let everyone back into it, because I could have really built a good lead going into Sunday. 
 Having said that, to win by two and having Harrington breathing down your neck, it inspires confidence, and I'm obviously delighted to be back here defending my title and so far I've done two good days work and two more good days of work hopefully left in me. 

 Q. Thoughts on the day?
 ROSS FISHER: Pleasing. Like I say I didn't have my A Game today. Wednesday in the Pro-Am I felt like I played really nicely. There wasn't any glimmer of making bogeys and then yesterday was a battle. 
 I wasn't quite on my game but today was a little worse than yesterday, and I felt like the swing was slightly off and I pulled quite a lot of approaches and short irons, so you know, fortunately I managed to scramble, got up-and-down a few times, and made a couple of nice birdies on the back side and especially getting up-and-down on the 17th was huge. 
 So to go around and shoot 3-under, 7-under for two days, having not played my A Game yet, I'm obviously very delighted with that.

 Q. And I state the obvious that that's a lovely position on the leaderboard to be. 
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, good position. Jeev is obviously playing well, 9-under, and a lot of guys on 7, and I think Anders, or Søren, I forget which one -- Anders is not playing this week, so Søren; and Marcel, he's only on his front nine.
 The scoring is good today. It's been kind, dry, pleasant, not much breeze about. It's trickier than last year. There's a little bit more rough out there, and I missed a lot of fairways and got lucky -- 15, I had a horrendous line and was just pleased to get it on the green.
 Like I say, to be 7-under, two off the lead at the moment going into 36 holes on the weekend, I like my chances.

 Q. With what happened to you last year, and the wonderful low round that you put in as well does that cross your mind when you are out there and there are the frustrations?
 ROSS FISHER: It does yeah. I thought I would try to inspire myself by wearing purple again on Friday like last year but unfortunately when I made an early bogey it wasn't going to be 61 or 59. 
 It's a good position to be in with 36 holes to play, and like you say, I've got very fond memories of last year, obviously shooting that 61, leading from the weekend, having the lead Saturday night and having the lead teeing off Sunday, having Harrington breathe down my neck, was tremendous. 
 But to come through and win by two, I was delighted. Any sort of performance like I produced last year, I feel like I have a good chance. 

 Q. And it's a decent fashion statement anyway, nicely coordinated. 
 ROSS FISHER: Thank you very much. I always like to please. 

 Q. It is quite a bunched leaderboard, and tomorrow is an extra impetus to go out and make a statement --
 ROSS FISHER: Possibly. It's the old cliché, Saturday is moving day, which it pretty much is. Thursday, you can't win it but you can definitely lose it. Friday is obviously, trying to make the cut, but to be honest, I never like to sound big-headed but I never think about making cuts. I feel strongly that I'm here to contend and win golf tournaments, week-in, week-out. 
 So you know, stage one, Stage 2, is out of the way. Stage three is moving day. Is so we've got that to come, and then, you know, all you want to do is give yourself a chance on the back nine on Sunday to win a golf tournament. That's what myself and all of the other guys want.
 And you know, I've got good memories from last year, I like the golf course, it fits my eye well, not playing as well as I did last year, but hopefully a little bit of work on the range, a good warmup session tomorrow, go out there, shoot a good score and give myself a nice position to be in at the end of Saturday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT