VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 20, 2011
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. An hour ago you were 3-down and four to play and now standing here; explain that.   
 ROSS FISHER: I can't to be honest. I mean, shouldn't have won that game to be fair. Played a terrible eight holes and then started to play better.   
 But you know, I was 4-down and I just thought, you know, could be down hopefully early but match play is a funny game. You win 9 and I win 10. And then obviously 11, I'm thinking, right, win this one to go back to 1-down and all of a sudden Ryan holes one from 45, 50 feet and it's game on.   
 I just hung in there, just tried to trust as much as I could, made a couple of mistakes coming in. A little bit unlucky he got on 15, 16 and 17, but that's golf. Sometimes you get good breaks and sometimes you get bad breaks.  
  
  Q. When you see him making bogey at 15 and 16, as well, are you thinking, he's feeling this a little bit, I've got a chance?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, obviously you're trying to concentrate on your own game and just trying to hit fairways and greens and give yourself chances, but it's hard to look when you hit a shot on 15 -- it was huge to win that hole. And 16, I thought he was in the trap and he wasn't, but then to get a line like that in, and for him to lip out, it's seriously game on here.  
 When I saw it go in the bunker, I thought I had a great chance.   
  
  Q. You know you're through to the last 16, how do you approach that?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I'm just relieved, you know, this afternoon, just going to try get a quick bite to eat, hit a few balls and try to enjoy it and hopefully play a bit better than I did this morning.   
  
  Q. Awkward match this morning which you won, does it give you confidence going into this afternoon?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I played terrible. I thought I gifted Ryan the match, but just hung in there and started to play a bit better and he dropped a few shots and feel very relieved to come out on top.  
  
  Q. Going to enjoy this afternoon?   
 ROSS FISHER: Tomorrow, yes, absolutely. I think if I would have halved this morning, would have been a different story but thankfully I birdied 18 to go 1-up, and yeah, it will be a lot more enjoyable.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT