VOLVO WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
May 18, 2011
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   STEVE TODD: Welcome to the media centre here at Finca Cortesin. I'm sure there's a few happy memories from 2009. Been a long time waiting to defend your title but must be nice to be back.  
 ROSS FISHER: Absolutely. Always nice to come back to Europe, especially, but for me, yeah, it's nice to be back on turf that I feel very comfortable on. Obviously doing so well a couple of years ago, obviously disappointed not to have gone back last year but hey, to be The World Match Play Champion for almost two years, has quite a nice ring to it.  
 So yeah, just really excited to back here and can't wait to get going.  
 STEVE TODD: The draw has not been particularly kind to you, with Luke Donald, one of the highest-ranked players in the world, and Ryan Moore; if you can reflect on the draw.   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I suppose in match play, you kind of think, who would I like to get. But looking at the calibre of players here this week, there's not really an easy way through to the quarterfinals. There's some really strong players here this week.   
 So you know, you're going to get tough games whoever you get head up against and obviously myself being with Luke and Ryan, you know, they are going to be two very tough games. Obviously Luke is in great form, Ryan has had a few good weeks and it's going to be tough, but I like my chances.   
 Like I say, I've got good memories of this place, so hopefully they will come flooding back and I'll get off to a good start.   
  
  Q. Can you remember your strategy from two years ago?   
 ROSS FISHER: Just one shot at a time. You know, match play is different to stroke play. You can be a bit more aggressive. But I'll probably just try and do the same sort of things as I was doing two years ago. Just hit the driver as much as I can, try and drive it long and straight, and in match play, just try to keep the ball in play, try to give yourself as many birdie chances as you can, just try and wear your opponent down.   
  
  Q. How would you characterise the year so far?  
 ROSS FISHER: Disappointing I would say. You know, obviously you set your standards very, very high and I'm no different to that. If I'm being honest, it has been disappointing so far, not too many results to kind of jump around at.   
 Game is in descent shape. Dubai was a good week, and obviously the Masters was a disappointing finish to what was a really good week. Gave myself a chance on the weekend but unfortunately just didn't quite pull it off.   
 So you know, the game's not quite been as good as I would have hoped it was, but you know, there's still a long way to go and like I say, I'm really happy and excited to be back in Europe.   
 Got three big weeks now with this week, Wentworth and Wales, so hopefully this week will kick-start, and I'll take something from this week and hopefully the season will be a good start from year.  
  
  Q. Aiming to get back into the Top-50?  
 ROSS FISHER: Absolutely, yeah.   
  
  Q. Does it feel a bit odd to be the defending champion and not playing tomorrow?   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I suppose a little bit, but criteria has changed a little bit, the format.  
 So you know, whether it's a good thing or a bad thing, I don't know. You know, after missing the cut last week and having a couple of days off, I suppose for me it's probably a good thing I've got an extra day to work hard tomorrow and get my game in good shape going into playing a potential 36 holes on Friday.   
  
  Q. What's your situation with the Majors, the U.S. Open and open, are you in both?   
 ROSS FISHER: As far as I know I am. But I'll have to double-check that.   
  
  Q. Do you want to know?   
 ROSS FISHER: I'm sure I'll find out at some point.   
 STEVE TODD: Thanks for joining us, Ross.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT