MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 ROSS FISHER: Delighted. Any time you can go around this course in under 70. But at the same time kind of walking off a little bit disappointed because I felt like I played very nicely today.   
 I rolled some putts and any time you can make five birdies on the front nine you have to be very, very pleased. And I was trying to take momentum in the back and I holed a monster on 11 and made a great save on 12.   
 So just wanted to try and birdie the par-5s, unfortunately didn't do that. And a shame to drop one on 17, but overall pleased with 69.   
  
  Q. What happened on 17 and 18?  
 ROSS FISHER: 17 I just didn't hit a good drive, pulled it a little bit left and had no choice but to lay up.   
 Didn't really have a great number to the pin there. Played a reasonable shot in there and hit a nice putt, but these greens are very, very quick. If you get above the hole it's difficult to make putts. Your speed and line have got to be dead on.   
 And I actually had to hole a good 5-footer for 5. So it was nice to hole that.   
 And then 18 I hit two lovely shots in there and unfortunately just hit the putt a little bit too firm. But 69, I'll definitely take it.  
  
  Q. When you got to 4-under on the back nine there were you thinking, I could push this on 15?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah. Absolutely. I think to hole that putt on 11, you know, especially after missing a good chance on 10, that was a real bonus. You're not expecting to hole that. Especially seeing Jonathan race it 10 feet past in front of me I knew it was a quick putt.   
 But I made a great save on 11. 13 and 15 are great birdie chances. And unfortunately 13, didn't hit a good drive, forced to lay up. Didn't hit a great pitch.   
 And then 15, didn't hit a great 4-iron in, but hit a lovely first putt and unfortunately just misread the second putt.   
  
  Q. What was it like being out in the first group as well because conditions changed quite dramatically through the course of the round.   
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I started with three layers on and look at me I got one layer on now. So yeah it was great.   
 You never want to see the tee time 7:45, but once you're up here, you're the first guys out on the course, so you get the best of the greens.   
 And obviously it was a special treat for the three of us to see two legends like Arnie and Jack get it under way. That was pretty special to be here and witness that.   
  
  Q. Did you stand there? Obviously you're getting ready for your round, but you took a moment did you to watch?  
 ROSS FISHER: Absolutely. I mean it's not often you get two legends of the game standing on the same tee playing in the same group. And they showed us that they still got it. Sean thought that Arnie actually knocked it past him on the first hole. So, yeah, it was good fun to see those two guys.  
  
  Q. Bit like a couple years ago, 2009, you're playing in a big, big tournament, playing well, right up there early on, with your wife expecting a baby. Does that make it more -- do you concentrate more? Is it quite nice to get on the golf course?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, no, she said best of wishes and best of luck. And it's completely different because it's our second. The first one was due the week of The Open whereas the second one is due after. So hopefully not like last time, she hung on and I didn't, so hopefully I can hang on this time.   
  
  Q. Was it an issue about slow play?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, we got on the clock I think it was on number 8. So obviously you're the first group out, you're trying to set the pace and obviously we weren't doing a very good job of it.   
 So you do have that in the back of your mind. And they, unfortunately, came up to me and said, on 10, and said that was a bad time for you on the ninth green. So you have always got that in the back of your mind thinking that, am I not allowed to have two looks at this putt because you're not sure how quick or how slow you're allowed to play.   
 But obviously being the first group it's our job to set the pace and unfortunately we were a little bit behind to start off it, but I think we got around in good time.  
  
  Q. That was the last problem you had though?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah. No.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 ROSS FISHER: No, not really. Two years ago was obviously a long time ago, but obviously I had great memories of that, obviously getting off to a good start two years ago and birdieing 16 to get to 6-under and you kind of looked around and you see your name up in lights on the leaderboard. Unfortunately I kind of choked making five, five two years ago, so it was nice to kind of hang on this year.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT