DUBAI WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY DP WORLD
November 27, 2010
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  Third Round 71. 10-Under. 206 Total.  
   
  Q. Despite your 3-putt on the 18th, 1-under par for the day, how difficult was scoring today?   
 ROSS FISHER: Don't know if it was so much scoring. Just unfortunately for me, didn't play quite as well as yesterday.   
 You know, just struggled a little bit. Hit some real nice shots at times. Unfortunately didn't capitalise, but gave myself a lot of chances and then obviously 18, I had a chance to go for it in two and unfortunately didn't hit the right shots.   
 So it's a shame, but I'm still two off the lead.  
  
  Q. Feel comfortable going into tomorrow?  
 ROSS FISHER: Absolutely, yeah, why not. Game is in good shape so I've just got to go out and play good golf and see where that puts me.   
  
  Q. How do you reflect on today, a little bit harder work out there?  
 ROSS FISHER: I made it harder. I didn't play as well as yesterday. But no, there were some glimmers of good golf that I produced yesterday and I hit some real close shots, hit a lot of shots close.   
 I missed a couple of putts at key times. You know, not birdieing the par 3, and then unfortunately not birdieing the par 5, but you know, stayed patient. Hit a great drive on 15 on to the green and unfortunately didn't capitalise there and 3-putted for par.   
 You know, kind of made a 3 on 16 where I was least expecting it. Hit a great shot in, unfortunately was just through the back edge and didn't have a great lie and I made three.   
 You know, there was a lot of positives. Just a shame obviously to have a chance on the last to hopefully get to 12, and what would have been level with Poults going into tomorrow. Unfortunately second shot didn't quite come off, and you know, was left with an impossible fourth shot. So you know, shame to walk off with 6, but overall, two shots behind. Anything can happen.   
  
  Q. That is the big positive. I'm sure you'll tell yourself repeatedly because you're right in there?  
 ROSS FISHER: Absolutely  I'm right in there. Poults is playing good golf. You know, dropped his first shot and his second shot of the whole week today. So that just shows how good he's playing.   
 So he's going to be a tough man to beat and right up there, as well, you've got Francesco just come off the back of a great victory at HSBC and Westy obviously at world No. 1. So it's going to be tough. There's some good quality players there. So I need to go out there and play well, hopefully shoot a decent score, and look at that leaderboard and hopefully it will be good enough.  
  
  Q. Ian is always a player who holds himself very well and shows that positivity and oozes it out on the course. Is it obvious how well he's playing -- you might have seen last week on TV, but certainly the way he's playing this week?  
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I was chatting to his caddie the other day, and I think he said the last round, he only shot -- I forget what he shot the last day, but I think he said they missed about eight or ten putts inside 12 feet. You know, it just shows how good he's playing. He's driving it lovely, he's hitting his iron shots good.   
 In my eyes, he's one of the best putters in the world. I've been fortunate enough to witness it in Ryder Cups and playing two World Cups with him. He reads greens very well. He putts very well on grain, and as it's shown so far this week. He's obviously very confident, sky-high after winning Hong Kong. So he's going to be a tough man to beat. But if I can produce the form I showed yesterday, I feel like I've got a good chance.   
  
  Q. Presumably, you can, because that round is in there once again?  
 ROSS FISHER: Well, 71, 64, 71; let's hope it continues.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT