WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2010
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  Third Round 69 (-8) 208 Total.

 Q. Positive all around? 
 ROSS FISHER: It's been pretty good. Playing some good golf. You know, playing pretty decent. 8-under is decent. Could be better; if I start holing a few putts, it could be really good.
 I'm in touching distance of Frankie and Lee, and I'm going to have to go out there tomorrow and shoot a good score. Probably going to need a mid-60s if I'm going to seriously try and win this. Put myself in good shape and going to go out there and shoot a good one tomorrow.

 Q. Reading between the lines, you feel the round is there and you're coming close to it?
 ROSS FISHER: Definitely. I played great the first day. Played solid yesterday. Gave myself a lot of chances. Just didn't capitalise unfortunately. And then played pretty solid today. You know, 8-under with three to play, got a mud ball on 16, unfortunately 3-putted that, so kind of halted what was a decent round. I missed a short one on 15 from six feet, but nice to 2-putt the last and 8-under is solid three days.

 Q. It's always a lovely feeling to birdie the last but in this case it could be very important depending what the leaders do?
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, could be. Could be. Frankie is 13, Lee is 12, and Luke is 10, and I think myself and Richie are 8. 
 There's a long way to go. There's plenty of birdie opportunities out there and you've got to play very good golf and play solid and hole the putts. It's one of the biggest tournaments outside Majors that we play in. 
 So pressure is going to be on tomorrow and hopefully I can get out there, post a good number and see if it's good enough.

 Q. And you have performed well here before?
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I've done all right here before, 2007. It was one of those looking back I should have won, but I didn't. That's golf. I learned how to lose before I learned how to win, as they say. 
 You know, it was a tough loss, leading most of the week and then to not get it done in the playoff was obviously disappointing. Like I say, that's golf, disappointing, and you can't dwell on things like that. You've got to bounce back and obviously I've bounced back very, very positively.

 Q. You suggest that you've learned a lot from that occasion. I take it you're an all together different golfer and that much better these days?
 ROSS FISHER: I hope so. Thank you for saying that. Hopefully. All I want to do is just go out there and put myself in contention to win golf tournaments. This week is no different. I turned up with the mind-set that I wanted to play well and wanted to compete. Three days, I've done that. I've been, what, third-to-last group today and looks like I could be second-last tomorrow. It's just great to be in the mix in such big golf tournaments. Very prestigious tournament this one, HSBC, good memories of 2007, so hopefully that will shine through for me for a good performance tomorrow. 

 Q. Any changes with the people, the effect of golf in China? 
 ROSS FISHER: Everything. The crowd and the fans are absolutely tremendous. Their knowledge for golf is becoming greater and greater each year. You've only got to look at the leaderboards. It's a star-studded field. You've got Westy, you've got Tiger here, you've got Phil here. You've got the best players in the world playing in this tournament.
 So it has grown in stature and it's a big tournament, it's a WGC event, which it should be. It's very, very important, and it's one that not only myself, but all of the guys look forward to. It comes at the end of the year. But it's obviously from a European standpoint, it's a great chance to put yourself in the mix with a very important Race to Dubai in Dubai. 
 So this week is huge obviously for that and World Ranking points. If I can go out there tomorrow and put a good performance in, we'll see how we fair. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT