ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2010
Ross Fisher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How good was that? 
 ROSS FISHER: I will take it, yeah, definitely. I think playing sort of the first 11, you try and get your score and then you just hang on for dear life, because it is pretty tough. 13 was a decent drive and a good 3-wood. 14, I hit driver, 3-wood, 5-iron. Hit a decent rescue on 15 ten yards short of the green. So it was playing tough. 
 So to take a couple of birdies and just one bogey on the back nine, I'm very, very pleased.

 Q. Last week at The Ryder Cup, Pádraig Harrington was helping you around the greens; you said how valuable that was, did you learn any lessons you can use for your future career?
 ROSS FISHER: I think if anything, just taking a bit more time. I do try and see from bother sides, but Pádraig, he was never hitting a putt unless he was absolutely happy with what line he had chosen. So if anything, maybe just take a little bit more time, as it is the most important part of the game. So just taking a bit more time this week and so far it's worked out.

 Q. Good return, isn't it?
 ROSS FISHER: Felt like I didn't get off to sort of a little iffy start at Kingsbarns and all of a sudden a great 5-iron into 9 to about four feet and walked off with 3 and was 2-under, picked 1-up on 10 and managed to shoot a decent shore. Bogeyed the last but 3-under was a solid start, and I think when we saw the forecast and what weather we have had, it seemed like this was probably the better out of the three courses to be at. When we finished the 11th and then made the turn for home; that was about as brutal as I have ever seen the back nine play. It was tough in The Open but is that was very different. The wind was pretty strong. It was a good 20-yard wind, plus it was cold. 
 So to come out and shoot 4-under, I'm very pleased.

 Q. And I take it your expectations were not enormous after the euphoria of last week? 
 ROSS FISHER: Yeah, I always set, you know, high expectations. I wouldn't have come here if I didn't feel like my game is ready and in good enough shape to win. I always try to turn up every single week knowing and believing that I can win, and this week's no different. I came close here a few years ago losing in a playoff to Robert and Martin. 
 I like the three courses. I feel like my game is in good shape, two good rounds, solid start, and hopefully get good rest tonight and fingers crossed the weather is good to us at Carnoustie and hopefully I can go out and shoot another decent score to give myself a chance around St. Andrews on Sunday.

 Q. Did it take a little bit of lifting to get back up from this or were you still flying from last week?
 ROSS FISHER: No, still pretty flying. You know, obviously celebrations were pretty good on Monday, and then drive home Tuesday with Jo and Eve just had a sort of nice leisurely afternoon and evening and got up and came here, did a little bit of practise on the Wednesday and felt ready to go. 
 So I wouldn't say I feel tired. I feel pretty fresh. Not sure at the end of this week, might be a hint of tiredness. 

 Q. Will you still be celebrating in the same way when you're holing putts? 
 ROSS FISHER: A little calmer, I'd say. It's funny, The Ryder Cup just brings more emotion and more passion out of you I would say. You know, chatting to Poults about it in the build-up to it and being partnered with him, you could see the passion and the desire to just want to go out and win a point for Europe. 
 You know, I kind of fed off that and then obviously being partnered with Paddy for the fourball and the foursomes was an absolute pleasure and I felt like we really gelled well together. Like I say, I was holing putts and was just trying to get that crowd really up and it seemed to work. 
 Who knows, if I'm holing a putt Sunday evening, there might be a bit of a celebration but there's a long way to go. 

 Q. Did you look at some of those images and say, was that really me? 
 ROSS FISHER: A few people said you looked like you were drawing it in, and I was. I was trying so hard for myself, for my teammates, for Monty, all the guys, all of Europe, The European Tour. We just really wanted to win the Cup back so badly. 
 I think that showed in my play. Every time I holed a putt, it meant that much to me, and it meant that much to our team. I think the crowd played a massive role and obviously every time you holed a putt, even walking up to the greens and stuff, you know, you wanted to get the crowd really buzzing. They were all week and they were absolutely fantastic.

 Q. A little odd coming back and not having as much of a crowd just as yet?
 ROSS FISHER: The weather does play a part in that but Saturday, hopefully fingers crossed Sunday, weekend, get some good crowds out there and hopefully I can be in the last few groups on Sunday with a chance to win coming down the stretch. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT