THE RYDER CUP
October 3, 2010
Ross Fisher
Edoardo Molinari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   ROSS FISHER: Six games, all blue, we wanted to keep it that way, but we knew the Americans were going to come out strong. And we did that. We just wanted to go into singles 8-all. To get those last couple of games turned around, and more the Molinari brothers to get that halve point was huge, really tremendous day. 

 Q. Describe the atmosphere. 
 ROSS FISHER: It was undescribable to the people that weren't here. You had to be here to witness it. It was just phenomenal. The crowd have been absolutely tremendous. You know, heard stories of arriving this morning, not being allowed into the place. 
 The people that stuck around and supported us, it meant everything to not only myself but the whole team. It was great. We just wanted to get out there and play some good golf and we wanted to get a point on the board as quickly as we can. We want to see a lot of blue. We want to get the crowd fired up. They have been great. The job's not done yet. 

 Q. It was a great feeling coming off the course, you could see Monty was on cloud nine. What was the atmosphere like in the team room? 
 ROSS FISHER: It was a high, but we are not getting complacent. They are going to come out all guns blazing tomorrow. 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: It was very loud, we played very well, we just made a mistake on 16 where we both had a bogey. But apart from that, I think we deserved our halve point at least. 

 Q. A great finish. 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: It was a great finish. When Cink missed the drive in the bunker, it was two against one, so we had definitely an advantage and we were good enough to win the hole. 

 Q. Looking forward to singles? 
 EDOARDO MOLINARI: Absolutely. I think it's going to be different. I think being Monday, hopefully the crowds, there will be enough people, we hope so, because we really need big support out there. It would be nice to go on ahead and win the session tomorrow and win The Ryder Cup. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT