AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2005
Guillermo Garcia-Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
Q.  Easily the biggest win of your career.  Does this give you a lot more confidence going on in this tournament? 
 
GUILLERMO GARCIA-LOPEZ:  I'm very happy and I think, yeah, it was the most important, you know, match in my life.  I beat Carlos Moya today.  He's one of the best players around the world, No. 4 in the world.  I think it was my best match.  I'm very happy.  It's unlucky to play two Spanish players, you know, in the first round.  But, okay, it's like this.  
 
Q.  Did having played in Chennai help today to play? 
 
GUILLERMO GARCIA-LOPEZ:  Yeah, it helped me.  It was my second semifinal in Chennai.  And I think that helped me for today, you know, for my confidence, to see that I can beat these kind of players.  I played a very good match in Chennai.  I was too close to beat him, it was 7-6 in the third.  But now I feel I can beat all these players better than my ranking.  Okay, I will try to do my best now in the tournament.  
 
Q.  How hard was it coming up against someone who must have been an idol when you were growing up or a player you looked up to? 
 
GUILLERMO GARCIA-LOPEZ:  I saw him when I was a child playing many tournaments, Davis Cup.  I think he's a very good player.  When I came today to play on the Vodafone, it's a very important court.  For me, I thought, "Okay, I can do it."  I was too close in Chennai.  Now I think it's a good time, you know, to do it.  Okay, I'm very, very happy to beat Carlos today.  
 
Q.  You played a very good game when you were serving for the match.  Were there any nerves? 
 
GUILLERMO GARCIA-LOPEZ:  The last game I played really, really good.  I thought, "Okay, I must be in focus.  It's just one game.  I have to hit the ball, try to take the initiative in this game.  I don't have to go back and try just to put the ball in; I have to play aggressive."  Okay, I hit the ball.  Okay, I was -- I think I feel not very nervous in the last game, but I was in focus just to think, "Hit and go.  Nothing too much, just put the ball.  Just hit and try to make the point."  
 

End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT