SHANGHAI ATP MASTERS 1000
October 12, 2009
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. ROBREDO/M. Llodra
  6-1, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. (Through Chinese translation) Last week you played in China Open, and you came to Shanghai this week. What's your impression of Beijing and Shanghai? And also, Shanghai Masters Cup is now changing to the Masters 1000. What improvement have you seen in Shanghai?
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, yeah, it's great to be back here in China, and Beijing last week and here in Shanghai again. About the two cities, it's great. In Beijing I have a lot of great memories from last year, Olympic Games. It was an amazing experience. 
 And also, every time I was there, the people there treat me so well, so I happy to be there back every year. Here, Shanghai, I think it's a great city with, I don't know, center of the city is great with a lot of great buildings, a lot of great restaurants. 
 And as well, I have been here two times for the Masters Cup, one as a player, one as an alternate, and another time just for promoting the ATP, one thing we did for promoting the Masters Cup, and now here it's amazing.
 When I came for the Masters Cup, what they did here was unbelievable. This center court stadium is I think the most beautiful court for sure on the tour, and it's great.
 And now when we come back and we saw all of the courts that they did outside, all of the buildings and everything, I think that it's -- I know it's a tennis center to be, that it can host like a Grand Slam easily. It's great, the facility they have and the treatment that we are receiving. 
 So I'm so happy to be here again, and I'm so happy and I wanted to congratulate the people who did all this job, because I think it's amazing. 

 Q. (Through Chinese translation) My question is what's your expectation of the forthcoming matches and basically what level would you like to reach?
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, obviously the expectation when you arrive to a tournament is to try to play the best, and let's see if we can arrive to the top rounds, no? Obviously it's a lot of matches to arrive at the top rounds, but for the moment today I played the first one and I won, and I'm very happy. 
 And in a bit I'm going to go play some doubles, so, yeah, I'm in good shape and I'm just looking forward to try to do my best tournament here. 

 Q. (Through Chinese translation) Just now Roddick, at the press conference, voiced his complaints on the schedule of ATP tournaments, and so basically you came all the way to Asia to participate in the matches. What's your view on the schedules of ATP tours?
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, it's a tough question, no? I think that everyone has his opinion about the tour and about the number of tournaments that we can play and we cannot play, and I have a different point of view of most of the players, no? 
 I think if we will have tournaments every week it will be perfect, no? Because then anyone has the chance to play the weeks he wants. The problem now is that we have the obligation to play certain tournaments and then we have to play the Masters 1000, the Grand Slams, and that's an obligation.
 Sometimes it's in a time that maybe you would like to rest a little bit, no? But besides that, I think that it's great to have these tournaments, because if not, we will lose our best tournaments that we have on tour, no? 
 But besides that, I think that is great to have a lot of tournaments, a lot of people just supporting tennis, and I think that we have to be happy about that. And then obviously if I prefer to come here and to play two weeks only, then it's okay. If would I like to come here and play five weeks, it will be perfect, no? Because then the fans in China, they can see me a lot more, I can play a lot more, and I can win a lot more money, so at the end, everybody is happy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT