INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA (MEN)
April 28, 2009
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. ROBREDO/M. Safin
  2-6, 7-6, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Obviously a slow start today. Took a while to get into the game. Just explain sort of the first set and a bit, because he was in control.  
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Yeah, well, absolutely. He was leading 6-2, 4-1, 30-Love with serve, which it's nearly the end of the match.   
 But suddenly I just won couple of point and then I could broke him that in that game.   
 Then, well, he was serving 5-4 and I saw that the first point he did double fault. So I did my best all the time, and finally I could broke him and win the tiebreak, which it was as really close tiebreak.   
 Then at the end of the third set, I new that if I was tough mentally I could beat him, because he would not be as tough as he was at the beginning.   
 Yeah, I think it was a great comeback.  
  
  Q. Did you feel a swing in momentum or a point in the game where you thought, This is mine to win?  
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Obviously when I won the second set I thought that it was my time right now, no, because I know Marat a lot of years. When things like that happen to him, maybe sometimes he gets pissed and then it's tough for him to keep playing the same level, no?   
 In the first game, I had Love-15 and a couple of chances to win the points, and then I did stupid mistakes. But then the second time he was serving then I broke him, and then he was leading pretty easy. It was helpful for the end of the match.  
 (Translated from Italian.)   
  
  Q. Would it be the concentration in the second set that changed the course of the match?   
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, normally a player, when he sees that the situation is 4-1, 30-Love and the other one is serving against him, they would think that they've lost the match.   
 But then Marat let me break, and so I went to 4-2, and then I went 4-3. At 5-4, my serve, he made some mistakes. That's when I was able to go 5-All. At 5-All we were still quite close. I didn't really know whether the match would go my way.   
 It was really only on 6-5 that I realized that had match was going my way.   
  
  Q. What would you say about the conditions?  
 TOMMY ROBREDO: They were terrible. At each point the shoes would pick up so much clay that it was like ice skating. There was no grip at all. He fell; I fell also. It's normally impossible to play, but we're players and we're used to this. Even though it's difficult, we have to play in these conditions.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT