U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2008
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  N. DJOKOVIC/T. Robredo  
4-6, 6-2, 6-3, 5-7, 6-3  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Obviously not the result that you would wanted to, but can you look at this tournament -- I mean, you came in, you were struggling and played very well and dispatched some very great opponents and played one today, you know, very tough match. I mean, can you feel pretty good about the tournament for you this past week?  
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Yeah, it was great tournament, and I'm happy about the way I lost. I think that when you get into the court, you know you can win or lose, but at least I gave everything that I could inside the court, so I'm happy about that. I'm not happy about the loss, but, anyway, that's the sport, how it is.   
 So one day you can win, one day you can lose. But I think I did a great job.  
  
  Q. How difficult an opponent did you find Novak in terms of his shot making and so forth? Describe how the match went between the two of you.   
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, I think he's a great player, so he's a great showman. He has a little bit of everything.  
 Anyway, I think that's why he's the third player in the world, no? Because to beat him, you have to play great all the time, and I did it nearly all the time, so I was nearly so close to beat him, no?   
 But anyway, obviously he's a great player.  
  
  Q. What did you find about your game? Did you find something when you got here that maybe made a big difference compared to how you were playing in the tournaments leading up to the US Open?  
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, I think lately I have been playing very good, but the results were not there, no? So I just keep working and keep trying to find the victories in the match, no?   
 I think here I did three great matches, and unlucky today I couldn't go through. Anyway, I think I did a great match, so it's a loss, but it's a loss with glory, you know? Playing my game. So it's a loss that it can happen.   
  
  Q. You were so upset with the linesman. Why?  
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Why? Because if we break one racquet, we have to pay $5,000 or whatever thing like this, and when the linesman make a mistake like the one he did, then he can change the match, then it's nothing, no?   
 It was I think 2-All, serving -- I was serving against the wind, and winning that point was 30-15 for me. So the game, it was pretty close for my side. Also Novak was doing the show, that he was -- that he couldn't run. So in that moment, I think that point was so important, and the ball was clearly inside the line.   
 So that's why I was so pissed, no? Because a ball like that can change a match, and I think it did it.   
  
  Q. You sound like you don't believe Djokovic's ailments . Is that true?  
 TOMMY ROBREDO: That's not that I don't believe. I have pain, as well. I was running like hell and my feet were burning but I say nothing, no? I think that if you're not fit enough, then don't play.   
 But after every time he was asking for a trainer, he was running like hell and he was making the shot, but he does what he does a lot of times.   
 So I think we should take care a lot more of these things, because one thing is that if you fell down like I did, I can have blood and it's normal that trainer gets in because there's blood or whatever. But for having pain, I had pain, as well, all over my body because I think I run a lot more than him, and I said nothing, no?   
 So did I trust him? No. No. I think he took his time because he did it because he was a little bit more tired and that's a part of the game. It help him a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT