PILOT PEN TENNIS PRESENTED BY SCHICK
August 23, 2007
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Just talk about the match, what went wrong.   
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think that I start a little bit slowly and then he broke me and he won the first set without losing the serve.  I had just one game Love-40 that I couldn't get the chances.   
 Then in the second the match was so close.  I had chance to break him and I couldn't.  And then in the toughest game on my serve I had advantage with the breakpoint for him, and then two balls, one touch the net and fly and one ball that missed a little bit.  Then he broke me and I couldn't broke back him.   
 That's it.  Just two games on my serve then he played better than me and the match went out.   
  
  Q.  Is it disappointing, or did you feel like you got enough work in for next week?   
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well always disappointing when you lose, no?  But we have to be focus.  I wasn't fit enough.  I had a little problems on my leg and I wasn't ready.  But I tried until the end and, well, I thought that maybe I would play worse.   
 I'm happy that I could play and I could play in a good level, so hopefully I'm going to be ready for the Open.   
  
  Q.  Where do you rate the Open as far as the majors?  Where does it rank with you?  What is your favorite major I guess would be the question?   
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think that obviously Paris is the one I prefer.  It's the closest one and it's on clay and it's nearly home.  And then, I don't know, I love Australia as a country, so it's nice to be there and playing there.   
 But anyway, obviously it's bigger, the US Open, and Australian for sure for media, crowds, and all of these things.  But anyway, I think that all of the four majors they are great.  We would love to have a lot more tournaments like them.   
  
  Q.  What's was wrong with your leg?  Did you have another injury recently?   
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, in the first match I had problems.  I thought it would be nothing, but then yesterday I couldn't practice and day before nearly nothing as well.  And it was just a muscle that's so stiff.   
 So I had to recover and today I wasn't 100% sure to play.  But anyway I tried and it wasn't painful so I could play, but I was maybe a little slowly.   
  
  Q.  Tough getting loose in this weather:  Cold, damp?   
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  It's not the problem of the weather.  It's a problem of sometimes the muscles.   
  
  Q.  Which leg is it?   
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Left.   
  
  Q.  What will do now, go New York and start getting ready?   
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  I'm going tomorrow morning I think.  Practice in the afternoon there and just relax until the day that I have to play.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you need a few days to rest your leg and not practice?   
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  No.  Today it was good to play without pain, so I'm better.  Tomorrow I can practice and day after for sure as well.  So, yeah, I think that maybe I will need one more day.   
 Today I could practice well and then tomorrow play a match, but it's the way it is when you have this problem on the first day of the tournament.  Then you have problems to practice and to recover.   
 But anyway, Wawrinka was playing a lot better than me so he deserve to win.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT