DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINALS: SPAIN v USA
April 8, 2007
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  What was it like, Tommy, for you to salvage a point for Spain today? 

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  I don't know.  It's just thankful for the people who support us.  I think that's the only reason why we were there keeping heart, no? 

 I think that when the tie is done, we are out, we always just care about the respect of the people.  I think the fans who came here and support us, and the people who is in Spain supporting us, I think they deserve us to fight till the end and try to win every point and every match, no?  That's why we get into the court and fight so hard. 

 For me winning today, especially it doesn't count, it's just for them. 

 Q.  Was it tough for you to gauge his game early on because it seems like you were playing evenly up until the end of the first set? 

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, obviously when you play against a lefty, a good lefty with a lot of power, with a lot of great serve, every time he was going to the volley, he never miss one volley.  I think it's tough, no?  You have to get the rhythm of the match.  In this type of court, it's so easy for him to make a lot of easy shots, no? 

 I knew if the match was going on, then it will be a lot more easier for me.  That's what I tried, just to try to get the rhythm of the returns.  As soon as I could get it, I broke him three times.  I finally could get the match. 

 Q.  Were there any tense moments for you when you were up two breaks, then you lost a break? 

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I don't think it was a tough moment.  I think it was just I knew my captain is going to make push-ups.  I was making fun of this.  He just broke me back once.  But it's a lot here in this court to have two breaks up.  Then I just get advantage and I finish the match. 

 Q.  I saw you ask Emilio to do some push-ups.  What was it with that? 

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, obviously it's tough to play days like today, no?  It's not going to change nothing if you win or lose.  As I told you, only the respect of the people. 

 But also we need to get a little more motivation extra, like some funny things to keep working.  Then when he's next to you, you can talk about something.  If not, it's boring, no?  All of the team, we are a little bit down.  We need to get some funny things to recover soon. 

 During the match, I just told him, Look, if you want me to push hard, you have to make 10 push-ups if we give Spain the first point.  He said, Okay, I do it, don't worry.  It was just something funny, I don't know, to keep focus. 

 Q.  What was your experience like in Winston-Salem like this week, not only the last couple days, but the days leading up to the matches? 

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, it was nice experience to see 24.  I have all the five seasons.  Now I'm on the fourth one.  I think it's good experience to see Jack Bauer making these things on the TV. 

 Q.  How is it unique playing singles against someone with a doubles background? 

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  I think you make a few mistakes on the sentences.  How is to play against the world No. 1 doubles players on the tour? 

 Q.  Playing singles against someone with a major doubles background. 

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Yeah, but also on a day it doesn't matter who wins, no?  Then it's a lot of difference because if we have to play for points and for going farther in a tournament, he's going to have a lot more pressure, then he's going to make a lot of mistakes. 

 I think it was a perfect day for him to play against a top 10 player without pressure in the best surface for him to try to beat me with 14,000 crowd.  I think it was a great match for him to try to play one singles match. 

 I think he's a great player of singles and doubles.  Obviously he's just decided to be focused on doubles.  I don't know, maybe he will be playing singles, he will be playing a lot of great tournaments. 

 But anyway, it's always tough to play with a world No. 1 player, even if it's in doubles. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT