DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINALS: SPAIN v USA
April 6, 2007
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English, please. 

 Q.  Talk about what you thought turned the events. 

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  After or before?  You mean after the match or before the match? 

 Q.  What do you think decided the match?  How much did the speed of the court affect things? 

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, obviously it's obvious the court is so fast, no?  You see the first 10 games of the match, it was only serve and serve and serve and serve, more serve.  That means that the court is so fast.  It's difficult to play, no? 

 I think if we check the video on the screen, maybe the longest point was six balls on the top of the net, no?  It means that something is going on.  For me it's obviously difficult to play in that court, no? 

 But, well, anyway, I think I didn't do a bad job.  I was always focused on the match.  I was trying always.  What I told them in Spanish, when you play with someone that he prefer so much that court than you, he's also great player as you, everything is on his favor, at the end it's normal it goes to his side, the call. 

 But in a way my job was to prepare that, was pushing till the end.  It was tough.  Anyway, James was playing good today.  It was not easy for me. 

 Q.  When you got down two sets, two breaks, in the third set, what was your mindset?  You were able to come back a little bit. 

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, obviously I don't want to lie to you, I want to break the locker room and I want to break the court, all the things, no? 

 But, anyway, I knew that till the last ball you have chances, no?  I knew that maybe it will cause a lot for him to finish the match because it's tough to finish the match, no?  You have to do the same thing till the end.  When you have the pressure, maybe it's difficult, no?  I think that's what happened at the end.  5-2, he had to serve.  I broke him.  I win my serve.  With 5-4, he make four great serves. 

 Anyway, I had the pressure there, and I knew that.  I knew fighting till the end, maybe I will have my chances, no?  I don't know, if I will be playing for my own in any other tournament, maybe 5-2 I will not go for return.  But playing for my country, I have to return and try to play any ball to win point by point and let's see if I can come back to the match, no? 

 That's what I tried.  At the end, it didn't work.  I think I did a good job anyway. 

 Q.  How was the emotion of the crowd, all the things that go with a Davis Cup match?  How is it different than a regular tour match for you? 

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, the Americans, they can do good things and bad things.  To make show, it's what they do the best, no?  I think it's great to have a Davis Cup in a place like that, with all the match, the show, the lights, the fire.  I don't know.  I think you do a good job making things like that.  I think it's great for players, for sport athletes to be in places like that.  It's good to be there. 

 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT