DAVIS CUP QUARTERFINALS: SPAIN v USA
April 5, 2007
Tommy Robredo
Emilio Sanchez
Fernando Verdasco
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   CAPTAIN EMILIO SANCHEZ: ... the team very well.  On the other side it's a difficulty to choose who's going to play.  But Fernando did a great job on the practice and adjust very well to the surface, and he has great potential.  I hope that he does a competitive match.   
  
  Q.  Tommy, talk about your first match of the weekend.  You're going to be opening it up.   

 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Yeah, it's true, I'm going to be the first one getting onto the court.  I think it's good for us, no?  Because I'm playing with Blake a few times and last time I beat him.  Then I think it will be great for us to start with a win, because then the Americans will have a lot of pressure, no?   

 But anyway, I'm going to just try to do my best get into the court and play my best tennis and see if we can have a great battle.   
  
  Q.  Fernando, can you talk about the surface itself and, you know, how you feel to be on that surface?   

 FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I think it's fast, no?  But I feel so good these days practicing and, you know, I think for my game I can play good here.   

 Anyway, with Andy it will be tough for sure because with his serve here it will be tough.  But I think they're the favorites here and we don't have nothing to lose.  I beat him twice, and I think that for me will be a very good match.  I always play good with him, and this is very important to play one match.   
  
  Q.  Emilio, was there any doubt in your mind that Andy Roddick was going to play for the United States?  Were you preparing all along for that reality?   

 CAPTAIN EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Of course, having to retire one week ago in Miami, and what came out in the press was he had a problem in the hamstring.  Normally these problems are very difficult to resolve.  We were doubting because we didn't have the information.   

 And we are not going to go to Patrick to see if he was a player.  We were checking a bit the practice here to see if he was okay.  Obviously he was taking it easy on the practice, so we had a lot of doubts if he was going play or not.   
  
  Q.  Fernando, you mentioned that you've had success against Andy.  Why do you match up with Andy as well as you do?  What is it about his game that falls into place for you?   

 FERNANDO VERDASCO:  I don't know.  I think with your style of game you have always players that you play better than other ones.  I always play good with him.  I played a lot of times, and you know, always -- last times I lost, but always when I play with him I play good.   

 The last time in the US Open I lost in five sets and I had my chance.  I think I always play good with him, and I think it will be a good match, no?  And I think I can beat him.  It's the most important thing.   
  
  Q.  Could you all speak about the American home-court advantage and how you think you'll play here on American soil.   

 CAPTAIN EMILIO SANCHEZ:  Well, for us it's a big challenge to be here.  As the president from the USTA said, this is one of the ties that the association put more people in the court.   

 And in a way, I suppose that us as rivals we have something to do about that.  So for us to be here, how they treat us and to go for the goal that we have to play competitive this weekend and be able to create chances to win is the only thing that we've we looking for.   

 So hopefully in three days we can talk about a surprise also and that we can do well and try to win.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT