AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2007
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  How much did the windy conditions affect your game? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, it didn't seem, but there was a lot of wind inside the court.  It was tough because last match I played in indoors.  It affect pretty much to my serve.  I think I didn't have a lot of percentage on the first serve in the beginning.  That's why I had to start serving a lot more kicks.  Then Roger was a lot -- he had a lot easier to return my serve and play the point from the baseline, no? 
 But, well, anyway, I don't know if it was better for me to have the win or better for him.  We never know. 

 Q.  What was the difference between the two of you?  There were three tight sets. 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  I think if you play against a guy like Roger and you broke him five times, you don't win a set to him, it's because something you are doing wrong on yourself.  I think Roger is a guy, he always put a lot of pressure.  Sometimes I was making a few mistakes I shouldn't.  Obviously sometimes he's so good and then he does his job pretty good, no? 
 I don't know.  I'm leaving with the feeling that maybe I could steal one set.  I had chances, and I couldn't take them. 

 Q.  You came in with such good form.  Is there a mental pressure on you when you face up to a guy like Roger?  Are you intimidated by him? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Intimidated, no.  It's a person.  Is not an animal.  You get into the court knowing that you have to do your game pretty good to beat him because obviously he's better than you, better than everyone, no? 
 Maybe in some points if he just put the ball inside, you have a lot of pressure.  But anyway, it's a guy that he always put the ball whenever he needs to.  Every time he goes to the net he wins the volley if you didn't pass him.  So difficult to pass him.  I don't know.  Playing on these courts, he's so good.  Then if you have a small chance, you should get it.  If not, then you're out. 
 I don't know.  The first set I lost 6-3.  I broke him twice.  He broke me three times.  On the second, as well, I get to the tiebreak.  I don't know, I had the feeling I could do even more.  But obviously he was doing great shot always in the important points.  It's the way it is. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT