TENNIS MASTERS CUP
November 13, 2006
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Could you just please review the game a little bit. 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think that it was a pretty good match.  I had my chances in the first set and, well, that's how it is.  That's sport.  If you have your chances and you don't get it, then maybe you're gonna miss that small points that you can change the match, no? 
 I think that I was driving the match in the good way, just making Nikolay play a lot of balls, a lot of rallies, and he was missing a few.  I think that it was a good way for me to try the match. 
 But at the end, I was serving for the first set, and then I lost this serve.  In the tiebreak, I had a few points that could change the set and the match, no? 
 Anyway, I think I played pretty good.  I have to take the good thing on the match.  Win one set and have more chances maybe than Rafa, no, that he couldn't do it today. 

 Q.  Two question.  First, now, this year the court has been changed to indoor hard, not indoor carpet.  So maybe I think Davydenko just said in the last interview you are not so fast as he expect move.  I mean, he means move.  Do you agree? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  That I was faster? 

 Q.  No, no, no, Davydenko.  He said why he win tonight because he think he faster. 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  You mean that I play different than Blake? 

 Q.  No, no, no, Davydenko.  Davydenko said you not as fast as Davydenko expect before the match.  Do you agree with it? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  But fast, you mean running? 

 Q.  Running, of course.  Moving.  Your move. 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  He thought that I'm gonna be faster? 

 Q.  Yeah.  So any physical problem for you?  Any injury? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I don't know.  I was not with the chronometer so I don't know if I am fast or not.  I think I was moving pretty good.  But I don't know.  I don't think I lost because I was moving slow or fast.  I think I lost because few balls could change the match.  Not it's a problem of moving, it's a problem of maybe putting the ball on the line or not going to the line.  I think that that's the reason of the way that the match was taking. 

 Q.  Second question, tonight Nadal also lost.  So maybe in the next match you meet, maybe just one of you can qualify to the semifinal.  So how do you feel?  Do you have any strategy of playing with Nadal? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I don't understand you so much, but what I think you are meaning is I lost and the other guy lost and we have to play each other next day to be alive, no?  That's how it is.  That's how it is in Masters Cup thing. 
 And there is nothing much to say.  I just have to go inside the court and try to win if I want to keep alive.  That's the beauty of sport.  If you don't win, you are out.  I think that that's normally how we play all the year, and we are really sad for that, no? 
 Last week, if I was losing the match, I was going home.  Here it's going to be more or less the same.  I think that's how it is. 

 Q.  Tommy, this is your first time in a Masters Cup.  So you have the private locker room, maybe some bodyguard.  You think this experience is a little unusual, a lot of fun for you?  Also, you are a newcomer in the Masters Cup.  How confident do you think, "I really belong to the Masters Cup here"? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  The second question, I didn't got it. 

 Q.  The second one? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Yeah. 

 Q.  How confident do you think you belong to the Masters Cup because you are the new guy here? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, the first one, having a bodyguard or a driver or my own private locker room, I think that that's how it is here, no?  And then if that's how it is here, I deserve that.  And I so proud of that the Masters Cup, they doing these things, because I think that's great, no, that the players, we can feel great, we can feel that they treat us like heroes and they treat us like stars, no? 
 And, well, maybe it is because we are stars in the world of tennis.  And I think it's great that the Masters Cup is here in Shanghai.  The people, they really work so hard for doing the Masters Cup so good, no? 
 Also, I think that the fans, I think they really deserve to have all of the great players here because I never saw fans like that.  They always cheering.  They always rooting for us even if it's 2 a.m. in the morning, they are giving us presents, giving us pictures to sign and they really support us and I think that's great. 
 Yes, why not?  If I'm world No. 6, it's because I deserve it and I'm there, no, with the top players.  Maybe you can think I shouldn't be here, or maybe you can think that I deserve it.  But at the end, the rankings, it's how it is.  I think that I did a pretty good year, and that's why I have my spot here and I gonna keep fighting till the end because I'm gonna try to improve it on the last match and on the last week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT