ATP MASTER SERIES MADRID
October 19, 2006
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Because you were risking important things in Madrid.  And yesterday the players for the champions race, you had a good place. 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  It's been a pity.  Not because of Shanghai only because in Madrid one likes to play well, but that's tennis.  Sometimes your opponent plays a little bit better than you, and that's tennis. 
 It's not bad the way I've been playing in Madrid and the way I'm leaving the tournament.  It's a fight for a very nice goal. 

 Q.  Your training thoughts at the end of the season, because you are risking many things, what are your conclusions of today's match and what do you need to improve for the remaining tournaments? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I would like it if I said I'm training hard.  I haven't trained that much, especially when you have very close tournaments, you should try to adapt to the tournament and try and play well. 
 Today's match, my game has been at a high level from behind the baseline.  However, at some points I tried to risk too much.  Because of his high level, he was playing well.  So I risked a few balls and made unforced errors. 
 For instance, the first serve of his, I let it go thinking that it was out, finding it was in.  But these things happen.  You win points, you lose some of the points, and then you win or lose a match.  It has not been a disaster.  But in the important moments, he was more consistent and did not make as many errors as me. 

 Q.  Paris is key in your qualifying for Shanghai.  Do you like the surface? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Yes, it's true.  I played well.  I got to the quarter finals.  I felt comfortable.  Now I'm going to go to St. Petersburg.  Maybe win a few points there.  And if not it's going to be decided at Paris.  I knew before coming here that Paris would be key, and it would be decided there.  But I'd rather be in my position right now in the ranking than in other players' positions.  High in the ranking maybe as compares it to a couple of matches to guaranty my access to the Masters Cup. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT