ATP MASTER SERIES MADRID
October 17, 2006
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Tommy, you suffered a little bit more than usual against Chela? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  He's a great player, yes.  He's very consistent.  He forces you to play every ball, every point.  He returns every ball also. 
 It began with him serving great and it has been difficult.  Then I return to my match well.  I broke his serve.  There was a point where the match turned to my side.  He has shown to be a bit weaker.  He had a few break balls, and I served with advantage, then he had a 3-Love and that 3-Love could have been mine, but it was his.  That changed a little bit the curve of the match.  But it came back to me again.  I was prepared for a third set, if necessary. 

 Q.  Hi, Tommy.  How do you feel being the first Spaniard at staying in the draw?  It's a pity what happened yesterday. 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, to be the first is not a great satisfaction.  What I want is to improve step by step and win match after match. 
 If other Spaniards follow me, that's great.  If not, what I'm focusing on is Shanghai.  That's my goal.  It's a very -- it's a beautiful goal to be at Shanghai, and I need to win.  To start here winning has been important.  I hope it's not the only one.  This is a tournament I enjoy here in Madrid.  The crowd has always supported me.  I like playing here at Madrid. 

 Q.  Tommy, Ginepri or Ancic, have you seen Ginepri's match against Feliciano the other night?  Yeah, that thing he did with his hand to the crowd? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Yeah, he did that.  Then he can win.  To be honest, then I'd like Ginepri to win.  That way I have one rival less for Shanghai.  Because if someone here has a chance to be closer to me, like Ginepri, for instance, to win -- if he's better than Ginepri, I'll win.  If he's better than me, he will win.  It's far more comfortable to play against Ginepri than against Ancic.  If he did this with his hand, well, I guess the crowd will support me instead of him. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT