WESTERN & SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 19, 2006
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Is this as good as you've seen Juan Carlos play in a while? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think that he was playing pretty good, but I think he was playing better yesterday or day before than today.  I think that way it was not his best match, but anyway it was tough for me. 

 Q.  What was the injury, Tommy? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  No, it's just, I don't know.  A muscle just get very stiff.  For me, it's tough to stand up because adductor, it's pain me. 
 I don't know.  It's I hope nothing serious, no?  But in Toronto I had same problems on third round with Safin.  And here yesterday after the match I was feeling the same.  It's not a really problem, it's just that it's getting so stiff and then it's tough for me to move. 

 Q.  After you had that, you became more aggressive and tried to hit more winners obviously to try to get the points over quicker? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Yeah, I had the problem since the beginning of the match, but anyway I broke him on the second set because he missed a lot.  And then I had the chance to lead 3-1, but I was also hitting after the serve to the first forehand or backhand, trying to win it straight, no, and it's tough to play like this. 
 And I knew that running and running, it will be so tough for me.  I just tried to hit hard and tried to be aggressive.  That's why I was missing a lot more today than normal, you know? 
 But some time it happen.  When you are not physically perfect, then you have to try other things. 

 Q.  You think it's something that will just improve with a few days' rest? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, the leg? 

 Q.  Yeah. 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  No, yeah, sure.  I think that in Toronto, even playing, working hard on this, it was a lot better.  But yesterday I finished late, was tough to work on that. 
 I don't know.  It's also four matches during the week and it's getting tougher and tougher, no?  But it's like this.  If you want to win a tournament, you have to be physically perfect all days, and mentally.  If one of this doesn't help you during one day, then you can lose. 

 Q.  You started today with five unforced errors from that forehand side.  Was it because of the injury or something else, something wrong with the forehand? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  When was this five? 

 Q.  At the beginning, first game.  First five errors was the forehand side. 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  The first game serving him?  It was four points, serve points, I think.  I didn't put the ball inside.  And then when I was serving, I won the game pretty easy, and then it was when I make the break.  I don't know. 
 I start playing good, no, but anyway I was leading 2-1 with a break.  Then it's a pretty good start for me. 

 Q.  You had a point to break for 5-3 in the second set, I think, and if you had won that and taken the second set, do you think you would have lasted a final set okay with the leg? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I would tried, for sure.  But it's always tough when you have been playing for nearly one hour hitting every ball and trying to don't run, then when you are breakpoint, you don't know if you have to run or you have to just hit hard and try to see if it's gonna work or not. 
 And then I just tried to put the ball inside and tried to run a little more, and I missed.  I missed.  Maybe I should hit harder the return and let's see what happen. 
 But, yeah, at playing how I was playing, I could play three sets.  But the thing is, if he was moving me from the beginning of the point, it was tough for me to run every ball.  But even like that, I had chances.  I had my breakpoint and maybe if I got that breakpoint, well, I could serve for the set, win the second, and then maybe he can get nervous and miss a few points. 

 Q.  Do you think he's back to the standard he was before? 
 TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think he's on the way.  Is not back yet. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT