TMS - MADRID
October 10, 2005
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish. 


Q.  What do you think you should have done to win the match? 

TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, it's difficult to defeat Rafa any day.  I think I played a good match.  But to defeat Rafa, you need to really be in good form, because he makes no errors.  Five or six balls I played well, but I forced too much my play.  That made me make errors.  It's a pity, second set, we were at deuce.  That could have changed the match.  Then he made a quick break.  That was the key of the match.  Rafa usually makes you play to the limit.  You can play that way for a few minutes, but not constantly.  That makes you lose the match. 

Q.  Do you see Rafa as the favorite of the tournament? 

TOMMY ROBREDO:  Of course, the first seed of the tournament is always the favorite, especially if you're Rafa or Federer who are playing such good tennis this year.  Logically they're a favorite.  But everyone is playing well.  Any player can win the tournament.  In a tournament like tennis, you must expect surprises.  Maybe Rafa is really wishing to win here in Madrid.  That might be a problem for him.  Yesterday he played well.  Today, too.  He has many opportunities of winning the match. 

Q.  Did you feel the crowd support today in Madrid? 

TOMMY ROBREDO:  I think the crowd always supports me, they support the tennis players here in Madrid.  They did last year.  This year they're doing it, too.  It's a pleasure to be here in Madrid.  The crowd is always supporting us.  In Catalonia, I always tell me friends that no one there stops me in the street to tell me anything.  But when I come here to Madrid, people know me.  People say hello to me.  People in Madrid are very welcoming, like stars of sports.  I'm one of those.  So I feel their support.  It's a pleasure to be here and feel their warmth.  .

Q.  Do you think he can win this tournament?

TOMMY ROBREDO:  As I've already said, the first seed of the tournament is always the favorite, especially if he's Nadal or Federer, who are at a higher level than the rest of us.  So he can win the tournament here in Madrid, for sure.  But it's a long tournament.  We must not forget that the other players are also good tennis players. 

Q.  Did you feel comfortable today with Nadal, more comfortable than yesterday against Moya? 

TOMMY ROBREDO:  You cannot compare because Moya has his own weapons and Rafa has his weapons.  Carlos allows you to play more when you serve.  On the other hand, Rafa is more uncomfortable to play against because he hits the ball with a strange effect, and it's difficult to control the ball.  Medium speed is higher in the case of Rafa.  You need to be focused because sometimes the ball goes out.  This doesn't happen with Carlos.  Yesterday I felt comfortable.  Today, too.  But a match is lost because of the small details.  I had the chance, but the second set I lost it.  For instance, if you face a player like Rafa that gives you so few chances, if you don't grab them, the match is lost.

Q.  Do you feel like playing the Davis Cup or do you think you have the door open to the Davis Cup, even if it doesn't depend on you? 

TOMMY ROBREDO:  If they call me, I'll be there.  I'll be willing to be there, of course. 

Q.  What is your opinion on this controversial subject about the appointment of Emilio Sanchez as a captain instead of Albert? 

TOMMY ROBREDO:  I keep my opinion to myself.  I don't like to see on the newspapers that the player criticizes another player or a captain or a president. 

Q.  And about Emilio? 

TOMMY ROBREDO:  Any captain must be respected by the rest of us.  I think Emilio is a very qualified person for this role.  Anything Emilio says I'll respect it and try to give my best as I've done with other captains. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT