US OPEN
September 5, 2005
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English.  
 
 
Q.  You were in complete command of that match going near the end of the second set.  He got hot with his groundstrokes.  What do you think happened towards the end of the second set?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think it was a really easy match for me, and then I had the chance and I didn't get it.  When you have a big chance like this and you don't get it, then it's tough, no?  I let him the chance to survive, and then he just kill me.  
 
Q.  Toward the end of the second set, two big backhands down the line.  Did that surprise you?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  Doesn't get his backhand.  What I should care about is my serve.  I cannot make two double-fault in a service for maybe the match because he was playing bad and I was playing good.  It was two sets to love for me if I just won that game, no?  I think it would be maybe he's dead.  But then I saw that.  I don't know.  I didn't serve as well as I used to.  I made two double-faults.  It's Love-30, then 30-All.  One double-fault again.  I didn't get it.  Then it's tough.  He's a good player.  If you let him the chance to come back, then it's tough.  
 
Q.  What in particular about his game gave you trouble after you lost the service game in the second set?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  After that game, everything.  Before, nothing.  I think it was not a thing of tennis today.  It was a thing of mental things.  Before that, it was an easy match for me.  Everything was so easy.  Every time I was hitting to his backhand, every time I was serving good, I was winning a lot of points.  I don't know, I was inside the line and doing whatever I wanted to do.  And then, you know, I let him go inside, and he was just -- I don't know, he just expected two sets down, and he saw it was one set all.  It changes everything. 
 
Q.  Did the loud fans he had, did they bother you at all? 
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  No.  We are too far.  We cannot listen anything.  
 
Q.  You have such a beautiful backhand.  Don't you think on a court this fast maybe you should make a more abbreviated stroke? 
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  At the start of the match, I had a lot of time.  At the end of the match, I didn't had that much time.  I don't think it was a thing of my backhand.  It was a thing of the game.  When everything is going well, I have time enough to make two backhands and then I can hit the ball.  I don't know.  I don't think it was a thing of backhand or forehand or serve or volley.  It was a thing of I didn't get a situation as good as I should do, and then I lost.  
 
Q.  There are losses that are easy to forget.  There are matches that are hard to forget.  Will this be one of those matches which will be on your mind for a long time? 
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, of course.  I have to see my last time, my last three times playing here, fourth round.  The last two, it was so easy, I could not do anything.  This one, it was so easy for me, and I could do lot of things, and I didn't.  Of course, if I have to choose one of these three, this one, it will be the easiest one for me to get into quarters.  Because the other ones, it was three sets to love easy for the other.  Here, it should be three sets to love for me real easy.  Well, I don't know.  Something happen in my mind in that part of the game, in that moment, and I didn't get so good to get it, no?  And then I miss.  
 
Q.  Do you think a turning point was when you served in the second set, the double-faults?  Did that get on your mind and make you disappointed after that?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  You know, on that part of the game, it was real easy for me to win the match.  Two sets down for him, him playing not really good, and me playing great.  I think it was like for him to climb in the mountain, no, it was so difficult.  And then for me, watching that it was supposed to be two sets to love for me very easy, and for him climbing the mountain.  Then being one set all, it was the opposite, no?  I give him another life, a guy like him, playing with his home crowd, a big chance to come back into the chance so easy, because he didn't do anything.  Just like, I don't know, he didn't put unbelievable shots.  I was just missing.  Then he saw that I couldn't win the match, and he get it.  
 
Q.  Is it time to put to rest the crazy theory that the Spanish cannot play on hard courts?  Nadal, you, Moya.  Is it time to put that theory too rest?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  I think it's easier for us to win here than for Americans to win in Paris.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT