PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 26, 2005
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  What do you make of how the field is left; seems like so many of the seeded players have vanished.  What do you make of that? 
 
TOMMY ROBREDO: Who is left, what, in the draw?   
 
Q.  What do you make of it?   How does it look to you, the field, in general?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO: About the tournament, about what? 
 
Q.  Yeah,  the tournament, in general.
 
TOMMY ROBREDO: I think it's a nice way to have a tournament and also before a Grand Slam it is so close, I think it is really good to have a tournament here. 
 
Q.  You had five breakpoints late in that set there, how tough was it to not -- wanting to get that key break, five back-to-back games --
 
TOMMY ROBREDO: 11, it was. 
 
Q.  Two games you had five and in those two games you had 15-40 twice.
 
TOMMY ROBREDO: You feel so disappointed because in every game in the last set I had 15-40, then I have also advantage and then he had just one chance and he make it and he won the match.  I think sometimes it happens, it's hard, but we have to keep going like this and trying to win the break chances and then that match will be mine for sure. 
 
Q.  Was he hitting big serves?   Was he getting the points or were you kind of giving him some of those?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO: He was hitting so hard the serves on those chances always he was making serve and volley with a lot of fast serves.  It was tough, but sometimes after when you had 5-6 then you just want to put the ball inside and try to win the point.  That's when it's going up and going up and you don't know what to do. 
 
Q.  I saw you walk up to the net and kind of shake it a little bit.  Were you hoping to get the net to give you some points there?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO: No.  One breakpoint I just hit the net and it was a little bit of, it was not completely flat and I said to the umpire, that's let because it was like a mountain here, oh, sorry, a little bit of bad luck but it's all right. 
 
Q.  Did it work after you hit the net; did you get any better luck after that?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO: No, no one breakpoint convert. 
 
Q.  Take you a long time to shake this off or are you already finished with the loss and ready for next week?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, I am not happy tell you right now, but well, tennis is like this.  Sometimes you lose for something, sometimes you lose for nothing.  Today I lost because I had too many chances and I didn't get it.  Well, it is better to lose having chances than lose without having chances, but you had the chances and you lose it, you want to kill yourself. 
 
Q.  Who do you think is the favorite going forward here with who is left?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO: I don't know, for me this tournament is completely end.  
 
Q.  Thoughts about the Open, your draw, have you looked ahead that far to who you have to play in New York?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO: I don't know.  I just know I have to play qualifier first round.  I don't see much, just I wanted to keep focused in that tournament and now that I lost, I am going to see how to prepare as well as possible the last few days going to New York and that's what I am going to try to do. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT