PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 25, 2005
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  You had a pretty easy win today after going three sets the other day.  How did you feel out there today?

TOMMY ROBREDO: I felt really good.  I think that I did a great job today.  I played so good and I didn't get no problem on the court, Stefan, he couldn't do anything today because, I don't know, I did what I had to do, so good and no reason to lose the match. 

Q.  You have had maybe six or seven hard court matches now in the last couple of weeks.  Are you starting to get more comfortable now?   Do you think that's why you have played better?

TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, I don't think it's a thing of playing matches.  I always did a great good scores on hard court.  Semifinals last year in Dubai, Dubai, two times fourth round in US Open.  I think I am playing good on hard court.  It is just sometimes you don't win one match or another one and it's nothing of playing good or playing bad.  It a thing the other guy they also play good.  It's not easy.  If you see the draw here or US Open you say well, this guy can't arrive to the final but he can lose first round to this one and second round tough match.  It's tennis, it's very similar in that moment.  Federer and Roddick they are always winning everything and the rest it's like some day he can win, some day he can lose, no.  I think that arriving to the US Open winning matches it's so good, but even losing matches, if your feelings are great on the court you can win matches in US Open anyway.

Q.  Going from a few months of clay and grass does it take a little while to get comfortable again on the hard courts?

TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, I think that the Americans were the guys that are used to playing on hard court.  They get used to it a lot quicker, but quicker means maybe one week before but not one month before.  When we play the clay season if you see Roddick playing in clay season first week he's a little bit loose on the court.  If you see Gaudio or Ferrero first week they are perfect and if you see Roddick and second week you say, he's okay right now.  It's like this.  We get used to so quick to play on clay maybe we need one week to play on hard or grass.  It's just a matter of time.

Q.  Your potential opponents, how have you fared against them in the past?

TOMMY ROBREDO: Hanescu I never played him.  Massu, I think I did, but I don't remember so good.  I am not so good in those things.  I forget sometimes a lot of matches.  I think with Massu I played and if I don't remember it's maybe because I won, but I am not sure. 

Q.  You remember the matches you lose better than the matches you win?

TOMMY ROBREDO: For sure.  Normally the matches you win you don't have to learn so much and normally the matches you lost, you have to learn why you lost and what you have to improve to don't lose that match again.  Sometimes if you win you have to learn a lot, but even matches that I lost sometimes I mean I am not good for remembering matches.  I am good for remembering places even, if after five years without coming here I will know the way to come from the hotel to the club without looking at a map.  Things like this for me is so easy and to remember numbers or names or matches, I am completely disaster. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT