US OPEN
September 7, 2004
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  The record was not favorable for you tonight.  Obviously, you've played with Roddick before.  What was it, in your mind, something that you wanted to be different about the game you put on tonight? 
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think I tried to be a little bit more aggressive and tried to win a lot more points at the net.  I think I was doing it really great since he broke me, you know. And I think in the first two sets, the match was so close.  But the thing is, it's the second set, for example, that two breaks he did to me, it was one with 40-Love to me, one with advantage to my serve. Then my serve, the other games I was winning in love or in 15.  I think if I didn't make that mistakes, the match will be more or less -- well, could be close and rest on the tiebreak.  But if you make few mistakes like this, it's really difficult to play against him because it's really nearly impossible to break him here.  
 
Q.  You've developed your game and strategies, and you've become a better cement player.  What do you credit for that success on cement?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think I improve a lot on my serve.  Also I'm hitting the ball a little bit harder, no, than the last years. Well, that's what I'm going to try to do in the future, to try to improve more in these things, to try to win more matches.  
 
Q.  How do you feel about Roddick's chances at this tournament?  What do you see in his tennis that has changed also?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think he has a lot of chances to win here again, no, with his serve and right now he's playing great on the baseline also.  I think he have chances, no. But also, we don't have to forget Hewitt.  He's playing really good.  Agassi or Federer, no, I think they are great players.  They will give him a lot of work to do.  
 
Q.  Will you come back and play clay tournaments again and go through the whole motion of experiencing a new type of tennis you're showing right now?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think it's not the new type of tennis.  I think it's the same as last year but a little bit more, I don't know, little bit of changes. I am going to come to back to clay, if it's necessary for the Davis Cup, to try to win semifinals then to meet US in final, no, if they win.  Then I am not going to play any more tournament on clay because for a guy like me, who is trying to reach the Top 10, it's better to go to the indoor tournaments like Lyon, Vienna or tournaments like this.  
 
Q.  Is that what you're thinking, the Super 9 events, maybe win a couple of them, that's in your mind right now for the end of the year?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, in my mind right now, it's to play great on the last two Masters Series, try to arrive to the Top 10, and also in the indoor to get another fifth tournament, to get as much points possible to try to get my goal, no. But anyway I know it's gonna be difficult but, well, I am doing my best year and I am going to finish in the best position ever in my life.  Well, I just have to keep improving and keep working hard to try to do it.  
 
Q.  You look in great physical condition.  How do you feel about tomorrow's doubles match with Rafael?
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think if I get tired for the doubles, I have to retire. I think for singles guys like me or all the singles guys to play doubles, it's really easy, no.  You can play better or you can play worse.  But I think physical is not the problem.  Anyway, if I don't go to sleep, I think I will be ready to play tomorrow.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT