WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 5, 2004
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tommy. 


Q.  How did you think you played today? 

TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think it was a difficult match because Greg is a great server.  But, well, I was confident in my game, and I was really concentrated on the match.  And finally I could beat him, no?  I think it was a really great match, a really good victory that I hope is gonna give me a lot of confidence for the next match.

Q.  Looking ahead to Santoro, you have a pretty good record against him. 

TOMMY ROBREDO:  Yeah, the records are there, no, but every match is different.  And Santoro, he's gonna go for it for sure because he don't want to lose again with me.  And, well, I think I'm gonna be confident in my game because I know that my game makes him pain.  But anyway, it's gonna be a difficult match for sure. 

Q.  He seems kind of difficult.  There's slicing and spin that he puts on the ball. 

TOMMY ROBREDO:  I don't know.  I think he's a really talented player and he plays with this.  But also I play with a lot of things, no.  And I think that my things, they can make him a lot of pain.  That's what I want to try to do. 

Q.  Compared to your best level, where do you think you are at the moment? 

TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I think this year that I did a great job all the year and I am great level of the season.  But, you know, tennis, it's always a thing of confidence and not confidence.  And I was really confidence after French Open, and then grass always put you little bit different, no, because it's another surface.  And now I think I was playing, practicing pretty good.  And the score didn't arrive so much, but I was confident in my game and to win matches again, because I was feeling really good on the court.  I think I am, well, 90 percent maybe of my confidence and also playing my best tennis.  I think that I'm in good shape, and I hope to keep going like this. 

Q.  You like clay more than hard courts?

TOMMY ROBREDO:  Well, I win a lot of more matches on clay.  That is why I really like a lot more. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT