TMS - MADRID
October 15, 2003
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions in Spanish for Tommy.  
 
 
Q.  That tiebreak, it was very important, 7 tiebreak points? 
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  How many?  I only remember 3.  It was a pity because I double-faulted.  Luck played an important role.  I wanted more winners, which I wasn't able to do.  But it was a tough set.  It's very difficult to return the ball afterwards, especially if he's winning.  I had to give more of myself.  With my few errors, I lost.  But I think I played well throughout the match.  Lately I haven't played so well.  So now I feel I'm back to this level, I hope to stay at this level and win a few matches.  
 
Q.  Your goal, Paris?  What about Davis Cup now that Feliciano might be another choice?  What about you?  You were a semifinalist two years in Holland. 
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  Yes, I think I'm a player who has won more games on the grass, but the captains are the ones to decide.  They'll do what they find best for the team.  I'd love to be on the Davis Cup team.  But after Paris Bercy, we'll see and accept the decision.  
 
Q.  What type of changes could be introduced on the Spanish team? 
 
TOMMY ROBREDO:  If I were captain and had to play on clay, one type of team, and on another surface, another one.  I think changes are necessary.  But it's the same as football:  coaches choose players depending on the type of court they're playing on.  If these type of decisions were not to be made, it would be very easy; captains wouldn't have any role.  They're the ones to make decisions, see what's better for the team.  Victories come later.  It's up to the captains to choose.  We have to support them a hundred percent.  Sometimes decisions are easy; sometimes they're not.  But I guess any player is going to give his best, and everyone has to know what they're facing.  We're going to play in a country where we're probably going to lose.  It doesn't depend on the players that go and play.  For instance, Hewitt is playing well.  Philippoussis is a very good player.  If we take this into account, we might win, but we cannot take it for granted.  Players can only support captains, no matter which player goes to Australia.  It's the final, so it doesn't really matter whether we win or lose.  It's just nice to be there.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT