BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 16, 2011
Tommy Robredo
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







T. ROBREDO/S. Querrey
  6-1, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How do you feel you played out there today?
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, I think I was playing great. Sam, he was not having his best day because he wasn't putting a lot of first serves. And also when the point was going long, it was always for me, no? 
 I have to say that I planned the match perfectly, and I think I played a great match.

 Q. You got off to a quick start. How important was that?
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, always to lead a match with a great server like him pretty easy at the beginning with two double break, it's great, because then you know the first set is nearly yours and you can get focused on the second. 
 But anyway, with a player like him you have to be always focused, because at any time he can do great shots and broke you and then the match get tough again, no? 

 Q. It looks like you're probably going to play Del Potro in the next round. 
 TOMMY ROBREDO: He just won, yeah.

 Q. Can you talk a little bit about that match?
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Well, he's a great player, hits so hard all the time. He's coming strong again after last year we are playing, no? 
 But anyway, I'm going to try to play my best, as to today. From the beginning I was playing great, and let's see if I can start winning the match, and at the end I arrive to semifinals.

 Q. Do you think you'll be feeling 100% then?
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Hope so. I hope so. I have one entire day. That's the good thing of playing at 11:00 in the morning. It's harder because you have to get up early, but if you win, you have a lot of time to recover.

 Q. Did you hurt your leg?
 TOMMY ROBREDO: Yes.

 Q. What happened?
 TOMMY ROBREDO: I don't know. I'm gonna find out now, but I have been treating it for the last two weeks and it seems a lot better, but today at 2-All in the second I felt something there, and then it was very tough for me to play. 
 Luckily I could win. And now, as I say, I have one day to recover, and hopefully I can go through.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT