NCAA DIVISION I FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: TOWSON v NORTH DAKOTA STATE
December 27, 2013
Craig Bohl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Good afternoon, everyone.   Thank you for joining us for the 2014 NCAA Division I Football Championship Game teleconference featuring the two participating head coaches, Craig Bohl of NorthDakota State, and Rob Ambrose of Towson.   After an opening statement from each coach, we'll open for questions.   First up, Coach Bohl of the No. 1 and 14‑0 Bison of NorthDakota State. 
Coach, congratulations on a great season so far.   Can you give us your thoughts about playing in your third consecutive championship game? 
COACH BOHL:   You bet.   Well, certainly our football team is excited.   We've got a great deal of respect for Towson and the road they've traveled.   Our guys have been working hard, and we know that there's a great challenge around there and certainly appreciate the members of the committee for selecting the field.   It's just the playoff format is a great format, and we're excited that we're going to be returning to Frisco.

Q.   Update us on Ryan Smith and Grant Olson if you would as far as their injuries? 
COACH BOHL:   Both of them, Grant is practicing, and Ryan I would say is past 90%, so we anticipate he'll be full-go for the game.

Q.   What are the benefits of having been through this game before and all the surroundings down there? 
COACH BOHL:   Well, it's difficult to say, but certainly familiarity with the routine.   Athletes typically function better when they know what the routine is.   You always get concerned about complacency in the middle of that, but this group is a pretty senior‑laden football team and very hungry.   So everything from practice to lifting to the routine once we're down there that the administration has put into place has certainly been helpful.

Q.   Why do you think Zac Johnson has had his best year this year? 
COACH BOHL:   It's typically what happens with guys who have great competitors.   He's playing at a very high level.   The other thing about it is I think our football team, particularly our offense, is much more balanced this year and we're able to throw the ball down field and get two good running backs with a pretty senior offensive line giving him protection.   He's playing his best football, and then all those other guys around him are playing at a high level also.

Q.   Is there a difference with the two‑week time between games as opposed to three? 
COACH BOHL:   You know, slightly.   Last year we spread things out a little bit.   You know, this year we've not been able to do that as much.   Christmas falls into play and things of that nature.   So I think the clock turned up a little bit.   It's still not like one week to get ready for the game, unlike the past model that they've had.   So it's a little bit of a blend.   It's more like a bye week that we've addressed during the course of our season.

Q.   Just wanted to ask, how bittersweet is this knowing that after this game with this group and the success you've had that you're going to another job after this? 
COACH BOHL:   Well, this is certainly a unique group of student‑athletes that I've had the privilege to coach in the last 11 years.   What this group and our coaches have been able to do all along and particularly during this playoff stretch is be focused at the mission at hand.   This is about the 2013 season.   My opportunity to reflect on what the next chapter of coaching is has not come about.   Certainly I've accepted the job, but the great majority of the time spent in Fargo.   So I'm sure after the game, win or lose, I'll have some reflective moments.   But right now we're very focused on the task at hand and that is defeating Towson.

Q.   As far as this game, I know it's been in Frisco for several years and there are several more years on the contract, is that good to be going for the championship game to be in one place?   Do you like this format and the way it's set up? 
COACH BOHL:   As a coach I certainly do, and the fans as well.   I'd venture to say there is going to be a huge contingent of NorthDakota State people down there.   And a lot of it has to do with the hospitality that Team Frisco has provided the game‑day venue, along with everything from the amenities to the hotels to the restaurants.   It's a big‑ time environment.   The mayor has done a phenomenal job.   I think the best indicator that I know of keeping it at the same place is the number of people that will have been there for three years in a row, and our numbers just keep on climbing.   So that speaks for itself.   I think they're doing a great job.

Q.   How does your D match‑up with their offense so far from what you've seen on film? 
COACH BOHL:   Well, this offense, of course, you're going to play in the National Championship Game, you're not going to find hardly any weaknesses.   They're certainly that way.   We appreciate how they play and how they operate.   I mean, they're going to run the football.   They're very capable as far as throwing the football, and they have the elements of play‑action pass with a really strong, physical assignment, conscious offensive line.   So that is a great challenge. 
Their offense has a lot of similarities to our offense, not to say they're exactly alike, but they're probably more similar than anybody we've played all year.   So it's going to be a great contest.   We'll probably have a better feel of what's going on sometime in the second half.

Q.   Time of possession will be a huge key, I'm guessing? 
COACH BOHL:   We've done well in that area, but I know they have as well.   So it's interesting.   With all the different dynamics of football, what you're seeing is two football teams that believe in playing hard‑nosed, physical football.   They've got a solid running game.   They've still got elements of a two‑back game.   Much of College Football has not gone that way, but it's a statement that the two teams playing in FCS football have similar offenses.

Q.   Is there a different feeling, Coach, the third time around? 
COACH BOHL:   A little bit, but not much.   Certainly familiarity is important.   Our coaches and players and myself are very hungry.   It's unique to have an opportunity to be in this three times in a row.   But I can tell you this: each time you're here you just want to give it another time to return, so we're really excited.

Q.   I want to ask you about facing two quarterbacks and preparing for two quarterbacks, it's something you haven't had to do since maybe Kansas State.   Talk to me about only two weeks to do that and the preparation of facing that? 
COACH BOHL:   Well, first of all, you're facing a very formidable offense that's able to do a lot of different things.   So whoever is at quarterback, they're an excellent offense.   Obviously, any time you have two different guys in there, there are differences.   However, I would say the differences are not as drastic as what you may see other teams that have two quarterbacks.   I think both of these two guys are very, very capable. 
I know it was unfortunate for their starter to go down, but I understand nothing is broken, so he's going to have a shot to go out there and play and be a great challenge.

Q.   You've faced some great running backs before, where does Terrance west rank?   You're going to see him next Saturday? 
COACH BOHL:   He's at the top of the list, and his numbers bear that out.   You have a guy that's 220 pounds, has been productive all season long.   He's not a scatback.   He's a powerful runner.   He sees the field well, and their offensive line blocks well for them.   That will be the whole key for us.

Q.   Coach, what's it like having you guys in the same breath as Florida State, the two last unbeaten teams in Division I football? 
COACH BOHL:   I hadn't thought of that.   My son was a Florida State fan, and I knew those guys well.   (Indiscernible) really hadn't thought about it that much.   Just know we're in the championship game down in Frisco, and we're excited about it.

Q.   You were saying about the running back, west.   What do you guys have to do next Saturday to stop that guy?   It seems like everybody tries to put a lot of people in the box and try to jam him at the line, but it looks like he finds a way to get through the holes?
COACH BOHL:   That's typical of a good offensive line, but moreover a very capable running back.   Sometimes those strategies when you say you're going to stack the line of scrimmage up there, what you find is when a guy pops, he goes a long, long ways.   It's going to be important for us to be assignment conscious and playing disciplined.   That in itself will lend itself to more gang tackling and pursuit angles will be really critical. 
For us to say that we're just going to go in there and eliminate them, I think that's not realistic.   But we've got to be the best we can to try to contain them.

Q.   I know Towson's Rob Ambrose was 1‑10, and he was on the verge of being let go.   Did you have any time in your point in your career in Fargo that you might be on your way out?   What do you and Rob have in common? 
COACH BOHL:   First of all, I have a great deal of respect for Coach Ambrose because of how the program operates.   I've not met him but I look forward to doing that.   All of us coaches realize you're only as good as your last game.   We're aware of some challenges, and I'm sure we all get criticized.   I just basically say, hey, listen, I'm going to live in the present, coach in the present and coach for now, and that's what we've done.

Q.   What are the steps you've taken along the way to keep that pressure from mounting on that team?   Being an undefeated team and a team going for a national title three‑peat.   Obviously, you have a veteran group, but what are some of the steps you took along the way? 
COACH BOHL:   I think the biggest thing is just modelling consistency and making sure our guys recognize that there is nothing guaranteed.   The thing we can do is go out and play the very best we can and prepare the very best we can. 
By doing that, there's been a real sense of freedom that you've done everything you can going into the game as coaches and as players getting yourself ready to play, and the competition is what's enjoyable. 
Our guys have been in pressurized situations for several years and particularly this year.   We have a hungry, confident football team.   They're playing well.   I have not ever sensed them being up tight or worried about making mistakes.   They recognize they're not going to play perfect, but they're going to strive for perfection.

Q.   You've mentioned Terrance West here today.   Are there any similarities between Terrance and Zach Ziemer? 
COACH BOHL:   No, I don't think so.   Zach is‑‑ they're different style of runners, and first of all, Terrance is bigger.   We've been fortunate against center.   I think he got four yards rushing against us this year.   That was a day on kind of the sloppy grass field.   Terrance is an exceptional runner.   He's got excellent change of direction.   He's able to break tackles.   He's got good balance, great agility and great speed, all those things.   Typically lend themselves into a talented running back and that's what he is.   He's received national recognition that's well‑deserved.

Q.   With a 14‑0 record, 24‑game winning streak, do you feel there is pressure on this team to come away with a third? 
COACH BOHL:   Our guys set a goal at the beginning to win a third National Championship, and we knew it was going to be difficult.   We had Jerry Moore come and talk to our team.   He was the head coach at Appalachian State when they were able to accomplish that.   Coach Moore had some insightful words and set the stage. 
As far as pressure, I think athletes always internalize a lot of things and there is a great deal of pressure to excel.   But I've not seen in any game where guys are out there and they certainly don't look like me getting ready to tee off in a big golf tournament when there is a gallery of 300 people and I throw a duck hook out there.   Our guys haven't been that way.   They've been a marvelous group to coach and they've been practicing very well.

Q.   Is there a difference in the game plan when you're trying to prepare for a mobile quarterback like a Connor Frazier versus a pocket passer like Peter Athens? 
COACH BOHL:   I think both of them to say that they've both got good mobility and good throwing motion.   So there are certainly things that you adjust, but I think they're both excellent quarterbacks and we'll have to play well to defend them.

Q.   Have you watched the film of No. 13, Telvion Clark?   He's an outside linebacker for Towson.   I just wanted to get your impression of him? 
COACH BOHL:   Could you repeat the question? 

Q.   I wanted to know if you had an impression of No. 13? 
COACH BOHL:   He's an outstanding player without question, 13.

Q.   What makes him outstanding in your opinion? 
COACH BOHL:   Well, anybody that plays those backers, he can run really well.   He's an aggressive guy with great instincts.

Q.   Do you feel like next Saturday's game is going to be a senior game for you? 
COACH BOHL:   Not really.   We had a Senior Day here, and that was a very emotional time for me because just being a coach here all this time and had made a decision that this is my last year.   It was kind of like I said I'm a senior too. 
But what we've tried to do is make sure we parked those emotions.   Our guys recognize the most important thing is to go out and play and be very confident with the task at hand.   So to do that, emotions can really cause some havoc with that.   Our guys and coaches and myself really shied away from that.   We kind of had our emotional deal on Senior Day.   I hugged them all and cried when everyone of them went out there.   All of that is done.   Now it's about going on to the next game.   We've fared very well during playoffs, and we've got our final step here.

Q.   Knowing your players and what motivates them in preparing for this game, do you feel like a "win one or the Gipper" sort of attitude isn't going to bring them up to snuff when it goes for lining up for a National Championship Game? 
COACH BOHL:   No, I can tell you this:   There is a galvanized laser‑like focus.   This group has to go out and play well.   We know we've got a huge task in playing Towson State.   They're an excellent, well‑coached football team.   For us to have an opportunity to win, we'll have to play our best game and our guys recognize that.

Q.   Can you talk about quelling some of the distractions in terms of how you were announced as the new coach during the playoff run?   Was there a certain sit‑down, come‑to‑Jesus talk with your team that you had to have to put that on the side when you talk about having that laser‑like focus? 
COACH BOHL:   We addressed that very early.   I think it helped to have a pretty senior‑laden football team, guys recognize what the task was at hand.   They can conceptualize how we need to play and what the coaches assignments are and carrying out those assignments.   I guess the best thing I know in putting to rest distractions, I think we're playing the best football we've played all year right now.   That was even after I made this announcement.   So that's a real tribute to those players and our coaches. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT