AL DIVISION SERIES: TIGERS v YANKEES
October 5, 2011
Ivan Nova
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Ivan, it seems you've been pretty much unflappable all year. What is it about tomorrow that will allow you to be as unflappable and as calm as you've been? 
 IVAN NOVA: Tomorrow I got the most important game in my life. I think tomorrow is the time to do what I've been doing the whole year. Tomorrow is the time to step up for the team, because that's the game that we'll, you know, we keep in the playoffs or we go home. 

 Q. Ivan, how aggressive were the Tigers in Game 1, and how much of an adjustment do you expect them to make tomorrow? 
 IVAN NOVA: They were real aggressive. They don't have the chance -- they don't see me before. It was different. I know, like, they see me the other day they got another mindset. It's going to be a good day. I know more the hitters now, and I got late chance to make mistake. I'm waiting to see tomorrow how they come. 

 Q. Ivan, you went home early to watch the game. You went ahead of the team? 
 IVAN NOVA: No, no. I came with the team. I don't want to lose last night's game. 

 Q. So you stayed there in case you were needed? 
 IVAN NOVA: Yeah. 

 Q. Are you tired at all? 
 IVAN NOVA: No, no, no. I'm good. 

 Q. Ivan, a few times as you were coming up through the minor leagues the Yankees maybe didn't treat you like their top prospect. How does it feel now to have the season you had and now be pitching this very important game after all that? 
 IVAN NOVA: I really think this game is not about prospect. It's all about doing your job. I don't want worry too much about that, being top prospect. I work all the time to do my job. Thanks God and thanks what I did I'm in this position right now. 

 Q. Ivan, can you remember the last time you were nervous about anything? 
 IVAN NOVA: I told a couple of days ago, the first time when I get called up and the second time when Bautista come to me. After that, no. 

 Q. Ivan, do you have a pre-game routine? Do you eat the same meal? Can you sort of run through what you do on the days that you pitch? 
 IVAN NOVA: I don't really have something special to do. I eat what I feel that day what I want to eat, and the more important thing get to rest and that's what I do. I enjoy my family. I play with my kid before I come out, and be ready when I get here. 

 Q. Ivan, you've had a bit of of a roller-coaster season from coming into Spring Training, competing for a starting job, going down to the minors mid-season for a little bit. Are you at all surprised the way everything has turned out to find yourself pitching in an elimination game in the playoffs tomorrow? 
 IVAN NOVA: Maybe. I could be surprised. Right now that's the most important situation right now in this team. Came a long way to today. I'm happy with what happened. I got to enjoy tomorrow's game. 

 Q. Ivan, can you talk about Andy Pettitte's influence on you, please. 
 IVAN NOVA: He's a really good guy. I talked to him the day before I pitched my first playoff. He really helped me a lot. He's a tremendous person. That's the example that you got to take. Who got more success than him in the playoffs? I choose him like that's the guy that can help me in this process. He really do that the last game. 

 Q. How do you feel the weight of the moment being the guy who has the season in his hands for tomorrow night? 
 IVAN NOVA: Well, we got to wait till tomorrow to see how it feels. Right now I feel really good. We have to wait tomorrow and let's see what it's going to be tomorrow. 

 Q. Ivan, I'm just wondering how much influence has Larry Rothschild had on you since you came up, whether it's mechanics, mental, anything like that. We saw what he did with A.J. last night in settling him down. I'm wondering if there's anything like that he's done with you. 
 IVAN NOVA: He's a tremendous pitching coach. Since Spring Training he's been like a daddy for me. He helped me in Spring Training. He helped me throughout the season all the way. When you have a guy like that, like Larry, he knows a lot of things about this game, he's a guy with a lot of experience, you feel more comfortable. Sometimes you losing the game or you not feel good that day, he found a way to help you out, to keep fighting. 

 Q. Ivan, you said you talked to Andy before you pitched Game 1. Did he tell you anything about pitching in the playoffs? 
 IVAN NOVA: One thing he told me was if you got trouble in one inning, any inning, to get in mind one pitch can take you out of the game. One pitch can finish that inning, one pitch can take you out of the game. You have to try to execute that pitch. 

 Q. Ivan, you called this the most important game of your life. You said you're not nervous. Do you feel pressure? 
 IVAN NOVA: No. 

 Q. Why not? 
 IVAN NOVA: Because like I said, I don't see the reason to feel pressure. It's another game. Of course, it's the most important game of the season now, but that's the game that right now a lot of people is waiting for that game. From that game, everybody, like my family, everybody wants to see that game. Everybody want to see me do a really good job. 
 Like I always say, if you get nervous, you're going to be in trouble, because you can't control yourself. You can't control what you got to do. I don't see the reason why. 

 Q. Even in Spring Training you were completely convinced you were going to make the rotation, and you said that out loud, "I'm going to win my job." What made you believe so strongly? Where does that confidence come from? What made you believe? 
 IVAN NOVA: I got the chance. I know everybody that played this game in the Minor Leagues want to play in the Big Leagues. Not everybody had the chance to play in the Big Leagues. So I had the chance last year, and this year I had the chance to start in the rotation. So what you got to do is put all your focus, your energy and try to win your spot. Try to win. And I think that's why I won the spot. I was so confident the whole Spring Training. If you want to play in the Big Leagues, you have to be confident in yourself. You have to fight it, and I think that's what I did. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Ivan. We'll take a couple in Spanish. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT