TYCO/ADT CHAMPIONSHIP
November 16, 2001
Wendy Doolan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  Why are all these scores jumping low and then high? Was today any different than yesterday as far as conditions? 

WENDY DOOLAN:  I don't think it was any different.  There was a little different wind today which made some of the shots a little tougher into the greens.  But there was a lot of wind either way. 

Q.  I think 17 gave everybody trouble.  Can you talk about that?

WENDY DOOLAN:  I hit a bad shot off the tee and didn't get up and down.  I'd say that's it really.  That's what happened (laughter). 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

WENDY DOOLAN:  As I said, the wind was a little different today.  Made some of the shots into the greens a little different today.  It was hard to judge the wind. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

WENDY DOOLAN:  The difference in the wind today, I'll say it again, it was just like some of the shots that you had to hit into the greens, it affected the shots differently than what it did yesterday.  It was a little different angle wind.  Particular greens, it made it a harder shot into the greens.  That's probably why you saw some of the problems on 17.  If the green was down-grain, down-wind, it was a very quick putt.  Like on the right side of the hole on No.  15, I mean, that was extremely quick.  There were several other instances.  On the left side of 14 was really quick, down-grain, down-wind.  But the greens were great today.  They were rolling a little quicker today.  They were really nice. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

WENDY DOOLAN:  Really, I'm not going to do anything differently today to prepare for tomorrow than I've done to play for the last two months.  You know, every day's a new day.  You go out there, and all you can do is your best.  I gave a hundred percent today, so I'm very happy with myself. 

Q.  Having seen this course now after two rounds, do you think there's a (inaudible)? 

WENDY DOOLAN:  Actually, you know what, the two winds we've had the last two days were different to the winds we've had in the practice rounds.  Who knows what's going to happen tomorrow.  We'll just have to wake up in the morning to wait and see. 

Q.  (Inaudible)?

WENDY DOOLAN:  I have process goals for this week.  That's pretty much what I do every day to prepare.  I have achieved those. 

Q.  (Inaudible) compared to other stops on the tour? 

WENDY DOOLAN:  Yeah, I mean, these are a great closing three holes.  You've got to hit good shots.  You know, pretty much that's golf.  I mean, if you hit a good shot, you're rewarded for a good shot.  Just on the last three holes here, if you hit a bad shot, you don't get away with it.  That's the difference. 

Q.  (Inaudible)? 

WENDY DOOLAN:  I am going to my home in Australia for one month, then I'll be back in Florida in January to prepare for the season. 

Q.  Where in Florida do you live?

WENDY DOOLAN:  Lakeland.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

WENDY DOOLAN:  I'm going to see my family.

Q.  (Inaudible)?

WENDY DOOLAN:  I like to sit on the beach and take in some rays (laughter). 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT