MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2000
Wendy Doolan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







WENDY DOOLAN: Birdie on 14. That's where I started my run yesterday. Yeah, I hit a good
driver right down the middle of the fairway, 149 to the pin. Hit a little 7-iron to about
six feet. Then 15, good drive. Had a little bit more into the green, 165. Tried to hit a
6-iron and it was pin-high, about 50 feet left of pin. 17, that was another little
35-footer. Hit a 6-iron in; it was playing 153 yard to the hole, into the wind. That was
about 35 feet. Meg was helping me with that read, too. Then I made bogey on 2. That was
the first green of the day that I missed, left of the green. Had about a 25-foot putt. I
didn't make a good chip there. I wasn't real aggressive there. I came back with a birdie
on 3. Hit a little 6-iron there, 164 yards to about 18 feet. Then bogeyed on 8. I pulled
my shot, my approach shot, 7-wood. I had about 190 yards. Pulled it pin-high, left, right
up next to a tree stump. Made a really good chip shot to about 15 feet and didn't make the
putt. But I was happy with the chip. 

Q. Any other major saves along the way? 

WENDY DOOLAN: You know, I made a lot of 3- to 4-footers, 5-footers for par. Just real
solid with my putting this week. I worked with my coach last weekend, and we kind of
changed my putting routine around to give me more attuned with the distance of my putts. I
used to take my practice strokes six to eight feet behind the ball, looking down the line,
and Mike thought that my eyes were seeing, you know, six to eight feet further of what I
actually had to hit, so now we're back to what I would say would be conventional, taking
it right to the sight of the ball. It's helped me with pace, but it's also helped me come
in tune with my line. 

Q. Did you notice an immediate difference? 

WENDY DOOLAN: When the birdies started dropping. It's more trusting it than anything.
The first couple holes yesterday, I had to stop myself from taking my strokes from behind
the ball and just committing to the new routine. I had 26 putts yesterday. I didn't count
how many I had today. 30 putts today; so I think we'll stick with it. 

Q. You played well, obviously, and a lot of players are saying conditions are tougher
today. Did you feel that way, too? 

WENDY DOOLAN: I actually liked the conditions a little bit better this morning. The
greens, you know, we played on the greens that have been beat up pretty good after all the
players had played them yesterday, and the greens were pretty fresh this morning. But they
were fast. You can rest assured that the rough is still nice and healthy. 

Q. Greens were faster today than yesterday? 

WENDY DOOLAN: I think so. I consistently hit my putts about three feet by the hole
today. I definitely feel like they were quicker. 

Q. Which 69 was more solid, do you think, of the two rounds? 

WENDY DOOLAN: I would say as far as consistency, I was more consistent today, but I
tend to play the back nine a little bit stronger than the front nine, and I made five
birdies yesterday, four today. But all in all, the first 36 holes of this tournament have
been the most consistent that I've played since Dayton. 

Q. You played well in 1998; right? 

WENDY DOOLAN: Finished 4th. 

Q. Can you talk a little bit about that tournament? 

WENDY DOOLAN: I had some great pairings. I remember playing with Donna Andrews the
final round and she finished second. I tend to play better when I'm obviously enjoying
myself, but I enjoy the people that I play with. Meg and I kind of tend to feed off each
other. You can't control pairings, but they certainly make a difference. When I won my
first tournament in '97, I had great pairings all week, and that's something that you just
look forward to when you're playing with a good friend.

Q. Yesterday, all the veterans that came to the fore. Were some of you younger players
discussing that, about the elderly taking charge of the tournament? 

WENDY DOOLAN: I guess. I don't understand?

Q. Yesterday all the older players -- the veterans?

WENDY DOOLAN: You mean like Betsy King and Patty Sheehan? That lights our fire a little
bit. But the group ahead of us; Pat, Beth Daniel, Betsy King, had 100 victories between
them. They obviously know what they are doing out there. 

Q. How would you describe your year up to this point? 

WENDY DOOLAN: It's been inconsistent, which is what Mike and I are really trying to
focus in, figure out what we can change to eliminate big mistakes. You know, this is a
week where you can digest a bogey every now and then. But it's the big numbers that, you
know, kind of take you out of either contention or out of the tournament. So we've really
been trying to work on consistency and trusting what we're working on,
confidence-building, and knowing that you can have a -- kind of an imperfect day, ball
contact and swinging-wise, and still get to 1- or 2-under par. I'm still not quite where I
want to be with my ball-striking, but I'm making it work: And I think I look across the
board, Juli Inkster, Meg Mallon, the players that consistently play well, you watch their
rounds that they shoot under par; they don't hit it great every day. And that's what I'm
finally learning. That's one of their little secrets they don't share too often. 

Q. Are you a bit of a perfectionist then?

WENDY DOOLAN: I am. That's another thing that Mike and I are trying -- I would not
admit to that except for the fact that he told me that I am. That's another thing that
we're learning, that perfectionism doesn't win tournaments. Improvement and staying
positive does. 

Q. Everybody who has gotten to 3- or 4-under for the day today has seemed to drop back
a little bit. No one has been able to really break that barrier and go low. Do you think
that's going to be what it's going to take to win some time tomorrow or Sunday, going low
or just another grind-it-out, 3-under every day?

WENDY DOOLAN: I think there will need to be one more low round in there, or a low
round. But this course is probably the healthiest we've ever seen it, as far as rough. And
the greens are rolling very swiftly. So I think, you know, 2-, or 3-under par every day is
a pretty good score. But we've got enough depth and talent out here on Tour that there's
going to be somebody that throws a number up there. I saw Rosie Jones, I think she was on
her first nine, and she's a pretty hard chaser. There's definitely good talent to go low
this week. 

Q. As a perfectionist, how delighted can you be about two 69s? 

WENDY DOOLAN: I'm pleased because it's consistent; and I'm worked on being consistent,
not working on being a perfectionist, so ... right? I'm working on playing the game versus
playing golf swing. The smile will come out eventually. 

Q. Are you curious to see how you react to being in the hunt this weekend? Are you
pretty confident that you'll be able to control your emotions and all that? 

WENDY DOOLAN: You know, I've told my coach, I've told several people who have asked
what my secret is, and I feel more uncomfortable when I'm not in contention, and I don't
say that in an arrogant way. I push extra hard when I'm either trying to make the cut, or
trying to finish Top-30 or something. But when I'm there, I carry a little bit more
confidence, and this is what you work so hard to be in. And I enjoy it when I'm there,
definitely. 

Q. A lot of the players have been talking about how you can fake the ball around the
course here, clearly the type of place where everything is not going to go perfectly,
you've got to expect that even when you put it where you think it has to go it's not going
to always turn out the way it should. Is that difficult for you to handle? Is it something
that you would agree with? 

WENDY DOOLAN: Yeah. I mean, I do think that there is a lot of strategy to this course.
There is a lot of maneuvering of the ball on this course, which I like to do. There's a
lot of times that I hit 3-wood out here. 18, I don't have pull out driver. If we had a
40-mile-an-hour gust in our face, I might consider it. But there are definitely times I
will take an extra club into the green and hit 3-wood. Strategy is huge out here. You
know, you commit to a gameplan and you stick to it, and if you don't hit the ball where
you had planned to go, then you adjust. But definitely, strategy will pay dividends at the
end of the week.

Q. How affected are you by the shots that don't turn out the way that you planned them,
even when you hit them where they are supposed to go?

WENDY DOOLAN: Well, now that I'm not a perfectionist -- (laughter). I'm not nearly as
affected because, you know, there's a lot of funny bounces that we get with this game. And
I'm starting to learn that, you know, when a ball looks like it's working away from the
hole, it hits the side of a mound and goes right to the hole, I can't control that either.
You take the good bounces where they fall, and, you know, you just make the best of
whatever your situation is. 

Q. How is married life suiting you? 

WENDY DOOLAN: It's good. It's even better now that he travels again out here. He took a
year's sabbatical, went back to school. The poor guy, he's getting old, he's 33, and he
had some surgery done on his shoulder and a knee. And he's back out working for Jackie
Gallagher Smith; so I love traveling with him again. 

Q. Who works for you? 

WENDY DOOLAN: Billy Prentice. We've worked together just a couple weeks, and we're
having some fun out there. Bill is from the south. He's from Alabama, and he's as low-key
and easygoing as they come, so that's good. Very positive, though. Very encouraging. 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT