WEGMANS LPGA
June 9, 2000
Wendy Doolan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. We talked to Karrie Webb after her round. She said 7 was a ridiculous pin placement,
but you birdied the hole?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: I got lucky. I hit it left of the pin there. And I was just hoping to
keep it on the green, to be honest with you. That was an extraordinary pin placement, I
will say. It was a little bit tough there.  
 
Q. You feel real juiced up when you're able to birdie a hole like that? A difficult
hole anyway?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: It's always nice to make a long putt and gets a bit of adrenaline going,
wherever it is. Doesn't matter if it's a tough one or an easy one; making a long putt is
always good. 
 
Q. Did you have an eagle try on 8?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: 8, yeah. I was on the green in 2, and it was about 30 feet. I left it --
I nearly -- I didn't lip out, but it was close. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: On 7, I honestly was reading the putt. I knew that if I missed the hole
it was going to be about 8 feet below the hole. That was just realistic.  
 
Q. Putter was very hot then today, better than yesterday?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: No. I mean, I made some putts yesterday as well. It was pretty
consistent. I mean, I made, as I said, I made one long putt today. It's always nice. The
rest of them were realistic chances.  
 
Q. When's the last time you were a leader in the tournament going into Saturday?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: You know what? I can't even answer that. I don't remember. It's been a
while. I've been playing well the last couple of months. I may not have been in the lead
the last couple of months, but I've been right there quite a few weeks. 
 
Q. You play the golf course, right? And you don't look at the board?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: No, I don't look at the board. Not interested -- until Sunday, after
everybody's finished.  
 
Q. Do you like the feeling of being in front?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: Oh, yeah. I mean that's always nice. I'm out there doing my best. And I
can't control what anyone else is doing. If I give 100 percent of every shot, I'm very
happy. Very happy.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: You know what? I'm going to do the same thing as I do every day. Probably
go work out a little, eat dinner and, get a good night's sleep.  
 
Q. Planning on calling relatives in Australia? Would you call your relatives tonight?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: No, I don't a talk -- my brother's coming in to town tonight. He'll be in
America for two months, and he's going to be here tonight, which is nice. As far as my
parents and other brother, I usually talk to them on Mondays. Pretty regular -- Monday, no
matter what happens. 
 
Q. What's your brother's name?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: My brother Don is here this week, and I have another brother Andrew. 
 
Q. Here for business?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: Business. He works in Columbus. He's in insurance.  
 
Q. Does he come here often?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: He was based here for two years. He recently went home, but he's back for
a two-month stint.  
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: No. I'm just -- all I can do is pick my targets and do the best I can
over every shot and every putt. And at the end of the week, if I'm in front, great. If
I've done my best, even better.  
 
Q. A little background on, you know, getting into golf. Did you get in when you were
very young?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: I started playing when I was 15. I played a lot of amateur golf in
Australia representing New South Wales and also Australia. That's pretty much all she
wrote.  
 
Q. Do you like having your brother in town watching?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: It's always nice playing well when your family's in town. He seen me play
a lot of tournaments the last couple of years, and had a lot of good weeks when he's been
around. 
 
Q. (Inaudible.)
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: The last tournament he saw here was in Reading, Pennsylvania, I think.
Yeah, that was it. And then actually he saw me play the Australian Masters, that was in
February or March, whenever that is.  
 
Q. Is he driving?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: Yeah, it's from Columbus. I get to see my nephew. 
 
Q. What's his name?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: Blake. 
 
Q. How old is he?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: Born in December, so is that 6 months? Yeah. And my sister-in-law too.
But Blake's the all important, isn't he?  
 
Q. When did you see him?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: I was at the christening.  
 
Q. Have you been happy with your progress on the LPGA Tour? Do you feel like you're
coming into your own now, maybe gradually?
 
 WENDY DOOLAN: I'm really happy with the way things have been going. Every year poses
new problems and new ambition and new goals, and I feel like I'm moving forward. And I
just try and do better, everything I do. So if I keep improving, I'm happy. And I feel
like I've improved pretty much every year since I've been out here.  
 
End of FastScripts…. 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT