TOTO JAPAN CLASSIC
November 9, 2019
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you sum up your second round out here today?  
HANNAH GREEN: It was a little rusty on the front nine. Didn't hit many fairways really all day. Never really gave myself any opportunities for birdie close. Was, you know, leaving myself like putts where I needed to two-putt.   
But then the back end of the round I felt a lot more confident and I pushed myself to make sure I finished under par. It was nice to finish birdie, birdie today because I didn't do that yesterday.   
 Q.  Yeah. What was the biggest difference between yesterday and today's round?  
HANNAH GREEN: I think I just hit it a lot closer yesterday. Gave myself a lot more opportunities under the hole. Today I had a lot more downhill putts and a lot more 20-footers, which sometimes can be pretty tricky around here. I think that was the biggest difference. I feel like I hit the same amount of greens and stuff like that stat-wise.   
But, yeah, just not as close.   
 Q.  How was to playing with Ai Suzuki out there today? Quite a large following.  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, she did. She is really sweet. Doesn't really know too much English, but we chatted as much as we could. I think she was surprised at how young I was. When she told me her age I was like, Wow, you're only a few years older. Shouldn't be surprised.   
But, yeah, no, she's really sweet. Obviously had a great round today, so it was really nice to witness that.   
 Q.  And how much confidence does your finish, you know, birdie, birdie, give you going into the final round?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, definitely. Gets me a little later tee time. That's what I was hoping for this week with the chilly mornings.   
Yeah, nice to finish on a positive note, and felt really clutch with the putter on the last few holes. Yeah, hopefully can bring that in to tomorrow.   
 Q.  What's your strategy knowing this is a three-day event and you're going to be coming from behind tomorrow in the final round?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, it's different. I feel like I need a little bit more time, but wouldn't probably be saying that if I had the lead.   
Yeah, no, it's definitely different. I just got to stay aggressive. I mean, it is hard to be aggressive around this course. You got to pick and choose when you can pull the trigger and try and go for it. Hopefully I can give myself a bit more opportunity and hopefully have some better clubs in. Hoping tomorrow I'll have full, solid shots in.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT