CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 1, 2019
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CHRISTINA LANCE: Welcome to the media center. Our 20109 Cambia Portland Classic winner, Hannah Green. First, I have to joke, what is it with you and giant trophies? This is a large trophy. You also won the KPMG Women's PGA Championship with a very large trophy. What does it mean to you now to have two trophies in your possession, two wins?
HANNAH GREEN: Obviously it's huge. Like you said, it was rye legally big trophy. Did weigh a little bit less than KPMG Women's PGA Championship, which just arrived last week back in Perth, so that was really nice.
Yeah, I'm going to have to maybe dedicate a room to some trophies instead of just the hallway.
CHRISTINA LANCE: That's a very good problem to have. Let's go back to your putt on 18. You started the day a few strokes behind Yealimi. Battled back and tied her late in the round. Then when you were faced with, first, your chip, what was going through your mind and then per laps left it a little shorter than you were expecting?
HANNAH GREEN: I knew it was a quick putt and I really didn't want to leave it short. I wanted to give myself an uphill put or even a tap-in to put some pressure on Yealimi. I think I got a little bit scared after seeing her run her chip past the pin, and yeah, I was really kind of angry that I left it so short.
I heard some comments in the crowd and kind of had to shake it off. So I think it kind of almost -- when it went in. It just kind of reminded me of KPMG, holing a similar-length putt.
CHRISTINA LANCE: Were you able to rely on the KPMG experience or was it just focusing in at the time?
HANNAH GREEN: It's funny, I think yesterday I more nervous want I was today because I pretty much knew it was mine to lose, having a five-stroke lead. I was surprised with how different conditions were from Friday to Saturday, and I really struggled to adjust both with my approach shots in, and also putting.
Yeah, today it felt a lot different, and I think I can definitely say that KPMG, having that experience, definitely helped me, especially the last five holes. Grinding out and making sure that I stayed patient.
CHRISTINA LANCE: It's a very different result to last year, you came here for the first time and didn't make the weekend. Missed the cut. Fast-forward again and you've won. What is it about you as a golfer that has changed from that event from last year to this year? You just seem so calm and a veteran out there, and you're still fairly new to the tour.
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, I honestly don't know what it is. I felt really comfortable the first two days, even shooting my career-best score, and usually when I've got a run going like that, I think about, you know, what could possibly happen at the end of the round and I get too ahead of myself. I think what I did really well this week was just making sure I played every hole one at a time and every shot one at a time. I'm sure a lot of players say that but it's sometimes really hard to do.
But I think this confidence has definitely come from KPMG, and missing the cut last week, I had to work hard on my putting for this week because I know that's where that's where the money is this week. I think this is probably one of the shorter courses we play but not necessarily meaning it's one of the easiest. It's just, yeah, a birdie-fest I guess this week.
Just needed to be really confident with the putter and kinds o felt like I had similar stats to KPMG.
CHRISTINA LANCE: And to bring that up again, if I remember correctly, you missed the cut before KPMG, as well. You seem to learn a lot from a bad day, which is a good thing.
HANNAH GREEN: I guess I'm pretty good about not dwelling on past results, which is obviously really key in this type of job I guess. Yeah, I actually really enjoy Portland, as well. So pretty much not really thought about golf once I leave the golf course, which I think is really important, too.
CHRISTINA LANCE: When you were out there with Yealimi and she started the day, of course, several strokes ahead of you, it was really tight back and forth. To us watching on TV, it looked like match play. Was that kind of what it was coming down to out there; what you can do, I can do better?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, it was a bit like that. The third hole we both birdied and we weren't that close, either. That was kind of like when it was, you know, it's on.
Towards the stretch, Yealimi holed a couple really good putts and I was just barely missing. I knew I just needed to hang in there. I did look at the leaderboard and saw Britt was having a good round and creeping up close but it still was between us two.
When I finally saw the leaderboard, I think it was on 17 green, I knew we had obviously tied, but I knew that we had a little bit of leeway between Britt, as well. It did kind of feel like that. It's hard in those situations playing in a twosome to make it not like that because at the end of the day, you've just got to try and play golf and not focus about the other person. Yeah, it kind of was like that.
Q. So throughout the round, were you aware of what the scores were, or was it just when you happened to see a leaderboard?
HANNAH GREEN: Well, I obviously knew what -- I obviously knew what we were doing, but we didn't really have to wait too much today. We were actually pretty good pace, and so I didn't see what the others were doing until probably, I want to say, maybe the par 3, 13th, there was a leaderboard there, so I had a glance there. That's when I think she maybe had a three-shot lead at that time.
So I just, yeah, needed to not focus on what everyone was doing and just try and make some putts.
Q. How impressed were you with Yealimi's game out there? I mean, she's 18 years old, in a final group. What was would you say to her after what happened today?
HANNAH GREEN: I said to her, I don't know if she actually heard me -- I'm sure she was emotional. I said, "This is not the first time you're going to be in this position." I'm really impressed. This is my first time ever meeting and playing with her. To go out with her -- she didn't play that great towards the ends but still to have the result she had -- I know she played well at Thornberry and she'll be out here next year probably in the same position. Unfortunately I guess there's always some failure to then have success, but I'm sure hers will come soon.
Q. She makes birdie on 14 and it's back to three-shot difference. What are you thinking at that point? Worked the whole day and back to square one.
HANNAH GREEN: It was difficult. I guess that's when you really need to hang in there. I was just really happy that I was hitting fairways and greens, like giving myself some opportunities. You know, I guess probably the difference to yesterday is I had my pace a little bit better so I could actually see lines a lot easier and you know kind of get it closer to the hole.
I had some bad strokes out there and completely missed the hole, but when I was holing putts, you know, they are in the middle, so I was really happy about that. It was a shame for things -- I mean, I did birdie some holes coming in but Yealimi did bogey.
So I guess I had that kind of go my way. But yeah, it's a difficult stretch, especially with it being so firm this afternoon. I thought I hit a good shot into the last and it was over the back, so it's tough.
Q. Your putt on 17 was -- I mean, you must have been really going for that one, all-or-nothing and you needed that. You really went for it.
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, definitely. A couple of the downhill putts I've had this weekend, I've left short in the heart. So I wanted to make sure that if it was missing, that I was having an uphill putt for my next. I felt like I was reading greens really well all day but towards the end, I wasn't sure if I was over-reading them, so I had my caddie -- I told him what point I was looking at, and I asked whether, what his opinion was and whether he thinks it was too much or too less, and I think just hearing that confirmation to say, yeah, that's the right line, is just what I needed. Especially on the putt on 17 with it being downhill and obviously a right-to-left putt.
Q. You shoot 67 today, that's a pretty good score?
HANNAH GREEN: I didn't actually realize just because I was looking -- I actually kind of forgot what my overnight score was. I was just seeing what the gap was between Yealimi and myself. Yeah, to shoot 5-under to close out, I'm really happy with.
Q. Often the key to success is enjoying yourself off the course, and a lot of people have been saying they have had a lot of fun in Portland this week. What have you been doing outside of Columbia Golf Club?
HANNAH GREEN: I've actually been eating out quite a lot. Every night so far, I've had Asian food, which I love, and then also there's a cafe like ten minutes from here, Proud Mary, run by some Australians, so just something really close to home. I am going back home tomorrow, so it's probably a good time for me to, you know, go back.
But I just really enjoy Portland. I think the people are really relaxed, and I feel like it's probably a close -- like a city that resembles Perth, where I live. That's why I was so gutted last year that I wasn't able to play the weekend because I was spending, I guess, my whole entire weekend was just eating a lot of food.
This week, I think I went to Proud Mary's five or six times and I think I'll probably go there tomorrow.
CHRISTINA LANCE: Congratulations. Enjoy this giant trophy.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT