CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 31, 2019
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Sitting in second place at 16-under par. The scores today across the board were way up. What played so differently on the course today versus the first two days?
HANNAH GREEN: I don't know what it was like in the morning but this afternoon it was a lot firmer than it was yesterday. The greens were a lot quicker, I think a lot quicker than the practice green and maybe that threw a few people off. It certainly surprised me once I got out there, and I still found it really difficult, even towards the end of the round, to get the pace correct.
But the pins, I didn't find too difficult. You could easily be on the wrong side of the pin, but I think just with it becoming a bit firmer and a little bit of wind made a huge difference today.
Q. How difficult is it to adjust to the change in pace on the greens?
HANNAH GREEN: It's hard, especially when you want to hole putts. Obviously you have to change your line and change up your stroke length to compensate for the greens being quicker.
Like I said before, it took me a long time to adjust to the greens, so I'm hoping this afternoon I can do a little bit more putting because I felt like I really didn't hit it that bad. Just towards the end, was hitting on to the green but not keeping it on there. So feel like if I can hit a few more closer and actually capitalize, then I'll be right up at the top of the leaderboard.
Q. Today may have been the day you were not looking for, but three off the lead heading into the final round; that a position you would have taken at the start of the week?
HANNAH GREEN: Absolutely. I know Yealimi, she played extremely well today. But it's just one of those courses, you never know what's going to happen and I think tomorrow will probably be similar conditions to what we had this afternoon. I've just got to stay patient. It's really frustrating and I probably showed my emotions out on the course today, but I guess when you're just so in the moment and in contention, it's hard not to be.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT