CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
August 30, 2019
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 9-under in round two, but didn't putt quite as well, 27 putts today. Is everything just in the zone right now?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, definitely. I mean, my ball-striking was a lot better today. That's probably why I had a couple more putts than yesterday, but really pleased to back up obviously a solid round yesterday with another one today. Felt like I gave myself a lot of opportunities over the last two days, so I'm really happy that I was able to capitalize on them all.
Q. The best personal score of your life; confidence has to be an all-time high right now. How do you carry that confidence into the weekend?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, I just don't want to get too ahead of myself. Obviously this is quite new to me, shooting such low scores back-to-back. I want to make sure I continue to do the same things and don't get too disappointed if I don't back it up with another solid round. Going to keep the same game plan. Doing everything much like I have. Obviously I've had some success with that, so just want to make sure that, yeah, I just post another low number tomorrow.
Q. A lot of people would assume that your win at the KPMG Women's PGA Championship made you a different player. Did it make you a different player in your mind in terms of confidence and expectations?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, definitely. I feel like I have more expectation on my now from outsiders, as well as from myself. But I think it's also really a motivating thing to have ticked off a major championship so now I guess the monkey is off the back, I can and play more aggressive and some more experience for other events and other times that I'm in contention. I'm just happy to be in this type of position and hopefully I can look back on KPMG to have the same kind of result this week.
Q. 17-under par for the tournament, nine-under, your new LPGA career record and you matched your career record from yesterday in 11 holes. When did you realize today was going to be a special round?
HANNAH GREEN: Well, I actually missed a short putt on 2 for birdie, but I just gave myself really good opportunities all day. I think when I had the eagle on 5, that's when I was like, okay, I think I can go low again today. So really happy that I continued to keep the ball in play and give myself lots of opportunities, and even today capitalize on those shots that I hit close.
Q. What clicked with the eagle on 5?
HANNAH GREEN: So I had like a 30-foot putt, so I wasn't really thinking about holing it too much. Just wanted to make sure I kept -- if I did miss, then I gave myself a tap-in. Was kind of on a ridge where I could hit it three or four foot past, and so I wanted to make sure it was at least in good pace. Had the flagstick in and it just knocked in, so I was really happy with that.
Yeah, just played really solid from there on. Didn't want to get too ahead of myself. Obviously I think -- I don't know when I reached 8-under, but in my own career, it's my personal best. So I didn't want to get too ahead of myself and I feel like the stretch coming in is quite tight, so I wanted to make sure that I was hitting fairways, hitting greens and hopefully making a couple putts.
Q. What did you tell yourself to try and stay in the moment there?
HANNAH GREEN: I think I was really relaxed, surprisingly. It definitely, like now that I'm talking with everyone, I don't really feel like I've shot 9-under. I feel like I've maybe shot 5 or 6, which is nice. Means I'm probably not too nervous, but I don't know, just feeling really confident I guess.
Q. What do you think your best birdie was today?
HANNAH GREEN: Well, I mean, I guess I have to highlight the eagle on 5.
Q. You made a 30-foot putt?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, I did. That was probably the longest putt I've made the last two days. So it was nice to see that one rolled in. But I just had a lot of breaking putts today, which I didn't yesterday, and I was just really happy that I read them well, and if I did miss them, they were really close to going in. I definitely want to say the birdie on 17 was just as good as the eagle on 5.
Q. Where were you on 17?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, so I was in the right rough, kind of had an overhanging branch in my way. Just wanted to land something short of the green and hit it on and with that pin position, it's quite a slopey, tricky little putt to hole. So when I saw it go in it, I was really happy because it's one that can easily get way from you. It wasn't one where you could ram it up into the back of the hole. You had to be a little bit precise with your pace, so yeah, I was just really happy to see that go in, and close on the last hole to possibly get 10-under.
Q. Looked like you were really going for that one?
HANNAH GREEN: I was aggressive yesterday with my putt to shoot 8-under on the last, so I wanted to make sure, to possibly shoot 10-under, I didn't want to leave it short.
Yeah, I'm just really happy that I gave myself an opportunity like that as well.
Q. How long was the putt on 18?
HANNAH GREEN: Probably 15 feet.
Q. Were you aware of the course record and where you stood?
HANNAH GREEN: I knew where I stood because I had seen leaderboards, but I didn't know what the course record is. I just wanted to personally get into double digits, something that I was striving for so that I wasn't like too scared and still play aggressive.
Q. Really similar to yesterday or what were the differences?
HANNAH GREEN: I hit more greens today and I think I hit more fairways, as well. So just a bit more consistent overall. Don't feel like I hit it like necessarily closer than I did yesterday, but I feel like I was just -- yeah, just really solid overall.
Q. Were you just playing by feel, autopilot?
HANNAH GREEN: It is a little bit like that. I've always got my projects on my swing, but just making sure that I'm fully committed to hit the shot. Nate and I, my caddie, have done a really good job picking clubs this week, because they do take one big bounce and then check-up eventually. Just making sure when you are in-between clubs, making sure you analyze which is the better miss, to be short or long, left or right.
Q. I heard that you changed your putting style since KPMG. Tell us about that. Why?
HANNAH GREEN: It's funny, I was actually wanting to do it the week before KPMG, so I figure before a major is not the best time, and I was going to have three weeks off after the event. Didn't do anything about it that week.
Growing up, I used to putt conventionally and about three years ago, I went to left-hand-low. At the time it was better for me just to get wrist action out of it, but I actually feel a lot more solid than I do left-hand-low. It's just more of a feel thing. I mean, I don't know if my coach was happy about it. He did ask me whether, you know, whether I really needed to do it, but I think just for a pure confidence thing, that's what I wanted to do. I started in Scotland, which was probably a difficult event to try and do it, considering the greens are a little slower and a little bumpier, but felt really solid last week, as well, and the stats showed that I was pretty consistent inside six feet, which is obviously really key out here.
Yeah, this week, I'll rolling it well and reading the putts well.
Q. So you were left-hand-low at Evian and AIG, and then started in Scotland?
HANNAH GREEN: Yes.
Q. 36-hole record here?
HANNAH GREEN: Oh, really? Cool. That's nice.
Q. You don't win anything for that, I guess, but it's still pretty nice.
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, definitely. It's funny, speaking to you yesterday, I said probably high teens, but maybe might be a little different come Sunday.
Q. You got such a great score, and you look at that leaderboard, what do you think? So much red and big numbers.
HANNAH GREEN: I mean, it's definitely a course where it's easy to make mistakes. So I want to make sure that I try and keep my lead as much as I can. Obviously it's kind of hard to change what other people are doing, so I just want to make sure that, one, I don't get too focused on that, but also just keep really solid with my game plan.
Q. How have things, or have things changed for you, since winning the KPMG Women's PGA Championship?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, it was big going back home and going to my home club and seeing all the members and seeing all my friends. I guess when I first got home, it didn't really sink in. It probably sunk in more what I got to Evian and was able to see everyone, since I didn't play Arkansas.
Yeah, definitely, things have changed. Definitely more noticed, probably more acknowledged by fellow players out here, so it's really nice, and I guess I'm still probably on a high from the win. A couple of my friends have been, oh, "Major Champ." I'm like, that sounds weird, it not just "Champ." It's "Major Champ." I think I'm probably still on a high, yeah.
Q. Who were your idols, male or female, I guess?
HANNAH GREEN: Well, I guess my idol was Karrie. I think she's probably most Australians' idol, but I didn't really have an idol when I first started playing. It was probably more my dad because I really wanted to beat him, which every child does. He's like a 13-handicap I think, so he's not too bad.
But then once I started traveling over to the U.S. and around Australia, that's when I was like, oh, I think I could make this a living, or, you know, wanted to at least see what the experience was like, and that's probably when I started having Karrie as an idol, which is a little bit later. It wasn't like I saw Karrie playing on TV and that's why I wanted to play golf. It was more later.
Q. Anything about her swing or her personality?
HANNAH GREEN: Obviously she's got a really good record. Won a lot of events. Hall of Fame member. Things like that. But once personally getting to know her, she's obviously a really good friend now. I was in her Karrie Webb Scholarship for a couple years, I think it's been three years now, and we're still really good friends and she's still willing to lend a hand if she needs or if I need. It's just really rare to have a relationship with someone, like her, like that.
Q. And it's been that way for a while. I was looking back through my notes, I used to work for the USGA and the Women's Am when it was here at Portland --
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, she came and watched.
Q. I remember sitting up in the media center going, "That's Karrie Webb!" So it's been a while that she's been paying attention to you.
HANNAH GREEN: She's awesome, and I think everyone that's been on the scholarship that still currently plays on Tour would say that they get the same treatment. It's not like now that I won a tournament, oh, I recognize her. She's always been that way right from the get-go. It's cool for someone like that to give her time to us up-and-coming players.
Q. Any big plans for Portland tonight?
HANNAH GREEN: No, probably some ice cream. No, not a whole lot. Probably just take a relaxing afternoon. Maybe go downtown.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT