KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2019
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're here with Hannah Green again, currently has a four stroke lead at -7.  Her 137 is tied for the second lowest 36 hole score for her LPGA Tour career.   
Great two rounds, Hannah.  You opened with a bogey at No. 1 but then birdies at 2, 6, 8 and 14.  We'll get to those birdies.  But I want to talk about that par save on 12.  Tell me about that, found water off the tee but then you made good.   
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah.  I actually found water on my second shot, yes.  I actually didn't even notice the hazard yesterday or in the practice round.  I don't know what I was doing on that hole.  But I knew there was a chance of it going into the hazard but I was pretty disciplined and obviously it went in there said to my caddy I need to get it close as possible.   
It's still quite a tough pitch shot.  When it went in I just laughed because I guess with the hole-out on 7 yesterday and with the hole-out today, it's really going my way.  Really nice to have that goal and obviously to keep it clean after the bogey on 1.  So, yeah, just nice to at least be getting some luck on the course.   
THE MODERATOR: If you could tell us about those birdies.  You started with one on No. 2 on your second hole to follow-up from that bogey.   
HANNAH GREEN: I had a pretty easy putt.  I think I probably left it in the best position to at least be able to access that pin.   
I had about a 12-foot putt straight uphill.  That's always nice to roll one in early.  And then hit a good shot on to I think it was 6.  Nice uphill putt again.  I found today the difference was I kind of left myself in worse positions on the greens.  Even though I still hit it close, I left myself with putts that had a lot of break which obviously are harder to hole.  I think that was probably the difference to yesterday when I was on the green I had uphill putts with not very much break.   
Yeah, I think I stayed patient out there.  I had the opportunity to make a birdie on 15 and missed it but still made a great up and down on 16.  So, things were up and down.   
THE MODERATOR: We'll open it up for questions.   
 Q.  Pants today and layers.  Are you better prepared or over-dressed?  
HANNAH GREEN: Probably both.  I knew it was going fob a little bit chilly this morning.  I spoke to one of the players that was in my house.  She said it was cold.   
Pretty much after yesterday's rain I was going to wear pants but had plenty of towels, had everything that I needed if there was to be rain which I thought was on the forecast and I thought that was going to hit with 6 holes to play.  So, I'm just glad that we had a dryer round.   
 Q.  I'm really sorry to dumb this down, but what club did you hit on 2 and on 8?  
HANNAH GREEN: On 2 I hit 8-iron in and then on 8 I hit 8-iron as well.  Both 8 irons.   
 Q.  Then on 12, where was the pin, what kind of room did you have to work with, was it an heroic shot, if it wasn't, can you make it sound like it?  
HANNAH GREEN: The pin was back left and this little, I guess that section, flat section of the green.  If I landed it too far there was a possibility of it going over the back.  I didn't want to leave myself with another chip to then possibly make bogey or double at worse.   
I had to land it perfectly and I guess I did.  I knew it was going to be close but I didn't think it had the chance of going in.  I really wasn't really watching it going into the hole.  I just heard the crowd roar.  I just -- it was really fun to hole that.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
HANNAH GREEN: Well, I had to drop it in the rough, obviously, and I didn't do a very good drop.  Kind of nestled down a little bit.  So I had to try and hit as high as I possibly could but then also be able to control where it landed and I made good contact and I knew I pitched it well enough but I guess it did run out enough.   
 Q.  Two questions.  First on 16, what did you see as your strategy on your second shot, and when you saw where the ball ended up, what were you thinking over that third shot?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah.  So where I was, the angle that I had, if I were to aim at the right side of the grandstand I knew that I could possibly feed it down towards the front of the green.  As soon as I hit the shot it went like maybe five meters further right than what I wanted and I actually had -- my caddy and I both had no idea that it was that -- it could kick so far right and even feed into the hazard.   
Both of us were pretty stunned at that.  I guess I got lucky it didn't go into the thicker weeds.  Even the lie that I had in the hazard was still pretty sketchy, wasn't sitting up really nicely, actually in between a big tuft.   
I made up and do from there.  I had a good par save.  I can't really complain.  Definitely really wasn't how I imagined it to react once it hit the ground.   
 Q.  What do you learn about yourself as a player these first two days, make all these escapes in a Major Championship like this?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah.  I mean even when you play this type of golf and just a regular event you're pretty proud of yourself, but this week especially, I've never put myself in this position in any event so to be doing it this week at such a great venue definitely shows things are going the right way.   
I have had some luck going my way.  I do hope that continues.  This will be a big factor this weekend.  I got to keep doing what I'm doing.  I feel like I'm hitting the ball better to be more consistent this weekend.   
 Q.  Besides Su and Karrie, who are the other players in your house?  
HANNAH GREEN: Just us players and then my boyfriend is over, the two scholarship holders and Stacey Keathing from Golf Australia.   
 Q.  What did Karrie have to say last night?  
HANNAH GREEN: I guess she was pretty upset with how she played.  She was still very happy with how I did.  We didn't really talk too much about golf once we got home.  Kind of what I'd rather prefer.   
I know like -- this is not my first time in this position in this Major but I didn't really want to bring too much attention to it until maybe at the end of the week that I am in this position again.  So, yeah, I think she kind of knows that I'd rather just talk about anything besides golf.   
 Q.  What role has that scholarship and that relationship played in your career?  
HANNAH GREEN: It's huge.  When I first turned pro and played on Symetra, I was fortunate enough to win three times.  The first win I had was early in the season.  She was the first person that texted me to say congratulations.  I know she's in the same time zone as my parents.  I think the time zone back then was 12 hours.   
Still to have someone text you and say congratulations it's pretty cool.  When even the good result in Australia, I always have messages from her.  Even if we don't talk a lot about that, she's always happy to congratulate anyone and I mean I've stayed with her multiple times now, now that I'm a professional and not under that scholarship.   
It's really nice to be thought of she wants to like help me out and hang out for the week and I guess all the scholarship holders feel that way, all of us feel that we can reach out and message or call her, whenever we need help.   
 Q.  What did you learn most about Lancaster?  
HANNAH GREEN: That was my first time seeing Karrie play in-person.  I have seen her play on TV multiple times.  You never see what the shots are like in-person, especially that week there was a lot of long holes, just seeing her, how well -- how good she hits it.   
I think that's what she was pretty much known for in her career.  Just how you see that in-person and for her to be in contention in the U.S. Open, that was even more amazing to see all the crowds and see how she handles herself.   
She never -- I don't know what it's like for other players.  I probably didn't even ask enough questions at the time but I was more of an observer and seeing how she handles herself is probably more beneficial for me.   
 Q.  I don't know why -- what year you got really psyched up about golf but I can't imagine you were watching much on TV of Karrie when she was winning Major upon Major.  
 What is your first recollection of her and how would you describe like how well-known she is in Australia for what she's done even for people who might not have seen her in her complete prime on television?   
HANNAH GREEN: She was in the prime in the early 2000s.  I wasn't even playing golf then.  Didn't even cross my mind to watch golf on TV.  I missed -- obviously you see the replays now and everyone knows about her shot at Dinah and all of her, I guess victories that she's had.   
I never really used to watch golf.  Even when I was about 15, 16 is when I actually thought okay, I can possibly make this a living and that's when I started to watch golf.  So when I first started playing I guess I looked up to my mom and dad and as soon as I had the chance to come to U.S. Open that's when Karrie was my idle.   
I feel like all other Australian golfers have her as an idol.  She had Greg Norman as her idol and had a similar scholarship.  She's done that for us.  I'm really grateful that she's given so much to so many people.   
THE MODERATOR: Further all right.  One more then we'll wrap up.   
 Q.  I know you had a long night yesterday.  Did you sleep well or do you think -- how do you deal with the lead, usually?  
HANNAH GREEN: I actually slept really well.  I was actually really tired once I got home, which is good.  Had really good Thai food and had a nice hot shower.  Fortunately enough I guess having the lead overnight didn't affect me too much when I was sleeping.  I probably didn't get as much sleep as I would have liked with the early start but I slept really well.   
 Q.  You talked a couple times about 15 or 16 is when you thought this might be an option for you.  If it wasn't, what was option B?  
HANNAH GREEN: Some reason I wanted to be an architect when I was younger.  I was really into that but now that I see some of my friends, know people that are currently studying, I don't think that's for me anymore.   
I'm kind of happy with how -- I mean I'm an only child.  I've got really supportive parents.  It would have been hard for them to see me maybe go this avenue but I think it's paying off now.   
 Q.  What other sports did you play as a kid, if any?  
HANNAH GREEN: I was in competitive swimming and tennis.  I always played individual sports.  Golf just fit me as well.   
THE MODERATOR: Great round.  We'll see you tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT