HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 26, 2019
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A little bit of difference from yesterday.  What were you feeling out there overall?  
HANNAH GREEN: Actually felt really solid for most of my round.  Obviously when I made the bogey I made a really simple mistake which I knew I shouldn't have.   
And then on 17, the par-4, I just hit a really bad shot and got into the water.  Couldn't really get myself out of jail, but definitely did not have the putter rolling as much as I would've liked.   
Had a couple three-putts, so that was pretty disappointing.  I am actually going to go and do some practice now.  I know the greens are a little bumpier in the afternoon, but I still doesn't strike it as well as I would've liked.   
I know I'm still in good position.  Pretty disappointed in the round, but, yeah, hopefully this weekend I can be a bit more consistent and make less mistakes.   
 Q.  This is definitely one of those afternoon is a little tougher than the morning.  So with the change in the tee time there, how, for even tomorrow and Sunday as well, how is your mind going to adjust?  What are you going to work on?  I know you just said the putting, but what else comes to mind?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, it's hard.  It's hard.  It's definitely more mental I feel when you play in the afternoon.  You kind of also have to get lucky with a couple putts to hope they maybe roll in or bounce offline into the hole.   
So I just have to stay patient.  Even if I was in the morning I would still have to stay patient, and I think especially in the afternoon when they're maybe not rolling as purely as you would've liked.   
 Q.  I see you also have some friends with you cheering you on.  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah.   
 Q.  Does that give you a little confidence when you're able to feel and see them out there?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, it was nice.  I actually caught up with a couple Trojans and a Bruin last night for Korean barbecue.  I haven't seen those girls in a long time, so it's nice to be in L.A. where there is good food, but also nice to see some familiar faces.   
I think that really makes a big difference.  Even staying with my host family, people that I know.  Yeah, it was nice to catch up with them and nice for them to come out and watch me.  Didn't really show them too much good golf, but, yeah, no, it was still really nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT