HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 25, 2019
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All right, so outstanding run out there.  Actually your career lowest ending with a 65.  How were you feeling out there, and what was the spark for you?
HANNAH GREEN: So I hit the ball pretty well.  I hit 15 greens today, which I think is pretty solid around this course.  On the 1st hole I had a tough par putt, six-footer kind of sliding right to left; made that putt.
Managed to make a lot more in the rest of my round, but I really think that was set the tone for the rest of the day.  I feel like if I missed that maybe I wouldn't have had the same mindset going into the rest of the round, even though it's only the 1st hole.
My ball striking was great, but also my putter was really hot.  I was really happy with how I rolled it.  Can't really say that I hit putts where I was really disappointed in that streak, so I feel like everything is slowly getting together.  I guess today it showed.
Q. Last year your first time here you didn't make the cut.  Was that on your mind today teeing off?
HANNAH GREEN: No, it wasn't, which is nice.  I actually have a great host family, and I stayed with them the week before Hawaii.  Managed to play 18 holes and nine holes on one of the days, so kind of had a nice little warmup the tournament, and then obviously just normal prep on a tournament week.
So that was nice, to come back.  I think just not being a rookie anymore is nice.  I'm sure all of us would've said that too, maybe besides Rookie of the Year.  Yeah, it's just nice to come back to somewhere familiar and kind of know --  even though it's not always easy to do, just to know where to not mishit it stuff like that.  I think that's what makes the difference in making a birdie or making a par.
Q. Do you have a little bit more confidence now that you've surpassed the rookie year?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, I think so.  I think it's kind of just like taken off the shoulders.  Not that it was ever a burden.  It was really a lot of fun and I'm glad that I'm out here, but it definitely is just nice to have more experience for this year.
Q. Can you talk about that a little more specifically, some of the sights, places you've been, and the second time around what was it that just made you more comfortable and you suddenly weren't looking at something for the first time?
HANNAH GREEN: I think it's just nice to go to a golf course and have -- even though I wasn't -- like when I get to the course I'm not really good at remembering holes until I get there, so it's just nice to be able to be like, Okay, yeah, I hit 3-wood off this tee last year.  When the tee was moved up, maybe I went for it.  Just little things like that.  I think it's nice.
I'm playing a lot less practice rounds this year because I feel like I already know what the course is like.  Last year I felt like I needed to play 18 holes every day just so I knew all the little quirky spots about the greens, where to hit it and where to miss my shots.
So definitely well rested compared to last year.  Yeah, just a lot more happy off the golf course.
Q. What about off the course where you're coming to a new city for a first time and stuff.
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah.
Q. Is that something that makes a difference?
HANNAH GREEN: Yes.  Sometimes it's really cool to go to a new city because there is a little bit more excitement.  I feel like maybe if you return to the same place years after years you might get a little bored.
With a place like L.A. I really like it.  There are so many things you can do and I will probably never even do all of them.  I've got a really good host family and my best friend on tour is staying there as well.  I've just got really good vibes when I leave the golf course.
I've actually decided to go back to Australia every six, seven weeks, and I think that will be the big difference compared to last year.  I was over here four months and just really didn't enjoy myself off the course, and that was infecting the stuff on the course.
Q. You started very well last week in Hawaii and then things changed.
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah.
Q. What do you have to do now to extend that level of play?
HANNAH GREEN: I think the difference was last week that day that I played well I putted well, but during the rest of the week it was just a completely different person on the greens.
So that's all I think I really need to work on.  I'm happy with how my ball striking has been even at Ana and Kia and Founders, so I feel like just putting is really where you make all your money.  I think that goes to show with Moriya winning last year.  I wouldn't say she's the best ball striker on the tour, but sure is one of the best putters on tour.
I think whoever wins this week will have the least amount of putts.
Q. What about 18, the par-3 finishing hole?  It's not the norm, but especially on Sunday when I assume they'll have the back pin four paces from the edge...
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah.
Q. Seems like a hole you could have a two-shot swing on.
HANNAH GREEN: Absolutely.
Q. What did you think about this as a closing hole?
HANNAH GREEN: It's different.  I played a couple times where it has been a par-3 finish, but that was on the Symetra Tour.  I feel like maybe not as nerve-wracking, not as much of a crowd, but definitely a really good stage with the grandstand and clubhouse right there.
But, yeah, you're right.  Could easily be a two-shot swing.  I wouldn't say it's an easy birdie hole, but definitely very easy to bogey it.
Yeah, could be interesting come Sunday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT