LOTTE CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY HERSHEY
April 17, 2019
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Yesterday you said you just wanted to come out here and be happier with the round.  How much happier are you now with a 66?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, I'm definitely very happy.  I felt like my game was trending pretty well coming into this event.  My last event, ANA, I had just a lot of bad breaks, so it was nice to finally see some putts go in and then also a couple lucky bounces.   
Yeah, definitely really enjoyed my round today.  Obviously playing well really helped, but I also had two really nice playing partners to play with, and that definitely made the difference.   
 Q.  How much did you learn last year first time playing here?  Do something differently today?  
HANNAH GREEN: I think I just tried to stay more patient, which is always hard to say, but to do it is definitely different.  I remember last year I felt like the wind was a lot stronger in the morning round compared to what we had today.   
It was a little bit frustrating with the rain on and off, but, I mean, it wasn't too hard so it was fine to deal with.  I think it's just nice to come back to a course you've played before whether you had a good or bad result.  I think that is what I struggled with the most last year being a rookie was staying in a new hotel, playing a new course, and just playing a lot golf to see if I can get myself ready for the tournament week.   
Really excited about this year.   
 Q.  Last week was rough couple days, or two weeks ago.  What did you work on?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, so I thought that I've been hitting the ball pretty well, but I noticed a couple things that was -- my usual tendencies were kind of starting to creep in, so last week I spoke with my coaches and sent some video back to Australia and we worked on things.   
It's nothing that I haven't had to work on before, which is nice, but it just slowly crept in.  I think that's why I had the scores I did an ANA.  It was mainly long game that I worked on.  I feel like putting everyone can always get better at, and sometimes you have to get a little bit lucky to hole some putts out on the golf course.   
So that was all I mainly worked on.  Actually took a few days off and tried to enjoy L.A., which I think I did different to what I did last year.  Just more touristy things to make it fun off the golf course?   
 Q.  Did you get any comments from your friends about the sloth comment?  
HANNAH GREEN: No, I don't think any of my friends watched that.  I think my friends would know that I like to go to sleep.  I think they would agree with that.   
 Q.  When you were out here last year, was that your first tournament?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, so -- oh, my first tournament here in Hawaii; this is my first time visiting.  But it was about my fifth or sixth as an LPGA member.  I had a really good start in Australia so I had some confidence come into the event, but really struggled to control my ball flight in wind, and I think that's what I've decided to work on a little bit harder the last few says leading up to today's round.   
 Q.  Feel like you left a lot strokes out there last year?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, I did.  Last year I felt like I didn't have very much consistency.  Like I would hit a great couple shots and then hit a really wayward shot.   
This year I feel -- today I felt like I didn't hit the ball great, but I always managed to keep it in position even when I hit some bad shots.  I think you just got to be really consistent, and if you get it close, hopefully capitalize on making a putt and making a birdie.   
 Q.  When you were invited to the media conference the other day were you surprised?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, very surprised.  When Kristen asked me I was like, Oh, okay.  Like a couple other players.  Didn't really know who was there until she told me later on in the day.  Then I was like, Oh, okay, this is -- probably everyone thinks this is a bit strange that I was in that company, but it was nice.  It was my first-ever press conference, so hopefully I can have more of them.   
 Q.  Feel like you made it look like a good decision today?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, definitely.  Yeah, hopefully people know my name.   
 Q.  Is 6-under a good score today with the conditions?  
HANNAH GREEN: I think so.  I mean, I saw I think someone possibly got a 7-under, but I think especially this morning I felt like the wind was on and off.  Even if there is no wind you have to definitely shoot a low number to make sure you're keeping up with the field.   
Very happy with a 6-under, but I can definitely see the scores are a little bit low because of the wind.  But, yeah, you have to hit the ball good and you have to putt.   
It's not the exactly easy, but it is nice to have a low round this morning.   
 Q.  You had an eagle.  Walk us through that one.  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, so I hit a drive onto the fairway, and then I had roughly 86 meters, I think.  Hit my gap wedge and had a couple bounces and went into the hole.   
I wasn't sure if it went in because I don't have the best eyesight.  But, yeah, my caddie was like, I think it went in.  I was like, Oh, and then people started to clap.   
So that was really cool.  I hit that club a couple times from roughly that yardage earlier in my nine and didn't really hit it close at all, so it was nice to have it reward myself for that hole.   
 Q.  Have you ever had anything like that, like maybe a hole in one that you couldn't tell if it went in?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah.  My first-ever hole in one was like a -- the green was like minus ten or something, so you could barely really see it.  It went in, but I thought it flew over the back of the green.  First ever hole in one I didn't even witness, so that was pretty funny.   
But I've actually holed out a couple times with that club so must be my favorite.   
 Q.  To hold steady the rest of the round, how big is that going into tomorrow?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, definitely.  I thought the wind was actually going to come up for the back nine for this afternoon's round as well, but just very happy that I stayed consistent and actually gave myself a lot of opportunities to make birdie.   
I did leave a couple putts out there, but I am not going to complain about that.  I definitely holed a lot of putts that I wouldn't have on a normal round, so, yeah, very happy how I continued the round and didn't get too ahead of myself and then didn't also lose ground.   
 Q.  This was not the easiest two-putt.  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, I know.  I was like, Let's just hit the green and give myself a nice 10-footer.  Yeah, hit it a bit too right from what I would like.  But, yeah, very happy with a two-putt and to finish a par.   
 Q.  When you were signing your card there, I noticed a lady on your left there; you guys were kind of joking back and forth and she was kind of pushing you.  What was that all about?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, so one of the players, Sherman, who of on my right, she was like, give this to Saipan.  I was like, Okay.  So I was like, Oh, do you want this?  Apparently she doesn't like the smell of it and it makes her very sick, so she was like pranking her but through me.  I was like should have gave her a little...   
 Q.  Was that the orange?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah.  Apparently when she smells it it doesn't make her feel very good.  I was like, Well, that's not very nice, yeah.   
 Q.  Caught in the middle.  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, I was the little dummy in between.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT