U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 4, 2016
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Well-done; how do you feel about your match?
HANNAH GREEN: I finally played really well.  Just struggled the first few days getting everything together, but yeah, today was really good.
Q. Bogey-free today?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah.
Q. I was going to ask you what your highlights were.  Was that a highlight for you?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, that would be my highlight.
Q. You're moving through the draw here; obviously that's the goal is to keep progressing.  How do you feel about what you've done so far?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, well, yesterday I was 2-down through 9 and then ended up winning on the last, so I was -- I didn't even think I'd be playing today, and this morning I just said, you know, I have to give it everything I've got.  I knew that Lucy played well the qualifying rounds, so I had nothing to lose.  I was, I guess, the -- not the -- how do you explain it?  I wasn't the one to be expected to win, I guess, with my seeding, so I just played really well and let my game do the talking, so it was good.
Q. How good is this young lady?
HANNAH GREEN: She's really good.  I asked her how old she was, and she's 13, and I was like, wow, I only just got my handicap at 13.  It makes me feel like really old even though I'm not, but it's good to see that.
Q. How amazing is it what she's done at her age?
HANNAH GREEN: I know.
Q. Can you put it in perspective for me?
HANNAH GREEN: I cannot imagine -- like playing the U.S. Open as an 11 year old?  That's crazy.  I mean, I haven't even played the U.S. Open and I'm almost 20.  She's really talented, and I'm sure we'll see her name up there in the next five, six years.
Q. We're all scratching our head about Perth.  What's going on with Perth?
HANNAH GREEN: I don't know, the water must be good.  No, we've got some really good coaches in WA.  Wills, myself, Minjee Lee, also Ritchie Smith, so we've been well looked after.
Q. Western Australia?
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah.
Q. Is it just a thriving -- has it always been a good junior program or is it just really starting to --
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, we've had a lot of talented players come through Perth as an amateur, and then when they turn professional they either decide not to play or haven't done as well, but we've created some really good amateurs.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT