U.S. WOMEN'S AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 4, 2016
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How is your confidence level right now, Hannah?  
HANNAH GREEN: Pretty good right now.   
 Q.  This morning you ended that match early, as well, against Lucy Li, 6 & 4.  Is it as easy as it's seeming for you out there?  
HANNAH GREEN: It was tough at the start of the week.  I'm definitely getting more confident as the week goes on.  The greens are getting better.  The course is just getting better, and it's growing as the week goes on.   
 Q.  Are you okay to look back at some of those highlights with us this morning?  
HANNAH GREEN: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Your putter was really working well for you.  Here you are at the 3rd, a putt to square the match.  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, that was a slick putt.  It was good to get that one in.   
 Q.  Slicker than it looks on TV?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  Now at the 5th, another birdie putt to go 1-up.  What was the key for you on the greens today?  
HANNAH GREEN: I felt really confident over the ball, which I haven't really felt like that the previous few days, so it was nice to get that confidence, and it definitely happened throughout the whole day.   
 Q.  Now Lucy at the 8th hole.  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, that was a really good putt.  Just a shame it didn't go in.   
 Q.  So she missed that, and she goes 3 down at that point.  Was that the turning point in the match do you think?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, I think so, yeah.   
 Q.  At the 10th now, another birdie to go 4-up.  Do you think that really sealed the deal?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, that was a nice one.   
 Q.  What did your caddie say to you?  
HANNAH GREEN: Oh, he was really impressed with the way I was playing.   
 Q.  Now Lucy again at the 12th.  She just couldn't get the flat stick working today.  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, definitely.   
 Q.  So she missed that and set you up at the 14th.  This is the putt to end the match.  It's pretty nice when you know you can two-point to victory, isn't it?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, definitely, a lot of pressure off you.   
 Q.  Tell us more about the greens out there.  You said they're a lot slicker when you're out there than what we can see at home.  What's different about it?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, well, they're getting a lot firmer, and we've had some really nice weather the last two days, and they're definitely a lot firmer this afternoon compared to what the morning round was, so it's good to play on these really nice greens.   
 Q.  As you continue to advance through match play, do you feel like the pressure is building?  
HANNAH GREEN: I have no expectation this week.  This is my second time playing this tournament, and I got knocked out in the round of 64, so I am just trying to do what I can do and see how far I get.   
 Q.  What is it about the finishing holes here?  Do you not like the finishing holes because you seem to be ending all your matches early?  
HANNAH GREEN: Yeah, I like to finish them early so I don't have to play them.  It is a beautiful course, and the four, five finishing holes are really tough, so I'd like to not play those the next couple of days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT