CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 18, 2020
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Hannah, what a great second round here in Naples, Florida.  You started off hole 1 with a birdie.
 Would you say that's when the momentum started kicking in, or was it one of your birdies on 4 and 5?
 HANNAH GREEN:   I mean, I did hole a really nice putt on the first, which is always nice.  Over the last couple weeks I've kind of struggled with my consistency in putting, so I made a birdie on 4 and then 5 and holed some long putts, which kind of felt like it's been a while since I holed that length of putt.
 So got off to a really nice start, and then towards the middle of the back nine made a couple birdies, but then kind of struggled the last few holes trying to save pars.
 But I was really fortunate that I did make up and down and only had one bogey on the card.
 Q. And how long was that putt that you mentioned, the long one?
 HANNAH GREEN:   It was like probably 35, 40 feet.  So it was a long putt.  I very happy about that going in.
 Q. And what would you say is the strongest part of your game right now that you feel the most confident in?
 HANNAH GREEN:   I feel like I'm hitting a lot of fairways and greens, which is really important here.  Also miss-hitting it.  It's very easy to miss greens here, so making sure you don't short-side yourself and leave yourself in the best possible place to make up and downs.
 I think I've done a great job with that.  Over the last couple weeks it's been a struggle dealing with the cold.  I'm not used to those temperatures, so it's nice to come here and be able to just wear one layer and feel where your swing is.
 I'm really excited.  Only two more rounds left for the season.  Sounds really crazy, but I'm super excited.
 Q. I had a question about just this season.  We got the 2021 schedule today.  Was that in the back of your mind, or did you know what Mike Whan was thinking?
 HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, we have seen some drafts of it, but you never know what's going to happen.  That's the thing with COVID.  We were fortunate enough to have the events we had this year, and very fortunate CME have helped us out along the way.
 I hope -- yeah, hopefully I can get a win this year and sneak one in on my birthday, but I don't know how much my schedule will change next year.  I'm going to try to go back to Australia as much as possible, but it just depends on quarantine and where my game is.
 Q. And you mentioned birthday.  Sundays is your birthday.
 HANNAH GREEN:   Yes.
 Q. It would be really cool.  I think Ally had a win on her birthday, Drive On.  Are you usually a big birthday celebrator, or how do you envision Sunday happening?
 HANNAH GREEN:   Well, usually we don't ever play in December so normally I'm at home in Perth with my family and friends just chilling out.
 Q. And they take care of everything for you.
 HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah.  It's strange to be in an event, and I'm planning on driving back to Orlando, so it's about a three-hour drive.  I'll just mainly be by myself, but if I had a trophy in the seat next to me I would be very, very happy, so we'll see what happens.
 Q. You mentioned the schedule coming out, and I don't think it's new news that the Australia events are not on there.  Just your thoughts on that.  Hopefully they come back.
 HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, definitely.  I usually start my season in Australia because we are fortunate enough to have them in February, which is the perfect time to be there.  It's going to be really strange starting my season in the States.
 I mean, it's really tough.  We are doing really well with COVID in Australia and it's a shame that we can't keep doing travel and have events.  We've got some players series happening, the ALPGA is now changed to the WPGA, so we're getting things rolling and hoping COVID can kind of make golf in Australia better than what it was.
 Q. What are your plans?  I heard you are going to go back to Australia.  What does that mean and how -- have you had to quarantine like I'm guessing you're going to have to before?
 HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, so I'm leaving on Tuesday.  I've got about a 40, 45-hour journey to get back to Perth, and then as soon as I got there I'm in a hotel for two weeks and not by choice.
 Once I leave the airport I get shuttled to a hotel and pretty much have to do 13 nights, 14 days, and then I can go out and be back at home and live a normal life.
 So I've heard a lot of stories.  Some people have really struggled and some people don't mind it.  I think because it's at the end of the year after a short but long year, that I'll mainly be doing a lot of sleep and Netflix.
 So hopefully the food is good and my parents can bring me some things to entertain myself.
 Q. Are you going to play in Tournament of Champions or...
 HANNAH GREEN:   No, unfortunately.  You know, with the two weeks quarantine, by the time I got to Australia that probably have seven days minimum.
 So like this year I'm going to have to skip it, but hopefully in future years I can play.
 Q. Just one question:  There are leaderboards out there finally.
 HANNAH GREEN:   Yes.
 Q. Do you consider yourself someone who looks at the leaderboard?
 HANNAH GREEN:   Oh, yeah, I definitely look at them and I think -- I don't know, even if I'm not in contention, like I could be dead last, and I will still look at the leaderboard.
 That's something I'll be doing over the weekend.  Yeah, it's quite nice to see they've got them out there.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT