CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 19, 2020
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. You had a great round.  How do you feel about round two?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, it was definitely slower than yesterday.  I got off to such a great start, so always hard to back up a low round.  Really happy with my last putt.  Holed a long bomb there, so gives me another positive momentum for tomorrow.
Yeah, hopefully I can get the pace of the greens a little bit better and give myself opportunities to make birdie.
Q. When you're in a moment like this, what are you telling yourself mentally?
HANNAH GREEN:   I guess it's kind of easy for me because I have such great memories and because you go so low at this golf course.  I can remember when I made great putts and made birdies.
But I had a really good pairing this week.  I played with Austin and Leona, so we were chatting a lot.  It was a little bit slow out there, so we had a lot of time to talk and wait over shots.  So I think it was actually really good.  Took my time over shots more than I would if we were rushing a little bit.
But, yeah, just talking to my caddie and staying positive and thinking of good things.
Q. Speaking of talking, how about your family?  I know they're hours way ahead.  Have they been sending you lots of words of encouragement?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, definitely.  I pretty much talk to my mum every day.  I don't think she really sleeps when I'm playing over here.  I'm sure she's probably going to go to bed soon.
Yeah, the time difference is pretty hard when we're over in the west coast.  It's always an awkward time.  Yeah, my mum and dad are definitely my biggest supporters and I've had a lot of messages from people back home, so I'm grateful for them.
Q. When you're out there playing, whether it's a really great day or a really bad day, are you just thinking about them sometimes?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, definitely.  It's nice to even when you're -- feel like you're playing really well and the score doesn't quite show it, at least someone is still cheering for you and trying to at least give you some positive vibes.
Q. And I feel like players these days have to cheer themselves on internally because we don't have fans.  How different does it feel this year, this event, without any fans?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, it's a huge difference.  Even just without the billboards and the grandstands it's very different.
But I think I was lucky, and probably one of the reasons why I played well is because I had a great pairing.  It will be, yeah, very different come Sunday, I guess.  I mean, hopefully people are watching us on TV and can come out next year and the future years to watch us in person.
Q. And lastly, a fun question hopefully.  I notice you had a Bobos Bar.  What are some other little tricks that you do to keep yourself just really calm out there?
HANNAH GREEN:   I guess I know that when I'm not playing well I kind of go in my own little shell, so I'm always talking to my caddie as much as possible and also other players depending if they like it chat or not.
So I think that's one thing that I can notice myself, whether I need to I guess not be as hard on myself and be a little bit more uncomfortable but talk to people.
But I guess, yeah, I'm lucky that I have a really great caddie to rely on and we get on really well.  I think we'll both be watching the U.S. Open this afternoon, so we're kind of talking scores.  It will be interesting to see how their weekend goes, so excited to watch.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT