CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 18, 2020
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. What a round today.  How were you feeling after just even being able to get round one finished?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, I'm super happy.  Obviously it's getting pretty dark now and I don't think many people will be able that finish their round.
I think they're going to blow the sirens soon.  So yeah, I'm super happy that we finished and super happy with my round.
Q. And how does this momentum affect you going into tomorrow?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, I mean, I didn't finish well.  I did bogey my last hole, but obviously did some great things out there.  Putted really well, so I need to continue that.  I'm kind of glad that I have a quick turnover.  Hopefully I can continue the momentum tomorrow.
Q. Did a little bit of everything work today or what would you say you felt the most confidence in?
HANNAH GREEN:   Definitely my putting.  I think -- I missed quite a lot of greens compared to my score, so the only putt I really missed was the one on the last, so to say that it pretty good.  That's why I hope that I can continue.
I know they're a little bit bumpy this afternoon, so hopefully I can just keep rolling it well and they will actually drop.
Q. And earlier this week the players didn't get to practice as much.  How did you spend that time?
HANNAH GREEN:   I was actually doing jigsaw puzzles.  So I used the Golf Farm facility on Tuesday, and then luckily we could play on Wednesday.  I was able to get nine holes in.
But it didn't really bother me too much.  I traveled all day Monday, quite a long journey for such a short kind of flight, I guess.  So was pretty tired after and after also the heat last week at ANA.
So I was chilling out and wasn't too disappointed, obviously love this event so I would've loved to play a pro-am as defending champ.
Yeah, just jigsaws, eating food, Netflix.  Wasn't too much going on.
Q. That being said, how do you think you're going to relax tonight get ready for the next two rounds?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, so I've got a quick turnover.  Probably just going to grab some food really quickly and see my physio before tomorrow.  I don't mind the quick turnover.  I'm pretty good with sleep.  Shouldn't be too much of a problem.
Q. Definitely keeping the adrenaline.  My last question is:  What's your mental strategy for this course?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, it's obviously really soft.  We've had a lot of rain today so it's very different conditions to last year.  So you can be quite attacking I guess with the pins, but a few of them actually spun a lot, so you've got to be careful with what club you chose.
Hopefully I can keep my game plan the same.  I guess the first thing is to make sure I keep hitting fairways and I don't get into the first cut of rough.  Yeah, hopefully the positive momentum carries on to tomorrow.
Q. Thank you so much, Hannah, and great round.
HANNAH GREEN:   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT