CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 17, 2020
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Here with our defending champion, Hannah Green.  Hannah, it's a bit of a surreal week here in Portland, but thankfully we're starting to see sunny skies.
No matter what, coming back here to Columbia Edgewater has to bring back some good memories for you.  How are you feeling as you start your title defense?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, absolutely.  It's kind of weird like coming back and seeing my photo in the clubhouse and then also coming back and thinking, oh, I made birdie here, made a great par here.
Yeah, so many great memories.  I hope that I can create some more this week.
Q. You just had a nice presentation upstairs from the tournament.  Tell us what they just handed over to you?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, so I finally got to see my trophy.  Got my name on it and everything.  They also made two little puzzles of some photos from last year.  They probably know from my social media that I like jigsaws, so they presented me with that as well.
Really nice way for me to finish my practice today and get ready for tomorrow.
Q. Talking about the course out there.  It's smoky.  We are expecting some rain tonight and tomorrow that's going to clear it out.  What have the last few days been like for you ligament through these air quality conditions, and now that you've seen the golf course how are you feeling?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, it's been quite strange.  Monday was a complete travel day for me so I was always going to take it off, but Tuesday not being able to practice was a little strange.  I mean, last week at ANA it was so hot.  It probably took a lot more out of me than I realized, so I think it was not a bad thing to have a couple days off.
But I was really fortunate that yesterday before they blew the siren I had got nine holes in, and then today I also played.  So I've got some good practice in, and I've been very fortunate that I haven't felt the air quality too much.
Yeah, I'm hoping we can get some rain overnight and have some good conditions for the next few days.
Q. This is a big week for you.  Title defense, coming up on another big title defense in a couple weeks at KPMG.  It's got to be an exciting couple weeks for you but surreal perhaps.
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, absolutely.  I was just saying before that I guess because of COVID normally I would be defending KPMG first, so it's kind of nice to come back here to Portland and have a little bit of a taste before I go and play a major.
So, yeah, it's crazy the schedule for them to be so close, but, yeah, I'm really excited for the next three weeks.
Q. You come back to a title defense here on a course that you know; in a couple weeks at Aronimink you don't.  Have you had any looks at Aronimink yet, or how are you planning ahead for that?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, so I'm actually going Philadelphia next week.  I'm going to be with Su Oh, my best friend.  She has a reciprocal club, Philly Cricket Club, so we're going to go and practice there and we're going to try and play Aronimink and also Merion.
So we've got some good golf courses lined up.  Yeah, hopefully I can have a good look at it, because I'm sure the week of the tournament is going to be pretty hectic and nerve wracking.
Q. Well this week you've got Cambia Portland Classic ahead of you.  We're excited for you.  Good luck this week.
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah.  Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT