ANA INSPIRATION
September 10, 2020
Hannah Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Hannah, a nice 3-under par to start the ANA Inspiration.  How did it feel to get out in competition mode here at this major?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, it was nice to get back out there, especially after like playing practice rounds in golf carts.  I must admit I didn't really walk as much as I wanted to during the practice rounds, so it was kind of a little bit different to actually get competitive and get back out there walking.  But yeah, super happy with my round.  I putted really solid, so I hope I can continue that for the rest of the tournament.
Q. How different is this course playing compared to the typical spring date?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, so I know usually the greens are really firm and quite fast, but the rough is a different texture, I guess, this year.  I did pretty well to avoid the rough, but there was a couple situations where I could barely even see the golf ball, almost stepped on it, so it's different, but I mean, those who hit really good shots are going to be rewarded, and I guess everyone has the same game plan, to hit as many fairways and greens as possible and hopefully make a few putts here and there.
Q. How do you anticipate the difference between your early tee time today and your late tee time tomorrow?  Any plans as far as what you're going to do to make sure you stay cool throughout the round?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, I've just done a little bit of practice because I'm pretty happy with how things were going in my round today, so I'm just going to go back to my hotel and chill out, try not to go to sleep and ruin my -- I'm not very good with jet lag, so I have been waking up pretty early, so I don't want to do that.  But I guess I'm kind of used to this type of heat.  Where I live can typically get around this temperature, so this morning has been actually not too bad, but I figure this afternoon will get warm and I think during the rest of the tournament it will get warm again.  Yeah, just going to chill out, watch some Netflix, not really do a whole lot, and then tomorrow morning just try and sleep in and have a good, I guess, warmup to my tournament round.
Q. Do you feel that the pace at which you guys played today in twosomes is a positive for you and benefits your style of play?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, I've had some mixed results to the restart for this season.  I feel like I've been playing better when it comes to a tougher course and thinking about shots a little bit more, and that's what I did today with my caddie.  There were a couple times where we were in between clubs and we just had to think about what would give us the best opportunity to make par, and I think majors always kind of give you that position when you're on the golf course, so yeah, it's really nice to be back out here.  I'm sure all of us are really pleased that we're here playing at ANA.  Yeah, it's a little bit warmer than I would expect, but I think we're really excited for the rest of the week.
Q. You're a two-time winner last year, including your first major title.  When you come here and you get on-site at a major championship, are the expectations for yourself different now, and how do you manage what you hope to accomplish now at a major?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, I definitely had to reset my goals after I had two wins last year, but I don't want to put too much pressure on myself, either.  I feel like I could probably get in my own head a little bit.  I'm not too bad when it comes to other pressure, but I'm pretty tough on myself I would say.  It definitely gives you some confidence having some experience in some high-pressure type of situations, so yeah, hopefully I can bank on that if that happens on Sunday.
Q. You played here for Q-school, correct?
HANNAH GREEN:   No, I didn't, so I was lucky enough that I had a good enough World Ranking so I missed this stage.  I heard so many stories about it being as hot as this if not hotter, so I got really lucky to not have to go there.
Q. How does it feel just to be in this position after day one when you can drawback on what you accomplished at KPMG last year and just start right near the top of the leaderboard today?
HANNAH GREEN:   Yeah, I'm really pleased, especially in the morning.  I feel like this afternoon the greens were already starting to firm up towards the end of my round, so I feel like it will be more of a grind this afternoon, so who knows, this week's winner may even come from behind, may even have an earlier tee time, but I hope that I can keep myself up there in contention, and yeah, hopefully bank on the experience I've had from last year.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT