WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2015
Andrea Petkovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. PETKOVIC/M. Duque‑Marino
  6‑3, 6‑1

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   This doesn't have anything to do with the match.   It's a very serious question.   Probably more than anyone in sport, you have tremendous interest outside the game.   You also have a great connection with South Carolina in my country, Charleston, the great win there, your father going to Clemson.   Could you take a moment and just reflect on what your thoughts were when you heard the news of what occurred there and with the flag. 
ANDREA PETKOVIC:   Yeah.   I was definitely shocked and very moved by what happened.   I felt like it's been a rough patch for Charleston in the past month. I mean, it's a bigger issue than I have words for and that I can probably talk about. 
But I just felt probably more moved by it and shocked than normally, just because I feel very close to South Carolina and very welcomed always when I'm there. 
You know, sometimes those things happen in a row in one place, and it's amazing why that happens. 
As I said, just very, very shocked and very moved.   I felt very connected to everything that happened there.   I'm playing Shelby obviously in the first round, just reminded me of everything. 
It's definitely been an issue in our family and we talked about it.   My dad was very shocked about what happened.
Yeah.   I feel like the victims' reactions, the families, they really chose the right path. I think it made South Carolina probably stronger than before, and that's really beautiful to see.   I don't know if I was in the position if I would have had the strength to react in that way.   That's more admirable and amazing to see.

Q.   You must have had a lot of connections with many wonderful people in Charleston, and yet such a terrible thing has occurred.   Juxtaposition and... 
ANDREA PETKOVIC:   Yeah, with everything in life, beauty and ugliness lies so close to each other, and love and hate lie very close to each other, and Charleston is such a beautiful place.   Sometimes the ugliest things happen in the most beautiful places.

Q.   You mentioned Shelby.   Back to that match for a second.   I mean, there were circumstances with her and injury and stuff.   But when it's a love and love outcome, obviously it's unusual.   Have you had many of those?   Is it sort of a weird feeling even as a competitor to be involved in that?
ANDREA PETKOVIC:   I had a few actually.   Yeah, I did.   I never had one in a Grand Slam, but I had a few already. 
It's always difficult thing for me.   I have learned when I grew up I learned every match point by point.   I tried to do that.   That has helped me in a lot of tight situations.   That's why I'm mentally very stable, and I play normally really well and in the deciding moments because I play point by point.
But then when you're up 11‑0, obviously you feel bad for the other person, especially somebody like Shelby that I really like and that I think is a great girl, but you just have to do what you have to do sometimes.   It's just your job and you can't let feelings get to you, as hard as it sounds.

Q.   Today was the hottest day on Wimbledon on record.   We Brits like to talk about that.   We struggle.   For a tennis player, I guess you're fairly used to it, maybe Australia and training in hot conditions, anyway.   What was it like out there playing in that?
ANDREA PETKOVIC:   It was difficult, because obviously I'm used to playing in hot conditions, but never used to playing in hot conditions on grass.   It really changes the surface.   The ball goes through the grass.   It bounces a little bit higher.   But the Slazenger balls go, you get a little pop on it because normally they are heavy and very difficult to accelerate.
All of a sudden, you really had a pop on it, and I felt like a few balls were flying that normally don't fly.
And, yeah, and the ball bounces a little higher, which is nice for me because I'm a little tall.   So I could save some energy.   I didn't have to go that low. 
It was really interesting to see, to experience that heat on such a surface like grass.   Never had it before.   It does, though, affect the grass in the way that a little more bad bounces, I guess, because it dries up in a few places in a way that it probably usually doesn't.
New experience.   You never cease to learn, I guess. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT