ROLAND GARROS
May 28, 2015
Andrea Petkovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. PETKOVIC/L. Dominguez Lino  4-6, 6-4, 6-4    THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   Q.  So you had obviously a tough third set there.  Was it just a matter of executing, or did you have to change something?  ANDREA PETKOVIC: Yeah, well, I wasn't feeling great in the beginning and I didn't feel my strokes perfectly, so I just forgot play any angles at all.  She was running incredibly and she was playing great tennis. I played her twice and she was not as aggressive the two times I played her before.  She really tried something else today, and it worked well for her. I knew what I had to do.  I was just sort of -- yeah, it was too risky -- it was a decision of balance that I had to make.  It was too risky because I didn't feel my strokes to go for the angles and I didn't feel safe.  When I tried it I framed the ball a few times and then I went for the boom, boom, boom, which didn't work well either. So after a set and a half I suddenly found my range and my rhythm and then I started playing the angles and worked much better. In the third set, I mean, I played really well in the moments that mattered.  Well, I'm just happy I got through.  (Laughter.)   Q.  How was your thigh today?  There was a point it looked like you were touching it and it was giving you some pain.  ANDREA PETKOVIC: Yeah, it wasn't great.  It wasn't great at all.  It's not that I have the sharp pain anymore, which is good.  Just when it gets tired. I was expecting it, I have to say.  Just sort of tightens up.  You know when you have it sometimes when you're really stressed above the eye when the muscle like -- I don't know if anybody has it.  Sometimes I have it a lot. That's how actually my muscle feels.  It's sort of, yeah, jumping and tightening up and letting go again.  So I felt very nervous running to the dropshots, and she was playing a lot of them. It wasn't a matter of a sharp pain, which is great, I guess, that was troubling me the days before.  It's improving, you know.  The pain is just evolving, which is nice to see.  (Laughter.)   Q.  You have Errani next, which is kind of a similar matchup in terms of styles.  ANDREA PETKOVIC: Yeah.   Q.  Quarterfinal last year.  How do you feel about playing her third round here?  ANDREA PETKOVIC: Yeah, definitely a really tough draw for me in Roland Garros third round already having Errani. No matter what she does in the season or in the tournaments before, she always comes here and plays really great tennis. Last year when I beat her I played one of the best matches that I had ever played, so it's going to be tough to duplicate that and to copy that match. So I'm just going to have to work really hard every point.  I think I'm prepared now in terms of style.  The only thing I think is Sara plays a little bit more aggressive and a little bit closer to the baseline. Apart from that, it's pretty similar.  So, yeah, we'll see.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT