WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2014
Andrea Petkovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 E. BOUCHARD/A. Petkovic
  6/3, 6/4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Just generally how do you feel you played and what decided the match?  
ANDREA PETKOVIC:   Well, I felt like Genie played a really good match, really solid match, and she was playing very aggressively.  
I felt like I didn't play bad.   Just in the first set I missed maybe four or five easy shots that I should have made where I was a little too hectic and I rushed the point instead of just playing it solid and coming in to the net.  
Against a player like Genie, that is totally enough to lose the set.   
Then in the second I had my chances.   I felt like I was there.   I was able to put a little more pressure on her.  
Then again, she served really well when it mattered.   My serve wasn't going so well today.   I felt like I didn't have a high percentage in my first serve, and then she took advantage of it.  
I think she played a very solid, good match, so it was just a couple of points that made the difference.   She was better at that moment I think, at the crucial moments.  
   
 Q.   You must sense she's going to go for it, go for it, go for.   When she's going for it and making her shots, it's pretty tough to be on the other end.   
ANDREA PETKOVIC:   Oh, definitely.   That's why I said the three or four points that I didn't make, because she puts so much pressure she actually makes you rush sometimes.  
Then when you have an easy shot, you sort of want to go for too much instead of playing it safe and going to the net.  
That's her game.   She puts so much pressure also visually because she steps so early into the court.   
As I said, if you keep your calm and you manage to hang in there after the first two shots, you get your chances.  
I think she's very good in the first two shots:   the return and the first shot and the serve and the first shot.   
Yeah, but she's a great player.   As I said, I have a lot of respect for her and she's going to go her way definitely.  
   
 Q.   What was the exchange at the net?   
ANDREA PETKOVIC:   Well, there was one lady in the audience and she was coughing nonstop.   It was so loud and really annoying.   I didn't want to say anything, and Genie also, she was kind of shy, because I guess she didn't know how I felt after losing the match.   She was like, Did you hear the lady coughing?   
It was so funny, because I had it in my mind the whole time.   You're not like focused on it, but you constantly hear it in the back of your mind.   I told her, Yeah, I thought she was dying.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT