ROLAND GARROS
May 29, 2014
Andrea Petkovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. PETKOVIC/S. Voegele
      6‑2, 4‑6, 6‑2 
  
    THE MODERATOR:   Questions in English, please.   
   
 Q.   Wasn't always straightforward today, but you got through.   
    ANDREA PETKOVIC:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   Must be pretty excited to still be in the tournament.   
    ANDREA PETKOVIC:   Yeah, I feel like I played really well in certain stages of the match.   I felt like I played better than ever before, as I said, in certain stages of the match.   
    Then in the second set she started serving much better.   And when her first serve got in, I felt like she served really well with her first serve, so I was always under pressure.  
    It just sort of slipped away in the second set.   I don't really know what happened.   Because I didn't play as well as I did in the first set, but also didn't play really bad.  
    It's just I got a little passive and she took her chances.   All of a sudden I was broken and she played a really good game at 5‑4.   Then it's in the third set and then it gets tricky.   She starts playing really well.  
    In the end, I played well again.   Not as well as the first set, but all in all it was fine.   I felt like I am making some improvements, definitely.  
   
 Q.   How much do you look at the draw?   
    ANDREA PETKOVIC:   I always only look match by match, but when not things happen like with Na Li, everybody sort of approaches you like, Your draw is wide open; you're going to win the tournament.   (Laughing.)  
    You sort of have to stop them, because, you know, Na Li lost for a reason, because there are other good players that can beat you if you're not at your best.   It's not that you're draw is wide open.   There are other players I have to beat round by round.  
    It's a cliche to say I just look at the next round, but anybody who does anything else is going to lose.   That's why we do only look at the next round.  
    Yeah, so now I'm facing Kiki, a French girl, which is going to be really tough with the atmosphere, but I'm ready.   We'll see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Have you prepared for that atmosphere?   You'll be on Chatrier probably with 13,000 French people wanting you to fail.   
    ANDREA PETKOVIC:   Yeah, well, it's going to be interesting because I played Alize and I played Kiki in Paris and Coubertin in February, and the atmosphere was‑‑ against Kiki there were not as many people, but against Alize it was almost full.   It was quarters and the atmosphere was amazing.   Against me, but still amazing.  
    So I'm just going to try to black it out and focus on myself and try to play my best tennis.   I'm well aware of the difficulties and that's it's going to be really tough and a big challenge and that Kristina is probably going to play her best tennis and going to be lifted by the crowd.  
    That's okay for me.   I am just going to focus on myself and try my best.   That's all I can do.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT