U.S. OPEN
September 5, 2011
Andrea Petkovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. PETKOVIC/C. Suarez Navarro
  6-1, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Players don't like to say who they wish to meet in the next round, but you're not like most players. Maybe you could tell us. 
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Actually, I don't prefer anybody. I like to play both because I always feel like we have good matches. I played Caroline twice and I played Svetlana three or four times already. 
 And it was always good matches because, you know, you have to build up the point against them. You have to really play smart, and you have to work hard for your point with both of the players. I really enjoy those matches more than playing hard hitters that you have to survive somehow. 
 So both is fine for me. 

 Q. Who do you expect to play?
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Well, I haven't seen any of Svetlana's matches at all. I saw one of Caroline's matches. She played really well. I think if she plays like this, she has better chances. 
 I haven't seen Svetlana at all. If she plays well, she can beat everybody. I think it's 50/50.

 Q. You had a tough match with Caroline in Miami. You won it. How do you remember that match?
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Well, I played really solid. I played well. I played very smart. I kept my game plan throughout the whole match. 
 I lost then afterwards against her in Stuttgart. She played an incredible match there. She played really, really well. 
 She's a really tough opponent. As I said, you have to work for every point and you have to play at your limit to beat her. So that's what I'm gonna try to do. 
 But either of those players, I think it's going to be really tough. 

 Q. You're the only player this year that has reached three quarterfinals at Grand Slams. 
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Oh yeah? (Smiling.) 

 Q. Can you talk about what you've added to your game this year since you've been making such good results at Grand Slams. 
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: First of all, I think after last year's breakthrough here when I reached fourth round, my confidence changed completely. I just started believing in myself I could reach the second weeks of Grand Slams. 
 Before, I was just playing and seeing what happens. And now after that I really started believing in myself and I started focusing also and putting my plan as if I'm going to play for two weeks. That has changed. 
 And definitely the experience of last year. I lost a lot of tough matches that I shouldn't have lost. I lost a lot of close matches. I crumbled under pressure. I crumbled on key moments. 
 And this didn't happen to me that much anymore this year. It still happens. I think that's normal. I think everybody gets nervous. 
 But I seem to handle everything better. Well, it's tough to say because it can change every day (snapping fingers). I seem to have found better ways to handle the expectations that have now risen since the last year. 

 Q. How has the planning changed? 
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Well, for example, I plan my practice schedules and my tournament schedules to peak at the Grand Slams, to be able to perform two weeks. If I lose first round, okay, bad luck. But I plan as if I'm going to be here two weeks. 
 Where I used to play tournaments right before the Grand Slam, I used to play too much because I didn't expect myself being here for two weeks. Now I plan as if I'm going to be here for two weeks. If it doesn't happen, bad luck for me. 

 Q. Returning to the Miami match with Wozniacki, what was the key for you that night?
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Well, I think, you know, I played really solid and I played with high intensity every point. I think Caroline was also a little tired in that match because she had just won Indian Wells. She had a lot of tough matches before. 
 So I just took the advantage that I had, and it was really hot that day, I remember. So I just took my little advantages and chances that I had. And I think the key thing was that I played every point with full intensity. 
 I didn't give any presents, not easy presents. That's most important against Caroline because she just takes -- if you have just a little, little letdown, it can cost you the match immediately against Caroline, and that's what makes her so strong. I think that's what I have to try to avoid this time, as well, if I play her. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT