ROGERS CUP WOMEN
August 12, 2011
Andrea Petkovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







A. RADWANSKA/A. Petkovic
  6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. At least you didn't have to run off the court this time. 
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Yeah. No, I felt perfectly fine. 
 I think it was a good match. I think the difference was just in a few points. I think Agnieszka played great from the first, maybe the first game, but, you know, the first game is always... But then she played really, really well. 
 I think there were like five or six important points where I missed it this much, where I missed it into the net just in the highest net thing.
 So, yeah, it's a little bit of bad luck, and maybe I should have been a little tougher in the long rallies, but she played well.

 Q. She's a little bit of a different player. What makes her so tough?
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Well, actually, I really enjoy playing her, because I always think it's a good match to watch for the audience.
 But, you know, because most of the time you are used to short rallies, especially after today. You know, there were two totally different matches where I played Petra where it was like two or three strokes only, and, you know, ta-ta, and then if it's short, okay, you go for it. And with Agnieszka it's always long rallies. You have to really build up the point. 
 And I think I played a little bit too much, you know, like flat to her. Maybe I should have used the angles more.
 But that's something that you realize after the match. I did it better, actually, in Carlsbad than today. But today I just felt like, I don't know, I needed to overpower her, which was the wrong approach.
 So, yeah, I learned from it for the next time. US Open maybe already.

 Q. You have been one of the brightest personalities here at this tournament. We saw a different side of you today after the first set. 
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: I was really bright, also.

 Q. Was that a help to you, do you find, generally when you do that?
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: It depends. Today it was a help, because I just felt -- I felt like a big stone but mental stone today, not a real stone today. In my stomach, it needed to get out. And afterwards I felt much better and much more relaxed. 
 But, you know, you cannot allow yourself to lose points because of this, you know. And today I used the break in between the two sets to get it all out, and then I was fine again. 
 But sometimes if it comes during important points or during important games, it can cost you a few points, and that is the worst thing that can happen. So I'm working on it. 
 I'm already much better, but sometimes I know that that sounds strange after today, but sometimes it's still the junior in me comes out, you know. I still have to work on that. 

 Q. On that theme, we think of tennis and especially women's tennis as a very genteel game but is one of the sports that encourages those kind of outbursts. Seems like that's John McEnroe's mystique. That's the mystique of a lot of players is that they flip out on the court. Do you think that's kind of expected that when things aren't going well you should start smashing your racquet and screaming?
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Well, I think nowadays you don't see it at all anymore. I think it's just -- actually, John McEnroe was one of my favorite players. I really enjoyed his outbursts, I have to say. But, you know, he was a different kind of personality. He used it to his advantage. In my case, if I have an outburst, most of the time I cannot use it to my advantage so this is a problem.
 But, you know, I think everybody needs to find the right way for himself, and I think today, nowadays, the players are really, really much calmer than they were in the days back then, although me, myself, personally when I watch tennis, I like to see some emotions, but that's everybody's own choice. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT