AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2011
Andrea Petkovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. PETKOVIC/V. Williams
  1-0 (ret.) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
  
  Q. Do you feel like you got stood up at a really good restaurant tonight?   
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Well, you know I feel very weird about how the things went tonight, because on one hand, obviously I'm one round further which is great for me.  
 But on the other hand I really felt great today. I really wanted to give it a try and give it a good fight, because I felt relaxed. I felt the ball well on my racquet, so, well, it's a pity. I feel very sorry. I just hope she gets better because she's such a great champion. It's just players like her that pull the people out to Grand Slams, so I feel very sorry for her.  
  
  Q. Do you feel there should be a rule, maybe a medical certificate for people that are injured to be able to play?  
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: I think the rules are fine. I think she wanted to give it a try. Stress situations are always different than in practice or preparation. She wanted to see how am I playing. She finished the second match. She finished with an injury because she obviously felt like she was able to. I think the rules are fine. She wanted to give it a try and see what happened. I think the people saw a great men's match before.  
 So I'm totally satisfied with the rules.   
  
  Q. Is it different mentally to prepare for a match like that against a champion like Venus knowing she's not going to be 100%?  
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Well, I tried to just black it out that she might be injured. Sometimes when you counts on that, then you are just -- you don't prepare well and you're not very focused. You are just too relaxed.  
 You have to find the right tension. So I prepared like I was preparing for a three-setter, probably three and a half hours. So better to be prepared for a five-set match and only play one set than be prepared for one and you have to play three in the end. So I just approach it like that.  
  
  Q. That's back-to-back fourth rounds now at Grand Slams. Must be some satisfaction for you personally?  
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: I'm definitely happy that I backed it up, that it was not a one-week thing. I was lucky the last time someone retired in the last round. So I hope I'm not jinxing the other girls. I really feel terrible that everybody has to retire against me in the third round.  
 I hope next time I will make the fourth round with playing the third round.   
  
  Q. I didn't see you play earlier in the year. You're doing better now.   
 ANDREA PETKOVIC: Well, I prepared -- I never prepared as hard as I did in the pre-season. I worked very hard physically; I'm moving much, much better than before. I'm just stronger.  
 That I'm stronger makes me feel just better and relaxed. I just feel better on the court. It's strange, but I just feel better on the court.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT