BNP PARIBAS FED CUP: USA VS GERMANY
February 11, 2017
Andrea Petkovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. RISKE/A. Petkovic   
7-6, 6-2   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  How were the conditions out there?  Was it tough with the wind and the occasional rain and stuff?  
ANDREA PETKOVIC: Yeah, it was tough, but we practiced in the wind the days before.  It wasn't as strong as today, but I think we were used to it.  I think it was a good quality match, especially in the first set.  It was really the tipping point, I think, of the whole match.   
I had a lot of chances to close it out, and then Alison played a really great second set and didn't give me a lot of chances.   
So I think it was really in the first set that I lost the match.   
 Q.  Were you surprised how aggressive she was at the net at times?  
ANDREA PETKOVIC: No.  I never played her before so I didn't know exactly how she plays, but I've seen her play before and she's had a really great year.  She won a tournament in Shenzhen and beat Radwanska, so I was aware I had to play great tennis.   
Considering all the conditions, it was a good quality match in the first set.  I just didn't close it out.  Yeah, maybe a little unlucky in few moments; maybe a little also few mistakes that shouldn't have happened in the important moments.   
Then, as I said, she played fantastic second set.   
 Q.  What did you think of the crowd, especially the German contingent?  
ANDREA PETKOVIC: Well, I thought the crowd was great, especially, as I said, considering the conditions and with the rain showers in between.  They were always there.  I always enjoy playing Fed Cup no matter if it's at home or away.  I always enjoy the crowds.   
It was a fairly small crowd for a Fed Cup, but loud and euphoric.  Yeah, it was great to play.   
 Q.  The national anthem screw up, did that upset you guys?  
ANDREA PETKOVIC: I thought it was the epitome of ignorance, and I never felt more disrespected in my whole life.  I've played Fed Cup for 13 years now, and it was the worst thing that has ever happened to me.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT