NCAA MEN'S REGIONALS SEMIFINALS & FINALS: HOUSTON
March 27, 2015
Dallin Bachynski
Larry Krystkowiak
Jakob Poeltl
Delon Wright
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







DUKE - 63
  UTAH - 57

THE MODERATOR: We're joined by University of Utah Coach, Larry Krystkowiak, Delon Wright, Dallin Bachynski, and Jakob Poeltl. Coach.COACH KRYSTKOWIAK: I don't really have an opening statement.  Just fire away with the questions.THE MODERATOR: Questions for the student-athletes.Q. For Delon, you know you guys were down by a lot from the middle of the second half, what kind of happened in that rally to make your way back and make it a fight at the end?DELON WRIGHT: Some things just started going our way.  We started to rebound, stops, some baskets started to go in for us, and we were able to make a run.  So, you know, that's pretty much it.Q. Dallin and Delon, how do you feel about the last game of your careers in Utah's uniform?THE MODERATOR: Dallin, go first.DALLIN BACHYNSKI: For me, I just wish I could have left a little more out there.  I tried playing hard and I wish I could have done a little more.  I think we all have some regrets from the game and we would like a redo, really, but, you know, I'm not thinking about the game right now.  I'm thinking about the whole experience that I had with all of my teammates and all my friends and my family that I'll miss.DELON WRIGHT: It was tough.  Feel like we could have won that game.  You know, just one of those games that we weren't clicking as a team, but, you know, it happens and we have to move on.Q. The question is, with about five minutes left in the game, pulled within 8, really great containment pressure, seemed like you weren't going to go anywhere.  Talk about that and did you feel a good resurgence at that point, and that's for all three of you guys.THE MODERATOR: Jakob, take that.JAKOB POELTL: I didn't get that a hundred percent.  Say it again.Q. No problem.  It's about five minutes left in the game, you guys pulled within 8 and the containment pressure was very good that you guys were putting on Duke.  Talk about that, and did you guys feel a resurgence at that point?JAKOB POELTL: Well, we knew we could play better than what we showed before that and we just stick together.  We knew the game wasn't over and we played with energy, played hard, and, like you said, we got within 8.  I know there's not much more to say.  We played hard, but we couldn't really finish it off at the end.Q. Dallin, what are the regrets that you have?DALLIN BACHYNSKI: I think there was a couple rebounds I could have got.  There were a couple times where I could have hustled a little more, maybe made a better pass, and then I got two free throws I missed at the line.Q. Coach, can you tell me as you reflect, and I know it's right after the game, a good season for you guys, disappointing end.  Where do you go from here?COACH KRYSTKOWIAK: Well, heck if I know.  I'm in decompress mode at this point.  Just enjoyed the experience with these kids and going to soak that up for a little while and reflect, you know, little R-and-R and, you know, back in the saddle, but that's the last thing I'm thinking about right now. It's that point in the year where it's been a heck of a year from September all the way till now, and these kids have given us their heart and souls for the entire year, unbelievable group of guys, and, you know, I'm just thinking about getting back to Salt Lake.  That's where I'm going from here and put it all in perspective.Q. For all three players, do you feel like with the comeback you made at the end, you went down swinging?DELON WRIGHT: Yeah, we definitely went down swinging.  I think we made it a game towards the end and, you know, that's about it.DALLIN BACHYNSKI: I know that all our guys are not quitters, not a single one of us would stop fighting by the end of the game; whether we're down 8, 9 or 5 or 2, we're going to keep fighting and going, and it's just the kind of players that we've got.  We're not quitters, and every day we're going to come and even tomorrow we're going to take some rest and recover.  But once we get back at it, we'll be a hundred percent.JAKOB POELTL: I think we showed great character at the end, and we definitely didn't lose that game at the end.  I think we could have done a better job in the first half.THE MODERATOR: We'll let the student-athletes go and take questions for Coach now.Q. Coach, Winslow being able to hit his shots today, how much more difficult does he become as a matchup when he's able to hit outside shots like did he today?COACH KRYSTKOWIAK: Well, that's -- he's a high-powered guy.  We looked at stats.  I think for the last eight games, he had a multiple three-point shooting game.  Hit 3 against Syracuse and 2, 3 against somebody else.  Most part was a 1-3 game player with his attack moves and his athleticism and quickness, we were going to live with his ability to knock down a 3 and it got us.  No doubt about it.  He stepped up.  Thought we did a terrific job on their two leading scorers, and that's what makes Duke, you know, Duke.  And they've got some other guys that rose to the occasion tonight, made some big plays, but I thought him coming back to Houston day after a birthday, only juiced up and ready to go.  We didn't have an answer.Q. Larry, missed the first nine shots to start the game, do you think that's jitters?  And same question for the players, do you think your team went down swinging today?COACH KRYSTKOWIAK: I'm not sure we played -- there's been very few first halves that were as poor as we were offensively.  We were really good defensively and spent -- maybe shame on me for the last four days.  We spent about 90 percent of our time on our defense and hung our hat on our defense and really proud of the effort that we put forth and it was a combination -- I thought our turnovers more than the missed shots put an undue pressure on our -- when we had turnover to start with trying to throw to Brandon under the basket and went out of bounds.  9 in the first half.  That was the difference, 9 turnovers.  And then sometimes when you're presented with open shots, it was a bad combination.  Still to be down 5 at half it really felt like we were down 20.  There was a little bit of hope if we dialed in, took better care of the basketball -- we needed to see some shots go in.  That gives you a little bit of umph.  When we were down 15 late in the game, the 3s add up pretty quick.  We didn't have that facet of the game until the very end.  We never really got a good feeling.  But I think the combination of -- I know the game before us they didn't shoot real well.  It's an interesting environment.  It's not a basketball arena.  It's the only Regional that's played in a venue like this.  Everybody else is a normal-sized arena.  It's not our issue, it's Duke's issue as well as everybody else.  It had a lot more to do with our mindset and turnovers.  That probably sealed our fate more than anything. As far as going down swinging, that's -- we always do that.  I mean, we got our butts kicked I think once this year when we played at Arizona where we pretty much got knocked down and didn't get up from that game, but we hadn't been -- we haven't really been beaten like that, and I can trust our guys.  We had eight minutes to go in the game.  I talked about that, you know, and sometimes we need a little bit more of that sense of urgency early in the game.  But we do a nice job of responding when we get down and coming back, we've come back any number of games and the kids have never quit. So, I think that's important and that's something we talk about in our program.  It's really hard to beat somebody that never gives up.  That's not just a basketball deal, that's in life and in general, and that's one of the things we try to get across to our players.Q. Coach, speaking of turnovers, your team seemed to really struggle against Duke's press.  Is that something that you guys prepared for coming into this game?COACH KRYSTKOWIAK: We did, we did daily, believe it or not, it didn't look like it, but, you know, I thought there was going to be a moment of truth in the game where they pressed and if we took care of the ball, probably weren't going to see much of it.  And, unfortunately, we had some turnovers and they kind of juiced it up a little bit and added to it.  We had a ten-second call and lot of unforced errors with that that were more of a mindset and lack of ability to make a play. I'd love to take as much blame as I can for it, but we certainly prepared for the press and knew it was there.THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach.COACH KRYSTKOWIAK: Okay.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT