NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 29, 2015
Patrick Kane
Brad Richards
Jonathan Toews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   For any of you.   With as intense as this series has been, is it nice to get this little day buffer in here or would you have rather gone up again?   
UNIDENTIFIED PLAYER:   I don't know.   I think halfway through the series, some long games, probably a little bit more now.   But I think at this point we're pretty excited.   I think we would have (indiscernible) the chance to go out there and play tonight.   But we'll get prepared as much as we can today, take advantage of the day off in that regards and get ready for tomorrow.   
At the end of the day, there's going to be a lot of excitement, a lot of energy.   We're looking forward to getting out there.   
   
 Q.   Pat, you guys are probably not surprised what the top four defensemen have been able to do.   For them to be able to play that many minutes, play that consistently, how much has that factored into what you want to do, the success you've had in the series?   
PATRICK KANE:   Yeah, I think it helps.   You look at our D corps, it's probably one of the strongest parts of our team.   We know they've been playing a lot of minutes, but I think they kind of relish that opportunity.   They have been doing fine with it.   
Don't see any times of them slowing up or having any repercussions from playing those minutes.   So I think they're accustomed to it, and they've been huge for us back there.   It's I'm sure something they'll expect to do again tomorrow night.   
   
 Q.   Brad, having never lost a Game 7, what approach do you take to it?   What have you learned from your past experiences?   
BRAD RICHARDS:   Just try to enjoy it.   They're probably the greatest memories you'll have in your life with this game, as far as hockey.   We play so many games through the year that are tough to mentally get yourself to certain levels with the scheduling and the travel and stuff.   But when you get into obviously playoff games, and then you add it to Game 7s with the chance to get to Stanley Cup Finals, whatever, knock people off, you know, there's no better feeling waking up that morning knowing the whole hockey world's watching.   
You just try to relish it, go out and enjoy them because it will go by quick.   Someday you'll be sitting back reminiscing about all those great memories.   So try to make them worthwhile.   
   
 Q.   Patrick and Jonathan, it's been almost a full year since last year Game 7, the Kings.   Are you looking at this tomorrow as a chance of redemption, a chance to make up for what you lost a year ago?   
JONATHAN TOEWS:   Well, I mean, it just so happens to be that same game we lost, the way our season ended last year.   So it's easy to look at that way.   You know, in some way we felt we were close, you know, within one goal of going to the Stanley Cup Final, and in our belief on to another Stanley Cup.   
But, you know, it's that opportunity that we lost.   And I think we're taking it one step at a time this year.   We've finally gotten back to a point where we're giving ourselves a pretty good chance again.   We don't want to get ahead of ourselves.   We haven't done that so far.   So obviously tomorrow night's a big one.   
But we've talked about that experience, kind of reliving some big games that guys in our locker room have been a part of, in their past, in their careers.   That's definitely one of the things we can draw from and use as fuel in some way for tomorrow night.   
   
 Q.   Patrick, you're a guy that has put up big numbers in elimination games.   What does it take to do that?   Does it give you a greater appreciation of a guy like Duncan and how he's been able to play in these playoffs?   
PATRICK KANE:   You know, I mean, I think just our team in general, if you look at our past history, we've always been pretty good with our backs up against the wall, we've come out with some big performances.   
You know, we have a lot of guys that step up in those situations, whether it's myself, Dunks, Johnny, obviously Richie has a great record in closeout situations.   
I think we kind of look at one another in the room and know that we got the right group together, know that we got a great opportunity here.   I don't think anyone really looks past that or what you're going to do on the ice or what your numbers are in those situations, we're just (indiscernible) on the game.   
   
 Q.   Patrick, when you first suffered the broken collarbone, looking back, how confident were you at that point that you would get back to this level that you're at right now?   Would you finally say you're 100%?   
PATRICK KANE:   Yeah, I mean, I was just kind of taking it a day at a time.   I didn't really think too far ahead when it happened.   Obviously it was tough when it happened at the time.   But, you know, the team did a great job of getting ourselves in a good position in the playoffs.   I didn't have to worry about doing too much when I came back from the injury.   
After those first couple games, I stopped kind of worrying about it, stopped thinking about it, feel pretty comfortable with where I'm at right now.   
   
 Q.   A couple of the Ducks players have said they don't think tomorrow is so much about X's and O's, it's about mental strength, who wants it more, will to win.   Do you guys agree with that?   
UNIDENTIFIED PLAYER:   Yeah, I think when you get to this point, everybody's done all their work all year.   We're almost in June now.   Neither coach has to reinvent anything or come up with anything special.   It's two good teams.   It's just going to come down to, you know, a good hockey game.   How it always ends, someone has to make a big play, whether it's defensively or in the neutral zone or offensive zone.   Sometimes they get overlooked.   Sometimes it's very obvious.   But just try to go up against the guy in front of you and try to make more plays than him somehow, some way.   That's what it's going to come down to tomorrow night.   
   
 Q.   Patrick and Jonathan, I don't want to get you guys in trouble with Joel.   But do you guys wish you were paired up a little more often?   Is there a different energy when you're on the ice together?   
UNIDENTIFIED PLAYER:   There's no doubt that we enjoy the opportunity to play together, having played together a lot throughout our career.   
But I think we understand to a certain degree the look or the lineup that our coaching staff wants to give our team, especially our forwards, by keeping them separate.   I think, you know, we try and go out there and make plays and create regardless who we're out there with.   
I've been very lucky to play with two great players, Saader and Hoss this year.   Obviously the same for Kaner with Richie and Bicks for the majority of recent games.   
I think when he makes changes like that, I think that's one change you resort to where it won't take us long to get off on the right foot, to pick up wherever we left off, however long ago we might have been playing together.   
   
 Q.   You guys always talk about getting a good start being important.   Given Anaheim's recent track record in Game 7s, is it particularly important to put that doubt in their minds early, play on those doubts that they have, never having won in a situation like this?   
UNIDENTIFIED PLAYER:   I think it's important for ourselves.   I don't think we'll talk much about Anaheim tomorrow, not because what kind of opponent they are, but we have to worry about ourself, getting a good start.   How they react, that's really up to them.   But we want to come out and be a lot better than we were in Game5 in this building in the first period because, you know, the odds are you're not going to come back from 2 and 3‑0 all the time.   
So we'll worry about us, you know, and keep pushing.   Hopefully at some point we get the advantage.   But that will be our focus.   
   
 Q.   Jonathan, you guys have scored more as the series has gone along here.   What do you think you guys have done offensively now that you maybe weren't doing at the beginning of the series?   
JONATHAN TOEWS:   I don't know.   I think there's moments where, you know, we're getting through their goaltending a little bit more, we're getting that shot in front of them.   I think it's just coming off of creating more chances and just retrieving the puck.   I think our work in the offensive zone has gotten better and better.   Our zone time has gotten better as well.   
There's no doubt we expect to have a big game tomorrow.   We got to continue that same effort by not giving him much, by not letting him see pucks.   
The goaltending has been great both ways in this series.   I think both teams have done a great job as far as creating offense.   We want to obviously gain the upper hand tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Patrick and Jonathan, a lot has been talked about Duncan Keith's conditioning.   That plays a big factor.   What do you think he has that's unique about him mentally?   As the responsibility goes up, the stakes rise.   He seems to flourish in those situations.   
UNIDENTIFIED PLAYER:   I think he's one of those guys that prepares as well as anyone.   He's obviously got the conditioning level, he can play a lot of minutes, he's a great hockey player.   I think he cares so much about the game, he wants to be the guy in those situations to be counted on, be relied upon to come through for the team.   
He's done it numerous time.   We know he's having a great playoffs.   He's been huge for us, especially in this round.   But it's kind of nothing we're not used to seeing from him.   He seems to do it every year.   Especially this year, he's been great in the playoffs, every play he's been a part of.   We're used to that with Dunks.   
   
 Q.   Jonathan and Patrick, Ryan Getzlaf a couple hours ago spoke about being a kid, dreaming about scoring the winning goal.   When you were kids, did that happen?   
UNIDENTIFIED PLAYER:   Yeah, I mean, Game 7 is one of those things you envision.   It's one of those things you dream about right along with hoisting the Stanley Cup, scoring that winning goal, all those things, whether it's the community rink or a backyard rink.   I think we've all had pretty similar experiences growing up with the game of hockey.   
You know, this is what it's all about.   I think you finally realize you've grown up, you've gone through a lot, worked hard to get to this level.   It's the ultimate challenge to see what you've got as a player.   Like Richie was saying earlier, it's a moment that we'll relish.   
You know, you try and will your way to win.   I think given all that, given that passion we have on our team, I think we're feeling pretty good about our chances tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Brad, are you watching tonight's game with any interest?   
BRAD RICHARDS:   It's strange to have two former teams playing against each other.   Obviously way more involved in our series.   
But it does have a different type of feel watching the Eastern Conference, two former teams playing.   You know a lot of people, for sure.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT