NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 31, 2010
Patrick Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: First question for Patrick? 

 Q. Patrick, some of the guys admitted after the fact in Game 1 that maybe they were a little nervous and that maybe led to some of the scrambly play. Do you think that will all be out of your systems tonight? 
 PATRICK KANE: Yeah, I hope so. I think it's the Stanley Cup Finals. A lot of us -- for a lot of us it's our first time here. So it's pretty exciting. I think you know, for myself personally, I wouldn't say I was nervous. 
 But I was maybe a little bit overexcited for the situation. I think you anticipate too much. So sometimes you go out there, you try to do too much, and it all backfires on you. I know I even said before the game that you can't do that, but it's one of those things you have to calm down and try to play our regular game. 

 Q. Do you expect the Flyers to play more nasty tonight? 
 PATRICK KANE: Yeah. I mean, I guess so. They are probably pretty mad at themselves. They scored five goals on the road and don't come up with the victory. 
 So I'm sure as the Series goes on, it will probably get a little more intense and the physicality will pick up a bit. But it seems like they're a pretty nasty team. I guess you expect it from them. 

 Q. You saw both goalies last game, Leighton starting today. How does that change things for you guys? 
 PATRICK KANE: Both are pretty good goaltenders. I think with Leighton, you look at a lot of the goals he scored, he didn't have a chance on a lot of them. If we can still keep making those plays and try to break down their defense, it should bode well for us. 
 At the same time, I think it's still more of the same. You have to get traffic in front of the guy. I know Boucher, he's been hurt. So with a guy like that, you want to move him side to side as we did on Kopecky's last goal. Against Leighton, he seems to be a pretty quick for a big guy. 
 So with a goalie like that, you keep getting traffic and keep making those plays, and we should have good shots. 

 Q. Patrick, they only have four D that are logging most of the minutes. Is the idea to wear them down, they don't go as deep as most teams would? 
 PATRICK KANE: Yeah, I think so. I think one of them got hurt last game and then I don't think one of the defenseman played many minutes. Like you said, they only had four defensemen pretty much going over other shift. I think Pronger played over 30 minutes. With a guy like that, you get down on their own end, they don't want to play. That's a big thing. Control the puck and make them chase you. Especially a big guy like that who's been around a while and playing lot of minutes. Hopefully you can tire him out. 
 With the other three, I think they're all really good defensemen. So at the same time they're logging a lot of minutes. Sometimes it's tougher against guys like that. If we can wear them down, get our big guys in and try to bang them as much as possible, that should be good for all the lines. 

 Q. Pat, did you guys do enough to control the puck enough to earn a power-play in the last game? Do you have to do that, do a little bit more of that? 
 PATRICK KANE: Yeah, I mean, if you look at our team, we love the puck possession game. A lot of our guys love controlling the puck and making plays, and that's the way we've played throughout the whole year. Any team we've pretty much played against we've outshot, we've outcontrolled the puck and different things. We want to do more of that, obviously. 
 I don't know if we did enough of that in Game 1. If you look at some of the plays, I mean, here and there, two of our defensemen got cut on sticks. Sometimes you are hoping for those calls. 
 But like you said, we probably have to do a little more to earn a power-play. To go a whole game without a power-play, I don't think that's realistic. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thanks a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT