NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 27, 2010
Patrick Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Question off Microphone).
 PATRICK KANE: Get this thing started tonight if we could. But I'll wait a couple more days and try to get ready.

 Q. A little bit of teasing here [indiscernible]?
 PATRICK KANE: I guess that's respect, hey? I don't know what that's about. But, hey, I'm sure I'll probably hear it from some of the guys, who knows. That's the way our team is. No one is ever serious anyways. Everyone is joking around with you. Ask someone a question, no one's going to give you a straight answer, no matter who it is, that's the way we are on the team.

 Q. Is this similar to the Olympics, the height and stuff, or different?
 PATRICK KANE: I think so. I think it's even bigger because it's not just one or two games or a whole tournament. You've got a whole seven games ahead of you and you've been in the Playoffs already, too, for a month or so now. 
 So it almost seems like it's even bigger. I think to be honest with you, something at the Olympics, I think you realize the opportunity you had. But this almost feels like it would be better to win this one.

 Q. Most people outside of Philadelphia have you guys as overwhelming favorites in this series. I'm sure you guys respect that, and would you rather go in as favorites or does it matter?
 PATRICK KANE: It doesn't matter at this point. The biggest thing for us is we're here. We feel we have a good team. I'm sure Philly feels the same way. Obviously they've been playing really good. And for them to get to this position they would have to be playing really good, especially the positions they've been in.
 They've had a roller coaster ride of a season whether it's the changing of a coach or being down 3-0 and then coming back. Or even making it this far to the Stanley Cup Playoffs. 
 So they're going to be a tough team. They're really similar to us in a lot of ways. They've got a lot of depth up front. They've got some big shooters back on defense and some guys that can shut you down, too.
 So I think it's going to bode really well for a really good series and really exciting, too.

 Q. Sharp played with a lot of these guys, came up with a lot of these guys. Has he been able to - played with Richards and a few others. Has he been able to fill you guys in a lot? I know you played them once, but it's a different situation. 
 PATRICK KANE: To be honest with you, we haven't studied too much of them yet. But we're going to do different things, whether it's power play, penalty kill. I know Sharpy will love nothing more than to win this series, especially against his own team guys like Eager, too. It's not just him. But I'm sure it's anyone. Even a guy like Leighton on their team, I know he was drafted by Chicago. And I'm sure he'd love to win against us.
 So I haven't been in that situation where I've had to play against my former team. But I'm sure it's something, every time you do, you want to beat them. 

 Q. How big is the magnitude of this [indiscernible]?
 PATRICK KANE: Right now it's setting in, to be honest with you. It almost feels like it's back at the All Star game in Montreal, when everyone had their little podium and a lot of media outlets around, too. 
 So it's a huge deal. Seems like it's bigger than the Olympics to me right now, to be honest with you. It's going to be a long series. 
 It's not just one game. And we look at our team, we're really excited about the guys we have. It's going to be exciting. How could it not be? The city's on fire. You walk around Chicago and everyone's rooting for the Blackhawks, everyone's expecting good things. So hopefully we can give it to them.

 Q. (Question off microphone). 
 PATRICK KANE: It doesn't look like that's going to happen. But I think those are pretty cool, obviously. Everyone has a lot of fun at those. And it's something you've got to do. It comes with the job, I guess. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT