NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v SHARKS
May 20, 2010
Patrick Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Tomorrow night, can you try to simplify your game at home?   
 PATRICK KANE: That's exactly what you have to do. Play it like it's a road game. We think our game has been simple. It's good for our team, I guess.   
 I think when you play simple, it seems like, you know, the show comes, to be honest with you. It's one of those things if you're doing all the right little things, all the big plays seem to happen. That's the way you have to play all the time. You can't think too much. You just got to go out there and play.   
 Every player has a role in here. Everyone has a certain thing to do. Especially when you're on home ice, we're going to get the matchups we want. At the same time, I think you still want to play a simplified game and make sure you're doing all the right things.   
  
  Q. How close are you to where you want to be? Couple wins you're in the final, do you think about that?   
 PATRICK KANE: Yeah, you do. It's tough not to. You really can't, to be honest with you. The biggest thing is to go out there and get ready for Game 3, take it one game at a time. Because every game is so important, it's 2-0 in the series, but if they win one, make it 2-1, it seems like it's a whole new series.   
 Going into Game 3, we feel it's a must-win situation. We know how good of a team they are and we can't give them any life.  
  
  Q. You have not been home since Game 5 in the Vancouver series.   
 PATRICK KANE: I know we haven't played at home since then, but I think going off of that game, it seems like we were in a good position. Probably did want to put on a little bit of a show for the fans. Weren't making simple plays. Were trying to do all the hard plays. That's something you can't do, especially playoff time. I think looking back on the game, you got to take advantage of home ice. It's a huge advantage in the playoffs, especially playing in this building. We want to make sure here we do our job at home.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT