BRIDGESTONE NHL WINTER CLASSIC 2009
January 1, 2009
Patrick Kane
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   FRANK BROWN: Questions for Patrick.   
  
  Q. Patrick, this is a two-part question. The first is: What were your thoughts while watching the Classic last year in Buffalo, and what were you thinking when you finally got out on the ice this year?  
 PATRICK KANE: It was a cool feeling. I think you go out and you see 45,000 fans screaming and yelling. It's a really cool feeling. I think just sitting on the bench and looking at the whole crowd, the whole atmosphere, it was really unreal.  
 It was like it wasn't really happening. It's one of those things really fun to be a part of. And just looking around, it was a really good feeling.  
  
  Q. Can you just talk about the disappointment of the loss and sort of what changed after the first period when they came on so strong?  
 PATRICK KANE: They're the best in the world. That's what they proved tonight. I think they're a team that can just take over when they want to. They have so much experience and so many great players that just seems like they can go on whenever they want and take over.   
 You see with games like, they beat the Sharks 6-0 this year, they beat us 4-0 the other night, and then they took it to us when we were up there. So we got to learn how to play against them. We're a young team and we have to learn how to play in those games, but that's why they're the best in the world.  
  
  Q. Pat, number one, how are you feeling? And were these last two games a reality check for you guys? Came in flying and then the Wings obviously, there they were again, the veteran, the leaders, the Stanley Cup champs. Was it a reality check?  
 PATRICK KANE: Yeah. First part of the question, I think I haven't had too many injuries in my career. So I've got to kind of learn how to play through the pain and through these kind of things it wasn't really a fun thing to deal with, but at the same time I guess you've got to learn. That's why hockey, it's a tough game.  
 And it's something for me to learn, I guess it was a different challenge for me. But I guess I have to fight through those things as time goes on. You're never going to be completely healthy in this game. So it was tough out there for me today, but the second part of the question, I guess you win 9 in a row and you come in against the Wings and pretty much handled us with ease except for the first period there, I think they scored five straight after it was 3-1. So that's why they're the best in the world and seems like they continue to keep proving that to everyone in the league.   
 So they've got a lot of great players. They're not fun to play against. They have the puck the whole game. And very, very hard game to play in sometimes. So it was a fun atmosphere. Awesome being at Wrigley in Chicago. I thought it was a great event, everything was great, including the ice. The ice was pretty good tonight.  
 Not too many complaints. Overall it was a fun day, and just have to learn how to win those games, I guess.  
  
  Q. Patrick, if you look at the big picture, how important do you think these kinds of events are for doing what the NHL needs to do to reach out to fans, to sell itself?  
 PATRICK KANE: I think it's great. I think to bring these kind of games into cities where the attendance is struggling, and I think it will definitely help the attendance a bit.  
 And you see the fans out there. They're all into it. They all seem to be excited with the game and everything.   
 After 3-1 the place seemed to be rocking. And the National Anthem was unbelievable today, too. So things like that are really fun to watch. And just looking around. You're playing a hockey game on a baseball field. It's a different experience.   
 It's probably a once-in-a-lifetime thing for some of us. And I definitely cherished it. If I could ever play in a game like that again I'd definitely love to. It was really cool being out there.  
  
  Q. Patrick, just to be specific, which ankle is it and how much is it affecting you? 75 percent? 60? 50?   
 PATRICK KANE: It's my left shoulder. Who told you it was the ankle?   
  
  Q. There you go. That's why I asked. (Laughter). Where are you at physically? Are you close to 100 percent or how much is it affecting you?  
 PATRICK KANE: I mean, it was one of those games you can't really pass up to play in. Once-in-a-lifetime experience to play in one of these games. Maybe, who knows. I wanted to get out there with all the atmosphere. Just being out there for practice and seeing the rink. You feel like you're skating on an open field. So something you really can't pass up.  
  
  Q. Do you guys worry about the way the Red Wings have been able to handle you; do you guys worry about them getting into your head, becoming a little psychological?  
 PATRICK KANE: You know what, it starts with confidence. Last year we were 5-3 against them. I think this year we started out is it 0-3 now? O-3-1. They seem to have our number this year.   
 I don't know, they're a great team. And we played them well last year. Things change, I guess. Hopefully it's one of those things where we can get them back in the playoffs or something like that. They can have what they want now, but they're a great team.   
 I think you look at their players over there, you see guys like Datsyuk, Hossa, Zetterberg, you see how they can just take over the game. They're fun to watch.  
 FRANK BROWN: Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT