NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
May 30, 2007
Karl Alzner
Keaton Ellerby
Sam Gagner
Patrick Kane
Kyle Turris
James Van Riemsdyk
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








  


   DAVID KEON:  Good afternoon, everyone.  I'm David Keon of the NHL's public relations department.  And I'd like to welcome you to the series of calls this afternoon that we're doing here.  We're in California, and we have with us six of the top prospects for the upcoming NHL entry draft.  At this time we have No. 2 ranked Patrick Kane with us, so we'll go right to questions. 

 Q.  Just wondering, going into this draft, do you feel if you were selected by the Blackhawks first overall that you would be ready to play in the NHL this year?  Or do you think you need maybe a year or two more? 
 PATRICK KANE:  Coming in, obviously, that would be my goal.  I know I have to work hard this summer and get stronger and have a good main camp.  But if they send me back to London, that's obviously a great place to play. 
 But coming into this year I definitely want to prove myself as a player and make the team right away. 

 Q.  What do you think you would need to work on in order to have a good camp and to make the team? 
 PATRICK KANE:  Like I said, my strength, just get stronger this summer and speed, and my defensive awareness, and I should be okay.  I think all my offensive tools are ready for the NHL right now.  But just those things to work on, things to keep in mind for this summer and I'm looking forward to work on it. 

 Q.  Patrick, your size seems to be the only issue, but that hasn't really hurt you in junior.  Do you think that that would be a factor in the NHL at all? 
 PATRICK KANE:  No, I don't think so.  When I'm on the ice, I never think of my size.  I just think of getting stronger, the points I need to work on.  But as far as my size, I don't think it should be a factor at all. 

 Q.  How would you feel about possibly playing in Chicago? 
 PATRICK KANE:  That would be great.  I know they have a lot of up-and-coming talent.  But skill these days, Seabrook and Parker and those guys, I think four or five years down the road they should be pushing for the Cup.  So it would be fun to be part of that process. 

 Q.  Normally the first pick overall wherever he goes, he's the focus of attention.  With Jonathan Toews also being in his first training camp this year, do you think that will take a little pressure off whoever goes to Chicago first overall? 
 PATRICK KANE:  I think so.  Toews is a great player.  I think for whoever gets picked there, it would be harder for them to kind of prove themselves, and I think it would be easier maybe playing with Toews because he's a great two-way forward and he should help you out. 

 Q.  Just wondering what you feel your biggest strength is that you're going to bring to the team that drafts you this coming summer? 
 PATRICK KANE:  I think my offensive ability, creating offensive opportunities for my team are definitely my biggest strengths. 

 Q.  And any weaknesses that you really want to focus on before training camp at the beginning of spring, end of summer here? 
 PATRICK KANE:  Yeah, my strength, working on my shots, being deadlier from all areas of the offensive zone and my skating as well. 

 Q.  Patrick, just wondering if you're going to have any feelings of pressure wherever you go, whether it be Chicago or any other team that's looking to draft you? 
 PATRICK KANE:  Obviously there's going to be some pressure coming into the NHL, I'm sure.  When I'm on the ice, just be another hockey game to play in, and the NHL is obviously the highest level you can get to.  But just being on the ice should be a fun experience to play in the league.  And I'll have more fun than nerves. 
 DAVID KEON:  We'll move on to James.  If anybody has any questions for James. 
 Q.  I guess the question that I'm going to have to ask all of you guys is, do you feel that right now whoever takes you, whether it's first overall or second or third or whatever, that you'd be ready to play in the NHL this year or do you think you need maybe another year or so to get yourself ready? 
 JAMES VANRIEMSDYK:  I think maybe I need a year or so to get bigger and stronger and to fine-tune my game a little more to make the jump to the next level. 

 Q.  Anything specific that you feel needs improvement? 
 JAMES VANRIEMSDYK:  Just strength and overall conditioning of my body and just keep paying attention to the details in the game like finishing checks and coming back hard on the back check and things like that. 

 Q.  What would it mean to you to be drafted first overall? 
 JAMES VANRIEMSDYK:  It would definitely be just quite an honor when you look back in history, see who's been taken first, big names and great players who have been taken first overall.  It would just be a thrill of a lifetime. 

 Q.  As somebody who grew up in the New York area, if Chicago did take you, how would you feel about that? 
 JAMES VANRIEMSDYK:  I'd still think it would be a thrill to play there.  The original six franchise.  They have a lot of history there, and they've got quite a few up-and-coming players now.  It should be a fun team to watch in the next couple of years. 
 DAVID KEON:  We're going to take questions for Keaton Ellerby now. 

 Q.  Keaton, I have a couple of questions for you.  I noticed that you were one of the prospects.  I think there's a few of you guys that have - are taking part in the NHL Connect thing on the NHL.com with the blog.  How involved in that are you and how has the experience been? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  It's been an unreal experience so far.  Brad Holland has been really interactive with us.  And I know there's a couple of other guys here this week that are part of that, too.  So it's been an unreal experience.  And I think it's going to be a great thing for the next couple of months, in the next couple of weeks as the draft approaches. 

 Q.  Is that something you think you'd like to take part in once you actually do make it to the league?  You guys are of a generation - let's just put it this way.  I don't think Chris Chelios has a MySpace page.  But do you think your generation of players are going to be involved in blogging and being more interactive with fans? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  Yes, definitely.  I think this kind of thing is an important thing for players and fans to connect I think on a little more of a personal level. 
 So as I get older and hopefully get into the league, I think I'd like to be a part of this and just continue to work with the NHL blogs and just keep doing this. 

 Q.  I saw somewhere that you're Shane Dowd's cousin.  Everything that's gone down with Shane over the last couple of months, what sort of perspective has that given you on the importance of the game and, say, Canada and just how quickly these sort of situations can develop if the wrong thing is said? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  Yeah, definitely.  I think the things that have been said and the things that have occurred over the last little while has really shown what kind of character Shane has. 
 And it's just stuff like that can come out of the blue.  And you just gotta battle through it.  You gotta just stay true to yourself, I think, and just like I said, just battle through it.  And everything has worked out fine for him.  He definitely helped Canada this past month in winning gold over in Russia. 
 So it shows his character and how much of strong character guy he is. 

 Q.  The way the chips might be unfolding, would you be excited to go to the Edmonton Oilers 6th overall? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  Definitely.  I have lots of family up around that area.  I think going to Edmonton would be a cool place.  Being from Calgary, I haven't really cheered for the Oilers, but I think it would be an awesome place to go and I think I'd love it there. 

 Q.  You had a pretty successful season with the Kamloops Blazers making the playoffs.  What are some of the things you look back on with the coaching staff and what they helped you with? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  The coaching staff was great.  They helped out a lot.  I think over my first three seasons, Dean Clark has definitely helped me turn into the defenseman that I am now and is continuing to help me.  So they've really been a strong - I don't know what the word is I'm looking for - influence on my career so far.  And I need to give lots of thanks to them. 

 Q.  I know that you had a lot of good things happen in Kamloops and you also got to play in the Canada/Russia challenge in September.  I believe you said at the time one of the neat things was playing with Kris Russell with Medicine Hats, can you tell us what that was like? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  That was awesome.  Obviously one of the best defensemen in the league and one of the smartest defensemen as well.  It was an awesome experience.  And a great time to play with him. 

 Q.  Who were you cheering for in the WHL Final, Vancouver or Medicine Hat? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  Well, being in the BC division and playing Vancouver so much, I'm not a huge fan of them.  So I was cheering for Medicine Hat.  But I'm excited for what happened in Vancouver.  And I got a pretty good friend in Tyson Sexsmith.  We grew up together, so I'm happy for him.  And I just want to congratulate their organization and some of the friends that I have on that team. 

 Q.  What's it like for a player watching a team like Vancouver and close rival win the Memorial Cup?  Does it make you more hungry to want to do the same? 
 KEATON ELLERBY:  Definitely.  Even in the season, we beat Vancouver seven out of eight times we played them.  So it's definitely something that just makes you want to work that much harder for next season to hopefully get an opportunity to play in the Memorial Cup and bring it back to Kamloops. 
 DAVID KEON:  We're going to move on.  Right now we'll take questions for Karl Alzner. 
 Q.  Karl, if you could be paired with any D man in the NHL in the upcoming draft or what team, who complements your style of play the best? 
 KARL ALZNER:  I think somebody who is pretty offensive, maybe like a Niedermayer, just because he - I can give him the puck and he can take it up the ice and he'll be the one to get me assists.  I think that I'm a guy that complements an offensive defenseman because I like to stay back in my zone and do the dirty work in the corners and give outlet passes. 
 So it helps a lot that he's my idol too, so I wouldn't mind being alongside him, too.  I'm sure there's other D-men in the league I would play well with if I got the opportunity.  But off the top of my head, he would be number one. 

 Q.  So I am interested in what you were thinking about when you played Medicine Hat and they beat you.  And you're from the Vancouver area.  So who are you cheering for during that playoff? 
 KARL ALZNER:  See, the thing with me since we lost to Medicine Hat I wanted to be able to tell people we lost to the Memorial Cup champions.  However, it didn't work out that way for me.  But I can also say, just like Ellerby said, is we beat Vancouver the two times we played them this year.  So either way it was a win-win situation for me.  I just wanted the Western League to take it. 
 So I'm happy for Vancouver.  I'm happy for all the guys on the team, and especially for Milan Lucic, who won the MVP.  He's a good buddy of mine from Burnaby. 

 Q.  Did it make you more hungry, too, for possibly going on that kind of run? 
 KARL ALZNER:  Well, yeah.  My first two years we both - we lost in Game 7 of the second round to then finally make it to the third round.  You notice just how much more intense it gets and how close the possibility of winning the Memorial Cup is and you just want to win it so bad. 
 So next year all the guys that are returning are going to try that much harder just to get a chance to feel the feeling that Vancouver felt. 

 Q.  Of course your focus was on the playoffs when you were in it.  But since now having a chance to think about the draft, what excitement level are you feeling right now?  Is this something that's on your mind a lot?  I know you tried to put it to the back of your mind when you're playing. 
 KARL ALZNER:  I think after everything we've done today, I think the excitement level is probably up to 10 out of 10.  I want to get the chance to see who kind of holds my future in their hands and what team is going to give me the opportunity to excel and to achieve my ultimate goal of playing in the NHL. 
 So I want to show well at the combine and just enjoy myself with all the experience that we're getting right now. 

 Q.  From here were the Canucks your favorite team? 
 KARL ALZNER:  To be honest, when I started out watching hockey, Toronto was because of my dad.  But as they years went on, I am a bigger Vancouver Canucks fan than Leaves fan now. 

 Q.  If it gets to that, you would be delighted? 
 KARL ALZNER:  I would be overjoyed.  I would love it so much.  All my friends and family could come watch me play. 

 Q.  Describe a bit more a little of the process and the combine, have you been through your interviews yet? 
 KARL ALZNER:  Yeah, we just actually got introduced to a bunch of the media that's here in town.  And it was cool.  It was interesting.  We were all six of us sitting on the front stage all by ourselves, us and Pierre McGuire, so it's nice to see the faces behind the words that we hear on TV and to actually see how they are in person, and the bright lights in our faces is kind of cool. 
 It's nice to see everything that happens behind the scenes. 

 Q.  A little different than the media coverage in Calgary? 
 KARL ALZNER:  A little bit.  I kind of went through it when they had the list that came out for World Junior trials.  I was the only one in Calgary at the time that was available.  I got to see kind of how it was here now.  And now it's a little bit bigger of a stage for kind of a different situation. 

 Q.  At what point growing up playing the game did you decide that you were going to be defensive defenseman? 
 KARL ALZNER:  It's kind of tough.  I think maybe in probably somewhere around novice when I realized everyone was a lot faster than I was.  And I could just kind of hang out in the back end there and just play solid defense. 
 And then as I got bigger and stronger and quicker, I realized I can jump into the rush, but I guess I'm just sticking to my roots and doing what I've been doing my whole hockey career. 
 DAVID KEON:  We'll take questions for Sam Gagner. 

 Q.  Just wondering, is there any real pressure you feel going into the draft right now? 
 SAM GAGNER:  No, I don't think so.  It's all just excitement.  I think throughout the year the draft's always in the back of your mind, but you try not to think about it too much and just focus on just playing and having fun.  And I think now coming here to the Stanley Cup Finals has been a great experience. 
 And it really hits you that the draft's coming up in a couple of weeks.  And it's just really exciting for everybody. 

 Q.  What do you look to do for whatever team that drafts you?  Do you look to make an immediate impact or are you going to sit back and try to learn the ropes a little bit? 
 SAM GAGNER:  Well, obviously, I'm just going to work as hard as I can to make it.  And whatever happens happens.  I don't think you can put too much pressure on yourself to make it right out of the gates.  But at the same time, you need to really push yourself to make it to that next level, and that's what I'm going to try to do. 

 Q.  You've been committed to the University of Wisconsin before deciding to go to play for the London Knights.  What do you think about the decision now as you're entering the draft?  Do you think you would have been this type of prospect had you gone to the University of Wisconsin? 
 SAM GAGNER:  I wouldn't have gone to the University of Wisconsin until next year.  But I really like my decision.  I thought it was a good decision for me.  But at the same time, University of Wisconsin would have been a great place to play. 
 The coaching staff there is awesome, and they got a lot of great players coming in there, and it would have been awesome.  But, you know, at the same time, I thought the London Knights were a great fit for me, and I enjoyed it this year.  And I thought it was a good decision. 
 DAVID KEON:  If there's no further questions for Sam, then our last guest is Kyle Turris. 

 Q.  Kyle, if you are selected first overall by the Blackhawks, do you think you can play this year in Chicago? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  I think I'm going to be going to Wisconsin next year.  And I need to get stronger and physically bigger before I think I'll be able to step into the NHL. 
 But I'll be taking it year by year and seeing how I develop and how much strength I put on and I'll also be listening to the NHL team to see what they think about my development. 

 Q.  You're pretty committed to going to college even if you're taken first overall and the Hawks say that they think you can play at this level next year? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  I think I'm going to need at least one year of college, yes. 

 Q.  You were, I think, fifth in the rankings at the midway point, now you've jumped up to number one in the second half.  What did you do - what was your game like that second half?  How did you raise that level, do you think? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  I kind of - my linemates and I had a chemistry going and we started to gel as the year progressed.  We like to finish the year stronger than we started it.  As the year came to the end, we turned it on going into the playoffs.  We just tried to play the best every night to help our team win anyway we could. 

 Q.  Anything specific you want to work on in the next year to get yourself ready for the NHL? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  Definitely I need to put on some weight and physical strength.  Those are two huge parts that I think are going to help me quite a bit going into Wisconsin.  And I'll also need to work on little stuff like face-offs. 

 Q.  Congratulations on the No. 1 ranking.  When you were mid-season 5th, were you surprised?  When that ranking came out, do you remember your emotion when you saw your name up top? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  I was shocked.  I couldn't believe it.  I still remember getting the phone call at school from my parents and them telling me that I was ranked No. 1 and my mom was screaming on the phone.  So it was pretty exciting.  But it was almost surreal at the time. 
 But you gotta remember:  it's just a piece of paper and everybody has their own opinion.  So each team has their own thoughts on who they're going to pick.  So it's pretty wide open right now. 

 Q.  By the way, speaking of parents - I know all the youngsters have had great families backing them - but your mom has been so dedicated and maybe you can talk a little bit about her.  I want to ask about your dad, too, who is a great Lacrosse player. 
 KYLE TURRIS:  Yeah, my mom has been very dedicated.  She's been phenomenal.  She's helped me so much.  She's been great as a nutritionist.  She's helped me so much in my diet, what I should be eating and all that sort of stuff.  And she's always supported me through the years. 
 And my dad's been great as well.  I wouldn't be here without those two.  And I think my parents have given me some genes.  Like my dad is a Hall of Fame Lacrosse player.  He's taught me a ton. 

 Q.  He was great Lacrosse player.  Did you play Lacrosse too or did you play? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  I did play until I was 14. 

 Q.  Did you find that helped?  I've talked to a lot of hockey players saying their Lacrosse background really helped them in the game.  What do you feel? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  Yeah, I definitely think it helped.  I mean, just working in the off-season in a different sport, little things like working on your hand-eye coordination and your work ethic and just little games we'd play that really helped and paid off in the long run. 

 Q.  I know you're committed to go to Wisconsin, but did you have any second thoughts when you watched Vancouver win the Memorial Cup?  You were Giants property, you had a chance to go to the Western League, when you saw that unfold, what was going through your mind? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  I didn't have any second thoughts whatsoever.  I know - I knew that I was very confident in the route I chose for myself, and I want to congratulate the Giants.  That was a great effort they put forward to win it all. 
 But I'm still extremely confident in my decision. 

 Q.  Kyle, just wondering, how well do you feel playing for the Burnaby Express and the BCHL has prepared you for the next step in your hockey career? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  I think it's helped a ton.  I've been fortunate to play under Rick Lanz who has been a great coach and has taught me many lessons, and I've been playing with some great teammates. 
 So I think I've learned a ton in my couple of years in Burnaby, and I've gained a lot of confidence that will help me in the long run. 

 Q.  Do you plan on - you're planning on playing for Wisconsin next year.  Do you think you'll play there the full four years or do you think there is a chance you'll make the transition to the NHL sooner if the opportunity presents itself? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  I'm just going to go in and take it year by year and see how I develop and also listen to the NHL team as to what they think, if they want me to come and play or not. 
 But I'm just going to take it year by year, and my ultimate goal is to play in the NHL.  So hopefully one day I'll be able to do that. 

 Q.  You've started everywhere you've been along the way, everybody dreams of scoring a winning goal in the Stanley Cup.  I never hear anybody talk about dreaming of being the No. 1 pick.  Did you ever think that it could be possible? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  I've been watching the draft since I was a young kid and seeing all these, turned out to be great players, superstars get drafted 1st overall.  So I never really thought about - I dreamt about it playing road hockey as I grew up but never thought of it as reality. 
 But the field's wide open right now.  So it's definitely going to be exciting come draft day. 

 Q.  I put my kid in Lacrosse this summer to help his hockey.  What a great game. 
 KYLE TURRIS:  Yes, it's a phenomenal game and it's so much fun and fast and keeps you in great shape. 

 Q.  Obviously you've been very, very clear about your intentions to go to Wisconsin no matter what.  How much of that - have you been wrapped up in that in any way because nobody has been the No. 1 pick and going to college.  Nobody knows what will happen or who will pick whom, but if it comes to that, Erik Johnson was the first person to play college hockey after being the No. 1 pick.  Does seeing him go that route make you any more secure in your determination to play at Wisconsin? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  I think it helps.  Seeing how he was drafted so high and 1st overall.  He went to Minnesota and decided to develop a bit more before he went on to the NHL.  I'm not saying I'm going to get drafted that high.  But if I get drafted pretty high, I'm still going to be going to college and hoping to develop into a better player and become more ready for the next step. 
 So it's going to be a huge step just going to college and let alone trying to make the step into the NHL. 

 Q.  What are you looking forward to most about Wisconsin? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  Playing the hockey.  It's going to be lots of fun.  And I'm really looking forward to it.  The education is going to be good as well, but I'm really looking forward to stepping on the ice in September, October. 

 Q.  What are some of your impressions of the - did you get a chance to see a game there when you were being recruited?  What were your impressions? 
 KYLE TURRIS:  The atmosphere is something I've never seen before.  It's out of this world.  It's incredible.  And I mean the facilities there, just like the NHL. 
 They average more than seven NHL teams in attendance.  They get treated real well.  The coaching staff is unbelievable in Mike Eaves and his assistance in Osiecki and Patrick, and, I mean, the campus is beautiful. 
 So all around I thought it was the best fit for me.  And I knew right away after I saw it I wanted to go there. 
 DAVID KEON:  Thank you very much, everyone, for joining us. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT