BNP PARIBAS MASTERS
November 2, 2012
Jerzy Janowicz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANOWICZ/J. Tipsarevic
  3‑6, 6‑1, 4‑1 [ret.] 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   So you have beaten four top 20 players in a row.   It's getting pretty easy.   
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I think yesterday I saved a match point, so it was not that easy.   Today, second and third set I just played the best tennis of my life.   I didn't know actually I can play that good.   
First set was a little bit nervous from my side.   I had like cold start a little bit.   But after this first set I just relax a little bit, and I did something magical.   I just played really like I can put every single ball in, and I'm in semifinal.   
It's really not easy for me to realize actually what is going on in my life right now.  
   
 Q.   Was it obvious to you before the medical timeout that something was not quite right with Janko?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Actually, I didn't think about this.   I just ‑‑I was playing really good this second and third set.   Actually, I didn't realize there is something wrong with him.   
He was basically playing the same tennis like in the first set.   I just start to play a little bit better, and, I don't know.   Maybe there was something wrong with him.   Actually maybe there was something wrong.   Maybe he was dizzy or had headache or whatever.  
But I just felt today on the court that during the second and third set unbelievable, and I felt like I can do everything that I want.   
   
 Q.   I think the crowd have got a bit of a new hero, but it will turn a little bit tomorrow when you play Gilles.   Do you think you're going to have to be a little bit mentally prepared in a slightly quieter atmosphere if you're doing what you did today again tomorrow against Simon?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Yeah, tomorrow I will play against French guy, but mentally I'm a really tough guy.   I remember in my match against Andy Murray in Great Britain during Davis Cup three years ago, so whole crowd was against me, over 5,000 people.   
Actually I didn't really care.   I just was focused on my game, and I hope I will be able to do same tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Last night did you manage to find sleep easily after beating Murray?   What time did you go to bed?   What about tonight?   Will that be easy for you to go to bed?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Yeah, I could sleep, no problem.   I slept very well two hours, so no problem to sleep whatsoever.   (Laughter.)  
I stayed on my computer for a few hours.   I just went to sleep at 5:00.   I just was not able to sleep this night, but as I can see, it doesn't matter if I sleep.   I don't eat.   Right now I'm playing best tennis of my life, and I hope tomorrow I can play even better.   
I don't know what I should expect from myself, but I hope I will not finish tomorrow this tournament yet.  
   
 Q.   You were emotional at the end of this match.   Can you explain what that means for you to be in the semifinal?   What is the feedback you had from family or sponsor or anything after your run here?   
JERZY JANOWICZ:   The semifinal is, as I said, is something unbelievable for me and for my family.   My family was crying after yesterday's match and after today's match.  
So this is unbelievable week for my whole family.   Maybe because of this win I will get some bigger sponsor because I was struggling beginning of this year and last year a little bit with the money.  
This year I didn't go to Australian Open because I just didn't have money to play this tournament, so I hope after this week my life will change a little bit, and actually it changed already.   (Laughter.)  
But I hope I will get some sponsors, and I will try to not think about the money for next year.   
   
 Q.   So you are in semifinal, Polish player.   Is it big news in your country?   How popular is tennis in your country?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I think right now it's very popular because of Radwanska sisters.   As you know, Agnieszka Radwanska, she's one of the best tennis players in the world.   She was in Wimbledon final.  
So because of her, tennis is really popular right now.   My colleagues, they told me after yesterday's match I'm in every single Polish TV, so I hope, because of me, also tennis will be even more popular.   
   
 Q.   You said obviously you played in Davis Cup with a 5,000 crowd against you.   You say you're very mentally tough.   Can you explain where that comes from, your mental toughness?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Actually, I don't know.   I don't know.   I don't know.   I just always ‑‑I was bad boy at the school, primary school.   High school I was fighting with everyone, with teachers.   I was really bad guy.   
Somehow it's really not easy for me to explain why I'm that kind of guy, why, for example, yesterday I played against Andy Murray and I didn't feel pressure at all.   I just was trying to play my best tennis.  
Actually, I don't know what I can tell you about me from that side.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT