WIMBLEDON
July 5, 2013
Jerzy Janowicz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/J. Janowicz
  6‑7, 6‑4, 6‑4, 6‑3 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Despite your disappointment, do you draw confidence from the way you played out there today?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Yeah, I'm a little bit disappointed.   Today I didn't play my best tennis.   I think this was second worst match during this tournament.   
Such a shame I didn't play my best tennis today.   I was struggling a little bit with my serve.   Everything basically collapsed after this one point when was 30‑All, third set, 4‑1 for me.   He did the tape.   The ball just roll over.   
But I'm still deep down really happy.   This was my first semifinal in Grand Slam, so tomorrow I'm going to be okay.  
   
 Q.   How did the break when the roof was closed affect you?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Not much.   As I said, little bit this match collapsed from this point when was 30‑All, 4‑1 for me, third set.   
This roof, not much.   
   
 Q.   What did you say to him after?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I don't feel like losing against runner up, so I wish him good luck.   
   
 Q.   You had a great couple of weeks here.   Can you go into a little more depth about it's always a process to get there and learn how to win these big matches as you get older.   Can you appreciate that, too?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Yeah, of course.   I get a lot of experience after this match.   I didn't expect before tournament I'm going to be able to go to semifinal.   
I'm still quite young player.   I have a lot of time.   I will just keep on practicing and I hope I will have a chance to be in the semifinal of Wimbledon again.   
We will see how it's going to be.   I could have played today a little bit better.   
   
 Q.   Andy Murray was pretty angry about the roof being closed when it was.   He said it was just because you were pressuring the umpire from 8:00 onwards.   What was your view of the situation?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   No, I had the conversation also with the umpire, and Andy was asking if they were going to put on the roof.   He was complaining it's really dark, so I don't know.   
   
 Q.   Did you want the roof closed earlier, then?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Yeah, yeah.   I asked already I think in the beginning of the third set or maybe right after the second set.   He was asking about the roof when it was 4‑1 for me.   
   
 Q.   What did you think about Murray complaining about it being shut?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I don't care.   
   
 Q.   Did you understand that he was angry about that being closed at that point in the game?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I don't care.   What I can do?   I care about myself.   I don't care if he was angry or not.   
   
 Q.   What did you do while the first semifinal was going so long?   How did it affect you waiting?   Were you watching the match?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Didn't affect me, I think.   I was waiting for my match many times.   I know it can happened.   Especially in semifinal when Del Potro and Djokovic are one of the best players in the world, it can happen.   It's quite normal.   I was just waiting for my match.   
   
 Q.   Andy Murray said during the interruption of play you looked pretty relaxed and you were speaking on the phone.   Can you tell us who you were speaking with?   Was it about the match?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   No, this is my private thing.   
   
 Q.   How good do you think you can be in the next few years?   You certainly have beaten the best players in the world and are getting better.   
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Honestly saying, I hate that kind of questions.   I don't know.   I'm practicing really hard.   You know how it is:   every single player wants to go as far as possible.   
With me is the same.   I'm just hoping one day I'll become top 10 in the world.   We will see how it's going to be.   
   
 Q.   I noticed at one point you hit the net with your racquet.   Looked like you were getting quite frustrated.   Do you find it quite hard to contain your frustration in a match that's not going your way?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   You know, if you have a chance to win the point and suddenly you are hitting the tape, sometimes it can happen.   
I was not frustrated at all.   This was just a single explosion.   After this I felt normally.   
   
 Q.   How did you cope with the Wimbledon crowd and the support they were giving Andy?   
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I was expecting this.   Yeah, is quite normal.   Everyone here wants Andy to win this Wimbledon, so I was prepared for this.   
But, you know, the crowd was helping him a lot.   But I know how is going to be, so I was not surprised.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell any difference in Andy as a player since Paris?   Is he the same or has he improved since you played?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I think is the same.   I think is the same.   I had my game plan.   I knew what he will try to do.   But is not easy to beat Andy if you are not playing your best tennis.   
I had my chances during this match.   I don't see really a big difference.   
   
 Q.   You looked pretty much in control until 4‑1 up in the third set.   Like you said, you had your game plan.   What went wrong after that?   Was it something in your head?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I told you what was wrong.   This ball, one ball, 4‑1.   This ball was roll over the net.   I was all the time attacking him during this rally.   I was really close to win this rally.   
He was lucky on this point.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   If you could put your days here this year at Wimbledon, express it in one word, what would that be?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Fun.  
   
 Q.   How so?   
JERZY JANOWICZ:   You just asked me about one word (smiling).   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT