WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2013
Jerzy Janowicz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 J. JANOWICZ/J. Melzer
  3‑6, 7‑6, 6‑4, 4‑6, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   It seemed to take you a while to get to grips with Jurgen's style.   A little bit of a slow start today.   
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Jurgen is a really not easy player.   On the beginning I had a problem with his left hand.   He has really not easy serve, especially because of the spin.   On grass, is even tougher to return left‑handers.   
But luckily I was able to take the second set.   I was still able to keep on fighting.   I think I should close the match in the fourth set.   I had the break.   I got maybe little bit nervous.   But luckily I was able to win this match.   
   
 Q.   Can you believe where you are now?   A year ago you were a qualifier.   You're ranked 22.   Must be a bit of a dream for you.   
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Yeah, it's unbelievable what is going on right now.   We have this moment two players in quarterfinal in men's draw.   Maybe in a few minutes we'll have a woman in the quarterfinals.   
I think this is by far the best what possibly could happen to Polish tennis.   
   
 Q.   What is the scene in your country for tennis?   Is there a lot of youth tennis going on?   How did you get into it?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I think right now tennis is a really famous sport in our country.   I hope we'll get still more fans.   
   
 Q.   Who did you grow up following?   Anybody from your country?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   No, no, not really.   No, no.   I was following little bit matches of Sampras.   Sampras was my idol.   I was always waiting for the matches against Andre Agassi.   So I didn't really have an idol in Poland at that time.   
   
 Q.   How do you get on with Lukasz?   What sort of relationship do you have?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   We are good friends.   We are Davis Cup team from two years, so we know each other pretty well.   That's it.   
   
 Q.   Funny stories about him?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   A lot of (smiling).   
   
 Q.   There's a story that you were offered Qatari citizenship at one stage.   Is there any truth to that at all?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Yeah, this was in 2006 when I won my first junior title in Saudi Arabia.   One guy came to me and talk about the situation.   I actually said straightaway no.  
   
 Q.   Why not?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Because.   
   
 Q.   Have you spoken to Lukasz?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Yeah, I went straightaway to his locker room.   We hugged.   We are happy.   
   
 Q.   Any banter or jokes flying around?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Not really, no.   We are just happy.   I congratulate him.   I think both we are happy because what is going on right now.   I mean, is magical.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell us how much more comfortable you feel on the grass than when the tournament started last week?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Honestly saying today I didn't feel perfectly.   I slipped really badly few times during this match.   I think this Court 12 is unplayable.   Was really bad conditions today.   
If I have to compare this court to Centre Court, it's completely different story.   The surface today was awful for me.   So many bad bounces.   As I said before, I slipped four times.   This doesn't happen to me too often.   
Today I didn't play my best tennis, for sure.   So I'm even more happy because I was able to win the match without my best tennis.   
   
 Q.   How well, if at all, do you know the Radwanskas?   And did seeing Agnieszka make the final here make an impression on you?   
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I think there's no point to really compare men's tennis to women's tennis.   She made the final.   I was happy for her.   But this was not showing me like I can do it in men's.   It's completely different story in men's.   
But I was so happy for her.   I was cheering for her all the time.   I hope she can do it one more time.   I think she's on the way to win this Wimbledon this year.   
   
 Q.   What do you think of Lukasz's dance routine at the end of the match?   Have you not seen it?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I have seen it many times, but not after this match.   
   
 Q.   What do you think about it?   Have you ever thought about doing anything like that?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Everyone is doing whatever.   If he likes to do a can‑can, he can do it.   If it's celebration, he can do whatever he wants.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about how your life changed since Paris last year?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I gave answer to this question about 58 times.   
   
 Q.   About the prospects of playing Andy Murray in the semifinals, is that in the back of your mind?  
JERZY JANOWICZ:   No, no, no.   I still have one match to go.   As I said before, the most important is to be focused before every single match.   We're still far away from semis.   
One match to go, but really tough match.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT