WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2013
Jerzy Janowicz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. JANOWICZ/N. Almagro
  7‑6, 6‑3, 6‑4

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   The Centre Court crowd seemed to take to you quite warmly today.   They seemed to like you. 
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Yeah, I think they enjoyed the match.   I don't know, I don't like to talk about myself.   But I hope they like me, and I hope I have a chance to play one more match on the Centre Court. 

Q.   When you saw the order of play, saw you were going to be on Centre Court, what did you think?
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I was happy because I knew I will play for sure, even if it's going to rain (smiling). 

Q.   You seem to be very relaxed.   You were still warming up when Laura Robson's match was already over.   You need very little preparation or how do you approach those matches? 
JERZY JANOWICZ:   It's quite simple for me.   I just have to hit 20 minutes before the match.   Nothing special.   After 20 minutes' warmup, small running, I'm ready to play. 

Q.   I think one of your serves today was measured at 140 miles an hour, which is the quickest in the tournament so far. 
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I don't know. 

Q.   It's clearly a weapon even on the slower grass courts. 
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I guess so. 

Q.   Do you feel comfortable on grass? 
JERZY JANOWICZ:   You know, the biggest problem with grass is I don't have a chance to practice on grass because we don't have any grass courts in Poland. 
So during one year I have only basically three weeks' possibility to play on grass.   So I have to like it somehow. 
But I rather to play on clay court or hard court because simply I'm used to it, yeah. 
But with my game, I think grass suits me well. 

Q.   There's been a lot of casualties.   People don't want to look too far ahead.   There's a realistic path for you to go a very long way now. 
JERZY JANOWICZ:   I don't like to think like this.   Right now I made the best result in my career in Grand Slam.   I'm in fourth round.   So I rather to be focused all the time. 
Jurgen Melzer is waiting for me in next match.   So right now I'm thinking only about this match. 

Q.   For a long time Polish tennis was mostly associated to Fibak, the Radwanska sisters.   Now you're coming, Kubot, doubles players a lot.   Do you have an explanation as to why so much is coming from Polish tennis right now?
JERZY JANOWICZ:   Not really.   I don't really have explanation.   I don't know.   Everything starts from Radwanska, honestly saying.   Maybe we realized there's a chance to make some good results in tennis in Poland. 
We didn't have unbelievable facilities for practice.   I remember when I was practicing during the winter under the balloon was even minus 10 inside. 
I remember the beginning was not easy.   So I don't know actually.   I don't have a perfect explanation.   But I'm happy there's a lot of good players in Poland right now.   As you said, Radwanska sisters, me, Kubot.   Przysiezny lost yesterday in second round.   So I hope it's going to be only better. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT