U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 30, 2001
Jim Colbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JIM COLBERT:  I've been missing fairways.  The only shot I hit that I really didn't like was on the first hole.  I hit a 3-wood off the tee and I then I hit it a little too hard and went over the green and made a bogey.  I parred the 5th.  I made a birdie at 6.  I made a 10-footer.  I like to give them a lot of room and let them break.  They're all stopping short on the downhill side.  My memory is killing me.  This is by far the hardest greens I've played because they are very, very hard.  It's tough if you are chipping or -- the bounce is pretty big, but then the roll isn't that great in putting.  The undulations of the green, they've had some great pin placements in there, so there's a lot of break around the hole.  It's all feel.  I've just left so many of them short I make myself sick.  I was just making a bunch of pars and all of a sudden I hit a driver, 3-wood about 10 feet short of the 14th green and I putted it and it went in the hole for an eagle.  The next hole was playing into the wind.  I needed a 5-wood from 222, hit it to about four feet and made a 2.  So I go 3-2.  That put me 3-under for the day.  Then I drove it in the fairway at 16 and only had about 120 yards to the hole. 
 
Q.  Do you think your mark is still there?
 
JIM COLBERT:  I don't know if my mark is still there, but I know where the ball is.  We paced it off. 
 
Q.  Talk about having to come off the course when you're playing so well, is that frustrating for you?
 
JIM COLBERT:  Well, you know I've played too long to worry about it one way or the other.  Obviously everybody likes to finish whatever round you start.  Me and the other 14, 13 guys out there, playing at 7:00 in the morning, no fun.  The fact that -- the part that you like about 7 a.m., the part that you don't like about playing at 7 a.m., you don't understand, we're last, here you are playing at 7:00, and they re-pair and you've got a late time. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT