U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 1999
Jim Colbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JIM COLBERT: I made six birdies.  One put was twelve feet, and the other five were gimmees.  Next longest one was three feet.  I didn't putt bad, just it wouldn't go in.  Like the last one, I couldn't miss in a 100 years.  But that was the highest score I could have shot, but it was fun to play.  It was one of the reasons I never won the Open on the other circuit is I couldn't drive in the fairway enough.  So I mean, I really have driven that ball the last couple of days.  It is fun.  I am obviously a much better driver now.


Q.  How many fairways did you hit today?

JIM COLBERT:  I think I was in the -- I was in the rough at 7 and I made a bogey, the rough cuts back on the right side, it is into the wind, a little short hole, I've been hitting either 5-wood or 3-wood - I hit a driver and rolled down jumped into the rough under the tree and had to pitch up to the right of the green under the tree and I -- I hit an absolute chip; missed about four five-footer for par there.  Then I missed the green at -- fairway at 16.  Hit 3-wood laying up to those traps, was 260, but that wind is really blowing, hit a 3-wood; hit it past the traps up in the rough.  But ended up with about an 8-footer for birdie, or 6- or 7-footer down the hill; missed it.  I think it is the only two fairways I missed.


Q.  How about the lip-out on 17 and 18?

JIM COLBERT:  Not 17.  I missed it at 16 and 18.  Rest of them, you know, I guess the second putt at 11 was maybe five feet, but it was straight up the hill.  I had an eagle putt coming down the hill from about 30 feet.  Rest of them were just gimmees.


Q.  13?

JIM COLBERT:  13, I have been hitting 3-iron at that hole.  That wind switched and I drove that thing so far down there I was standing on my head way down the fairway, only had 150 to the hole; 123 to the front.  But, boy, that slope is just -- it is like a ski slope down there, so I tried -- you can't feel the wind as hard as it is blowing, but I should have -- to drive it there, it had to be blowing, so I tried to chip an 8-iron, 123 yards to the front.  But the pin is way back left.  So I was just going to try to chip it up there and not swing harder with a 9-iron or something.  I hit a great looking little shot but it had no chance.  Hell, that green goes like this.  It hit on that slope one bounce under a tree back there; hit it pretty good, little scrape out under the tree and I missed about a 15-footer.


Q.  Was the wind stronger today?

JIM COLBERT:  Wind is dead opposite; not quite as strong, just the dead opposite which makes it kind of challenging because you are just not comfortable with the club selections.  You know how those up-and-down hills have been playing with the wind blowing in the other direction, but now you just don't know and -- but the greens are still a lot softer than I thought they would be  today.


Q.  (inaudible)

JIM COLBERT:  You are into the wind at 5 off the tee.  I Hit it down; then shot over the trees; I put it about two feet. It was less than two feet from the hole.  Then 6 is dead downwind.  I mean, those holes, I hit 8-irons at both of them.  I knocked it over a little bit over the 4th hole in two, the par 5; then wind is just a dead opposite, I have been hitting drivers, 3-wood and 9-iron there.


Q.  Where was the 12-foot birdie putt?

JIM COLBERT:  On 14, the 3-par.  That was probably about ten or twelve feet.


Q.  Everything else is inside of 5?

JIM COLBERT:  They were all gimmees.  They just were.


Q.  Besides 12 shots, what is the difference between Thursday and Friday?

JIM COLBERT:  Thursday I wasted nine shots on the greens or around them.  I couldn't make it from a foot.  And, of course, it was -- by far the toughest day to play was Thursday afternoon. I mean, it was really difficult.  And I played about the same.  I really played quite well, but I mean, I couldn't make it from two feet.  I think I had three 3-putts and never made one putt.


Q.  The greens are softer today?

JIM COLBERT:  Softer than I thought they would be.  They have speeded them up a little bit.  But they were still -- a little softer than I thought they would be.


Q.  How do you feel about your position right now?

JIM COLBERT:  Who knows, they are still out on the front nine.


Q.  6 is leading.

JIM COLBERT:  Well, I don't know.  I just -- just feels good not to put so much pressure on my putter, but I putted good -- I mean, I rolled it .  But I am happy with the way I played.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT