ENERGIZER SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 9, 1996
Jim Colbert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JIM COLBERT:  Yeah.  Technically, I didn't 3-putt.  I was just short of the green, but I putted.  The greens were much faster today.  Must have rolled them.  Looked like they had the same grass on them, but I putted it twelve feet by.  As a matter of fact, I made about a 3-footer for my third putt.  Then I parred around.  I made a good putt at the fifth hole, the par 3, hit a 6-iron in there and made about a 20-footer for 2.  And then hit a weak drive at 7 over in the right rough; had to slice it around the trees; put it in the bunker. Didn't get it up-and-down.  11, I hit it left side of the fairway.  Caught a real thin line on the downslope; hit a 5-iron; wind got on top of it.  I didn't think it was going to get over the bunker but it did.  It went over the green.  I chipped it in. 

JIM COLBERT:  40 feet, probably.  35.  I parred around to 17 and 18.  I missed a bunch of putts and then I made a bad one - mistake.  I should have hit a knockdown shot down there, but you couldn't feel the wind. Wasn't blowing very hard.  It didn't do much to Charles' ball so I decided to hit a normal 4-iron and hit it right at the hole, thinking I could make a 2 or something.  Hole has been pretty good to me.  Hit a hard four but it just -- it balooned, the wind got it and it just -- spun (sic) itself going up and I didn't get it up-and down out of the bunker.  18, I hit a really good drive.  God, I just thought I holed my second shot.  Somehow hit it short of the hole and about a foot from the left bunker.  I was chipping the ball, was neck high.  I couldn't get a stance, so I had to get down in the bunker; tried to chip with a 5-iron and I chipped it too hard and missed the putt.  But, basically, I played okay.  Played decent.  I didn't play as well as I played yesterday, but I played pretty good.  My putter was cold today.  I didn't feel like I was putting bad, but I didn't make anything.  Missed some birdie putts -- just was frustrating.  I just didn't putt well.  Never did get the speed exactly right.


Q.  Were you watching to see what was going on with Hale? 

JIM COLBERT:  Well, you couldn't see for a long time. I mean, they didn't have that-- they usually just have the leaders and the Grand Masters and I saw somewhere on the back 9 that he was 2-over.  I think I only saw that once and then I saw it on 18 that he was 2-over.  I saw it on 13,- I think it was. They have a scoreboard up on the par 5 up on the left. Because, you know, usually they just have the two leaders up, so..... A lot of work to do tomorrow.  9, 6...


Q.  Were you looking to see where he was, though?  Was it on your mind today?

JIM COLBERT:  Well, I was wondering.  I mean, I knew where he wasn't, you know, he wasn't under par because, you know, they had those.  And a lot of times I'd see down to 2-under or 1-under and that -- I knew that.  And that was.  I am sure it was 13 when I saw that he was 2-over and then I saw it again at 18 on the board and, so, we both got a lot of work to do tomorrow.


Q.  Do you feel like you will be playing two tournaments tomorrow, in a sense, both against him and also --

JIM COLBERT:  I haven't figured it out.  I just know if I won, it would be okay.  I really don't want to know the rest of it.  It is a hard golf course.  A lot can happen. Obviously, I need to play a really good round tomorrow to have any chance of winning the tournament.  I don't know how many guys are ahead of me.  Bunch of 3s. 

JIM COLBERT:  I bogeyed the last two holes, so two -- somewhere in the top 10, but there is lot of 3s and just a couple of 4s and a 6 and a 9, so..... We -- to get all the way there, it is going to be -- I am going to have to play a pretty decent round, but if I played like I played yesterday and made some putts, that could happen.  I feel fine putting, I just haven't made any.

JIM COLBERT:  Yeah, you know, the number isn't as important as where they are from.


Q.  Knowing what happened here the last two years, where guys had, yourself included, a 6-shot lead going into the final round; do you feel like it is within your capabilities, not only playing well, but catching Jay tomorrow?

JIM COLBERT:  Well, I mean, anything is possible.  I know when I had the 6-shot lead I knew it was sure as hell possible that somebody could catch me.  I could say it that way.


Q.  What do you think of 9-under in conditions like this today?

JIM COLBERT:  Yeah, that is a heck of a round he has got going.  I noticed -- I was looking on 18.  He made a birdie, eagle, all the rest pars he made.   That is awfully steady with the wind doing what it is doing.  It's just awfully  hard to figure out.  I mean, like on 18, you know, I asked, "what do you think I ought to hit?"  He said, "where is the wind?"  I said, "hell, if I knew where the wind was, I would know what to hit.  I thought maybe you might know."  It was all over the place; fooled me bad at 17.  Fooled me bad at 12.  I am standing there posing at 12 and I barely got to the bunker fronting the green.


Q.  Did that affect the speed on the greens for you?  Is that why you had a problem a little bit with the speed?

JIM COLBERT:  They were faster today and they had the same amount of grass on them.  My guess is they rolled them, but I doubt that they rolled the putting green.  It was different.  Usually the putting green is faster than your greens on the golf course.  You get so much wear on the putting green, it is usually faster.  And the putting green was about the same as it was.  First few greens were, whoo, they were much faster.


Q.  You seem a little bit tired.  Has the wind worn you down?

JIM COLBERT:  Those two bogeys wore me down, the last two holes.  I am a little frustrated right this second, because I played well enough to shoot 70.  70 would have been a decent round and I had it in position to shoot 70.  I didn't have it in position to shoot 67 or anything like that, but I had it in position to shoot 70.  And I just need to putt a little  better.  I am putting okay.  It is not something I need to go work on.  Just got to get them in.


Q.  Are you surprised by the problems Hale is having with the course?

JIM COLBERT:  Well, his putter went a little cold yesterday.  I mean, he didn't play obviously as well as he played the first round, but nobody plays that great everyday, but his putter was cold yesterday.  I mean, he certainly played a par round or better and shot over par and I have no idea what he did today.  I mean I know what he shot, but -- I know from the score what he shot, but I don't know how he shot it.  You always have to putt to contend.  Figure that out tomorrow.


Q.  With Jay at 9-under, how many people would you say are still in contention to catch him, what scores?

JIM COLBERT:  That depends on what Jay shoots.  I mean, really.  It is in his hands.  I mean, if he breaks par tomorrow, is he in good shape or is he in good shape, right? And so I mean, it is in his hands.  I see Bob Charles here. Bob played terrific today.

JIM COLBERT:  Guys I hope to see you tomorrow.  Play hard.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT