AUGUSTA NATIONAL WOMEN'S AMATEUR
April 6, 2019
Kaitlyn Papp
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Can you talk about your day today?
KAITLYN PAPP: It was unreal.  I've never seen crowds this big besides watching a professional golf tournament on TV.  It was a really big statement for all these people to come out and watch women's amateur golf.
Q. What was the whole feeling like here at Augusta National?
KAITLYN PAPP: It was like surreal.  For a while, you kind of like -- you couldn't really accept the fact that you are playing at Augusta.  It didn't really hit you until probably the 18th hole.
Q. Last time I checked, you were top three?
KAITLYN PAPP: I think I'm T-5.
Q. How is that, contending at this tournament?
KAITLYN PAPP: I think it's a great finish for how high the calibre of field this was, the world's best players, a couple girls at the top about to turn pro; they have their tour cards.  I think to finish top five, I'm really proud of myself.
Q. What does an event like this do for women's golf as a whole?
KAITLYN PAPP: I feel like it really grows awareness and appreciation for women's golf, not only at the professional level but the amateur level because we're all pretty close to that next level.  I feel like it's a really cool thing for the world to pay attention to.
Q. Talking to Grant Beck, your old swing coach, he was saying how you would go in the cold rain, numb fingers.  Can you just talk about your dedication?
KAITLYN PAPP: Yeah, I feel like most of the time, I go out in all kinds of weather.  Obviously if it's snowing or sleeting, I don't go out.  But when I was younger, I went out and played in the cold.  My lips were blue when I got home.  I guess I just kind of grew up like in all kind of elements.
Q. Your mom said you went to an LPGA Tour event when you were like ten and you looked around, and you're like, I want to do this.  Can you touch on that moment?  What was the turning point?
KAITLYN PAPP: I think I had taken a few lessons prior to going to an LPGA tournament.  It was in Williamsburg, Virginia.  When I saw them playing a tournament, I was like, this was so cool, watching a tournament.  I think that inspired me in the beginning.
Q. Today what parts of your game were on?
KAITLYN PAPP: For the most part my irons were pretty good.  I just had a couple putts out there that didn't drop but overall, I think I put a good effort and had a couple errant shots here and there but overall pretty good.
Q. What's it like to be a role model for some of the fans?  One of the fans told me she's out here to watch you because you're care free?
KAITLYN PAPP: That's really cool.  I feel like it's a big honor for an athlete is to be someone younger people look up to, so I feel like that's a really cool honor.
Q. Grant beck was saying how fluid your swing is.  It doesn't look like you put a lot of effort but the swing speed is really good.  Can you just talk about your swing a little bit?
KAITLYN PAPP: I feel like over the years, I've just tried to get it technically as correct as I can to get the most power because I'm not a big person.  So I feel like working on mechanical stuff has helped me hit the ball where I can today.
Q. The nonchalant attitude, strolling around the course, how do you stay so calm?
KAITLYN PAPP: You just have to convince yourself.  I feel like I try to do this every tournament, stay as calm as possible, not get too high or too low.  So I feel like if you try to stay even keel, that's the best way to go about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT