SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 23, 2015
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I honestly don't know the answer to this question:  Are you happy or disappointed with your round today?
NICK WATNEY: At the moment, I'm a little disappointed.  You know, I played really nicely and then I think we just misjudged the wind there on 16.  The shot was going -- it was going right.  It was on a really good line, but unfortunately came up a little short, and that's the only place you can't go there.  Right at this moment I'm a little disappointed with the finish, but it's only Friday, and overall I'm in good shape.  I'm looking forward to the weekend.
Q. At 17 you just caught a gust of wind that just knocked the ball down, and you cleared the hazard and just bounced back into it.
NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I mean, it looked great from where I was standing, but you know, obviously it wasn't the best shot.  But like I said, I played really nicely, and I'm in good shape, so no complaints.
Q. Let's talk about the good thing and the four birdies in a row.  That was quite a run.
NICK WATNEY: Yeah, the 12th hole, especially with the wind off the left there, it's tough to get close to that pin and hit two really good shots, and I was able to roll something in.  The next three holes, you think you can make birdies there.  It's nice to do it, but it's kind of a point in the golf course that you can score.  Like I said, overall it was a good day, just a little bitter of a finish.
Q. I thought the wind came up in the middle of your back nine and it was a tough wind to judge.
NICK WATNEY: It was a little tricky.  It kind of shifted a lot, especially on 16 there.
But if the guys -- the scores are a little higher than I anticipated around here.  You know, usually the cut, I think, is going the other direction.  It's going higher.  Normally that doesn't happen here.  So it must be a little tricky out there.
Q. I'd imagine you can hit a shot and no one can catch it while it's in mid-air.
NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I guess it just depends on what shot it is.  If it's 16, the shot over water, it can be pretty penalizing, and so it's just -- I guess there's a little bit of guesswork or luck involved.  But for the most part, you know, it just depends on if your ball is in the air when it shifts a little bit.  If it is, there's not much you can do about it.
Q. Is your game pretty close to where you want it to be?  I know it's been a long haul back from a couple years ago when you were struggling.  Do you feel like you're almost there or are you there?
NICK WATNEY: Well, you know, I don't know if you're ever there in this game.  You know, I'm enjoying myself.  I feel like I'm getting better, and that's the goal, you know, to always be getting better.
I hope that my best golf isn't behind me.
Q. Where are you better than you were two years ago when we think back to you having that tough year?
NICK WATNEY: Well, in pretty much every way, really.
Q. What about maybe in the last six months, eight months?
NICK WATNEY: Well, a huge factor for me, my putter kind of can make or break me, so that's why I'd like to get more consistent.  Today was a pretty good day, so I got two more days to kind of -- like I said, to try to get better, and hopefully when I'm -- I really want to make a putt, that's when sometimes it's the hardest to make them.  But hopefully they'll go in.
Q. What happened on the par-3?  Was there any kind of carryover effect after that first bogey?
NICK WATNEY: No, it's a hard shot.  There was wind off the left, obviously water to the left.  It was just a hard shot.  I hit it pretty close, and it caught the bunker there.  It's easy to make a bogey on that hole with no wind, and you throw a little wind off the left there, it makes it even more difficult.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT