THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 15, 2011
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Lot of good, some bad, huh? 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I feel like I gave away a lot of shots. Obviously, the first day was really good, but from then on, exactly what you said. Lot of g some bad, and I came up a couple short.

 Q. On 14, you'll look back as the killer, the 5 on that hole?
 NICK WATNEY: Geez, I didn't even realize it until you said that. But, yeah, 14, I finally got a ball on the fairway and still made a bogey, so, I don't know. I'll try again next year, I guess.

 Q. The disappointment is less dramatic than the PGA? Is it more disappointing than winning a big event? 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, it's definitely disappointing. I was right there within a couple shots of the lead. I played 16 1-over as well. So disappointing right now, but I think when I look back for me to be disappointed with fourth is not a bad thing.

 Q. You got off to a good start, obviously. Where did things go the other direction? Were you fighting it all day? Was there something you can pinpoint? 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, bogeying No. 8 was kind of a momentum killer, and then 14 again, I was 11-under and drove it perfect. Had a good club in, but just hit it right at the green in a bad spot. Those are the two things that sticks out right now.

 Q. There wasn't anything that you felt in your game? 
 NICK WATNEY: That was off? 

 Q. Yeah. 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I didn't hit a lot of greens coming down the stretch. But that wasn't necessarily -- I felt like it was tricky out there. The wind would blow in, and then it would blow sideways. I felt like there were some tricky clubs to pull. But overall, I'm pleased with my game. I just couldn't quite get it going today.

 Q. What did you do -- you had a rough finish in the morning, and then to come out and go birdie-birdie-birdie, how did you let that go? What did you do between rounds? 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I just kind of figured if someone told me I'd be three shots back going into the final round, I'd take that every week. Then I got off to a nice start, so I was right back in the tournament. 
 I think it's just the game. I made a couple of bad swings, and this course is a train wreck waiting to happen around every corner. I just tried to let it go, and still had 18 to go.

 Q. Having won at Doral, did you feel like once you got in contention here, trying to win would be easier than it had been before? 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I feel like it's never easy. But I thought I would know how to handle myself. Overall, you know, even though I didn't win, I could have lost a couple shots coming down the stretch there. So I'm pleased with the way I hung in when I didn't have my best stuff.

 Q. The mental and physical aspect of the long day and the stopping and starting over the last two days, can you address that? Was there a point you got tired or was it more mentally taxing? 
 NICK WATNEY: I would say that when you're in the hunt like that, there is a lot of adrenaline. I never really felt tired. I might feel tired later. It was more running on adrenaline than anything else.

 Q. What is the hardest thing about this golf course? 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I guess just there's no breaks. 16's even an easy hole, and I managed to have a 4-footer for par. There is just no -- you don't get a break. The swales and the water hazard if you hit it too far off line. That is the hard part. There is always trouble lurking.

 Q. Is it more tiring because there are so many do-or-die shots where you can make birdie or double so easily? Such a fine line. 
 NICK WATNEY: I think you definitely need to have your best stuff mentally, but hopefully we're focusing on every shot at every course. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT