THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
May 13, 2011
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Are you happy right now?   
 NICK WATNEY: I'm not exactly happy. I felt like I let quite a few get away out there, but I guess that's just the game. And I'll try to work on it today and maybe I'm saving it for the weekend.  
  
  Q. Course playing a lot tougher today than it did yesterday for you?   
 NICK WATNEY: Well, we got the wind this afternoon. It makes it a little bit trickier. I think, as predicted, the greens will firm up as the rounds go on. I think a low score will be earned this weekend.  
  
  Q. Assuming no rain, it's going to be tough for somebody to maybe make a big move; isn't it?   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I mean, I guess it all depends on how they set the pins, but, yeah, I think it will be fairly difficult to shoot really low.  
  
  Q. Talk about 11, what kind of break that was?   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, that was a huge break. If it takes a bounce, it's going into the heavy rough. And who knows what lie you're going to get over there on those mounds.   
 I can't believe it. I mean, I would have lost a lot of money had I bet on a ball plugging or not today. But it was a great break. I got to drop in the semi-rough and actually took advantage of it.  
  
  Q. It seems in the big tournaments your game rises to a different level in the majors and players as well? You're still young, but...  
 NICK WATNEY: They definitely get my juices flowing. Not that I don't enjoy every event on the TOUR, but I really like the World Golf and THE PLAYERS and the majors, for sure.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible)?  
 NICK WATNEY: There was a decent amount. I had a rules official there. It was totally legit. (Laughing).  
  
  Q. What would have been worse? Trying to hit off that lie with that much mud or --  
 NICK WATNEY: Obviously, if it would have come out on a pitch mark it would have been the worst, I guess. It would have been in the rough and muddy. It was a great break.  
  
  Q. Also on 15, were you on a divot?   
 NICK WATNEY: 15, I was in a divot, and I was able to spin it out of the rough. Unfortunately, I didn't take advantage of that one, so hopefully the good breaks continue.  
  
  Q. How did being in that field at Doral and being in it at PGA and stuff, you earned to get in this kind of event, is that what's coming about for you now?   
 NICK WATNEY: Definitely. The PGA left a horrible taste in my mouth, and in the off-season I really made it a goal to try to get in contention as much as I could and get that feeling back again and do better.   
 I'm excited where I am through two days, and we've got a long way to go. But hopefully I can keep playing well.  
  
  Q. You excited about the Kings staying for a year at least?   
 NICK WATNEY: I'm glad they're staying, definitely. I hope we can start filling that stadium up and maybe bring in a few free agents. But it's better that they're staying.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT