TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 19, 2011
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obviously a difference between 72 and 65.   
 NICK WATNEY: I just feel much more fresh today. Yesterday, I don't know, it was just a very flat -- I don't know if it was kind of a letdown or tired or what, but just very flat, very sloppy all day. So today was just completely different as far as energy level and stuff like that.  
  
  Q. Change your routine at all?  
 NICK WATNEY: No, just didn't do much practicing -- did no practice after the round. We're staying here at Innisbrook, so my wife cooked last night.  
  
  Q. What did she make?  
 NICK WATNEY: Stuffed peppers. It was excellent. We just kind of took it easy and rested. I think that was the best decision that we could have made.   
  
  Q. You knew right off the bat today, you were going to be different?   
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I just felt like I had more energy. I didn't know I was going to shoot 6-under, but yeah, I just felt much better and I guess just more fresh.   
  
  Q. Yesterday, I looked on ShotLink, what happened on 3, an unplayable?   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I hit it left into the bushes. Really couldn't get to it.   
  
  Q. He's tracking you around, he's got you for 18 birdies, six bogeys and a double.   
 NICK WATNEY: Is that what it is?   
  
  Q. Birdied No. 1 all three days.   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah.   
  
  Q. The par 3s, you haven't made a par on No. 4, and you haven't made a par on No. 17 yet, birdies or bogeys?  
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I don't know. I guess it's either feast or famine.   
  
  Q. Par 3s were really good for you today.   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, which is usually -- I mean, I only made one birdie on the par 5s, and I don't know how many on the par 3s. Three maybe.   
 So if I can take care of the par 5s tomorrow, then I may have a good chance.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about your position? We don't know what's going to happen.   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, we don't know. Well, I've done all I can do. I'm really excited for tomorrow. I'm just going to take a lot from last week.   
  
  Q. How much momentum are you still riding from last week?  
 NICK WATNEY: Definitely riding some momentum. I just feel good with my game and I'm feeling more and more comfortable. Kind of in the heat of it, and just having a good time.   
  
  Q. How are the galleries out there? How is the whole tournament treating you?   
 NICK WATNEY: Good. I played with Martin Kaymer yesterday, so a lot of people came out to see the world No. 1. And 17 is pretty lively, as it always seems to be.   
 Yeah, it seems like the tournament is kind of gaining its footing here in Tampa and more and more people are coming out.  
  
  Q. How close do you need to be? You're two back at Doral going into the last round. Is there a -- if you're within two or three, or is there a number?  
 NICK WATNEY: No, not really. The closer the better, obviously, but you know, I don't want to put a limit on it; I still want to think I have a chance. The closer the better, but all I can really do is take care of myself.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT