AT&T BYRON NELSON
May 29, 2015
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   65 in the 2nd Round.   Interesting day out there?  
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.   You know, I haven't played in a tournament when they moved us up to 110-yard par 3 from a 400-yard par 4.   I guess we're doing what we got to do with the conditions and, you know, if you can drive the ball good, the greens are soft enough you hit it close.   So, I mean there will be some good scores.  
   
 Q.   You tamed that new vicious par 3 at 104 yards with a 2.   What did you do to get there?  
NICK WATNEY:   Into the wind.   Chipped a little pitching wedge and I was able to hit it in there close and make an eagle -- or make a 2 on that hole.   I'll take 2 anytime on that hole.  
   
 Q.   What's going to work for you this week?  
NICK WATNEY:   I'm just trying to really enjoy myself out here.   The past few weeks have been grinding on it pretty hard and haven't gotten the results I like.   I'm really trying to enjoy it and so far so good.  
   
 Q.   Four birdies today, no bogies.   That is never be a bad thing.  
NICK WATNEY:   Pretty fairly stress-free round.   You know, obviously getting to pick the ball up and place it helps but, for the most part, stayed out of trouble and, you know, in a decent position so far.  
   
 Q.   Any particular thoughts on the 14th hole?  
NICK WATNEY:   I've never played in a tournament that has done that but judging from the fairway, you know, it would have been pretty messy so I'm sure they don't want -- they want it to be just a one day thing.   Hopefully the weather cooperates and it will dry out little bit.  
   
 Q.   What was your thought walking up to the tee box with the plywood and everything?  
NICK WATNEY:   We were all kind of looking at each other and laughing because we've never been through that, where the tee is just getting really beat up and muddy.   But, you know, they're doing the best they can and really rough conditions this week so hopefully the rain will hold off.  
   
 Q.   There was some discussion of whether it would be a par 4 or par 3.   Did you know what it was when were you playing it?  
NICK WATNEY:   No.   I hope it's a par 4 so I can get a eagle.   Didn't really matter.   It's 110-yard shot.   We would take a drive there any day so didn't really matter what the par is.  
   
 Q.   There was a report a bunch of players met with Ben Crenshaw earlier in the week.   Were you among those players and have you heard anything about the new course and your thoughts on it?  
NICK WATNEY:   I was not among those players.   I haven't heard anything about a new golf course so if it's anything like what Crenshaw has done, it will be great, I'm sure.   So, you know, have to wait and see.   I'll sure it will be really nice.  
   
 Q.   A guy that has played on the Tour as long as he has, putting it together, he understands what you guys need.  
NICK WATNEY:   Moreso just he's got a very kind of artistic way about him and he sees things differently than a lot of players and a lot of course designers, also.   So, I think he and his partner, they do really great work and I'm sure this one will be as good as well.  
   
 Q.   Nick, you ever played a par 69 course?  
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I have a few times but never -- I've never played -- teed off in a tournament the par is 70 and then next day it's 69.   I've never done that.   First time for everything, I guess.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT