WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 11, 2011
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How is the hair? Looks like another good week. 
 NICK WATNEY: So far, so good. 

 Q. You bogeyed 8, birdied 9. How was it playing this morning?
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I had two downwind holes, which made 8 considerably easier and I managed to screw that up. 
 But No. 9, No. 9 was actually a little bit tricky just because it playing so short; yet, if the wind knocks it down it's in the water obviously. So very pleased with a birdie there.

 Q. Wind obviously will be a factor today as it wasn't once we restarted round one yesterday?
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah.

 Q. How different is this golf course with blustery wind rather than calmness?
 NICK WATNEY: I think the wind is the only defense out here, and so it should bring the teeth out a little bit. 

 Q. Did you plan to get in --
 NICK WATNEY: I would have liked to have finished yesterday, but I think the more holes you could play yesterday, the better.

 Q. What's it going to be like starting, stopping and then starting again later today?
 NICK WATNEY: I think it will be fine. I kind of lucked out. I got about 3 1/2 hours to kill, so I'll just go home and relax a little bit and then come and start all over again. 

 Q. You were right down to the wire; something about the course?
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I like the course. I see the tee shots well for some reason, and it always helps if you're driving it in the fairway and the greens are always really good here. A couple of years ago I was putting nice and that always helps obviously. 

 Q. What is the story behind the hair? 
 NICK WATNEY: My caddie was going to get a haircut in San Diego in our first tournament and we made a deal that as soon as we finish out of the Top-10 then he'll get a haircut, so it's been a couple of months now, we finished every tournament in the Top-10, so it's getting kind of long and nesty. 

 Q. What's his name?
 NICK WATNEY: Chad Reynolds. 

 Q. When do you start thinking about the Masters, will you hit shots at a tournament in preparation? 
 NICK WATNEY: Maybe not during a tournament but definitely while I'm practicing and stuff. Butch is a big fan of that, just picturing a hole and hitting a shot for that hole. He and I start talking about the Masters pretty much in December. So we'll do some work on that back home, but as far as out here, I kind of just try to focus on the shot. 

 Q. Did you go over the green on 8?
 NICK WATNEY: I hit it in the water. I hit a very poor shot. The wind wasn't the reason for that. I just hit a very poor shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT