FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
January 30, 2011
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You start off with five in a row, only one of them longer than about six feet. Did you start to think about something magical, or were you still just trying to climb the leaderboard?   
 NICK WATNEY: Oh, yeah, well, with the course, the golf course this difficult, I still thought if I lost focus and started thinking then I could still end up shooting 2 or 3-under.   
 So I was just trying to keep my head down and make as many as I could.  
  
  Q. But then you make it 8 out of 9. You broke the 9-hole course record. You go to the back side and some big things could happen. Did you think about it at all or did you just keep grinding?   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I have to be honest, i thought about it a little bit. I kind of got out of rhythm there for a few holes. But eagled number 6 and had some good birdie looks coming in. So I really would have liked to have hit a better 5-wood on this hole, number 9, but overall I was very pleased.  
  
  Q. Because you busted your drive and gave yourself a chance at the last hole?  
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I really did. It was a perfect 5-wood, and I kind of overhit it and hit the pass. It was unfortunate, but no complaints.  
  
  Q. You've had some great memories here. This will just be another one?   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, definitely. I love this place, and the first few rounds were disappointing, so it's nice to play a good one.  
  
  Q. What happened? What did you find today that hadn't been there the first three days?   
 NICK WATNEY: I'm not really sure. I didn't have any epiphany or breakthrough or anything like that. Obviously, I made a few putts and just tried to swing with good rhythm and started off really well.  
  
  Q. I saw the two 59s last year. You had one going there. Good luck. Couple more courses coming up that you like a lot?  
 NICK WATNEY: Thank you very much.  
  
  Q. Is this your lowest 9 since you turned pro?  
 NICK WATNEY: Well, it is in relation to par. Last year in Atlanta I had a 28 also, but it was a par 35 so it was only 7-under.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT