NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 19, 2015
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Were you expecting this?
NICK WATNEY:   You can't really expect it.   Very pleasing.   It's my fifth week in a row, so I wasn't sure what to expect, really.   Started off great.   I did get some good breaks out there.   Pitched in on the seventh from right of the green.   Walking up there, you're looking at bogey and then I birdied the eighth hole from the middle there.   Got some good breaks but I'll take it. 

Q.   What did you hit? 
NICK WATNEY:   9‑iron, three feet.   And so I got some good breaks but putted great and off to a good start.

Q.   What's the balance coming off last week between disappointment and happiness‑‑
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I was disappointed for maybe 12 hours, but I think overall, it was almost all positive from last week. 
So you know, kind of just go over it, see what I could have done better there, especially on Sunday and then on to the next. 

Q.   Is there anything to compare that to in your career, a bounce back from a close call like that? 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I mean, you know, any time that you play well and you play late on Sunday, you really have to, in my opinion, reset.   It's easy to kind of go out there on Thursday and just think good things are going to happen just because you played well the week before. 
But you have to reset and get back to when you were doing and hopefully you can have a chance again in the new week.

Q.   What did Buster say to you on 18, and is it anything like what you might say to him if you were in the dugout and made the last out of a game? 
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I think it's different in baseball, because you either win or lose.   Golf, I didn't win, but I played pretty well all week and finished second.   I think it was similar.   You had a great week, hold your head up, and I guess I probably received it better than if he was the last out of the game.

Q.   How are the greens?
NICK WATNEY:   They are very fast.   You've really got to pay attention, because I think they are the fastest that I've seen them at this golf course.   So kind of makes certain holes that are going away‑‑ it slopes from front to back, which makes the approach shots really difficult to get it close.   They are fast enough that they will definitely hold your attention.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT