THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 26, 2010
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How difficult was it coming back after the rain delay and then the rain just seemed to --
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, it's more just -- obviously the golf course softens up a bit and the rough is a little more penal, and just trying to keep stuff dry is a bit annoying.

 Q. When you chipped in for eagle on 9, did you or Chad, did you guys talk about what you had done in your 18 previous holes?
 NICK WATNEY: We didn't. We didn't. You know, at that point I was right in the thick of the tournament, so we were just trying to keep our head down and keep moving forward. Unfortunately lost a bit of steam there, but you know, all in all, it was a really good week. I'm very pleased. 
 I mean, if you would have told me yesterday walking off the 8th tee I'd be 5-under for the tournament, I would have taken it and ran. So all in all, I'm pleased.

 Q. You were 10-under for the weekend. What do you put that down to? 
 NICK WATNEY: I guess something clicked. My ball-striking improved. Butch was here earlier in the week, and we did some good work, and it didn't quite click until yesterday afternoon, then all of a sudden the game was easy for some reason. I'll take 10-under after two rounds around here any time.

 Q. Do you think you just ran out of holes? 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, definitely making bogey on 16 and 17 was disappointing. I would have liked to have posted a number for Jim to look at. You know what, we're all out here to win, so it was a disappointing finish. 

 Q. What do you attribute the bogeys on the closing holes, the weather or the pressure and what was at stake?
 NICK WATNEY: I think -- well, the weather made No. 17 very difficult. Man, if they would have played that other tee today, we would have had a logjam there. But the weather made 17 very difficult. 
 18 was playing -- it was 230 on the scorecard, but it was probably playing close to 250. So I think the weather made things very difficult.

 Q. You said that the delay took steam out. What did it affect with your golf game before the delay, how good you were playing, and after? What was the biggest change and effect?
 NICK WATNEY: I think you just always feel a little different. If I would have had a delay yesterday, I probably wouldn't have stayed hot on the back nine. It was just stopping and starting was a little bit difficult. It was almost like two separate rounds today. We played 11 holes and then the last seven, so it was almost like two separate rounds. 

 Q. Were the conditions almost too soggy? Should we have maybe given it some more time?
 NICK WATNEY: No, this place, it was fine. It was difficult for sure, but the golf course was definitely playable. 

 Q. Would you have liked to have started a couple hours earlier this morning before the system moved in? 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I mean, I wouldn't have minded that. I can say that now after I started well. But yeah, that would have been nice.

 Q. Nice boost for Jim ahead of the Ryder Cup. 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, definitely. I believe it would be his third win of the year. I'm pretty sure the FedExCup title. It would definitely be some good momentum. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT