THE TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
September 25, 2010
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Chad said the key to your round was just you getting out of your way. Could you expound on that? 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I mean, I think coming in this week, you always like to try to finish off the year on a positive note. It wasn't really -- nothing was really clicking early in the week, even early today. I'm not really sure who to credit. I mean, Chad read a lot of good putts out there, so I'll credit him. 

 Q. You haven't birdied any of the first five holes the first three rounds, so how do you reconcile that with how you finished today? 
 NICK WATNEY: That's a great question. I think -- I mean, I think I found something -- I kind of found something on the 8th hole in the fairway with my setup, and then I was -- I hadn't made anything all week, so I just said, Chad, this is -- he loves Bermudagrass, so from now on you read them and tell me where to hit it, and he read them great. 

 Q. Yesterday you didn't stick around to practice, either. You got out of here pretty quick. 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah.

 Q. Obviously I guess you didn't need the practice. 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I guess that's just the way this game is for some reason. You know, I've definitely had rounds where I've hit it well and stuck around and practiced and then come out the next day and played poorly for whatever reason -- I mean, I guess I've hit a lot of balls this year. 

 Q. Talk a little bit about what it feels like. 
 NICK WATNEY: Everything kind of slows down, the hole is a little bigger, and it's a great feeling. 
 Just trying to keep it going and keep the same rhythm in your walk and the same pre-shot routine down to the tee. It's a great feeling. I mean, it doesn't come along all that often, and you just want to try to ride it as long as possible. 

 Q. Do you think you can win the tournament? 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I mean, I didn't think I'd shoot 63, I'll tell you that, after five holes. So who knows. Obviously -- I think I'm six behind now, so if they get to double digits it would be really tough. But you never know. 

 Q. What did you do with your setup on 8? Like what was different? What did you change?
 NICK WATNEY: I felt like I bumped my weight probably what felt like about 65 percent on my front leg, and for whatever reason I guess I was setting up too far back or something. But for whatever reason I started hitting it really nice after that. 

 Q. Where does this rank in terms of your low rounds?
 NICK WATNEY: I'd say it's right up there. It's one of the toughest courses we play, and this course hasn't been too low all week. Definitely for nine holes, probably my best on TOUR.

 Q. Have the wedding plans and the planning of it taken sort of a mental toll on you? Do you feel a little bit just exhausted by that? 
 NICK WATNEY: That's a loaded question right there (laughing). 

 Q. I mean, you guys chose to do it yourself as opposed to have a wedding planner. 
 NICK WATNEY: I would say, you know what, it's probably taken more of a toll on her than it has on me. She's been doing almost everything, so I'm going to leave it at that. 

 Q. What are you going to have for lunch today?
 NICK WATNEY: I'm not sure what I'm going to have, but I'm going to have sweet tea for sure, no toast (smiling). 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT