PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   KELLY ELBIN: Nick Watney, ladies and gentlemen, the leader after three round of the 92nd PGA Championship at Whistling Straits. Nick's fired a 6-under par 66 today, 13-under par after three rounds here at Whistling Straits. Nick, this is the first time that you'll be leading going into the final round of a major championship, comments on your play today and also looking ahead to the being in the final group tomorrow. 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, the key it my round today was definitely my wedges and putting. It was it -- I was spot on with those. And as far as tomorrow, I'm really looking forward to it. I think it's going to be fun. It's going to be a great challenge and I'm very excited. 
 KELLY ELBIN: For the record, Nick needed only 25 putts today, the fewest of the three rounds so far. 

 Q. You have seen what happens to other guys like Dustin Johnson in the final round of a major that haven't been there before, how do you avoid having that happen to you?
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I can only control what I do. And I'm going to go out there tomorrow, put the tee in the ground on No. 1 and just try to focus on that shot. It's going to be a long day, it's going to be a tough day, but I'm really looking forward to it. 

 Q. You've played well this year at the majors, specifically the Masters, finishing 7th and The Open as well. What do you have to do tomorrow to convert your lead into a win?
 NICK WATNEY: Well, at this point it's just another golf tournament. I think that's the best way for me to look at it. Obviously it's not, but I just need to go out there and keep doing what I'm doing. I'm playing very well, give myself as many chances as possible, I'm putting the best I have in a really long time, so I can only control myself, just got to do that tomorrow.
 KELLY ELBIN: Let's look at your score scored, kick Lee go through those birdies and bogeys, please. 
 NICK WATNEY: Yes, the first hole I hit a lob wedge from 95 yards to about six feet and made that. 
 The second hole a pitching wedge from 120 to about three feet. 
 No. 5, the par-5, I hit it just off the green and chipped it about actually hit it, chipped it about 15 feet back, was able to sink it. 
 No. 6, I hit a sand wedge probably about another 15 feet and made that. 
 No. 7, I hit a 5-iron about 12 feet and holed it. 
 Bogeyed No. 8. 
 No. 11, I hit a sand wedge from 110 to about 18 feet and holed it. 
 14, a sand wedge from 107 to about three feet. 
 16, a lob wedge from 97 to about 12 feet. 
 KELLY ELBIN: What happened on 18, please? 
 NICK WATNEY: 18, I hit a very poor drive and tried to lay it up and actually laid it up in the left rough and the ball was quite aways above my feet and I just wanted to get it on the green and minimize the mistake, so I was able to chip it on about 40 feet and 2-putt for bogey. 

 Q. Butch has obviously worked with a few majors before, what is he telling you?
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I haven't seen him yet, but I'll definitely tap into his wealth of knowledge after this round and I'm sure he'll just say to enjoy the process and go out there and just play the first hole. I don't think there's any, there's any magic formula, but, yeah I'll definitely have a chat with Butch. 

 Q. Did you feel coming into this week that you had things going pretty well?
 NICK WATNEY: I did. I have played pretty nice from Philadelphia on. I didn't finish too well at the U.S. Open, but Philadelphia, I finished 7th, the British 7th, and last week 16th so I felt like I was playing well, just making a few mistakes here and there and this week thus far I've kept it pretty tidy. 

 Q. When you won at Torrey Pines your caddie and some others said that putting was the thing that had held you back. And obviously you're putting very well right now. What is that process been like? Is it still coming and going or do you feel like you've got it pretty consistently down?
 NICK WATNEY: I wish I could putt like I did today consistently. But I think it's more about just trusting it as opposed to anything physical. I don't feel like my stroke is inconsistent, I think it's just being committed and trusting it. So I'm trying to do that and it's working great this week. 

 Q. You've got a three-shot lead, the wind is supposed to blow pretty good tomorrow, gusting at 25, 20 miles an hour. How do you avoid the trap of trying to protect in that position which sometimes costs guys in your position?
 NICK WATNEY: I think it's pretty simple because A, this is a tough golf course, and B, this is the best players in the world. So they're going to be coming, and it's going to be a long day. There's a lot of mistakes out there, so I just have to trust my game and give it my best. 

 Q. How much did make do you live's and Oosthuizen victories get your attention in the sense that, hey, if they can do it, I can do it?
 NICK WATNEY: I think a little bit. I actually played college golf with Graeme, he played here in the States, and they were both extremely solid down the stretch and I think that's where most people think that you know proven players are going to falter and both of them didn't. They played brilliant golf. So it's definitely great to see and hopefully I can join them. 

 Q. Somewhat related to that, if you look at the top six guys on the leaderboard, nobody's won a major, what do you make of that?
 NICK WATNEY: I think that there's some really good players that haven't won a major. And all the guys that have at one point they hadn't won either, so you got to start somewhere and hopefully tomorrow will be my day. 

 Q. How long have you worked with Butch and what prompted you to seek hem out? Were you at a loss and had you gotten to the point in your game where you felt like you needed some extra help and just how did that happen?
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I began working with Butch through a friend, Sam Reeves, who I met in Fresno where I went to college. And I don't think it was, I wasn't loss, I just, I really honestly believed that he's the best teacher in the world. And I think his track record show that is. So I'm very, very lucky to work with him and hopefully I'll get to see him later this evening and just iron out a few things and go out there tomorrow and give it a shot. 

 Q. How long have you been working with him?
 NICK WATNEY: I worked with Butch now for six years. 

 Q. Can you talk about your approach to each of the four par-3s tomorrow and for the overall 18 what are you thinking are the pivotal holes for you?
 NICK WATNEY: The nature of this golf course is there's train wrecks everywhere, so I think every hole is pivotal. But the par-3s, I haven't seen the weather, I guess there's going to be wind, I think a three is a good score on every one of these par-3, so just once I get there, assess the shot, and try to make a three. And if you roll in a putt, then great. But par is good. Especially if the weather is bad. 
 KELLY ELBIN: For the record Nick has played the par-3s in a combined 2-under par through the three rounds so far. 

 Q. Speaking of par-3s, Nick would you go through that putt on 17. 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, 17, the putt was a slight double breaker and my speed didn't feel good all day there. I just wanted to pick a line and then trust it, be committed and I hit a really nice putt. I thought it might catch the hole, and screw in there, but I was very pleased with just -- I almost got the line right and that definitely would have ban bonus if it had caught the hole. 

 Q. 
 KELLY ELBIN: Nick Watney the leader going into the final round of the PGA Championship. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT