PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2010
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You played really, really well. How do you assess your position even though obviously things are far from decided without even a cut line known. 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I can't control what those guys are doing, so I played very well today and I'm glad to be done. It was a very long day. I'm looking forward to the weekend. 

 Q. Give us an idea of what time did you get up and the wait and the stall, how much of a challenge was it with the schedule?
 NICK WATNEY: Well I was up this morning at 4:15 and then obviously we didn't tee off until maybe 9:30 or something like that. So it was, if I had known we weren't teeing off until 9:30, I probably wouldn't have woken up so early. 
 I guess it's just part of the deal and the guys yesterday had to do it, so everybody's putting up with it. 

 Q. Is that a little bit herky jerky to try to get mentally prepared and then warm-up and then lay down and then you got 18 holes after you finish?
 NICK WATNEY: It's not ideal, but at the same time it doesn't happen too often, so just kind of roll with the punches and try to make the best it have.

 Q. What do you take from the performance at St. Andrews to bring into this major?
 NICK WATNEY: Well, it's just very exciting, playing there, the home of golf, and having a nice finish. It was satisfying but at the same time it was -- I was wanting more, so I'm in good shape and hopefully I'll continue to play well on the weekend. 

 Q. Well played. 
 NICK WATNEY: Thank you. 

 Q. Do you feel like you can bring this thing home? Do you like where you're at right now halfway through?
 NICK WATNEY: I love where I'm at and bringing it home will just be a matter of taking, slowing things down and taking it one shot at a time as the cliche goes and I am in great shape but at the same time it's only halfway over, so I got along, long way to go and can't actually think about winning the tournament until with maybe about six holes left to play on Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT