MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2010
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What was going on out there?
 NICK WATNEY: It was a magical day. I was having so much fun coming down the stretch and I didn't really want it to end. Although I didn't win the Tournament, it's a dream come true to play a good round on Sunday at Augusta.

 Q. What got you started and take us through your round?
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I really felt good with the putter all day. The greens are so pure if you get it started on line then you're going to make it. So I would say that the biggest difference between today and any other days was my putter. 

 Q. Now that you see that someone can post a 7-under out there, what do you think that does to the rest of the field? How do you guys react when you see a score like that go up on the board?
 NICK WATNEY: The guys know that it's out there, I guess. I think that the back nine, the par-5s are, it's such a beautiful day that the par-5s are very reachable and I think that there's going to be some birdies out there. 

 Q. Great round. 
 NICK WATNEY: Thank you. 

 Q. 65 today. Eight birdies. Can you tell us what clicked today for you?
 NICK WATNEY: I was very, very calm out there. My putting was definitely the key. I hit it great, but you can hit it 10 feet all day, if you don't make anything, it's just a 72. So I felt good with the putter and luckily I rolled some in. 

 Q. You came in to today tied for 16th. How much was in your mind of getting in the top 16 and getting an automatic invitation?
 NICK WATNEY: It's always nice to nail down an invitation. I felt like if I played a good round that would take care of itself. Then once I got off to a good start I just kind of wanted to keep it going and kind of ignored all the, tried not to get too lost in the moment. But it's definitely nice to have an invitation back here next year. 

 Q. Three subpar rounds, you had the 76 in the second round, what was the difference between that second round and the rest of the week?
 NICK WATNEY: I think that it was just the putter. I missed a few on the back nine and I was just very unfortunate, it was pretty much just the back nine that cost me, may have cost me the Tournament. But I was just trying to learn from that. I'm really looking forward to next year. 

 Q. (No microphone.)
 NICK WATNEY: I love this place. I think it's just a magical place. I love the golf course, and it's something I'm looking forward to next year right now. So maybe if I can eliminate that 76, who knows. 

 Q. The pin placements were suitable to your game?
 NICK WATNEY: There's some, the par-5s are very scoreable today with just, it's just perfect conditions for golf. So there's some difficult pins, but today I did a better job of staying patient and making a par when I had to as opposed to -- I mean it's easier when you're 4-, 5-, 6-under to do that, but I did a good job. The difficult pins I shot to the middle of the green today.

 Q. Being 7-under was patience your strong suit today?
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, no question. The first couple days, definitely the second day I saw the leaders were playing well and kind of tried to force a few things and that's not a good thing out here. 
 Today I stayed much more patient and it paid off. 

 Q. Have you played much with K.J.? Would you be surprised if he ended up winning?
 NICK WATNEY: Oh, no, definitely I would not be surprised. He's a world class player, he's proven that. I was more surprised last year when he had a poor year than when he wins and stuff like that. So I have a lot of respect for his game.

 Q. Do you remember the clubs you hit for the birdies and stuff?
 NICK WATNEY: No. 2, I was in the front bunker and I made a very nice up-and-down. I made about a 6-footer. 
 Number 3, I hit a wedge in there about eight feet. 
 6, 7-iron maybe 12 feet.
 7, I had a pitching wedge two feet. 
 8 I pitched it in there six inches. 
 13, 2-putt. 
 15, I hit it just over the back and probably about three feet away. 
 17, I hit a pitching wedge about four feet. 

 Q. Did you have a short one on 18 as well?
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I was probably, it was probably a 10-footer. That would have been real nice to have made that. I thought that -- I watched a lot of these tournaments -- I thought it would be straighter than it looks, but I missed it a little low. But next time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT