TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2010
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 4-under 67 today, under some trying conditions out there after that rain delay we had. Your thoughts on your play?   
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I played great. You know, Thursday I was feeling a little lost, and Friday, actually, too. I made about a 30-footer on the last hole to get to 1-over, which I thought was the cut.   
 And then the weekend, I played great. So this game is a little funny in that way, but very happy with the weekend and looking forward to next week.  
  
  Q. How different was it out there after the rain delay? The course played differently, didn't it?   
 NICK WATNEY: It did. Although over the past, you know, three years, it's gotten really, really firm around here. So in that respect, it made it a touch easier. But the golf course is tough enough and when you throw the wind in there it makes it really hard.  
  
  Q. When you got to 10-under, did you think maybe the other guys might notice?  
 NICK WATNEY: I did. And I kind of went at it at 16 and made a bogey, which was kind of the end of my winning hopes. But yeah, it was fun just to -- I made the cut by a shot; so to even have that thought late on Sunday was a good thing.   
  
  Q. Your best result of the year, but it didn't start out this way the first two rounds. What did you tell yourself over the weekend that allowed you to shoot 65-67?   
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I got on the phone with Butch and we kind of dissected how I was missing it and kind of found something on Friday afternoon practicing. I was putting well Thursday, Friday. I just wasn't giving myself any chances, so with improved ball-striking, I kept putting well, and it's the kind of course that good rounds can make up a lot of spots.   
 So luckily it worked out.  
  
  Q. What were your thoughts in terms of the way that you are were rising up the leaderboard; did you think you were close to catching Jim Furyk?  
 NICK WATNEY: I thought if I could birdie the last three. I got to 10 through 15. I thought if I could birdie the last three, I might have a chance. I proceeded to make a bogey on 16, so that kind of ended that.  
 But I did, I thought I might -- if I could make some noise, the last three holes are super-tough, so you never know.  
  
  Q. In terms of your future going forward this year, what do you take out of this weekend that makes you feel good about going forward into the major season specifically?   
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I'm kind of coming into form. Last year, I started off really well and then through the major season, I kind of went through a lull. Hopefully this year, I'm rounding into form right at the perfect time.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT