WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 10, 2010
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: We would like to welcome the 2009 CA Championship runner-up, Nick Watney, to the interview room. You have had some good performances this year, two Top-10s, including a tie for 9th a couple weeks ago at the World Golf Championships Accenture Match Play Championship. Pretty good form, I know you would like to get into the winner's circle this week, and obviously good memories from last year, maybe some opening comments.
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, it's nice to be back, definitely. Played the back nine yesterday and definitely remembered certain shots and situations from last year. 
 So very excited about the week. 

 Q. The way this course plays, do you go in thinking that you have to hit birdie after birdie after birdie, or how do you approach it? 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I think the weather determines that somewhat, if it's really windy and firm it's not going to be as easy. Last year if I remember correctly, we had some pretty light wind days and the greens were relatively soft. It was definitely more suited to scoring.
 It's tough to tell in the practice rounds because the golf course usually changes a little bit. But, yeah, I think in the past, there's been some low scoring, so it's definitely a tournament that usually you have to go pretty low to win. 

 Q. So did you play the last 36 with Phil? 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah.

 Q. What was that like, and with the crowd following, a bigger crowd I suppose, and what was the difference between you guys? 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, as far as playing with Phil over the last 36, it was great. He was definitely fun to play with. I learned a lot just about competing, Phil is very popular out here so it was a bit like an away game but I enjoyed it. He came out on top and beat me by a shot. Then we played in China in the World Golf Championships- HSBC Champions there, so I think I owe him one.

 Q. I think it was the final round, shot you hit on 9, over the green, how do you rate that show? Sometimes when you win, things like that happen. At that point, did you think that was going to be your day?
 NICK WATNEY: As far as how I rate it, at the time I think I was two behind and definitely if I screwed up that hole, would have been really tough to catch him. So at the time, it was a very meaningful shot. And that having been said, it was also a little bit lucky. Don't really count on holing that out very many times. 
 It was a big shot, and it was a big shot at the time to keep me in the tournament. And yeah, when you win, some lucky things always happen. I would have liked to have been sitting here and say that was the turning point for getting the victory, but as it stands, it was fun just to be able to compete and play at the high level like that when it mattered like that and I hope I get a chance to do that again, soon. 

 Q. This is a pretty international field here, only 68 guys as opposed to 80 last year but still probably some guys that you haven't seen before. Do you have a sort of "welcome to the World Golf Championships moment" where you remember looking at a guy thinking, I have absolutely no idea who that is but he's playing with us? 
 NICK WATNEY: To be honest, not this week, because last year, I played, for me, the most international schedule that I had. There were definitely some moments last year when I played with some guys and saw some guys I didn't know. But I travelled quite a bit in the off-season, went to China two times and then down to South Africa. So I saw a lot of the players around the world. 
 This week, so far, anyway, I haven't had one of those moments. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Nick Watney, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT