WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 18, 2010
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURA HILL: I'd like to welcome Nick Watney, a nice 2 and 1 victory over Lee Westwood, who was the No. 1 seed in your bracket. You were down one early, but after that got it back and never lost control of the match.  
 NICK WATNEY: Well, it was definitely hard fought. I knew playing Lee it would be a tough, long day. And I'm very pleased to come out on top.  
 LAURA HILL: Was there anything in particular, a turning point, that got momentum going in the right direction?   
 NICK WATNEY: Well, he holed a bunker shot out for eagle on the 13th. And I was able to birdie the next hole. That really kind of gained my momentum back.   
 And then actually I was able to win 15 as well, and then half the last two. I would say 14 was a turning point.   
  
  Q. The top remaining -- three top remaining No. 1 seeds got beat today, so did McIlroy, so did the defending champion. What does that say about this tournament, the way it's plotted out goes down so quickly?  
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I think it's -- I guess that's partly the game of golf and that's partly a credit to the strength of the field. It's definitely different than the NCAA basketball tournament. There's a pretty big discrepancy between a 1 and a 16.  
 But like you saw Steve Stricker won two weeks ago, and lost yesterday. So it's just -- it's a crazy format. I think the field is also very strong.   
  
  Q. You play a lot of games on TOUR early in the week. You like to play match play, don't you?  
 NICK WATNEY: I actually don't play too many games early in the week. I have a hard enough time concentrating for four days than trying to concentrate for five.   
 But, yeah, I was talking with my coach, Butch Harmon, it's such a different format, match play, one day at a time, compared to a 72 hole event is quite different. So kind of reminds me of the U.S. Amateur back when I played, but that was probably eight years ago. So it's taken -- yesterday starting off took a little getting used to, just a different format. But I definitely enjoy this tournament.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT