AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 14, 2015
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round a little bit. 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, it's important to get off to a good start just on those first six or seven holes and I was able to do that. 
Then we kind of go through a really tough stretch of the course. 
But then kind of made a few birdies on the back nine.   So, I played well, Jim played really, really well.   It's fun to watch.   He hit some wedges in there just to tap‑ins. 
So it was a great day.   I think both of our amateurs made the cut.   Hard to complain about anything out here today.

Q.   The past two weeks have been great play from you.   Is there anything that's really contributed to that great play these two weeks?
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I'm starting to putt better.   It's been pretty much my focus.   That was my biggest weakness from last year.   I'm hitting it nice and just enjoying being out here and I'm really excited for tomorrow. 

Q.   Talk about tomorrow a little bit.   With the weather being this way and you know you got to go low, what's your mentality coming out here tomorrow?
NICK WATNEY:   More of the same.   Just try to put the ball in good spots and you can still make bogeys. 
It's beautiful weather and the courses are there for the taking, but can still make bogeys if you get too aggressive. 
So, just keep the ball in front of me and hopefully make some putts and have a chance coming down the stretch. 

Q.   Comment on the day for us, if you can, first. 
NICK WATNEY:   It was a great day.   Jim and I‑‑ Jim shot 9‑under, I shot seven.   Both amateurs made the cut.   Perfect weather at Pebble Beach.   What's there to complain about?   It was a great day. 

Q.   Did your 7‑under, as good as it was, does it feel like it could have been better?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, it was ‑‑ Jim made it feel a little pedestrian, I would say.   It was a pretty easy 63 for him.   I don't think he made a bogey.   It wasn't like he was sweating any par putts. 
So, it was an impressive round for sure.   I think 18, he epitomized it.   He hit a three or 5‑wood off the tee and laid up and hit it in there a couple inches.   So, he played great. 

Q.   What about his game jumps out at you as a fellow player?   Here's a guy that's won a lot but he's not flamboyant, he doesn't hit it far. 
NICK WATNEY:   I think just his nature.   He just does what he does.   He's not going to ‑‑ if he was a quarterback, and he couldn't throw it far he wouldn't try to throw a bunch of bombs. 
If he was a pitcher, he's not going to try to overpower you, he will take the corners and he gets outs.   He makes birdies.   He just does what he does.   It's a beautiful thing.   He's not trying to ‑‑ he knows his limitations and he plays well within them and he's really good at it.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT