WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 7, 2009
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. We have to start with your finish - what a putt! How long do you think that was for eagle?
 NICK WATNEY: I think it was maybe close to 40-45 feet and it was really nice to make it because I three putted the 17th for bogey so that kind of evened itself out I suppose. Golf can be a funny game at times can't it.

 Q. It looked like you thought it was in all the way?
 NICK WATNEY: Yes I did. I hit it right where I thought I needed to. There is a little rise when it was going down and I didn't know whether or not it was going to hang on but I was glad it did and I was so happy when I saw the ball disappear.

 Q. Thoughts on the day overall?
 NICK WATNEY: I thought I played pretty well overall considering it was my first time playing with Tiger in a tournament and I was happy that I was able to concentrate and play the shots I needed to play. Hopefully, at only two back, I might have a shot at the tournament and I really can't wait.

 Q. It does bring special pressures playing with Tiger doesn't it?
 NICK WATNEY: Obviously there is the crowds and the cameras and everything to deal with but he does have his own mystique about him. But I really enjoyed it. He is the best player in the world and it is not every day that you can say you did something with the best in the world so I was excited about today and I am even more excited about tomorrow.

 Q. Obviously tomorrow you have Tiger but you also throw Phil into that equation too, that is quite a pair of partners for you, the world number one and two?
 NICK WATNEY: Yes it is, I suppose I'm kind of the odd man out there. But the goal in golf is always to improve and tomorrow will be a big step for me. Regardless of the outcome I'll get the chance to watch these guys and see how they handle themselves and hopefully I can handle myself well too.

 Q. You got a close up look at Phil in Doral at the CA Championship and did very well there and came within a whisker of a play-off. Presumably you can use that experience to help you tomorrow?
 NICK WATNEY: Yes definitely. Both at Doral and today with Tiger I think I can use the experience. Butch always tells me to walk slowly and just kind of take everything in and do my best.

 Q. Have you been enjoying the China experience?
 NICK WATNEY: Yes I have. We haven't really adjusted to the time yet but I know it is a World Golf Championship and for that reason, I'm really glad I came.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT