WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
November 6, 2009
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Current leader in the clubhouse, Nick Watney, thank you for joining us here. You finished at 10-under with birdies on your last two holes. I'm sure you're happy to not only have the clubhouse lead, but also finish on a strong note. Maybe some opening comments about your round today, specifically your last two holes. 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I played very well again today. The main difference was the putter; whereas yesterday I made a whole lot of putts, today was a bit of a struggle with the putter. 
 So to finish with two birdies in the last two was a good feeling. I made the last putt on 17, and so I feel good about the way I'm playing, and just going to work on my putting a little this evening and go on to the week indicate. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Pretty bunched leaderboard, some big names up there obviously. Right now you've got the lead but there's also some players, Tiger, Phil Mickelson, among others, within a couple of shots. Does that change your mind-set at all going into the weekend or do you just play your own game? 
 NICK WATNEY: No, I mean, I knew from the start that they were in the field. So it's no surprise that they are playing well. 
 If anything, it just -- whatever the lead is at, that's not going to win the golf tournament. So I need to go out and keep playing well and keep making birdies to have any shot. 

 Q. Some players have had complaints about some behaviour of the crowd out there. I was wondering how big your crowd was and whether there were any distractions or if you had any comments about that. 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, we had some decent crowds out there today. But I wasn't distracted too bad at any one point. It was just kind of -- there's been a few camera clicks, but for the most part, I feel like once I kind of get going into a shot that I don't hear a lot. 
 So for me, it hasn't been bad at all. 

 Q. Compared to the PGA TOUR, is there any difference coming to the HSBC, WGC? 
 NICK WATNEY: Compared to the TOUR, I think if this tournament was in America, it would be one of the top tournaments. The golf course is good. Obviously the field is very strong. So I think they were -- whoever made it a World Golf Championships event, I think it was a good decision. 

 Q. Can you talk to us about the attitude of the players you played with today? 
 NICK WATNEY: I played with Ian Poulter and Martin Kaymer. And as far as how they played, Ian played nice, I believe 3-under. And Martin, I believe he shot 2-over. 
 But as far as playing with them, I enjoyed it a lot. It was the first week I've played with both of them. But obviously they are very, very good players, top players in the world, and really nice guys. So I enjoyed it. 

 Q. Well, you've experienced down town Shanghai. Can you tell us the major difference between your home country and what you can see in China?
 NICK WATNEY: Well, it seems like there's a lot. This is probably the biggest city I've ever been in. I live in Las Vegas and there's probably maybe two million people here, and I heard there's 18 here, 18 million here. So I think this is the biggest city I've ever been in. Apart from I guess the food, it's just a big city. I can't tell any major differences. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Nick Watney, thank you very much. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT