WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2009
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Playing like you did today on this stage what, does it do for your confidence? 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I think it kind of shows myself that I can handle it and I can hit some good shots coming down the stretch. 
 The putt on 17 just to stay one back was big and the putt on 18 looked good for a long time. You know, a lot of positives came out of this week.

 Q. What were you thinking on the putt on 18 when it was getting closer and closer to the hole?
 NICK WATNEY: I thought it was on a really good line, and I can't believe I left it short. But I mean, I just tried to hit the putt like I normally would, not try force it in there, and unfortunately, I just didn't hit it hard enough.

 Q. Any doubt in your mind it was going in when it was rolling?
 NICK WATNEY: I honestly thought it was going to get there. It's pretty slopey back there, and I thought it was going to catch the front edge.

 Q. Was playing in that final group against Phil what you expected or more than what you expected as far as the fans and just everything that encompasses it? 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I played with him yesterday, as well, so it pretty similar. I think it's fun. It's kind of like playing an away game because he's so popular. It's kind of like playing in a visitor's stadium or something. But I enjoyed it.

 Q. Did you notice Phil was ill at all, sluggish or drinking more?
 NICK WATNEY: I thought he was walking a bit slower than maybe, normal. He took a few moments after we played 16 to -- I don't know, I walked to 17 tee and he was still back at the green, so I'm not sure what happened. 
 Yeah, I could tell he was laboring a little bit.

 Q. Obviously it's nice to finish second, but will you rerun 18 in your head?
 NICK WATNEY: To be honest I will rerun 12 more. I feel like I gave away two shots there. Having 4-iron to the green and making six there was pretty disappointing. I guess that's going to happen over 72 holes, and just try to, you know, work hard and come back better next time.

 Q. Would you have felt differently about the putt coming up one inch short if Phil's putt had gone in on 18?
 NICK WATNEY: I don't know, tough to say, I don't think I would, because of No. 12. I kind of had some momentum there, and to make six was just killer. So it hurt right now, but all in all, it was a good week. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT