WGC CA CHAMPIONSHIP
March 15, 2009
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Runner-up here at the World Golf Championships CA Championship, Nick Watney. Great week for you. Maybe we'll just start with a few opening comments about your second place finish. I know you have a lot of fans this week, especially the way you played. 
 NICK WATNEY: Overall, I'm very pleased with the way I played. Right now, it still hurts to finish second. I mean, it's disappointing to come up one shot short. 
 But overall, it was a positive week, and just got to keep working hard. 

 Q. As you were coming up 18 and the crowd was clapping, you started clapping. What was that for? 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, just this tournament is very well supported, and the fans here are pretty passionate about golf. So it was just kind of a -- I guess a thank you for making it a really exciting week. 

 Q. Could you just tell us about the last putt? Did you think it was going in, and what was your emotions there right at the end? 
 NICK WATNEY: I honestly thought I was going to make it to the front edge. I tried to tell myself that, just to hit the putt like I normally would and not try to force it in or, you know, hit it extra hard; so I thought I was going to make it to the front edge. It's pretty slopey back there, but after it came up short it, was just kind of a letdown because -- well, definitely a letdown. I knew that Phil was -- as experienced as he is, he was going to close it out.
 Definitely disappointed when it stopped. 

 Q. After winning at a place like Torrey Pines, can you just talk about the confidence it gives you to play up against Phil at a place like Doral? And also, do you think you are a little too hard on yourself? 
 NICK WATNEY: Well, as far as confidence, I mean, I think I'm just -- I think my confidence is just I'm a little more comfortable in the situation. I know that I've done it before and I know that I can come up with shots when I need to come up with them. 
 Do I think I'm too hard on myself? I don't think so. I mean, I think this is --

 Q. Especially after the chip-in at 9, how hard is it to stay within yourself, and one shot at a time, especially when it's that kind of emotion, that many people, this kind of money; how difficult was that process for you? 
 NICK WATNEY: It was something I definitely was aware of. That was definitely a high, an incredible high to hold that out. And I definitely tried to stay in the moment and walk a little bit Slower. Butch always tells me that, to walk a little slower and just keep breathing. I actually hit a good shot on 11 that I thought the wind was a little bit off the right and the ball just wasn't straight. 
 So I thought I did pretty well with coming back down to a playable level of adrenaline or whatever. 

 Q. Congratulations. Well played. I'm curious, when you showed up on the practice tee this morning, if you knew the circumstances about Phil, his little hospital visit last night, and whether you noticed any change in the way he played today versus maybe how he acted today; was he any faster, slower? Seemed like he was drinking Gatorade by the bucket out there. 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I was aware of it. I was aware of it. I mean, I didn't think it was that hot yesterday -- I'm just kidding. (Laughter).

 Q. That's what Tiger said, actually. 
 NICK WATNEY: No, I was aware of it. I heard that he had gone to the hospital, and it was a -- yeah, I think he was walking a little bit slower and just trying to conserve energy. 
 I thought he played very well. I mean, he hit some -- he hit two really great fairway trap shots that were -- one of them, he made birdie and one of them he made par. But he hit a few loose shots that he may not have hit if he was healthy. 
 Obviously he played well enough to win. 

 Q. Can you take us shot by shot on the 11th and 12th hole?
 NICK WATNEY: 11 and 12? Well, with the pin being on the right, my caddie and I decided to hit it left. I've been drawing my driver; that's my go-to shot. I started it pretty much where I wanted and the ball stayed straight in the trap. 
 So then I hit a pitching wedge, a couple grooves low, long, and then hit a very average bunker shot and made bogey. 
 Then 12, obviously Phil did not hit a very good drive, and I hit a nice drive, and a 4-iron, it was a perfect club. I hit a very poor shot into the left bunker. And then for maybe the fourth time this week, I was one foot out of the bunker, one foot in and the lie wasn't that great. I was just trying to chunk it on the green and have some kind of shot and it ended up in the trap. Somebody asked me earlier if I'm going to look back on the putt on 18; I'm going to look back at the putt on 12. I probably gave away two shots there. Disappointing. 

 Q. That drive on 18 was great. How do you deal with the pressure of that big of a gallery? 
 NICK WATNEY: I mean, that's when it's the funnest. You know, that's when it's the funnest is when there is the most on the line. I mean, I've dreamed of moments like this, and in my dreams, it just comes out a little different. But it was -- I mean, I loved it and I hope I'm in the last group next week. 

 Q. You talked about the tough bunker shot at No. 11, and you also had a bunker shot that didn't go your way at No. 7. You talked earlier in the week about how much you worked on your short game; how disappointed are you in your bunker play today?
 NICK WATNEY: Well, to be honest with you, neither -- like No. 7; 11 was a poor shot. But No. 7 and No. 12, I had one foot in the bunker, one foot out, and just I feel like if I had a decent lie or a decent stance, the outcome would have been difference. So I guess I need to practice some tougher lies or something. (Laughter).

 Q. How drained are you right now? 
 NICK WATNEY: I don't feel drained at all right now to be honest with you. I feel like I could play another round. Just kind of frustrated to be honest; disappointed. 
 It seems like a golf tournament lasts so long; and to play well and come up short like that, by one shot, is -- kind of sucks. 

 Q. It's unfair to ask you this 15 minutes coming off the golf course, but in the grand scheme of things, what has the start of this year meant to you? 
 NICK WATNEY: I think it's been kind of an eye-opener in terms of, I worked hard over the off-season, and I'm seeing results. 
 So I think I'll get over this, and it's a positive week. I played really well. Beat 78 of the best players in the world. I beat Tiger, which is always good. I'm very pleased with the way I'm playing. I mean, I think I'm progressing physically and mentally, and I'm looking forward to the rest of the year. 

 Q. Phil is very excited about the way he's driving the ball; you've seen him play in the past, what are you noticing him doing different about driving the ball?
 NICK WATNEY: I heard him say he's trying to eliminate one side of the golf course. I know he takes a swing at it. But he drove it great. 17 and 18, obviously the tournament's on the line and he hit the fairway both times. 
 I think he's driving it very well. 
 JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Nick Watney, thank you for your time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT