THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 31, 2008
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. It was another rough day for you. Talk about your week so far.   
 NICK WATNEY: Yesterday I'm not even sure what happened. I can't explain it. It was just one of those days that I was just really, really off. And I just came out today and tried to take it one shot at a time and it worked out.   
  
  Q. And was the wind different at all today than yesterday, still kind of swirling and tough to pull a club?  
 NICK WATNEY: Still swirling. I would say it's blowing maybe the hardest it has this week today. So combine that with swirling winds, it was probably the toughest day so far.   
  
  Q. The rain overnight on the greens, did that seem to help a little bit?  
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, it definitely helped. It softened them up. I'm not sure what the Stimp is, but I was surprised that they weren't softer. But definitely it helped from the first two days.  
  
  Q. When conditions are like this and you're not maybe right on top of it but you're playing really well, can you just compound things? Can it get out of control really quickly?  
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, it can. It's definitely tough out there if you drive it in the rough. And I did that plenty yesterday. So you got to be careful sometimes. So flags are on slopes and stuff.   
 So, yeah, with the conditions the way it is, if you're not on, it was difficult scoring.  
  
  Q. What did you do on 18?  
 NICK WATNEY: I made a par.   
  
  Q. Do you look at the scoreboard and you have two 68s and then an 80.   
 NICK WATNEY: You mean yesterday?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, yesterday is definitely a disappointing day. I played really well Thursday and then well again today. So I'm not really sure what happened.   
 So depending upon tomorrow it could be -- as you look back on it, I could look back on it as a day that cost me. But at the same time it happened and you just got to go forward.   
  
  Q. Did you say today the conditions were tougher than yesterday?  
 NICK WATNEY: No. I said the wind blew harder. And it's swirling. So that makes clubs a little trickier to pull. But the greens were really softer and it was kind of a tradeoff.   
  
  Q. What's your mindset going into tomorrow? Is there a number you're thinking of?  
 NICK WATNEY: Not really, no. I got to see where they are. For me personally, I don't do well when I set numbers or anything like that. So I'm just going to go out tomorrow and try to keep my head down and keep hopefully moving up the board and see where I end up.   
  
  Q. Is there a certain miss that you were fighting yesterday, something in your shot that you didn't have today or Thursday? Any trend at all to your shots?  
 NICK WATNEY: To be honest with you it was kind of both ways. That was the problem. I couldn't really play through it. I hit it poorly and drove it poorly and then when I did hit it on the green, it seemed like I 3-putted. So it was a really rotten day.   
  
  Q. Have you ever had a bigger disparity from -- in a three-day stretch, sometimes you go one high, one low like you did the first two days, but to come back and have another low one, that's unusual?  
 NICK WATNEY: Not really. I guess there's a first time for everything, but...  
  
  Q. Not even as a junior or something?  
 NICK WATNEY: Not that I can remember. Not 12 shots, you know.   
 (Laughter.)  
 That's a lot.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT