THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY MORGAN STANLEY
May 29, 2008
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Great playing today. Five birdies, an eagle. How about those bogey saves at 17 and 1? 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I put it in some pretty bad spots out there. I played really well, but on 17 there and No. 1, yeah, so those were good bogeys. 

 Q. That was some start, 5-under through 6?
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, making some putts and hit a lot of good shots. So hopefully that will continue. 

 Q. The good finish there, birdie at 7 and you played 8 and 9 well. 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, after 3-putting No. 6 I was a little frustrated. So it was good to birdie 7 and make two solid pars.

 Q. Talk about the round. Obviously we have been hearing conditions are tough, but you were able to manage it. 
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, the greens are firming up a little bit. I played very well today. Had a lot of chances and was able to make a few.

 Q. You had some success on the par-5s, I want to say 11 an eagle and then another one on 15. 
 NICK WATNEY: Birdie 11, and eagle 15. But yeah, three good shots on 15. And 11 was lucky to make four, but I'll take it. 

 Q. What happened on 15? Talk about the shots there. 
 NICK WATNEY: 15, I hit a good drive, 4-iron, just over the bunker and holed about a 60 foot chip or something.

 Q. How tough is it out there?
 NICK WATNEY: Well, the rough's up and the greens are firm so if you don't drive it well you got a tough time getting it close to the flag. But hopefully the greens will continue to firm up throughout the week and they will be a challenge.

 Q. Getting your name up near the top of the leaderboard obviously and on day one getting yourself in position, just your mindset now and going into tomorrow?
 NICK WATNEY: It won't change. I just got to keep playing steady and take my opportunities when they come. But like I said, if you don't put it in good position, you just got to try to take your par.

 Q. How much tougher can this place get? I mean, if it stays dry. They're saying it might rain tomorrow, but if it doesn't?
 NICK WATNEY: I don't know. I guess we'll see. It's definitely firm and more firm than it was the past two days. So I guess we shall see.

 Q. How do you like the greens? The way they're rolling today?
 NICK WATNEY: Very fast. I like them. I think they're great. But you got to be very careful on those downhillers. 

 Q. But where do you like to be after the first round? What's your favorite spot?
 NICK WATNEY: I would like to be leading by 10, obviously. But I think I'm in a good place, a couple off the lead. The first couple days are just -- it doesn't really matter where you are. You just got to get in position for the weekend. So I think I'm in a good place. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT