ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
March 28, 2008
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Nick, as a mini-Tour player they always told me the key to playing on the PGA TOUR was being able to get the ball up-and-down on days when you didn't have your best game.  I understand today you could have gotten it up-and-down out of the golf compartment out of a Volkswagen. 
 NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, today was a weird day.  I drove it decent but didn't hit my irons very well, and luckily when I did, I was able to convert the chances.  I put it in some reasonably easy spots to get up-and-down. 

 Q.  Talk about the difference in today and yesterday. 
 NICK WATNEY:  I think as far as the conditions, just a little less wind, made it a little easier for scoring.  Maybe a few easier pin placements, also, and with the wind being a little less, the par-5s were a little more reachable. 

 Q.  Anything you're going to head out and work on today? 
 NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, definitely my iron play.  I need to tighten that up a bit. 

 Q.  After a round like that, is that a confidence-building round?  I mean, you scored well. 
 NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, it is.  I feel like I maybe could have done better.  To shoot 5-under is encouraging, so I'm looking forward to the weekend. 

 Q.  I guess familiar territory, this is kind of where you wanted to be after two? 
 NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, played a nice round today to get back in the tournament, and hopefully I keep it going on the weekend. 

 Q.  5-under, that's a very good round, but did it go as smooth as you wanted? 
 NICK WATNEY:  Not really.  I didn't hit the ball as well as -- certainly as well as last year, so I've got some work to do this afternoon.  I'm in a good place. 

 Q.  Playing as the defending champion, how is that different from somewhere else? 
 NICK WATNEY:  Well, it's my first time.  It's a little different feeling, but at the same time I've got some good vibes from this place, and I'm glad to be back. 

 Q.  When that wind cuts out, this course is very, very playable.  You can score quite a bit when the wind is not blowing? 
 NICK WATNEY:  It's definitely easier.  Yesterday when we teed off the wind was blowing pretty good, and par was a good score on a lot of holes.  When it lays down, it plays much easier. 

 Q.  You talked about good vibes.  Was there a certain point today where it kind of went back to that final round last year and you sort of felt a comfort zone? 
 NICK WATNEY:  It's kind of been that way since I've been here, the whole week.  It wasn't really today or yesterday, just driving in and remembering last year, last time I was here, which was just a dream come true.  So good vibes have been here all week. 

 Q.  I know we asked you about being the defending champion.  Is it more pressure knowing that you had a good round today and maybe some people do have a certain bull's-eye on you, knowing that you did play here on the weekend last year so well? 
 NICK WATNEY:  I wouldn't say pressure.  I mean, I'm really looking forward to the challenge.  I know I'm going to have to play really well to repeat, so -- I'm more looking forward to it than feeling any pressure. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT