ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
March 26, 2008
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE:  We just want to welcome the defending champion to the Zurich Classic of New Orleans, Nick Watney.  Here we are a year later.  This may be dramatic, but since your life has changed, becoming a PGA TOUR champion, just a couple general comments if, in fact, that is the case a year later.  Welcome back.  Just some general thoughts. 
 NICK WATNEY:  Well, I mean, I don't know if life has changed too much, but definitely maybe my goals have changed a little bit.  But I'm still really would like to improve, and hopefully I'll get a couple more wins soon. 
 DOUG MILNE:  I just asked you about how you played today.  It was a little too early, but a couple comments on how you're playing headed into the week. 
 NICK WATNEY:  I feel good about my game.  I played decent in Florida a couple weeks ago.  Actually I played pretty well at Bay Hill, had a little streak going there on Saturday.  But overall I feel like I'm playing pretty well. 

 Q.  You were talking about how your goals have changed.  Anything specific?  I know after you won you had a couple Top 10s but it might not have been what you were looking for. 
 NICK WATNEY:  Well, I think after winning -- I liked it so much I was really wanting to do it again really soon, and definitely started pressing maybe.  I don't know, people say trying too hard, trying to force things.  So the second half of the year was a little disappointing. 
 But I feel like I'm on the right track and improving. 

 Q.  Is that almost like a hangover effect kind of from winning? 
 NICK WATNEY:  I don't know about that.  I mean, I think hangover effect lasts maybe a week or two, but this was -- when I would get in position, definitely try and force things and maybe looking ahead as opposed to just -- last year here I did a really good job of just staying in the moment.  I think mentally it's where I need to improve most. 

 Q.  What have you done this year that's helped that, as well? 
 NICK WATNEY:  Well, I think just -- I kind of took a step back in the off-season and worked with Butch Harmon, and we had it planned what we wanted to do physically, but also I definitely need to get better mentally.  I think that's my biggest weakness right now. 

 Q.  So are there specific drills that Butch has given you to make that stronger? 
 NICK WATNEY:  Mentally? 

 Q.  Yeah. 
 NICK WATNEY:  We talk but haven't done any drills, but we've talked about situations. 

 Q.  How did you like the way the course played this morning? 
 NICK WATNEY:  I think it's in really, really good shape.  It's going to be -- hitting into the greens especially is going to be difficult because they're firm and fast, so you've got to be pretty precise with your irons.  I like how the course is set up. 

 Q.  Is it much different than last year? 
 NICK WATNEY:  You know, it's not too much different.  I think this year the fairways may be a bit softer, but the greens are still firm.  I would say that's the biggest difference.  The ball might not be going as far. 

 Q.  I think there's one person in the Top 10 here this week.  Is this a tournament that just gets hurt because of where it falls in the schedule?  Because from everybody I've talked to here, they all love coming here. 
 NICK WATNEY:  You know, I don't know if I can really pinpoint why myself.  I guess it is -- after a World Golf event and two weeks before The Masters, I think some of the top players might take this week off just because of the rest factor.  But I don't think the golf course has anything to do it with it or the city.  I just think it's where it falls on the schedule. 

 Q.  If you weren't defending champion, would you come to this event? 
 NICK WATNEY:  I would.  I like it here.  I mean, that's really tough to say.  I came last year and I wasn't defending champion.  But I think I would come. 

 Q.  You sound almost as if it's gotten harder now that you've won a tournament than it was to get the first one. 
 NICK WATNEY:  I would just say it's different.  I mean, when you first come out you definitely want to get the first win, but now that I've done it, I may have higher expectations.  Like I said, trying to force things and stuff like that, which doesn't always work out.  I would say it's a different kind of challenge to win the second time. 

 Q.  Which is tougher from the standpoint of the first victory or the second one? 
 NICK WATNEY:  I think the first would be tougher just because once you've done it, then I think there's a little bit of change, definitely confidence.  There's no excuse for experience.  That's how the saying goes.  I would say the first one would be slightly more difficult. 
 DOUG MILNE:  Just talk a little bit about your schedule.  What are you looking at the next couple months as far as your schedule? 
 NICK WATNEY:  Well, I think I'm going to take next week off, take Houston off and then play Augusta and then take Hilton Head off and then play three in a row from there, Byron Nelson, Wachovia and PLAYERS. 
 DOUG MILNE:  How excited are you for Augusta? 
 NICK WATNEY:  I'm very, very excited about Augusta.  I was there last week, and it just was a really special place, and I'm very excited for the tournament. 

 Q.  Could you imagine -- I know there's talk about guys like Davis Love is not eligible, having to win either this week or next week to get in?  Could you imagine having to do that? 
 NICK WATNEY:  It's definitely a tough challenge.  I think there's pretty much only one guy that can almost win on command.  That's definitely a tough challenge. 

 Q.  Other than the pressure of winning a second one, how has winning changed your life? 
 NICK WATNEY:  I mean, I think -- everything that's happened, I would never trade it.  It's been a great year.  Coming back here -- it hasn't been quite a year yet, but I still have some great memories.  My sponsor Lexus gave me a car this week (smiling).  It's all good things that have happened. 
 DOUG MILNE:  All right, Nick, thanks for joining us.  We appreciate it.  Best of luck this week. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT