FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 7, 2015
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You started the day in the mix and you're going to head into tomorrow with a chance to win this tournament.  How do you rate your play today?NICK WATNEY: Well, it was interesting, I felt like I played really well for the most part, I thought I was under control and I shot even par, which two weeks ago at the Humana I would have done down the road if I did that.  But today I actually moved up.  I mean I moved closer to the lead, so overall I'm pleased with the way I'm playing and I'm just really excited for the opportunity tomorrow.Q. Do you think a 72 will work again tomorrow?NICK WATNEY: No, I don't think that would win.  I don't think it would move down that much, but no, it's not going to work tomorrow.Q. When you go into the final round in the mix with a lot of players also in the mix, what kind of mentality do you have to have when you fairways a tough golf course like you're facing?NICK WATNEY: I think the most important thing is just to pay attention to yourself, because guys are going to come out hot, hopefully when you're in position you're one of them, but guys are going to come out hot, but there's a lot of course out there, so I think the most important thing is just to enjoy it and embrace the challenge and I think every player if you ask them on Thursday morning if they have a chance to going into Sunday if they were just one or two shots back, they would take it.  So it's going to be a lot of fun.Q. This is a position that you're basically familiar with.  Remind me what the situation for you was after the third round when you won this thing and what was the night like, what was Saturday night like for you in these situations?NICK WATNEY: I think I was in third place, but I was maybe four back, four or five back, actually, going into that round.  So, I'm a little bit closer to the lead this time, but there's a lot more guys, it's a lot more crowded, so it's going to be fun.  This is why we play and I'm looking forward to the challenge.Q. A lot of people were talking about how tough this course is, even with the conditions looking nice and what usually is a nice Saturday round here?NICK WATNEY: Yeah, it's a brutal golf course, when they have the rough up, it's healthy, and the greens are relatively firm, you can get out of position really quickly. So, it's a tough course, like you said, perfect conditions and just a couple under par was moving up a lot of spots.  So, the golf course is definitely a challenge.Q. I know obviously you have to play your own game but what is it like when you're playing with the leader and you go, okay, he's here, I got to keep pace with him shot for shot.  Talk about that?NICK WATNEY: Well, it's Saturday, so you want to say within shouting distance, but at the same time, I would rather have a lead tomorrow than today.  So, it's -- you pay attention a little bit, just to know where he's at, but at the same time, especially around here, you got to take care of yourself.Q. Is there a number you're looking for tomorrow or something about your game you got to work on just so you can get the win?NICK WATNEY: It's really tough to tell.  Depending upon if they water the greens and they make them a little softer, then guys could shoot -- -- somebody really close, 8-under, you know, could shoot 67 and all of a sudden 72's aren't so good anymore.  So it's tough to tell tonight -- I'm not really thinking of a number I just want to have a chance coming down the last few holes.Q. A little dryer this morning.  Was it firmer and faster and tougher today?NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I think so.  The rough's up and any time that happens, when the greens are even a little bit firm, it makes things really interesting.  So, yeah, I would say today was probably the toughest we have seen.Q. And how do you maintain your focus and stay in the moment?  Obviously a win in your home state early in the year would mean a lot, but how do you stay in the moment and stay focused?NICK WATNEY: Well I love it.  This is why we play.  This is why we come and practice and all that stuff.  This is what it's all about.  So you just got to enjoy it.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT