MERCEDES-BENZ CHAMPIONSHIP
January 3, 2008
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DOUG MILNE:  Nick Watney, we'd like to welcome you to the media center of the Mercedes-Benz Championship.  Obviously you wouldn't be here if you hadn't played very well, which you did today.  You've got the sole lead, 5-under 68.  Anyway, just a couple opening comments.  What you've been doing in the off-season, how's your game?  Obviously it's in good shape.   
 NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, in the off-season I took it pretty easy.  I think I'm the type that does well with some time off, so I definitely did that.  And then my game, you know, I worked decently hard with Butch in December and got a few things squared away and really tried to work on my putting and short game.  I did that well today, so hopefully it keeps paying off.   
 DOUG MILNE:  We've heard a couple of comments from people that have said this is a course that really has a positive impact on some of the more veteran players, the Vijays and the Stuart Applebys, and if you look at the top three names on the leaderboard it's guys that have never played here before, you, Daniel Chopra and Brandt Snedeker.  Just a couple comments on the course itself and how it lends itself to you new guys out here.   
 NICK WATNEY:  I think maybe they say that because the greens are very grainy, but my caddie was really good today -- I think for me personally with the green, if I don't know what a putt is going to do, then I'll just play grain.  So it worked out today.   
  
  Q.  What's the sensation like when a couple years ago you're playing for WAC championships and then today you're at the Mercedes?   
 NICK WATNEY:  I think it's cool.  I think in the off-season more I kind of reflect back, and I think I've come a decent ways.  But at the same time, I mean, this is where I want to be.  I'm excited about the future.   
  
  Q.  When you say "decent ways," what would be the biggest difference from the time you left Fresno until now?   
 NICK WATNEY:  To be honest with you, it's just the amount of money I'm playing for.  Not playing for anything in college and playing for purses like this is a big change.  But it's where I want to be.  I love to play golf competitively.  I think that's got to be the biggest difference.   
  
  Q.  What are some of the biggest challenges you face when it's windy, rainy, sunny?   
 NICK WATNEY:  I think just keeping the grips dry, as always, in the rain.  And also, the wind actually when it's blowing that hard, you're not going to get fooled by it.  You pretty much know what direction it's coming from.  You definitely need to control your ball, so I was able to do that pretty well today.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever played in wind similar to this anywhere?   
 NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, I mean, a couple times.  A couple years ago it was pretty windy over at the Sony, and actually last year at the Hope.  Nobody associates that with wind, but the last day it was really, really windy.  You know, you just kind of -- everybody is out there, so you've just got to -- it could make you focus a little more because if you hit a loose shot you could pay a really big penalty.  It kind of makes you grind it out.   
  
  Q.  What's the biggest challenge as a first-time guy here on this course in these conditions?   
 NICK WATNEY:  I would have to say the greens, just learning the grain and knowing the grain.  It's very strong.  Some putts downwind, down grain are extremely fast, where into the grain it feels like you're putting on like Velcro almost.  I think that's probably the biggest challenge of a first-timer.   
 DOUG MILNE:  I'm just looking at your stats here, and your back nine you didn't miss a green or a fairway in regulation.  Were you aware of that?  Was the wind any different between the front and the back?   
 NICK WATNEY:  No.  I mean --   
  
  Q.  You only missed two of each on the front, so it's not like there was a dramatic difference.   
 NICK WATNEY:  I would say the fairways are generally pretty generous here, and the greens are also fairly big.  If you can get the ball in play -- and I also -- because of the wind I felt like I played very conservatively with a lot of irons.  A couple times the wind laid down, which was nice, but for the most part the wind was the same on the front and back.   
  
  Q.  Being a WAC guy, were you paying attention to Hawaii in the Sugar Bowl?   
 NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, it was a pretty big deal over here, almost like a national holiday.  Yeah, I definitely watched the game.   
  
  Q.  What was your reaction?   
 NICK WATNEY:  (Smiling) well, it's unfortunate they let Georgia look like they were playing really, really well right now.  I would love to see a playoff, you know, because Georgia and USC are playing so well.  It was probably -- I'm sure it was disappointing for the folks over here.   
  
  Q.  How good is a 68 today in these conditions?   
 NICK WATNEY:  I mean, I'm very happy with it.  It's got to be decent.  These guys are -- everybody that's won is here, or most of the guys that have won are playing here.  I'm very pleased, but at the same time it's the first day of the first tournament of the year, so we've got a long ways to go.   
  
  Q.  Have you ever been a first-round leader before on TOUR?   
 NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, a couple times.  A couple times.   
 DOUG MILNE:  I was with you in New Orleans when you won your first TOUR event, and I recall something about you saying, I'm numb, I don't even know what to feel.  Almost a full year has gone by since and here you are leading an event that is comprised of just winners.  Just talk along the lines of just your confidence level since getting that win and here you are at the Mercedes-Benz Championship leading a field of nothing but proven winners.   
 NICK WATNEY:  Well, I mean, it's definitely good for my confidence.  I would say I was a little bit disappointed with the way the second half of the year went last year.  Like I said earlier, my putting, I think I lacked the most in my putting, in putting last year.  So I tried to key in on that in the off-season.  I think it's kind of like a ladder and I'm climbing the ladder slowly.  I just really want to keep improving and hopefully come back here many times.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Lastly, if you wouldn't mind, if you would just run us through your birdies and bogeys and just give us some clubs and yardages as best you can.   
 NICK WATNEY:  Okay, No. 3, I made about a 15-footer, downhill, big breaker, it was the kind where you're obviously trying to make it, but at the same time you don't want it to get away from you.  So that was nice.   
 No. 4, I hit a really nice iron about 12 feet I would say.   
 No. 5, I hit it on the green and two-putted.   
 No. 7 was actually a very poor bogey.  I had a 9-iron to the green and hit it left and wasn't able to get up-and-down.   
 No. 9, I hit a nice wedge about eight feet under the hole.   
 15, I got up-and-down from about 50 yards short and right of the green.   
 And then 17, I made about a 30-footer, very pleased to make that putt.   
 DOUG MILNE:  Nick, we appreciate you coming in.  It's always nice to have you back.  Best of luck tomorrow and on the weekend, and hopefully we'll see you right back here again tomorrow.  Thanks for coming in.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT