ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 20, 2007
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  You had 67 today.  Talk a little bit about your round. 
 NICK WATNEY:  Well, I played very well.  It was pretty easy round, made a few putts and didn't get into a lot of trouble.  So it was a good round. 

 Q.  You're one off the lead heading into tomorrow right now.  Talk a little bit about where you feel with your position and what you're looking forward to tomorrow. 
 NICK WATNEY:  Well, I mean, I love my position.  One back is always good.  You know, I just can't really do much about it.  Just got to go out and try to keep everything the same and see where I am then. 

 Q.  What do you like about this course that maybe fits your eye? 
 NICK WATNEY:  I think it's a good driving course, and right now I'm doing that really well. 

 Q.  It's a little confusing out there with you and your playing partner Jerry Smith wearing the same outfit today.  Were your caddies confused at all? 
 NICK WATNEY:  No, we were -- they kept us in the right order. 

 Q.  Talk a little bit about supporting the people from Virginia Tech wearing the Titleist this week, supplying you guys with their colors on your hats. 
 NICK WATNEY:  Well, if it does even -- if it helps even one person, then it's worth it for us.  Hopefully we can do a little bit to help ease the pain that they're feeling up there. 

 Q.  I guess you're feeling a lot better after that round? 
 NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, I feel pretty good. 

 Q.  How did you like the way you finished?  You take one look now at the leaderboard, and boom, next thing you know you're right up there. 
 NICK WATNEY:  Well, yeah, a few late birdies.  It's always nice to leave the golf course with that.  But I played pretty steady all day and just got a few to drop at the end there. 

 Q.  Do you think if you can continue to play the way you played today that you'll have a good chance at winning this week?  Some big names up on top, but do you think this tournament is in your reach? 
 NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, I mean, I'm one back going into the last two days.  If I can keep playing pretty steady, I definitely think I have a chance. 

 Q.  Have you been in this position before? 
 NICK WATNEY:  Yeah, there's still a long way to go.  A lot can happen.  You know, I've just got to keep doing the same thing. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT