CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 6, 2006
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD BUDNICK:  We welcome Nick Watney after a 1 under 71, round 2 with the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro.

Nick a bit of a different day yesterday both in terms of scoring and weather.
NICK WATNEY:  Yeah.  Yesterday felt like it was about 95 and today was    I don't know if it got to 60.  The weather said it wasn't supposed to but with the wind and the rain, it definitely made it a little tougher to be aggressive and get the ball close, so a lot different, lot different conditions.
TODD BUDNICK:  You started off with two birdies on    your only two birdies of the day on your first two holes and then a bunch of pars and a little bogey.

Just talk about how the conditions kept you from making more birdies.
NICK WATNEY:  Yeah.  Started off, I was swinging well and had a few more opportunities early but then didn't hit it as well as I did yesterday so I made a lot of good par saves and, you know, it's tough to get the ball close because the wind was, you know, kind of gusting and pretty tricky.

So, all in all, not a bad day.
TODD BUDNICK:  Okay.  We'll take some questions.

Q    Do you feel like you've been close to winning I guess the AT&T?  Is this, you know, even closer, do you feel like with two rounds to go, or what's your feeling on that?
NICK WATNEY:  Well, yeah.  I mean I'm not sure where I'm going to finish today.  We've still got a whole 'nother wave to go.

I played pretty well up until now and just got to keep going one shot at a time and see where I end up.

Q    Nick, when it's raining out there as intense as it was early and then it stops, do you see a difference in the greens from when you first tee off to when you are coming in?
NICK WATNEY:  I think they might have dried out a little bit but rain on and off a few times, start up and then stop and there wasn't too much difference.  The greens were still pretty pacey.

Q    Would you rather see a steady throughout    consistency of the weather or does this spurt start playing with your mind a little any?
NICK WATNEY:  I think only if you let it.  I mean it's nice to play in no rain but, you know, when it did come, it only come for a certain amount of time so that was kind nice, not to have it rain all day.

Q    You played with Michelle in a tournament.  Which tournament did you play with Michelle Wie?
NICK WATNEY:  I played the John Deere last year.

Q    What kind of circus was that and what did you learn from that?
NICK WATNEY:  I'm sorry, what?

Q    What kind circus and what did you learn from that?
NICK WATNEY:  Well, I mean, it was definitely a circus.  Lot of people, lot of media and she handled it very well.  I mean, I guess, it's kind of becoming old hat for her but it was just kind of try to block it out and I guess you can only imagine what Tiger goes through pretty much everyday he plays, but it's a good thing, I guess.
TODD BUDNICK:  Any other questions for Nick?

Just go through your birdies, Nick, and the bogey.
NICK WATNEY:  Yeah.  The first hole I hit a sand wedge to about four feet away.  It was nice to start like that because it was raining pretty well, pretty good.

The next hole was downwind so I hit a 6 iron on the green and 2 putted.  And then the bogey, missed a fairway and laid it up and then it's a pretty tricky pin.  There's only about nine paces of flat green there.  It's two swales so I hit a poor shot, disappointed bogeying a par 5.
TODD BUDNICK:  Couple saves?
NICK WATNEY:  Made a nice save on 14, 17 and No. 6.  No. 6, I hit a poor drive to the left and had to chip it out and then got it up and down from about 80 yards.

14, I drove it in the fairway bunker and missed the green and played a nice chip and then 17 I hit an awful shot, short and right and made about a 6 footer for par.
TODD BUDNICK:  What was that?
NICK WATNEY:  6 iron.
TODD BUDNICK:  Anything else?  Robert.

Q    When you have saves like those, as erratic as you might be, is that a good confidence builder, too?
NICK WATNEY:  Yeah.  No question.  Keeps your momentum going and especially on a day like today where pars are pretty good, that it's a good thing to not take a step backwards.
TODD BUDNICK:  Alright.  Thank you Nick.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT