CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 5, 2006
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Nick Watney into the interview area.  Nick with a 64 today, not only ties the low round of the day but also ties his career low round which he's now done four times, most recent was in the second round of the 2006 EDS Byron Nelson championship.

Nick, just talk about your round a little bit today and what was good.
NICK WATNEY:  Well, I putted very well, made some early so it was nice.  Putts has kind of been holding me back lately so it was nice to see some putts fall.

JOE CHEMYCZ:  Talk about your putting.  What's the difference?
NICK WATNEY:  I worked from Jim from Scotty Cameron who was out on the Titleist van.  He gave me a few ideas and they really worked today so hopefully they'll keep working throughout the week.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Questions?

Q    Is it harder to shoot a number when you see those numbers already up there on the board?
NICK WATNEY:  It is and it isn't.  I mean when you see that you're 8 behind before you tee off it's a little bit daunting but, at the same time, you know that there's some good scores out there.  So, works both ways, I guess.

Q    Talk about going back to qualifying school.  You missed out last year, 125.
NICK WATNEY:  I mean at the time it was definitely was not much fun and I didn't want to do it but looking back, you know, I think it gave me some confidence to get through that and might have been the best thing.

I mean you never want to go back there but it worked out for me so

Q    You got your card for next year already.

Does that make you maybe go at pins a little bit more?
NICK WATNEY:  No question.  It's definitely a huge weight lifted off your shoulders to be able not to have to worry about that and just enjoy playing golf and a big distraction, you know, that's not there.

Q    Nick, can you talk a little bit about the fact that at this course, like a lot of courses, you almost have to go out and throw 64, 66s everyday because you have to go low.  More pressure?
NICK WATNEY:  Well, I mean when things don't go your way, maybe early then you can definitely put more pressure on yourself but, like I said, when you do see good rounds, then sometimes if you do get off to a slow start it's easy to stay patient because you know there's a possibility to make a lot of birdies.

Q    Nick, what did you maybe learn last year in your rookie season on Tour?
NICK WATNEY:  I don't know if we have enough time to tell you all that.  Just I learned a lot about what I needed to improve on and what the best players, what makes them so good or little bit of what makes them so good and also just how to    well, I'm still learning, but how to handle the travel and when to play a practice round, when to just go back to the hotel.

There's a lot of little things that are kind of individual.  There's not a book or anything that maps it out perfectly.  There's definitely a lot to learn for me.

Q    What time will you go back to the hotel, what will you do after today?
NICK WATNEY:  Well, I mean I played pretty well so I don't have to do a ton of practice but I'll probably putt and chip a little while, maybe hit just a few balls and then go back and try to watch the playoffs or football game tonight, just get away from golf because once you're away from the golf course, it does you no good to think about it.

Q    Is it a good indication from last year to this year you missed the cut here last year, obviously you're better this year?
NICK WATNEY:  That's definitely one of the advantages of playing here the second time, just knowing a little bit about where not to hit it and where you can be a little more aggressive.

I mean it's definitely a good thing to be coming back to a golf course rather than playing it the first time.

Q    Do you feel you should have won by now or is that something you really can't
NICK WATNEY:  I'd really like to have won by now.  I know there's a lot of good players that have taken a little while but, at the same time, I mean I guess you try to put yourself in that position as much as possible and learn, you know, every time you're there how you react.

So, I think I'm definitely closer to winning now than I was last year.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  How much did the last week help you with the Top 10 finish at Southern Farm?
NICK WATNEY:  Well, I mean I played well so that definitely had some momentum coming in here and I mean it's always confidence    or success breeds confidence as they say.

So, I hit the ball extremely well last week.  I didn't putt all that great so I worked on that a lot coming here and, you know, paid off today.  So, hopefully, I can keep it up and try to improve on that finish last week.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Take us through your card real quick with birdies starting at 10.
NICK WATNEY:  Yeah.  All three of the    two other guys in my group hit it, we all had about the same line.  Michael Allen hit a really good putt that missed and Brandt Jobe made about a 25 footer so I made a 20 footer, kind of got a line from those two.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  12?
NICK WATNEY:  I hit a good iron in there about six, eight feet and I've been missing some of those lately so I made that one.  It was nice, gave me a little confidence early.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  13?
NICK WATNEY:  13, I hit it just short of the green and made about an 8 footer after chipping it.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  14?
NICK WATNEY:  14, I made about a 20 footer.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  16?
NICK WATNEY:  16, I made like a 50 footer.  It was a bonus.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  1?
NICK WATNEY:  No. 1, about 15 feet.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Bogeyed 3.
NICK WATNEY:  Bogeyed 3.  Got aggressive and shot at the pin.  Left a 5 footer and missed it.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  4?
NICK WATNEY:  I hit a good iron in to about 12 feet.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  7?
NICK WATNEY:  7, about 15 feet.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  9?
NICK WATNEY:  9, I 2 putted, made about a 5 footer.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Made some putts today.
NICK WATNEY:  Yeah.  I don't know.  I hadn't made any for awhile and then I made a lot today so funny game, I guess.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Okay.  Alright.  That's Nick.  Play well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT