FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 6, 2015
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Nick Watney who not only played himself into the weekend, he played himself into the mix for the weekend with that 7-under 65 on the North Course.  What was working so well for you, Nick?  NICK WATNEY: It was a pretty easy day.  I kept the ball out of trouble and I putted really nicely.  So, any time you can do that, usually you have a pretty good score.   Q.  You've had success here on this golf course.  What do you love about Torrey Pines?  NICK WATNEY: Everything, really.  I love the area of San Diego.  I love California.  Coming here, I mean par is usually pretty good, especially around the South Course.  So usually if you keep the ball in play and make a few putts, you'll be close to the lead.   Q.  It's been awhile since we have seen you hold a championship trophy on the PGA TOUR.  As you move forward in your career and start 2015, how important is it to improve your game?  Have you talked about goals with your team and what are they?  NICK WATNEY: Yeah, definitely talked about goals and there's nothing like winning.  It solves every problem you could have as a player. The more cuts you make, so, yeah, I would like to have a lot more chances and I'm excited for this year, kind of a fresh start and I know if I can keep playing well I would love to have a few opportunities to hoist a couple trophies.   Q.  How did you feel about your round in general?  NICK WATNEY: I felt great.  I came out here this morning, I was even par, I saw the lead at 8-under par.  I'm thrilled.  Any time you can shoot under par on the South is good.  I birdied my last hole, but kept it pretty simple.  So looking forward to the weekend.   Q.  What do you like about this course?  It seems to work for you.  NICK WATNEY: I like everything.  I like the area, I like the golf course, especially on the South Course, par is good, which isn't always the case some of these early tournaments, the Humana is a birdiefest, so it was nice to play a golf course where par is good.  We got a long way to go, but I love coming to San Diego.   Q.  Bogey-free, right?  NICK WATNEY: Yeah.   Q.  What does that say about where your game is?  NICK WATNEY: Hopefully it's pretty good.  A few times I got in trouble I caught some good lies.  I putted great over there, which isn't always a guarantee.  So, so far, so good.   Q.  Being a past champion is that something that definitely helps with momentum going into the weekend?  NICK WATNEY: Yeah, it's always nice to come back to a place you've had success.  I really like this course.  I'm real excited to be somewhat near the lead and really looking forward to the challenge of trying to finish it out.   Q.  (No Microphone.)  NICK WATNEY: Yeah, they're great.  The weather's perfect, it's not too tricky, you're not going to get any wind gusts or anything unexpected, so the conditions are really nice.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT