JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2019
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Moving day is said for a reason.  I think you did a nice move to put yourself in contention.
NICK WATNEY: Yeah, the course is in such great shape that you kind of know teeing off, even par is not going to cut it.  That being said, the greens are a little firmer and faster, so you can get in trouble without hitting too bad of a shot.  I played really nice today, really clean, and I'm really looking forward to tomorrow.
Q. Talk about the tee game.  Some jaw-dropping drives out there.  You pounded a few, but as firm as it is right now, how important is it to get into position to put wedges in your hand.
NICK WATNEY: Very important.  If you can hit the fairway, then you can definitely control the ball into the green.  It's a huge advantage to be playing from there, and it opens up the whole golf course.  Driving is definitely important.
Q. A chance for a lot of FedExCup points tomorrow, which I know is always important.  What are you most proud of in the game or most excited about in the game taking it into Sunday?
NICK WATNEY: I think my mindset, and really just enjoying playing.  I've kind of been really focused on results and what I don't want to do, and this week I've been doing a great job of -- and other rounds leading up to this, but of staying in the moment, being present and enjoying the opportunity.
Q. Great round out there today.  What went well for you?
NICK WATNEY: I played really steady.  Didn't really have too much stress out there and putted very nicely.  All in all, everything was pretty solid.
Q. Where is your confidence headed into tomorrow being up at the top?
NICK WATNEY: Well, I'm just really excited for the chance to compete tomorrow.  Obviously the goal would be -- I mean, we all know what the goal would be, but all I can really control is myself, and I'm just, like I said, very excited for the opportunity.
Q. What do you take from this round that maybe you're going to carry with you into tomorrow?
NICK WATNEY: I would say just that my -- if I play well, then I'm pretty good, I guess.  Tomorrow, even though the stakes will be high and all that stuff, it doesn't change what my goal is, and that's just to execute.  That's what I'm going to try to do tomorrow.
Q. Local caddie on the bag; how big of a help was he in your attack?
NICK WATNEY: He's great.  I mean, he's a help every week, so this week isn't anything special in that regard.  But it's definitely special for him.  He's getting called out almost every hole out there, and he's been here his whole life, so he's kind of a -- I don't know if local celebrity would be too much of a -- maybe out on the golf course he would be.
Yeah, we're going to enjoy it tomorrow.
Q. 14 is a tricky par-4.  What's been your strategy?
NICK WATNEY: I'm trying to drive it up by the green.  It all depends on the pin placement, if you're going to miss it right or left, and today I finally hit it on the correct side and was able to put it together.
Q. It's been a few years since you've won; are you able to use those experiences?
NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I hope it's like riding a bike, I don't completely forget.  But what it all boils down to is playing each individual shot.  I can't do anything even if I were to birdie the first three, still got a long way to go.  I'm just going to kind of hang in there and do what I do and see if I've got a chance.
Q. You've got a clean card each of the last two days.  Is the focus that you've had there with each and every shot pretty good?
NICK WATNEY: Yes.  That's kind of what my focus has been.  I'm real happy with where my mechanics are and my physical game is good.  It's just a matter of executing, and it's been so far, so good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT