WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2014
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MARK STEVENS:   I'd like to welcome Nick Watney.   Nick, you got it to 14-under today.   Big putt at the end.   Kind of what was the strength of your round today and talk about that last shot also?
NICK WATNEY:   Well, the strength of my round was that it was a fairly easy day.   Hit a lot of fairways, lot of greens.   To birdie the last, especially that hole, is always a bonus.   Flag back there in the back right is tough spot.   So, I was happy to roll that in and I'm really excited for what tomorrow brings.
MARK STEVENS:   Questions?

Q.   When it's all bunched up like that, going into tomorrow, what's the mindset?   There will be a lot of birdies I imagine tomorrow.
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.   It doesn't really change.   I was one behind coming into today and nothing changed tomorrow.   I assume that when I tee off I probably won't be in the lead or tied for the lead so it's not like I'm protecting anything tomorrow.   Just more the same.   Hopefully make a few birdies and keep the mistakes down and have a chance coming down to the last few holes.

Q.   You talked yesterday about kind of an attitude adjustment.   When did that happen, what made you do it?   Did somebody talk to you and say --
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.   Well, I missed the cut at the British Open by a shot which to go over there and miss the cut is a terrible thing, especially kind of looking like the scores were going to go and it didn't, and I was really down and then I have a great team in my caddy and I sort of went to Canada and kind of said, I feel like my game is headed in a really good direction, haven't been getting the results but we just need to put our head down and play every week and just enjoy ourselves. 
I was getting to the point where I don't know what number, I felt I stopped looking because it was kind of depressing but getting to the point I was so far down the list that, you know, I needed to play, I needed -- I could go home and practice but what I really needed to work on was playing in competition.
So, I would say right around Canada was where the attitude shift came from and so far so good.

Q.   Nick, were you on the bad side of the draw at the British?
NICK WATNEY:   I played later/early.

Q.   That was the bad side, right?
NICK WATNEY:   That was the bad side.   But, I feel like those things equal out.   I have no excuses.   I definitely can think of a bunch of shots that I ended up missing the cut by.   But, yeah, I did play late/early.

Q.   I ask that because you were talking about how the cut looked like being a certain number and then it came back later in the day.
How has it been to balance the demands of playing professionally with being a new father?
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I don't want to say difficult because that puts a negative connotation on having a daughter but it's definitely been a learning process for me and I mean I wouldn't change anything about her being here but just difference in I guess time management is the biggest thing and wanting to be there for her and my wife and still, you know, try to become a good player.
So, it's been a learning process but hopefully I've gotten over the hump and there will be good golf from here on out.

Q.   What are the things that you've learned?
NICK WATNEY:   Well, like I said, biggest thing is time management.   Some nights she's not going to sleep very much and then I definitely need to help out a little more than just after a round go home and watch TV and lay around. 
That's not possible anymore (laughter).   It's been -- she's been a huge blessing but at the same time it's taken a little getting used to.

Q.   Nick, can you save the season in one week by winning tomorrow?
NICK WATNEY:   It would be a huge start, that's for sure.   I know I've had good years when I haven't won so having a year like this and end up winning a tournament would be -- yeah, it would be huge bonus and kind of I guess affirm what I've been working on. 
I feel like I've been hitting the ball really well all year, a lot better than my results have shown, so if I can make some putts tomorrow and actually do this, it would be -- yeah, it would save it, I would say.

Q.   You mentioned putting has that been the difference this week?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, it's been the difference the last month, really.   This is probably the best I've putted for three days so far in a row for a week or for the year. 
So, you know, when you're making putts, the game gets a lot easier.   You don't have to hit it as close, you don't have to take as many chances and still make some birdies.   That's a huge bonus.

Q.   Did you ask some of the other fathers about how they cope with newborns or anything like that?
NICK WATNEY:   I talked to Bill Haas quite a bit.   He has a son.

Q.   One year old.
NICK WATNEY:   I was pretty nervous beforehand.   He just said, hey, it's a big change but the best thing ever, and Webb has three kids now.   He's kind of helped me with -- helped me on a few things.   There's been -- the Tour is a bit of a traveling circus I guess.   We're all sort of doing life out here on the road.   The guys have been really nice about it.

Q.   Besides the attitude adjustment and the time management with the baby, what about your game has kicked in in the last month that has led to good play?
NICK WATNEY:   I think two things.   First of all, as I said the putting, my putting -- mostly putting, little bit of short game has been a big improvement and also just really enjoying -- this year has been a bit of a struggle but enjoying the process out here. 
This is what I love to do, play golf on the PGA Tour and I think sometimes after a long stretch or maybe not so good a golf that gets lost.
So, just enjoying myself, be it good times or bad, trying to learn through the bad and, you know, it's -- there's really no down side to playing the Tour.   I love the position I'm in and the challenge that I have tomorrow and hopefully I want to continue to do what I'm doing and have a chance coming down the stretch.
MARK STEVENS:   Okay.   Anybody else?   Thanks for your time.

Q.   I would like to ask you about the lady you work with.   You say you're working with a lady in the putting?
NICK WATNEY:   Not this week, though.

Q.   Last week.
NICK WATNEY:   Her name is Julie Elliott.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT