WYNDHAM CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2014
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nick, did you hit any good putts down the stretch off the edges, didn't go in?
NICK WATNEY:   Nice to get a few more there but overall very pleased and really excited for the weekend.

Q.   Looked like you had the speed down on the putts.
NICK WATNEY:   I did.   The greens seemed to be settling in now and this afternoon they were perfect.   I'm sure they will stay that way on the weekend and have some fun.

Q.   What's been going on last couple of weeks?   It wasn't a great year but it could end up being one.
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.   Just kind of getting back to the basics and I'm in the position that I'm.   I would love to start the year over but, like you said, I still got a few events to go so try to make the best of these.

Q.   Was there an attitude change, anything that sparked this?
NICK WATNEY:   There was an attitude change.   Feel sorry for myself and now I just, "Let's go".   I just want to play as long as I can and get hot at the right time, you can go a long ways in The Playoffs.   I'm real excited about where my game is going.   Like I said, I just want to do it.

Q.   You like you're headed to the top out there today?
NICK WATNEY:   It's easy to have fun when you're playing well.   Bill is a great guy and we had a good time.

Q.   Looking forward to seeing what happens this weekend.
NICK WATNEY:   Yes.

Q.   Nick, tremendous round out there.   If we can get in comments on your day.
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I played really well and I'm just happy to be up near the lead and I'm real excited for the weekend.

Q.   Pretty bunched up.   What do you think it is?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.   From what I understand, the weather is going to be good, the greens are great so, yeah, if you shoot even you're going to be left in the dust so it's like you say, bunched up.   There's a lot of really good players really close so it's going to be all go mode tomorrow.

Q.   What's going well for you?
NICK WATNEY:   Doing everything pretty well.   Today was pretty easy day, not a whole lot of stress and I made some putts when I had opportunities.   So, it was pretty simple golf, which is always good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT