BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2014
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Nick, another good day for you out there.   If we can get some comments?  
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, the course was great.   And I played pretty well.   I would have liked to have made a few more putts, but overall, you know if you would have told me 26 points after two days I would take it every time.   
So looking forward to the weekend.  
   
 Q.   Birdies that stand out today.   
NICK WATNEY:   Birdied‑‑ missed a short putt for birdie on No. 1, after I made the turn.   And then birdied the next two, which was nice.   So I guess in this format you always feel like you can get a few more.  
But like I said, 26 points I'll take it.  
   
 Q.   How has the Stableford system changed your approach this weekend?   
NICK WATNEY:   It doesn't change much except for you know eagles are worth two and a half times what a birdie is worth.   So there's a few times when it kind of enters your mind a little bit.   But overall, not much change.  
   
 Q.   Tell me, has there been a buzz amongst the players about having a new sponsor this year, does that change the tournament at all?  
NICK WATNEY:   I don't know if it changes the event once it starts.   But it's definitely nice to know that we're going to have the tournament for a while, and Barracuda has been great so far.   So it's only a good thing.  
   
 Q.   What have you learned after two rounds?  
NICK WATNEY:   That I'm playing well and that this is a really hard course to walk.   (Laughter).  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on the weekend, Nick.   
NICK WATNEY:   I gotta keep going.   Who knows what the guys are going to do this afternoon.   So whether I'm leading or behind, doesn't really matter.   We've got a long way to go, and just try to keep my head down and stay focused on where I'm at.  
   
 Q.   18 yesterday, eight today.   You played in the afternoon yesterday.   Does that make the afternoon round stand out more, given the conditions, et cetera?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I feel like 18's good.   No matter what time you play.   But, yeah, I'm definitely proud of that round yesterday.   I played great.   And the golf course isn't‑‑ there's some scorable holes but there's also a few really tough ones.   So anything over five or six points is a good day.  
   
 Q.   How does it feel knowing that you're going into the last two rounds as one of the leaders?  
NICK WATNEY:   It's great.   I mean, nowhere else you'd rather be, and it's really exciting.  
   
 Q.   Never been a foreign‑born player win this event.   I wonder, is that a coincidence, or is the elevation kind of a benefit for American‑born players?  
NICK WATNEY:   That's got to be a coincidence.   There's elevation in Europe and I think it's just a coincidence.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT