BARRACUDA CHAMPIONSHIP
July 30, 2014
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  JOHN BUSH:   Nick, welcome to the Barracuda Championship.   Just get some thoughts on being here.   
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, great to be back.   Pretty close to where I grew up, so looking forward to seeing a lot of friends and family.  
The course is great, so should be a good week.  
JOHN BUSH:   The Stableford that we're playing this week, your comments on that format and how it suits your game.   
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I think it will be fun.   It's the only one that we play for the year.   I think the course lends itself perfect to it.   Just a lot of chances, but also chances to‑‑ if you get too far off the fairways you get in the forest.  
So I think that will be good just to‑‑ there won't be‑‑ because it seems like the kind of course you could make a big number, but once you get to a double you just pick it up.   That'll be good for everyone.  
   
 Q.   Did you play in the International?  
NICK WATNEY:   International, yeah.   
   
 Q.   Right about when you started, huh, first couple three years?   
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.   And it's an interesting coincidence that it was in the mountains, too, so a lot of similarities.   
   
 Q.   I know you got an exemption here.   First one as a pro?  
NICK WATNEY:   Wasn't my first, but it was the first time I played any good in a TOUR event, so I have definitely a lot of good memories from that year.  
I think it was 2003.   
   
 Q.   That's what I was going to guess.   
NICK WATNEY:   Which makes me feel pretty old.   Yeah, no, it's a special place.   To come back to the west coast is always fun.  
   
 Q.   You've been an Akron guy for a number years now.   The fact that you're here means maybe the game has fallen a little bit.   You're playing well again.   Can you describe your last year or so?  
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, definitely hasn't been the results I was looking for this year.   Been some things going on off the course that maybe affected that.   Had a baby and had some back issues earlier this year.   
But, yeah, you know, I would love to be in Akron, but I'm here.   I'm going to enjoy it and hopefully make the most of it.  
   
 Q.   And what did you and your wife have?  
NICK WATNEY:   A little girl.  
   
 Q.   When was she born?  
NICK WATNEY:   In March.   March 10th, so about four and a half months.  
   
 Q.   Your first?  
NICK WATNEY:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Congrats.   
NICK WATNEY:   Thanks.  
   
 Q.   You've had a chance to play the course.   How is it playing?   
NICK WATNEY:   It's great.   It's very lush and the rough is thick.   Greens are speeding up.   So I think it'll be great for this format.   You know, greens are good, pretty quick, and fairways are generous, but the rough around the greens is really sticky.  
So if you drive it well, you'll have some scoring opportunities.   If not, could be pretty tough.   
   
 Q.   I think you mentioned friends and family.   Do you now how many people?   
NICK WATNEY:   I got 15 tickets that I'm handing out.   I don't know if other people are going to come, so I'm not sure how many exactly.   But, you know, maybe 20 or so.  
   
 Q.   Tied for 12th last week.   Best finish of the year.   Does that give you a little more confidence coming into this week?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, it's just a step in the right direction.   I mean, 12th is nothing to‑‑ it was a good result, but not great.   
Yeah, I think things are going in a really good direction.   I mean, just keep trying to improve and building and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Is there any one part of your game that you were having trouble with before?  
NICK WATNEY:   I actually hit the ball really well all year.   I haven't putted well at all.   That's the main glaring thing.   But it's getting better, and the more you make, the more you feel like you can make.  
If I can putt well, I think I'll have a good finish.  
   
 Q.   You played here a handful of times in college, too, right?  
NICK WATNEY:   Around here.   Not this golf course, but around here, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do you know how many times you played up here?   I think Wolf Run was probably one of the golf courses.   
NICK WATNEY:   Wolf Run was there.   I mea, I've been here with my family on vacation and whatnot.   I've been here a lot, mostly in the winter to ski and stuff.  
It's about two and a half, three hours from my home, so it's definitely a comfortable place to come.   
   
 Q.   How long have you been in Dixon now?  
NICK WATNEY:   I was born and raised there.   My parents still live there.   I don't live there anymore, but that's where my family is from.  
   
 Q.   Where are you living now?  
NICK WATNEY:   I split time between Austin, Texas, and Las Vegas.   My wife is from Austin, so...  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT