RBC CANADIAN OPEN
July 24, 2014
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Congratulations, good round today.   You had six birdies, a couple bogeys on the card.   You had a good look at 17, as well.   Your thoughts on how you played today?   
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I thought I played pretty well.   I got off to a nice start, probably left a few out there, but I guess you can say that a lot of days.   Pleased with the start, go home and get some rest.  
   
 Q.   You had a lot of rain yesterday.   How did the course play?   I would assume the greens were pretty receptive?  
NICK WATNEY:   They were, yeah.   We played on Tuesday and the front nine was pretty firm, and obviously with so much rain yesterday, it made it very much more scorable.   I think we're due for good weather, so we'll probably see the golf course toughen up a little bit.  
   
 Q.   How tough are these greens?   
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, there's quite a few little different sections, and if you can manage to get it in there kind of‑‑ you have some good looks, but if not you have some interesting putts.   Playing from the fairway is big, just to control the ball, and then once you get it on the green, hopefully you've got a good look.  
   
 Q.   State of your game right now?   You became a dad this year, took some time off.   Right now you're on the outside looking in at the FedExCup points.   Do you think you can make a run here?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, that's the plan.   Yeah, the game is pretty good, and I'm looking forward to a pretty good stretch of golf.   
   
 Q.   You've got to be pretty excited about your 66 today.   
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, it was good.   Coming to a new course you're not quite sure what's going to be a good score, and I played quite well.   I left a few out there, but for the most part I'm very, very pleased with the game.   I'll take 66 any day.   
   
 Q.   You haven't had a lot of success in Canada but a pretty good round here in the first round.   What went well here for you today at Royal Montreal?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I had a lot of good looks and was able to roll some in, which has been an issue this year, so overall feel good, and excited to get a good round under my belt.   It's a quarter of the way through the tournament so not much‑‑ still a long way to go, but so far, so good.   
   
 Q.   There's been a long delay since the last time that we've played here at Royal Montreal, 2001 for a regular TOUR event.   What do you notice about the golf course and how do you feel it fits your game?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, it's kind of two different nines.   The front nine is pretty classic, a lot of trees.   The back nine is a lot of water, a little more open.   It's always tough coming to a new course; you're not real sure what a good round is.   
But 66 I'll take any day.   I think the course will only get firmer from here, so it should be interesting by Sunday.   
   
 Q.   Right now you're outside the Playoffs looking in if it were to end today, but obviously it does not.   Right now you're not in the PGA or the Bridgestone, but you have an opportunity this week to do some damage.   What's your thought process on the last four weeks?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, obviously I need to move up, and not being in Bridgestone is definitely a‑‑ it sucks because I've played there the last five, six years or whatever it is.   Yeah, it's a bit of a reality check, and I definitely need to get going.   But like you say, we've got a few weeks, and hopefully good golf is here to stay.   
   
 Q.   Great start to the tournament.   Just get some comments.   
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, the golf course was a little softer than it was in the practice rounds, obviously, from the rain yesterday.   I think it was as easy as we're going to see it.   I was able to play a decent round.   
   
 Q.   People are saying that the course will get‑‑ that over the weekend you might have rain again.   Do you think that will change things a lot as this tournament goes along?  
NICK WATNEY:   Not really.   I think from what I‑‑ the forecast I saw was no rain, so the firmer it gets, the more difficult, obviously.   If it does get rain, it'll just mean the scores are a little bit lower, but it won't have a huge effect on it.  
   
 Q.   What does it mean for you to have a good first round?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, it's nice, you know, you're not playing behind the 8‑ball to make a cut, and it's nice to play good once the gun goes off.   Golf is a little bit easier on Tuesday and Wednesday.   But to play a good round is always a good thing, and getting off to a good start means‑‑ it only means it's only one round, but I'd much rather play well in the first round than not.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT