THE NORTHERN TRUST
August 26, 2018
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Thoughts on that finish and going on to next week?
NICK WATNEY: It's nice just to be able to go, last year, coming off injury, I made it to the first week and not the second.  Quite frankly, it sucks.  It sucks to watch, watch your peers compete.
So, super excited that I made it, and very, very pleased with the week, and I'm just really looking forward to keeping going.  Golf is a momentum game and I feel like I've got a lot of positive energy right now.  So I'm ready to go.
Q. What clicked in your game this week?
NICK WATNEY: You know, my mental approach.  My mechanics, I don't think, were that different.  But I was just really clean mentally -- for the most part.  Definitely made a few mistakes, but that was the biggest difference.  Just really had fun with it and enjoyed the moment, and I'm ready to keep building.
Q. How is your health?
NICK WATNEY: I'm good.  I'm not sure what hangover -- not hangover, but what kind of residue there was from being injured, and maybe fear.  But I haven't had any nerve symptoms for two years.  I have a great team that keeps me accountable, keeps me fit, and my health is great.
Q. How do you deal with the mental aspect?  People talk about how difficult it is to just have to sit there and watch, making them so much more hungry for the game.
NICK WATNEY: Yes, absolutely.  Golf is what I love to do and it's what I have done for quite a while.  Not being able to do it, I mean, my days felt empty.  I didn't realize how much time I spent on the game, whether it was training or practicing or playing.  And when I couldn't, it was strange, a very uncomfortable feeling.
Definitely I'm a little bit more happy to be able to play, and now I get to keep going.  It's great.
Q. This tournament has been good to you.  Is there anything about this part of the world or this tournament that means a lot to you?
NICK WATNEY: I guess New York is put up or shut up.  I mean, I don't know, I love the golf courses we have here, classic.  I like the greens.  Kind of like what we have in California -- similar, anyway.  I'm not sure exactly, but I wish we played here more.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT