TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 21, 2014
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   The ending shouldn't take away what you did all day.   Talk about that a little bit and where that puts you right now.  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I assume the leaders are going to get a few more, but I'm in good shape.   You know, obviously the last hole was pretty poor to make a bogey with a wedge, but overall I'm very pleased and excited to be somewhat within shouting distance.  
   
 Q.   Is this just part of your progress you've been working on throughout the year?  
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I feel like things are starting to come together.   You know, I've been hitting the ball pretty well, but just trying to piece everything together.   So yeah, I hope this is just the start of a good run.  
   
 Q.   It's been a little bit of a long road for you, hasn't it?  
NICK WATNEY:   It's been a road, yeah.   It's been kind of one thing after another.   And not all bad, but yeah, it's definitely not the year that I was hoping for, but I guess there's still some time.  
   
 Q.   You say one thing after another.   What are those things?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I was playing well in Miami and ended up having to pull out, which is bad, obviously, and then had a baby, which was great, but it's been a bit of an adjustment as far as golf goes.   
You know, we're kind of leveling off, I guess, with that and starting to get some good momentum.  
   
 Q.   When you have something so positive, as you said, having a baby, does that help you put into perspective?   When you have a bad round and you go back and you see your baby, you don't know nor care about the bad round.   Does that help you put things into perspective?  
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, sure.   Especially doing this professionally and being a competitor, it's never good or easy to struggle, but yeah, once you pick that little baby up, like you said, she doesn't care.   
So it definitely changes it as opposed to before, I'd just probably take it home, you know, if I was angry about a round.   But that's not possible anymore.   So she's been amazing, and now it's time to pick up the golf.  
   
 Q.   How old is she?  
NICK WATNEY:   Three and a half months.  
   
 Q.   Congratulations.  
NICK WATNEY:   Thanks.  
   
 Q.   Why did you have to pull out?   Was it because of the baby?  
NICK WATNEY:   No.   I injured my back, so that was never really‑‑ I'd never had to pull out of an event before with that.   So definitely different and humbling and scary, but all good now and onwards and upwards.  
   
 Q.   What did you do to recover from the back?  
NICK WATNEY:   Just rehab.   I didn't have to have surgery or anything, but it was just a little scary because I've always been able to do pretty much anything.   I've never been injured before, so not being able to play golf or practice was a little scary at first, but like I said, all good now and looking forward to tomorrow and the next few events.  
   
 Q.   When did the back problems first kind of creep into the game?   It was before that week, though; right?  
NICK WATNEY:   No.   That was it.   Sunday Miami was‑‑ that was when it hit.  
   
 Q.   It started down there?  
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT