MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2014
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   With the Eisenhower tree no longer at 17, did you play the hole any differently this week?
NICK WATNEY:   Not differently.   I think visually obviously it's different.   But with the trees planted on both sides of the fairway it almost looks a little more narrow than before.   Before the trees were blocking so much of the hole you couldn't really tell where the edge of the fairway was.   But now it makes it even‑‑ visually it makes it look tighter, even though the tree's not there.
So it wasn't much different, I think.   But I'm sure we'll have something in store for us next year.

Q.   I'm doing a story on the U.S. Open coming up, obviously at Pinehurst.   Did you play in '05?
NICK WATNEY:   I did not.

Q.   What do you think of that test?   Obviously it's greens there, the greens are the tricky part?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I've never been, to be honest.   I've heard‑‑ you think you hit a great shot and it rolls way down off the green.   So it will be‑‑ I'm sure it will be a great test.   The USGA always sets it up where anything under par will be really good.
So I'm looking forward to getting over there and having a look.   And then playing in a Major is always a good time. 

Q.   How many times do you think you might get there to play?   It depends on your schedule, I guess?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, as much as I can.   But maybe‑‑ if I get there‑‑ if I get three rounds in or four, that would be great.

Q.   Now in '99, how old were you then?   Do you remember the Payne Stewart thing?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I remember it.

Q.   Pretty vivid for a lot of guys?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, incredible.   I think that's one of the great things about golf, just the history is such a big part of it.   And I'm sure every time they hold a tournament there somebody remembers Payne Stewart winning.   It's obviously a special place because of that and I'm looking forward to having a look.

Q.   I'm doing a story on Bill Haas, the fundraiser he's putting on.   I guess you plan on going? 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah. 

Q.   Just talk about that and what you guys‑‑ I know Bill‑‑ it's a big call for Bill, I know?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, he's‑‑ Bill is really a good kid.   To be honest with you I'm not a hundred percent sure of what it's for.   But he's a good friend, so I'm going to go. 

Q.   You guys will play that week, too, then at Wells?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.

Q.   You guys do that kind of stuff a lot, though, as far as charity and stuff like that.   It's just another day for you guys, to help out like that?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, but I think when it's‑‑ when it's a friend like Bill or something military‑wise, or something like that, or close to your heart, it becomes more than just a day.   You're happy to go.   It's a fun time.   And if it's a corporate day and you're contractually obligated it may be just another day.   But, yeah, if it's a cause like that, you can really get behind it and I think it's a fun time.

Q.   Matt Kuchar, and I think Hunter is going to go, too?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I think it goes to show how good the cause is, one, and then how good of a guy Bill is. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT