MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2014
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   I hear there was a match and you and Bill Haas teamed up and gave a pretty good whipping.   Is that accurate?  
NICK WATNEY:   Billy and I were on a team and we were undefeated.   So maybe he ‑‑ if he comes over again, maybe a little of that can rub off on me, that 68.   But, yeah, I love Bill, he came over and we had a good time.   
   
 Q.   Just in general, how do you feel about your start thus far?  
NICK WATNEY:   Pretty good.   I bogeyed the second hole, which is never good, and then bogeyed 4.   So that's 2‑over pretty quick.   
So pretty happy with 72.   It definitely could have been worse, so I'm just excited to be back here and to be playing and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Around 17 you had some body English as Gallacher almost made his putt and then he did the same thing for yours.   Talk about the bounce back on 17, making that birdie.   
NICK WATNEY:   That was nice.   15, 16 I had decent looks and wasn't able to get it in.   So to birdie that hole, especially from the pine straw, I'll take that every time.   
   
 Q.   Is your baby four weeks now?  
NICK WATNEY:   Four weeks.   Yes.   
   
 Q.   How special is it to have her out here.   It's her first tournament, right?  
NICK WATNEY:   It is.   Yeah, it's pretty surreal.   It's surreal to say my daughter is at the Masters and stuff like that.   So we're having a lot of fun with it.   Hopefully, she behaves herself out here.  
   
 Q.   Did you play the par‑3?  
NICK WATNEY:   I did not.   
   
 Q.   Has she ‑‑ what's it like being a father?   You've been married for four years now and is this your first?  
NICK WATNEY:   She is.   It's hard to put into words.   I feel like she's changed so much even though she only weighs about seven pounds.   Every day it's something new for her.   So we're enjoying it.   
My wife might not be enjoying the nights so much, but we're loving the daytime.   
   
 Q.   Your feeling on the first tee today, compare that to your first Masters, if you can remember back.   What's changed, what's the same?  
NICK WATNEY:   Probably not as many jitters, but definitely still a little bit nervous and just excited to get started.   The practice was fun, but the fun really starts Thursday.   So it's nice just to get up on the tee here and they call your name like they have called so many guys and it's just really special.  
   
 Q.   How do you look at the first round?   Is it something you want to get through and be in a decent position without a disaster or do you come off wishing you had been under par?   How do you feel right now basically about even?  
NICK WATNEY:   I would love to be under par, but after 2‑over after four and then or I think it was 1‑over with 10 and 11, I mean, I had some pretty stressful pars there, so even's not a bad score for me today.   I shook off a little rust to get in at even par.   Pretty pleased.   I'm definitely excited to get right back out in the morning.  
   
 Q.   If a Masters rookie came up to you and said, I'm playing my first round in 10 minutes, I need one or two pieces of advice that you've learned, what would you tell them?  
NICK WATNEY:   I think the base thing is just to enjoy it.   It's an honor just to play in this event and that.  
   
 Q.   Would you tell them don't be nervous?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, that's impossible, but I think also just to be aggressive.   The course is such a fine line between, you can play conservative, but sometimes that gets you in even more trouble.   I think just swing away and enjoy it.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT