CIMB CLASSIC
October 23, 2013
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   We welcome defending champion Nick Watney here at the CIMB Classic.   Nick, thanks for joining us.   You made your first start of the 2013‑14 season last week in the Shriners Hospitals for Children Open, and here you defend you title.   Different golf course, but I'm sure you have some good memories, maybe some opening comments about returning to defend your title. 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I'm definitely very excited to be back.   I have a lot of good memories from last time I was here.   The golf course is in great shape out there.   It's very challenging.   I'm looking forward to getting the week started. 

Q.   Can you do a comparison between the two courses?   How did it play today compared to last time? 
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I think the main difference, you're right, it's very hilly out there, but I think the main difference would be how narrow the fairways are.   The Mines are pretty generous driving the ball, but here we hit into a lot of 15‑yard gaps or maybe even less than that.   It's definitely important to get the ball in the fairway.   The rough is up pretty good, and I think the winner will be a good driver, controlling the ball off the tee in order to give himself the best shot into the green because also the greens are a bit firmer than The Mines.   It's a pretty good test. 

Q.   When did you arrive in Malaysia, and is jet lag a problem at the moment? 
NICK WATNEY:   We arrived yesterday, landed about noon, I think, noon local time.   I was asleep by 7:00 p.m. and awake at 3:00.   So yeah, I think‑‑ yeah, I don't know when I'll get fully adjusted to the time, but it looks like the tee times are slated to be pretty early, so it'll be fine to be waking up early.   You know, it's Wednesday here.   I'm pretty sure it's Tuesday evening back in the States.   It's definitely different, but it's almost so much of a time change that it works out.   So no problem. 

Q.   Do you have Chad here this week and have you taken any precautions?
NICK WATNEY:   Yes, he is here, thank you.   Chad is here, and he is well aware of what could happen.   He's taking precautions.   He's drinking tons of water.   I think he said last time what he thought maybe his mistake was not drinking enough when he got off the plane.   He's been drinking a lot of water, feeling good so far, but I'll probably stay on him to stay hydrated and not have another IV session. 
JOEL SCHUCHMANN:   Nick Watney, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT