TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP BY COCA-COLA
September 20, 2013
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nick, 65.   Get some comments on a good day. 
    NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, we go in second off, obviously knew we had to play a good round to get back in the tournament. 
    Keegan started off great, so I was just kind of trying to play catch‑up to him all day.   It was a fun day.   It's much better than yesterday.   I just hope we get to play a full 18 holes tomorrow.

Q.   Keegan was saying he didn't really play much different between yesterday and today. 
    NICK WATNEY:   I did actually.   I hit the ball really well yesterday off the tee, which is big here, and was pretty sloppy coming into the green. 
    So that was mainly the difference today.   I had a lot more opportunities and made a few putts, and seven shots difference somehow.

Q.   Are you guys able to feed off each other when you're both playing well? 
    NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, sure.   He birdied the first two, and I didn't want to get embarrassed out there.   I knew I had some work to do. 
    It took me 17 holes to catch him, but I finally was able to do it.

Q.   How are you feeling? 
    NICK WATNEY:   Am I tired?   You're never too tired after 65, but, yeah, I'm looking forward to taking a week off next week.

Q.   Nick, it seems like your game has sort of turned the corner the next few weeks.   Is it good timing because it happens before the end of the year or bad timing that it didn't happen earlier? 
    NICK WATNEY:   The way I was playing, it's definitely not bad timing.   I wish it was January, but I'll take‑‑ I'm real excited about the direction I'm going in, and you know‑‑ like I said, I'll take it any time. 
    The off‑season, I'll just keep working hard and hopefully hit the ground running next year.

Q.   [No microphone.]
    NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I mean, it‑‑ the way‑‑ I guess you're right, a few weeks.   It will be good to get some practices away from tournaments and stuff.

Q.   Are you going to do the Shark Shootout this year? 
    NICK WATNEY:   I don't know if I'm going to make the Shark Shootout.   I don't know if I'm on the invite list.

Q.   Sounds like you're going to have one tournament in two months.   Is that right? 
    NICK WATNEY:   No.   I'm going to play Vegas, Malaysia.

Q.   I'm talking post‑‑ Hawaii or Palm Springs or whatever? 
    NICK WATNEY:   But two months, that's not a bad thing, two months off.   Not off, but two months of practice, and if I get into Tiger's, that would be great.   I don't know if I'm going to do it.   I won't complain if I'm home for a couple of months. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT