BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 16, 2013
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  NICK WATNEY:   Starting today, I figured I had maybe an outside shot, but there's so many good players ahead of me that I knew I'd need something special.   I got off to a really good start, and then No.8, still not quite sure what happened, but maybe a little loss of focus or something.   So at that point I thought I'd have to really step on it to have any kind of chance.   Even playing maybe on 14, I think Furyk was at 15‑under.   It never really entered my head until I saw going to 17 I was one back, and was able to make birdie there.   So now I'm waiting it out. 

Q.   Really nice putt I thought on 18, as well, just slid right below the cup on you. 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, all you can ask for really is I would have loved to have hit it closer, obviously.   But all you can ask for is a chance there, and I hit a good putt. 
You know, I did all I can do, and now just wait and see what happens.

Q.   I saw you watching the scoreboards out there today. 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I was.   I like to know where I'm at.   I think it definitely helped on 17.   It was really, really fun.   I haven't been in this position for a while, and to get back in the heat is awesome.

Q.   Is it a little strange to see yourself right at the top of the leaderboard?
NICK WATNEY:   No, not strange.   That's where we try to be.   I knew I needed a big day, and I was a bit nervous just because I felt like there was a lot on the line.   I got off to a really nice start, and hoping for a playoff.

Q.   Will you go out there and watch some live or watch on TV?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I'll probably go inside and try to relax a little bit.   I would assume that one of those two guys is going to make a birdie, but I guess you never know in this game.   I would love a chance. 

Q.   Are you thinking at all about your FedExCup position, just trying to get inside that top 30?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, that was definitely a goal starting this week.   You know, starting the Playoffs I was well outside, and I knew you could move up quickly in this format, but to come in at‑‑ I don't know what, 34 maybe, I knew I needed to have a good week.   The guys ahead of me were ahead of me for a reason.   They've been playing well all year.   Luckily for me I kind of pulled everything together.

Q.   Did you sneak a peek during the round in terms of your FedExCup projection? 
NICK WATNEY:   I mean, I kind of figured‑‑ obviously I was aware of it to start the day for sure.   But after I birdied the 13th hole, I kind of thought that I was going to make it to Atlanta.   And then it was just about trying to make as many as I could to see if I could put a little pressure on those guys.   Jim and Zach are two of the best wedge players we have, and 18 will be a wedge.   Outside shot at it, but like I say, you never know, and I'd love a chance.

Q.   Was it one of those days that you could just keep the pedal‑to‑the‑metal type of thing?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I did everything pretty well today.   I drove it in a lot of fairways and putted really, really well.   I'm excited.   I'm really excited for next week, and I'd love to have a chance if those guys don't make a birdie.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT