THE BARCLAYS
August 20, 2013
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LAURA NEAL:   Thanks for joining us, we welcome our defending champion, Nick Watney to the interview room.   
You're the defending champ but a completely different golf course.   Maybe just talk to us about your season and then kicking off the Playoffs here at Liberty National.  
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, the season was pretty tough and definitely not what I was looking for this year.   But having said all that, last year wasn't the greatest regular season for me, anyway, either, and end up winning a couple times at the end of the year.   
So that's what I'm hoping for, and you know, with the format the way it is, if you get hot at the right time, you can play all the way through Atlanta and have a whole lot to play for.   
So you know, trying to get on track and hopefully lightning will strike twice.  
LAURA NEAL:   And being here at Liberty National, you had success in '09 when we were here.   Maybe just talk about coming back to a course before you played well.  
NICK WATNEY:   I haven't been out, but from what I understand, they have re‑done a lot of the golf course.   I'm excited to get out there and see what it looks like.   I like playing in this part of the country, and you know, like I said, this golf course is definitely spectacular when it comes to viewing, so I'm looking for a good result.   
   
 Q.   What's your status withTodd Anderson?   
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, we are working together now‑‑ not officially yet, but I will be, I think.   
   
 Q.   How did that work?  
NICK WATNEY:   We met through a mutual friend, and you know, I've met him‑‑ I've known him enough to say hello and speak a few words to him but kind of got to know him over the last few weeks, and really like‑‑ he's a great person and I like what he has to say about my swing.   So I'm excited about moving forward.   
   
 Q.   Are you re‑doing anything, or was it clean‑up, or how would you describe what you're doing right now?  
NICK WATNEY:   I would say there's some stuff that feels new to me.   I mean, it's not an overhaul or I don't think I need to take a year off or anything.   But it's a bit of refining maybe.   I think he's a really good communicator.     
I'm excited in the near future, getting to play obviously, but in the off‑season having some time to really get into it and hit the ground running next season.     
   
 Q.   Was there anything in particular that you felt like held you back this year?   
NICK WATNEY:   You know, I haven't been doing anything really well all season.   You know, you can't point to, I can't point to one thing, unfortunately, and say, well, that's been my downfall.   
I know the last, say, three months, I've been putting very poorly, which even if you strike the ball well, and you don't putt well, it's hard to make any kind of score.   So I would say that is the biggest reason why I've had a down season, would be my putting.   
But you know, last week, even though I didn't play particularly well, I feel like I kind of gained some traction on what I'm trying to do, even in the putting.  
My best season, 2011, I putted great all year, and so I know it's in there.   It's just a matter of getting back to the basics and really I guess making that a focus.   I've kind of been, you know, going through a few swing changes and maybe not really putting in the time and the right amount of energy into my short game.   
               So that will be definitely an area I'll address right now and going forward.   
   
 Q.   You guys take things for granted too much, do you think?  
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I think it's‑‑ I definitely don't want to say that I've been complacent, because I've had a lot of talks with my team and they say, if anything, I'm spending more time practicing, definitely playing more events than I have in a long time.     
So I don't think it's necessarily the time, but maybe focusing on one thing and let ago another area slide; worrying about things too much.   Just kind of go down the list of forcing things, or however you want to word it.  
But I think I've read some books about once you get‑‑ not to say that I've been to the top, I've never been ranked No. 1, but once you have success, the hardest part about that is staying at the top, as opposed to getting there.   Maybe I haven't done a good job of continuing to further progress as a player.   Maybe I rested or‑‑ I don't know, something to look into for sure.   
   
 Q.   What did you do‑‑  
NICK WATNEY:   What place?   Sixth maybe‑‑  
LAURA NEAL:   Top‑10.   
   
 Q.   Did you like the course?  
NICK WATNEY:   I didn't see any problem with it to be honest.   I'm not really one to say that‑‑ I love Bethpage, obviously.   This course is different than that, to be sure.   It's more of a modern style.   But I thought it was fine.   
   
 Q.   This course got ravaged pretty good in '09.   What did you think when that was going on, and I guess my real question is, has it almost become a sport amongst the players, caddies, traveling circus, once one thing is said, to pile it on?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I was talking to ‑‑ I can't remember who I was talking to, but we were talking about the designers of the golf course and what that must have been like to put in work, obviously, and then have your work just ripped apart.   
It's tough.   It definitely seems like once the ice is broken, then people pile on.   I think with the putter issue, you know, guys were being really careful and then a few guys said something and then everyone had an opinion on it.   
I guess we have it pretty good out here, and it's just, got to find something to talk about (laughs).   I think everybody has to play the same course‑‑ like Muirfield, it was so baked and the guys that didn't play well thought the conditions were, you know‑‑ it's a great golf course, but the conditions were so extreme.   And then the guys were saying what a great test it was.   
I think it's just sort of, you know, the guys that play well, think the golf course is fine, and the guys that don't, hate it.   
   
 Q.   What's the worst you've ever been criticized?   
NICK WATNEY:   What's the worst I've been criticized?   I don't know, that's a good question.   I try not to read that stuff.   
   
 Q.   Have you ever been offended by anything you've read?   
NICK WATNEY:   About myself?   Yeah, sure.   I've been called plain or vanilla.   Definitely my performance this year, I've read a few things about, a once‑‑ a has‑been or something, and absolutely, it's hard.   I can't imagine being really famous and people start making stuff up about you.   
So it's definitely‑‑ sometimes you can get offended but it's also motivating at the same time.   
LAURA NEAL:   Nick, thanks for your time.   Good luck this week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT