MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 13, 2013
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice round.   Talk about that stretch on the back nine. 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, it was 11, they give out crystal for eagles here and not for birdie, and my caddie said that they should probably give out crystal for birdies on that hole.   So that was definitely a bonus. 
But 13, I hit it on the green in two, so made a nice 2‑putt. 
14, really tough pin to go to get at and I had a really good yardage, so with that green, birdie's always good. 
15, I made it from just off the back, which you just wants to try to 2‑putt it.   So for it to go in was a bonus.

Q.   How long was that one on 15?
NICK WATNEY:   35 feet. 
16, I hit a really good shot and that's a really tricky pin there in the front right. 
So would have loved to have at least parred the last hole, but I'm happy to be in red numbers and I guess you never know what tomorrow brings. 

Q.   When you're on that roll, does the cup start getting bigger and bigger and the landing areas get bigger looking to you?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, it's nice when you read a putt and it does exactly what you think and it's just rolling perfect speed.   That's when the game's really fun. 
But after Thursday, it's a bit extra special to be under par for the Tournament as of right now and I'm really looking forward to hopefully a good day tomorrow and the rest of the season. 

Q.   Are you in it here?
NICK WATNEY:   That remains to be seen, but just with what those guys do.   I don't think they teed off yet.   So I would say if I'm within six or seven, I mean, sure, why not. 

Q.   Kind of went out and did what you had to do to at least give your self a shot?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, definitely.   It played so tough yesterday and I bogeyed the 10th and everybody always says, just get through 12, you can get the course.   And I finally did it.   I think this may be the first time in my career that I actually did it. 
I finally was able to make something happen on the back and after Thursday, plus six, I'm pretty excited to be in this position.

Q.   Can you talk about, you played with Phil obviously and he didn't play anything near what you did.   Have you seen Phil struggle like that before?   He seemed very out of sorts. 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, he's definitely not the Phil that we're all used to seeing.   I think, honestly, it's just, I mean we have all been there, unfortunately, and it was a bit of a lesson for me just because you know he's out of sorts, but he was still swinging pretty confidently, definitely wasn't guiding it out there, which I tend to do when I'm playing poorly.   So I think it says a lot that he grinded and made the cut.   I'm sure he'll be back very soon. 

Q.   I don't know how much you know about the whole Tiger ball drop. 
NICK WATNEY:   I haven't heard anything about it. 

Q.   Just the idea of retroactively enforcing a penalty like the day after, the sun goes down, Committee thought the drop was okay, but then the next morning they decide that it isn't.   Your thoughts on that?
NICK WATNEY:   It's happened a few times.   Obviously what was it, '67 or whatever, De Vicenzo, everyone saw him win the Tournament, but the scorecard cost him the Masters.   I guess it's just one of those rules.   I mean, I'm glad I didn't have to make the decision, but I guess Tiger's here, so that's good for golf. 

Q.   Is it a dangerous precedent to be setting where a guy leaves a golf courses, thinks he's got one score, and then comes back and has to take an extra two strokes?
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I think that precedent's been set for a long time.   People calling in and all that stuff.   I know he didn't do anything malicious or trying to gain an advantage or anything like that; and there's officials all over the place and when he took the drop there was no issue. 
So, like I say, I'm glad I don't have to make the decision, but there's not really much you can do now.   The Committee's made the choice and just move forward.

Q.   In your mind, if you make a rules violation and find out about it after the fact, after you signed your scorecard, are you thinking you're playing the next day?
NICK WATNEY:   Well, luckily I've never, I've never had that happen, but I mean, to have something be out of my control, yeah, I mean, I'm sure it's scary and obviously I'm sure he feels terrible about it and I believe a hundred percent that he didn't do anything on purpose.   So I think it's just, it is what it is, I'm sure he'll not do that again ever probably.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT