CIMB CLASSIC
October 24, 2012
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We have Nick Watney here.   First things first, Nick, we want you to talk about the San Francisco Giants and their run to the World Series.   Let's do that. 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, it's very exciting.   I'm glad I have a late tee time tomorrow so I can watch a little bit of the game.   Only thing is I wish I was in the country so I can go, but we're here, so we'll be watching it for sure. 
THE MODERATOR:   Talk about your trip here to Malaysia and coming here to play overseas in a tournament that's going to be an official PGA TOUR event next year? 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, it's exciting.   It's my first time here.   I haven't seen too much.   I just got in yesterday, but the people are very nice and the golf course seems to be really good.   So it should be a great week.

Q.   How do you find that the golf course is your first time here to play and how are the conditions now? 
NICK WATNEY:   The course is a really good golf course.   It's pretty simple as far as it's not tricked out.   There are not a lot of blind shots or anything like that.   But it's in really nice condition.   The front nine has a lot, a lot of water.   It seems like just a really good test of golf.   Nothing, like I said, no tricks and just what you see is what you get.   It's right there in front of you.

Q.   You played a practice game? 
NICK WATNEY:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   So how many holes do you think you will take out your driver? 
NICK WATNEY:   I would say maybe ten.   Quite a few.   It seems like you can be pretty aggressive.   There is a little bit of trouble out there.   But for me, my driver is a pretty good club.   I didn't come all the way over here to lay back, so I'm going to be aggressive.

Q.   Let's talk a little about the change in the season and the fact that this will be an official event next year?   Does that change your schedule?   Do you think it's something that's good for the Tour, good for the game?
NICK WATNEY:   I think it's really good for the game.   I think this area of the world is very excited about golf at the moment.   So I think coming over here is good, and it will be interesting to see how big of a field they have next year with the rain storms and whatnot. 
But I think it will attract a lot of good players and it will be great for the Tour and the game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT