ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 29, 2017
Charley Hoffman
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. One heck of a battle to get in at 69.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: We played good.  Middle of that round we made some great pars.  It was fun.  It was fun to play.  Nick and I were sort of feeding off each other, holding each other up and I can't wait for tomorrow.
Q. Charley said yesterday that he prefers the foursome format because of how you guys playoff of each other alternate-shot-wise.  Did you think you guys are in a good spot?
NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I think we're both pretty good ball-strikers, and Charley has been rock solid with the putter all week.  So I thought it was good for us.  The tougher the conditions, I felt like we were going to hang in there pretty well.  So we got a chance tomorrow.  We're not sure where we'll be at but it doesn't really matter.  We've got a chance and it's going to be real fun.
Q. Speaking of rock solid, the putt on 9, Charley, I thought was the key to the entire day and keeping you going and bogey-free.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, it's one of those, I put Nick in a hard spot.  The ninth hole playing hard and I just want to get on the green.  He gave me a look at it and it was nice to get that one to go in.
Q. What do you think it takes tomorrow as we go back to best-ball?
NICK WATNEY: Well, it's real tough to say right now, because the conditions, you know, we're going to go super early, try to avoid them, and also, this is kind of the first go.  Somebody will probably shoot 9- or 10-under, I'm sure.  So hopefully it's not the guys in front of us.
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Hopefully it's us.
Q. In at 15-under and it was fun to watch that battle, especially on the back nine.  How would you describe how competitive it was out there?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Our whole group was hitting good shots and giving ourselves opportunities.  When he got out of position, we had putts at par.  Nice to make a putt even though it's for par in these conditions.  You can get some momentum that way and we did that.  Made a nice birdie on the last.
Q. How much did the wind impact you?  Gusts of up to 40 miles per hour throughout your round?
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Yeah, I think it affected a lot.  Obviously the shots you're talking about, but the shots on the greens, people don't talk about it, it's hard to read grain, hillside, wind, all that.  Nick hit some good putts and I was fortunate to make a couple.  All in all, to shoot 69 in these conditions, alternate-shot, we're really happen.
Q. Tomorrow, early tee times because of the expected weather, how much does that change or impact the way you guys approach tomorrow?
NICK WATNEY: I don't think it will change much.  We played real early on Friday, and if we do get some rain tomorrow, we'll deal with it.  But I don't think it will be too much more difficult than today.  So I'm really excited.  If you would have told us we'd be at or near the lead with one round to go, I think we would have taken it.  I think it's going to be fun.
Q. What will it take to get that win tomorrow?
NICK WATNEY: It's really tough to say right now.  With the format, I'm sure there will be a 9- or 10-under.  Hopefully it's us and not the guys out in the lead.
We can just deal with the first hole and hopefully give ourselves as many opportunities as possible, and if Charley keeps rolling it like he is, some good things can happen.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT