WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2012
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   8‑under par 64.   Tell us about this magical day for you. 
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I played great.   I hit the ball probably the best I have all year.   I putted well, and I'm very, very pleased.   But we're only halfway done, so I'm really looking forward to the weekend.

Q.   Talk about the eagle at 15.   That was about a 41‑footer you threw in there?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I haven't made a lot of those this year, so that was exciting.   It's always nice to make eagles, especially here.   Definitely very pleased with that hole. 

Q.   And you had a chance at 16.   You hit a great shot out of the fairway bunker, had a chance there, just lipped out.   17 you came close on a 50‑footer, even at 18.   Last three holes you still had more chances. 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.   For as well as I hit it, I made the putts I should have made, but still left a few out there, which I guess you can always say in this game.   Very excited for the weekend, and I'm pleased with the way I'm playing.

Q.   Why are you guys eating up this golf course this week, because I think for the first time ever the cut is going to be under par, maybe 1, 2‑under par.   Why so many good scores?
NICK WATNEY:   I think the greens are pretty soft and they're very, very good.   So if you hit a putt on line it's going to go in.   I guess there's not as much rough as maybe we usually have.   Combine not much rough with really good, soft greens, and usually the scores are pretty low. 

Q.   A 66 on the day.   Can you talk about it?
NICK WATNEY:   Well, this was just really, really good ball‑striking.   I hit a bunch of shots close.   I hit it on a few par‑5s, so I'm very pleased with that.   I putted well, but I wasn't making it from 30 feet all day. 

Q.   You've been talking about a lack of consistency all season long.   How do you extend this into the weekend? 
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I think last week was a wake‑up call for me, and I've worked really hard these five days leading into this event, and I think it just shows I'm making progress.   Who knows what's going to happen this weekend, but I'm really excited for it.   I think we're just‑‑ more hard work, and hopefully I'll be in this position a lot more.

Q.   As far as the weekend, you're going out late.   Does that help mentally?   Does that help you get ready because you know you're going out late and you're going out on a course that's been walked on by everybody?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I think that's where everybody wants to tee off.   It'll be great.   You know, I'm looking forward to it, like I said.   I haven't been in this position as much as I would like recently.   I'm very excited, and I'm ready to go. 

Q.   Any birdies that stand out today? 
NICK WATNEY:   Well, the 12th hole is a difficult drive for me, and I was able to get balls in the fairway and birdie there.   And then the eagle at 15, I made about a 40‑footer, so those are always a bonus.

Q.   Talk about that eagle putt that you made there.   Those aren't easy. 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.   Well, the flag is kind of‑‑ it's in a really‑‑ the green is big, but the place where the flag is is very small.   I hit a good shot on the green, but finally read one right and was able to make it. 

Q.   Were the greens receptive to your shots today?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, the greens are pretty soft, which I think is why the scores are pretty low.   I'm sure they'll‑‑ I don't know if it's with the heat they don't want to lose them or what the case may be, but I'm sure they'll firm up a bit on the weekend.

Q.   Just talk about playing with Webb today.   You may end up being paired with him tomorrow or close to it. 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, it's fun.   He's a great host, definitely.   His house is just right down the street, and we've had a lot of fun this week.   Just to play with him tomorrow would be fun.

Q.   Who's been doing all the cooking?   Something must be working there at the house. 
NICK WATNEY:   Actually I don't think we've cooked once.   Webb barbecued on Monday night.   It was my wife's birthday and Jason Day's wife's birthday, so Webb barbecued that night.   But other than that, we've just been grabbing something quick, just hanging out.   They have a son. 

Q.   He joked that he was going to go home, beat you home and turn the AC off.   Do you have any plans tonight? 
NICK WATNEY:   I don't know.   I mean, it's a pretty early morning.   We may just hang out.   I'm pretty sure he's going to stay at the house, too, so he can't turn it too hot. 

Q.   You had to take out the trash yesterday?
NICK WATNEY:   I did, yeah, high score, so I can relax today. 

Q.   He shot 68, so he's got to take it out?
NICK WATNEY:   He's got to take it out.   I got a 68 yesterday and had to take it out.   So far it's been a tough house.

Q.   And then Ben is like next door or a couple houses away?
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, apparently as the crow flies he's really close, but to drive you kind of have to go around.   But yeah, as far as I know, he's pretty close.

Q.   You have to shoot 66 to get on that street, I guess. 
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah (laughing).









END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT