MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2012
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   In general today how was it out there?  
NICK WATNEY:   Pretty wet to be honest.   It's not what we're used to seeing out here.   But I guess they did get a lot of rain.   If we get any more, I think it'll be kind of soupy out there.   It's very wet, the balls aren't rolling very far at all, even in the fairways, a lot of mud.   I don't know, I wouldn't say it's easy, but it's not as firm as you want to see it.  
   
 Q.   Are you surprised because of that that right now there's no 66 up there?   There's nothing super low?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I think since they knew the greens were soft, they kind of pushed the flags.   There's some spots that are two and three from the edges.  
   
 Q.   What's the best example?  
NICK WATNEY:   6.   It's like, gosh, I don't know, two or three paces over the front of that slope, which is like five feet high.   They are pushing them pretty close to the edges.   
   
 Q.   Did you have mud balls?   
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   Lots?  
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah.   Almost every hole, really, it's going to pick up something.   It's very soft out there.  
   
 Q.   If it does rain more‑‑ they want to avoid ball in hand.   
NICK WATNEY:   I guess it depends.   From what I hear it's supposed to rain tonight.   It'll be interesting.   It'll be interesting to see what they end up deciding on that.   It's borderline just because it's picking up mud now, and if they get what they're forecasting, it could be pretty wet out there.   
   
 Q.   How big are the advantages for bigger hitters?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I think‑‑ I don't know if Francesco is considered a big hitter, and he's tied for the lead.   It's probably an advantage in the long run just because you're hitting so much shorter clubs, but he played a beautiful round today.   When he'd get in trouble, he played good around the greens.   That's really what it's all about out here.   
   
 Q.   How did you play today?  
NICK WATNEY:   It's fair.   I mean, I didn't really make any long putts, but besides 10 and 11 I played really well.   I'll take it, and hopefully I can make some more putts tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   How do you view your expectations?   
NICK WATNEY:   I think it's wide open.   The top guys are playing really well, but as a competitor, I can't really think that I have less of a shot.   I'm going to give it everything I've got, and hopefully I can put my name in the mix.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT