WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2012
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  LAURA HILL:   We would like to welcome Nick Watney, defending champion here at the World Golf Championships Cadillac Championship.   Obviously some good memories; talk about being back here, your mind‑set and defending your title this week.  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, yeah, it's very nice to be back.   And you know, definitely a lot of good memories.   Today was‑‑ wind was up obviously but it's good to be back on this course and I'm looking forward to the week.   
   
 Q.   Could you talk about the par 3s on the back, tactically how you play them?   13 is the longest par 3 on the course.   Tell me how you approach those holes and how did you do on those last year?   
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, they are two very different holes.   13, like you said, very long and difficult, depending on the flag.   It can play upwards of about 235 yards.   And that hole, I'm really just trying to make a three, figure out the best way to hit the green.   Sometimes you even have to bounce it up.   
So that's sort of almost a defensive par 3.   Whereas 15, usually you have a pretty short iron in your hand, and you can give be pretty aggressive.   So they are kind of opposites, and I think last year, you know, last year I would say I played them all right.   
   
 Q.   Wondering if you watched Sunday's final round of the Honda, and what your thoughts were specifically on Tiger's closing 62.   It's kind of something he has not done in a while?  
NICK WATNEY:   I didn't watch that much to be honest.   I heard that he played well obviously.   You know, I think I'm definitely not surprised.   He's said that he's close, and I think all of us over the years when we hear that from him, we tend to believe it.   So I think it's great for the game, as is Rory.   You know, hopefully I can throw my name in there somehow and it could be a pretty entertaining year for golf.   
   
 Q.   A putting question.   When you go through, if you struggle with the putter at all, do you focus on mental things to clear your head, that kind of thing, or do you have physical things?   Do you think that aspect helps you get back to it more easily?  
NICK WATNEY:   I think it's both.   I think sometimes mentally you can get going a little too much, a little too complicated.   But physically, there are things, fundamentals that I will check, just try to get my alignment square and shoulders square and whatnot.   
So I would say it's a little bit of both.   
   
 Q.   I can't recall a Masters where there's been sort of so much anticipation going into it with Phil and Tiger and Rory and a lot of other guys.   Do you feel like it's sort of harder, that much harder to win these days, because there's so much more depth?   Does it feel like there is a sort of greater anticipation from the player's standpoint?   
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I think just speaking from myself, I'm always excited about the Masters.   It's my favorite tournament of the year.   And I don't know if‑‑ you know, there's more depth now, so is it harder to win; I mean, it used to be Tiger was dominant, so it was that harder to win.   I think the bottom line is, if you win the Masters, you've beaten the best in the game and it's a hard tournament to win, doesn't matter, you know, if there's a lot of guys playing well or back in the days when Tiger was the favorite by a long shot.   It's always going to be tough to win major, so it's very exciting.  
From a player's standpoint, we are excited to get there, and this time of year is always the ramp up.   I know a few guys are heading up to see it.   I'm going to go up in a couple of weeks, and I'm excited to get on the grounds.   
LAURA HILL:   Thank you.   Good luck the rest of the week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT