AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 9, 2012
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is this a day that was just ripe for scoring?   
NICK WATNEY:   It really is, it's the best I've ever seen the greens out here.   No wind, so the greens are firm, but that keeps them not so bumpy.   So the golf course is perfect.  
   
 Q.   Tell me about the experience last week?   Not feeling so well in Scottsdale.   Are you surprised you got off to a good start or are you feeling much better?   
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, definitely feel better.   It gave me some time to go home and practice too once I started coming out of it.   I'm not surprised, but I'm definitely pleased.  
   
 Q.   Nick, perfect conditions throughout and great start to the tournament for you.   Comments?  
NICK WATNEY:   Well, I played well.   The greens are probably the best that we've seen around this place well, the best ever I've seen.   The courses are in such good shape, that if you're playing well, there are good scores to be had.  
   
 Q.   Is it almost better getting Spy out of the way because the greens are so good, because you know they can get spiked up, obviously?  
NICK WATNEY:   Yeah, I mean, it's always probably the toughest course of the three.   So it's nice to play well out here and get perfect weather.  
   
 Q.   Do the perfect greens make it hard in some way do you think?   
NICK WATNEY:   Definitely.   If this would have been a normal round without amateurs, they could have made it very difficult.   So we wouldn't be out here for six or seven hours.   Made it a few easier pins, so I think that's why we're seeing some good scores.  
   
 Q.   Not much rough?   
NICK WATNEY:   Not much rough, yeah.  
   
 Q.   Any birdies stand out?   
NICK WATNEY:   I made an eagle on the 7th, which was the first eagle of the year.   So that stands out a little bit.  
   
 Q.   Take us through that hole?   
NICK WATNEY:   I drove it in the left rough.   But like we talked about, I had a really good lie.   Hit a 4‑iron about 18 feet and knocked it in.  
   
 Q.   What was your distance on that 4‑iron?   
NICK WATNEY:   219, I think.  
   
 Q.   Is there any hole where because of the conditions it played different than a normal AT&T?   I assume the ball was carrying a little better?  
NICK WATNEY:   The ball is carrying because the weather is so nice.   Maybe‑‑ well, the first hole, for sure, the greens were rock hard on the first hole.   So that made a little bit of a difference, just because usually it's pretty soft around here.   
It was great to have some firm conditions.   It seems like everybody said this course would be great if, and this year it is, so it's nice.  
   
 Q.   You had never seen it like this?   Have you played any rounds out here like this?   
NICK WATNEY:   I think I've seen it once in November for the Callaway Invitational.  
   
 Q.   Was there any green that was rock hard?   Can you give me an example of a ball bouncing off that you didn't expect?   
NICK WATNEY:   On the very first hole, I had 108.   I hit a sand wedge that landed eight yards short of the pin, and it went over the green, which is not really normal.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT