THE PRESIDENTS CUP
November 16, 2011
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Looking at the pairing with Phil, are you happy?   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I'm excited, Phil is a good friend of mine and we have played together quite a bit, so I'm really excited to get the matches started.  
  
  Q. And you've had a look at the course, what do you think?   
 NICK WATNEY: It's a great test. Wind is blowing a little bit today, so I think with that, it will make it very interesting. The greens are very firm and fast. I think it's a golf course that will change every day depending on the conditions. We had a couple of days of practice and just go out and give it the best.  
  
  Q. Any thoughts on Tiger's pairing with Adam Scott and Steve Williams?  
 NICK WATNEY: You can kind of see it coming, with what's been going on recently. I think it's great. I think it will add -- definitely add some drama to the matches and I know that they will both be ready so should be a good match, I'm sure.   
  
  Q. Looking forward to that pair-up?   
 NICK WATNEY: I'm sure Tiger and Adam and Steve and everybody is looking forward to it. I know that we are looking forward to it and seemed like it was destined to happen. I guess it would be good to get it out of the way on the first day.   
  
  Q. This course is a Mackenzie course, do you see any similarities to Augusta?   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, definitely some. The greens I think are probably the most similar just with the big and firm and fast. I think that's probably the most similarity. I mean, the land is a bit different. It's probably not as dramatic in terms of the drops and whatnot, but I think he used it really well. It seems like there's a lot of shot that you're hitting up to the greens and I think it would be a pretty stern test.   
  
  Q. How do you feel the local knowledge of four or five of the internationals can help?  
 NICK WATNEY: I definitely think it will help. Seems like there's some green -- it's better to miss it on the correct side than it is to be on the green on the wrong side. So I think Adam and Geoff have played here a decent amount of times. I think that will be a slight advantage, but you know, it is what it is.   
  
  Q. Your guys that have played it before, are they talking about the differences with the new fairway grass?   
 NICK WATNEY: The only guys I've spoken to about it that was here that was Tiger. He said it played much faster back then. So I guess they are trying to -- he said they are trying to slow it down a little bit, so the ball doesn't go as far.   
  
  Q. Do you think that for the members it might make it more difficult but for you guys it will help?   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I guess it would make it --  
  
  Q. He didn't mention that?   
 NICK WATNEY: He didn't mention that, but he said it would definitely play longer. Although, it's still not a long golf course. But for the members, yeah, I think it would prove to be a little more of a challenge.   
  
  Q. What is it about Steve Stricker that makes him such a good partner for Tiger?   
 NICK WATNEY: I think it's more than just his game. I think they are good friends. I think they are both comfortable with each other. Strick is very steady and we all know he's a great putter, so I think, you know, I think they both will be good partners for anybody. But partnering up, they seem to be a great team.   
  
  Q. Have you ever gotten a putting tip from him or do you ever watch him?  
 NICK WATNEY: I watch him for sure. I've never really spoken to him about it. He has his own style, the heel up in the air. I'm just surprised how consistent he is all the time, seems like he either makes it or taps it in every time.  
  
  Q. What's it been like so far?  
 NICK WATNEY: It's been great. I'm just trying to soak it all in and I'm really excited to get the matches started. It's been a blast just hanging out and getting little tips. We have not had a big sit-down meeting but getting little tips from the guys and it's been a lot of fun.   
  
  Q. Are you comfortable with the format tomorrow? Have you played it in the past?   
 NICK WATNEY: Played a little bit. We played some yesterday, Phil and I, and yeah, I think it will be good. Actually played it in the World Cup two years ago.   
  
  Q. Who did you play with?   
 NICK WATNEY: I played with John Merrick, and we actually played really well in the final round, alternate-shot. So hopefully we can continue that and I think it will be fun just to -- being here for three days and usually it's only two before the tournament starts. You're itching to go and like I said, I'm really looking forward to it.   
  
  Q. What does it mean to you, playing The Presidents Cup?   
 NICK WATNEY: Just playing for my country and the camaraderie of the event; it's an honor to play. In the short history the matches have been pretty entertaining, pretty good, and I'm happy to add my name to the list of players, and I'm ready to go.   
  
  Q. Your thoughts on the golf course?  
 NICK WATNEY: I think the course is great. I think it will be a great test. With the conditions, I mean, the conditions kind of dictate how difficult it's going to be. Yesterday there was pretty much no wind and it was pretty scorable. Today with the wind up a little bit, makes it really difficult to get the ball close. So I think with the conditions, they will dictate how easy the course plays. In match play, you make six and the other guy makes seven, you still win the hole. In relation to par, won't be that big a deal.   
  
  Q. Can you compare it to Augusta?   
 NICK WATNEY: A little bit similar. I think it's different because a lot of the greens here are raised up so it makes it difficult to run the ball up. Much warmer here. So it just feels a little different for some reason.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT