JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 2, 2011
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Nick, it was an exciting finish. You and Kevin battled all day. Came up a little short. If you want to go through your shots on the round and then we'll have a few questions.   
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I didn't make as many putts as I would have liked, and Kevin made a bunch of them. So all the credit goes to him.   
 Definitely disappointing, but you know, just take what I can learn and on to the next one.  
 THE MODERATOR: Okay. Questions?   
  
  Q. What do you take from an experience like this? You've won this year on TOUR twice. You've played very well, but what do you take from this that will help you The Presidents Cup?  
 NICK WATNEY: I think one thing I've relearned this week is how serious I was taking it, how badly I wanted to play well the last couple of months, and that didn't always translate into good golf.   
 So this week I came here with no expectations. I took it very easy and played pretty nice. So I'm going to take the fact that, you know, maybe just take it a little more easy and hopefully this will carry over into China.   
  
  Q. He made birdie at 15, 16 and 17. I think you went birdie, par, par or par, birdie, par or something like that. Do you think that's where he won the tournament or do you think maybe you let it get away from you?  
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah. I mean I guess -- you know, 15 was definitely disappointing to not make birdie there. I would love to have that bunker shot back.   
 16 I played very nice. 17 I hit a good shot, and he made a 40-footer. So, you know, that kind of stuff happens, I guess, when you win. And you know, he made quite a few putts today. So it's tough to beat.  
  
  Q. Do you think he was nervous down the stretch or do you think he kept the same composure that you saw when you teed off today?  
 NICK WATNEY: I think he kept his composure reasonably well. I mean the tee shot on 13 was pretty loose, but other than that, he hit it pretty nice.  
  
  Q. Can you talk about how that putt at 17, what was going through your mind there?  
 NICK WATNEY: Just that I had to make mine. You know, I thought -- I mean obviously I didn't like to be one back, but with water left on 18, it's not the easiest hole to par, so I thought I could catch him.   
 Once he hit it on the green there on 17, you know, I was inside a decent amount. I thought I could maybe pick up a shot there if I made birdie. But he holed it, and from there it would have taken quite a bit on 18 to have tied.  
  
  Q. Just one question about Presidents Cup. You're going to take a little time off you told me. What will you be doing between now and the start of play at Presidents Cup in Australia? What will you work on, and physically what you want to do to make sure that you are ready to go?  
 NICK WATNEY: I definitely need to tighten up my wedge game. I didn't hit a lot of good wedges today. I had a few opportunities and hit a lot of them 20 feet, which obviously is not getting the job done. So I need to work on that.   
 I struck the ball decently. Just wasn't my week, I guess, with putting. I made a few yesterday, but just really couldn't make many today. So wedges and putter, I guess, are my keys.  
  
  Q. And of course you told me how excited you are to represent your country. How important is it for you to keep your emotions in check? It's a very emotional event because whichever team wins, it gets very emotional out there. Everyone is really pumped up.   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I think it's definitely cliche, but I just have to take care of myself and win the matches that I can. We're definitely going over there to win, and you know, that's what we want to do. But as far as I'm concerned, just need to try and win my matches and hopefully we'll get enough points.  
  
  Q. You waited eight years to win. Do you remember when you won for the first time? It was very emotional afterwards and you started to choke up. Do people realize how difficult it is to get the very first one when you've tried and tried and tried?  
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I guess we all have our own journeys out here. Some guys have won their rookie year. How many rookie winners have we had this year?   
 It's a big deal. For me I've been dreaming about it for, you know, I don't know, 15 years, you know. So it's a big deal. I don't think it ever gets old, and the first one is definitely really sweet.   
  
  Q. Like other than 18, you seemed to -- when he bogeyed 14, maybe at that point people thought maybe you had it and his failure to get it done, you taking advantage there, but he seemed to -- as a matter of fact, he seemed to go out and win it. He did do what he had to do at the end.   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I mean I agree. You know, he hit a nice pitch on 15; and then 16, you know, I think most guys view that as a birdie hole, but 17 was, you know, it was his week, and that was -- you know, it was definitely not surprising to see that go in considering how well he putted all day.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT