JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 1, 2011
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I was just kind of plodding along there for a little while and looking at the board, and everybody was kind of -- a lot of guys were playing well. So it was nice to finish well, and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.
 THE MODERATOR: No. 3 on the Money List. You've had a great season. You're right where you need to be here at the Justin Timberlake. Talk a little bit about your plans for tomorrow and what a third win would mean for you.
 NICK WATNEY: Well, as far as tomorrow goes, I'm just going to try and keep doing the same thing, give myself a lot of chances, hopefully roll some in. And a third win, you know, that would be -- it would be really, really nice, but it's a long way off, so I'm not trying to think about that too much.
 THE MODERATOR: All right. Questions.

 Q. Does your experience of having won twice already this year give you an edge do you think tomorrow over a lot of these guys who have never won?
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah. I think so. I mean I think for me experience is very key, and knowing how to handle certain situations. But everybody has, you know, even Tiger Woods at one point had never won out here. So you gotta start somewhere, you know. It's going to be a tough day, but I'm looking forward to the challenge.

 Q. How have you been able to manage your game this week? You told me on Wednesday you were getting a little bit tired. You didn't make a big deal of it, but it's been a long run for you with the PLAYOFFS. How have you managed your game so well fighting whatever fatigue there was early on in the week?
 NICK WATNEY: I'm trying to keep it really simple, you know. I've driven the ball pretty well, and it's just been fairly easy to -- I've hit quite a bit of greens, and I think that's what you need to do out here is give yourself as many chances as possible. I've been able to do that so far, so that's the game plan for tomorrow.

 Q. Kevin Na told us yesterday that's what he's trying to do, just hit straight, hit it on the greens and make putts. It really comes down to just simply executing shots, doesn't it?
 NICK WATNEY: It is, yeah. I mean this course is right out there in front of you. It's fairly short for TOUR standards, and it's just about execution. You're exactly right. 

 Q. Now, you had a couple of -- 9 and 14 in the bunker. You couldn't get up-and-down, but seemed like you remained calm. You didn't let that get to you when you had fairly easy birdie chances. You were able to keep calm.
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah. Those were definitely disappointing to walk off with pars, but once it's over, that's what I've kind of been trying to do this week is stay a little more even keel whereas during the PLAYOFFS I would probably get a little more frustrated, and it didn't help anything. 
 So yeah, it was disappointing not to make birdie on those holes, but you know, you just gotta move on. And I mean like 15, like you said, I didn't make birdie, but I was able to birdie the next three. So if I would have gotten a little frustrated, that might not have been the case.

 Q. Do you think that has something to do with your maturity, having learned from previous tournaments over the years how to deal with -- just letting that hole go, put it behind you quicker?
 NICK WATNEY: Maybe. Maybe a little bit of that, and a little bit of, you know, kind of letting it go. I mean things have -- this week, you know, I might not have been really wanting to play well as much. I mean I wanted to play well, but not to the same degree as last week in Atlanta. I think I could definitely learn from that just for hopefully next year and in the future I can put a little less pressure at the start and maybe I can be in a better position coming in.

 Q. Given where you were when you got the (indiscernible), are you surprised to be where you are at the moment, the top of the leaderboard, just given everything you've been through during the whole PLAYOFFS, especially Atlanta?
 NICK WATNEY: It's a pleasant surprise, yeah. I mean I definitely wanted to -- I mean coming in here I wanted to make the cut. I didn't want to miss the cut at a home tournament. But I didn't really think that -- I didn't think I'd be in this position, so yeah, it is a pleasant surprise.

 Q. And obviously being at home has to have helped you in terms of maintaining your energy level because you're in familiar surroundings. You're not in a hotel. You're home with your wife and everything. Just seems like it has to play a role in this.
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah. We've been taking it really easy at night. And yeah, I think so. Just the comfort of home and sleeping in our own bed and just relaxing for the week has been really nice. 

 Q. (Indiscernible).
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah. Might as well. Yeah.

 Q. Have you ever been on the top of a leaderboard like this where you haven't really holed a lot of long putts?
 NICK WATNEY: Not that I can think of, to be honest. I mean most of the time that I've been up on the leaderboard I've been playing really well all facets of the game, and this week, you're right, I haven't really holed very many putts. I'm hoping that that will be tomorrow and maybe I can shoot a real low --

 Q. Are you surprised at how well the course has held up for you guys?
 NICK WATNEY: To be honest, these guys know what they're doing, and in the heat, to be sure. And I think this golf course holds up as well as any around town. So I think they've done a great job.

 Q. Everyone's raving about the greens.
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah. They're there. They're definitely good. 
 THE MODERATOR: All right, Nick. Thank you, sir. Appreciate it.
 NICK WATNEY: Thanks. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT