ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2017
Charley Hoffman
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Finishing 5-under, and Charley, we were just talking about the fun factor with this team event.  How much more fun is this than stroke play?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Well, it's nice hitting a good shot in there and not having to make a putt and just putting all the pressure on Nick.  But it's good to be out there with a buddy and obviously see some birdies go in the holes.  It's always a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Nick certainly handled the pressure well.  This is a course you know well.  How enjoyable was that to hole out on 18?  
NICK WATNEY: Well, it was really nice because I felt like I cost us a couple there on the back nine, so to contribute a little bit was nice.  But we didn't really know what would be a good score and not.  I think we're pleased with 5-under, and looking forward to the rest of the week.   
 Q.  Charley, was there a point on this course where you thought, we've got the hang of this alternate-shot thing?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: Well, we rattled off three in a row, which was nice, and sort of gave one back there.  Obviously I think we were in good rhythm all day.  We both hit pretty good drives and hit a lot of greens and gave ourselves opportunity.  Alternate-shot that's all you can ask for and obviously a little bonus there on 18, making that one, which Nick did.   
 Q.  Nick, nice chip-in eagle there at 18.  Is that because you've won here before, you've got a good sense of the golf course?  
NICK WATNEY: No, I mean, I think -- I feel like I hit a decent shot, but there's always a little bit of luck when you're rolling it through the fringe like that.  But that having been said, it's fun to be here again, and then to partner with Charley, it's kind of like -- we played on Tuesday, kind of a practice round, and it didn't feel that much different today, so we had a fun day.   
 Q.  How much different was today than a normal grind of a regular TOUR event?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: I didn't really feel much grind out there at all.  I enjoyed -- when I wasn't hitting the tee shot, walking up the fairway, and then if you did hit a tee shot, just go up to the green and have a putt for birdie.  I think it was very low stress for the most part.  We both hit a lot of good quality shots out there, and it was nice to see a few putts go in, which obviously left us somewhat near the lead.   
 Q.  Nick, what led you guys to pair together?  
NICK WATNEY: Well, it's a bit of a long story, but we've been friends for a long time and used to live near each other and all that stuff.  It was just a -- he was available, and I'm on a medical this year, so I wasn't quite sure how this tournament would factor in, but once I got the all-go, I was excited to play with Charley.   
 Q.  The format tomorrow with the four-ball, any difference in strategy?  
CHARLEY HOFFMAN: You know, if we keep hitting fairways and making putts, I think a low one is in our future, but this game is a fickle game, and hopefully we keep it going.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT