WGC BRIDGESTONE INVITATIONAL
August 4, 2011
Nick Watney
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You've got to be happy even though you finished with a bogey on the 18th?  
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I'm very pleased. Yesterday and this morning wasn't the greatest of warm-up sessions and whatnot, so the front nine was a bit of a struggle, but I'm very pleased with 5-under. Overall I'm very happy.  
  
  Q. What's that like when you're warming up and you don't know what you're going to do?  
 NICK WATNEY: Well, I just really try to manage myself well and just wait for something. I putted great today all day, and that kind of helped me on the front. And then I started hitting it better on the back and kept putting well. So it was a good day.  
  
  Q. Did something click on the back nine? Because that stretch from 10 through 12, it looked like you were firing on all cylinders.   
 NICK WATNEY: Yeah, I did. I found a little something on No. 9, and I was actually hitting a punch out of the trees and found a little something that helped me out on the back nine.   
  
  Q. You're the FedExCup leader, but it seemed like you were very freed up and confident in round one.   
 NICK WATNEY: I was, yeah. I didn't strike it very well on the range this morning, and the front nine was a bit of a struggle, but very, very pleased with today and really looking forward to this last stretch of tournaments running into the Playoffs.  
  
  Q. A lot of people see this week and next week as almost connected in a way because you bleed right into the PGA. Do you see this as a huge event or a lead-up to the PGA Championship?  
 NICK WATNEY: I think it's both. Obviously you want to do well here. It's a World Golf event, a really big event, like you said, but if you happen to not have a good week here, it's just a warm-up for the PGA, I guess you could look at it that way. But I'm just trying to focus on the here and now, and I'd like to continue to play well here.  
  
  Q. How would you assess your confidence with your own golf game right now?  
 NICK WATNEY: It's getting there, I think. The British Open was disappointing, but it's a few weeks ago now, so I'm just trying to continue working hard and keep improving and see where it takes me.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT