DESERT CLASSIC
January 20, 2019
Adam Long
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A putt you'll remember the rest of your career as you get your first career victory on the PGA TOUR.  What did you see over the ball to roll it in on the 72nd hole?  
ADAM LONG: Honestly I got a pretty good read off Phil's putt.  It was one of those putts that you just stand over you just know you're going to make.  And you can't control that, but when you have that feeling it's a good one.  And I'm in pretty disbelief right now, I don't really know what happened.   
 Q.  To do it in that fashion in the final group with Phil Mickelson and Adam Hadwin, you had those couple chip-ins on the back side.  At what point did you really start to believe that this is my day?  
ADAM LONG: Yeah, those chip-ins were huge and some putts on the front nine as well to just kind of hang in there.  And I mean it was a huge thrill to play with Phil obviously, I looked up to him my whole life and big fan of his and he couldn't have been greater to me out there and he was awesome to play with, a lot of fun.  Can't believe some of those tee shots he hit but, yeah and same with Adam, I got a really fortunate pairing and, yeah, I just kept plugging away and it was kind of the Phil and Adam Hadwin show for most of the way.  Everyone was chanting Phil's name most of the way and a lot of Canadians down here and I was kind of in the background, trying to do my thing and just hit some fairways and give myself looks for birdie.   
 Q.  We went over your career resume and all the spots that you've been to get to this point as a 31 year old.  You didn't win on the PGA TOUR Latin America, the MacKenzie TOUR, or WEB.COM  TOUR.  Now you get your first victory on the PGA TOUR.  What's the journey been like to finally get to this point?  
ADAM LONG: In some ways it's been a little bit of a roller coaster, but it's been a steady improvement throughout my career.  Yeah, I mean I've played in pretty much most tours around the world that there are and just kind of steadily progressed and just kind of can seem like it came out of nowhere but my game's been trending in the right direction for really the last two years now.   
 Q.  Six tournaments, Phil, 596th event for him, and you win on the PGA TOUR and you look like the calmest of the bunch out there.  What is going on?  
ADAM LONG: Well, I mean I had nothing to lose, I was just out there having fun trying to hit fairways and greens and give myself looks for birdie and watching those guys and mine it's fun to watch Phil play, I never have seen it up close like that and it's a different game than mine, by a long stretch, but just tried to focus on what I had to do and just was fortunate to make that putt there at the end.   
 Q.  Early in your career but, man, can't ask for anything better, your first opportunity to get it done and you got it done.  Has it sunk in yet?  Do you realize all the things that you're afforded to in these Majors and everything else?  
ADAM LONG: Not really, but it's pretty exciting.  I mean I was, I wasn't even in the field for next week in San Diego, I was an alternate.  So we'll take it one week at a time, but, yeah, it's exciting and changes I want to say my life but it changes my career for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT