DESERT CLASSIC
January 17, 2019
Adam Long
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. For starters let's go back to number 4 with that eagle.  Can you walk us through what happened there.
ADAM LONG: Yeah, I needed something to jump start.  I started out pretty slow and bogeyed the first and kind of scrambling for pars on 2 and 3 and I was kind of, it was -- I just hit a good tee shot and good 3-wood to get up there just short of the green and had about 25 yards of a pitch and hit it up there nicely and I was fortunate for it to go in.
Q. PGA TOUR rookie, you look up at the scoreboard right now and your name is directly below Phil Mickelson.  What goes through your mind right now?
ADAM LONG: It's pretty cool.  There's obviously a lot of golf left, but we just try to do our best each day and just to be out on the first page of the leaderboard is always a good thing.
Q. You're from the East Coast.  Have you ever been out here before, played this course and if not did you come out earlier than usual?
ADAM LONG: I played a junior tournament here years ago as a kid and then I played finals of Q-School here in 2011 and so I was familiar with it.  But I was planning on coming out early but I got into the Sony kind of last minute, so I played Sony, missed the cut and came out here Saturday.  So I had Sunday to prep.  But, yeah.
Q. Did you get to practice on all three of the courses?
ADAM LONG: Yeah, yeah, I was fortunate, we get to take carts in these practice rounds, so you can buzz around pretty quick.  I played them all, had my coach in town for a few days and kind of got things on the right track.
Q. The stretch in the middle of the round, five birdies in a row, is there anywhere else in the round that you maybe holed a putt or did something to keep the momentum going that sticks out to you?
ADAM LONG: No, that was definitely the stretch that was the game changer.  The eagle was huge as far as just getting, turning the page and getting some momentum going in my direction, so that was huge.  And then that stretch I just kept hitting it pretty close and making some good rolls and they were going in and I just kept feeding off it and tried to keep the pedal down.
Q. You ever heard of the saying, I've heard of many good rounds that started with a bogey?
ADAM LONG: Yes, and several of mine have started that way, so it can be a good thing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT