U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 25, 2015
P.H. Horgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Next up is P.H. Horgan, shot a 3 under, 67 in the first round.   Q.  Take us through your round today.  P.H. HORGAN: Started off a little shaky, making a good two-putt from 40 feet on the 1st hole.  Two-putt the next hole, up and down on 3, hit it close out of the bunker.  Then I started hitting greens.  I had birdie opportunities on 4, 5, 6.  Finally rolled one in on 7, parred 8, and then I made a nice 10-footer on 9 to go two under. Then 10 I almost holed it, ended about six inches, sand wedge in there close.  11, I hit it about eight feet, made it to go to 4 under.  And then par on the converted par 5, par 4 there, a good two-putt.  Then I hit my best shot of the day on the par 3, 220-yard par 3, and it rolled over just into the heavy stuff.  I thought I was on the green, and I had a really tough chip, and I left it short and two-putted for bogey. I birdied the next hole from about 8 feet, back to 4 under.  I missed one of my few fairways on 15, had to gouge it out, hit it out about 15 feet, missed the putt for par.  And then good two-putt on 17 and 18. So I played consistent.  But it's hard to say whether it's easy or hard.  The U.S. Open venues are just -- this is brutally hard.  I've played in a lot of Opens, regular tour.  This rough is as high as I've seen it back to '94 at Oakmont.  This is probably as high as I've seen rough around the greens and off the fairways.   Q.  How tough are the greens, and how tough was that first putt on 18?  P.H. HORGAN: Well, I saw Jim knock it about 10 feet by, and I said, wow, I better just kind of ease this down there, and I left it short about 2 1/2 feet.  But yeah, like 18, you have to drive it well.  Then you have to force carry over the gulley.  You don't want to be short.  So you hit it a little long, and it takes off up the hill.  So a lot of aspects to that hole that make it difficult.  It's a great finishing hole. There really are not many easy holes out there, maybe 9, maybe 10, but it's a great golf course.  Super long for Champions Tour or Senior Tour players.  Like I said, high rough, fast greens.  But it's a great condition, just a great golf course, really is.   Q.  You hear some people say the heat did not affect them.  Others say that it did.  How were you handling the heat today?  P.H. HORGAN: Well, I actually like it when it's warm for all my ailments to stay kind of loose.  I've been staying in shape.  I've been running.  So I feel like I'm physically -- and I live in Florida.  So it's 95 degrees down there all the time. Granted, it is hot.  It's abnormally hot.  But I prefer it hot than cold, to be honest with you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT