AL DIVISION SERIES: TWINS VS YANKEES
October 4, 2019
Nelson Cruz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Nelson, because you have experience in postseason, can you just assess the mood of your team and some of the younger players at this point?  
NELSON CRUZ: We're good. We know that we're facing an important game. Definitely, anyone who's here right now is a good team, so it's not going to be easy. We know that. We're pretty confident in the team. We're going to just let the talent cover.   
 Q.  Hi, Nelson. Do you do anything differently to prepare for a postseason game than you would for a regular season game? Whether that's like personally, what you eat?  
NELSON CRUZ: I take my nap today. I do my routines every day. So same thing.   
 Q.  So we've heard about your leadership in the clubhouse and your impact on other players. What was your first impression of the Twins clubhouse when you joined the team, this group of players?  
NELSON CRUZ: Just a lot of talent, even before I was part of the team. From the other side, you can see everyone, even the lineup, playing defense. That's how much talent that we have. When I show up to Spring Training, even that I was more impressed because I could see on a daily basis what they can do.   
It's like any other teams you see to go to the World Series the last few years, a young group of guys, just put all the talent together, and it seems like that's what we did this year. All the young guys put everything together, and everyone have a great year, and for us win the division.   
 Q.  You are up for the Hank Aaron Award. How honored do you feel to be up for that award? Do you think this is your best season? You've had great seasons, but is this your best one?  
NELSON CRUZ: Definitely it's an honor. Just to be elected, it definitely right away makes it an honor to be elected. I think so far, yeah, because even the other seasons, I put up good numbers, but it doesn't mean much because we didn't go to the playoff. So when you can have a good season and take your team to the playoff, that's what you work for.   
 Q.  Nelson, what does playing in the postseason at this point in your career mean to you?  
NELSON CRUZ: More than anything. I think the first few years, especially myself, I went back to back to the World Series, I thought it was easy. I had to wait five years since the last time I went to the postseason. So definitely I appreciate it more, and I understand how difficult it is to be in this situation.   
 Q.  Nelson, you guys had the best road record in baseball this season. What is it about the Twins that make you guys so dangerous on the road? Is there a special quality? Is it just bonding? What is it? Is there something that goes into it?  
NELSON CRUZ: I have no clue. Maybe we like to hit first or we like to stay in hotels. No clue. There's some stuff in baseball you cannot explain. We should be better at home, but that's the way it is. We're playing on the road, so it's good.   
[ Speaking Spanish ].   
 Q.  Can you tell us what you said?  
NELSON CRUZ: She asked me what's my routine that makes me so successful at my age, and I said, with experience, you find a way, with a lot of work, you find routines that are going to help you. You pick and choose, and I try to just implement routines every year. If I find it doesn't help me to be better, I change. Not only, you have to put a lot of work, especially at my age. So rest. So that's why I make sure I take my naps and I have a good diet most of the days.   
 Q.  What did you say?  
NELSON CRUZ: Well, he asked me if it's the same pressure playing in the postseason in New York or any other places? I said postseason is the postseason, no matter where you go. You're going to feel pressure because all the attention the media has. It's a big stage. But definitely, when you play in New York, it makes it more special. You want to do better because there's, I guess, more people watching. As a player, this is a dream come true.   
I prepare myself in December to be at this point, and I can't be more excited for in three hours to be out there and give my best.   
 Q.  I know Martin was really looking forward to pitching in the playoffs. I know Willians always wants to play every day. How -- I don't know if you've seen them, but how did they take the news they're going to have to sit this series out, and how difficult is it for you as a teammate?  
NELSON CRUZ: We talked last night, and today we talked a little bit more. He's really positive. He's definitely disappointed because he feels like he can help the team win games. But I talked to him, the only way you can help us now is to be a cheerleader. Go out there and give your best and make sure your teammates understand that you're upset because you want to play, but at the same time, you give your best on the bench.   
 Q.  Nelson, you have a team option for next year. How much do you want to come back to Minnesota? And what does Minnesota mean to you?  
NELSON CRUZ: Well, definitely, I want to be back. I don't have that call, but hopefully, they can pick the option. The future looks really bright for us, so I want to be part of winning teams for many years. So hopefully, they give me the chance to be back with the team.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT