U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 22, 1994
Amy Alcott
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 AMY ALCOTT:  Well, there is always something to be said for momentum.
 And Helen, obviously, had a fabulous round yesterday and she
is playing very well in this tournament.  She is playing well
today, but I played this game long enough that I can't play Helen's
game or Tammie's game, or Dale Eggeling's game.  I am just trying
to go out and play my game.  That is how I tee off every day,
just to do the best I can do.  Just try to hit good golf shots;
be consistent; make a lot of pars in the U.S. Open; try to make
some birdies, and not really worry about too much, how far I am
behind, how far I am ahead, anything like that.

 LES UNGER:  This might be your 22nd straight Open?

 AMY ALCOTT:  I think it is my 21st.

 LES UNGER:  Back here in 1989, the records show that you tied
for 26.  Is the course very different than it was back then or
how would you answer that?

 AMY ALCOTT:  I don't have a real formidable recollection of this
course which I normally do on most golf courses.  I can normally
remember the holes but when I came back here, I had a lot of difficulty.
 This golf course, I think, takes a lot of local knowledge with
all its lumps and its nooks and crannies, so to speak.  But I
think it is a very good golf course.  I think each hole is different;
it tests all parts of your game.  You don't necessarily have to
hit a driver off of every hole, but it has a lot of length.  It
has -- it demands a lot from you.  But the wind is what, I think,
out here is what makes it more difficult.

 LES UNGER:  That is the next thought here.  Today there is
more wind than yesterday. Yesterday you were even, I believe,
and today --

 AMY ALCOTT:  More wind, yeah.

 LES UNGER:  More wind and you are 4 under, so you must have
played considerably better?

 AMY ALCOTT:  I take it quite well under adverse conditions. 
Don't ask me why, but I have done that most of my career.  If
you give me a wide open golf course, and a perfect 80 degree day,
and nice soft greens, I will probably shoot 72, 73.  Give me heavy
rough, tight fairways, wind, rain, hale, you know, I might set
a course record.  You know, it is just the way it has worked for
me.

 LES UNGER:  Tell us about your birdies and I guess you had
one negative there.

 AMY ALCOTT:  I birdied the first hole from two feet.  I hit a
pitching wedge and bogeyed number 2; driving it into the bunker
and having to chip out; hitting a good third shot, but missing
a ten foot par-saving putt.  3:  Missed about a 15 foot downhill
putt there.  4:  2-putting from about 15 feet.  5:  Was just short
of the green.  It is a par 3 and putted it up.  It was about a
35 foot putt; hit a very good putt, and made about a two foot
save for par.  6:  Hit a 4-iron about 12 feet from the hole and
made a side-hill putt, very good putt and made that for birdie.
 7:  Hit the green in two; made par from  -- I don't know how
far I was away.  I hit a good shot in there, about 20 feet, straight
up the hill; missed the putt.  8:  Hit a 6-iron right at the hole
about 15 feet and made a very good birdie putt, side-hill, fast
putt; made that.  9, I think, was an important hole for me today.
 I didn't hit my drive very well.  I hit a 7-wood off the 9th
tee and didn't quite carry it up over that sharp turn it makes;
it went down into the heavy grass. I chipped it out about 30 yards
and was just playing for bogey; maybe made par.  I hit a pitching
wedge in there about six feet from the hole and made a great par-saving
putt there.  So, I think that was the key to my momentum going
into the back side.  10, 2-putted for 50 feet there.  That was
another good 2-putt.  11:  I hit it in there ten feet from the
hole; missed it.  12:  Had a ten footer; went in the hole, came
out the front.  Heartbreak.  13:  I missed the green short; came
up short, hit a very good pitch shot to four feet and made that
to save par.  14, hit a good drive and a 7-wood long; left myself
about a 40 foot putt and made it.  It was a great putt.  Down
the hill, just  -- I stood there, took like 15 minutes for the
ball to get to the hole but it went in.  15:  Par 5, 2-putted
from 20 feet for par.  16:  2-putted from about 20 feet for par.
 17:  Missed the green right into the face of that big bunker;
hit an incredible little sand wedge; pitch up about six feet and
made it to save par.

 Q.  What did you take off the tee there?

 AMY ALCOTT:  3-wood.  Chip, 3-wood.  It was actually a 4-wood,
but I didn't have it in my bag.  I carry a 3 and a 7, so I have
been in between on 13 and 17 in the last couple of days.  It has
been like a hit and miss, guessing, depending on what the wind
is.  But I could have hit it hard and I didn't.  So I came up
short in the bunker.  My whole group was down there in the grass
and hit a great pitch out there and made the five foot, six foot
save.  18:  I hit a beautiful drive and turned a little 9-iron
in there, about ten feet and made a great birdie -- great birdie
on 18.

 LES UNGER:  The record is going to show about seven or eight
greats.

 AMY ALCOTT:  Yeah, well, might as well be positive.

 Q.  Your 2-putt on 10 from 50 feet, how far was the second
putt?

 AMY ALCOTT:  Five feet.

 Q.  Amy, 4 under will go into the books as a great round.
 What does that say about an 8 under round?

 AMY ALCOTT:  Well, I think to shoot 8 under on any golf course
-- but to shoot 8 under in the U.S. Open, you have just got to
be playing very, very well.  Let us call it exquisite, divine,
you know.

 Q.  Amy, Helen's down to 10 under now.  I know you don't worry
about how well anyone else is shooting but the mid-way point,
do you worry about how close you are; what position you are in;
anything like that?

 AMY ALCOTT:  No, I don't even think about it.  You know, tomorrow
is another day.  I am just going to go out and play golf; play
the best I can tomorrow and try to play as well as I did today
and just try to jockey myself, and just be in contention.  I can't
win the tournament today.  I can't win it tomorrow.  I just want
to continue to play my game and just try to be consistent.  I
can't really worry about what anybody else is doing.

 Q.  What has been the change for you this year, the last couple
of months; the turn around after struggling last year?

 AMY ALCOTT:  Well, I think when you don't play well, you lose
some confidence.  So the key is how do you get your confidence
back?  Comes from -- how do you get your desire back after playing
golf for 28 years, 19 years as a professional?  At some point,
you know, it is like that song - I don't know who sang it - I
don't think it was the Stones, but the thrill is gone, you know.


 Q.  BB king.

 AMY ALCOTT:  BB king.  (player singing) "the thrill is gone."
 When you are not playing very well, the thrill is gone, so now
how do you recreate it?  Well, I think sometimes just not thinking
about it too much; knowing that you have always had it and it
is just going -- life runs it's cycles and so does golf.  Concentrated
more on just trying to get the ball close to the hole rather than
worrying about my whole game in general.  Starting slow and just
trying to instead of, you know, it is easy to shoot 75s and 76s
and not be playing that bad to do it. Just doesn't take much to
do it.  But then how do you shave off the strokes and shoot 69,
70, 71s, good rounds.  I think it just -- it is rhythm.  It is
a rhythm.  It is a tempo that you get in and it is building your
confidence back.  I don't think you can put the cart before the
horse.  I think that you have to get your confidence up and start
playing well and then your desire comes back to play more.

 Q.  Did anything regarding that, was that a result of us talking
about so much about the, you know what?

 AMY ALCOTT:  No.  I mean, what bugs me is coming out; just open
the door in my hotel in Nashville Tennessee where I was trying
to get my U.S.A. Today; I didn't have any clothes on and I figure
it was safe it was 5:45 in the morning and I open it up just to
slip (the newspaper) it around; I am standing there naked.  There
is a guy standing there going "hope you win your 30th soon."
 And I look up and I am looking like, I said, well, I looked at
my clock, that is the earliest it started in the last two years.
 "5:45, music city, here we are."  What is this guy
standing outside of my room.  "Hope you win your 30th; go
get them this week."

 Q.  When was that?

 AMY ALCOTT:  Oh, back in May, you know, I just was just laughing.

 LES UNGER:  He wanted to steal your U.S.A. TODAY.

 AMY ALCOTT:  He was trying to steal my newspaper.

 Q.  I stayed at that hotel, but I wasn't up at 5:45.

 AMY ALCOTT:  I just figured it was some voyeur and I looked at
the guy, "thanks, how did you know it was me.  How did you
know it was my room."  "Oh, I'd recognize you anywhere."


 Q.  Are you sure it wasn't Jimmy Dean?

 AMY ALCOTT:  It might have been down there.

 Q.  Did you expect--

 AMY ALCOTT:  I don't even know if I answered your question. 
Do I think about it?  No, I don't really think about it.

 Q.  Talk about it?

 AMY ALCOTT:  No, I don't even talk about it.  I don't even think
about it.  I let everybody else do it.  I really don't.  You know,
I will tell you when I will think about it, which is the most
difficult thing when you -- when a number says you are great,
okay, that is the difficulty. There is a number out there and
that number says that you are better than, you know, that this
is what you have to achieve.  Sundays are difficult, okay.  Sundays,
when you are in contention, and you got a chance to win, there
is probably a little more subtle pressure, but, you know, I have
had chances to win even with all of that and I just say "Alcott,
you still have to go out and hit all the shots it takes to win
so don't even think about the Hall of Fame" and I don't think
about it that much.

 Q.  Did you expect a special exemption?

 AMY ALCOTT:  I think with my record in U.S. Opens and my record
in golf and being a former winner, I think it was a class thing
to do.

End of FastScripts....            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT