CAMBIA PORTLAND CLASSIC
September 17, 2020
Charlotte Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. How do you feel about this week, especially because it got shortened and because you guys haven't been able to practice as much?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS:   It's definitely different, different kind of preparation, but it's the same for everyone, which is nice.
And, yeah, you just kind of got to take what you can get and practice when you can and get as many holes in as you can and see as much of the course as possible before we play.
But, I mean, I played here before so I feel pretty good.  Like I really like the style of golf course and stuff like that, so that's nice.
But, yeah, it's definitely different from an average week on tour.
Q. What have you been during doing the days we've been stuck inside?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS:   Being cooking a little bit.  Did some workouts, hung out.  I'm staying in housing, so at least I have a little bit of company.
Q. And your golf game, have you just been trying as much to do your stretch es and exercises?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS:   Yeah, pretty much.  Just I got out for an hour of practice and four holes yesterday.  Monday I didn't do anything at all.  On Tuesday I went to an indoor facility.  I was able to hit a few balls there and hit a few putts.  So that was nice.
Q. Yeah.
CHARLOTTE THOMAS:   And, yeah, just trying to stay loose.  Because if you sit around for too long it easy to kind of tighten up, so I been doing a lot of working out and stuff like that to kind of keep --
Q. You've been playing really well.  How do you feel about this week?  It's three rounds.  Which part of your game are you going to focus on?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS:   Yeah, I think this course is playing quite soft so I think that there is going to be some low scores.  I think holing a lot of putts is going to be important, especially sort of inside 15 feet, so I'm going to do some putting practice, hit a few balls, and go play nine holes this afternoon.
Q. Lastly, have you felt any health complications because of being out in the air so long?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS:   A little.  Like I had a headache and my throat doesn't feel great.  Yeah, everything feels allege strange.  But like on the Whoop it's interesting to see respiratory rate.
Q. Your breathing rate?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS:   Yeah.  It's gone up a little bit but like nothing too crazy, but my recovery hasn't been great all week.  I think it's kind of messing with me a little bit, but same for everyone again, so...
Q. Any words of love from friends and family?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS:   Yeah.  I been chatting to them every day.  They're a little worried, but, I mean, I went to college this Washington and I'm actually staying in Vancouver, Washington this week, just across the bridge.
It's just sad to see.  Like the Pacific Northwest is so beautiful and it's so sad to see this happening.  Obviously we're able to play golf, but there are a lot of people who have lost their homes and are struggling.
So it's, yeah, it's important to keep it in perspective I guess.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT