ANA INSPIRATION
April 2, 2019
Charlotte Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Fantastic start for the season for you.
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Yeah.
Q. Talk about how it's gone so far.
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Yeah, so my first LPGA event as a member was the Vic Open at the beginning of February, and that is kind of where I spent my off-season, in Australia, down in Melbourne.  My brothers all went to university there.  We got a family house which is a ferry ride across from where (indiscernible) beach is.
So my brother was on the bag and my whole family was out, it and sort of felt like a home event.  So it was really cool to play well in that one and sort of a really big confidence boost.  I had no idea on Sunday I was even in the running for it.
Q. Finished second, right?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Yeah, I was a few shots black going into Sunday, and was just going out and playing golf on Sunday and make as many birdies as I could kind of thing, and walked off 18 and my brother was like, You're the leader in the clubhouse.  I'm like, No, I'm not.  (Laughter.)
So it was cool.  It was good to get that sort of good finish under my belt.
Q. Yeah.
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Then played in the Aussie as well.  Had a solid week.  Made the cut, which I think was important just to kind of -- it was hard going from the Vic to the Oz.  The adrenaline atmosphere first round compared to Sunday weren't quite there.  Took me a while to get back into the swing of things.
Made the cut there and played solid golf.  Had a couple weeks off and -- oh, well, I played an LET event in Bonville, Australia as well, and then came back here.
My first event stateside was Phoenix a couple weeks ago and I finished sixth there.
Q. So it was really good to back up a really good really early promising performance with another strong performance.
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Yeah, I think so.  I think it was good to sort of prove again to myself a little bit, Okay, that wasn't just a one-off kind of thing.  Because it felt like a home event.  I was very comfortable on that golf course and it was like, yeah, very much in my comfort zone.
In Phoenix it was my first event in the States as an LPGA member or LPGA at all in the States.  So, yeah, to play well there, especially on the last day as well after a rough finish on Saturday just was really nice.
Q. How are you settling into LPGA life?  You're used to traveling around.  You grew up in Singapore; is that right?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: I did, yes.  Moved to Singapore when I was 12 and did high school there, and then I've actually been playing on the -- well, I did college in the States, University of Washington, and then last two years I've been playing on the Symetra Tour, the little sister tour for the LPGA.
So I've gotten used to the travel through that.  It's a little different.  We drive everywhere out there.  It's a little bit of a change getting used to different travel on the LPGA and obviously the bigger scale of everything.  Everyone has been really lovely and I'm loving it.  Food is amazing always.  Every week.
Q. Yeah.
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Which is a bonus.  Yeah, it's all good.
Q. Does it feel like home in the States now?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: It does pretty much, but I don't know where in the States.
Q. Not based in anywhere?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: No.  My parents live in Connecticut and I did school in Seattle, but my parents are actually moving back to Australia, so I won't have a base here in I more.  I might get a base somewhere at the end of this year.  Just not really sure where yet.
America does feel like home, but Australia is also like home as well.   England is home in a different way.
Q. How often do you get back to the U.K.?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Haven't been back since 2016 after the Curtis Cup.  I went and  visited for a week.  But I've still got some family there, and looking forward to going back for the British.  Hopefully I get into that one.
Q. Solheim Cup; is that on your radar yet?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: I mean, not really.  I'm not an LET member so I don't think I'm eligible this year sadly.  But it wasn't really on my radar this year.  I didn't time think I would sort of be in the running.
Playing well the first few events maybe I could have been,  but it's all right.  There is plenty more time.
Q. Looking ahead to this week, first time here?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: At the ANA, yes.  I played first stage Q-School at this golf course.
Q. Cool.  That helps that you know it then.
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Yes.
Q. Is is a course you like?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: It's lovely.  I'm guessing it'll play a little differently this time of year compared to middle of summer when it's 120 degrees.  I played it a couple weeks ago actually, but haven't played it this week yet, so I'm excited to have a look.
Q. Yeah.
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Yeah.  Really enjoy the layout.  I think it's a really good championship course.
Q. How is your game feeling?  Probably a silly question given your results the last couple of months, but is it feeling good?
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Yeah, it feels solid.  I didn't play as well as I would've liked last week at the Kia.  I mean, yeah, no, I'm still feeling good and just excited to be here and playing in a major.
Just really cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT