BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 21, 2019
Charlotte Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  7-under par.  What was the key to your round this morning?  
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: It was sort of just steady; bit boring.  Just sort the holed putts when I had opportunities.  Bogeyed my first hole so I was a little bit annoyed after that.   
Sort of got a fire in my belly and then birdied next hole and finished the front nine well and then got off to a good start on the back nine and a good finish on the back nine.   
It was just sort solid all the way through.   
 Q.  First time playing this course this year?  
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Yes, yep.   
 Q.  What do you think of the course?  
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: I really like it.  It's set up really well.  Like you got a lot of birdie opportunities, which is nice.  There are quite a lot of wedges into holes, but you still got to hit good shots.  The greens are amazing; they run really well.   
It's nice if you've got opportunities to be able to hole some putts as well.   
 Q.  Rookie on the LPGA this year.  
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Uh-huh.   
 Q.  Do you ever think you would be leading at some point during the first round of your first domestic event?  
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: No.  I'm really excited.  No, it's cool.  It's fun.  There is some low scores out there today, so we'll see if I'm still leading at the end of the day or not.   
 Q.  Was the breeze enough to get your attention out there a little bit?  
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: Last couple of holes, but other than that, not really.  It was perfect teeing off at 10 past 7:00 this morning.  It was ideal.  Bit of rain this morning as well so the greens were a little bit softer and a little bit more receptive.  That was nice as well.   
 Q.  Steady and boring.  Is that good?  
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: I love it.  (Laughing.)  I'll take that every day.  Yep.   
 Q.  You also played well at the Vic, so really you're off to a really strong start.  Anything particular you did coming into this year that you feel like got you ready?  
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: I think first of all like I played the last couple years on Symetra and I think that prepared me really well for sort of course setup that you have out here.  The Symetra Tour is really good at making it as similar as possible.   
I've just felt really comfortable sort of getting going.  The Vic was nice because that's sort of a home tournament for me.  I'm not Australian, but my family lives in Melbourne.  My brother was on the bag and it was quite a relaxed start to the year there.   
Then here I just feel, yeah, just feeling good.  Worked heart with my coach over the off-season.  Yeah, so happy to get off to a good start.   
 Q.  Any particular shots or anything that stood out about your round other than steady and boring?  
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: I think it was mostly my wedge game that helped he.  I hit a few nice and close and sort of just tap-in distance, which makes it a little bit easier.   
Then if you hole a couple 15, 20-footers as well it sort of just adds up.  I think my wedge game was what helped me most today.   
 Q.  Are traveling with any family this year on the LPGA?  
CHARLOTTE THOMAS: My mum will be out to a few and my dad will be out to a few, but for the is most part I'll be out on my own.  They might be over in Europe if I get into those events, the British and Evian, so we'll see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT