NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v PHILLIES
October 5, 2011
Ryan Madson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Ryan, as the stretch of baseball that the Cardinals have been on, how important and crucial is it to finish the job and finish them off in Game 4?
 RYAN MADSON: Well, baseball is a lot about momentum, and I think we took some back definitely last night, even though it was a close game. So definitely just finish the deal tonight would be the ideal choice, I guess. 

 Q. What do you enjoy most about the roles of being a closer?
 RYAN MADSON: The excitement. It's a lot more going on in the 9th inning. There's no calvary behind you to come in and save you. That's probably the biggest difference, and that's what makes it that much more intense. I think I like that the most. 

 Q. Was last night the perfect scenario of that, bases loaded?
 RYAN MADSON: Perfect scenario of a closer is a three-run lead in the ninth. That's the perfect scenario. But it's fun getting different situations thrown at you, and I was glad to get through it. I knew it wasn't going to be easy, but just trying to go one hitter at a time and got through it. It wasn't pretty, but it worked. 

 Q. Might that situation last night have been more intimidating earlier in the year when you were newer to this role?
 RYAN MADSON: No, my days go on how you feel physically most of the time. That was three out of four, and usually with a workload, a higher workload on, usually my stuff falls off a little bit, as most people's do. But it's playoff time, and the excitement of that definitely overtook any kind of fatigue, and tonight will be the same thing. 

 Q. The last couple of post-seasons this bullpen has been kind of a finished product by the time the playoffs came around. I'm curious, this year it seems like guys are still trying to find their way. How much mentoring are you and Brad (Lidge) doing with the younger guys?
 RYAN MADSON: We have all year long. I have, and a couple other guys, as well. Baez was huge in helping mentor me and others, and we've just kind of just passed that around. It's more about confidence and just trusting your stuff, you know, confidence basically, in that these guys can't hit us and we're here for a reason. 
 Even on the days you don't feel good, to go out there with all the confidence in the world, that's kind of what I have to preach to them or like to preach to them.

 Q. Imagine that two-pitch eighth inning really helped you out, but curious how you felt you bounced back from last night?
 RYAN MADSON: I feel good. I just got off the massage table, so if I look swollen that's what it is. I feel great. I feel like I can pitch another inning. Not a whole lot more than that. But the playoffs, the excitement and the adrenaline is bumped up, and that definitely helps. Just trying to be clean out there today with mechanics and not trying to do too much.

 Q. You said just how big it was to take Game 3. How much of an advantage is it to have these pitchers, Roy (Halladay), Roy (Oswalt), Cole (Hamels) and Cliff (Lee), to have these pitchers, especially in a short series here where you guys now have the advantage? 
 RYAN MADSON: Yeah, we know -- I should say the hitters know that they're going to be in the game all the way until the end. Having guys like that, and you know what you're going to get out of them, the hitters should go out there and feel relaxed and confident that they can push enough runs across for either one of those guys, or any of our starters really. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT