ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2017
Quentin Hillsman
Alexis Peterson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Syracuse - 83, UNC - 64   
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: Well, obviously here in the tournament, survive and advance, and that's what we wanted to do.  We went in and played well and survive and advance and win the game.  I thought the kids really played tough.  This was a game that we knew we had to be tough to win the game, and we had to rebound the ball.  I thought offensive rebounding was so huge for us tonight.  We really did a good job of crashing the boards and getting opportunities, second-chance opportunities, and we were just really aggressive.  We wanted to attack them downhill, play in the paint, and keep our pressure up, and I thought we did a great job tonight.   
 Q.  This was just a fantastic first 10 minutes in, but the fourth quarter kind of a slow down.  Was that just by design or you all had a lead and were just trying to protect it?  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: That's it, yeah.  We were just trying to run sets.  We played a session game.  We looked at the clock and know there's not enough possessions for us to lose unless we give up threes and turn the ball over and start fouling them.  So yeah, that's exactly what we did.  We just shortened the game because we knew the game was over.   
 Q.  Comment if you would about Jamie Cherry, just an excellent ball player for North Carolina.  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: She's amazing.  She's a very good, good point guard, and obviously I know what having a great point guard is like, because I have one.  Any time you have a good point guard you have a chance to win, and she's a dynamic player.  I think once they get healthy and get their guards back they're a very good basketball team.   
and she's tough.  Like I said, I have the luxury of having a great point guard because I have the best one right here.   
 Q.  Alexis, are there some nights -- you were electric particularly in the first half.  Are there some nights when you get out there that you can just feel it and you know that you're on?  
ALEXIS PETERSON: I think the way we came out, my teammates making shots, we were getting turnovers, we were getting easy baskets, I was able to feed off their energy and just the way they came out to play, it really sparked me and made me want to contribute and do my part.   
 Q.  Alexis, talk about the tournament experience for you now and also with that Player of the Year award.  
ALEXIS PETERSON: Well, the tournament experience, this is obviously my last one, so I just want to enjoy it.  I want to stay in the moment.  We have a great team, and I'm extremely blessed to be this year's Player of the Year.  It means a lot to me, to my team, coaches, everyone that's helped me get to this point in my career.   
 Q.  Is there any way you could be maybe less demonstrative on the sidelines?  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: Probably not.  I don't know.  You know, it's funny because we talk about bringing energy and playing hard, and I just want our kids to compete and be successful, and I just know that I've got to be there with them.  Like I said, some games I feel like I played.  But it is what it is.  We're successful and our kids are playing hard, and that's all I want.   
 Q.  You've got Duke coming up.  When you played them at Cameron, you shot 25 percent in that particular game.  Anything without giving away the store that you might do differently, or are you just going to go out and play your game?  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: No, we've got to play our game.  We just missed shots in that game.  We got some good looks and we missed shots.  But Duke played a really good game.  They came out, they attacked us in transition, and when you don't score, you can't press, and that was big for us because we didn't make enough shots.  We couldn't get into our pressure.   
Hopefully we can get some shots to go in early and be able to press them.   
 Q.  Alexis, this is maybe one of the games where you're going to have four of the top guards in the ACC going up against one another.  There's been a lot of talk between you and Duke about who has the best two guards.  Your thoughts on that?  
ALEXIS PETERSON: We just try not to feed into that.  We just want to come out and play hard like we've been doing all season.  Brit and I, we're competitors so we're going to compete and we're going to raise up to the challenge.  Our team is going to back us up, and we're just going to play Syracuse basketball.   
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: Yeah, I don't  -- I mean, it's the same.  We're just going to go out and play.  They have two dynamic guards.  I think it's going to be a very good game to have, like you said, four of the best guards in the country playing in the game.  You know, so we've just got to go out and do the things that we do well, and it's going to be a great game.  We look forward to the challenge.  That's why we're here, and that's why we come out and play is to play the best, and tomorrow night we're going to play one of the best in the country.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT