ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2016
Quentin Hillsman
Alexis Peterson
Brittney Sykes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Notre Dame - 68, Syracuse - 57   
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: Just really disappointed to lose the basketball game.  We didn't come here to show up just to be here.  We came here to win this game.  Just a tough game.  Got to give Notre Dame a lot of credit.  They played a really tough basketball game.  They did what they had to do to win.  They threw the ball inside to Turner.  She was tremendous today.  I thought our kids really fought hard, and in terms of coming to a game where you're playing against a great team, you've got to give tremendous effort, and I thought our kids played with tremendous effort.  I thought our kids just did everything we had to do to keep us in the game, to keep us in arm's distance of touching them and winning the game.  But down the stretch you've got to make a couple plays, and we didn't, so at the end of the day that's what it's about, making plays down the stretch.  But I love these kids.  They really competed to a high level and got a lot of basketball left.   
 Q.  Defensively especially in the first half, what was the problem going against a team that's so versatile offensively?  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: Well, we had a hard time getting matched up in some situations, but I thought at the end of the day, when you're down by 12 and you're not really scoring the ball at a good rate and you're right there in distance, and we just wanted to be there.  If we wasn't winning at halftime, we wanted to be at arm's distance, and we were, so we just had to make a few more plays to get matched up.  We just didn't do a good job getting matched up in certain situations.   
 Q.  Brittney, how frustrating was it when sometimes even you'd get the press set up and then they would throw the ball deep down the court?  
BRITTNEY SYKES: I don't think it was a matter of frustration, just we have to run through our press and just get back, and if they are throwing that pass, we make our adjustments, and we did.  And we went into our double face, and we got them matched up, so that was the key to the game, just getting matched up, make sure they can't pass the ball down the court and pass to their shooters in the corner.   
 Q.  Coach, how would you kind of evaluate Briana Day's play down low?  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: I thought Briana Day did a good job today.  We threw the ball down to her, we knew we had to attack her a little bit down in the paint, and we did that, just made some good moves.  I thought it was a very physical game for her.  She had to really fight defensively, and offensively she got the ball, and you know, I don't think anybody would have thought that Notre Dame would have came in and double-teamed her in the post.  So it says a lot about what they think of her as a post player that when the ball went inside, they doubled her.  So it was a game where I thought she played really tough, very physical, tough basketball game.   
 Q.  Coach and then Alexis, can you talk about Lindsay Allen, her play today, and the challenges she offered?  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: Well, I thought that we did a pretty good job on Lindsay.  She had eight points and six assists.  So at the end of the day, I thought that was a great job.  That was a match-up that we wanted to win.  Alexis had 19 points.  So I thought we took care of that match-up, and that's what we wanted to do.   
ALEXIS PETERSON: She's a great guard.  She's a great point guard.  She's solid.  She does all the things that her coach needs her to do.  She runs her team.  But I think we look forward to the challenge of going and containing her, and I thought we did a pretty good job.   
 Q.  Coach, with switching back and forth with the man and the zone, what went into some of those decisions?  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: Well, we tried to get matched up.  We thought if we got in front of them and got matched up in the second half we would be in pretty good shape.  We went into the half 27-26, so I think the match-up was a big thing and a big reason why we were in the basketball game second half.   
 Q.  You said that you see this team playing a lot of basketball left.  Where do you think this team can go?  
QUENTIN HILLSMAN: We can win the championship, win the NCAA Tournament.  Everybody starts off 0-0, so we should get two games at home, we play pretty well at home.  We should have moved up somewhere 4 seed, we should be a pretty high 4 seed, go on the road to a very favorable matchup, win those two, Final Four, win that one, capture the game, win that one, cut down some nets.  Normally how it works.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT