MIAMI OPEN PRESENTED BY ITAú
March 27, 2021
Denis Shapovalov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. SHAPOVALOV/I. Ivashka
 6-7, 6-4, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. I want to ask you about your match from today.  You have really good stats on serve and return.  You managed to keep those good statistics from Dubai Duty Free Championship.  How do you feel today in your first Miami match?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, definitely super tough one against Ivashka.  I think he played really well.  Never easy coming into a Masters where you have a bye because the other player has already played a match, and obviously he was in top form.
 So for sure was extremely difficult.  Especially in the first set.  So really happy I was able to turn the match around and kind of get those feelings from Dubai, you know, into the second and third set.  So I'm really happy.
 I do think I was lucky, as well, with the rain delays and stuff like that.  You know, overall just super happy to get through it.
 Q. I have heard from a lot of other players that the court speed here in Miami is a lot slower than it was in Dubai.  How are you finding that?  Do you prefer a faster or slower court?  For your game style, how do you mind a slower court?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, definitely slower over here than it was in Dubai.  Honestly, I'm not sure.  I have had success in both.  In Stockholm when I won the tournament it was extremely, extremely slow, and I have had a lot of success in quick conditions such as Dubai, as well.
 So I do think I'm able to play well on both.  I think it's just about adapting and kind of getting used to the conditions here in Miami.
 So again, I'm super happy to get the win today, and it kind of gives me a little bit more time to get used to the courts and the conditions.
 Q. Your next opponent is someone very familiar to you, Hubert Hurkacz, you played in Dubai.  Tell me about your next match.
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, definitely, definitely super tricky next match.  Me and Hubert have played many times now and just recently in Dubai.  I felt like I played really, really exceptional tennis.  Hopefully I can use that confidence and use those moments from last week and try to transition it into this week.
 Of course it's different conditions, different surface.  It's going to be a new match and definitely a tough battle ahead of me.
 Q. What do you think about your next rival, Hurkacz?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, I mean, I answered that.  Definitely very tough player.  We have played many times, so, you know, definitely a super tough battle ahead of us.
 We played recently in Dubai and I was able to play really well.  But of course it's different conditions, so, you know, looking forward to a tough match.
 Q. Looked like you were struggling a little bit with your toss tonight.  When your serve was in, you had really great stats, over 70% second serve points won.  Is that something you're working on right now or changing anything, or was it just a little shaky tonight?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, for sure.  I think it's something I'm working on, and for sure I want to have a more stable toss.
 I do think it's gone a lot better throughout the year, and especially throughout the last couple of years, and my serve has gone more consistent and more solid and has become a weapon.
 You know, for sure it's something I'm going to keep working on, and hopefully at some point I will have a super stable toss.
 Q. Tough match tonight.  What's the most satisfying part of the coming back and getting the win in the end?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, I think just winning.  In the end, of course there is a lot of moments where even in a comeback the match can turn the other way again.
 Yeah, I was really happy to kind of stay on the accelerator and pretty much -- you know, I felt like I was leading the second and third sets, and I felt like I had a lot of chances.  So I'm really happy I was eventually able to convert on those and just get the win today.  I think it's a really, really good win for me.
 Q. I want to ask you about the main ideas or advices that your coach, Mikhail Youzhny, have tell you here in Miami, because he played here a lot of times.  So which have been the main ideas or advice that he have give to you here in Miami?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, I mean, it's a lot of things I'm familiar with, as well.  Obviously I had a very good run here two years ago and the first time I played in Miami.  It's always swirly winds here and not the easiest conditions to play.
 So he warned me of the same things, to be ready, to accept a lot of like shanks and a lot of just like awkward points over here in Miami.
 So, you know, it's something I'm ready, something I'm used to, and I feel like I'm able to play well here.  So it's not a huge concern for me.
 Q. I would like to ask you about Ruusuvuori.  He was born in the same year like you, so maybe you know him since juniors.  He's improving his game.  What do you think about him?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, no, he's definitely a great player.  He had an unable win against Sascha the other day.  I watched that match, and he was playing really well, super solid.  I was really impressed.
 I have always been a big fan of his game.  He's a super nice guy.  I don't know him too personally, but he's always polite and we always say hi.  Yeah, he seems like a great guy.  Definitely great to have players like this on the tour.  I think it's super exciting.  And for me as a tennis fan, it's easy on the eye to watch his game.
 Q. Obviously your fellow countryman, Vasek, had that incident a few nights ago, and I was wondering if you had a position on that or do you feel like the players are a little bit underrepresented right now?  Are you on the side of the PTPA or what's your stance?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, I mean, I don't know -- I wasn't at the meeting, so I don't know what went down.  You know, knowing Vasek personally for him to get this upset and have it bother him during a match, something must have happened.
 I have heard from several players a lot of not great information.  So, you know, I'm definitely on the PTPA side.  I think we are not underrepresented, but I think there is ways that we could be represented better.
 And, yeah, that's pretty much it.  I don't think that the ATP is doing the fullest job that they can be.  I think there is other ways and there are players that are trying to introduce or help within the ATP bring in different information or sponsors and this and that, and basically we're all getting shut down.  They are just telling us to go and play tennis which in my opinion it's not right.  They shouldn't, you know, talk to us like that if we're partners.  And, yeah, that's my position.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT