US OPEN
September 4, 2020
Denis Shapovalov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. SHAPOVALOV/T. Fritz
 3-6, 6-3, 4-6, 7-6, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Take us through that five-setter.  Where were the points of emphasis for you?  When did you think it changed?  Give us your mindset.
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, it was definitely an up-and-down match.  I feel like throughout the match there was a lot of momentum switches.  I was down first, then up in the second and third, then he came back, then I broke back.  It was a little bit of a seesaw there.
 Felt like he kind of ran with it at the beginning of the fourth.  I felt like I was getting good looks on his serve games, so I just wanted to stay with him.  I know it's never easy serving out a match like that, so I'm getting a little bit tight.  Just tried to make him play as much as possible.
 I felt like we both played a really good tiebreak, both served really well.  I just got a little bit lucky.  I guessed the right direction on set point.  I was able to hit a good forehand.
 In the fifth set, I felt I had the experience the last two years losing in five sets.  Felt like my opponents really raised their game, stepped up their level and intensity in that fifth set.  I tried to do the same today.  I felt like getting that early break, getting that good start, was critical.
 I'm really happy I was able to get the win.
 Q. Do you feel in this particular instance it was beneficial to you playing an American, that there were no fans?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, definitely.  I feel like he was obviously the crowd favorite, so playing without the fans this match, of course it's a little bit easier for me.  But, yeah, I do get a lot of love in New York.  There's a lot of support for me as well.  I'm sure he would have still been the crowd favorite, but I don't think it would have been 100-0.
 Q. Give us your mindset going to play doubles.
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, it was definitely not easy coming after a five-set match.  I mean, I committed to playing doubles.  I was excited.  Obviously I was happy it wasn't a full match today.  That would have been a little bit tougher.  But honestly, my body felt good after the singles, which was good.  I was able to move and play well in doubles, as well.
 Q. Give us a sense of how you feel going into the second week now.
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, I don't think it changes.  Obviously every match that I played has been tough.  It's not going to change.  It's going to continue to be tough, if not tougher.  I'm ready for anything ahead of me.
 I'm really, really happy to still be alive.  I felt like that was a really close escape today.  Yeah, I'm just looking forward to the next match.
 Q. Give us an idea of your training.  Not a lot of match play coming into the Open.  Where are you physically and mentally for a two-week tournament?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, definitely some spots of my body are aching a little bit.  I feel like now it's getting a bit easier.  My body is getting used to the long matches.  I felt like the first two rounds I was getting pulls and a little bit of pain here and there.  It was a bit trickier.
 Now, honestly, after today's five-setter, I don't feel as fatigued as I did the first two matches.  Yeah, it's definitely getting used to it.  I knew this going into the tournament that it's not going to be easy after a six-month break to go out and play three-out-of-five set matches.  I knew it was going to be difficult.
 I'm really happy that I've been able to stay healthy this far.
 Q. What concerns you most, the mental or the physical part?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Both.  I think both.  I didn't know where my game was at.  I didn't play any exhibitions, or any matches for that matter.  Just a lot of practicing the last four, five months.  Definitely mental going into these tournaments.
 Also physical, like I said, four or five months you're practicing, but you're not really Grand Slam ready.  To dive into a Grand Slam like that, it's definitely tricky and not easy for the body.  I'm really happy to be kind of battling through it.  Actually really happy with how my body feels today.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT