AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 12, 2021
Denis Shapovalov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  F. AUGER-ALIASSIME/D. Shapovalov
 7-5, 7-5, 6-3
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Bad luck.  You were up a break in the first set and second set what went wrong at that time?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, I mean, I started really well.  Thought I had all the momentum and then just got tight.  Just sprayed four points in a row.  Nerves got to me a little bit, and after that he got some belief and he started playing really well.  Yeah, it was tough after that.  I regrouped in the second set.
 Yeah, just a little bit of spraying today, couple loose errors, and that was pretty much the difference.
 Q. I was wondering if you could tell us, how do you assess the level of game you've expressed throughout the tournament regardless of tonight's result?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Sorry, what?  My level?
 Q. Yeah, your level of tennis throughout the tournament regardless of the result of it.
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Yeah, no, I think definitely playing at a really high level, even in ATP Cup.  And today, as well.  Obviously there was games where I had a lot of loose mistakes and missing more today.  But I honestly feel like my game is there, and I'm playing well.
 In the end it's a tennis match.  I lost today, but I'm happy with the way things are going in practice, with the way I'm improving.  And, you know, I just hope to keep going in this direction.
 Q. What did you notice different in the game of Felix compared to the last time that you faced him?
 DENIS SHAPOVALOV:   Well, it's a different match, so obviously, you know, we played, what, two years ago now or a year -- I don't know.  It was a long time.  So of course, you know, I think he was serving really good today, moving really well.
 He was putting a lot of returns in the court so overall he was just playing really solid.  It was really impressive to see, but, you know, I expected it.  He's been in great form, great shape, you know, playing great matches.  Yeah, for me it was no surprise.
 Yeah, I mean, it's good to see him, you know, also playing this well.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT