ROLEX PARIS MASTERS
November 1, 2019
Denis Shapovalov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
D. SHAPOVALOV/G. Monfils   
6-2, 6-2   
(Mixed Zone Interview)   
 Q.  Maybe you don't know, but you make story of Italian tennis. Because it was since 42 years that an Italian player didn't go to Masters.  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Oh, really? Yeah, of course.   
 Q.  So Berrettini thanks to you.  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Yeah, I mean, he better give me a bottle of wine or something or a small gift. (Laughing.)   
But, I mean, I'm really happy for Matteo and sad for Gaël. They're both unbelievable players, unbelievable people. So it's both happy and sad.   
But at the end of the day, it's nothing I can do. You know, I'm going on the court, I tried my best, and I was able to play really good tennis.   
So, yeah, big congrats to Matteo for making it.   
 Q.  What do you think made the difference today?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Honestly, I think from the first ball I was trying to be aggressive, just dictate to him, and everything was kind of working for me today.   
I felt like I was -- you know, any shot I was going for, I was trying to make, it was landing for me. So it was one of those days where I couldn't ask much more for me.   
 Q.  You get a big challenge tomorrow whoever wins today.  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Yeah, definitely. I've beaten both of them before, but they're unbelievable players, and they've beaten me as well.   
It's going to be a tough match. They've been having an amazing week, and they're both playing some really good tennis. So hopefully we can have an exciting match.   
 Q.  Do you think you're playing now your best tennis ever?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: I don't know about that, but definitely playing some really good tennis. It's tough to judge best tennis or not best tennis, but it was pretty damn good today.   
 Q.  You seem very confident.  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Yeah, honestly I'm just enjoying myself the last couple weeks of the year.   
I feel like with that title with Stockholm, it kind of gave me a sense of calmness, relief. And I've just been able to enjoy the last couple weeks of the season and, because of that, I feel like I've been able to play really well.   
 Q.  You did a lot of the return with your forehand, a bit like Wawrinka, more than last year, I think.  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Yeah.   
 Q.  Is this something new you have established with Youzhny?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: I don't know if off the forehand it was with Mischa. It was kind of, you know, more of my decision to just kind of try to get a couple more returns back.   
But, of course, on the backhand side, me and Mischa worked on blocking it a lot more to kind of start the point, and it's a tricky shot for the opponents.   
I feel like it was working for me in Chengdu in one of my matches, and then from then I just kind of stayed with it, and I feel like it's a really big improvement in my game.   
 Q.  How is your French doing?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Comme ci, comma ca.   
 Q.  Next time in French?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Je vais essayer.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT