BNP PARIBAS OPEN
March 13, 2019
Denis Shapovalov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
H. HURKACZ/D. Shapovalov   
7-6, 2-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  If you could change something, what would you change about that match?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: A lot of things.  Yeah, I just don't think I played well today.  I played a little bit tight, a little bit stupid.  Just wasn't able to convert when I wanted to.  So just one of those days.   
 Q.  You had that big point at 4-All in the first set...  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Yeah, dumped the volley.   
 Q.  Could have...  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: For sure.  Like I said, bad match for me today.  Really wasn't feeling good on the court.  You know, I did everything I could.  I fought every point.  Happy I almost turned the match around, but it's tough to win with a C game.   
 Q.  How impressed were you with him?  He seemed to be hanging in the rallies pretty well.  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Yeah, he was playing really well.  It was tough to get something by him today.  I think he had a little bit of fall late in the second set, you know, and I was trying to take advantage.   
But then it was a long toilet break.  Started the set bad, and it just kind of rolled after that.  Had a couple of chances to get back in and didn't play well those points.  You know, the rest is just history.   
 Q.  What happened to Storm?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Storm?  He's there.  I think he was there.  I'm not sure.  Maybe -- I don't know.  I don't pay attention.  He's somewhere there.   
 Q.  A lot of people thought you were going to win the match.  It's disappointing for you and a lot of people were surprised.  Obviously he's a good player.  Disappointing obviously, this being a big tournament.  Everybody likes to do well here.  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Yeah, but I -- look, I could have lost second round to Steve.  You know, everyone is a good player.  Anyone can beat anyone on any day.   
So it's definitely a disappointing loss.  I feel if I did play my full game today, I could have won.  Just looking, you know, at the score and stuff, and honestly, I had so many chances that I just didn't convert.   
But like I said, he played really well.  He served well.  Solid from the back.  So credits to him.  He's really improved.  He's a really hard worker.  It's great to see him doing well.   
Like I said, anyone can beat any player on any day.   
 Q.  You have a week off now.  What's the plan?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: I haven't thought that far ahead.  I just want to relax now, man.  Jump in the hot tub.  Yeah, I don't know.  Probably go to Miami tomorrow and just start preparing.   
Two big tournaments, so I don't want to take much time off.  Just gonna kind of let this one go a little bit, you know, move on from it.  Just focus on the following week.   
 Q.  On a lighter note, what was the reaction to the rap?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: I don't know.  Good, bad, I don't know?   
Yeah, no comment on that.   
 Q.  How familiar were you with him?  Was there any element of surprise in how well he played?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: No.  I mean, I'm always expecting a battle.  I know his potential.  We have practiced a bunch of times.  I know how well he can play.   
He brought his game today.  You know, he did everything he could, and, you know, I mean, credits to him.  You know, when you come out swinging like that, making a bunch of balls, playing big on the big points, it's too good.   
But like I said, it's one of those days where I just wasn't able to convert and play my best tennis.   
A little bit frustrated, a little bit unfortunate.  I'm just going to move past it.  I think I'm headed in the right direction.  I had a good week, played some pretty good tennis.  Obviously today was the one off day, but on the whole, it's been a good week.   
 Q.  Any reaction to Bianca living 6-love, 6-1 against Muguruza?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Yeah, that's pretty crazy.  I saw that score actually on a changeover in my match.  I'm, like, No way.  I know she's good, but 0-1, she destroyed her.   
I'm happy for her.  I just saw her there.  Congratulated her.  It's amazing to see her doing so well.  We grew up together.  We started from the bottom together.  So it's amazing to see her doing so well.  She's a really great person, as well.   
That always helps to, you know, have a couple more people on your side.   
 Q.  Did you have a chance to watch the match between Hurkacz and Nishikori and did you notice any weaknesses in Hurkacz's game?  How did you prepare for his game today?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: Yeah, I definitely had a plan going into today's match.  I watched a couple of his games, but I just wasn't able to execute today.  I felt pretty off on my forehand and pretty off my serve.   
When you get into a match and you're not feeling so good, it's about adapting.  I think I did everything I could to kind of try to make a battle out of it and try to turn the match around.   
Credits to him.  He did stay strong.  You know, in the third set he stepped on it when he saw me miss a couple of balls.  He made sure to make me play and stayed strong.  After that, he served pretty well.  Yeah, it was a good match for him.   
 Q.  Did he surprise you with anything today or not necessarily?  
DENIS SHAPOVALOV: No.  I mean, I knew he's a good player.  He's got a big serve.  He saw from the back.  Not a shocker.  I mean, I know his potential.  I know how good he can play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT