MUTUA MADRID OPEN
May 12, 2018
Denis Shapovalov
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. ZVEREV/D. Shapovalov
6-4, 6-1
(Mixed Zone)
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Talk about the second set.
DENNIS SHAPOVALOV: I think he picked up his level.  My concentration just didn't feel like it was there today.  I'm not sure if it was the long wait for the match or just a tough week, tough match with Kyle.  I didn't feel completely out there.
I'm not taking anything away from him.  He's playing great, unbelievable tennis.  All the best to him.  If he keeps going like this, soon enough he's going to be winning Grand Slams.
Q. A learning process, having to wait, is that something you're going to deal better with in the future?
DENNIS SHAPOVALOV: Definitely.  It's another learning experience for me.  I don't make semifinals of these big tournaments every week.  It's a strange feeling for me.  Actually I'm really happy with how my body has held up throughout the week.
But like I said, I didn't feel like I was mentally all there today.  So it's a little bit frustrating.  But I'm not going to get too hard on myself.  I've had a great week.  Hopefully I can play well in Rome.
Q. Despite the disappointment, you must be taking loads of positives from this week.
DENNIS SHAPOVALOV: Definitely.  It's been an amazing week.  Obviously it's tough to feel positive after a loss always.  Yeah, it's been a tremendous week.  Getting my first win on the ATP Tour on clay here, yeah, making semifinals of such a big tournament, I could never imagine to do so.
I'm very happy.  It's been a huge, huge confidence booster for me.
Q. You're going to Rome next week.  It never stops.
DENNIS SHAPOVALOV: No, no, I'm excited.  After a result like this, you want to keep playing.  You want to go out there and try to do it again.
I have a tough draw next week.  Actually I haven't looked at it too much.  But I know there's some tough players in my quarter.  It's not going to be easy.  I'm excited for what's to come.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT