MLB WORLD SERIES: PHILLIES v YANKEES
November 2, 2009
Cliff Lee
Chase Utley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







New York Yankees 6
  Philadelphia Phillies 8

 Q. My first question is for Mr. Utley: I just want to find out, your manager was here earlier and he was describing how good of a player you are comparing probably to Mr. Kirby Puckett. I just want to ask you, how much do you prepare mentally? How much of a challenge was it for you coming out here to get the Phillies back into the series like you did today with those home runs? 
 CHASE UTLEY: Well, I think as a team we do a good job of preparing the same way every day, so obviously it's the World Series, it was a do-or-die game. But I try to prepare the same way no matter when you're playing. 

 Q. Chase, what did you hit on those home runs? Can you describe the sequences and all that?
 CHASE UTLEY: First home run was a fastball, first pitch. The second home run was a fastball, as well. 

 Q. Chase, can I just ask you about the home runs? I don't think this is the biggest thing in your mind, but you have now in a single series hit more home runs than anyone, more than Babe Ruth, you've tied Reggie Jackson. What does it mean to do it in that company in a game that you had to win? And Cliff, talk about coming through in a game that you had to win. 
 CHASE UTLEY: Obviously it's great company. At some point, not right now, maybe I'll look back on it and see what kind of special moment it is. But right now our goal is to win two more games. 
 CLIFF LEE: Yeah, any time you go out and give the team a chance to win as a starting pitcher you've got to feel good about it, especially now. Basically our backs were against the wall, a do-or-die situation. To go out there and give the team a chance, the offense scored plenty of runs to make things a little easier on me, and that was all good. But for me I've still got to try to put up zeroes and get deep into the game, and I did that and gave the team a chance. So it was a group effort and we're still fighting. 

 Q. Chase, Shane talked before the game about how important it is to stay loose and still have fun, and it seemed like you guys were having fun around the batting cage before the game. Does that sort of thing carry into the games? Do you feel it's important to have fun even when you're at this stage against the wall?
 CHASE UTLEY: It's always important to have fun. I think it all starts with Charlie and the way he talks to us every single day. His attitude is a fun-loving attitude, and it kind of carries over. 

 Q. Cliff, can you talk about how you felt out there today in terms of your command. And then also, what's your availability do you feel like in a possible Game 7? 
 CLIFF LEE: Yeah, I don't think my command was as good as it has been. It was a little off. It was a game where I had to battle a little bit. Fortunately we scored a lot of runs and made things easier as far as that goes. 
 But yeah, it's a game where I had to battle a little more than I've had to the past few games. But thankfully we scored a lot of runs. Yeah, we won, that's the bottom line. I really couldn't care less how we got it done, just as long as we win and everybody does their part. I'm happy with winning.
 As far as my availability, I'm available. (Laughter). 

 Q. How about in terms of number of pitches? I know Charlie talked about you're scheduled for a bullpen, and he talked a little bit about praying for rain. 
 CLIFF LEE: I don't know, normally my bullpen is not tomorrow but the next day. Obviously Game 7 will be the day after that. But I think I'll be fine. You're going to have to talk to Charlie. I don't know what his plans are. I'll be ready to pitch whenever they want me to. 

 Q. Cliff, you had Charlie basically said he was going to talk to you and see how you felt. But in the odd situation like in 2001 Randy Johnson pitched Game 6 and he was available and closed out Game 7. Is that the kind of thing that you would do? You wouldn't probably start a game on such short rest, would you?
 CLIFF LEE: That's another question for Charlie. I don't know. I'll pitch whenever they want me to pitch. That's about as clear as I can say it. I'm ready whenever. I don't really get that sore, so I'll be ready to pitch whenever they want me to. If it's going to help the team win, I'm in. 

 Q. Sometimes the attention gets really ratcheted up this time of year. Charlie talked the other day about how coming in sometimes you're so locked into your preparation. How much would you prefer to just be able to play baseball and never have to deal with any of the other stuff like this? You don't seem like this is your favorite part of it. 
 CHASE UTLEY: It's not my favorite part. My favorite part is playing the game. But it obviously comes with the territory. You kind of learn how to deal with it as you grow. I'm getting a little bit more used to it. 
 But I'd rather just go out and play, yeah. 

 Q. Cliff, it looked like the mound was a little bit muddy or not in the ideal condition. Chan Ho was having a little problem there. How was it for you? 
 CLIFF LEE: You've always got to deal with the elements. I mean, to me that's an excuse. I try not to get too caught up in that. If my cleats get muddy, I clean them out and keep pitching. I wasn't really too focused on that. I was focused on throwing strikes and staying locked in with the catcher. That's part of the elements, something you've got to deal with. We're all pitching on the same mound, so I try not to get too caught up in that. 

 Q. Considering A-Rod has been hit three times in this series, were you expecting to possibly see some more pitches inside? And were you surprised that everything they threw to you was middle out today? 
 CHASE UTLEY: You know, you try to put a game plan together. My game plan wasn't expecting to get hit. (Laughter). You know, yeah, Alex was hit a few times. We've been throwing him inside, and occasionally that's going to happen. I've been hit a lot over the course of the years. It's just part of the game. 

 Q. Chase, how important was it to answer back in that first inning? And a couple of the guys in the clubhouse said that home run kind of let them know that they were going to be all right tonight. What was the reaction of the guys in the dugout and did you get a sense of that from them? 
 CHASE UTLEY: I felt like they were pretty excited at that point. You know, scoring runs early if you can do it is important. It takes a little pressure off everybody, and Cliff, even though Cliff doesn't seem like he gets rattled too much. Any time you can score early runs, it's beneficial. 

 Q. You have a very low-key disposition, but can you talk about how you've been able to lead by example throughout this World Series for your team? 
 CHASE UTLEY: I don't think we really need to be pointed in the right direction. We all have the same mindset, and we all play the game the right way in my belief. You know, you go out there and you play hard. You give it everything you can and play that game like it's the last. 

 Q. Kind of following up with what you were just talking about, just in terms of having your backs against the wall in an elimination game, how important was it for a guy of your stature, one of the leaders in the clubhouse, to have such a big game and kind of lead by example in this game?
 CHASE UTLEY: I mean, it doesn't really matter who it is. The bottom line is to win the game, however you need to do it, whether it's hitting, pitching, defense. It doesn't really matter who steps up, it's just a matter of when and how. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT