BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 23, 2017
Joel Stalter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How pleased are you with your play today?  
JOEL STALTER: Yeah, I played really well.  Gave myself a lot of opportunities.  Pretty tough out there with the wind.  It was very gusty, so difficult to control the ball and it was getting firmer, as well.  So I'm really pleased with that round.   
 Q.  When the conditions are like that, what part of your game do you really need to step up to get the most out of tricky weather like this?  
JOEL STALTER: Definitely short game.  You're going to miss a few greens, because especially they are pretty small.  You want to hit the fairway to make sure you control the ball, and short game, which chipping needs to be on point.   
 Q.  Making the step up to the main tour from The Challenge Tour, what's the biggest thing that you've taken on board and learnt so far this year?  
JOEL STALTER: Just how to be a professional really.  Just learning the travel, the hardship and being persistent and keep believing in yourself.  I think a lot of it is confidence, as well.   
 Q.  In position trying to win for the first time.  What's the strategy going to be?  
JOEL STALTER: Just keep hitting great shots and making putts and we'll see where I stand on the back nine on Sunday.   
 Q.  How do you feel about that?  
JOEL STALTER: Great.  I played very well.  It was difficult out there with the wind.  It's getting firm, as well.  Greens are a little bumpy at the end.  Really good round.  I'm very happen.   
 Q.  What are the main differences in the first two days in your game?  
JOEL STALTER: I think I hit more fairways today.  So I was able to keep it under control on my second shots and had a few good breaks, a few bad breaks.  I think it evened out today, and I chipped really well the last two days.  Made some good putts, as well.  Good short putts.  Solid rounds.   
 Q.  Not much to be disappointed about, but disappointed not to birdie the ninth?  
JOEL STALTER: Definitely I wanted to birdie that hole.  I hit 3-wood off the tee and I hit it almost too good, so I was too close and I was in between a 2-iron and a 3-wood.   
So I had to take it down, my 3-wood, and I hit a good shot.  It just didn't grab the wind and ended up in a really tough spot.  And I hit a fantastic chip shot and left myself ten feet and didn't hit a great putt and the green kind of took it.  But that's a good finish and stress-free.   
 Q.  You must be really looking forward to the weekend now?  
JOEL STALTER: Yeah, I can't wait.  Keep doing the job here and hitting good shots, making putts, and we'll see where I stand on Sunday.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT