NBA ALL STAR
March 7, 2021
Jaylen Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Jaylen can you just give us your overall experience here, from the 3-Point Contest to the game. What has it been like for you?
 JAYLEN BROWN:   It was fun, man.  That’s what it was about.  It was fun.  First experience, here in the hometown and I couldn’t ask for nothing more.  I had a great time.
 Q. Were there any jitters before the 3-Point Contest and did getting some of those jitters out during the contest help you during the game itself?
 JAYLEN BROWN:   A little bit, for sure. I didn’t get the start I wanted in the 3-Point Contest. I didn’t hear them say “go”. But definitely when I got into the game, I felt more comfortable, for sure.
 Q. The talk going into the game was how different the energy was going to be this weekend compared to other All-Star Games. Did you feel that difference in energy during the actual game?
 JAYLEN BROWN:   To be honest, I felt nothing.  Just playing a game that I love to play.  You just get out there and you just have fun.  You’re on the floor with some of the best players to ever play.  It’s fun for me.  I like that.
 Q. What was it like to be on the same team as some of these great players like LeBron and Steph?
 JAYLEN BROWN:   It was good.  When I got hot there, Steph was the main person who was cheering me on.  And I shot one from the logo and it didn’t go in, but Steph said that he liked it.  So I was like, “Man, I thought I was you for a second,” and he started laughing.  So being able to have back-and-forth dialogues with those guys -- I was talking to LeBron while sitting on the bench, asking him questions. Probably being annoying but learning something.  Trying to pick up some information, some knowledge.
 Q. Do you have bragging rights on Jayson the rest of the season?
 JAYLEN BROWN:   Yeah, we got the win.  We definitely got the win.  He fouled me when he was on me.  We knew how that was going to go. I’ll take the win.  I know we got a nice cash prize too.  I don’t know if that is for charity.  But Jayson fouled me, of course.
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT