NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CELTICS VS. HEAT
September 22, 2020
Jaylen Brown
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. You and Jayson have developed great chemistry with each other.  How have you seen the chemistry develop together over the years?  How much of that is just playing together or is there an aspect of communication and film study together pointing out what to look for?
 JAYLEN BROWN:   I'd probably say maybe a little bit of both.  What's crazy, I think we can still make a lot of leaps in terms of playing with each other, playing off of each other.  I think we still got a long way from being to our peak.
 That's a great compliment, but we still got a lot of work to do.
 Q. Brad Stevens has talked a lot throughout this bubble process of finding your joy in what you are doing.  Obviously a lot of stressful moments throughout all this.  How have you been able to keep accomplishing that?
 JAYLEN BROWN:   Yeah, I guess doing the best you can to develop a good, healthy routine.  Some of the things that I picked up here in the bubble I feel like I'll probably take with me for the rest of my life, being able to develop certain habits and things to help you deal with being in a bubble away from your family in an uncomfortable environment.
 Everybody's different, so everybody had their own adaptation process. Some of the things I’ve picked up here, personally, I’ll carry with me when I leave.
 Q. When people say you've got to be more aggressive or you're not getting enough touches, when do you say to yourself you have to be more aggressive?  How do you let the game come to you and just take that?
 JAYLEN BROWN:   It's tough.  Try to play within the flow for the most part.  Allow the game to kind of come to you.  Sometimes it doesn't.  That's where I get frustrated at times.
 But for me, I realize that just being out on the floor, there's so many different ways I can affect the game with the ball in my hands, without the ball in my hands.  It don't really matter.
 I can assert myself whether the ball come to me or not.  Just being aggressive any time I catch it, being aggressive on defense, being aggressive on rebounding, all that stuff adds up.
 I think maybe it's more of an emphasis on that for me in Game 3.  Going forward it will be more of an emphasis, for sure.
 Q. How easy is it when defense lead to offense?  Getting the steal gets you into the game.  The breakaway.  Seems like a good thing.
 JAYLEN BROWN:   Yeah, it's good for our team as well.  I think being aggressive defensively is going to be the key to the series for us.  That's something we have to continue.
 But defense is what we hang our hat on.  That's something I hang my hat on.  I can take it to another level, and I will.
 Q. What do you think the potential is with the group we saw a little bit in Game 3 with Smart out there with the starters?  You didn't have a chance to use it a lot during the season because of injuries.  Looked like a pretty good glimpse of what that group could be capable of.
 JAYLEN BROWN:   Seems a like a group we might see a little bit more often, especially at the end of games, which has got to be great.  That's what it comes down to. Got to be aggressive, got to rebound with that group, make the right plays.  A lot of good players on the floor all at the same time.
 I believe in that group.
 Q. Last time we spoke about Breonna Taylor, you spoke about a balance for you being in the Playoffs but making sure you're paying attention.  With the decision expected to come down today, what is the balance for you?
 JAYLEN BROWN:   It's tough because it seems like they're gearing up for the decision that I disagree with.  We'll see what the ultimate outcome is I guess later today.
 To be honest, I think that is what is the problem.  I think that's where the disconnect is.  People don't see the issue with the death of Breonna Taylor.  To a lot of people the issue is so evident and so clear.  I don't see how people can miss it.
 That's something that definitely can throw your balance off.  We’re talking about balance, that's something that's going on in the real world that can throw your balance off in terms of you being here and you playing basketball, being in the Playoffs.
 Not only does that directly affect people, a woman of color, et cetera, you can't help but think of people that you're close to that could possibly go and see similar situations, and the outcome will be the same.
 I think there was obvious wrongdoing there.  That's the reason why Kentucky or Louisville banned the no-knock warrant because they know that that isn't okay to just break into somebody's house, bust in, regardless of who you are, not making yourself aware.
 You look at stand-your-ground laws.  I don't see too much of a difference.  If you're a threat, somebody breaking into your place...  When you look at George Zimmerman, he was commended for some of those things, somebody feeling the threat on somebody's property.  Breonna Taylor is looked at as different.
 That's something that can definitely throw your balance off in terms of being in a bubble.  I'm curious to see what the decision, ultimate decision, is.  I would not be surprised.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT