BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 30, 2004
Julio Canani
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Okay, we are joined now by Julio Canani, his third career Breeders' Cup victory, two previous ones in the Breeders' Cup mile, but today he adds dirt to his resume with Sweet Catomime.  Julio, we spoke earlier to the Wygods, knew you were very high on this horse for quite some time, but did you think that she could accomplish what she did today, even given the trouble she had around that final turn? 

JULIO CANANI:  She (inaudible) we went from sixth to first in the blink of an eye.  She is a very (inaudible).

Q.  What was it about her that tipped you off?  She broke her grading in the Grade 1 stakes.  That's not a typical trainer move.  What was it about her development at that point that caused you to be that aggressive with her?

JULIO CANANI:  Well, she is big.  She doesn't look like a 2-year old.  She is like a 4-year old.  First time out she broke slow on everything, but for the (inaudible) she wants more distance. 

Q.  Julio, we had slight technical difficulties upstairs.  They couldn't hear your answer about the trouble in the press box.  How concerned were you?  Nakatani had a lot of horse underneath him, and then the trouble started to begin.  What was going through your mind?  Did you think everything was going to go down the drain? 

JULIO CANANI:  Everything happened so fast, and then she moved to the outside.  It's a chance she can get in again.  Being so big, it was a concern that she can (inaudible) but she is very talented. 

Q.  Back when the juvenile fillies was run, there was moisture in the track.  She had a license to (inaudible) was that a concern or an added unknown going in?

JULIO CANANI:  Santa Anita, she galloped too many legs.  You guys say one of three (inaudible) very, very slow, you know, but she (inaudible).  Then she come back and -- 50-2 before she (inaudible) three course (inaudible).  She can run.  There is no doubt that, she can run races.  People ask you, are you sure, but she is very talented, very, very talented.

Q.  Does she excite you as much as any dirt horse you have ever trained, at least in the US?

JULIO CANANI:  Well, there was another filly I trained for the same owner last year.  Her name was Silent Sighs.  Before she would run, she would train like a super filly, you know.  But this filly -- that filly was precocious.  She is really not.  This filly getting bit by another filly named Compose, if this filly would have run separately, it would be 10-1, (inaudible) it would be 2-1.  But going long I knew that this filly (inaudible) because of the size.  She has a great (inaudible).

Q.  I asked the Wygods earlier, and they said they were going to keep an open mind.  She shows no distance limitations in recent years, real strong looking 2-year-old fillies, their connections at least allow themselves to think about the Kentucky Derby, other than the Kentucky Oaks.  Is this still an open question in your mind at least? 

JULIO CANANI:  Well, one can hope.  I don't know.  I really believe -- well, she won today.  That race, I mean, I don't know, if it don't rain, the track is fine, but when it rains on the track -- I mean, I don't know.  But, you know, today -- last night I was talking to my wife, I said, "If the filly races, a million dollars on the colts and a million and a half," and I say (inaudible), "What will you do now with the colts?"  She said (inaudible) the colts and geldings.  So why -- you can run in the Kentucky Derby, you cannot run in the juvenile fillies, why not, if one race is 8 courses and the other one is 14.

Q.  So someone put a gun to your head and said, "We give you $500,000 potential more" --

JULIO CANANI:  I would run it with a colt today.  I told them before she won -- when they are running, you know (inaudible) not that I am crazy.  Maybe three colts in the whole country that would qualify as a contender.  Maybe three or four, right? 

Q.  Any questions in the room for Julio? 

JULIO CANANI:  That makes no sense, huh? 

Q.  What do you think, Julio, what do you anticipate doing with her in the next month or two? 

JULIO CANANI:  Myself, just back home a little bit.  She has -- this is her fourth race.  She is a big filly.  She is doing a lot of growing, a lot of growing.  Go home a little bit, you know, wait for next year.  A lot of training. 

Q.  All right.  Well, Julio Canani, congratulations  on Sweet Catomime and a great job by you and look forward to seeing more of this filly next year. 

JULIO CANANI:  I hope so. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT