US OPEN
September 3, 2019
Qiang Wang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. WILLIAMS/Q. Wang   
6-1, 6-0   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  First time that you played her. Obviously a very big occasion. How did you feel walking out onto the court? And from the tennis side, how did you feel playing against her?  
QIANG WANG: Yes, the biggest court in the world. It's a little bit tight for me. Against Serena, she do lot of pressure to me. So is not easy to play against her.   
 Q.  From talking with Thomas before the match, the tactics and game plan that you wanted to play against her, what did you want to try to do?  
QIANG WANG: Try to stay with her, play more rallies, yeah.   
 Q.  Were you surprised, because it's the first time you've been across the net from her, by what she was doing tonight?  
QIANG WANG: Yes. I think she's really great player. Yeah, she just great. I don't know what to say.   
 Q.  What surprised you the most?  
QIANG WANG: Power.   
 Q.  Off of the baseline or the serve?  
QIANG WANG: Everything (smiling).   
 Q.  Had you ever faced that kind of power before? Beyond the tactics, what does it feel like in terms of the absorption on your racquet?  
QIANG WANG: The power, like, I cannot handle it. Just too much for me.   
 Q.  What do you take away from that? What do you do next?  
QIANG WANG: Build my muscle, be powerful. Just more than now I think, yes.   
 Q.  More strength training, weight training?  
QIANG WANG: Yes. Everything, I think I need do more.   
 Q.  How happy were you with how you physically held up over the tournament because of the back injury? Are you looking forward to doing more to get stronger before going back home and playing in Asia?  
QIANG WANG: I will take few days off and then start again, yes. More fitness, yes.   
 Q.  More fitness?  
QIANG WANG: Yes.   
 Q.  Can you reflect or think back about the two weeks here, a pretty good two weeks for you?  
QIANG WANG: Yeah, I think I did really good work in two weeks. Doesn't matter the last match. I think it's very positive for me. I just talk to my coach. We are very positive to the future, yes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT