HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
November 4, 2018
Qiang Wang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. BARTY/Q. Wang   
6-3, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  We could see is that during your first game, you were reacting a little bit slow.  Is that because of your stamina?  How's your physic doing?  
QIANG WANG: I'm physically well.  I'm doing well.   
 Q.  Actually we could say that it's a surprise and also actually it's your extra workload for these two matches.  Definitely your ranking will be increasing and you will get more prizes.  After these two matches, could you have a look back on these two matches and  how well you are prepared?  
QIANG WANG: Well, I'm not prepared.  People are always saying that opportunities are for people who are prepared, but I'm not prepared this time.  I was just called upon yesterday and I won yesterday.  I was very happy.  Today, I lost.  I'm not that happy.  However, I'm leaving today so I can go on my vacation finally.   
 Q.  So we could see that in May you were ranked at 91, but this is at the end of the season.  You have been upgraded to top 20.  Do you see this as kind of uncertainty becomes certainty or more like a fantasy?  
QIANG WANG: Well, starting from last year, I already started playing against some top 20 players.  At that time, I knew I was capable of reaching where I am today.  Unfortunately during the first half of the year, there was pressure.  For all kinds of reasons, I didn't reach my goal back then.  But I did pretty well during the second half all the way up to the finals today.  I think all of these have been a great experience for me and I've gained quite good progress.  For my current ranking, just like what I said before, it's what I have done step by step and it's all reaching a new high because of what I have done in the past.   
 Q.  Talking about the ranking, a lot of players would say it's two different things when you come up to top 20  and you can stay in top 20.  What kind of qualities do you think can keep players in top 20?  
QIANG WANG: I think, first of all, you need to have strong stamina to go against your opponents.  And second of all, you should have a strong mind so that you should believe in yourself to say that I can do it no matter if I'm winning or losing.  I think that's pretty much the two qualities.   
 Q.  You have been talking about your main goal for next year, you're hoping to get to the finals next year.  Do you think the confidence of getting that goal is because of your ranking or climbing up of the ranking or because you're playing against strong opponents over the years?  
QIANG WANG: I think it comes from both.  I should do better both on court and off court.  During the second half of the year, all these things have boosted my confidence.   
 Q.  We can see that your name has been increasingly connected with names liked Na Li, Jie Zheng, and Shuai Peng, all the top players who can get into the semifinals of Grand Slams.  Do you think that kind of comparison can make you feel like you're parallel to those people, that you're very confident or you're not so confident?  
QIANG WANG: I think definitely Grand Slams are my goal and getting to semifinals of Grand Slam is something great.  I haven't reached there yet.  That's my goal and I definitely will work my way up there.  I know my goal and I'll probably be reaching there soon.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT