HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 30, 2018
Qiang Wang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








D. KASATKINA/Q. Wang
6-1, 2-6, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. The coach of Kasatkina used to mention that she is actually the 'Great Wall of Russia.'  You just experienced this three-setter with her.  How do you feel toward her competition, especially on her defense?
QIANG WANG: Definitely she is a very strong competitor.  I feel I have experienced very strong changes and varieties from her, including her top spin, her slice, and sometimes she would attack you with very high speed.  So I could feel both her defense and her variety.
Q. First of all, we could see that actually for the second set, actually you got to 6-2 in the second set.  You had this conversion of the scores.  How did you manage to do that?
QIANG WANG: Actually, for the whole match today, for the first one, actually I couldn't find very good pace for the first set.
When I think about my past two weeks preparation prior to this tournament, actually for the first week, I was having a break.  During the same time, I was actually treating my leg because I had injuries.  The second week I was having some training.
So I'm not really familiar with this match yet, that's why I adjusted myself on the second set.
Q. What about the third set?
QIANG WANG: I don't think I remember.  Actually for specifics, you can actually check the videos maybe.
Q. So you actually broke the points later, right?
QIANG WANG: Well, yeah, but I don't even remember when.  I think my coach just told me that I should actually get more points.  I don't really recall too many.
Q. During the last time for the last press conference, you mentioned that it's been two weeks in between the last match and this one and you were concerned to lose momentum.  But after you lose this one today, would you be concerned on the same issue?
QIANG WANG: For the first set, I was very concerned.  And the second one, I think all I could do -- I wanted to win, so I did.
The third one, for the third set, actually I had to cope with a lot of changes with my opponent, so that put a lot of pressure on my forehand performance.
I hope I can get better performance and I'll do my best.
Q. Well, during today's performance, actually it was very tough and we could see that.  One set you got 1-7 [sic], and then later on you tried to catch up to have 7-1 [sic].  Also you later tried to have some breakpoints and you kind of recovered a little bit.  Based on your own personality and your philosophy of tennis, do you think this match brings you more setbacks or boosts your confidence?
QIANG WANG: When I just finished this match, I was very frustrated.  But during the match, I was also trying my best to gain more points.  After I finished this one, I think it took me about ten minutes to cool down and feel better.
But indeed during the past week, I didn't have time to prepare for this game.  But now I don't think I feel any worse.  Especially I'm competing with the top 10 players, so I've been feeling good enough to have this performance.  Right now I think I'm feeling well.
Q. In the final set in particular of the 12 games played, only three went with the server.  There were nine breaks of serve.  Why do think that was?  Was it nerves or fatigue?
QIANG WANG: Well, I think it's mainly in terms of how I feel towards the game.  It's been two weeks that I haven't been on the court, so I didn't really know how to catch the points on the critical ones.
So I wasn't really clear how to get it, especially when I had to choose between attacking myself or playing safe.  That's the part I don't think I did very well.
Q. Well, even though you've lost this match, you still have the opportunity tomorrow to go against Madison Keys.  But the other problem is if you lose the match tomorrow, then you won't proceed further.  At this moment, how do you feel?
QIANG WANG: I feel great.  I think today, even though I lose this game, I still have an opportunity tomorrow.  But if I lose tomorrow, then definitely I have to go home.
But on the other hand, I think that by having this opportunity to compete with top 20 elite in the world, it's a great honor.  Whatever the result will turn out to be, I still can feel I learn a lot and I can also keep practicing myself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT