CHINA OPEN
October 6, 2015
Qiang Wang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR: Questions in Chinese, please. 

Q. You did very well in the first set, 5‑3. You had your chances. What happened? Did you lose your rhythm or your opponent put a lot of pressure on you? 
QIANG WANG: I've been adjusting my serve. In the first match, I was struggling with my serve. 
In the first set, I was up 5‑3. I was only able to hold one game and there were breaks in all the other games. 
After she won the first set, in terms of confidence level, I think she was better than me. After I lost the first set, I lost some confidence. She was better on return of serve. 

Q. After 5‑3 you talked with your coach. I'm sure you did some preparation for this match. Did you actually implement your strategy? Anything you want to improve upon? 
QIANG WANG: The one thing I didn't prepare well was my serve. There are a lot of big issues. If I could have served better in the first set, it would probably not be 5‑3, I could have won the first set faster than that. 
My coach said I did very well when he came to talk to me in the first set. 

Q. Was it a mental reason that you didn't play very well in the second set? Did you work on any mental things?
QIANG WANG: In the second set, I was not particularly bad compared to previous matches. It was more about the confidence level. I was 5‑3 up in the first set, and I lost some points because of double‑faults. She was playing much better in the second set than in the first set and was able to beat me. 

Q. In the US Open and previous years when you come up against top players, you always had a chance, but you couldn't take advantage of the key points. Have you ever talked to your coach about how to take advantage of the key points and moments?
QIANG WANG: This is something that I need time to work on. I know how to play tennis, but we're probably not so sure about how to play high‑level matches. The top players know how to play a match, how that take advantage of key moments. They're more mature in this aspect, and this is something we've been working on. 

Q. What were your goals at the beginning of the year?
QIANG WANG: At the beginning of the year, I told myself to let myself adapt to the WTA Tour. I've been on the ITF circuit for many years. This is my first opportunity to be on the WTA Tour. Even though they're all tennis matches, I still need to learn to adapt to a lot of things. 

Q. What have you learned?
QIANG WANG: In the China Open I felt a lot of confidence. The victory of the first match, the competition with Wozniacki in the first set, it was a boost to my confidence. I was able to come up against top‑50 players, top‑20 players, and play very well in these matches. 

Q. You mentioned you were adjusting to your toss. After so many years, why have you changed your toss? 
QIANG WANG: My coach thinks that I can serve very well, but I couldn't produce a lot of aces. I'm trying to toss a bit more in front of me. 
I did well in practice, but in matches I felt more tight, and the toss wasn't really going my way. I wasn't really in good control of it. 

Q. You did receive some guidance from your coach in this match. There's a lot of controversy regarding coaching during the match. Some people think it's good, and some people might think a coach might disrupt an athlete's rhythm. What are your feelings on being coached during a match?
QIANG WANG: It depends on different people. If you need your coach, it is very necessary. It's all controlled by the athlete. If you don't need the coach, you just don't ask for him to come in. 

Q. You're on the WTA Tour, which is a little bit different from what you expected. What are the specific differences?
QIANG WANG: The players are higher ranked. They're top 100, top 50. They're more flexible. When they are behind, they're able to be flexible and change their tactics. This is something I lack. 
In ITF matches, those players were less capable of dealing with challenging situations, and I could easily win the matches. But on the WTA Tour, winning each match takes a lot of effort. 

Q. Caroline is very good at defense. In your preparation, what did you plan for?
QIANG WANG: Defense is always my advantage, and I wasn't very good at being aggressive. My coach actually asked me to be more aggressive in this match. I'm trying to go more to the net. I was going more for defense and trying to take the chance to attack. 

Q. In previous years you were playing tennis with family support. Now you're working with the national team, provincial team. People have different styles of development. Do you think this kind of model is more suitable for you?
QIANG WANG: I am getting support from the Tianjin team and the national team. I would like to select my own tournaments, the tournaments I would like to go to. But I'm grateful for their support. This is good as long as it's positive for me. 

Q. Sharapova said when she started playing on the WTA Tour, she was here for playing matches, not making friends. A lot of players are making friends on the WTA Tour. How do you deal with the personal relationships? Do you have any close friends with other players? 
QIANG WANG: I was a very introverted person. I didn't really socialize with other players, even Chinese players. For now I'm feeling more relaxed, more open‑minded with Chinese players. I will make conversations with other players. 
I like who I am right now. When my English level improves a bit, I will try my best to make more friends. 

Q. The Asian season is almost over. What are your expectations and goals for next year?
QIANG WANG: I would like to qualify for the Olympics. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT