U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2014
Larry Laoretti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. First of all, Happy Birthday.LARRY LAORETTI: Thank you.Q. Tough one out there today?LARRY LAORETTI: It's tough every day at my age (laughter).Q. So you ended up finishing through 12?LARRY LAORETTI: Yeah, I hit a shot -- I thought it was a pretty good shot and the guy said it went in the water someplace.  We never found the ball.  I had to walk back.  I don't want to walk backwards.  I want to look forward.  I didn't finish out. I finished the rest of the holes with the guys.  I didn't want to leave them stranded.Q. What's the reason you came out and played in this year's Senior Open?  You hadn't been on the Champions Tour in several years.LARRY LAORETTI: Well, couple reasons.  One, I represent the Fox Club which is in Palm City.  Peter Callaghan and Owen O'Connell who operate and run the golf course said to me, Why don't you go.  Donnie Weeks is a member here.  He's a member of my club.  He said, listen, I'll get you a ticket.  You come out and stay with me.  I'll caddy for you and I'll feed you. How could I turn that down?  I think this is my last go.  It's just too hard.  I'm not competitive.  I don't play any tournaments at home.  I just play with the guys. It's very difficult for me.  I'm surprised I was able to walk 36 holes.  It's good, a lot of fun.  Great golf course here.  My hat is off to Everett and rest of the boys that have this place here.  It's absolutely magnificent, but it's just too hard for me.Q. Dave Eichelberger?LARRY LAORETTI: Yeah, he won in '99.  I won in '92.  He's a youngster.  He said, You have to come and play next year.  I said, I don't think so. Dave, God bless him.  He's still at it.  He's pretty good.Q. You're pretty sure this will be your finale?LARRY LAORETTI: I wouldn't say definite, but it doesn't look good for the future.Q. Did you feel good about completing 36 holes when you got here?  I know the heat, obviously you knew that was going to be a factor.LARRY LAORETTI: I thought I could finish.  I was trying to shoot my age.  I guess if I quit on 12 I could have done it. But it was a lot of fun.  I enjoyed the guys.  I enjoyed seeing all the guys around here.  I just want to thank Oak Tree.  They have done a magnificent job.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT