U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 28, 2000
Larry Laoretti
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








LARRY LAORETTI: No, it doesn't really. All I can tell you is I'm getting older.

LARRY LAORETTI: Unfortunate, isn't it? Better than the alternative.

LARRY LAORETTI: I think you just brought it up. My wife running across the green when I
played that putt on the 18th hole last time, that is probably what I remember more about
the tournament than anything.

Q. Has the course changed in your eyes over the eight years?

LARRY LAORETTI: So far, I've only played nine holes. So I am going out, playing the
rest today. No, it seems pretty much about the same, I think. I don't see anything new. I
think on the 8th hole, they extended the tee back about 20 yards, but that is the only
changes that I have noticed so far.

Q. What are your chances, do you think, of recapturing the magic that you had in 1992?

LARRY LAORETTI: You never know. I haven't been playing at all. I am like semi-retired,
I probably played three events so far this year. So it very difficult to compete with
these great players just coming out and playing once every month. I just -- first thing I
am going to look for is trying to make the cut, then go from there. You never know,
though. I am driving the ball pretty good. I hurt my arm a couple of weeks ago. Trevino
helped me out. I was going to withdraw from San Antonio Friday morning, and he come over,
said: "What is the matter?" I told him I hurt my upper forearm here bowling with
my son. And I couldn't pick the club up. He said: "Just stand very closed with your
stance and bring the club way to the inside and try to hit it." I did, but I no idea
where the ball was going. I shot 75, 75, 77. So it wasn't good, but at least I was able to
finish playing.

Q. Could you describe the feelings as you drove up the driveway yesterday?

LARRY LAORETTI: I guess it is a feeling like those guys say when they go in the
Masters, driving up Magnolia Drive. It was very nice - signed a lot of autographs and
stuff. Very nice coming back. And then I played nine holes. They introduced me on the
first tee. That was like -- of course, everybody is standing anyhow. It is like a standing
ovation. It was fantastic.

Q. Do you find yourself getting lot of attention? Is anybody trying to stop you and --

LARRY LAORETTI: First night I came in town, I came in Sunday night, because I did an
outing over Gary -- Jerry Sandusky place, the Penn State. I did an outing over there on
Friday and Saturday. So drove in Sunday night, and it was kind of late and I didn't want
to cook or anything, so just jumped -- USGA was kind enough to give me my car early. I
went over to this restaurant, Peppercorn right down the street. And I go in, order a
drink, and asked them about a menu. He said -- looked at me: "Are you staying in the
same place you stayed eight years ago?" I have never been in that place myself. That
was the first time I have went in there. I said: "Yeah. You know who I am?" He
says: "You are Larry Laoretti." Then the whole bar - I had more drinks than I
could handle. It was a nice feeling.

Q. Put into perspective what winning this has done for your career in terms of playing
golf.

LARRY LAORETTI: It gave me a very nice financial retirement program. It really has.
Helped me out immensely. Still doing these corporate outings. I just did about three, four
in a row. Did one in Chicago; next day, went to Alaska. I came back and did the one in
Penn State last week; and of course, I still have a contract with Tobacco Company,
Consolidated, and they send me to different places do speeches and stuff. I think without
-- if you win a tournament in your lifetime, the one probably most important is the U.S.
Open or the U.S. Senior Open. It gives you more knowledge -- that tournament is going to
run forever. You win a tournament, say in Grand Rapids two years from now, they will
probably disband that tournament. So I think it is important if you are going to win one,
the USGA or the U.S. Open is the one to win.

Q. Describe for us what your life is like these days. What do you do? And tell us maybe
some of the elements, things that have handicapped you over the last couple years?

LARRY LAORETTI: Well, basically what I am doing now is I got involved with a fellow by
the name of Al Chandler down in Florida. Al played the SENIOR TOUR here back when they
first started in the '80s; along with Tony Jacklin who -- (inaudible) mini-tour for Senior
players, that are not either coming off like myself or some guys that want to try to work
on their game to get ready to try to qualify for next year. It is called the Tony Jacklin
2000 SENIOR TOUR. We got 13 tournaments in a row. As a matter of fact, the first one
starts this morning. And unfortunately, I am here -- I'd rather be here, but I'd also like
to be there. So it's our kick-off tournament. We got 13 in a row. They all are within the
immediately vicinity of Stuart and Port St. Lucie. We took a shot and tried -- we got 12
guys put up $10,000, local people, to get us kicked off and we are away and going. It
looks like we are going to be quite successful. We got over 120 guys signed up and
hopefully -- of 120 signed up, that doesn't mean 120 are going to play every week. But at
least we got a nucleus to draw from, so hopefully we will have 75 or 80 guys. The
tournaments winner will probably get 7, 8,000 dollars. We will probably pay down to about
40 spots, but the whole key in the past is what happened, I am sure many of you read about
it, all the senior mini-tour events that happened, guys would collect the money and never
pay-off. So there has been a lot of disenchantment with the players and they are looking
for some place -- Tony Jacklin and I basically guaranteed the money if they abscond with
the money, Tony Jacklin and I see that they get paid for that one tournament anyhow.
Hopefully we are going to be successful. What I do the rest of the time - been home and I
have been practicing cleaning the house, taking care of outside and just fooling around,
in general; nothing in particular. Doing those outings when I get invited to go.

Q. How many outings do you do?

LARRY LAORETTI: Probably do 15 to 20 this year. I a got couple more in line now.
Definitely in the Grand Rapids tournament which is, I think, in the first part of
September and -- not 100% sure yet, I can't tell exactly if I am in the Long Island
tournament, Meadowbrook this year, but it looks pretty good that I might get a sponsor
exemption.

Q. Did you sell the motor home?

LARRY LAORETTI: I sold one and my wife is in bicycle races, she just set the state
record in Florida for speed, 40 kilometers. She wanted to get a smaller one because I was
going to be done playing and not using it. So I got a smaller one which is 30 foot, and
she said that that is too big so now I have got that one and I have used it a few times
that I have been out. But, you know, anybody that wants to buy it, it is for sale. I will
ship it out.

Q. Are you discouraged at all that you are coming in here not having played a lot and
obviously you are a big center of attention or one of the centers of attention this week,
does that affect you in any way getting ready for this tournament?

LARRY LAORETTI: Never been discouraged a day in my life. I am happier than a pig in you
know what. I am just happy to be here and I have never got discouraged even when I was
playing bad. You don't feel good about it, but I never got discouraged.

Q. Ever find yourself reminiscing about that week or just the magic of that week and/or
once it is over, do you sort of just let it go and move on?

LARRY LAORETTI: Kind of -- you know, it is funny, I don't know who sent -- the USGA
sent me a tape they had put together and I don't think it was five years after the first
time I ever saw the tape or the play, some hole-by-hole play stuff like that. And
Whittaker opened up and said, Larry "LorettO." I was -- I said, geez, I should
have shut this thing off right now. But it was very nicely done, but no. 

Q. What went through your mind when you saw the tape when you saw what you were doing?

LARRY LAORETTI: I don't know, it was just: Geez, I can't believe I hit it that good. I
sat down, had a good look -- I should be watching that tape now to find out how I hit it
so straight. The last two rounds I only made one bogey which was No. 11, I think I
3-putted. The last day I didn't miss a green except 18 which was about a foot off the
green and I was lucky enough to make that next one. I just had an unbelievable week of
ball-striking. Prior to that I was playing pretty good and I knew I had a pretty good
chance because I was driving the ball good. In the Open, that is the whole key, driving
the golf ball.

Q. People would say you only had that one week. Would you rather have won five or six
tournaments or --

LARRY LAORETTI: Somebody asked me that about two weeks ago. I said, I would never give
up that one U.S. Open because like I said, those four, five tournaments, they would be off
the map in a few years but this U.S. Open will be going for a long, long time.

LARRY LAORETTI: I will bring you a truckload if I win. Everybody will have a box. I
will have them shipped to you. If I win this tournament, I think I am going to be just
like Mr. Jones, retired, hang it up, and say: Where am I going from here? That would be a
great feeling, an opportunity to quit.

Q. In the interviews some of the rookie golfers, Watson and Kite were concerned about
the greens here, never played the course before. How are these greens?

LARRY LAORETTI: Just the nine holes that I played, they were terrific. They are quite
undulated. Again, the key is naturally driving the ball in the fairway and after that,
negotiating the greens. But I think I got through that maybe with one -- maybe one 3-putt
for the week so, that is another big key. But the greens are -- I mean, they are very
receptive, but I think they are a little bit softer right now. Maybe it is because of all
the rain you had. I don't know whether or not it is going to dry out. Seems to me that in
1992 they were a little bit firmer than they are today. You may see some lower scores this
year. Guys come to me and said: How did you ever shoot the under par? I think the scores
will be lower. If the conditions stay the same; if you don't get extreme wind, or if it
stays like it has for the last two, three days, I think you will see some good scores.

LARRY LAORETTI: Thank you very much. Nice being here. I hope to see you Sunday night.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT