RR DONNELLEY LPGA FOUNDERS CUP
March 16, 2012
Karin Sjodin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   First off, a great day today.   Now 7‑under par for the tournament.   Can you just take me through the round today and what was working well for you?  
KARIN SJODIN:   Sure, actually.   I started making a few birdie putts, and I would typically say I hit it better yesterday.   I guess that's the way it is.   But made some crucial putts here and there and then made some birdies in the end.  
   
 Q.   On the Back 9 seems when you really got rolling.   Was there anything that got you going or when you felt things started to really ‑‑  
KARIN SJODIN:   Just the first few holes I wasn't hitting it very well but then the last probably 15 or so I thought I was hitting it good.   So I guess finally something came out of it.  
   
 Q.   Yesterday Yani shot 29 on the Back 9 and really got rolling.   Is the back playing easier than the front or is there something that can get you going a little bit?  
KARIN SJODIN:   I don't know.   I think both of them had kind of two really reachable par‑5s and two quasi reachable ones, but I don't know if it's got some shorter shots, but in my mind I think they played pretty equal.  
   
 Q.   For you, coming into this week, how are you feeling about your game and did you see kind of being able to put together two rounds like these two start off the week?  
KARIN SJODIN:   I think so.   I've felt pretty good about my game this year.   I've had some rough years, but starting to feel good about the way I'm hitting the ball and the putting is improving every year, it seems like, which was needed.   
But also, I went and got some new shafts in my irons last week, so everything feels the way I like it now.  
   
 Q.   That's always good.   Was there anything specific that you worked on this off season with your game or something that you were trying to ‑‑  
KARIN SJODIN:   I started off working on things.   It's always the same swing things for me.   Try to not hit push ups, but go across at the top, but then I got pneumonia in January, so after that I've been kind of just relaxing mostly.   Had some short golf sessions here and there, but still trying to take it easy.  
   
 Q.   I was going to say, that's a little tough.   How long were you sidelined for pretty much for that?  
KARIN SJODIN:   Well, actually I was European Q‑School when it happened.   So I pulled out and then didn't do anything for about three weeks, first starting to putt a little bit again.   And actually right now I'm on my third antibiotic session, so I've not coughed a ton.   I can breathe again.  
   
 Q.   That's always good.   It's amazing, sometimes, though, they always say when you're not maybe feeling at your greatest, sometimes that's when you can ‑‑  
KARIN SJODIN:   Yeah, but at the same time it's kind of hard to hit it two clubs shorter than you're used to as well, so I guess it's a combination.  
   
 Q.   And what do you think the keys are for the rest, heading into the weekend for you?  
KARIN SJODIN:   Just keep doing what I'm doing.   Seems to work now, and just I guess relax a bit this afternoon, take a nap, and just keep on doing the same things.  
   
 Q.   Perfect.   Thank you very much.   Appreciate it.   
KARIN SJODIN:   You're welcome.   
   
 Q.   Hope to see you tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT