SEMGROUP CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY JOHN Q. HAMMONS
May 5, 2007
Karin Sjodin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:  Karin, Thanks for coming in.  1 under overall.  Can you talk about the course?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  It played tougher today.  It's windy, and the greens spread up and dried up, but I think I played all right. 
I hit the ball well tee to green, and I didn't make many putts on the front 9, but on the back 9 I started making some good puts.  
 THE MODERATOR:  Scorecard, quickly?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  Yeah.  
 THE MODERATOR:  Birdie on No. 1?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  Yeah.  I had a third shot that I used a wedge to about 5 feet and tapped in for birdie.  
 THE MODERATOR:  Bogey on 2?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  I chunked a shot off the tee short of the green and chunked a chip and 2-putted.  (Chuckles.) 
 THE MODERATOR:  12, bogey?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  12?  3-putt.  I used an 8-iron and hit the first putt way past it.  
 THE MODERATOR:  Number 13, birdie, par 2?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  I hit a 4-iron to 6, 7, 8 feet, something like that.  
 THE MODERATOR:  And 14, birdie.  
 KARIN SJODIN:  Driver, 3-wood, and then I was just short of the green.  I chipped it over and made an 8-footer. 

 Q.  Everyone knows your long game is fantastic.  How has your short game been this week?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  It's actually been pretty good.  I just told my caddy 100% of bunkers, up and down, I've been chipping solidly. 

 Q.  100% of bunkers today meaning -- 
 KARIN SJODIN:  I've been in only two bunkers, but I've been up and down.  It has a ways to get to my long game. 

 Q.  Your shot at 14, how close were you to that tree?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  I had to stop my follow-through.  Pretty short, otherwise I would have hit it. 

 Q.  You've had dicey rescue shots that you've put pretty darn close to the hole.  
 KARIN SJODIN:  Yeah, that's what happens sometimes, I guess. 

 Q.  Karin, what's different from the mornings to the afternoons?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  I think mornings are usually calmer, but it was windy today, and I think it was windier today than yesterday, and the course dried out, and the are greens faster. 

 Q.  At the top of the leaderboard is a lot of players who have either never won or haven't won in a long time, except from that one girl for Mexico.  
 KARIN SJODIN:  Yeah. 

 Q.  Does that encourage you to know that there is a whole bunch of people in the same boat here with you that are looking for that victory that hasn't been for a while?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  I don't know if I look at it that way, but either way, no matter who is up there, I know that I played just as well as they have, and I want to win as much as they do, so, of course it's better to have those names up there than Annika and Lorena, but I know I can do it tomorrow as well. 

 Q.  Interesting, all 3 of you coming in here, no one fell back.  
 KARIN SJODIN:  I think we all played solid today, no major mistakes and kept it together, and also playing in the morning, not as many people out there watching and didn't feel like it was the last group on a Saturday. 

 Q.  Why do you wear glasses off the course and you don't wear them on the course?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  I can't play with glasses.  I guess I could play with contacts, but this morning I had a hard time seeing the ball, especially on long shots? 
 But I see the pin most of the time, and it doesn't bug me too much.  My caddy has to help me a bit every once in a while. 

 Q.  Your vision is okay -- 
 KARIN SJODIN:  Yeah, it's okay.  In Sweden they wouldn't give me contacts because my problem wasn't big enough.  It was a weird thing, I don't know the words in English, but -- I guess I know I can get contacts over here. 

 Q.  Many people can't play with glasses.  Are you a big pinch hitter that they might fall off -- 
 KARIN SJODIN:  I think the ones I have sit loosely on, so if I looked down I think they would fall off. 
Also my swing, I tend to move a bit too much.  This thing on the glasses would get in the way. 

 Q.  You're going to be in one of the final groups tomorrow.  Has it been in a while since you played in a final group?  I know you finished 7th here last year.  Is this one of the better positions you've been in for a final day?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  I think it is.  In Mexico at the beginning of year, I don't know where I was but I played with Annika the last day, so I must have been high up there.  (Chuckles.) 
 Yeah, I think that's about it.  I played with Paula last year here, so that felt like a final group, lots of people following her. 

 Q.  Throughout every hole there was only one time you didn't smile today, and that's when you 3-putted.  The whole day, you've smiled the entire time, you like to joke around?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  I don't think I would play golf if I didn't have fun doing it.  My caddy and I have a great time.  We tell jokes and laugh about whatever I do out there, my mistakes, and I think that's the attitude I have to have.  I have to have fun to play well. 

 Q.  Sometimes you get a little squirrel -- 
 KARIN SJODIN:  Every once in a while they come up and say hi. 

 Q.  The forecast is dicey tomorrow, you're starting early.  Could be a long day.  Is that something you have to block out and just when you get out on the course tomorrow?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  I think we've had rain delays in most events this year, every single one I've played in we've had one or two thunderstorms come through, so I think I'm used to it by now. 

 Q.  How do you deal with it?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  I don't think there is a way to deal with it or not deal with it, you just have to accept it.  I'm staying pretty close to the course, so I don't have to wait in the clubhouse, and even if I do I can spend my time here and not get too sick of it. 

 Q.  Yesterday you told me the wetter the better.  Are you hoping it's a wet course?  
 KARIN SJODIN:  No, because if it is too wet we won't play, but I think the course is playing long for most people now.  It's nice when the greens get firm, so it could rain on the fairways and get dry on the greens.  I would like that.  
 THE MODERATOR:  Thanks Karin.  



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT