NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: CARDINALS v METS
October 13, 2006
So Taguchi
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Was it a surprise to you when you came in the game?  It seemed like they stopped the game a little bit to get you out in left field.  Did you know that you were going into the game?   
 SO TAGUCHI:  Tony told me next batter, I'm supposed to be pinch-hitter.  I was behind the dugout.  Tony said, "So, go left."  So, I was surprised.  (Laughter.)   
 I just said, "Right now?"   
 He said yes.   
  
  Q.  You're not a home run hitter, at least your record isn't that you're a home run hitter, and yet you have two home runs in the post-season so far.   
 SO TAGUCHI:  Yes.   
  
  Q.  And you have only two at-bats.  How do you explain that?   
 SO TAGUCHI:  I can't explain.  (Laughter.)  It's unbelievable.   
 Who expected that I would hit a home run?  Maybe nobody, even me.   
  
  Q.  Is this what happens when you get in your late 30s, you get a power surge all of a sudden?   
 SO TAGUCHI:  (Laughing) What can I say?   
  
  Q.  Can you discuss, was the at-bat, I think it was a nine-pitch at-bat that you hit the home run, can you describe the at-bat against Wagner in the ninth.   
 SO TAGUCHI:  Because maybe my stats against Billy Wagner maybe 0 for something, I never got on base, and always strike out, ground ball, pop up.   
 So, I just stay on top of the ball and try to get on base.   
  
  Q.  You said you don't think you had any hits off Wagner?   
 SO TAGUCHI:  No.   
  
  Q.  None?   
 SO TAGUCHI:  No.  (Laughter.)   
  
  Q.  How difficult is it to come in that situation, facing a guy like Billy Wagner who throws as hard as he does?   
 SO TAGUCHI:  (Scratching head. ) How different?  Too much different.  (Laughter.)   
 It's very tough.  I think he's one of the best closers in the big leagues.  So probably can't imagine.   
  
  Q.  What were you thinking when you were rounding the bases?  You just hit a home run, first hit off Wagner, your hit off Wagner is a home run, what was going through your mind as you're rounding the bases?   
 SO TAGUCHI:  I couldn't recognize what happened.  (Laughter.)  I didn't know, what should I do, so I just run.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT