LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2020
Bradley Wright-Phillips
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  LAFC 5, San Jose 1
 Q. Your thoughts on the game?
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   I think overall, it's a great bounce back performance.  I think it's a game we needed.  I think we needed to just bounce back from the last two results.  It hasn't been great.  I think last week got a little better with the start but this week it was more of a complete performance, a little gutted about conceding the goal at the end but it's a good performance.
 Q. Bob has been talking a lot about just looking for different ways to find leadership on the team.  Obviously you went through a rough stretch.  You being a veteran and being in the League and having so much experience, what's it like for you being able to help the younger guys on the team bounceback?
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   Yeah, it's one of those for me, it's something I've got to do naturally, I've got to try and do that, try and use my experience but it's also tough for me because I'm kind of knew.  I didn't want to be just talking rubbish to the guys.  They know how things work here a lot better than I do, and it's a matter of taking my time and seeing where I can help out around the pitch.
 I think the team is young, but they have got a lot of clever, wise players, guys that have played a lot of big games, and it showed tonight.  I think collectively, it has to come collectively.  We have all got a responsibility, and I think tonight we saw that.
 Q. That was an impressive rebound or recovery from the last two games, because as you know in most professional sports, very good teams, they say they lose a couple games in a row and all of the sudden, they find it difficult to get out of that, and it extends to more games.  You guys were able to really reverse course, and bring back that style and that magic that it seems like you had before with the artistry.  Could you talk about the number of different goals and how your team scored tonight and how they scored them, and how important was it to get that win back on your home field after the loss to the Galaxy last week?
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   That was a tremendously long question.
 Q. Sorry about that.
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   No, but you're right.  It's something we spoke about before; we had to bounce back.  I think the longer these kind of runs go on, other teams start smelling blood, and we didn't want to be in that predicament.  I think we all banded together as a team and just grinded it out.
 We knew if we wanted to battle, get a few good performances, more than -- the whole team playing well, I think it was -- we're bound to win, and I think that showed tonight.
 Q. Do you know how many goals you have all-time now in Major League Soccer?
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLPS:   I don't.
 Q. 112.
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   That's not bad.
 Q. Not too shabby.  On your goal today, you're known as a hold-up guy and a good center forward, can work well between post-to-post, but have you been working on your speed?  Because you separated from some of those defenders.  Has that speed always been there?  We haven't seen it, but even as an elder statesman, you got some separation.  Have you been working on that?
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   Don't disrespect me, man.  I've always had a little bit of pace.  I've always had a little bit.  I just -- someone trusted me.  Diego trusted me.  If he thought I was slow, he wouldn't have played that pass.  I think it's always been there.  But yeah, I think I surprised a few people.  They are letting my age come before what actually happens.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT