LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 31, 2020
Bradley Wright-Phillips
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Orlando City 6, LAFC 5
Q. Just your thoughts on the first half.  The only shot you had in the first half was your goal, which was pulled back.  What was happening that made it so difficult for you guys to present your attack as you wanted to?
BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   Yeah, we obviously wasn't ourselves tonight.  I thought it was just one of those games, know, there's not much recovery times.  I thought it was one of those games we had to get through and declaration our chance when we got them.  We just didn't do enough all around the field.  We wasn't alert enough.  Our reactions wasn't great.  But we still done enough to get a goal, and I think we've just got to see it out there.
Q. Yourself and Bob both talked about energy levels.  Was that just the nature of the games being tight, so compact?  Was there something else that you think was missing?  What do you attribute that to?
BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   I'm not too sure.  I'm really not too sure, but it wasn't just one man.  It's obviously something that maybe the games were building up.  I'm not really too sure, but every player wasn't as sharp as they can be, and it showed definitely in the first half.  That's the reason we don't get the result we want.  I think if we're sharp, we win that game.
Q. Obviously there's disappointment after this one, but what went on after the final penalty kick that you guys came together for a little bit?
BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   It doesn't even matter.  I think whatever was shown, you guys saw, it doesn't matter.  Congratulations to them.
Q. Curious if you sue anything, obviously it wasn't the prettiest game, pretty chippy affair.  Did you see anything in particular in the way Orlando game-planned and handled the match that made things difficult for you guys?
BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   No, not really.  It's a quarterfinal.  Both teams are going to want it.  I think they tried to play hard and we were trying the same.  I didn't expect anything less.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT