LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 13, 2020
Bradley Wright-Phillips
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  LA FC 3, Houston 3
 Q. Talk a little about being able to get back out onto the field and be able to contribute the way you did today after so long of not being able to do so.
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   Yeah, it was -- it was like I keep going back to school.  You know, I haven't started a game since April 2019, April 19 or something like that.  I was happy I got the start and also happy to get some match fitness.  I haven't played for a while.  It was good.  I enjoyed it.
 Q. You've gotten to play alongside some talented guys in your career.  What have you made of Diego and Brian, getting to see them every day in training, and what do you think each of those guys bring to this team and the league?
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   First name was Diego, you said, and Brian?
 Q. Yeah.
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   Yeah, it's exciting.  I look at those young guys, and it just makes my job a lot easier.  I don't have to run as much.  I don't have to do as much off the ball.  I think those guys are tremendously talented, and you see that today.  They haven't played for a while and they look like they haven't missed a beat.
 For me, the older guy, it's good to be around those guys.  You get the energy from them and try to follow suit.
 Q. Previously Bob Bradley had mentioned a few players weren't full 90 minutes; after playing this game and obviously you see the weather conditions and congratulations on your first goal; do you feel that you could play 90 minutes?
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   Yeah, I feel like I spoke with Bob before the game, and he had let me know that he was thinking more 45 minutes, but we spoke at halftime and I felt good.  I felt I could have played longer, but I think every player would say that.  I think the coaches know best.
 The trainers know best and they just wanted to take precautions as I haven't played for a while.  I respect their decision.
 Yeah, I do feel like I got some legs under me.  Training has been hard and intense, and you do take it step-by-step.  If I'm needed to play 90 minutes, I think I can do it.
 Q. Obviously you guys had a slow start and were down 3-1.  What did Bob Bradley tell you guys at halftime?
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   I think it was more silly mistakes or just not giving away silly fouls.
 Also, I think for me personally, when I've watched this team play, there's more tempo.  It's obviously the first game, so those things will take a few games to come back, but I think the biggest problem was our tempo.
 I don't think we -- we kind of played the way they wanted to play.  They wanted to slow the game down, and I think we fell into that trap earlier in the game.
 I think second half, you see we came out a bit sharper and we got those two goals.  Actually had another one, as well; I think we could have gotten three points, but I think it was down to tempo.
 Q. I think you had some concerns coming into this tournament about the whole setup.  Just wondering, now you've had a few days there, you've got a game under your belt.  Just what's your experience like compared to what you thought it might be like?
 BRADLEY WRIGHT-PHILLIPS:   It's what I thought it would be like.  I thought it would be boring.  It's boring, but that's life.  You know, we're here.  I think on days like today you get to play and you get to fight for three points, and I think that's what we tried to do. I'm here now.  I made my comments.  It doesn't really matter.  I'm here to try to win games and help LA FC win games, and it is what it is.
 FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT