SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2015
Erika Ford
Tiaria Griffin
Andy Landers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We are joined by Georgia head coach and student‑athletes Tiaria Griffin and Erika Ford. 
COACH LANDERS:   It's pretty simple, it's short and sweet:   we didn't compete, they kicked our tail.   End of story. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Andy, you played Tennessee a tight game in Athens.   What was the difference in this one?
COACH LANDERS:   We didn't compete.   We came out in a fog, in a daze, didn't compete.   Turn it over a couple times, didn't get the offensive rebound.   Did all the bad things in the first three or four minutes of the game.   In the first three or four minutes of the game we did all the bad things you don't want to do.   They've already gotten it down off of a turnover and laid it up.
Rather than it upsetting us, I saw no positive reaction to that.   I mean, the things that happened were foreseeable if you do not address those things before they happen.   You don't box out, you're going to give up offensive rebounds.   Same person didn't box out the same person three times in a row on the same frigging possession.   Unbelievable. 

Q.   Coach, with regard to the rebounding differential?
COACH LANDERS:   That's hustle.   That's hustle.   That's hustle.   That's hustle.   That's us missing a lot of shots.   Early in the game, that's us putting up a lot of outside shots, missing 'em.   I just told our team, there was once tonight when the ball hit the rim, I looked up, we had three people running back on defense.   It wasn't because we were excited about playing defense.   You could tell we weren't too excited about playing defense.   We just didn't want to go rebound. 

Q.   When the run started in the first half, did you feel a letdown within the entire team?
TIARIA GRIFFIN:   I don't think we came out ready to play from the start.   A lot of us just wasn't on the same page. 

Q.   Erika, was there anything in particular that contributed to a lack of effort from the players' point of view?
ERIKA FORD:   I don't think so.   I think it's just what we've been saying.   No one came ready to play.   No one had any energy.   Our faces were dead.   In the time‑out, you could definitely tell it was just draining. 

Q.   In a tournament setting like this, playing in back‑to‑back days, could that have something to do with it?
COACH LANDERS:   Sure, it could.   It could have been soft good, not being focused good, not caring enough good, not being together enough good.   It could be a lot of things.   All of them should be on the table. 
I'm sorry, if you were asking them, I'd like to hear their answer.   I jumped in there and answered the question.   I didn't know if it was for me or them. 

Q.   Andy, do you feel like now you've done enough to get in?
COACH LANDERS:   No, no, no. 

Q.   Andy, was this a case of Tennessee playing really great defense?
COACH LANDERS:   No, no, no.   Same two teams that played those other games.   Both those games, as I recall, last four or five minutes of the game, two, three points of each other.   Same two teams. 
I don't think they played any better tonight than they did before.   I think defensively we were awful.   They shot 60% the second half.   47 to 23 on the boards.   We fouled 17 times.   You know why you foul?   You foul because you're out of position, so... 
They subbed.   I mean, she was nice the last seven, eight minutes of the game.   She was nice.   She felt sorry for us. 
THE MODERATOR:   Coach, ladies, thank you. 
COACH LANDERS:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT