SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2010
Andy Landers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: Joining is Georgia head Coach Landers and student-athletes. We'll take an opening comment from coach. 
 COACH LANDERS: Well, we were pleased at halftime. We weren't satisfied, but we were pleased. Thought we played reasonably well. We had done many of the things that we wanted to do, knew that we had given up too many offensive rebounds in the first half and left Govero in the corner open twice. 
 But overall had done a reasonably good job. Came out second half -- actually, at halftime reviewed with people their tendencies and what needed to be done. Came out second half, and I thought that Rack really hurt us with penetration early in the second half. Got the ball deep. We were very poor with any kind of help to her. She got up some little chip shots from in tight. 
 We turned the ball over on the perimeter. They laid all those up. That created the momentum. They had two things going then: they were driving the ball the way they wanted to drive it in the halfcourt, and they were running hard. We didn't want any one of those two things to ever happen tonight, and they had them both going at the same time. 
 As the game wore on, we left Govero again in the corner I think for three more, and that helped create the spread. When we got down in the score situation, we weren't very good. We didn't seem to be able to check up full court and guard our people. 
 THE MODERATOR: We'll take questions. 

 Q. Coach, did you sense any similarities to the first game? 
 COACH LANDERS: No, not really. You know, they jumped us early down there. To me, I mean, similarities, sure, they ran on us early. Tonight they ran on us on turnovers. That's similar, but it wasn't the same. 
 You know, we got down and we fought back. We didn't do that tonight. So not that similar to me. You know, Govero doesn't score on us, Rack does, and tonight Govero hurt us badly. 

 Q. Seemed like you slowed down your tempo on offense in the second half. Is that something Mississippi State was doing? 
 COACH LANDERS: Well, we did run the ball well. I told the team at halftime that that's when I felt we looked our best, was when we were running it. 
 We didn't get it to where we could run it, and it's hard to run it after the other team scores. They were scoring a good bit the second half. That slowed us down a little bit. Then they were mixing in some zone trap. That slowed us down a little bit. 
 But, you know, when it looked to me like we were running, I was all for running. When we didn't have a run, we tried to run a couple of sets, because there was a time when we were settling for jump shots. You know, we went through about four or five minutes where the ball never went inside. 

 Q. I think Rack was 0-7 in the first half. You talked about how she got free from penetration. What did you do in the first half so well that you liked?
 COACH LANDERS: Nothing really strategically any different than what we wanted to do in the second half. I think she brought a little bit more determination. I think her pride probably kicked in at halftime because she had a little bit more zip to her, a little bit more attack mode. 
 We did not play them defensively the same as we did in Starkville. She may have been expecting some different defense coming off of those ball screens, and it may have taken her to halftime, I don't know, for them to adjust and make her understand because they're playing us like this, you're going to have to do something else. 
 But she got the ball deep. She got it in there. Like I said, she scored up a couple from four or five feet. Hurt us. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT