SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2007
Tasha Humphrey
Andy Landers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  We're joined by Georgia head coach Andy Landers and players Cori Chambers and Tasha Humphrey.   
 Coach, if you would make an opening comment, we'll take questions.   
 COACH LANDERS:  Well, you know, I think it's pretty obvious, Vanderbilt did what Vanderbilt wanted to do.  They did it the way they wanted to do it.  We didn't affect it very much.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions for coach or players.   
  
  Q.  Tasha, coach had already said there was no intensity when you guys were coming out.  Why was that?   
 TASHA HUMPHREY:  I really can't say.  We had a defensive game plan coming into the game.  We just didn't execute.   
  
  Q.  Andy, are you baffled to go from where you were yesterday to today?   
 COACH LANDERS:  Today is going to take a little bit more effort.  It involved our defensive play on the perimeter a lot more -- in a lot more serious manner.  Yesterday, the ball (indiscernible) laid with the post players, or at least that being the serious part.   
 Today, you know, we had to affect certain people as they were on the perimeter.  And the difficulty with their post players was they could shoot you outside.  They could go inside and play the power game.   
 So, you know, you ask me if I'm surprised to go from yesterday to today.  I'd be surprised to go to today any time.  When you're in a tournament and you just don't bring the intensity and the toughness that you have to have to compete isn't just a surprise, it's kind of shocking that you let shooters catch and shoot, that you even let them catch let alone be wide open and shoot, you know, that you know where they're cutting from, what screens they're using.  You can't beat 'em to those screens.   
 This isn't a team that doesn't have exceptional quickness, guys.  That's the things that's interesting.  There are people in this league that can make it really hard for us to keep up with when they make their cuts.  This isn't one of those teams.   
  
  Q.  Is there anything you could identify in particular that they were able to do defensively to stop the offense tonight?   
 COACH LANDERS:  Unfortunately I think some of the offense was tied to defense.  We go down on the defensive end.  We started off in a zone.  We played them a lot of zone, almost entirely zone, in Athens earlier in the year.  What do they do?  They drill it right inside, drill it right into the middle of the zone and lay us up.   
 First thing you know, they've shot one or two.  We've gone down on the other end, missed a couple of layups, missed a couple of put-backs to start the game.  Now I think our offense is tied to our defense.  We can't stop them.  We're going down the floor probably think of that, and they're doing a good job of keeping us matched.  We're not attacking.  We're passing.   
 I'll take responsibility for the way we started the game on the offensive end.  I'll take all the responsibility for it.  I'm not going to take any of the responsibility for what we did on the defensive end, none of it.   
  
  Q.  You were talking yesterday about how you were building towards something.  How much does this damage what you were building towards?   
 COACH LANDERS:  I don't know.  I really don't know.  You know, I mean, tournament teams have to bring a fight to the tournament.  You know, I mean, you realize you're one-and-done.  They're an absence of fight.  You know, we didn't come out of the locker room ready.  I don't know.   
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT