SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 2, 2007
Tasha Humphrey
Andy Landers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR: Joining us from Georgia, head coach Andy Landers and players Angel Robinson and Tasha Humphrey. 
 Coach, if you could start with an opening comment. 
 COACH LANDERS:  I thought our basketball team was very good today on both ends of the floor.  I was particularly impressed with their ability to focus on what it was we wanted to do and how we wanted to accomplish that on the defensive end and then just stay with it for 40 minutes. 
 I thought that our kids were excellent there, and then they were excellent in cleaning up the boards after they had played terrific defense. 
 Offensively, you know, we had a couple of cool spots where we weren't as efficient.  But for the most part very efficient.  I thought our guards were the players of the game, you know, because in the first half, selfishness should have kicked in at some point, but they just kept throwing the ball inside.  I mean, they went without shots. 
 They went without a lot of shots.  We got kids on the perimeter that usually shoot the basketball.  But, boy, they were just terrific on continuing to feed the ball inside, feed the ball inside, feed it in. 
 Then Angel and Tasha, terrific at finishing and scoring.  I just thought our guards were outstanding in making that kind of decision and that commitment to our basketball team playing well.  And certainly our forwards were outstanding once they got the ball in their hands. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  Coach, getting the tournament here in the state of Georgia, fairly close to home, a good crowd today, what kind of lift does that give your team, if any?  A lot of orange out there anyway.  The advantages of being close to home for the tournament for the first time in a while? 
 COACH LANDERS:  Well, I think the first advantage when you play close to home is that you probably don't spend a day, waste a day really, traveling.  Our kids were in class yesterday.  We didn't leave until they had finished classes yesterday.  So it's somewhat like a normal routine.  We didn't waste a day.  We didn't tire ourselves out going somewhere else to play.  That's first and foremost. 
 Then to have these fans here today and to suspect that we'll have more each day as we move forward.  I think 3:30 time is a tough time for people unless they're rich or homeless, just a tough proposition.  They got to work.  That will get better as we move forward.  Certainly people today were a big support for us. 

 Q.  Can you address the job you did against Elliott and Humphrey, given what they did yesterday? 
 COACH LANDERS:  Not just what they did yesterday; they played very well against us in Lexington.  I think our kids were determined to not let that happen again, to stop that.  They just stepped up and played.  We had a reasonably good idea of what they were going to do and how they were going to go about doing that from an execution standpoint.  Our kids locked in on it, disrupted it, stopped it, just stopped it. 
 A great thing about it, you know, make no mistake about it, this game, any game, they're down there on one end scoring, so they really feel like going back to the other end and guarding people.  You know, I mean, it would be interesting somewhere down the road if we go out there and miss shots, see if we go down on the other end and guard people like we did today. 
 Today, just a good day.  Everything's going well.  But they certainly stepped up and shut it down. 

 Q.  Only 20% from the field, new tournament record.  How were you able to limit the looks they got?  You just covered them up not only on the inside but from the outside they were not getting looks at the basket they got yesterday. 
 COACH LANDERS:  Do you want me to explain what the strategy was?  On the ball screen, step up hard with the post players very, very close, jam 'em and go under.  Know that they're going to dishonor ball screens and drive it to the baseline, which is what they did yesterday:  Drive it to the baseline, drive it to the basket and score.  We're not going to let that happen.  There's a way we defend against that. 
 They got a high-low game.  We're going to push 'em up, push 'em out, deny the four man out a little bit farther than she wants to be, extend the pass.  Getting all this?  You're not writing anything down now.  You wanted to know this (laughter). 
 You know, on stagger screens, beat the guards to the first screen.  They were running a lot of stagger screens.  You can handle stagger screens.  If you're behind when you get the first screen, you're dead.  A couple times they got shots because we were behind. 
 What else?  The elbow-to-elbow screen with their two bigs where they screen for each other and roll down the middle.  The play we ran on them and scored, they run that a lot.  Switch hard, disrupt the ball handler, drop in. 
 Anything else?  I'm going to put that on a disc and I want you to buy it (laughter). 

 Q.  Tasha, can you talk about the last game you played, went to overtime, getting off to the quick start, not letting it go there again. 
 TASHA HUMPHREY:  I mean, the team they played in Lexington is not the same team they played here tonight.  I think since that point on, we knew Kentucky was a great basketball team, well-coached by Coach DeMoss.  We just came in with that mentality that, you know, nobody's going to stop us but ourselves.  We played great on both ends of the floor.  I think our guards did a great job of getting us the ball and we did a great job finishing it. 
 In the second half, we did a good job setting the guards up off screen, things like that.  They did a great job finishing.  So I think it was a great team effort on both ends of the floor. 

 Q.  When did you have an idea that Rebecca would be able to contribute today?  What did it mean to get some time on the bench for Tasha? 
 COACH LANDERS:  Yesterday afternoon on the way over here, I got basically the blood report, the lab report, you know, that her whatever you call it, vital signs, were all normal.  She actually for the last week was released by the doctor to do as much as she could tolerate. 
 But I didn't want to go there.  So she's done nothing until tonight.  She was probably the most surprised person in the building to have run out on the floor three or four times and play whatever. 
 How many minutes did she get, Tasha? 
 TASHA HUMPHREY:  Six. 
 COACH LANDERS:  Six minutes.  She's wore out, which is what I feared.  She just asked me if she could go back to the hotel.  So that's where she's headed. 
 But it was nice to have a third big to match their two bigs.  That was nice.  We got the medium size and big and the little big taken care of with Maria and Megan, but that third big was handy today. 
 THE MODERATOR:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT