SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 3, 2006
Sherill Baker
Cori Chambers
Andy Landers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 COACH ANDY LANDERS:  First statement, I think they need to probably fire the statistician if Baker only had three steals. 

 COACH ANDY LANDERS:  I thought she had her hands on a bunch of balls.  Maybe I was wrong.  I thought that she was terrific there.  We played really well, which we have done on a number of occasions this year, particularly since the 1st of January. 
 But defensively I thought we did a good job with the press, not necessarily enforcing turnovers, but in controlling tempo.  I thought we did a good job in the halfcourt of keeping the ball out of the high post. 
 Vanderbilt is really, really good - really good.  I just love watching them play.  You know, the tapes that we've had, and of course we just played them a week ago, they're so disciplined, they're so skilled, and they run their stuff, they do a great job with it. 
 I thought we did a great job of keeping it out of the high post, then getting to the three-point shooters.  So defensively we were good.  Offensively, we were able to turn 'em a couple of times.  We were able to rebound the ball.  Cori had seven rebounds at the half.  We were able to rebound the ball well and get it out and run some.  You know, I think that's what our kids enjoyed doing the most. 
 Then in the halfcourt, we were able -- again Cori knocked down some three's, Jay knocked down a three in the first half.  We just kind of separated ourselves from 'em. 

 Q.  Talk about the ability to find Cori open so much and get the three-point shot. 
 SHERILL BAKER:  I know when I penetrated, when other guards penetrate, we opened up Cori and Megan on a three-point shot.  Cori and Megan hit down the three's we needed tonight. 
 Q.  Cori, I wanted to ask you, I think there was a three you hit in the first half.  One of the other players was on the ground.  Do you remember that play?  Do you ever remember getting a basket on a pass from a player that was on the ground? 
 CORI CHAMBERS:  I think that was Tasha falling out of bounds.  No, I don't think that's ever happened. 
 COACH ANDY LANDERS:  Kick-out for a three.  A big-time play.  Tasha had gotten herself under the basket.  I forget how she got the ball.  You know, to be able to make the pass right to Cori in such a manner that Cori could catch and shoot was really, you know, impressive to me. 
 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 SHERILL BAKER:  Like 13 steals (laughter). 
 Q.  Coach and Cori, are you glad to get another crack at Tennessee? 
 COACH ANDY LANDERS:  Yeah, yeah.  I mean, we've played them twice.  Pat, before she retired, devised a schedule where Georgia would play Tennessee and LSU twice in the same year.  We can thank her for that. 
 But, you know, at their place, I don't think that we deserved to win the game.  But I thought the game was winnable.  At our place, I thought -- I'm not saying we deserved to win it, but I thought we should have won it, and we didn't. 
 You know, to me personally, yeah, it's a wonderful opportunity.  When you've played a team twice like that and didn't get it done, to be able to have another shot at them, you know, is really neat.  I mean, if they beat us again, then I guess you say, "They're better than we are. " That kind of proves it.  I don't see where the damage is going to be done there.  So we got everything to win and nothing to lose as far as I'm concerned. 
 CORI CHAMBERS:  I mean, I'm excited.  It's the post-season, so it's kind of like the pre-season and all those other games we played is already in the past, and everything is a game-by-game situation.  We're excited to play and fired up about it.  Got to go home and get some rest now. 
 Q.  (No microphone.) 
 COACH ANDY LANDERS:  It's going to be interesting.  Our players need to understand it.  Sherill and Cori, this is something I didn't say to the team after the game, that they need to go back and stress very clearly to our team, this will be a challenge for us because generally after we play a Sunday game, we're off on Monday.  After we play a Thursday game, we do very little on Friday. 
 We've got to be mentally very, very tough the rest of the week.  It was important to us that we could rest and take care of ourselves.  That's something else that I should compliment our basketball team on.  We were off day before yesterday.  We did very little yesterday.  We did very little today in shoot-around.  Any time you take a team out of a routine, a coach worries about that, for them to be able to come out, tip it up and go hard, as if we had been in a routine and pressed a great deal tonight. 
 But we're going to be challenged the next couple days. 
 Q.  I was wondering how you like having the tournament here in Little Rock, second time around, if you'd like to see it stay in the rotation? 
 COACH ANDY LANDERS:  Well, you know, I wasn't at the afternoon session.  I was back at the hotel watching Law and Order and a little bit of tape.  So I don't know how it drew.  I'm not a good one to ask. 
 I think it's important that our tournament draws.  I think it's important that people attend.  I remember the last time we were out here, it drew very, very well.  I was extremely impressed and excited to come back.  But I wasn't at the afternoon session.  I know we played a late game.  That's not a great draw, so I'm not a good one to ask right now.  I'm sorry. 


 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT