SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 9, 2013
Jasmine Hassell
Jasmine James
Andy Landers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   We're joined by Georgia head coach Andy Landers and student‑athletes Jasmine Hassell and Jasmine James. 
COACH LANDERS:   From an expectation standpoint, it was what we expected.   We expected full‑court defense.   We got it.   We expected good man‑to‑man defense.   We got that.   Kentucky did a very good job with those things. 
Defensively I thought the first half we were where we wanted to be.   They probably got what they expected.   But the second half obviously was disappointing.   It started on the offensive end with turnovers, which led to some transitions, quick loss of possession.   We were on defense, bam, we give up a three, we're on defense again, four‑point lead is gone.   All of a sudden you look up and it seems like in three or four trips we're down.   I don't know that I'm right, but it felt like we were down six just like that. 
We strayed from where we wanted to be defensively.   We strayed from where we were in the first half defensively.   We paid for it.   From that point on, it wasn't a lot of fun. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for the student‑athletes. 

Q.   In the second half, they did a good job of shutting you down in the paint.   What were they doing there? 
JASMINE HASSELL:   They came with a double‑team.   I mean, I don't know.   They came with a double‑team. 
COACH LANDERS:   We didn't get her the ball.   We did a good job of getting her the basketball the first half.   We didn't do a very good job of getting her the basketball in the second half.   You didn't ask me.   But she's sitting here making stuff up that's not real. 

Q.   Obviously the season is not over for you right now.   The tournament is.   How do you use this tournament as you build to go into the national tournament? 
JASMINE HASSELL:   Just refocus and do what we need to do.   We need to fight more.   We need to execute.   We need to execute our game plan.   We did not do that.   We didn't do that in the second half. 
JASMINE JAMES:   I agree with that.   I believe we need to refocus more.   40 minutes in the game, we consistently play 20 or 30.   We need to learn to stick together and play a complete 40 to be as good as we can possibly be. 

Q.   Ugly shooting numbers, particularly in the second half.   What were they doing defensively to you, especially on the perimeter? 
JASMINE JAMES:   Kentucky has a defense that applies a lot of pressure.   When we did finally get open to knock down shots, we just didn't do a good job of doing that.   That's practice and focus.   Clearly we didn't have that. 
THE MODERATOR:   We'll take questions for Coach Landers. 

Q.   What was Kentucky able to do at the start of the second half?
COACH LANDERS:   Capitalize.   I think the first thing they were able to do is capitalize on our miscues.   If I'm not mistaken, we turned it over three of the first four, maybe the first three times in a row.   It was nonchalant offensive execution.   They took it right down the court very quickly, as they do on turnovers.   First thing you know, they're dropping threes on us. 
The turnovers I think affected our team mentally when they should not have, but they did.   I think for sure the instant offense that those turnovers led to affected us even more.   We weren't very mature at that point.   We weren't very poised at that point. 

Q.   Kentucky is a tough team to get in the semifinals, but obviously a good team.   Any positives to seeing them early?
COACH LANDERS:   Let's be real.   I mean, we've done the things we wanted to do the first half.   We wanted to keep them out of the paint.   We wanted to rebound the basketball.   We wanted them to be one‑and‑done and no threes.   So we done a pretty good job.   Same game plan second half.   Didn't do it. 
You ought to be able to learn something from that.   Kentucky didn't change anything.   They didn't start the second half, in my view, with any more intensity than they started the game with.   We just quit doing what had put us in a successful position at halftime, which is really sad. 
Now, you look at the big picture, we gave up 60 points.   All the bad things that happened defensively, we still should have won.   Surely you can score 61.   But then you get to the numbers that's already been mentioned.
You know, everybody on our team, because of Kentucky's defense, was forced to shoot a couple of shots they would rather not have shot, to Kentucky's credit, okay?   The rest of them, nobody held a gun to our head and made us shoot those.   But we didn't hit shots. 
Basketball is no fun when you don't hit shots. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT