MLB EXPANSION DRAFT
November 18, 1997
Dave Dombrowski
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   DAVE DOMBROWSKI:  We are trading Robb Nen to the San Francisco Giants.  And we're acquiring first round draft choice from 1995 Joe Fontenot.  Right‑hand pitcher Mike Villano and right‑hand pitcher Mic Pageler.  Pageler and Fontenot will be assigned to our Double‑A rosters and Villano our Major League roster.  You've heard about the Devon White deal.  And we're also trading right‑hand pitcher Kurt Miller to the Chicago Cubs for a player to be named later.   
  
  Q.  With the reduction of Alou, Nen, White and Saunders off the Major League roster, how much does that save you?   
 DAVE DOMBROWSKI:  I haven't calculated those specific numbers.  And I can talk to you later, but I haven't really specified those.   
  
  Q.  Who is your closer now?   
 DAVE DOMBROWSKI:  Right now we're a bullpen by committee, with Howell and Heredia.  We've got Oscar Henriquez, Alfonseca, Rob Stanifer, so we have ‑‑ Dennis Cook at this time.  So we still have pretty good arms out in the bullpen.  Manuel Barrios.   
  
  Q.  There is some speculation before the draft that there was one team that had six deals ready and waiting if scenarios presented themselves, and there was a speculation that it was the Marlins, was it indeed your club?   
 DAVE DOMBROWSKI:  Well, we had a lot of them potentially done.  I can't say that there were six, but there were quite a few of them.  At this time we're going back and we're going to regroup in Florida and we'll sit back and there's still some moves that we'll be making.   
  
  Q.  Dave, I don't know if you've been asked, but how much of a impact was Brown's contact on talks with him, and what are your chances of trading him?   
 DAVE DOMBROWSKI:  In Kevin Brown's case?   
  
  Q.  Yes.   
 DAVE DOMBROWSKI:  Any of the conversations I've had, I've never had any difficulty with peoples contracts with Kevin Brown because of the quality of pitcher he is.   
  
  Q.  You're not signing him next year?   
 DAVE DOMBROWSKI:  Some people figure that an advantage.   
  
  Q.  Was Devon just expendable because of your Minor League situation?   
 DAVE DOMBROWSKI:  Well, the younger fielders, in Devon's situation being more a veteran‑type player, I think it was a situation where it opened it up for our young players to play center field and allows him the opportunity to play close to home.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT