NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS v DIAMONDBACKS
October 13, 2001
Matt Morris
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  You're hoping for one more start this year?
 
MATT MORRIS: Sure.  I'm hoping I get a lot more than one more.  But right now the situation we're in, we have to take one game at a time.  And considering the rain today, who knows what's going to happen.  I could get my chance tomorrow in the fourth game, which will make me just as happy.  But we get Bud Smith going today, and if he pitches the game, I think he matches up well against these guys and we take it to Arizona for the deciding game. 
 
Q.  Are you available if need be today?
 
MATT MORRIS: I'm available.  I don't see them using me, though, with Hermanson in the bullpen and guys like that.  You know, I think Bud Smith is good enough for today.  I think he's going to go out and pitch a good game.  My day will be tomorrow. 
 
Q.  Can you pitch any better than you did in Arizona against Schilling?
 
MATT MORRIS: Well, I can win the game.  That would be for starters.  I'm wondering if he could pitch any better.  I gave up the run in the 5th, which was the deciding run of the game.  And, you know, if we match up tomorrow in the deciding game, it's tough for him.  He's got to go out there and throw a complete-game shutout again to match his performance.  As far as I'm concerned, I'm already 0-1.  I'm going to go out there and give it all I've got.  If he matches his performance, you can only tip your hat to him and head on home.  But I think we've got a good chance. 
 
Q.  You're an emotional pitcher.  Having already gone through Game 1, will that help you in this next start?
 
MATT MORRIS: I think throwing the first game and getting in trouble in the first inning, and controlling  myself a little bit with the help of Matheny and making some pitches and getting out of it, is only going to help my experience for the 5th game or later post-season games.  I think as the season went on, I was able to understand that sometimes when I'm out there I get emotional and it's not bad, but my adrenaline kicks in and I start trying to blow the ball by guys.  And I've come to realize if I make pitches, I can get outs even if I'm 90, 95 percent.  I'm just looking for the opportunity now. 
 
Q.  If you're pitching against a guy like Schilling, if it turns out to be that, how do you avoid trying to be too perfect with your pitches, too fine?
 
MATT MORRIS: I remember before the first game talking to Darryl Kile.  I'm up against Schilling and he can throw a lot of zeros, he can go deep in the games, throw a lot of pitches, strike out a lot of guys.  All I can match is zeros, keep the game close, hopefully keep us ahead.  But as far as matching him pitch by pitch, it's tough to do.  The guy is probably the best pitcher in the game, or one of, with Randy.  And you know, if I can put up zeros, I'm going up against their offense.  If I can stop them, you know, it would just put us in a good situation to win. 
 
Q.  If you watched the tape of your game the other day, is there any different approach that you would need to make because they have seen you?
 
MATT MORRIS: I haven't watched a game, I remember vividly all the mistakes that I did make.  I made a couple of selection mistakes, a change-up to Womack, and then I had Schilling 0-2 in a bunting situation.  I could have made better decisions for him not to get the bunt.  I don't think at this time it would decide the ball game, which it could have been.  As far as watching the tape, they might come out and be looking for curve balls, some guys that are  -- you threw a lot of breaking balls, you know, if they don't think they can hit my fastball that's running in on them, they might be sitting on curve balls.  I worked on my change-up a little more in the bullpen.  You never know what kind of stuff you're going to bring to the table.  If I can keep the ball down, no matter what pitch it is, I have a good chance. 
 
Q.  Does it make any difference to you whether you're pitching tomorrow in Game 4, or tomorrow in Arizona in Game 5?
 
MATT MORRIS: I'll be ready for both.  I would love to pitch here in Game 4, hopefully set us up for a good position in Game 5.  But it doesn't matter.  Whatever happens today, we're going to have to deal with the weather.  Let's see what happens.  And if it comes to me pitching here, it's to my benefit.  I'm comfortable pitching here, and it will put Schilling in a different environment.  I don't think he's pitched here all season, and it can only help us compared to what he did to us out there.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT