NCAA WOMEN'S 1ST AND 2ND ROUNDS: WACO
March 22, 2019
Janelle Bailey
Paris Kea
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: We're joined by North Carolina student-athletes Paris Kea and Janelle Bailey.  Questions?   
 Q.  Janelle, when you look at Cal, the person that pops off the page is Kristine Anigwe.  You've got the defensive assignment on her.  How does she compare to some of the other elite post players you've had to defend this season, Turner or Fuehring, for example?  
JANELLE BAILEY: First, she's relentless on both ends.  She works really hard, never stops.  She has a continuous motor.  It's going to be a challenge for me.  And I just have to remember the things that coaches have told me.   
I know she's top scorer, top rebounder in the country.  So just remember little things like it's not about if I get the rebounds; making sure she doesn't get it.  Because I know she's a great player.   
It's not about stopping her; it's about containing her, making it difficult for her to score the ball and get rebounds, because her team relies on her a lot.  I realize she's a great player.  She's All-American.  So it's going to be about containing her more than trying to stop her play because somebody great like that you can't really stop them.   
 Q.  Paris, as the only senior on the team, Coach Hatchell talked throughout the season how Carolina played one of the toughest schedules in the country.  Right around the midpoint of the season the win-loss record wasn't enough to get you over the hump to this tournament.  Was there ever a moment as a senior you said, we've got to kick it into another gear if we're going to qualify this year?  
PARIS KEA: Definitely.  We go into every game wanting to win, trying to get the W.  Our biggest weakness is consistency.  That's our biggest thing going into the tournament is trying to find that consistency and stick it out all the way through.   
 Q.  Clearly first time any of you all have been in the NCAA Tournament.  But the preparation that you have going through this, could you just talk about that, how it's prepared you all for that?  And do you kind of see this as almost like an ACC game?  
JANELLE BAILEY: We play in arguably the best conference in the country.  So preparation for every game in the ACC is tough.  We know it's a battle every night.  We know every ACC team we've played has great players, great coaches and people that just fill their roles.   
So we know it's like a new season to us and it's kind of like a new beginning and it's anybody's game.  Every game is anybody's game.  I could say we prepare for it like that, but we do realize this is a new season.  And we're thankful that we're here but we just kind of leave the past in the past and play one game and get this W now.   
PARIS KEA: Like I said, our biggest weakness is consistency.  So I feel like using those games that we won, use that as confidence going into the tournament.  And, I mean, the ACC is a very tough conference.  We've played some of the best teams already.  So I mean we're not afraid of anyone.   
 Q.  Janelle, when you come in here, obviously it's an NCAA Tournament, do you look around and you see all this.  Is this the kind of stuff that teams want to aspire to be in a lot of ways when you look at the championship pictures and stuff like that?  And what does it feel like when you play in a building like that?  I'm not going to ask you about them because you're not playing them?  
JANELLE BAILEY: Yeah, it's something that everyone wants to strive for, but we have stuff hanging in our arena, too.  I think most ACC championships, if I'm not mistaken, and tournament appearances and Final Fours and things like that.  So I think for us seeing this is just a way to get back on top and get back to the old Carolina and keeping the tradition going.  But we have our advantage and our (indiscernible).   
 Q.  Paris, what has the addition of Shayla brought to the team this year?  
PARIS KEA: Well, I feel like we've struggled a little bit in the point guard position.  So we're trying to maneuver and figure out everybody's role on the team.  So when I moved to the point guard and she found a lot of comfort on the wing, and I think she's very consistent where she is.  She loves it there.   
But I think the big thing she brings to us is consistency and leadership and definitely her defense.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT