U.S. MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2006
Dave Womack
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








CRAIG SMITH:  Dave, it was a long haul, but well worth the trip, right?
DAVE WOMACK:  Absolutely.  Absolutely.  Today was, you know    last night, I didn't sleep very well.  I knew it was going it be a big day.  It start with, it's a grind, it really is.  I came in here like I said earlier in the week, with the mentality of just keeping it in play, just trying to get in a match play.  And I gained just    I can see it, a lot of expectations and perks that come with this tournament, and if I could just stay patient and know if I play good, these other perks would take care of themselves and I was able to do it.  It was a great ride, it really was.  It was a super week.
Q.  A little bit of emotion hit you on the last hole, the last couple holes, I think you probably started thinking?
DAVE WOMACK:  Yeah, I did.  I was 2 up with three to go, and I did get a little ahead of myself, but I told myself, you've got it stay in the moment, stay in the present.  But it kind of settled me down.  Match play, was just take one match at a time.
Q.  The second round, specifically the 13th hole, that looked like it was a pivotal one when you hit your tee ball into the water and still managed to win that hole, what was your thought process after hitting in there?  Take me through the hole and how you experienced it.
DAVE WOMACK:  Yeah, I told Kim, my caddie, No. 12, I told him that we needed to get the tee box back.  Ryan made a clutch but there on 12 for par but we went to 13 and my whole    I knew when I crossed hazard, if I could hit it where I would have a shot, I knew I would be able to get up close to the green.  I wasn't expecting him to make a bogey because he had played solid all day.  But that was    that was a huge momentum shift for me at least on that hole.

But my thought process was when I hit, I guess it would be the third shot.  My short game, my chipping has been pretty good and I knew if I could put it there, I may have a chance to get it up and down and that worked out.  And there again, I had the tee box back on 14 and I was just trying to    I was trying to get it close to the hole but put it on the green and try to put the pressure back on it him.  But it was a battle.
CRAIG SMITH:  Your emotions on that hole must have gone from down to up to down to up.
DAVE WOMACK:  Well, I was down and then I was up and when I went it to, I was expecting him to make that birdie.  And then when I went it 16 and I hit the tee shot, I said, I could end this right here.  And when he won the hole and I'm sitting there, 110 yards from the green or whatever and he went to the hole, then I'm back down again.  I'm leading but the momentum had shifted.  It was a roller coaster ride, it really was emotional.
Q.  Born, raised, living in Georgia, you've been to the Masters as a spectator, now that you're going to be going there as a competitor
DAVE WOMACK:  It hasn't sunk in.  It's just unbelievable.  I dreamed, I mean, everybody does who plays the game.  I've always dreamed of going over there and playing.  We had joked, we have always joked    well, it would be super playing in the Masters, my mom and dad, just knew I was going to be in the Masters one day.  It's a weird feeling.  It's just, it's amazing.

But friends of mine who I worked with, they just called me and they had another friend who was in medical school over there and he caddied at Augusta while he was out of school.  So he already has him on the phone and ware trying to figure our the rental home situation when we get over there. (Laughing.)

But no, it's going to be amazing, it really is.  When that invitation comes in the mail, that's just going to be super.
Q.  Did you feel like you have a shot, something like that again, and you played obviously golf, but knew that you've got a career and whatnot, opportunities are probably minimal, this has got to seem
DAVE WOMACK:  Yeah, this is unreal.  I really, honestly could say I did not and could not possibly do that, but I just did not    I expected to stay competitive on the state level and maybe some national events, but I did not expect this.  But this is beyond comprehension really.
CRAIG SMITH:  Tell us about the folks at home, what they have been doing for you?
DAVE WOMACK:  There was a gentleman at the driving range and he went by    inaudible    and I was in the hospital, and he was so great, and he was like, "You're going to enjoy it."  And he said, "You're going to make the cut and you'll be fine."  I think that's why, that's been in my mind the whole week, and I have not had a chance to call him.

My mom, she is loving it right now.  My dad, he has so many friends with him right now, they are all sitting watching the computer all day.  The whole town, my wife, there's a whole town of Mcdonough going crazy right now.  I don't know what to expect when I get back, but you know and my brother, I just wish he was here.  Because my family, we've just been through so much, it's great.  But yeah, it's going to be so much fun when I get back.
Q.  Let's get your grandfather's name.
DAVE WOMACK:  LP McKinnen.  He had a heart condition.  He's on medication.  But he played golf for years.  And I said, he was able to come out on the Fourth of July to watch us play, nine holes over in Myrtle Beach.  And he read a putt, he actually hit a putt, so it was pretty neat.
Q.  How big is Mcdonough?
DAVE WOMACK:  The city, the county, I'm trying    maybe the whole county population is 300,000.  It is probably around 150,000.  Maybe not even that much.
Q.  With the rain and stuff, you ended up virtually playing 36 every day.  Can you imagine what an endurance test?
DAVE WOMACK:  I don't know how I did it to be honest with you.  I think it was a lot of adrenaline.  It's not    basically it's another round of golf.  It's a grind.  USGA after tests you in every way, mental aspect, physical aspect, especially weather conditions like today.  We're sitting here, we're trying to play our tail off, we're trying to go out there and just beat each other.  But we're having to deal with the rain, we're having to deal with     we're already, over 100 something holes and it's a grind, it really is.

But I think a lot of it's adrenaline.  I think when I settle down tonight, if I did, I guess my body is just going to shut down.  I haven't played this many rounds of golf back to back to back in, I can't even    I don't if I even have.
Q.  Can you talk about your putting today, obviously I do think that is something that was important, you guys halved a lot of holes with pars and you made a lot of putts.
DAVE WOMACK:  It was huge.  Starting on 9, I was up there close to birdie and I knock it five feet by and he's up there and he makes a good 2 putt and I'm sitting there like maybe I have a chance to win and now I'm thinking, I've got a chance to tie.

All of those 5  to 10 foot putts were very huge and that's    it's fun to see that, I guess the results of working on that, because we practiced the put ourselves in those situations, to make those pressure putts.  But my putting was huge.  My chipping was huge because I hit a lot of bad shots today, and I don't know what was going on with my swing, my short game.  That's what won it, my short game.
Q.  How about the last putt, which was another 5 footer, what was swirling?
DAVE WOMACK:  Well, I felt    I was just trying, once again, just trying to stay in the moment, just saying, "Dave, you practice this putt all the time.  This is what you    this is it."  And then I just, you know, just let it go and when it was about six inches, it's over.  It was    I tried the stay as calm as I can the whole day, and I don't know, once again, I don't know how I did it, because in this tournament, it's so easy the get ahead of yourself.  And I think a lot of it is fatigue.  I think a lot of it in the end was the physical aspect.  When you get tired, your mind just starts wandering.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT