HSBC WOMEN'S WORLD CHAMPIONSHIP
March 2, 2019
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Another great day today.  How are you changing your approach on what experience you've gained from the positions you've got yourself in before?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I think it's just putting myself into this position as much as I can, and being able to learn from it.
You know, I've had a couple of really good finishes this year already.  I experienced it recently, so hopefully I can take that experience into tomorrow.
Q. Is there anything in particular that you recall from what you've learnt in the past that you think, this time, I'm going to do this differently or I'm just going to stay in the moment?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I think that's it, exactly, just stay in the moment and not get ahead of myself.  I'm striking the ball well and hitting a lot of fairways.  As long as I stick to the task at hand, I'll hopefully do well.
Q. Do you think you're putting particularly well on these greens, as well?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, as I said yesterday, my putting over past couple weeks has probably been my weakness.  It's definitely improved this week, and I like the pace of these greens.  I feel a bit more comfortable with my putting stroke than I have done in previous weeks.  Again, it's good for the confidence.
Q. What would you say was the best today?  Was it the driver or the way you were plodding your way around quite a difficult course strategically?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: There were some tough pin positions out there, and actually the wind switched halfway around, so there was some holes playing completely different to what they have done in the past couple days.
You know, my ball-striking has been great and I hit 12 fairways today, so being on the fairway out here definitely helps.
Q. Can you talk me a little bit through a couple highlights of your round birdie-wise?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: A couple highlights, I birdied both the par 5s on the front nine.  Actually all the par 5s I played really well today.
I had no bogeys, so just was really steady, four birdies.
Q. What are you going to do tonight?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Not much.  Just chill.  Obviously it's my fourth week in a row, so just trying to conserve energy.
Q. And probably nothing makes you feel more energetic than being in such a good position for Sunday?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, confidence is good.  Keeping me energised.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT