SWINGING SKIRTS LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 26, 2018
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What was today like?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: It was a lot tougher today.  The pins were tougher to get at.  A lot of them were kind of really close to edges of greens.  The wind was a little bit more tricky.  I missed a couple short putts early on, but overall, you know, I hit 16 greens today, so I'm still hitting it well.
I think I much prefer to be chasing than to be leading I think.  Whenever I won a tournament or been close to the lead, maybe in college or whatever, I've always preferred to come back at the end, and it just more of -- I feel more comfortable in this position that I'm at right now, so I'm kind of happy, and I'm confident in my game.
Q. Is it just a different feeling when you're leading a tournament?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: You can be more aggressive when you're chasing.  I would prefer it that way rather than, you know, like not being aggressive I guess.
So yeah, but I hit the ball great today again.  I hit 12 fairways, 16 greens, so it can't be -- just the putts weren't dropping today.  So that's really the difference.  So hopefully tomorrow they will.
Q. Still feel happy that you were able to get under par for the day?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, definitely.  As I said, I think it was more difficult today than I think maybe the scores showed that, too.  I think the front nine, especially a lot of the pins were hard to get at.  The wind, again, was a little bit in a different direction and it was a little bit stronger than it was yesterday.
So overall, I'm happy with where I'm at.
Q. Are you seeing the golf course change a lot from day-to-day?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: No, not really.  It's still kind of soft.  The fairways are still kind of soft.
I felt like the grain on the greens were moving putts a lot more today, or maybe I was just putting it in the wrong place on the greens.  But I think the grain was having more of an effect, especially on short putts, for whatever reason, but again, maybe I was just noticing it more today.
I think it was pretty similar to yesterday.  The pin positions were just a little bit more tricky.
Q. When you struggle with your putting during a round, do you like to immediately go fix it?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I'll probably go hit a couple of short putts.  In general, I hit some good putts today.  They just weren't dropping, so I can't be too unhappy with where my putting is at.  I think only maybe a couple of shots I left out there, so I guess I'm just -- I really like where my confidence is at with my long game because it's been missing for pretty much the whole year, and I'm just enjoying knowing and trusting my swing finally.
Q. The Asian season is quite long.  Is there any special preparation for you?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I mean, I love coming to Asia.  We play on really good golf courses.  I think the fans are great.  They were great out there today.  It can be long.  I always try to get a week break in the middle, so next week is my break that I'm looking forward to.  But yeah, I think you just have to keep fighting because it is long, week-after-week.
Q. I notice that you're wearing a pink ribbon and a black ribbon.  Is there any special meaning?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: The pink ribbon, I am associated with the Breast Cancer Research Foundation, so obviously October is Breast Cancer Research Month.  So I'm just playing to raise awareness and I'm actually donating five percent of all my winnings to the Breast Cancer Research Foundation.
Then the black ribbon is for the caddie that passed away last week at Q-School.
Q. Is this only for like October?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, I carry the logo on the back of my shirt and it's on the front of my bag, too.
Q. You've been doing that for a couple years?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, it's my third year now.  Last year I did birdies, the $100 birdies.  This year I'm doing a percentage of winnings.  I'm up to just over $5,000 so far.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT