U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN
December 10, 2020
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Talk about how you played today, how you feel about it.
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Solid.  Obviously Cypress Creek is probably the hardest of the two golf courses.  I hit some solid shots.  I holed some really good par saves on the front nine, which kind of got me going, and I played the par-5s really well.  Overall, yeah, happy.
Q. I know it's still early, but how are you feeling about the position you're in right now?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, it's still early, so we'll see tomorrow.  I've still got a different golf course to play, and I'm hitting the ball well.  I'm hitting it really well off the tee, which I think is key.  You can get some funky lies out here in the rough, so yeah.
Q. Anything that you'll do to prepare for tomorrow?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I think just work on my speed a little bit on the greens.  The greens are really fast, like faster than what we're used to, so it's really important to have really good speed around here.
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Out here the greens are so big that you really need to get the pace putting down, and on the Jackrabbit the greens are a little bit smaller so it's not as key, but definitely out here.
Q. What kind of numbers did you think when you woke up this morning would be a good day?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Anything around par, yeah.  Solid day.  You know, to be in the red is -- you've got to be happy with anything in the red out here.  Tomorrow will be a little bit colder, so there will be that.  The greens will be a little wetter than when we first started.  It's hard to say what the weather is going to do, what the wind will be like early in the morning.
Q. You have Jackrabbit tomorrow.  What was your impression of that during the practice rounds?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   It's really nice.  There's a lot of character to it.  The greens are a little bit less severe than the ones out here.  Yeah, I'd probably favor that one more so, but they're both great golf courses.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT