ANA INSPIRATION
March 30, 2018
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Can you talk about your day for us?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Really solid.  I've been looking for some feel in my long game for the past couple months, and finally over the last couple days it's starting to come around.  I hit the ball really solid today, and my putts were just dropping.   
 Q.  What's your history here?  Is this a place you have a good history?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, typically I play well around here.  I really love being here.  I have so much fun out there.  You have to be a good ball striker to play good around here, and it just fits my eye and my game.  I like the whole atmosphere here.   
 Q.  If Sung Hyun hadn't taken off -- you're in the mix now, but you'd be right there.  Did you have an eye on her?  Did you see her taking off?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: No, you know what?  I try not to look at the leaderboard when I'm out there, but anything can happen in two days around here.  So I'm just going to try to keep going steady and see what happens.   
 Q.  Is there something about the conditions this year that are helping out with all the low scores?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: The conditions of the course is probably the best I've ever seen it.  The greens are like perfect, probably the best greens I've ever played on.  The weather's helping out too.  Sometimes it can get windy around here, but the past couple days it's been absolutely perfect.   
 Q.  Has your approach to majors become any more older as you hit more leaderboards and play well?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I think, obviously, majors are really important, but I come into tournaments just like any other tournament.  It's the same game, same mindset.  Just trying it play as good as I can.   
 Q.  Is your husband out here following you or is he reporting?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: No, he has to work, pay the bills.   
 Q.  Is he going to lead off the broadcast tonight?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I hope so, maybe.  We'll see.   
 Q.  What is the best part of your game right now?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Right now I think probably my driver.  I have a really good shaft.  My new TPT shaft, I'm in like the top 20 of fairways hit this year, and I've never even been close to that, so it's really helping me out.  Today the putts are just dropping.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT