RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 6, 2017
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Started the day nine back.  At what point, if any, did you start thinking about catching IK's lead?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Probably somewhere on the back nine.  But I really tried to stay away from the scoreboard.  So I have no idea where I am or like how many shots back I was.  I just tried to stay in the moment and hit as good of shots as I could at that point.
Q. So it was a course record 64.  Amazingly the third we've seen this week.  You're two back and she's on the course.  Will you watch?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I might watch the end.  IK is such a strong player and she's having a great season, so hopefully she finishes strong.
Q. What worked so well for you here at Kingsbarns this week?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I've really just been able to control my ball flight in the wind.  It helped last week at The Scottish Open with the wind and the conditions.  I've been working with David Leadbetter for a couple years now, and he's really just helped me understand my swing better and control my ball flight.  I think this week, the key was putting.  I just holed a lot of putts and I'm feeling really confident.
Q. Your husband, Adam, is a sportscaster in Orlando.  Do you think he might be leading with your highlights tonight?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Well, if he doesn't, there's going to be a problem.  I hope so.  (Laughing).
Q. You equalled the course record and had to give it something today, and you did.  You gave it everything.
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, I didn't think starting the day that I would have a shot.  IK was way ahead, and I just started out really strong.  Holed a great putt on the first hole, which I think set the tone for the day for par.  And then just my putting was really on fire.
I had a great stretch in the middle of the round to get me going.  I just saw myself at the start of the round just take the opportunities when I get them and that's what I did.
Q. There's still a lot of golf to be played, as well.  You might even be back out there.
JODI EWART SHADOFF: We'll see what happens.  IK is such a strong player, and I hope she finishes strong.
Q. How do you reflect on this week?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: It's been great.  I mean, you know, I didn't have that much confidence coming into this week, given missing the cut last week.
This week's been a great boost of confidence, and I'm excited to go to Solheim in a couple weeks and play there.
Q. It has been a great couple of years for you.  How big is this week in sort of keeping momentum going and propelling you to even the next level?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I mean, it's huge.  I knew coming down the stretch that I was somewhere in the vicinity of a win, and I just need to put myself into that position more often.  That's what I've been doing, and hopefully, you know, in the next few weeks, I'll finally get a win.
Q. Huge confidence going into the Solheim Cup which is another big bonus.
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yes, absolutely.  We're back in the US this year and hopefully take the trophy back.
Q. Clubhouse leader.
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, it was good.  I made a great par putt on the first hole and I think that really just set the day -- set the tone for the day.  Just a stretch of five holes in the middle.  I told myself early, you have to take the opportunities when you get them because you never know what the weather is going to do.
You know, the last five holes are the toughest on the golf course, so you never know what can happen there.  That's what I did, and I just stuck it out till the end.
Q. When you went off this afternoon, were you thinking you needed to post a score to try and win or were you trying to see how high you could finish?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Honestly, I didn't think I had a shot.  IK is so far ahead and she's been playing so good recently, so I was just trying to finish as high up as I can.  Get a low number and get a top finish.
Q. At what stage did that mind-set change?  Was it birdie one, two, three, four or five in that run you went on?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I think when we turned around 9, 10, I knew that I could make a push.  I tried to actually stay away from the scoreboards and not look at them.  I didn't really know where I was.  We'll see what happens.
Q. Turning to the Solheim Cup, I've just spoken to Michelle Wie and she says she's a good friend of yours.  You've equalled her course record at Kingsbarns and you've beaten her in a major.  That's pretty good going into a Solheim Cup.
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, the Solheim is always a very competitive week.  I have some great friends on the American Team, but everybody knows, we're all playing for our continent.  Everybody has that respect for each other, as golfers and as people.
Q. Going into a slightly different format, how important is a week like you've had?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Oh, very important.  I missed the cut last week at The Scottish Open, so I wasn't -- my confidence wasn't that high coming into this week.  So it's been a huge shift of confidence for me, and I'm excited to go play match play, actually.  I really love match play.  I love being in a team environment.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT