PELICAN WOMEN'S CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2020
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. One of the top rounds of the week.  How did it feel to put that together?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, got off to a really hot start on what was my front nine, on the back nine.  I birdied some of the hardest holes on the course, so that was nice, holing some really long putts.
But yeah, it was fun out there today.  The conditions are a little bit easier with the wind not blowing as hard.  Yeah.
Q. Is there a nine that maybe particularly stood out as a little more difficult than the other this week?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I would have said probably the back nine, but they're very -- they're almost very equal.  Really just depends on where the pin locations are, I think.  You know, and where the tee boxes are.  There are some really long par-4s out there and they took the pins away, it can be really difficult, I think.
Overall probably the back nine.
Q. How is the back holding up?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Good.  Yeah, no, I made it through the week.  That was the main goal.
Q. No worries moving forward?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   No.  Should be good to go in Dallas and play three in a row hopefully.
Q. I see you and Holly are good friends, but how is it continuing to mesh out here?  How is it working?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   It's been great.  Holly is an amazing green reader.  She's like unreal.  I usually just let her read the greens and just hit it where she tells me too.
Really worked it today, holed some great putts, and it was all thanks to her.
We have so much fun out there.  We have known each other for probably 15 to 17 years, so it's great to have a really good frowned out there you can just have a laugh with and have some fun.
Q. Absolutely.  Last one I got:  What do you got for Thanksgiving plans?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Just staying home.  Holly is going to come over and just obviously with COVID and everything we can't do any traveling, see family or anything.
But, yeah, just going to stay home in Orlando.
Q. Just practice?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yep.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT