RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2017
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  70 today, good bogey safe at 17.  How important is it to grind out bogey sometimes here and avoid the bigger numbers?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: It's very important.  The conditions were not the easiest out there today.  There was a little shift in the wind from yesterday.   
But yeah, 17 could have very easily turned into a nightmare for me.  So yeah, just tried to stay patient and control my emotions a little bit, though, and managed to hole a nice putt for bogey.   
 Q.  We're used to seeing you play on the LPGA Tour, the British crowds aren't used to seeing you play back home.  What is it like to play in the Women's British Open?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: It's great every year, to come and have family watch is amazing.  Historically I've never played well around links golf.  Apart from last year, this is my second cut at the British Open made and first round in links golf.   
 Q.  How do you feel about the way you're playing?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Solid.  The conditions haven't been the easiest, especially yesterday afternoon and this morning, the wind was a little bit of a struggle at times.   
It's very important to grind.  I holed some great putts today and I'm really happy with where I am going into the weekend.   
 Q.  You certainly look like you're enjoying the course here at Kingsbarns.  How well does it suit you?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I love it.  Historically I've not played well around links golf in previous British Opens.  I think now I'm able to flight the ball down a little bit and control my golf shots.  I love this golf course.  The views are amazing.   
 Q.  British Open, maybe not so much, but in terms of other major, being at the top end of leaderboards, not a new thing for you.  How comfortable do you feel around a links golf course and fighting for that wind?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I'm hitting the ball really well right now.  A couple things clicked at the start of this week and I've got some confidence with my putting, you know, I have been in this position before, especially at majors, so I'm just going to try to use that for this weekend.   
 Q.  A couple of big weeks with the Solheim, and Annika is here and she's watching.  Is that in the back of your mind?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Obviously my No. 1 goal coming into this year is to make Solheim Cup team.  I've played wonderful and it's an amazing experience, so I want to be on that team.   
But you know, I have to keep my mind in this week and make sure I finish strong this weekend.   
 Q.  A round of 70, two shots off going into the weekend as it stands.  You must be pretty happy with that.  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, I'm very happy.  I didn't play that well last week around Dundonald.  A couple of things clicked with my swing and I've holed some great putts this week.  So that's some nice confidence with my putting stroke.   
But I love this golf course.  It sets up really nice for me, and I'm just going to try and keep doing what I've been doing over the last couple days this weekend.   
 Q.  You don't get a great deal of time between the Scottish Open and this.  What did you work on specifically to try and change to make sure you were in good form coming in?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I was just trying to go back to basics and try and get a couple of older swing thoughts that have worked in the past.  One clicked and, and I just have a lot of confidence in my tee shots and my ball-striking, a lot with my putting.  My putting has never really been a strength for me, but I've holed some nice ones today and yesterday.   
 Q.  I always like to check in with the guys carrying the scoring symbol as they follow you around, and they said today, you played brilliant, hit the ball brilliant all day, 17, shocking.  Talk us through what happened with that bogey.  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I was stuck between an 8 and a 9.  You know, kind of don't want to be short, though, so I went with an 8 and tried to cut a little bit off of it and just mis-hit it completely.   
 Q.  You dropped it in the burn just short of the green?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, in hindsight, maybe I should have just swung hard with a 9-iron but what's done is done.  I was really happy to come away with just a bogey there.  That could have easily turned into a night, mayor, so greened it out.   
 Q.  Are bogey saves like that equally as important perhaps as birdies early in the round?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, absolutely.  You can make big numbers around here, especially with the wind, and yeah, there's some strategically-placed bunkers, as well.  They are just as important as making birdies, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT