FUBON LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 8, 2016
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So many congratulations.  What a difference a couple of days makes from your opening round; 16 shots better.
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I know, I mean, the weather is completely different than it was two days ago, but I am hitting the ball so much better off the tee.  I think that was really what made the difference.  Hit 13 fairways today.
I think around here if you can get the ball in the fairway you have a good shot of having a good round.  Basically that's what happened today.
Q. You finished on the 9th.  Were you a fraction nervous?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, I was a little bit pumped, I think.  I knew what I was scoring, so I think that played in a little bit.  I had a cheeky little downhill putt, so I didn't want to race it past.
Overall really, really happy with where my game is right now.
Q. You've catapulted up the leaderboard.  Looking great for tomorrow.  Is this the lowest round you've ever had in tournament play?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yes, by three shots actually.
Q. You're playing this weekend looking to raise awareness for breast cancer research.  Tell us a little bit about that.
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Well, as you know, October is breast cancer research month.  I'm just very fortunate to be partnered with my sponsors Radar Tires and Omni United and the Breast Cancer Research Foundation.
You know, if people can see me out here just raising awareness, and if I can help save one life, that would just make the difference and we'll have succeeded in our mission.
I've got a pink golf bag and I am wearing pink every day this month.
Q. Are you going to go write everything down that you did before you round today, like what you ate for breakfast ans stuff like that?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, exactly.  No, I mean, as I said, I got the ball in the fairway today.  Just a lot of putts went in.  I just felt really comfortable.
So, yeah, just hopefully do the same thing tomorrow.
Q. Lowest score in a tournament.  Have you ever scored lower?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I've had 11-under before, so 61.
Q. Yeah.  What was the difference, do you think?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Today it was getting the ball in the fairway.  The rough out here is so thick that it's really hard to get spin from the rough.  It's tough even chipping from around the greens if you don't get the ball in the greens.
So I was just in the fairway.  I think I hit 13 fairways today, so that was definitely the difference.
Just overall hitting the ball closer to the pin; giving myself more opportunities.
Q. How did you feel today versus Thursday?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: A lot happier.  (Laughter.)  Definitely.  Yeah I was very frustrated.  I think the weather played a huge part in today.
Obviously there was no wind, and that's the difference around here.  I mean, there was hardly a breath of wind today, and the course just plays so differently.
To be able to take advantage of it is pretty good.
Q. Now you're back in the thick of things, in contention.
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah.
Q. So you try to throw another 62 out there tomorrow?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I mean, I'll try.  I think these rounds come by very rarely, but, yeah, I'll just keep doing what I've been doing.  Yeah, just keep doing it.
Q. You said you hit 13 fairways.  Did you miss any greens?
JODI EWART SHADOFF: I think maybe one.  That was just like off the green, so nothing too stressful in terms of greens in reg.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT