SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 10, 2014
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Jodi, how was it out there today?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Hot. 

Q.   Yeah. 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   No, it was very steady.   A whole a lot of fun.   Had a real great group wit Aria and Chella. 
So, you know, just holing a lot of putts and hitting the ball well.   I've hit 15 and 16 greens the past couple days, so ball‑striking is pretty solid.   Nice to see some putts fall in today.

Q.   You talked about it being hot.   It got progressively hotter and kind of sat on you throughout the day.   How does that affect you?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, there are some holes out there, especially on the back nine where it can really creep up on you.   You really got to make sure you hydrate in as much as you can every hole, and even more so making sure you eat.
It's so hard to eat out here, but you got to keep your energy up.

Q.   What are the snacks you have had out here? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I had a couple protein bars and a banana.   Even though it's not much, it's still something.

Q.   You played well.   How do you carry that momentum into tomorrow? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   You know, stick with the same swing, same game plan around the golf course.   I'm happy with where my game is.   I'm putting really consistently now, which has always been a pretty big thing for my game.

Q.   What do you attribute that to?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Well, I just started working with David Leadbetter about four months ago, and it's really helped both my swing and my short game.
I really can see massive improvements.   I shot 7‑under in Alabama and 5‑under in France, so really starting to o see some low scores come out, which is nice.

Q.   How often are you meeting with David or talking to him?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I try to talk‑‑ well, I mean, he lives in Bradenton, which is right by me.   When I'm home I try to see him at least once a week.   He travels a lot to the majors, so I see him out there.   I actually see him quite a lot. 
If anything goes wrong‑‑ I wasn't hitting the ball at the start of week, so sent him a couple swing videos and he told me a couple things to work on.

Q.   Beginning of this week?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah.   It's nice.   He knows my swing. 
As I said, putting has always been pretty average for the tour.   I'm really starting to see only good things come of it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT