KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2014
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Okay.   We're here with Jodi after round one at the Kia Classic.   Jodi, how did your round go today?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   It was pretty steady.   I hit like 17 or 18 greens, so that helped definitely.   
Just got a new putter in the bag this week, and it holed three or four good putts.   And yeah, just steady.   Didn't really make any mistakes, so I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Now, with the new putter, what has been the big difference, the noticeable difference for you?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I think the short putts, the putts within six feet.   I don't think I missed anything within six feet today, so it's definitely very noticeable with the short putts, so it's nice to see, gives me a lot of confidence.  
   
 Q.   And what are the specifics on that club?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Actually, it's the same putter as what I was putting with.   It's just a different setup and different length.   So you know, I got in at the TaylorMade factory on Monday and got my putter set to the way it should be, and it's paying off, I think.  
   
 Q.   Now, take us through 18.   You birdied that hole.   Some players have been saying that's a tough one to finish on or to play in general.   Kind of take us through that hole if you don't mind.   
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah.   It's definitely playing the toughest hole on the golf course today.   You know, you can't really for the longer hitters, you can't really hit driver off the tee and then when you're hitting 3‑woods, you're still coming in with like 6‑irons, so it's tough.   
You know, I just played safe, into the middle of the green.   The pin was tucked on the left side, and just sneaked in the side door of the hole.   So it was nice to finish.   You know, I parred every hole on the back nine up until then.   So it was nice, nice bonus.  
   
 Q.   And you talked about playing it safe and finishing strong.   Is that your plan for tomorrow, to continue to play it safe and also finishing so strong, how do you feel going into tomorrow?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I feel good.   I really didn't make any my takes out there.   I feel solid.   Obviously, you know, I hit 17, 18 greens today, so long game is good.   I hit 13 fairways, I think.   So just to keep up, you know, keep the momentum going and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT