THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 17, 2013
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
Caroline Hedwall
Charley Hull
Caroline Masson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   I would like to welcome Caroline Hedwall, Jodi Ewart Shadoff, Charley Hull and Caroline Masson, who all won their matches today.   Part of an amazing afternoon for Europe.   A clean sweep and a five point lead going into the final day.   How does it feel? 
CHARLEY HULL:   Feels pretty awesome.   I second that.
THE MODERATOR:   And Caroline, what a fantastic tournament for you so far. 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   It's just been great fun and I played with great partners.   With Anna in the morning, and then Caroline in the afternoon and we played great golf.   So it's been incredible. 
THE MODERATOR:   And obviously, could you have dreamed for a better debut in the Solheim Cup both of you?   Caroline to start. 
CAROLINE MASSON:   I don't think so.   I got a point yesterday, got the half point this morning, which kind of felt like one hole point, and then another point this afternoon. 
So just a great start.   And everyone's playing so well, it's been amazing and we're really pumped right now.   We got to focus on tomorrow, but right now it feels pretty good. 
THE MODERATOR:   Take some questions, please. 

Q.   Jodi, can you talk us through your shots at the last. 
JODI EWART:   On the last?   Well, I had a pretty huge drive there.   I think I was a little pumped up.   I just told myself on the tee to get a good tempo because sometimes when you're nervous, you tend to swing it a little fast.   And then I had like 152 to the pin, and I knew that I was still pumped up, so I went with the lower club.   And just the idea was to get it on the green and try to force them to make birdie.   And I hit a great shot and I couldn't have asked for anything better, really. 

Q.   Charley and Jodi, what was your mindset going into this afternoon?   Yesterday you both of you, you had the best day in your rookie matches, and today you were in the first match against a good, good opponent.   So what was your mind set going into it? 
CHARLEY HULL:   I don't know.   I just went to it and just played golf.   Just like normal.   We started with an opening birdie, which was good.   And then me and Jodi made quite a few birdies on the way around.   I think she made four and I made six.   And we just kind of nearly birdied about every hole in that match, like between the whole four‑ball.   So it was awesome. 
JODI EWART:   Yeah, some of the best golf I've ever been a part of today was played in that group.   It was hard to pick a winner.   But we had a good strategy, and Charley's aggressive player and I tend to just be middle of the fairway, middle of the green, that type of player.   And I teed off first on all the holes and just to get us in play, and then that allowed Charley to play her normal game and be aggressive and it worked out really well. 

Q.   Charley, can you take us through your shot on 17 after Lexi had hit it in there close, and then when she missed, you made your putt.   Your reaction and everything that went on on that hole. 
CHARLEY HULL:   Yeah, well it was a tricky little pin, to be honest, to get it as close as we did.   And she hit it close and I think because we are both young, we had no fear, so we just went straight at the pin.   And I just hit a good shot and then when it was in the air it looked like it was going in.   It rolled to about four feet left. 
Lexi hit it about eight feet, six feet away.   And it was a tricky putt that she had and it just didn't break.   And then I was actually pretty nervous on that putt, to be honest.   And I holed it.   And it was just really a good feeling.   Yeah, I liked it. 

Q.   What happened at the 7th hole with the putt conceded.   Could you talk us through that? 
JODI EWART:   Well, Paula chipped it up close.   I had already, I hit it to about two inches, and our birdie was conceded.   And there was a lot of, a bit of, we both didn't know what was really going on.   Her ball was in Lexi's line, so they decided that Paula was going to putt out, even though I had already made birdie.   And we kind of were really unsure about what the rule was about playing out, when we had already made birdie and stuff. 
And by that time ‑‑ at the end of the day, they still, they made the putt and there's nothing really else to say about it. 

Q.   For Miss Hedwall, you're 4‑0.   Could you have imagined going 4‑0 and you're going to play in all five matches.   How does that feel? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, it feels great to win, obviously.   I'm a really bad loser, so I just need to keep on winning.   I would be pretty pissed otherwise.   But, no, it's been a great two days so far and I'm just enjoying it.   It will be fun to play the singles tomorrow as well. 

Q.   Caroline, can each of you say which would be your dream opponent for tomorrow? 
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I don't know, there's so many you want to beat, you know.   Well probably Paula Creamer or Cristie Kerr. 
JODI EWART:   Again, you want to beat everyone, so whoever I get I want to beat.   So at the end of the day it really doesn't matter who I draw. 
CHARLEY HULL:   All of them.   I don't know. 
CAROLINE MASSON:   Yeah, I think that obviously you want to, if you can beat one of the, one of their top players, like Paula or Cristie, or Angela maybe, that would be huge.   But we just got to take whatever comes tomorrow.   So whoever we get, I guess we're all going to be focused and we all want to get our points, so it doesn't matter who it is, we just have to play really well and get as many points as possible tomorrow. 
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you for joining us.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT