THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 17, 2013
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
Charley Hull
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That was flat out unbelievable.   Charley, you're the youngest player ever to win a Solheim Cup point.   Describe how you're feeling right now.   
CHARLEY HULL:   Feels very good.   I don't really feel like I get that nervous on the first tee, which is pretty good.   
But we both played pretty well.   I made six birdies and I think Jodi made four.   So I think we made a really good team.  
   
 Q.   Pretty well is a bit of an understatement.   It was an incredible match to watch.   What was it like to be a part of it?   
JODI EWART:   Both teams played really well.   We birdied pretty much every hole, so it was a great match to be a part of.   It was nice to get a point on the board for Europe.   
   
 Q.   There's always a crucial shot or turning point.   Your tee shot on 17, Charley, what's going through your mind as that's going through the air, because obviously they had knocked one in really close.   
CHARLEY HULL:   Well, I never had a hole‑in‑one before.   So I thought when it pitched on the ground, I thought, well, this could be my chance to get one.   But it rolled up to about four feet.   And then I was quite nervous over that 4‑footer, 6 you about then I rolled it in.   It was just great.   
   
 Q.   Speaking of nerves, how much pressure were you feeling on the second shot at the last, because it was then in your hands.   
JODI EWART:   Absolutely.   I've been there before and I just kind of used the experience to kind of judge what iron to hit, and the wind and everything.   So I made some good decisions out there and I'm really happy.   
   
 Q.   You've just given your father the best birthday present he's ever had.   
CHARLEY HULL:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   I've seen quite a lot of golf in my time, but the standard of golf there was just outstanding, wasn't it?   
JODI EWART:   Both teams were making birdies practically every hole.   So it was really cool to be a part of it.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it's unusual you two being put together, two rookies?   
JODI EWART:   No, I think we have very different games.   Charley is pretty aggressive and I'm down the middle, on the green, so it was a great pairing for me.   I could tee off first on the hole and Charley could go ahead and be aggressive, and it just worked out really well.   
   
 Q.   It certainly did.   And Charley, we just can't believe you're 17 years old.   When Lexi Thompson hit that shot into 17 and then you came through and birdied that.   
CHARLEY HULL:   Well, that was a really good shot.   It was amazing because in the air I thought, that's got a good chance of getting in the hole.   I never had a hole‑in‑one before.   But, I don't know, probably because we're young, we don't have much fear.   
   
 Q.   Well, I tell you what, it is your dad's birthday today and I'm sure you've given him the best birthday present he could ever have.   
CHARLEY HULL:   Thank you.   
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
CHARLEY HULL:   When you get nervous you tend to swing a little fast.   So I took a nice easy swing and I managed to get 10 yards more out of it than I usually do, so it really made the hole.   I only had 9‑iron in when the hole is as long as it is.   So it was a huge advantage for me to be up there.   
   
 Q.   What does it mean to this team that you guys, your team in this position, with Anna, Suzann and Catriona, cheering you on.   
CHARLEY HULL:   Well, it was a very surreal experience, actually.   And two rookies together, nobody expects us to win, but we played so well, we really did.   Both teams did.   It would have been hard to pick a winner out of it, because we were birdieing pretty much every hole.   
   
 Q.   You guys went out in 30.   
JODI EWART:   I don't know, I don't really keep count, but I know that birdies were having to win every hole.   So this was not a kind of course where a birdie usually wins, it's usually a par, so I know it was a great standard of golf and I'm really happy.   
   
 Q.   A lot of different little rumors, reports on what happened on 7.   What did happen?   Did you try to concede or what?   
JODI EWART:   Well I had made three, I hit it to a couple of inches already, and Paula chipped up, and Paula's ball was in the line of Lexi's putt, so they wanted to putt it and to be honest, I wasn't involved in anything, so I can't comment.   I really can't.   It was out of me and Charley's hands, and in the end Lexi holed the putt.   So nothing really matters, so it's nothing else to say on that.   
   
 Q.   Change any of the emotions of the match at all?   
JODI EWART:   Well, maybe going to 8, but I holed a good putt on 8 for birdie.   So I think that that settled us all down.   
   
 Q.   Jodi, was there any moment out there where Charley seemed like a 17 year old?   
JODI EWART:   No, not at all.   She's so fearless and she's just‑‑ she says that she doesn't really get nervous on the first tee.   I was, I could barely stand up.  
(Laughter.)  
And, no, she's a great golfer.   She strikes the ball great and she holes a lot of match‑turning putts.   And both of us made a huge amount of birdies.   And Paula and Lexi played great too, and it was‑‑ it would have been hard to pick a winner out of that match.  
But I think we played really intelligently around this golf course.   We had a strategy, because Lexi tends to be‑‑ I mean Charley tends to be a more aggressive player, and I tend to be just knock it down the middle, knock it on the green and usually I can 2‑putt every hole.   So just I was teeing off first to get it in the fairway and then she could go ahead and be aggressive and it just allowed her to play her regular game and I managed to get some birdies out of it too.   
   
 Q.   She sounded maybe 14 instead of 17 back there.   
JODI EWART:   No, not at all.   She seems like she's been doing this for a very long time.   The whole emotions and importance of the Solheim Cup really doesn't seem to phase her at all.  
   
 Q.   (No Microphone.)  
JODI EWART:   It had to be, both Lexi and Paula hit some good shots in there and Lexi was only six feet away, so, yeah, we both had to be aggressive.   
   
 Q.   I mean at 17 years old being as fearless.   
JODI EWART:   Oh, 17 years old?   Oh, God.   I can't even imagine being here being 17.   No, I really can't.   I can only just manage it being 25.   
(Laughter.)   I've had a lot of experience.   
(Laughter.)  
   
 Q.   You say that you played in the NCAA in team games.   
JODI EWART:   It's different being an individual and playing yourself, but the pressure that you feel from playing for your teammates and playing for your whole continent is just a whole different level.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT