MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 21, 2013
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. This set you up for two weeks from now?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, it's a huge confidence boost.   I'm hitting the ball great finally; putts are dropping in.   I can't wait to get out there.   It's my home major, with my ties to Ricoh too, it's going to be special at St. Andrews.  
   
 Q.   Where is the belly putter now?   Did you bring it with you?   
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Well, yeah.   It's going to be in the garage when I get home forever, I hope.  
   
 Q.   We were talking the other day about Solheim Cup.   Do you feel like you could make a statement?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, absolutely.   I'm playing well right now.   Anything can happen.   I'm just keeping my fingers crossed, and hopefully I'll be in Colorado in a couple weeks.   
   
 Q.   You were talking about the putter, when exactly did you make that switch again?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   The start of this week.   (Laughter.)   Yeah, on Tuesday.   
   
 Q.   Was the belly putter just failing you?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yep.   Well, I mean, last week in Canada, you know, I hit a lot of greens.   I was hitting 15, 16 greens a round and a couple rounds had 35 and 36 putts.   So really get any worse than that I told myself.  
So it was just like I been working on the switch for maybe a month or so now.   It just felt like the right time.  
   
 Q.   When was the last time you used a traditional putter in a competitive tournament?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Like October of 2011.  
   
 Q.   What happened that made you switch to the belly putter?   
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I was having rounds like 37, 38 putts.   It was at a time when the belly putter was really starting to come in.   I thought I would give it a try.   I tried it and liked it straightaway.  
First year I saw it was pretty good for me and helped my confidence a lot.   But the last maybe six or seven months it's kind of been not ruining my stroke, but it's not been consistent.   It makes you take it pretty inside and push it out, so...  
   
 Q.   That's a pretty bold move to switch in the middle of the season, right?   Don't most golfers wait until the end of the season or the off‑season?   
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I was going to wait until this off‑season, but it became so frustrating least week.   I finished at 9‑under last week.   Obviously the scores were so low.   I gave myself so many opportunities, and it was just really frustrating.   I just couldn't take it any longer.  
   
 Q.   With that switch I remember you finished runner‑up; you're now third.   It's not like the putter change...   
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I was nervous switching.   I kind of made it out to be more of a big deal than it should have really been.   It wasn't a big deal for me.   It was just the short putts that I was kind of worried about.  
But it's been good.   Now my tempo is good.   Finally getting my putter on plane.   
   
 Q.   When you look at how you've played over the past few weeks ‑ and I know last week in Canada wasn't exactly great‑ but when you look at your position at the Women's Open...  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I mean, I played well last week.   I just wasn't holing any putts.   I was still hitting 15, 16 greens a round, so I'm striking the ball well.   Hitting a lot of good tee shots.   
So it's a big confidence boost and excited to get out to St. Andrews.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT