U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 29, 2013
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was it like having to come back so early and having to play 21 holes today under these conditions? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I think the most difficult part was waking up at 4:30 to be honest.   I'm not really a morning person.   But I played the first three holes pretty good, and I went back home and took a nap, so I felt a little bit more refreshed when I came back out.

Q.   About five hours in between? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, like three‑and‑a‑half, four hours.

Q.   What was your anticipation of what it would be like to be in the final group today? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I'm not sure, really.   I'd be lying if I said I wasn't nervous on the first tee, but the first couple holes just steadied me down, and I actually had a lot of fun out there, so it was good.   It was a good experience.

Q.   How did you feel when everybody else is crashing and burning out there, you were pretty much step for step with Inbee most of the way? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I kept looking at the leaderboard every once in a while and seeing that everybody else was struggling a little bit, and they lengthened the course by a pretty good distance, so it was playing a lot tougher today.   I just tried to stay with her and kind of had a little meltdown at the end, but I'm excited for tomorrow.

Q.   It seems she opens the door a little bit, and it seems like she slams it shut again. 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   You always have to expect that she's going to hole every putt because most of the time she does.

Q.   She had a stretch of three straight bogeys and you had two, but you gained on her there.   Did you feel like if you could just creep a little closer you could give yourself a shot? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, definitely.   I felt like I was in a good position right there.   I think I had a good birdie chance on 15 and just misread.   So I kind of shot myself in the foot a little bit there.

Q.   The three‑putt at 16, can you explain that?   Does that kind of carry over mentally to the tee shot at 17? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I mean, I hit my tee shot on 16 really well, but that pin position right there was probably the toughest one that you could have on the hole so it's tough to get at.   That putt coming down there was superfast.   I didn't see it being that fast.   Yeah, I was a little bit disappointed on the 17th tee, but nothing‑‑ I just missed straight to my tee shot on 17.   Not really anything to do with any mental issues, really.

Q.   But you had a good experience at contending at Kraft Nabisco early on.   How did that help in terms of coming in in this major championship? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, it definitely helped.   I mean, I was up there at the Kraft this year and the Kia last year, so all of this is great experience for me.   It's what I need to be able to win in the future.   You know, to pull through.   It's mentally tough when you're out in the lead and just trying to stay strong and go after it instead of being defensive.

Q.   Do you just have to be aggressive tomorrow? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, absolutely.   There is nothing to lose for me.

Q.   How does this experience prepare you for the same group tomorrow, and do you go out kind of thinking, you know, with these conditions even Inbee could make mistakes? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, anything can happen on the back nine of a major championship.   I'm not sure if they're going to do three balls or two balls tomorrow.   So I might be in the second to last group, which might be a good thing for me to be out of the way of all of the‑‑ you know, so... 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT