U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Birdied the last; is that right? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah.

Q.   Good finish.   Tell us about the way you played today?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   (Indiscernible) I bogeyed‑‑ doubled 11 and bogeyed 12, so I was 3‑over after three.   But after that I kind of made a couple pars and then started to get into it on the back nine which was actually the front nine.   I made five birdies on the front nine, so I started to hit the ball really good and gave myself a lot of chances, so it was good.

Q.   Five threes on the front nine?   I was just going to ask you what is the main defense of this golf course?   But if you're making birdies, there is not as much defenses?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, you've got to hit it in the right places on the greens just to give yourself the opportunity, really.   I had a lot more putts that could have gone in.   But I'm happy with the way I'm playing right now, so...

Q.   How many did you leave out there, do you think? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Probably two or three.

Q.   Any time you're under par in the U.S. Open, I would think that's good? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Definitely.   I told myself this week that par is good on every hole, so a birdie is a bonus.

Q.   Little bit of an easier set‑up today than what you guys have seen perhaps?   Did you play any of these tees during practice? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Well, yeah, that's what we started to notice after three or four holes.   They moved a lot of the tees further up.   So I was changing a lot of the clubs off the tee.   I was hitting more 3‑woods than I had done in practice, so it kind of changed some of the way the holes were playing. 
So it was a little bit different, but, I mean, not necessarily making the course play any easier.   It was just different tee shots.

Q.   I think it's relatively easier, but not easy by any stretch, is it?   Not at all?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Right.

Q.   Especially when you see Michelle Wie started with an 8 on the 10th hole.   You can get in trouble pretty easy here too.   You really do have to sort of keep yourself together. 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Right.   We said on 10 it was all of a sudden how many is it to that bunker?   In the practice round you had never really seen that bunker because it had never come into play.   Yeah, it was, again, moving the tees up wasn't making it play necessarily easier; it was just very different.

Q.   Were you happy with your game coming in here? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I mean, the back nine‑‑ well, coming into the tournament, I had actually missed a couple of cuts, the first two cuts of the year, so I was mentally not all there.   But I think I turned a corner a couple days ago with my swing, and that's what's been my weakness the last couple of weeks.   So it's nice to finally get it going again.

Q.   What was the thing that you turned around?   What was the problem and how did you fix it? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Just ball striking, going every direction possible.   So it was really frustrating the last two weeks have been frustrating.   I sent video back home to my coach and spent a good couple hours on the range last week and this week, and it finally clicked yesterday.

Q.   Was it ball position?   Was it alignment? 
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   It was just timing.   My swing is very timing based so finally got into a good rhythm today.

Q.   Good timing on having your timing back?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, exactly. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT