KRAFT NABISCO CHAMPIONSHIP
April 4, 2013
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Thoughts on your first round?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I just played really consistently, got into a really good birdie train in the middle of my round, which was nice.   I was just hitting a lot of greens and making putts, so I'm happy with how I'm playing and excited to get out there tomorrow morning.  
   
 Q.   You made a couple of crucial pars coming in, as well, to sort of keep it together?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, the last three holes the wind picked up quite a bit in the last 20 minutes or so.   Yeah, the last three were pretty difficult, but I'm happy.  
   
 Q.   Did you ever sense something like this was coming for you?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I've been playing really consistently the last three or four tournaments, and so I knew‑‑ like my game is right there, and I knew I was due to have a really good round.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about 18.   You hit your tee shot right, kind of chipped out.   How far did you have for your third shot?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   It was 187 into the wind.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any second thoughts about what to do with your second shot there at all?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Those two options I had, it was to go‑‑ like punch fade it around the tree left or to try and punch it right around the tree.   But there was that bunker.   I had to like punch it but try to keep it over the bunker at the same time.   I just took the safer route and played out.  
   
 Q.   When you got to the course this morning did you have any feeling that you might be tied for the lead in the first round of a major at the end of the day?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I wouldn't quite say that, but I've been playing really good, and yesterday I wasn't hitting my driver that good, so I didn't think I was going to shoot that low.   But I holed some great putts, and my putting has really come a long way in the past couple months.  
   
 Q.   We read on LPGA.com that your parents are involved with horses.   Do they still do that?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, my dad does, yeah.  
   
 Q.   You just never got into‑‑  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   No, I think I had like a traumatic experience at some point where I nearly got thrown off a horse, so it never really interested me, and I was always interested in playing soccer a lot, and then I got into golf.   Never got into horses.  
   
 Q.   You're a newlywed.   I saw on Twitter, but I'm sure Adam is excited to talk to you today?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Oh, God, yeah.   I'm excited to talk to him, too.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT