MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 8, 2020
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Jodi, I know that you just got off practicing on the putting green.  You called your coach.  What were some of the things that he had to say?  What were you working on just then?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Just really working on the flow of the putting stroke.  I tend to get a little bit tense when I feel a little bit under pressure, which I felt on the front nine today.
So back nine I rolled the ball pretty well.  I just got really unlucky today and the putts just didn't drop.  A little bit of a different story today than yesterday, but I will just try and go out there tomorrow and hole them.
Q. How nice is it to be able to call coach David Leadbetter and have him help you on a moment's notice like this?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, it's nice.  I mean, he's always there to help whenever I need him.  I really appreciate all of his help.  Just call him up, FaceTime on the putting green, and get a mini lesson right before the final round.  It's nice to have that definitely.
Q. Sometimes you need it.
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah.
Q. Sometimes just to feel like you can get in your groove again.  With that, I know you had such a low day yesterday, but how important is it to just stay focused on yourself when you're out there and maybe the putts aren't falling?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I mean, like I still hit the ball really well today off the tee and into the greens and obviously the putts just weren't dropping.
It does get frustrating, but you just kind of have to stay patient.  That's what I was trying to do out there.  I could have let it get away from me today.  I just hung in there.
Q. We've talked about your partnership with your friend on the bag all week.  When things might not be going the way you want them to, how special and how comforting is it to have a friend like her on the bag?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, obviously today wasn't the best day.  She just, Holly helps keep me light.  Jokes are flowing and keeps me laughing, which is always good.  Obviously it helps me stay patient and stay in it, just kind of take one shot at a time and let the bad holes go.
Q. This is the second week in a row we're talking about being close to in contention here.  What does that say for your confidence level, where the state of your game is right now?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I mean, obviously I said yesterday going into last week I didn't really have any expectations.  Now I have a lot of confidence in my long game, in my ball striking.  You know, if I can get that confidence in my putting like I did yesterday I'll be rolling.
So, yeah, I'm excited to go to Scotland for the next couple weeks and obviously play the British Open again.
Q. The golf gods aren't going to let you go 8-under par every single round.
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, you know, you can't expect that every day, but it was kind of a tale of two days compared to yesterday.
So it's frustrating, like I said, but hopefully tomorrow it will be different and I can have another day like I did yesterday.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT