MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 6, 2020
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. All right, so first, off you got week two of the partnership going here.  How is it going going into the second week?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Good.  Pretty much picked up where we left off.  Another good round today.  The course, perfect conditions this morning, so...
Yeah, seems like the wind is picking up a little bit, but pretty happy with the start.
Q. Definitely a different experience than Inverness.  What was it like mentally preparing for a totally new course?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I mean, this course is in no way like easier, but like the fairways just seem twice as big compared to Inverness and the greens seem twice as big.
You can breathe a little bit I think compared to Inverness.  To start, Inverness was a really good test of where my game is and how I'm playing, so it just gave my a lot of confidence coming into this week.  Highland Meadows is somewhere that I've played well before, so I was looking forward to coming back.
Q. Just after what you were able to do at Inverness, being in the final grouping as well as just the confidence you must've gotten from being able to battle it out, not only that course, but in those conditions.
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I mean, it was really hard to say where my game was at.  We haven't played in five, six months.
The whole week just gave me a lot of confidence.  You know, to be in the final group on the final day, all you can do is learn really from what happens.  Just take in that experience and that result into this week, and just trying to keep going from where I left off really.
Q. Talking to a few players as well.  This tournament is kind of known for the fans on tour.  Is it a little different?  I know last week there were no fans as well.  Usually this tournament is known for the crowds.
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, it's weird.  Like a lot of the holes look different without grandstands.  Like 18 the green looks way smaller without the grandstand around it.  So it is different not having all the fans.
This event is known for the fan support.  It's kind of disappointing not having them out here.  At the end of the day, it is what it is.  Just happy to be out playing.
I think everyone else is, too.
Q. This course I feel like anyone can go low on any day.  What's it going to take for you to continue getting the birdies and going low?
JODI EWART SHADOFF:   I think just keep doing what I'm doing.  I'm hitting the ball well and I rolled the ball better today than I did last week.  That's another bit of confidence for me.
Like I said, it's a course that I played well on so I have confidence around here, just general confidence in how I'm hitting the ball.  It's good going into the weekend.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT