LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP
August 1, 2020
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. I know we talked to you yesterday, and the weather is definitely different as opposed to yesterday.  How did you plan for to rain, impending rain, and did it affect your day today on the course?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, we got a little bit lucky I think.  We played maybe the front nine in a little bit of rain, but it wasn't too bad.  The wind was quite low compared to yesterday.
 So I think we got the best end of the draw by the looks of it.  But the last four holes are pretty tough, so, yeah, pretty happy with my round considering the weather and the course setup, so...
 Q. I think it's going to be a challenging day with the rain here.  Being under par is definitely going to be the goal for everyone out there today.
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah.
 Q. For you being able to end the way you did after the double on 15, how did you rebound to finish strong?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, I think it was a little bit of lapse of concentration on 15, I think.  But, I just told myself, Just try and get a birdie coming.  Even is a pretty solid score out here today, so luckily the putt dropped on 18.
 Q. It was a sweet approach shot there to the green.  What was going through your mind as you took on the last hole?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Just get it in fairway obviously is the first job, and then we were trying to go much further right of the pin than what I actually did.  When I hit it I was, Ah, just go straight at it then.
 So luckily it pitched quite soft and had a nice little right-to-left putt coming in.
 Q. You got a buddy/player on the bag.
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah.
 Q. How did it come about having Holly caddie for you?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   My regular caddie, Shane, he's going to meet me in Scotland, so I was looking for a caddie for these two weeks.  Holly has these two weeks off from Symetra and we've been practicing a lot together in Orlando and she knows my game really well and we just work really well together, and it's been good.
 Q. Where do you guys practice together?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Well, I'm at the Ritz, and we -- mostly at ChampionsGate, because we both get taught by David Leadbetter.
 Q. The course is already difficult, and you add in the rain.  Like on what end of the spectrum in terms of difficulty is this type of day?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Well, obviously the No. 1 goal coming out here is to get it in play.  I think tee shots are going to be much more difficult with the rain.  Trying to keep grips dry and then obviously hitting your approach shots.
 The rough is pretty bad with the rain on it right now even just the semi cut.  You have to club up at least one.  So it's going to be interesting how it plays this afternoon, I think.
 Q. What did you have in on your approach?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   On 18?  We were trying to land it 100; I think we had 107.
 Q. And it was a short putt.  But how short was it?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   It was like eight feet, yeah.
 Q. How much does Holly help you on the greens, read the greens?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   Yeah, she's a really good green reader.  I usually like just for someone to tell me, yeah, that's good, and she's really good at obviously reading the greens.
 Yeah, it's been really fun.
 Q. Do you like playing in this type of weather?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   You know, having wind or rain is fine.  I like to play in difficult weather.  But having both can be a little bit of a challenge, so I'm glad that yesterday we had the wind and today we had the rain.
 So didn't bother me too much.
 Q. How many holes did you play in the rain today?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   We probably -- it sprinkled a little bit on the front nine and it was probably the last five maybe when it started to come down like this.
 Q. Did that impact the double, the rain?
 JODI EWART SHADOFF:   A little bit.  I mean, I think my ball on the tee shot on 15 was just in the semi cut.  We clubbed up, but I still came up way short.  I stuck it well so I can't be too disappointed.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT