MASTERS TOURNAMENT
November 14, 2020
Cheng-Tsung Pan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. You started out hot.   
C.T. PAN: Yeah, birdie on No.8 is obviously a nice start. Hit a really good drive on No.9 right down the middle, and yeah, it was a good start. Now I just can't wait for a break.   
   
 Q. The shot on 8, did you practice that on the range this morning?   
C.T. PAN: Yeah, we walked the yardage yesterday, so we know it's 134 to the pin so I practiced that shot in the morning, and with the coldness in the morning and heavy air, it plays a 142 shot, and that's exactly what we did, and it works out well.   
   
 Q. This is your first time here; when was the first time you actually played the golf course?   
C.T. PAN: Monday.   
   
 Q. First time ever?   
C.T. PAN: First time ever.   
   
 Q. What was the feeling like, it being the first time?   
C.T. PAN: It's overwhelming. I mean, I watched the Masters since I was six, seven. I remember all the holes. It took me by surprise how hilly it is, especially No.10 and No.18 uphill. Just a lot of good memories, and I remember when I was a kid watching on TV with my dad and my brother and just reminds me of a lot of good memories.   
   
 Q. The conditions are playing so differently this year, obviously. Do you think maybe in a way that's an advantage for a first‑timer?   
C.T. PAN: Yeah, I don't know if I should say this. I feel like it plays a little bit easier, but maybe not the next couple days. As a first‑timer it definitely feels a bit more friendly to me. But you know, you've still got to hit a lot of good shots out there. You don't want to miss the fairways. Even though there are a lot of opportunities there, you still have to hit a lot of good shots.   
   
 Q. I know it was just a two‑putt on the last hole, but after the long first hole, are you thinking, just get out of here with par‑‑   
C.T. PAN: Yeah, par was always my goal on No.9 throughout the whole week, basically every day. It's a tough hole.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT