BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 16, 2019
Cheng-Tsung Pan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How satisfying was that?
C.T. PAN: It was a good day.  5-under today and I was definitely more normal, you know, playing with Tiger compared to the 1st Round.  I wasn't much nervous.  But I played really good, played solid, just hit a couple bad shots but I was able to bounce back right away and make some birdies.
Q. Seems like early on on the front-9 --
C.T. PAN: First hole, yeah, first four holes I'm pretty sure -- first hole I had two, three chances within 15 feet.  Hit a lot of good putts.  Just misread a couple times.
Q. Playing with Tiger, the energy that you get from him, from the crowds that follow you guys, how much more different is it from a regular --
C.T. PAN: It's wild.  It's crazy.  Everybody is yelling Tiger non-stop, like four hours except when he come out to hit balls.  Really crazy.  I don't know how he -- it definitely affects your game a little bit.
I don't know how he handles that and still wins 82 or 100-something professional events.  That's just amazing.
Q. Good position now for the weekend.  Just tell us about the weekend.
C.T. PAN: I feel good about my game.  There are a couple things I think I can do better which I will improve on later in the day and I mean really good position.  I just want to play good golf and hopefully that will take care of everything.
Q. The best spot the last two days playing with Tiger.  What can you draw that will help you moving forward, the best parts?
C.T. PAN: Pairing with Tiger and being able to hit a lot of good shots under pressure.  Lot of noise out there for sure.  But you're just being able to focus.  That tells me that I'm much better at that.
Definitely will help me in the future.
Q. Any chatting that you guys did between shots?
A
We played pretty fast.  Didn't get much chances to talk about -- we chatted a bit.  He's super nice.
Q. The last with the photo with Tiger?
C.T. PAN: My wife, she asked me last night hey she wants to take a picture with Tiger.  I have to ask, which I did.  That was great.
Q. Happy wife, happy life, right?
C.T. PAN: Absolutely.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT