BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
August 15, 2019
Cheng-Tsung Pan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your first experience playing with Tiger.
CT PAN: It was great.  It was amazing.  Obviously I didn't play well the front nine.  I was pretty nervous.  You know, just the way I expected, I was very nervous about it, but overall it was great.  Growing up, he's my idol, and I've always dreamed of playing with him in a round or any hole if I could.  So it's definitely a dream come true experience for me.
Q. I know you were concentrating on your own game to try to put up a good score, but do you watch him, try to pick up something from him?
CT PAN: Honestly, I watched his every shot.  I was more worried about his shot than mine for sure, especially the front nine.  But just the shot he hits, obviously he didn't really have a great day, but he hit a lot of iron shots that was just so pure, and the way he compressed the ball, the way he hit a ball is just amazing.  That's something I could admire, I guess.
Q. Looked like you couldn't get any momentum going, you had some bogeys, came back with an eagle, but just didn't build on that?
CT PAN: Yeah, just kind of the way I've been playing the last three months.  But I feel like I'm getting better every day.  I made an eagle out there under a lot of pressure.  I wasn't feeling comfortable at all the front nine.  I was able to make eagle and made a lot of clutch up-and-downs, No. 9, No. 8.  It was all great, so I just need to take some positives from that.
Q. There's so much at stake this week.  You need a top 12 to get to Atlanta to the TOUR Championship.  You're No. 8 on the Presidents Cup.  What do you think you need to get better at to make sure that you have a great week?
CT PAN: You know, I feel I just need to focus on a couple of simple stuff, just focus on each shot and focus on one target, and this week, my swing, my technical -- that's just one key.  So just kind of keep things simple and you've got to play aggressive on these greens because they're softer, and as you can see, a lot of low scores today.
Q. Was this the first time that you asked a fellow competitor for an autograph?
CT PAN: Yeah, I usually don't like to ask because I don't want to bother them at all.  I usually just put the flag -- for the foundation put the flag up in the locker room, and if people want to sign it, great.  But Tiger --
Q. He's Tiger, right?
CT PAN: Yeah, he's exceptional.  He's great.  It's awesome to have a tee shirt with his autograph.  I'll definitely frame it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT