WGC HSBC CHAMPIONS
October 24, 2018
Cheng-Tsung Pan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Your first World Golf Championship; how excited are you to be here after spending the last two, three days in Sheshan?  
C.T. PAN: I mean, Sheshan Golf Club is amazing.  It's in terrific condition, and it's fun to play.  The finishing holes are really fun, tough and very penal.  You can make eagle and you can easily make double, too.  So it's going to be a fun week for me.   
This being the first time at a WGC, it just means a lot to me.  I've been trying my whole life trying to get here, and then like, in fact, 11 years ago, I was here just playing a round of golf at this golf course right after the Volvo China Open.  I remember it vividly.  I told myself, I wish I could be here any time soon, and today I'm here and that means a lot to me.   
 Q.  How many years ago was it when you played here?  
C.T. PAN: 11 years ago.  2007, I qualified.  I went to qualify in Hong Kong and qualified for the Volvo China Open.  Played in the China Open but didn't play well.  Missed the cut.   
Played here on Saturday.  Was just like, I wish I could be here any time soon.   
 Q.  You are an established PGA TOUR player now.  What difference do you see between a World Golf Championship event and a regular PGA TOUR event?  
C.T. PAN: You see more different faces from different major tours.  You see the top 30 from The European Tour.  Just you see a lot of different faces from different tours, and I think that's cool.  I think that's what the WGC is trying to do.  You know, trying to gather all the best players from all the tours in the world, so I think that's pretty cool.   
 Q.  Being a player from Asia, how important is it for these sort of events to help grow the game in Asia or Chinese Taipei?  
C.T. PAN: It helps me a lot.  I'm from Chinese Taipei.  Just, yeah speaking Chinese here, it feels like home to me.  It's very -- like rarely, I don't usually go to a tournament and speak Chinese everywhere.   
Just helps a lot.  I can get more exposure and people recognize me as one of them.  I hopefully inspire them, as well.   
 Q.  Your third straight event, part of the Asian Swing.  How have you felt you've been playing?  Have you been happy with how you've done in Malaysia and in South Korea?  
C.T. PAN: Some good and bad.  You know, played some decent rounds.  I mean, last week, played a lot of good golf on the front nine, but back nine, I just didn't play well enough.  I pretty much blew the whole chances of being in contention.   
The week before, Malaysia, I just had a couple bad rounds.  I still finished top 30 for both weeks and that's not bad.  I wish I could do better, obviously, but I think I'm off to the right start.   
 Q.  Do you feel after spending the last two days here, working on the range and playing here, do you feel comfortable?  
C.T. PAN: I love the course.  I think it sets up, fits me well.  Sheshan Golf Club, it's hard.  It's not long, but it's challenging.  The design is really terrific.  So I think it fits my game.  I just need to play well.   
 Q.  Again, this is the three events, part of the PGA TOUR fall season events.  How important is it for you and the other guys, as well, to take advantage of these events out here in Asia, especially if you're from Asia, as well.  How important are these events for the FedExCup race, as well?  
C.T. PAN: It's crucial.  You've got these no-cut events and you can just go out there and play your game and you don't need to worry about anything else.  I think that helps the mind-set a lot and that will help a lot of players to perform their best, as well, including me.   
I think starting with a top ten finish, top five, that sets you up perfectly for the rest of the season.  You can pick your own events.  You don't have to worry about the FedExCup anymore.   
 Q.  I know we talked about the Presidents Cup the other day, but I just wanted to ask you, you're in the Top-10 of the International Team rankings right now for the Presidents Cup.  How important is it for you to try and make the International Team, and what do you think you need to do to make Ernie Els' team for next year?  
C.T. PAN: What do I need to do to make it to the team?  I just need to play well, really well.  I mean, being one of the International players means a lot.  It's really hard, too, because we've got all the best players in the world and it's going to be hard, but I think I have a good chance.   
I'm off to a pretty good start, as well.  But I think it's still pretty early, honestly.  The date, it's not until September or something.   
 Q.  December.  
C.T. PAN: I have a lot of time.  I just have to play great golf and step-by step.   
 Q.  Do you know Ernie personally?  
C.T. PAN: Yeah, I've met him.  Actually I've been to his fund-raising event last year.  I met him briefly, but yes, he's great.  It's going to be fun.   
 Q.  What sort of captain do you think he will be for this International Team that has not had too much success in the recent Presidents Cups; what sort of captain do you think he will be?  
C.T. PAN: I think he's going to be perfect.  He's got a reputation and he's got a great personality.  I think most players love him.  I think everyone likes him, honestly.  He's an easygoing guy.  I think it's going to be a really good experience for everyone.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT