U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2014
Cheng-Tsung Pan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Talk about your position, 5-under, and that's going to get you a high seed.  What do you think?CHENG-TSUNG PAN: You know, for match play, the position, probably doesn't matter as much.  We all start a new match.  We all start from zero, so everyone has a chance and you've just got to play well.  I'm very comfortable with my game right now, and I really like the way I play, so hopefully I can make something impressive.Q. You made the turn and you were 6-under and you had a shot probably in your mind about being medalist.  Was that important to you when you made the turn?CHENG-TSUNG PAN: Yeah, when I made the turn, I saw one guy was 8-under.  I know myself, 6-under, I had a chance to catch him.  I want to because I'm a competitive guy, so I just want to win. Unfortunately things didn't go that way but that's all right.  We made the cut.  I made the cut, so that's good.Q. You've played in so many of these things.  What do you know about playing match play that somebody else may not know that hasn't played in a lot of these?CHENG-TSUNG PAN: You know what, I haven't figured this game out yet (laughing).  I'm in the quarterfinals twice, so I know I can play and I can win matches.  But I don't know, match play, just different thing.  You can't really control it I think.Q. Would you have more of a comfort level knowing what's coming than a guy who may not know?CHENG-TSUNG PAN: Definitely.  I mean, I'm experienced I think, and hopefully that can help me.  But you've still got to hit really good shots out there and Highlands, it's really tough course.  It's really demanding.  So you've just got to hit good shots and make sure your mind-set is right.Q. You played in the British Open this summer.  What was that experience like?  What did you learn there that maybe you can use here?CHENG-TSUNG PAN: I learned in the Majors, you don't have so many opportunities for birdies.  They are only the few easy holes, so you really want to play well on those easy holes to cover your loss. So that's one thing you try to do, try to make birdies on par 5s and try to play well on the long par 4, try to make a par and try to keep my damage low and make some birdies. Yeah, that's something I learn from the Majors.  The course setup is hard.  You've just got to make some birdies on those easy holes when you can.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT