U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 15, 2013
Cheng-Tsung Pan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   From when you played against him, knowing his game as you do, are you surprised that he would play so well?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   I mean, no, his game is solid.   What you have to do here is you've just got to‑‑ you have to hit good shots.   Everyone can hit good shots, but it depends how many good shots you hit and how bad is your worst shot.
His game, he's always solid.   Of course I'm‑‑ he's a good player, so that's very good.

Q.   He's not a flashy‑‑ he's a really good putter. 
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   I didn't play with him much. 

Q.   In Mandarin, if you could, comment on the experience going into the weekend?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   (Speaking in Mandarin.)
Q.The competition seems like it's feared in that conference, maybe it didn't show that the NCAA's necessary.   Three of you making the cut is pretty extraordinary?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Yeah, it is.   I don't know, PAC 12, California is always a big golf state and Washington always has a good golf team and Oregon, too.   Stanford‑‑ just a lot of good teams in the PAC 12.   And fortunately we have three amateurs make cuts this weekend, so that's good.

Q.   Have you heard from anybody at Washington, words of encouragement, other coaches, other players, anything like that?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Yeah.   I've been texting with my coach, my head coach.   He say just do what you've got to do out there.   And people in Seattle are rooting for you, and just let you know that.

Q.   Are you excited The Open is going to be in your back yard there in two years?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Yeah, Chambers Bay.   And that's probably my‑‑ one of my favorite courses.   I wish I can play.   Hopefully I can talk to you guys again.

Q.   It's Father's Day tomorrow, I know your father played a big role in developing you as a golfer, what do you think seeing you play on Sunday would have meant to him?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   It's really important to me.   He pretty much gave me a chance to play golf and he taught me how to golf, how to swing, how to grip.   He's a big part of my game and unfortunately he died a few years ago.   And he couldn't see me right now.   But he's somewhere out there watching me.

Q.   What's your most vivid memory or lesson that he taught you about golf and about life?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   He say‑‑ I don't remember.

Q.   I read somewhere that he had you play in the pouring rain a couple of times?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Oh, yeah, like we used to practice every day, even typhoon or hurricane comes.   So it was 45 miles of wind and we still go out and practice.   That's what he believe what makes us stronger and I think he proved that, too.

Q.   I know you weren't able to go home for his funeral because of some technicalities?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Yeah, it's been a while. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT