U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2013
Cheng-Tsung Pan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Tell me about how you're feeling about your position. 
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Well, I feel good.   I played great this afternoon.   I didn't hit my driver well, I hit a couple of fairways out there.   But I ground it out just trying to make par and make tons of par putts, which are really important for me.   That makes all the difference.

Q.   What do you think about when you think about it almost two days being in the contention on the leaderboard at the U.S. Open?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Well, it's still early in the tournament, two more days.   I've got 45 holes to go.   I don't know, just seeing my name on the scoreboard, that's all I'm trying to do.

Q.   You did a great job today.   What was the highlight of your round today?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Probably No. 5.   I hit a very good first shot.   The fairway is tiny and my ball was on the fairway.   That was good.   And I hit a really good second shot.   So I had an easy birdie there.   That's one of the toughest holes of the course.   It feels good to finish birdie.

Q.   Did you think coming into the tournament that you would have a chance to be in contention?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   No, I mean obviously it's a U.S. Open and a lot of good players, great players here.   I was just trying to do my job, trying to be a good player, just finish up here.   This course is good for me because it's not really long.   I just feel it's narrow and accuracy is my strong point, which helped me a lot at this course.

Q.   After seeing this course this morning and the scores getting higher and higher as the course gets more firm, any expectations in terms of your goal for today?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Yeah, I mean I knew it's going to be tough all day because the wind picking up and score high, obviously with the course playing tough.   I just told myself to be patient.   Sometimes bogey is a good score, so don't be upset with a bogey, just forget it and keep going.

Q.   Feeling any pressure being on the leaderboard?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   No, actually I'm very excited to see my name on the leaderboard.   The reason I don't feel pressure is because the holes are hard and I just trying‑‑ every shot hard. 

Q.   How do you feel you're going to sleep tonight?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   I'm tired.   I just want to go to bed.

Q.   Not worried, not anxious about it, not excited about what's coming up?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   No, I just want to keep going, that's what I'm trying to do. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT