U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 14, 2013
Cheng-Tsung Pan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What an incredible performance out there.   Describe what you were able to do on a very difficult course?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Well, I just trying to hit good shots each time.   I mean, in the morning I saw the scores were high.   I knew the scoring was going to be tough.   And I felt the wind pick up and greens were going to be firmer and faster.   So I just trying to remind myself just try to hit a good shot each time, even if I made a bogey, just forget it and then just continue, because sometimes a bogey is not bad.

Q.   You're a young guy.   You don't seem to be phased in a Major championship.   You've played Augusta two times?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Augusta?   No.

Q.   No, you didn't.   I apologize, I thought you played a Masters. 
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   No. 

Q.   You're not phased by this Major Championship atmosphere?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   This atmosphere here is great.   I came to the U.S. Open 2011 and I just fell in love with this kind of atmosphere.   Personally I feel I belong to that kind of place.   I'm not saying I'm good enough, but I love this kind of feeling and the competition is great.   I just want to be here always. 

Q.   It was Congressional. 
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Yes. 

Q.   You had some experience on U.S. Open courses?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   Yes.

Q.   How happy are you with the way you're able to get around this golf course?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   I'm really happy with my performance.   I mean 2‑under‑‑ I think that's a good score for me and I'm very satisfied with my performance this afternoon.   And I still have 45 holes to go.   I've got lots of work to do and I need to finish it.

Q.   Tomorrow, just talk about the fact that you do have to come out, go out and play quite a bit.   Does that phase you at all or are you comfortable with that?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   It's just something you've got to do.   If you've got to do it, you better finish well. 

Q.   Yesterday you had a good start and then the back nine got you back a little bit.   What did you learn yesterday that you can take into tomorrow?
CHENG‑TSUNG PAN:   The course is hard.   It's narrow.   Well, the only way to score on this course is‑‑ you've just got to hit a really good shot and if you don't you will get penalized.   And that's what I'm trying to do is hit a good shot each time. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT