NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS BRAVES
October 2, 2019
Ronald Acuna Jr.
Freddie Freeman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll get started with Freddie Freeman and Ronald Acuña Jr.
Q. Brian Snitker said he was encouraged by what you did yesterday. How did you feel going through that game?
FREDDIE FREEMAN: I felt very good. I didn't feel my elbow at all, which is very encouraging. I'm really looking forward to tomorrow. I feel 100 percent.
RONALD ACUÑA JR.: Really good. Just same enthusiasm and energy. I think the adrenaline is coming back now that we're getting closer to it. Like I said, just going to come out with same energy and enthusiasm that we had before.
Q. How do you feel physically getting ready to go into the postseason?
RONALD ACUÑA JR.: It feels good. Only missed three days, so feel back to 100 percent, and ready to go into the next series.
Q. Freddie, were you at all surprised that after the four days off that your elbow started to ache apparently when we were in New York? And do you feel like this time you have knocked it off or you just wait and see?
FREDDIE FREEMAN: I was a little surprised, actually, especially when a week or so before I had a day off and felt pretty good. But I'm very encouraged about how I felt yesterday, even came on the Monday off day and got treatment and hit here as well and felt nothing then, too.
So I'm very encouraged going into tomorrow that I'm going to have no problems arising at all when I swing. I faced the live yesterday. And that's usually when it was coming when I faced velocity and hitting the ball. And I felt nothing yesterday. So, I'm really looking forward to tomorrow because I think I'm going to be 100 percent.
Q. Did you learn anything about the postseason last year that you think that maybe you didn't know that can benefit you this year?
RONALD ACUÑA JR.: This year it's a little different just because of the added experience from the previous year.
So I feel like the style of play changes a little bit. But as far as me, I'm going to attack it the same way, have the same mentality, do anything I can to help the team win.
Q. Freddie, when you have a guy like Keuchel on the mound in a postseason game, you know what experience he has, does that experience give the team more confidence?
FREDDIE FREEMAN: I think so. When you have a guy on the mound who has been in the World Series and won a World Series, pitched Game 1, pitched in winner-take-all in the Wild Card game against the Yankees, we have a lot of confidence. We have a lot of confidence in all our guys in this series.
Everyone's been pitching really good going into the end of the season. But when you have Dallas, who was our big guy that we got during the season and how he pitched for us going down the stretch and what his experience in the postseason, I don't think anybody has any kind of less confidence in a guy like that.
We're going to be ready to go, and I know he's going to be ready to go tomorrow.
Q. I know you're not a pitcher, but from your perspective what kind of impact did he have on the staff; Keuchel, that is?
FREDDIE FREEMAN: He had an incredible amount of impact. Just for the simple fact that he wants to go seven, eight innings every single time out there. In today's game a lot of guys seem to be okay with just going five and six innings.
And in today's game it's really hard to have three or four guys cover four innings and be on top of their game, as you saw that last night in the Wild Card game. Brewers wanted three extra guys to go after the starter.
So it's really hard to have your A game for every single person to come out of that bullpen. When you have a starter wants to go seven or eight innings, you can rely on one guy to get the last three outs it's huge, and he wore off on all our young guys.
All our young guys want to go seven, eight innings and I think that's the biggest impact he had on our young staff.
Q. Freddie, how tough, not to put you in a tough spot, but how hard is it for you to see Julio not be able to pitch in the Division Series?
FREDDIE FREEMAN: It's tough. I actually texted him earlier today and just to let him know that I care about everything he's done this year and everything he's done every year and what he means to not only this team but this organization.
We wouldn't be in the playoffs without him. He threw up a 3.6, 3.7 ERA this year. It's very hard to do. It's tough. He's been with me since this all started back in the day in 2011. He's seen this thing through the hard times, too.
It's definitely tough. But if we're lucky enough to go on, hopefully he'll be on the next one.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT