NHL DRAFT
June 26, 2009
Brayden Schenn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Can you talk about this day and this moment?  
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: It's real exciting. It was a long day for me and no better feeling, got my named called and it happened to be L.A. I'm happy to be a part of the organization, and they are going in the right direction, so I'm really excited.  
  
  Q. Lots of talk that maybe Toronto wanted to grab your rights; a little bit of disappointment there maybe?  
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: Not at all. That's done with now. I'm happy to be an L.A. King, and the first step for me is making the team and that's what my focus is now.  
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: I'm not going to think about it too much. I think the work starts in a couple days here, and I'll start worrying about having a good summer and I'll see what happens.  
  
  Q. What's it like, two brothers going fifth overall back-to-back years?  
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: I guess I it's real nice for our family, a lot of hard work that me and Luke put into it. It's not easy. I'm proud of Luke and I'm sure he's proud of me. For the most part we are really excited.  
  
  Q. Will he take care of you -- inaudible.  
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: I owe him a bet. I'm sure I'll get to know him a little bit more but that's definitely a good team in L.A., a strong building block for the future for them.  
  
  Q. Do you ever allow yourself to think that maybe, just maybe there was a chance you could play?   
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: Well, there was possibility of trades, but like I said that's over with. Happy about it and happy to be part of the L.A. organization and real thrilled.   
  
  Q. Looking forward to playing against your brother?  
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: Yeah, I've got to make it first and then I'll worry about that. L.A. only plays Toronto I think once or twice a year. First up for me is making that jump from junior to NHL.   
  
  Q. Did you visit L.A. in how was that for you?   
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: Never visited and never seen it. It's an experience in itself and I'm looking forward to going down there to camp.   
  
  Q. What did Luke tell you about today?  
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: Just enjoy it. It could be a long night, could not be and just have fun, whatever team picks you, be excited, be thrilled, and for him going through the experience last year and getting picked by Toronto, he enjoyed the experience and it's good.   
  
  Q. You're both picked fifth overall, who is the better player?  
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: I'm not going to say. He's the deem on -- there's no comparison there. I will give the upper hand to him right now; he made the jump in I guess one summer. No, it was good for him.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.   
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: I don't know, I think just a two-way game. I play both ends of the ice as well as I'm physical. Those are a couple of things that I bring to my game.   
  
  Q. Is there any talk to Lombard I up there and what did he say to you?  
 BRAYDEN SCHENN: Yeah, I talked to him obviously and just said be ready to come into camp and be in shape and that's about it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT