LOS ANGELES FOOTBALL CLUB MEDIA CONFERENCE
July 18, 2020
Pablo Sisniega
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







“Spanish portion of press conference translated into English below:”
Q. How did you have the confidence to be starting in this game?
PABLO SISNIEGA:   It's a very special game. It's a classic of the classics, we had to beat them. I really wanted this and I was very excited to play against them. I'm happy with the results and how the team played tonight.
Q. How was it after the performance you had today against LA Galaxy with 6-2?  How did you dazzle with the goal and the ones you had today to win the game with LAFC?
PABLO SISNIEGA:   I want to play and do what I can within my power. It's a beautiful competition that we have. I'll do everything I can to continue playing with confidence in the team.
Q. Pablo, what was the message during halftime it looked like there where a lot of individual mistakes in passing the ball that was slow and what was the message in that short time?
[Speaking English]
Q. Hi, Diego. Congratulations on your win, congratulations for moving on to the next round. After the goal against LA Galaxy with the performance from the forward, what should we expect in the next game?
DIEGO ROSSI:   Thank you. First of all, we continue the same way, obviously we have some things that we need to fix, things to be better, keep working in that aspect, to keep advancing as this is just the beginning, this is game after game I'm going to have to show what level we're at, we have to be focused on what we are doing, what we do well, and what we do well is to keep showing that we are getting better with what's fundamental for us and to keep doing that.
Q. You have four-one assists that you've done twice, you are the only one with that record now. How do you feel that contributes to the team and at the same time breaking records?
DIEGO ROSSI:   It's important for any player and the forward is always making goals and helps the team that way. To keep assisting and making goals is good. Obviously, one feels happy with the especially when you feel happy in this type of game where you can have three points. I think it was fundamental and obvious it's good to play that way but in this moment I'm happy with that because I'm thankful for the team we have.
Q. Talk to me about the second half, what changed?
DIEGO ROSSI:   What do you mean?
Q. Talk to me about the dynamics in what changed in the second half. What were the changes?
DIEGO ROSSI:   I think the first half we worked a lot obviously, generally each classic that I've played has always been a type of game to work hard and I think that when we assert the passes and go forward with the pass well done and more than anything, behind the backs of the midfielders was when we made it our game which characterizes us and that was important. In the first half we had more work, there weren't a lot of passes toward the front and really it was our game to change but really from the start it was the team's attitude.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT