U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 31, 2004
Jose Maria Canizares
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Could you start us off by walking us through the birdies and bogeys on your card, please?
 JOSE MARIA CANIZARES:  Last three holes.  The last three holes was very easy.  On the 6 I hit a 4-wood.  It was maybe really two yards short of the pin, I putted uphill.

17, I hit a driver and 5-iron, easy 9-iron and very big putt, then maybe one foot.

18, I hit a good driver, easy 5-iron, maybe four yards short of the pin, uphill, I was lucky, and then I made birdie.
Q.  The big issue is about the long, long day maÃƒ ±ana.
 JOSE MARIA CANIZARES:  Tomorrow I've got new legs, new head, new everything for the second 18 holes.  It all depends on the weather, if it's a little hot because it's not easy.  Maybe it's going to be difficult to play 36 holes because if it's too hot it's a very tough golf course for walking.  I'm younger, look at my body (laughter).
Q.  How were the conditions today on the golf course?
 JOSE MARIA CANIZARES:  A little wet.  The greens are not fast but the pin positions are very tough.  It was lucky, yesterday it was raining a lot.  Thursday I was hitting a little fat, and today many times you hit a beautiful shot, maybe five, six, seven yards of backspin.

I hit the ball good today.  When you play good, it's not that difficult a course.  Sometimes if you play bad the course is difficult.
Q.  With the heat coming on, do you expect the conditions to change tomorrow on the golf course?
 JOSE MARIA CANIZARES:  The conditions not change a lot.  Maybe tomorrow the course a little more dry.  Actually the conditions will change depending on the pin position.  But the course is looking nice, very good.
Q.  With the way this course is being so long and the conditions, are you surprised that the scores are coming down as low as they are?
 JOSE MARIA CANIZARES:  Well, the course is a little long but the condition of the course is fantastic.  The greens is a little wet and you have to have more control with the ball.  The fairways, all the time the ball is super, and then you hit in the fairway and try to hit on the green, maybe the course is not looking so difficult.  If you miss the short grass it's looking more difficult.
Q.  Do you think you're in good shape to walk 36?  Are you okay?
 JOSE MARIA CANIZARES:  I don't know, I'll tell you tomorrow after I finish.

Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT