UBS WARBURG CUP
November 16, 2001
Jose Maria Canizares
Stewart Ginn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








STEWART GINN:  Well, first of all, I've got to say, very happy to win, to beat those two guys out there today.  So overall, very happy.  Mr.  Watson and Mr.  Roberts, I think my partner and I played well.  I think we were 3- or 4-under for the day.  We are very happy. 

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES:  Well, very happy to win that match because it's not an easy match.  Stewart was great to play with and very happy to win.

STEWART GINN:  On No. 13  -- yeah, they were ahead all day, basically, right through up until 13 and they made a very good birdie.  We both birdied 10, 11, and 12, the par  5.  They made a great birdie there from Tom's missed drive to the left.  Tom hit a great pitch in to about five feet and Loren made it.  Then we really got started.  I think we were very fortunate on the par  3  -- I think it's 14.  I was surprised Loren missed a putt there.  I think he's the best putter in the world, and watching him miss from four feet  -- I had one just inside it and I made mine and that sort of gave us momentum for the next hole.  Next hole, I hit a second shot a little bit long and Loren hit a great shot in there about three or four feet.  I hit mine about 30 feet and Jose here snuck one in there, and I think that was the turning point when he holed from that distance, I think that was really turning point right there. 

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES:  Yeah, that putt, Loren Roberts, he hit a very good second shot.  So on the green, I look at the putt  -- Watson missed and I hit the next putt for birdie.  Stewart Ginn and I are in the hole and it's very important for us, then playing the last three holes, four holes very good and we played very good on the greens  -- (inaudible) -- it was a very interesting match. 

Q.  Could you give us some general thoughts on the golf course itself, how it played today, how you think of it for match-play versus stroke-play events? 

STEWART GINN:  Well, myself, I think this is a great golf course.  Probably one of the nicest courses I've played, one of the toughest courses I think you can play, with the elements and the way it is designed there is no letup.  There is no area where you are either batting into the wind going out, and you got a bit of relief coming down the back stretch for a little while for about three tough holes and then tough holes coming back in, so it's never a letup out there.  I enjoy the golf course.  I think it is a great design and as stroke play to match play, well, the two of us out there playing two other guys, and you've just got to go for it.  You've got to play sensibly, be on the fairway and on the green, and when you get on the green, you've got to be in the right position.  So it is very demanding and I'm totally enjoying the whole week.  It's a great week and a great golf course and a great partner, to boot. 

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES:  Thank you. 

Q.  Did you have a feeling the 30-foot putt was going to go in? 

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES:  I try to hit the ball in the hole every time.  I hit a driver, I try to put it on the green, I try to putt the ball in the hole.  Every time, I try to putt the ball in the hole.  That putt, it's more easy  --  (inaudible) -- when you make it like that, it makes you feel like you can putt the ball in the hole all the time, but you miss more times than you get it in. 

Q.  Are you guys surprised at the way the Rest of the World Team is dominating play today? 

STEWART GINN:  Well, the first day, I don't know about dominating play, but when you play, it's a very fine line out there.  Both of the matches are very close, as we said, and I guess this format lends itself to that, where, you know, Jose and I are playing here on the Senior Tour here in America, and you've got the Rest of the World players playing all over the place.  So it's going to be a very fine line for the rest of the week.  We saw that in the Pro-Am yesterday, with an amateur and the pros.  The Rest of the World won there, also, so I guess it doesn't really matter at the end of the day; someone is going to win and you've just got to go out there and play golf.  I see your question  -- I'm not surprised, no. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT