IR SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 3, 2000
Jose Maria Canizares
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   Played good.  I had very good iron shot.  I hit good driver.  The first nine I putted very good.  On the ninth hole, I made the putt for par.  And then I missed a birdie on the 10th hole.  Missed a birdie on 11.  Missed a birdie on the 12th.  Anyway, I played very good. I had many chances.  It is very difficult to make birdie, birdie, birdie.  But that's okay; I try.  
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   Well, yesterday, also, I hit the ball very good.  My putting is okay.  I think just the pin position is a little more difficult today for my game, I don't know.  Also, yesterday, I played very good.  
 
JOSE CANIZARES:  On the first one, maybe two and a half yard -- 
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   I hit 3-wood and sand wedge.  
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   I hit a good driver, 1-iron, maybe five yards, more or less.  
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   No. 4, I make birdie, the par 4.  I hit a driver, very good driver.  I hit an 8-iron very close, I don't know why.  Maybe one yard. 
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   I hit driver.  I hit 1-iron.  I missed the green to the left.  That's a very difficult chip.  Maybe I put it to three yards, more or less, and make birdie.  
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   This is a par 4, No. 8.  Yeah, I hit a 3-wood  -- 1-iron.  I hit a 9-iron, I think, to put it very close, maybe  -- nearly in the hole. 
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   I hit a good 3-wood, but I missed the green to the left.  Very difficult chip.  I chipped very good, but I missed the putt.  Maybe three yards.  
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   16, I hit a 3-wood, 9-iron, maybe one yard to the right of the hole.  Very good second shot.   On the 18, I hit a 6-iron, to -- again, maybe one yard.  
 
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  What did you hit at 17? 
 
PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Okay.  Questions?  
 
Q.  Other players have found the front nine the more difficult nine.  You started so fast; you're 5-under par at the sixth hole. 
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   Well, you play good golf, you hit the ball very good, very good iron shots.  I think it is  -- yes, it is more difficult, because the people finish on the first nine, the greens is more difficult.  But if you play good, the birdies come easy.  If you play so-so, the bogeys also coming easy.  At the end of the second nine, it looked a little more easy at 16  -- the 16th is not an easy hole; 17 is not an easy hole; and 18, also, if you try to make eagle, maybe you make 7.  It is a very tough hole for a finish.  It might have looked a little more easy on the first nine.  Sometimes it comes easy, sometimes it can be difficult.  It doesn't matter what happened on the golf course, if it is difficult, it all depends on how you are playing.  
 
Q.  Allen shot 64 yesterday, Allen Doyle.  Were you more aggressive early to try to catch him? 
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   Well, somebody make 64, 61, 68  -- you just try to play your game.  You try to play the score as low as possible  -- (inaudible) -- someone makes a very good score yesterday  -- (inaudible) -- sometimes you stay behind it looks very easy.  
 
Q.  How important or big do you consider this tournament for you? 
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   Well, for me  -- I think maybe for everyone, it is one of the more important tournaments on the Tour, because this tournament is the Championship.  This is the last tournament, and then there is  -- if all year, you stay in the Top-31, then the tournament looks more easier because there are 31 good players there; and then a good golfer wins the tournament .  I think for me, it is one of the more  -- one of the four big ones.  
 
Q.  Which are the other three?
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   PGA.  U.S. Open is important.  Another one is maybe the Ford.  You know, the big ones.  
 
Q.  Do you find yourself getting more comfortable each year that you are on the Tour?
 
JOSE CANIZARES:   Oh, yes.  It was very hard for me my first year, and last year was  -- (inaudible) I have to play better golf because here are the best players in the world.  For me, it is hard to play good golf, but I will try  -- still young, but not for long.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT