INGERSOLL-RAND SENIOR TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 5, 1999
Jose Maria Canizares
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: Thank you. 

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: Well, yesterday I missed -- the ball very long today to the pin.
My putting yesterday is not very good and then today I hit the ball more close. My putter
is working very good today. 

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: Yes, because I make 65. 

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: Yes, on the first I hit a driver, 7-iron. Not close to the pin,
maybe 10 yards. Good putt for birdie. 

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: No. 8, I hit a driver, 4-iron. I hit a 9-iron maybe three yards,
made birdie. On No. 10, I hit a good driver, pitching wedge, maybe half a yard, less, two
feet. No. 12, I hit easy 5-iron. I hit it maybe three yards, good putt. On the number 13,
I hit a driver, 3-wood, sand wedge for 80 yards, and that was maybe under three feet, easy
birdie. And then 15 -- the par 5, I hit driver, 3-wood, sand wedge, 60 yards to the pin.
That putt is maybe one yard and a half, maybe. 16, I hit a good driver, sand wedge, the
pin is very short -- short maybe four, five yards or so, maybe.

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: I don't know. Four yards, five yards, I don't know. 

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: Yeah. I like the course. It's a nice course. Very tough course.
Very good course for the competition. But the fairways are wet, and unless you hit a good
drive, you need to hit maybe 3- or 4-iron. And the ball is very dirty sometimes, maybe
more times than normal. And then it's so difficult with those greens, those greens are
very tough, 4, 3 -- yesterday, I hit a good driver, my ball is very dirty. It's over 200
yards to the pin and I need to hit a 3-wood. And I shot maybe 10 yard or so to the pin.
That's because the ball doesn't have a chance to fly because it is so difficult. A lot of
very nice holes. A little more dry -- dry, the fairway, it's perfect. 18 has got good
change, because the hole is very nice for finish. Maybe because the weather is so wet the
last few days. Now, it's a little less wet. But the rest is perfect. The bunkers are in
perfect condition. The green, it's okay. The greens are good. Too much spikes, you know,
more mud in the greens but it's good. Good condition. Very good. 

Q. Are you surprised at all good about George's play throughout the first two days?

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: No. He's a good player. I played a few times with him. I play
last week. He's a good player. He hit the ball very good and putting very good. Last week,
I played with him and I remember, No. 17, it's very tough hole, you know. It's maybe one
yard and a half. Super second shot. Super driver. I make four-putt. But he is good player.
All my life, I was younger, his pictures in my room, because George Archer for me is one
of the best players in the world. Now he has good confidence. He is good, mentally. The
game is a little more easy -- I like to play with him because everything for him is so
easy, the swing, hit the ball, the chip-in. He is a good chip-in. He's a good player. I'm
not surprised.

Q. What type of expectations do you have this week? Do you expect to play well?

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: I expect to play well every week. I play every week for winning.
But I'm not winning any tournament. Whole time I play for -- play good. 

Q. Is this weather-- does this weather suit your game at all, cool weather?

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: The problem is it's so cold. It's very difficult. I live in the
south. I've played many times in the European TOUR. Four years ago is -- the last time I
played in cold weather. I had three years here, and then I forget, for the cold hands. And
I don't like it, play with the cold hands because I lose the feeling. But it's difficult
for the cold weather because the hand, you know, you lose feeling. Also, when you have it
cold, the ball, you know it's not the same as (hitting) for a 26-year-old and the
(inaudible) it does not move the same. But I think for the older men the cold weather, it
is not very good. 

Q. (Inaudible.)

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: Yesterday is not really cold. It's okay. But today is lovely.
Only the last few holes it is very cold. But I think the weather is coming a little before
warm; it's perfect. 

Q. It will be warmer tomorrow?

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: Today the weather is perfect. Perfect for playing golf. The best
weather for play golf. 

Q. How good of friends are you with Vicente and wasn't that fun playing with him?

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: When you play with your friends, very good friends, it's not
easy. Because the whole time, your friends miss, make some mistake, you know, I think
you're not happy and sometimes you're more -- concentration for the game for your friend
than yourself. I like it more. All the time I play with my friend. When I play bad --
today was lucky because we also play very good, make 3-under par. Me, I make 7-under par
today (inaudible) my temperament. I like to play with friend for the practice, not in the
tournament. (Inaudible.) Need the more anger, you know. 

Q. How good of friends are you with -- are you all good friends?

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: Yes, yes.

Q. Played a lot on the European TOUR?

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: Played a lot. Very good friends. I know Vicente, I know very
good, and he knows me very good. 

JOSE MARIA CANIZARES: Well, I watch the scores today, just a little in the morning.
It's good to know -- the scores are very good. The problem with Valderrama is the wind. If
the wind is coming, it's a difficult course. If it's a not coming it's okay.

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT