NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 9, 2007
Larry Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Your game the other night wasn't a typical game for you.  Obviously the injury, but was it because of the foot or do you think it wasn't so much the foot?  Shooting-wise? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  Shooting-wise I took five shots.  That's not a lot to go on to judge yourself by taking five shots.  I didn't play much in the second half, so I didn't look at the way I played as an effect of my foot. 

 Q.  Are you healthy enough to be in the starting lineup in your mind? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  I think so.  I felt the longer the game goes on now, I feel more comfortable with playing.  Sitting out of practice last week and not playing in the fourth quarter -- basically our last games against Detroit not playing.  So it's timing, a rhythm thing.  I felt that I was getting better and I was dealing with the pain okay. 

 Q.  So when you hear people say, Mike Brown needs to put somebody else who's healthy in the lineup, how does that make you feel? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  Well, if we win, I don't think it would be said.  I just look at it that way.  It doesn't affect me either way.  I understand the situation.  I understand what's going on.  If it's better for us to have somebody else in the lineup that guarantees us a win, then I'm all for it.  But if not, then I definitely want to get my shot and help the team the best way I can. 

 Q.  Do you think that you are healthy enough to deal with Tony Parker?  He got by you a few times.  He got by LeBron a few times, too. 
 LARRY HUGHES:  He got by everybody a few times.  I only played 23 minutes.  That's not enough time for me to get anything done as far as figuring guys out and adjusting to what the game was bringing. 
 I feel confident with what I'm doing and how I've been preparing myself and getting ready to play these games. 

 Q.  Has Mike said anything to you? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  Not really, not really. 

 Q.  Not really but kind of? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  As far as what? 

 Q.  As far as people are saying a lot of things.  Has he said anything to you to assure you that you're going to be in the starting lineup or does he want to wait to see how you feel? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  I don't really need to be assured.  If he makes the decision to make a move, then we'll go with it and I'll adjust from there.  I don't need to be sat down and talked to. 

 Q.  Does he ask your opinion, like hey, what do you think? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  I don't think it was -- for me, I guarded Tony maybe four plays.  It's a team game, team defense, especially when a guy is getting to the basket and using the pick-and-roll to get to the basket.  It's more figuring out how to win a game whether to place a player in to say that's how we're going to win a game. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT