NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 8, 2007
Larry Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Are there a number of adjustments you have to make after your play last night? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  I'm sure there are a lot of adjustments that we can make, but when you give up offensive rebounds and those guys tip the ball out and you've got yourself in good position to make a run and get some points on the board, but you give up offensive rebounds and give up three-pointers, those are the things you see right off the bat that you have to correct. 

 Q.  It seemed like a lot of guys were running at Tony, and that would be like a curse, wouldn't it?  I mean, you run at him, he's so quick, he can go right around you.  Was that just a breakdown yesterday or was that part of the game plan to maybe try and have him give up the ball? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  I think we got a little confused with what he wanted to do as far as him getting around our big guys who were trying to corral him a little bit.  I think we were a little bit over aggressive in that way.  I definitely think it's an adjustment with getting the ball out of his hands, making him shoot jump shots. 
 You also have Duncan, who's going to draw out one person, two people every time, so it's a tough thing. 

 Q.  In the pick-and-roll yesterday, they seemed to hurt you guys on that, too, with the pick-and-roll. 
 LARRY HUGHES:  I think we weren't really focused on what we needed to do, and that's not allowing Tony to turn the corner.  We wanted to sack back a little bit, but he's so good he takes the space up, so we have to look at some things to correct that. 

 Q.  And you're good to go for Game 2? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  Yeah. 

 Q.  That lack of aggressiveness you spoke about at the very beginning, their fault, what they did, or did you guys come out flat? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  I definitely think it's always a combination, always a combination.  But they can't really stop our energy.  You know, if we bring energy, that's something that they can't control, and we have to do a better job of going all-out, making aggressive mistakes, playing smart enough to understand that we have to start the game off better and definitely finish the game better. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT