NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v SPURS
June 6, 2007
Larry Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   LARRY HUGHES:  We don't have any fear because we're just embracing this opportunity and want to have fun with it.  At the same time we want to be focused and we want to be professional.  We know that a lot of us may not get to this point again.  It's never easy. 

 Q.  This is probably old hat to you, but do you ever stop and think, this 22-year-old kid in LeBron and the stuff that he's doing and the people that he's being compared with, how do you describe that? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  I just think it's all outside right now, all the time and the things he's done in the playoffs and the guys he's being compared to now.  It's really outside talk to us because we have a goal, and that's to win in these Finals. 
 We understand that he is and will be one of the top players in this league or top players to play this game.  So with that, we want to let him carry us as far as he can and be there to support him and also to help him win. 

 Q.  He's mature, he seems humble, he goes out of his way to not make the story about him, but yet he was on the cover of Sports Illustrated when he was 16 or 17 years old.  Before you met him, did you think, oh, man, this kid is going to be totally full of himself, and were you pleasantly surprised? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  Well, I'm the guy that believes in the best of people.  Guys that are selfish and not team players and bring most of the attention on themselves don't make it far.  He's a guy that doesn't do any of those things.  I think he'll be even better than he is because of how humble he is, the team player that he is, and wanting the best for his teammates.  I think that'll take him a long way. 

 Q.  He's 22.  How can you tell? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  Did anybody see him come in?  No, he's a funny guy, man.  He's a guy that has a joke.  He's always laughing, and when his commercials are on, I think the best reflection of himself is that he could have possibly given the world to see because that is him.  One minute he can be serious in a situation like Game 6, Game 7, and the next minute, you catch him walking in the building making facing and clowning around. 

 Q.  The fact that a 22-year-old kid, for lack of a better word, is the leader of men at this point. 
 LARRY HUGHES:  Oh, no kids, no kids.  I mean, 22 is -- a lot of people are starting their lives at 22.  I think he's mature. 

 Q.  What do we not see that you get to see every day? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  I'm not sure.  I think as much as he's interviewed and as much time as he spends on the camera, you get to see it because he doesn't hold anything back.  I think he's himself before anything, and I think he lets you judge whether you're going to accept him or not. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT