NBA EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CAVALIERS v PISTONS
May 26, 2007
Larry Hughes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  (Inaudible). 
 LARRY HUGHES:  Not really.  It's one of those things where I wish I could have looked at the shot if I knew I had a little bit more time.  But for the most part I just wanted to -- I didn't know how much time was left, so I wanted to get back up on the board.  Not really. 

 Q.  It was kind of an awkward angle. 
 LARRY HUGHES:  I mean, I caught it, and like I say, I caught it with like five seconds, and I knew we had took it down pretty late in the clock.  I definitely could have got a better look, but I think -- I had a chance to put the ball back in the basket. 

 Q.  You're playing good defense, but is that enough for you?  Not just the team but for you because your offense has struggled the first two games? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  I mean, it's not enough.  It's definitely not enough.  Just trying to look at the different opportunities I have to score the ball and make shots, and it's not as fluid as I want it to be.  I can just continue to try to work and figure it out, but it's not -- I'm focused on the strong points, really, so I have to get things in transition and get things on the swing. 
 I think I just need to be a little bit more patient and concentrate a little bit more.  We're definitely taking a lot of shots in practice and warm-ups, so I have to just keep working at it. 

 Q.  Have you done things to look at your stroke on tape or are you just trying to work through it? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  You just work through it.  Last game I took four jump shots, and one was at the end and everything else was going to the basket, just didn't get the calls.  I shot 2-for-9, and I definitely could have shot a lot better than that. 

 Q.  (Inaudible)? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  No, we definitely just watched game film.  I'm not really focused on the offensive side as much because I'm not hurting the team but I'm not helping the team.  I'm not forcing things, I'm not taking bad shots, but at the same time, shots that I take could go in and we're in better position.  So I definitely have to do more to take better shots when I get them. 

 Q.  Have you been able to put the bad games of last series out of your mind?  Is that still bothering you at all do you think? 
 LARRY HUGHES:  No, I think they're gone.  I didn't shoot the ball well throughout the series, but I did enough as far as getting to the free-throw line and making some timely shots here and there.  It was Game 5 where I struggled putting the ball in the basket, but other than that, I'm fine with what's going on.  Game 6 I wasn't too concerned because we made subs and the subs played well, so there wasn't a lot of opportunity to bring the percentage up or to shoot better. 
 I'm looking at everything, trying to stop watching basketball tape and trying to break things down until we're done.  Before then I've just got to keep working to find out how I can do better and help the team win. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT