DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 7, 2017
Benjamin Hebert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Over 36 holes, what's been the best part of your game so far?  
BENJAMIN HEBERT: My driving, definitely.  I hit a lot of fairways.  Of course it's most important like this, and also my putting, because you need to hole some putts to have so many birdies.  I'm very happy with those two part of my game, and I hope it's going to continue the same this weekend.   
 Q.  You have six victories on The Challenge Tour.  How much will you lean on those experiences over the weekend?  
BENJAMIN HEBERT: I think it's totally different.  You know, of course, The Challenge Tour is very nice tournaments and very good players, but I think The European Tour and especially Rolex Series are bigger.   
Just try to, yeah, continue things that I do and yeah, try to keep the things that I learn on The Challenge Tour to maybe win on this one.   
 Q.  Bogey-free yesterday, fantastic opening round.  You dropped two shots early but it was a great recovery picking up three birdies in a row.  
BENJAMIN HEBERT: Yeah, today was a bit tougher, especially in the morning because it was cold and a bit rainy, also, and windy.  But after, it becomes quiet, not so many winds.  Yeah, I just try to focus on the par 5s, because I think it the key here to get some birdies and that's what I did, so I'm very happy.   
 Q.  Which part of your game has pleased you most over the first two days?  
BENJAMIN HEBERT: My driving is very solid.  I hit a lot of fairways.  It's very important here because it's quite narrow.  When you miss the fairway, it's not so easy because I can have like some bad lies on the rough.  Yeah, I think I hit a lot of fairways and that's the key, and also my putting, it's solid.  Yeah, you need to hole putts to make birdies.  So that's important, too.   
 Q.  Obviously been a disappointing few weeks for you but what's changed this week?  You're joint top of the leaderboard at the moment heading into the weekend.  
BENJAMIN HEBERT: I change my shoes first (laughter) no, really.  I change the start of the season and I feel good on the shoes, but those ones are better I think.  And yeah, I practise a lot this weekend with my coach.  We did very good job with all my team, because we've got a lot of persons around, physio and fitness coach, my technical coach, my caddie, also, and we had a big talk all together, try to find things that doesn't really work.  Good work I think.   
 Q.  As it stands at the moment, you'll be going out in the final group tomorrow, some big crowds here.  So it will be an exciting day.  
BENJAMIN HEBERT: Yes, it's going to be very exciting, for the most, playing with Daniel Im I think.  We know Irish people bring a big crowd and very good public, also.  Just focus on end of the day and also tomorrow, and we'll see.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT