ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2019
Benjamin Hebert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Starting the day seven shots behind, what were your expectations when you got to the golf course?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: Go as low as I can.  We know the scores are quite low this week, perfect weather, perfect golf course.  I just try to be focused on my game.  I knew that my putting is getting better since the start of the week, so yeah, I kind of work on that and that's what I did, so I'm very happy.
Q. Once you were on the golf course, how much were you paying attention to where you stood in terms of a chase for an Open spot, versus a chance to win?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: I was looking for The Open spot, for sure.  But just on the course, it was nice, also, to play with Rafa, because I know him quite well and we can talk and have some good exchange, so it was also nice.  So I feel very relaxed and very comfortable.  Yeah, try to do my best and we'll see now what's going to be at the end.
Q. At the minimum you're going back to The Open that you haven't played since 2008.  What are you most looking for?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: Yeah, for sure I was chasing this spot, so I'm very happy, first.
My first experience was very tough in Birkdale.  The cut was like 9-over I think.  It was very bad weather and the golf course is very tough.  I know Portrush because we played The Irish Open a few years ago over there, and I know it's also a very tough course.  I need to have a good rest now and we'll see at the end of the day, just to be back on my focus and my plan and see what happens.
Q. You were seven back when you started the day.  Did you feel when you turned up this morning that you would have a chance to be playing the last hole with a lead when you were finishing?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: I knew I needed a good start, of course, because yeah, I was way back.  But then, yeah, I start very strong, four birdies on the first five I think.  It was good.  I think it placed me in a good place.
I knew on the leaderboard, that the leaders struggled a little bit at the start, so it was maybe a good way.  Yeah, I just tried to be focused and do what I can.  I played very well from the tee.  I hit a lot of fairways, and I tried to get close to the hole and made some good putts, and that's what I did.  I'm very happy, yeah.
Q. How important was the finish?  Great putt on 17 and talk us through that shot into 18?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: Yeah, well, it's a little bit easier with this wind, because it's downwind.  Usually it's quite against.  So it was, yeah, short -- well, it was still 5-iron shot, but I mean, the pin was quite easy.  You know that you can aim right on the 17th and then the ball can go on the left.
So yeah, it was not a really tough shot.  Rafa helps me because I think he shoot like a 6-iron.  I think he played a 6-iron shot.  So I knew that he was a little bit short because we were quite hesitating with my caddie.
So I took five and it was a good shot.
Q. Worst case, you're going back to The Open Championship, which is a great news and best case, you're going there with a win in The Scottish Open.  Do you think it's going to be enough?  What's your feeling about where you stand?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: I know that Bernd is very, very good form since two months.  There are some holes with good birdie opportunities at the end.  I think the wind is getting a little bit down now.  It's getting warmer, so I think the 16th will be a little bit easier.
But then, you never know.  I'm in the clubhouse.  He's still on the course, so you never know.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT