BELGIAN KNOCKOUT
May 20, 2018
Benjamin Hebert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk us through that final.  Just came out a bit short?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: Yeah, just a bit short.  Adrian is a very good player, especially in this kind of format.  He already won one tournament in match play last year.  But I did my best.  Was a bit tired for the final but yeah, I mean, there is a lot of positive things to learn about this week and that's good.
Q. What do you feel the turning point was in the final?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: I think it's probably -- maybe it's the birdie on 13, or fourth.  Because he drive a bit on the right and it's kind of like this, so he could bounce on the water and stay, but he hit a very good, great golf shot.
So that's a good birdie, and also is maybe the long putt on 15.  But I did my best.  Maybe the birdie on 17, my made birdie on 17, he can put him a little bit more under pressure for 18.
But again, I tried my best.  But it's still a good week.
Q. The shot he hit into 13, did you feel that turned the match?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: I played good.  I think I play already, always under par on my every game.  Maybe my putting, I can work a little bit, but I work a lot this week on this part of the game.  It was good, especially for the semifinal because I earned a very important putt on the last.
I'm quite happy.
Q. How important was your tee-to-green play this week, bearing in mind this golf course is demanding on that front?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: Yeah, it's very tight.  I find a 3-wood shot from the tee, which works very well for all the week, because you don't really need distance.  You just need to be on the fairway but the course was in great condition, firm and very fair.  That's nice.
Q. What can you take from this performance going forward and what did you think of the tournament as a whole, the format?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: Yeah, this format is very fun.  As I said this morning, it puts you under pressure almost every hole because everything can happen.  I think it's a great idea.  I heard a lot of positive things, especially from spectators or guys on TV will say that it's very fun to follow and watch.  So I think it's a very good format, and as I said, the course was very nice and well set for this kind of format, also.
So well done to all the hosts and Thomas and guys here who works on the course.  It was a great week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT