DUBAI DUTY FREE IRISH OPEN HOSTED BY THE RORY FOUNDATION
July 8, 2017
Benjamin Hebert
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Front nine of level par which ended with a double-bogey at the ninth.  How proud of the way you came back in 33, having had that misfortune?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: Yeah, I was happy, of course of the back nine.  The ninth cost me a double-bogey.  I wasn't very good.  I hit a very poor drive, and that's what I think I deserve, very bad one, and that's something that this happened.  But the birdie on 10, make me in a good way to finish the back nine.
Q. You've been in the mix in golf tournaments before.  Does it feel different at a marquee event like this, such a huge championship; does it feel good to be out there on a Saturday with a chance to win?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: It's exactly the same thing.  Of course the players in front are very good but yeah, I just come to do what I know to do.
Q. You've had four missed cuts in a row coming in here after an eighth-place finish at Nordea, and you said you got your team together and you had a discussion with them.  It obviously worked.  What did they tell you?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: We just tried to put things all together, the spirit of the team in the same way, and yeah, that's what happened.  We worked a lot last weekend in France, and the game came back.  I'm very happy about this.
Q. How excited about the possibilities tomorrow?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: Of course it's a very good thing to be here in this place, but yeah, I just want to do my work tomorrow, and tonight, also.  I have like two hours of work coming with my physio and my fitness, and good practise tomorrow, and yeah, we'll see what happens on the course.
Q. How did you play today?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: I played good.  It was a bit tougher today with the wind but perfect sun.  The wind was a bit harder than the first two days, so it was hard to control the ball.  The pin also was more on the side of the greens, and you don't want to miss on the bad side.  I played good.  Just a little mistake on the ninth cost me a double-bogey.
But I'm quite proud of the way I came back on the back nine, and it's good for tomorrow.
Q. This is a big position for you to be in, one off the lead with one round to go.  You've been in the mix a few times.  This is a Rolex Series event.  Do you feel any extra pressure at all?
BENJAMIN HEBERT: No, it's the same thing.  It's a European Tour tournament.  Well, of course, there is some more good players than usual.  I think about Jon Rahm or the Japanese players.  I just want to do my job and see what happens tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT