TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 8, 2011
D.J. Johnson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. Can you talk about the second half and the defensive adjustments that you guys made to stop Texas A&M and the performance there by the defense in the second half?
     D.J. JOHNSON: I mean, it was the majority of us just going out there and playing a little harder, being a little more aggressive. We made some minor changes. None of them drastic. But we just came out. I don't know what it is, but it seems like every time the second half comes around, we fight harder and we just continue to fight harder and tried to stay in the game.

 Q. What was the biggest problem giving up 31 first half points? 
     D.J. JOHNSON: Giving up 31 points, that was the biggest issue right there. I felt like the offense did great. Credit to them, because 40 points, we should be able to win a game putting up 40 points. It probably shouldn't be close. 
     But defensively we've just got to come out fast. We've got to come out strong, and have the mentality that we seemed to just grasp in the second half. You have to have that in the first half and continue it for four quarters. 
     We talked about coming into the Big 12, we have to play four quarters, and we didn't do that today.

 Q. Tannehill got those three big runs in the first half. After that point did you do something different to focus on him or was it just how the defense played after that? 
     D.J. JOHNSON: We didn't really focus on him making runs. We knew that they'd make plays, you know what I mean? It was just a matter of us executing our jobs and our assignments. Once we started doing that it kind of took everything away.

 Q. It's obviously disappointing, a lot of hype around the game. But now you have to get ready for another game next Saturday. How do you get to that? 
     D.J. JOHNSON: After the game, of course, you're going to be hurt, but you don't want to dwell on it. That's one thing I've always been told, you don't want to dwell on the past. So what you do is remember it and learn from it. 
     So what we have to do this week is prepare harder, continue to grow as a team, like coach says. We're a young team. We're young defensively. We only had one senior start. It's just we've got to go out there every day and practice harder and try to get better each day.

 Q. The fact that this was a 45-40 game, did you feel like it lived up to, for fans out there, did it live up to what the series normally gives people? 
     D.J. JOHNSON: I guess so. I mean, I'm not really -- I don't really pay attention to what's happened in the past, because we're living in the present. So with that being the case, I wanted to come out there and win. We all wanted to go out there and win. So 40-45, the fact that we lost, was devastating in itself.

 Q. How did the noise of the crowd play into the defensive play? 
     D.J. JOHNSON: Oh, man, the crowd was exciting, man. Every time you looked to the sideline or something like that and just looked at the crowd and then once the timeouts or whatever start to get away, you just hear the crowd roaring. That was exciting. I felt like that kept us pumped up. Especially going into the second half, having that crowd behind us helped us out a lot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT