MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 15, 2012
Ivan Dodig
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







I. DODIG/I. Ljubicic
  6‑0, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.

Q.   What does it represent to you to play against Ljubicic? 
IVAN DODIG:   Yeah, I was thinking after the match, I think this is the first time that I'm not happy that I won the match.   I'm happy and proud that I played the match against such a good player who make the history, especially for Croatian people, Croatian tennis. 
Like I said, I'm happy that I played to him last match, not because I was winning this match. 

Q.   Did you think about it before playing, on the court? 
IVAN DODIG:   Yeah.   I mean, yesterday, before the draw, we were sitting together.   We was talking about everything, you know.   Then he show me on the phone message that we are playing against each other.   It was really funny, you know. 
First reaction was very strange, I didn't know what to say.   But later on, like, I was thinking, you know, how would be today the match.   If it's nice, you know, to beat him or if it's nice to ‑ I don't know ‑ whatever.   I had so many things in my mind. 
Like I said, today the match was not so important from the sports side, the tennis side.   The most important for me was I played to him and that makes me happy today.

Q.   You were tough with him in the first set. 
IVAN DODIG:   Yeah, I mean, I think you could see that he's not like in his best tennis because he didn't practice for a while.   But in the end, second set, he start to play better and it was very tough for me, tough set. 
But, like I said, I think this is not important now like how we played, yeah. 

Q.   Does he represent something special for you and for Croatian tennis?
IVAN DODIG:   Of course.   Like I said, for me, I'm very happy I played last match against him because during my growing on the tennis professional, he help me a lot especially.   He help to all Croatian people.   After Goran, he's the guy who was next on the tour. 
All player like me, Mario Ancic, we learn from him.   He had always great advice, suggestions.   I think I use every his word to become a better player and I have to thanks him on this. 

Q.   You played a good match.   How do you see you playing here in Monte‑Carlo?   What are your goals here?
IVAN DODIG:   Yeah, I mean, like I said, we will see next match.   I feel a little bit better.   I had some problem in my back which is still not a hundred percent. 
But I have to focus to play match by match and I will see how it going to be for next round. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT