KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2019
Bob Sowards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I saw you go down 10, and at that point I think you were I want to say seven?
BOB SOWARDS: I was five.
Q. Five at that point.
BOB SOWARDS: Yeah.
Q. Five.  Okay.  And you hit it onto 10.  And you had the rough on the right-hand side.
BOB SOWARDS: Hit it in the rough.  And didn't think it was that bad of a lie, but it turned the club in my hand and hit it short left and no chance to get up-and-down from there.
Q. Okay.  Take me through the rest of the holes as we come in from there.
BOB SOWARDS: 11 I made about a 40-footer from the front of the green for birdie to get back to even for the day.
And then 12 I've hit driver there all week, and especially with the pin back there.  I felt like I could hit it anywhere right and still be fine.  I hit it left behind that tree.  And looking at the yardage book, I wanted to hit it over the green back up there on the hill, and I thought I could get up-and-down.  The rough closed the club and it went just a little bit left and hit the tree and knocked it down, and then couldn't get it on the green again and made double.  So that hurt me.
And then just a routine par on 13.
14 I played 3-over for the week.  I bogeyed it almost every day.  I tried to knock it on today and hit it right over behind the tree.  Couldn't get it on the green because I couldn't get it through the rough, and then didn't get up-and-down.
Played a good hole on 15.  Not even going for the pin, just hitting it front left and taking my two-putt.
And 16 was the best drive of the day.  I think it's the only fairway I hit on the back nine.  Hit it right in the middle of the fairway.  Hit great drives on that hole every day.  And had 117 and hit it about 80, just chunked it.  I mean, perfect mental thought, just I don't really know what happened.  I just completely chunked it.  I very rarely hit them fat.  Bogeyed that.
And then 17 I hit a good chip that it was terrible lie in the right rough, couldn't get it to the green.  So chopped it out of the rough, and it's probably going to go 10 feet past or so, but it hit the pin and stayed there like six inches.  So that was a good break.
And then 18 was probably the best drive I hit all day.  But I couldn't -- I guess I can't get to the fairway on that line.  I was about this far, about six inches into the rough.  It was a good lie so I can actually get a club on it.  But there's no chance of holding that green.
Q. And what'd you use?
BOB SOWARDS: I hit 6-iron and hit it perfect.
Q. And what was your distance roughly?
BOB SOWARDS: I was 167.
Q. Okay.  I saw it come in.
BOB SOWARDS: Yeah, into the wind and left to right.  And then I thought it was going to roll back on the green, because it's a pretty steep slope there.  It got caught up and lucky enough to two-putt from off the green there.
Q. About a four-footer at the end?
BOB SOWARDS: About a foot and a half.
Q. Foot and a half?
BOB SOWARDS: Yeah.  It wasn't --
Q. Shorter than I thought.
BOB SOWARDS: But once I saw where it was, I knew I was going to be able to make par.  Like I said, I'm sitting there waiting for Tommy to hit, and I was looking at the board, happened to look at it at the right time, and where it's alphabetical, I saw Mark was in at 9, that's the first time I knew how he stood all day.
I knew going into the day that he could actually shoot under par, because he's got a lot of firepower.  I've played a lot with him.  But now I -- and then I asked my caddie what I was, because I didn't know if I was 8 or 9, and he said I was 9, so I knew I had to par to be with you.  So I wanted to definitely tie at least.
Q. But you wanted to make this the debut you'll always remember.
BOB SOWARDS: Absolutely.  And never did this before.  Be able to be on -- be able to get the bowl and be on the 18th green for the reception and all that stuff.  So it's really cool.  It's just a great week.
Q. It's been quite a year.
BOB SOWARDS: Yeah.  Absolutely.  I started hitting it well probably two weeks ago, last week.  My body started feeling better.  I hurt my hip down in Florida, so I haven't been playing well all year.  But feel like I'm ready for the -- ready for a good rest of the year.  So looking forward to defending my title down in Texas.
Q. There's a lot of opportunities that you couldn't be on the green for the crystal, but now you get the crystal and it's a whole new chapter for you?
BOB SOWARDS: Absolutely.  I'm looking forward to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT