KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2019
Bob Sowards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You kept it intact around, and it didn't look like big problems hit you today.  
BOB SOWARDS: Yeah, well, I didn't hit it as well on the front nine.  I didn't hit the driver as well, but I didn't give away any shots.  That's the key.  And felt very comfortable with my putting, and put a lot of work in yesterday.   
So very happy with today.  The pins were tough.  A lot of front pins.  And then the rain softened them up a little bit.  But it's just a hard golf course.   
 Q.  Does it compare to any other hard golf courses you played?  
BOB SOWARDS: Well, I mean, the first two times I played here was the PGA, and the rough was a little longer and (indiscernible) was a little longer.  But it was a hardest course I've ever played.  And I tell people it's the only course I've ever played that way that I just don't think I could shoot under par.   
I'm a lot better now, but it's still -- you got to play so, so good to shoot under par on this golf course.   
 Q.  It's nothing tricky, it's just right in front of you, right?  
BOB SOWARDS: Absolutely.  And the greens are just really difficult to putt.  Just slow slopey, back to front.  It's just hard.   
 Q.  Just from the outside, it looks like you're feeling pretty at ease among these great players on the Senior circuit.  Some people we've read about for many years coming up and saying hi and welcoming you into the tournament?  
BOB SOWARDS: Yeah, I mean, a lot of them -- a lot of people I haven't even played with.  I've played with quite a few of these guys when I was out on Tour, but a lot of the guys -- like Kirk Triplett this morning came up and said he read the article in the magazine and wished me luck.   
So it's cool.  Most of these guys are -- I mean, everybody that I've met is really nice and welcoming.   
 Q.  It's been a good year for you just to get around and play at different places.  I mean, one time we see you in the PPC, and all of a sudden here you're in this major.  And this type of major, it's a stepping stone for a lot of things for people, but it's also sometimes for -- sometimes it's redemption for people too.  
BOB SOWARDS: Yeah, absolutely.  I couldn't wait to come here because even though I came here with kind of dreading playing the golf course because it's so hard, you know, you develop a little chip on your shoulder that it beat me up twice, and while I know I'm not going to beat this course up, if I can just hold my own and play well, I would be really pleased.   
 Q.  So you're respecting the course.  
BOB SOWARDS: Oh, my God, there is no question.  No question.   
 Q.  Yeah.  But you certainly know where to go and where not to go out here.  
BOB SOWARDS: Well, if you hit it in the fairway, you can score on the golf course.  As firm as the greens were yesterday, if you didn't hit it in the fairway, you couldn't really get it on the green.  So this softened up a little bit.  I don't know whether another storm is going to come in tonight.  But if it doesn't, they'll firm back up.   
 Q.  Any particular one hole today that you were happy to see that kept the round intact?  
BOB SOWARDS: 17, yeah, I mean, I hit it left.  I've hit two perfect drives there the first two days, and I hit it left behind that tree, so I just had to wedge out.  And then I still had 113.  So hit a mediocre shot in there about 25 feet and made it for par, which is the longest putt I've made all week.   
But I hit a lot of good putts.  I felt like I putted really well today, just didn't make everything, obviously.  But combine that with good ball striking on the back, I was pretty pleased.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT