KITCHENAID SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2019
Bob Sowards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Among that age group at a major as opposed to the previous majors you've played in?  
BOB SOWARDS: Well, it's definitely different.  There's not near the crowd, not near the crowds.  It's just the attitude of the players is a lot more laid back.  It's completely different.   
But in the same respect, they play championship golf courses, and it's very similar as far as how it's set up for the regular majors, just maybe a little shorter.  But it's just as tough.   
 Q.  Have you been preparing just as you had been in the past for this championship?  
BOB SOWARDS: Yeah, I actually prepared a little different in the fact that I was a lot more laid back coming into this one.  I didn't practice till my hands bled, and just kind of went with my normal routine, practicing every now and then when I have time and playing on Mondays.  But didn't really change much from the normal schedule this time.   
 Q.  Well, this is an Oak Hill that a lot of people have not seen in the past, which is in the month of May.  How would you classify it from the previous time you're familiar with it?  
BOB SOWARDS: Well, I know the two PGAs that I played here, it just completely beat me up.  But I didn't hit the driver like I do now.  So I'm hitting the driver long and straight and making it a lot easier than hitting it short and crooked like I did the first two, first two times I played here.   
But hopefully I can keep hitting it like I am and make a few putts and get back in the tournament.   
 Q.  Was just the putter the problem for the first two days?  
BOB SOWARDS: Yeah, absolutely.   
 Q.  You said seven three-putts?  
BOB SOWARDS: So seven three-putts.  Obviously one three-putt is too many for me.  But four today, shoot 4 -- what'd I shoot today?  3-over?  And shot -- and shot 3-over?  So I'm hitting it great.  I feel like I'm hitting it just as good as anybody in the field, but I'm probably putting it worse than anybody in the field.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT