MONTREAL IMPACT MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 13, 2016
Mauro Biello
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Red Bulls - 3
Montreal Impact - 1
Q. Did you see what happened on the goal?
MAURO BIELLO: Yeah, I think the ball bounced back out to them and Grella was able to get around the corner, get in behind.  Once you're able to do that, he put a ball on the box there and it was a bit of a scramble and they were able to score.
A little bit disappointed that we come out that way after the half and give them that goal right away.  I think that if, you know, we were going to get chances, and we did going forward, I think we could have probably tied that game up.  But today, we weren't at our best in this game.
Q. Wright-Phillips playing for Dax -- what did you think of how he played today?
MAURO BIELLO: Yeah, I think he's doing well.  He's coming in for Dax and has done fairly well.  He scored last week.  He's got a lot of talent.  He played simple, reads the game well.  I don't think that was the issue on our part.  Obviously the ball popped out to him for his goal, and he got it on target.
In the end, I think it was way too easy for them to slip a ball through the middle of our defense and they score and they go in alone.  Simple little cross in the box on the second goal on Wright-Phillips, we should have did a better job with that also.
Q. The changing shape -- was the weather a factor?
MAURO BIELLO: Yeah, you know, we decided to go like that.  I think going with two forwards, they were, you know, if we had three, one, two; the three guys in the middle were going to contain.  And once we contain, we break.  And that's exactly what we did.  We hurt them, I thought.
We let them back in that game, but for the most part, the first part of the first half, they may have had the ball, but there wasn't really clear chances, other than the one Bush makes the same on Wright-Phillips.  I think that overall, if we were a little bit sharper, maybe we could have got another one.  But defensively, we need to be better.
Q. Can you talk about the conditions and the way they affected your players?
MAURO BIELLO: Yeah, I mean, this is -- felt like a hundred degrees out there.  It's not easy.  It's not easy to play in those conditions.  But at the same time, it's hot for both teams.  You've got to be able to manage the game in the right ways when it's hot like that.  And obviously we're playing away from home and they were going to have a little bit more of the ball, so it gets a little bit tougher for us.
But I have to applaud my players.  Some guys worked extremely hard, played a whole half, in that heat, with a man down, and still created chances.  That shows a lot of my group, and you know, we'll take this one and then we'll get ready for next week.
Q. Seemed like after about 15 minutes, Drogba was dropping back significantly to get the ball.  What were they doing to cut off service?
MAURO BIELLO: You know, I think that's what happened on the first goal.  They bid on Drogba and a ball in behind, and we went in alone.  Matteo went in a few times, so that was the idea.  As soon as we win back that ball, if Drogba comes, the other one goes and it was perfect on the goal.
But in the end, it wasn't enough tonight, and you know, credit to them for the game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT