WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 2012
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It was a long day today.   I know you don't want to be playing in the consolation match, but you really played solid with the exception of 14.   I never got to look at that lie.   What happened in the bunker on 14?  
MARK WILSON:   I decided I couldn't get it over the lip.   I decided to play it safe there and couldn't get it over the ravine.   Yeah, I kind of had him 3‑down there and I let him back in with my play on 14 and 15.   But thankfully I came through with three pars at the end, and he didn't make any birdies on top of me.   Lee Westwood is obviously a great player and top ranked player in the world, so it's pretty cool to beat him.  
   
 Q.   Your thoughts going in now to these couple tournaments down in Florida.   You've got to be excited with the way you're playing right now, especially with your ball flight, playing in these windy conditions and courses where you really have to control your ball?  
MARK WILSON:   I'm excited obviously for PGA National next week.   I need to get a little rest, though.   I'll be there, you won't see me there until Wednesday for the Pro Am.   I am excited for it.   I've got good vibes at that course.   I am excited to see these irons, they work great in the desert in these conditions, dry conditions.   I want to see how they work down there in the humidity.   It would be fun to try it down in Florida.  
   
 Q.   A fun little story, your caddie, Crispy, he's going to drive.   He's not going to make the Pro Am.   He's not getting there until Thursday morning, is that correct?  
MARK WILSON:   That is correct, yeah.   Crispy has a friend, Gabe is his name, who came up from Palm Springs.   They're going to drive across the country through the nights and be ready for my Thursday tee time.   He just loves his van.   He wants to have it with him on the East Coast.   I don't blame him.  
   
 Q.   Your wife going to be on the bag?  
MARK WILSON:   Oh, no, she's not.   She's going to be home.   I've got to find somebody for Wednesday.   Now that this is on the air something tells me I'm going to get some phone calls.   
   
 Q.   Yeah, you might get some phone calls.   Great play.   
MARK WILSON:   Thanks.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT