WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 26, 2012
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Played well, just didn't get it to the finish line?  
MARK WILSON:   I think when I chipped in on 10, I thought it was going to be a good turning point, but we both birdied 11.   
13 and 14 are kind of ones that stick in my mind.   A couple of 20‑footers that if I could have got one of those going it might have been a different story.  
   
 Q.   A few unusual shots for you, though, the short par‑putt at the first hole and then I couple of wedges that didn't spin for you, I'm thinking back at 2 and then at the 4th?  
MARK WILSON:   It's the way the greens are, yeah.   I thought I hit it good on 2, but it's just so firm.   But I played all right, you know, it wasn't my best stuff but I felt like I played okay.   I'm disappointed I lost.   But it's been a fun week and I'll try to regroup and play some good golf this afternoon.   
   
 Q.   Clearly disappointed with the result, but tell us how you feel you played today?  
MARK WILSON:   Just always was behind, I guess.   I had a couple of chances there to make some noise on the back nine.   A couple of 20‑footers for birdie, but just didn't get it done.   Hunter made the birdie on 15 when he needed to when I was in trouble and that was kind of the difference right there.  
   
 Q.   You've been playing beautifully all week, and winning your matches quite comfortably.   When you're down going into those latter holes, what is the tactic then?  
MARK WILSON:   I guess how to remember how maybe uneasy I was with the lead, so maybe the other guy is uneasy.  
But obviously Hunter didn't make any mistakes, then he pared 16 and 17 and made me try to make birdies and I didn't do that.  
   
 Q.   Players say that every day here feels like contention, because of the pressures that are on you.   How valuable is that going into the rest of the season in that you've played well under that sort of pressure?  
MARK WILSON:   It's very valuable, no question about it.   Yeah, it feels like when you get in that car and you've won a match, it feels like you've won a tournament.   I feel like I won four tournaments this week, and I can take that the rest of the year.  
   
 Q.   A playoff for third and fourth place.   Obviously valuable World Ranking points and Ryder Cup points.   You're keen to win that one, for I'm sure?  
MARK WILSON:   I'm definitely trying, for sure.   I'm going to be trying hard and have a little fun out there, give a little entertainment to the crowd.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT