WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 24, 2012
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  LAURA HILL:   We'd like to welcome Mark Wilson to the interview room.   A pretty strong 4 and 3 victory against Dustin Johnson.   Talk us through your round and how you things are going out there for today and looking ahead to the quarters.
MARK WILSON:   So far so good.   Today Dustin didn't have his best stuff.   He hit it in the desert a few times, and gave me a few holes.   I took advantage of that. 
I think the turning point was when I chipped in on 12.   Dustin had a pretty easy bunker shot.   And I was looking to maybe lose two straight holes, but instead I holed it and that kind of turned things around.

Q.   You're kind of the giant killer here this week.   Every time I turn around you're winning.   Are you supposed to be here?
MARK WILSON:   I guess so, I don't know.   I mean I think I've tried to tell you, and I know people keep talking about how I hit it so short that I can't compete.   First of all, I don't hit it very short.   And secondly, it all comes down to putting, it really does.   So I just don't know how many times I have to explain it. 

Q.   You've been on a really good run, here, for the last year.   Seems like it kind of started in Phoenix last year. 
MARK WILSON:   Yeah. 

Q.   It just has a life of its own, now, it seems?
MARK WILSON:   Kind of.   But, yeah, I definitely draw on those.   It made it a little easier winning at Humana, those experiences I had at Sony, and Phoenix, and realizing I can get it done. 
But match play is a new thing for me.   I've definitely felt a little more comfortable each day.   Bo Van Pelt and I played probably the best match I played this week.   The first day we only had one bogey and ten birdies between us. 
Since then I haven't scored as well, but my opponents have given me holes.   I played a little more tentative on purpose.   I'm happy to be here and advancing and see what we can do tomorrow.

Q.   Along those lines, match play at least at this level is relatively new to you.   Given the fact that an American has only won this once in the last six years, would you attribute that to the parity in International golf or maybe the Americans aren't as familiar with it as Europeans?
MARK WILSON:   I don't know, do the Europeans play more?   I know they play a World Match Play at Wentworth.   Once again, I really don't think of it ‑‑ golfers with their flags next to their head.   I think of it as all golfers.   We're just golfers around the world.   That's what's great in these World Golf Championships, coming altogether.   We get to see them here and at the Doral and at the Masters. 
So I think it's just a matter of it's a coincidence, really, in my opinion, that only one American has won.   I noticed that we had, what, seven Americans in the top 16 playing.   So that was good for us.   Once again, I don't really think of it as USA, way to go.   It's more like they happen to be the golfers that won.   It's the country they came from.

Q.   A question about the disparity between your length and Dustin's length.   How much do you think on average he was out‑driving you?   And secondly, how much of an advantage is there to hitting first into the green in this format?
MARK WILSON:   There's a little bit of an advantage hitting first into the green.   But you certainly need to hit a good shot and keep the pressure on.   He didn't drive it very good.   The second hole is a good example.   I hit a good drive right, trying to clear that bunker that's 280 off the tee, hit it right in the lip.   But then he tried to clear the bunker that's 310 and hit it right in the lip.   So we're right in the same ballpark.   They moved the tee up on 5.   He drove it in the fairway.   I was in the fairway.   You still have to drive it straight.   Normally I see Dustin Johnson hit it straight.   It's a wow when you watch him hit his tee ball.   He didn't have his best stuff today.   Yeah, in a normal thing I'd give up 50 yards to him.   But today, for instance on 11 I hit a good drive there.   And granted he said he didn't hit it that great, but he was only about 20 in front of me.   Once again, it all comes down to who can hole the putts and get it done around the greens.   This course is playing trickier and trickier every day.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT