BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 17, 2011
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK WILSON: The exception to the rule is when you're re-marking you can actually touch the hazard, so I kind of got lucky in that sense. But I didn't test the ground at all, so I feel like it makes sense. I didn't gain anything from that. It was just a silly thing. So no penalty, which was good news for me. I wasn't sure.  
  
  Q. But you played a bunch of holes thinking it might have been, right?  
 MARK WILSON: I played a bunch of holes thinking I was 3-under, not 5-under, but it was nice, a nice bonus at the end. I fought hard and played hard. It was one of those days where I was definitely the bug, and the first two days I was the windshield.   
  
  Q. Was it a case where you were kind of putting pressure on yourself having to get up-and-down a lot? Did it just kind of catch up to you today?  
 MARK WILSON: No, I got up-and-down plenty of times. I did great. I was 1-over for the day standing there on the 12th tee and hit a poor shot. I had a three-putt on 13, made a great up-and-down on 14, got completely fooled by the wind on 15, and that led to a double. 16, trying to push it back -- it was one of those where -- the lesson is to play it short on 16, and I was trying to push it back and get myself back in the tournament, and lost another shot. I'll play the same way tomorrow. Everything feels great. It was one of those days. I'm glad there's a fourth day to it.   
  
  Q. Justin is playing beautifully right now.   
 MARK WILSON: He played very nicely. It didn't play that easy, and he made it look pretty easy, got up-and-down when he needed to and make a few birdies, and he made some nice long par putts, and that was the difference for me. I think the longest putt I made was a six-footer for birdie on 11 that I can think of. I didn't save any shots with some long putts or even make any birdie putts. They've got to go tomorrow. Law of averages.  
  
  Q. A lot of guys were saying it was the trickiest day of the three so far.   
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, it's starting to get a little firm, and the wind just tricked me a few times, and I looked silly out there a few times because of the wind hitting the wrong club.  
  
  Q. You were okay with the early start today?  
 MARK WILSON: You know, my score doesn't show it, but it actually is an advantage to the leaders because everybody plays in the same conditions. Obviously when you see people go out early, shoot a low one and the conditions get more difficult. I think it was an advantage to my situation. It definitely helps the leader groups in a situation like this, so I was definitely for it. TV dictates all, so I understand how it works. I wouldn't be happy about it if it was a Sunday doing that, but Saturday is okay.   
  
  Q. The ruling thing, kind of hanging that over your head, did that have anything to do with --  
 MARK WILSON: No, I'm a big boy. I'm a big boy. I got fooled by the wind on 15 is where all that happened, and then I couldn't get any putts to drop. I pretty much decided -- I thought I had the penalty. I had to focus on I made a 5 on No. 14 and it would be a bonus if I get a 3, and it turns out there was an exception to the rule that worked in my favor, and I'm happy it worked out okay. 77 is a lot higher than I was thinking I was going to shoot. I certainly didn't want to sign for 79.  
  
  Q. The club just accidentally incidentally contacted the sand?  
 MARK WILSON: Exactly, yeah. I didn't realize it until I lifted myself up and I saw a mark. I'm like, oh, no, that's my club that made that mark. So they deliberated about it and talked to the USGA about it so they feel good about the decision. It was kind of -- I couldn't lobby for it at all, I just had to sit there and wait, and glad it went in my favor.  
  
  Q. Did you know at all during the round about this?  
 MARK WILSON: Yes, I did. I knew -- I saw the little indentation I made, so after 14 I called for an official, and they said, yeah, we already noticed and are talking about it. That's TV for you.  
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT