JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 8, 2011
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK WILSON: Yeah. I just -- yeah, just a mental lapse, you know. I felt like I was in the right spot, just trying to hit it down the middle and I just got a little quick on one.   
  
  Q. One mental lapse in two days.  
 MARK WILSON: Yeah. That's a bad one to do it on because you can't really recover from there. I had to take a drop and felt like I didn't really have a chance to hit the green. So I just played the percentages and made sure I wasn't going to make any worse than 6, give myself a chance for 5.   
 But you know, I rebounded with some nice putts on the back for some birdies, and you know, I would have liked to have gotten that one in on 17 and nice par on 18. So yeah, there's still 36 holes left, so I'm in good shape.  
  
  Q. And that was really your only mistake in 36 holes so far.  
 MARK WILSON: Yeah. That makes it easier to score low when you have one mistake like that, so hopefully I can do 36 holes more like that and eliminate a mistake like that.  
  
  Q. Nothing changes on the weekend. You see the scores you know you probably have to put up tomorrow like this; right?  
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, right. Couple more like what Steve did today.  
  
  Q. Yeah.  
 MARK WILSON: Yeah. It's going to be low. The weather looks great. The ball's going far. The course is playing short, and it's playing to my strengths really, not playing long. The balls are releasing on the greens a little bit, so I don't have to worry about spinning it back. So it's playing in my favor. Now I just gotta go execute, roll some putts in.  
  
  Q. Steve looks like when he wants to he can still knock it pretty far. That drive on 18 was huge.  
 MARK WILSON: It was, yeah. You know, I think some of them are deceiving out there, just based on hitting on the corner of a dog leg and getting a big bounce. I did the same thing on the fifth hole, hit it through the fairway. But yeah, he can hit it plenty far to be the No. 1 golfer in the world.  
  
  Q. Was it fun playing with him the last two days?  
 MARK WILSON: It really was. I didn't really think about it too much, but occasionally I thought about -- I got to play a practice round with him in the 1998 U.S. Open and how far I've come and how much more comfortable I feel playing alongside him.  
  
  Q. Good. Thanks, Mark.  
 MARK WILSON: You bet.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT