MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q. How was it out there?
 MARK WILSON: It's beautiful. Good scoring conditions. Just kind of had an out of body experience for me for 11, that kind of derailed me. But I hung in there and am looking forward to tomorrow.

 Q. What happened right in there? You 4-putted on 8?
 MARK WILSON: I did. I was playing, I just felt good with the putter really good and I got a little ahead of myself. I had about a 10-footer straight up the hill and firmed it through the break and missed the 3-footer coming back and then another 3-footer. 
 So you know, I kind of learned a lesson there. Obviously I got a little ahead of myself, I was counting that birdie before I even hit it. 
 And then I hit a couple bad drive on 10, or 9. 
 And then a mud ball on 10. 
 And then 11 was a bad drive as well. 
 So, but I played really good coming in there, so.

 Q. Did you hit a tree on one of those drives?
 MARK WILSON: On 9, I did, yeah. It kicked out for me in the fairway, but no shot to the green. 

 Q. Was it one of those things that was kind of tough to pull yourself out of that or was it pretty easy to just stop and take a deep breath and move on?
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, I was just surprised what I did on 8. So normally I was able to put that behind me and I didn't do a good job of that today. It took me a couple of holes and I paid for it. 
 But if I could have just rolled a few putts in on the back, I could have made about four or five birdies and an eagle. But I still feel good about everything. What can you do? Just things weren't going well. I lipped out another part on 18 for a par. I'll try again tomorrow.

 Q. Talk about 13. What did you hit in and how long was your eagle putt?
 MARK WILSON: I had 217 and I hit 3 hybrid and it never left the flag stick. It was pretty cool. It was six feet and I thought it was straight and I think I pushed it an inch and it broke an inch and I missed it right.

 Q. What was the experience like on the first tee, the first Masters today?
 MARK WILSON: It was -- yeah, it was, it felt like I went back to my first Greater Milwaukee Open, to be honest with you, that's about how nervous I was. 
 I hit a good drive and second shot. And I felt pretty calm going to the second hole and I played some good golf there, but what happened on 8 really just kind of derailed me for a little bit. 

 Q. Was it, I mean, everybody's talks about how the course changes. Does your mindset change when you step to the first tee for that first time?
 MARK WILSON: Not really, no. I've been trying to downplay it, it's just another golf tournament. If I can convince myself of that, I'll do all right. 
 I felt like I did a pretty good job of that, but yeah, I found out the golf course isn't as different from Wednesday to Thursday as everyone was telling me. I know it's going to start playing even more different as we go, but it's a fair test and the greens are subtle and fast and I got to putt them a little better tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT