TRANSITIONS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2011
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MARK WILSON: I have not really played that well since Phoenix. It was a good start to the year but the last few weeks have not been as planned, so just got the putter rolling. Made all of the putts I should make.  
  
  Q. Can you think of two more perfect days than what we have had these first two?   
 MARK WILSON: I can't, no. We have been wearing a lot of long sleeves on the West Coast. It's nice to be sweating a little bit.  
  
  Q. The golf course, everyone rants and raves about the golf course; it's a ball-striker's golf course. Obviously you're ball-striking very good this week.   
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, maybe not hitting as many fairways as I would like. I'm hitting about 50 percent of them, but the rough is a little lower; so you can actually recover out of it and play smart shots into the greens. The greens are not as fast as we have seen, but with this weather, I think they are going to just speed up as the weekend goes but it's as green as I've ever even it.   
  
  Q. Anything about the round today, any big save or any highlight?   
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, I think after my start was great, after 8, and then I made a silly bogey on 18. I had a bad lie out of the rough. And to birdie No. 1 was nice, to come back and get the ball rolling again.   
 3 was also a nice little putt that I thought of; hit a chip there about six feet away. And both of my playing partners rolled in some long birdie putts, and I wanted to keep pace with them and I rolled in a nice 6-footer for par.  
  
  Q. Is it nice to play with players like Jim and Vijay, world-class players and they are playing good again.   
 MARK WILSON: Oh, there's no question about it. It's all about attitude and their attitude was great. You know we are just all up there trying to take care of our own business and that's what makes it fun. There's no drama, just winning and just get the ball in the hole.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT