WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 6, 2011
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DOUG MILNE: Mark Wilson, thanks for joining us for a few minutes. I know it's late and I know you've got to turn around and come back out first thing in the morning to get the job done so we can get you back in here. But if I looked at it correctly, you birdied three of your first 12 or 13 holes out today. That gives you a two-stroke lead as you finish up the back side tomorrow. It's been kind of a crazy week with the frost delays and everything, so just some comments as you try to bring it home for your second win of the season. 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, I mean, I'm just going to -- I'm really not into the result. I'm just out there enjoying each shot and taking what I get. I mean, a few bogeys I made today were both shots I hit the way I wanted to, just didn't come out of the rough the way I thought and hit a couple of sloppy bunker shots. Birdied some tough holes; 4-iron I hit on 12 was the best swing of the day and rolled in that putt. Just felt good.
 Yeah, just been a long ride. I mean, four holes the first day, 28 holes the next day and then four holes and now 31 holes, and we'll do five more tomorrow and see what happens. 
 DOUG MILNE: What has this week done to you kind of mentally? If you're like us it's almost like you don't even know what day it is. Obviously it hasn't altered your game in a bad way, but does it take a toll on it when you go through weeks like this? 
 MARK WILSON: We see it all out here and we're just trying to get 72 holes in. The rules officials do a great job of it. I'm thankful I don't have to be out here 16 hours every day. The rules officials do, to get the course ready and figure out what the best plan is. They've done a great job, just the frost has gotten in our way. 
 The saddest thing is I couldn't watch the first half of the Super Bowl. That's about it. But the Packers carried through in the first half, so I'll watch the second half. 

 Q. It looked like even before Bill putted that last green you had already decided not to putt. Talk about the darkness and your decision there. 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, we had a good yardage to hit kind of like a 90 percent 52-degree, and the only thing I was a little worried about was the firmness of the greens, but I felt good about hitting that thing close, and it came out a little bit firmer. It landed only ten feet past the hole but it took off on me. Then I was thinking about putting it, but it's hard to read and it's a goofy little putt. It'll be a lot easier tomorrow morning. Someone was screaming in my head saying, don't putt this tonight, so when I heard that voice, I said let's mark it. 
 I knew Bill was ready to go. He's one of the fastest players out here, so he was definitely going to finish. I think Tommy was hoping one of us wouldn't finish because he seemed like he wanted to just mark it and go in.
 We'll start there tomorrow. The group in front of us is on 14. That helps. Instead of being 14B we'll putt a few and then go over there.

 Q. As you came off the course did you have your brain fully around what has sort of unfolded? Did you know who was left, how much you were ahead? 
 MARK WILSON: I don't pay attention to that. So that's the difference with Hawai'i; I could just focus on what I was doing. I knew I was leading in Hawai'i but I didn't know by how many. You guys are of course going to tell me I'm up by two. I knew that going into it. 
 No, I glanced at the board. I think on the front nine I saw Geoff Ogilvy got it to 15 and Tommy and I were at 17. I'll probably glance at the board, top 10 tonight just to see where I'm at. It's really not going to change my strategy, though, but for some reason I feel like I need to know a little bit, especially with all those birdies coming in. 
 But I'm going to be trying to birdie every hole in a smart, systematic way, whatever that means. 14, if that means I've got a 5-iron in, I'm going to hit it to the fat side of the green, try to make a 30-footer. If it makes sense to go for it on 15, I will; if it makes sense to lay up, I'll do that. I'm going to try to birdie every hole in a smart way.

 Q. I was actually going to ask you about those last few holes. A lot can happen on those holes. What kind of a mindset -- are you going to be watching what everybody else is doing?
 MARK WILSON: No, definitely not. Like I said, I'm just going to try to birdie all those holes, and when it comes to a point where I might hit a putt differently or hit a shot differently because of the situation, I'm going to look. But right now, yeah, I've got a two-shot lead, but that could evaporate quickly with an eagle by someone in front of us on 15 if there's somebody up there. I haven't looked yet. 
 I'm going to focus on what I'm going to do, and I know if I hit good shots coming in, make two or three birdies, I'm probably going to be holding the trophy, and if I'm not, someone has beat me and I can handle that.

 Q. Did you get reports on the score while you were out there?
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, plenty, David Feherty and Mike Collins told me what was going on.

 Q. Were you getting a play-by-play?
 MARK WILSON: Not a play-by-play, just scores, 7-0 Green Bay, 14-0, et cetera.

 Q. How difficult is this situation where you know you've got to make a bunch of birdies coming in as opposed to Hawai'i where you probably felt like you need to get clubhouse with a bunch of pars? 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, it's different in that sense. Of course every day I've birdied 15, and 17 I didn't get this morning, but then 18, so I've finished strong. A lot of guys have the ability to do that. The difference I guess was Sunday. The pin on 15 is a tough one. The pin on 18 is a tough one, back right. It's not as easy as when it was down the first three days. 
 So it was a little tougher to make some birdies on those holes, and I don't know where the tees are on 14, or the pin for that matter. Yeah, like I said, I'm just going to try to make birdies in a smart way, not going to be firing at every pin. That's silly. Just hit smart shots and try to roll in the putts. 
 DOUG MILNE: Mark, we know you want to catch the second half and get ready for tomorrow, so best of luck, and hopefully see you back in the morning. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT