WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 5, 2011
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously an interesting week, unique, unlike any other, yet here you are right at the top of things. Just kind of talk about the week so far. 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, it's been kind of broken up, not sure where we're going to play, and I've had to stretch out numerous times because with the frost kind of delaying us thinking we're going to go, then an hour later -- so just kind of waiting around a lot, but it was like 28 holes on Friday and then just finished up really good here, hit a couple nice iron shots and made a couple putts and got a couple late birdies here to finish off a good second round.

 Q. Obviously hasn't impacted your game in a negative way. 
 MARK WILSON: No, no, it feels good. I'm used to the cold and just got all the right gear for it. It's been good. It's going to be a nice weekend. 

 Q. Why is it that you're playing so inspired? Your caddie told me he went out and got you a special head cover. 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, Crispy did. He went to the PGA TOUR Superstore and got the Packers head cover. We'll be rooting hard tomorrow. 
 Actually got paired with Jerry Kelly, a fellow cheesehead, and we were up with Rocco Mediate, obviously a big Steelers fan, and Rocco didn't come back today. He said something in his arm hurt. But I think he was just a little bit worried about the Steelers.

 Q. Rocco worried about the Steelers?
 MARK WILSON: I think he is. I think he got a little tired of hearing "go, Pack, go" out there from all the fans. He didn't want to hear it anymore today.

 Q. Especially the way you were playing. You shoot 6-under in the first round, 65, and went, I can do one better than that?
 MARK WILSON: That's not the plan. It's just taking it one shot at a time. Everything just flowed good today and I felt very calm. I started out really shaky. Didn't hit a fairway until I think my seventh or eighth hole of the second round, so it was kind of all over the place, but it didn't bother me. Just made pars and then all of a sudden got going with the birdies.

 Q. I saw the last couple holes you were rolling the rock. You right now look really -- there's a lot of guys when you see them reach for the putter, they're like, oh, the putter. You reach for it, and it's like, give me the putter, give me the putter. 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, I've been reading them really good. I've got a routine really where I'm just breaking the putt into two parts, and it's really helped. They're just going in. It's a lot of fun. 

 Q. And you've got all your cheesehead colors on. We already know you're going Packers for the Super Bowl. Give me your score prediction. 
 MARK WILSON: I'm saying 24-21 Packers in a close one.

 Q. You're going to be nervous then?
 MARK WILSON: I'll be nervous, but looks like we're only going to get to watch the second half of the game, which is maybe a good thing.

 Q. You say it's a good thing. Are you going to be a little bit distracted out there as the game kicks off because I know there's scoreboards out there. 
 MARK WILSON: I was distracted last week at the Bob Hope, same thing, kind of worrying what was going on with the Bears game, and I was thinking, should I even find out the score? There's no way not to find out; everyone is screaming it, people in their condos as we're going back, "Packers 14, Bears 0." So I won't be distracted, but I'll definitely ask at each green and each tee if the volunteers know what the score is.

 Q. So if it's a close game and the Packers are winning and you're making a lot of putts, just tell whoever is with you, just don't tell me if something bad happens. 
 MARK WILSON: No, it's all right. It's funny how we fans are. I don't have anything to do with the game or any outcome, but I still get nervous. So I guess I know what my wife feels like and my family what they're watching me play golf. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT