WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
February 4, 2011
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Can we get some comments? 11-under par right now, long day, long tournament, just some comments on how you stand. 
 MARK WILSON: I feel good about it, just hoping to get it in by Sunday if we can. We played an extra hole than I thought we would have. We're doing the best we can, just the frost. Hopefully it doesn't come out tomorrow again as bad and we can get kind of caught up. It would be really cool to get the second round in tomorrow night and play 36 on Sunday.

 Q. We are going 70 and ties and we'll have a Monday finish. 
 MARK WILSON: Oh, okay, all right, scratch that then.

 Q. You're obviously off to a great start to the year. You've already got a win under your belt. Obviously still playing great. Some thoughts on your confidence? 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, just feel -- just more calm than I ever have, and it's just translating into a lot better got shots, and I'm trying to use all the energy I can to try to get it where I want it to go, and if it doesn't -- I missed like my first four fairways in the afternoon, and it didn't really bug me. I missed the fairway on 15 and didn't have a chance to go for it in two, it just doesn't bug me anymore. It used -- I used to get mad at myself for missing a fairway on a reachable par-5, and now it's like, we'll just chip it down there and wedge it close. My wedges have been good, and I'm rolling the ball good, and therefore scores have been low this year.

 Q. You had the weird schedule the tournament that you won. Didn't you play 36 the final day?
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, we didn't get started until Friday because of all the rain on Wednesday and Thursday, so yeah, played 36 on Thursday with six minutes in between rounds. It was a long day that day, and it helped me just kind of focus on what I had to do instead of worrying about my position. 

 Q. How much time did you have between rounds today? 
 MARK WILSON: We had 20 minutes, so a little bit easier to go and grab a sandwich. I prefer that versus -- 45 minutes, then kind of what do you do? Do you hit some balls? What do you do? It was kind of nice. It was a good flow. I was playing well, so I just wanted to keep rolling.

 Q. The birdie on 15 really started a good stretch for you. Take us through those next four or five holes. 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, hit a good shot there on 16 and misread the putt. 
 Then 17 did what I was supposed to, just short of the green, chipped it up to a foot and made it.
 18, hit a nice wedge in there and made about a 10-footer.
 Then 1, hit a smart shot pin-high right and rolled in a nice 20-footer. 
 Actually 3 I should have birdied. I was in between hybrid and 3-wood going for it in two, and I hit a good 3-wood, just went over, and an impossible spot in the bunker, and I was forced just to make par there.
 Then I hit a nice 7-iron on 4, rolled in about a 12-footer for birdie.
 Had a good chance on 5, as well, but tough pin there so I hit it to about a 25-footer and two-putted and then they blew the horn.

 Q. What has been your previous experiences on this course?
 MARK WILSON: All been good. I've made the cut every time. I was leading after two rounds last year, and I finished in the top 10 the first time I played it in '08, so I've had a lot of good experiences here.

 Q. You've basically become a dominant force on TOUR now; is that what you're saying?
 MARK WILSON: That's the idea. I feel pretty good about it right now (laughing). We're just going to ride this train as long as I can.

 Q. The Ping visors, they made the green and gold?
 MARK WILSON: I wore one yesterday, and then tomorrow obviously the green-out thing, I'm going to wear the green one for the Waste Management/Packers, and then I've got a gold one for Sunday. My caddie went and got a Packers head cover, so we've got that all -- been using that all week. I'm on. If I miss the game, so be it. I want to do it here. I think when we play on Sunday I'll miss part of the game, but it's dark by 6:00 so we'll only miss the first half, and we'll go from there.

 Q. Anything at 16, anything good? 
 MARK WILSON: I played with Jerry Kelly and Rocco Mediate, and they love Rocco. They were screaming and hollering for Rocco. But yeah, nothing crazy this time. I've learned to just enjoy them, and it's really fun if you just embrace the situation. 

 Q. Did you hear anything specific that was --
 MARK WILSON: No, no. They always like to throw in my birthday because I was born on Halloween. I always hear that one every year, so hopefully they'll come up with something a little bit more unique. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT