SONY OPEN IN HAWAII
January 15, 2011
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Mark, or maybe I should say Houdini after that birdie on your 18th hole, the par-5, and I really thought that ball was in the hazard but you were able to play it. 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, it was a really bad tee shot, just trying to hit a little stinger out there and blocked it way right. I thought it was certainly in, but it was over there and it was up against a rock and some branches in the hazard, but I really thought I could get a clean hit on it. I was wrong, but it came out low and left in between a couple of trees and it got to the fairway and then I had a perfect yardage for my 3 hybrid, hit it in there six feet and made the putt. It's a crazy game.

 Q. You know, it's one thing to catch a break but it's another to take advantage of it, and that's what you did. 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, that's what I keep trying to tell myself. I've already had three or four things happen to me this week where it could have gone either way, make a double, and I turn it into a par or birdie, that's really been the difference in my score.

 Q. It's going to be a big Sunday. Talk about the 36-hole finish for you. 
 MARK WILSON: Actually I've done it before, and it's amazing, you pace yourself for it, and before you know it you're in that final round. It goes by really quick for us players, and a lot can happen. You hope the viewers and the listeners enjoy the tournament tomorrow because who knows who's going to win. A guy could finish on the 9th hole like Derek Lamely did in Puerto Rico and win the tournament. Anybody's ballgame. 

 Q. Can you just talk overall about your game, please? 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, you know, mentally I'm in a good frame of mind. I'm just really trying to focus on my short game really in my practice sessions and just not getting too high or low out there. I know I'm going to hit some bad shots like I did there. I made a couple bogeys early today, and instead of getting down on myself I know there's going to be a lot of good things that happen. Everything feels in pretty good order, really not mechanically thinking about anything, just trying to make the ball go to my target.

 Q. And how about this course? How is it playing?
 MARK WILSON: Miraculously pretty good after watching Thursday, looking at the fairways from my hotel room, big puddles. So hats off to the staff here at Waialae and all the hard work they had to get the course ready. We played the ball down today, no lift, clean and place, and it's looking great. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT