MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA-CANCUN
February 17, 2010
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: Mark, just get you to look back at your win here last year. I think it's 64, round two, and then just solid play throughout the week. If we can just get some comments on your reflections on the tournament.  
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, I came in not feeling great about my game. Didn't start the year off great. But something clicked with both my playing and ball-striking kind of that first and into the second round. It kind of snowballed on me, and I just kind of kept the momentum going all weekend.   
 Got off to a good start in really windy conditions Sunday. I mean, the wind is what I really remember from the week on Sunday. It came from a different direction.   
 It was tough, but managed to get enough birdies early on, and I just kind of hung on and managed to pull out the win by a couple shots.  
  
  Q. Okay. Talk about your season up to this point and your expectations for the week.  
 MARK WILSON: Um, similar to last year, really. I haven't really played near to my potential that I would like it. Par for the course for me usually with the long off-season up there in Chicago and not playing much. So I'm just kind of playing my way into the season.  
 Game felt pretty good there at the Sony Open. Played well there. Made the last couple cuts, but finished back in the pack. So I'm managing my game okay, it's just I'm not -- you know, everything doesn't feel just right.   
 But that's similar to the way it felt coming in here, so maybe that's a good sign.  
  
  Q. You got your first win back in 2007 at the Honda Classic. Talk a little bit about the next year and defending and what it takes when you're trying to defend and just trying to keep all of the distractions to the side.  
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, feel like I did okay that week. Ended up missing the cut, but that was just kind of some poor play late in the first round that kind of put me behind the eight ball.  
 Yeah, kind of all the media stuff is over by the time the tournament starts and everyone starts at even par again, so it's like a new tournament. The only thing I'm gonna draw on is all the positive and all the good memories that I had the year before.   
 I did the same thing at Honda, and it was just a nice calming feeling out there. The thing that you struggle with is starting to compare your score in the current year based on the year before. That will just get you into a bad mindset, because probably not gonna duplicate after two rounds.   
 So that's kind of where it's at. I'm looking forward to defend thinking week.  
  
  Q. And finally, you just came off the golf course in the Pro-Am. Just talk a little bit about the course and the conditions out there.   
 MARK WILSON: It's as good as ever. The course doesn't seem is to change too much from what I've seen. This is my third trip around it since '07. I played '09 and this year.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT