U.S. BANK CHAMPIONSHIP IN MILWAUKEE
July 16, 2009
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Mark Wilson thanks for joining us after a 2-Under par today. A couple shots off the lead, but with some tough conditions a pretty solid round. Maybe some opening comments.
   MARK WILSON: Yeah, the wind was definitely the big factor today. The greens are firming up and getting a little faster, certainly much faster than we noticed on Tuesday and Wednesday.
   And then, yeah, I didn't hit very many fairways today, but scrambled well and made some good long par putts. Had a bonus. Made it from the front fringe on 4 from about 60 feet for birdie, so that was a big bonus. 
   After bogeying 8, just played No. 9 a little aggressively. Drove it up just short of the green, chipped it up there and made about a 10-footer for birdie. It was a nice way to finish.
   JOEL SCHUCHMANN: Take some questions.

   Q. Tag was just in here talking about the wind. It only feels when you're out there spectating like it's blowing ten or fifteen miles an hour, if that. Is it the way it blows through the trees that makes it tough?
   MARK WILSON: Well, yeah. I think it's above the trees and everything that you can't really see it. I hit a good drive, what I thought was on 6, and just watched to keep sailing right. 
   I was like, Oh, catch a piece of the fairway. And then it landed right of the fairway and then bounced right. It was just really tough, the side winds especially. 
   So, yeah, the golf ball obviously is affected more than you feel. 

   Q. I think you also bogeyed 3, came back and got a birdie on 4. 
   MARK WILSON: Uh-huh.

   Q. Talk about bouncing back from that bogey and your approach on 4. 
   MARK WILSON: Yeah, 3 I just kind of misclubbed and then hit somewhat of a poor shot. Another crosswind. They were trying to figure out, is it hurting a little bit, is it helping a little bit. It was certainly off the right, and we just couldn't figure it out. Turns out it was hurting a little bit. I tried to hit a hard 8-iron and came up a little short and then made a bogey. 
   Then 4 I hit a great shot out of the right rough with a hybrid. One of those was a bad lie, but if I can just kind of get it running up through the fairway through the neck between the bunkers I knew it would work out. It had gotten through there, and then I was left with about a 60-footer, which is about dead straight. It just went right in. 
   No really different approach. Tough after making bogey on one of the easier holes on the course to come to probably the hardest one on the course and expect to bounce back, thankfully that's what happened.

   Q. Tag was just in here talking about the trouble he had on No. 6. Take us through what happened with you and how the wind...
   MARK WILSON: Yeah, it's a reachable par-5 obviously with the wind just kind of side of there. I was aiming down the left side. Felt like I hit a good one. Just kind of kept drifting right. 
   The right trees make it really tough to even be able to punch it down there to have a wedge. So I just punched it out. Had a 7-iron in and got a nice little bounce off the bunker and two-putted from 20 feet. 
   So, yeah, you can get in some trouble on the right there. It's better to miss it in the left rough if you do, even though it's pretty thick down there. Obviously most of us standing up on that tee are expecting to knock that thing on in two and make a birdie.

   Q. So the wind is tough to pick up on that tee there?
   MARK WILSON: Well, we know it's left to right. It's just amazing how much you got to play or draw back into it, whatever it is. It's just funny on those crosswinds sometimes. You stand up and you aim down the left edge of the fairway and hit a bullet that the wind doesn't touch, so you're in the left rough.
   You just let it go a little bit to the right and it goes far right. So the margin for error is a little tougher on a day like today.  
  End of FastScripts 
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT