THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 7, 2009
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You guys looked like you started out relaxed, having a good time. Did it change at some point?   
 MARK WILSON: No. I think we both just made more mistakes than we did the first three days. And my putter didn't -- I made some great putts, but I also missed some really little putts. That was kind of the difference. As I was thinking about it, I didn't really leave myself too many short putts all week because I was making most of the first putts. I guess that came back to haunt me a little bit and I missed a few today.   
 That was a bummer, but I was happy to birdie the last two to at least make a good week out of it.   
  
  Q. Composure didn't seem to be an issue for either of you in the lead in the last round Sunday. Didn't seem to affect you.   
 MARK WILSON: It's still just playing golf out there. Obviously, I shot a lot higher score today than yesterday, but I was four shots better after three holes. That's what I said yesterday. Hey, if I get off to a better start today, I've still got to keep plugging. Unfortunately, I didn't play as well coming in as I did yesterday.   
  
  Q. Was it fun to be in the middle of that wild stuff that happened between 8 and 14?   
 MARK WILSON: I didn't pay attention, to be honest. I heard some roars, and I looked over and saw Tiger eagled 11. I don't know what happened, but last I looked at the board was on 15. I think there were three guys at 10 or something. So I thought I still had a chance if I could get three birdies coming in.   
 After bogeying 16, I was kind of, well, let's try to get a good finish. I peeked on the board at 17 and saw Tiger was at 12. He birdied the last two?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 MARK WILSON: So I guess it was over at that point. But we're playing for FedEx Cup and money and world ranking points. So every shot helps.   
  
  Q. What do you take away from this tournament as a whole?   
 MARK WILSON: I came into it not playing fantastic golf but solid. Just got to believe in myself. If I do that, I'll succeed.   
  
  Q. How good was the 65 today? Just didn't seem like that was out there for anybody else.   
 MARK WILSON: If you hit it in the right spots, you can. The wind was swirling a little bit, caught me a couple of times.   
 Those greens are so quick, and obviously he must have made some putts. It's an incredible round. Just like Geoff Ogilvy's 63 yesterday. If a guy hits a score like that, you just kind of shake your head.   
  
  Q. Is that three-putt going to stick with you for a while? Chipping out, I think.   
 MARK WILSON: You know, it's just one of those things where I play so many competitive rounds, I'll forget about it tomorrow. I've got to play 36 holes and try to qualify for the U.S. Open.   
 You know, it's something my mind wasn't where I needed it to be on that first putt. I was making too big of a deal out of it. When you miss that, I got a little scared on the next one and shocker I missed it. So it's all in the head, and I know that. That was a mental lapse.   
 I had a few more than the winner did this week.   
  
  Q. Since you said you're qualifying for the Open this week and you have the pressure being in the leader group, do you feel like you're going to have that advantage of just having to be competitive and the momentum going into that?   
 MARK WILSON: I think maybe -- I hope I can just carry it over because I'm playing well. You know, fatigue might be an issue. 36 holes is a lot. It's already 6:00 at night, and I've got to tee off at 7:30 tomorrow morning. That's going to be the hard part, getting a good night's sleep and get ready.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT