THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT
June 6, 2009
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JOHN BUSH: We've got one of our co-leaders here. After a 3 under par, 69, Mark Wilson, great playing out there today. If we can just get some comments on your round. 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah. Just got off to kind of a slow start, bogeyed the first three. Three 5s on the card to start is never good. But birdie on 4 really turned things around here. Nice 4 iron there about ten feet, rolled the putt in, and just felt a lot more comfortable after that. Had a few long putts drop for me. Excited about the shot I hit at 15 and an iron on the 16 that led to a couple birdies coming in. That's about the story right there. 
 Made a good save on 18 too out of the front bunker. It was kind of in between clubs. Went with the lesser one. Came up a little short but made a nice slick six footer down the hill for par. 
 JOHN BUSH: Currently tied with Matt Bettencourt with 9 under par. Host of players with a chance tomorrow. Just get your comments on the final round and what you'll need to do. 
 MARK WILSON: Boy, 68 or 67 would be fantastic. You just never know with this game. 
 Yeah, just go out there and -- in my other wins, I don't really look at the scoreboard at all until I really feel it gets to be a distraction to not know. So that would probably be around later in the round. If I feel like I'm in contention to win, I'll probably look at the board around 16 or 17. 
 But before that, I'm just going to keep playing my game because, no matter how big of a lead you can compile, those holes coming in can grab you.  
 Q. Considering some of those guys behind you who were probably, if they get something going, they're going to be -- the crowd's going to be roaring, one in particular. But would that get you maybe to maybe want to look at a board sooner than you usually do? 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah, possibly. To kind of see, yeah, how things are shaking out. Yeah, we have an idea how things are playing. If you keep hearing roar after roar after roar of a group that you know where someone is ahead, it's like, oh, boy, they must be 6, 7 under for the day. Then you kind of want to look and see, oh, boy, I've got to go lower than I thought I might have had to. 
 It's funny, playing so much tournament golf that I played, we all kind of know how the course is playing and how everyone else around us is shooting without looking at the board. 

 Q. Mark, what did you shoot at Mayakoba to win? That was an opposite field. 
 MARK WILSON: Pgatour.com probably has it. 

 Q. You might have it off the top of your head. 
 MARK WILSON: I don't remember. I think it was 13 under because J.J. Henry was second at 11. Almost positive it was 13 under for the week. 

 Q. What did you have working good that week, and what's working good for you this week and overall just kind of the idea. 
 MARK WILSON: Patience level on both. There's always going to be trials in every round of golf that you play. You hope that it's smooth sailing. It never really happens that way. I guess I didn't get -- in both cases, I didn't get alarmed or shocked by a few miscues. 
 Like today, for instance, bogeying the first three, I just kind of -- I was feeling a little down about it, but just knew that there was a lot of golf coming up and managed to make seven birdies coming in after that. 
 So I think that's what stands out in my head that I just was patient and didn't let those things scare me. 

 Q. I asked Matt Bettencourt the same thing. Who's, I guess, maybe the most imposing figure that you've ever had chasing you when you've been in contention in a tournament? Is it going to be any different tomorrow with some of the names that you've got? 
 MARK WILSON: Once again, there's -- you know, golf is an individual sport. So it's really me controlling -- you guys hear this all the time, I'm sure, but it's the truth. It's me controlling what I do. If my belief in myself and not worrying about what anybody else is doing on the course. 
 If I take care of what I do, then that's the best -- that's all I can control. I think that, if I do that, I will have a great chance of winning. If I get -- if I start thinking about what everyone else is doing around and, oh, my gosh, that guy's got all these major championships and he's won so many major tournaments. He should win this, and I shouldn't, then you bet I'm going to lose. That's the big challenge tomorrow is to focus on what I'm doing and block everything else out. 

 Q. Matt was saying that he plays really well on bentgrass, and your record is good on Bermuda, isn't it? That's just kind of interesting. Do you like putting these greens? 
 MARK WILSON: I grew up in Milwaukee. These are the type of greens I grew up playing, good bent. I live in Chicago, and that's what I play out at Cog Hill and Butler National. You have to adjust in this game. 
 Bermuda grass has come a long way since I remember the thick bladed Bermuda that we played in college to what they have now at places like Doral and PGA National. It's really smooth stuff. It's not that much different to me. 
 You know, going from course to course, you'd better adjust. Otherwise, you're going to be left behind. 

 Q. Were conditions today pretty much the same as you've had the first two days? 
 MARK WILSON: I think they were a little easier. The course firmed up a little bit, but there was less wind. There were -- I thought the course played a little easier today. 

 Q. Any birdies stand out today? You want to take us through those. 
 MARK WILSON: Probably the one on 15 stands out in my mind. I hit just a pretty 3 wood in there from a good number. Landed about six feet short of the hole and then went 30 feet by the hole, and I had a great looking eagle and hit a good putt that I thought I made. I trickled by four feet and made that one coming back. That's the one I'll think about over and over tonight to take me in tomorrow. 
 JOHN BUSH: What was the number? 
 MARK WILSON: We had 249 to the front, and that's pushing a 3 wood for me, but I just hit it just right. It went a little further than normal, thank goodness. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT