MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA - CANCUN
February 27, 2009
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: Talking about conditions out there, why don't you give us a recap about how that affected your round.
 MARK WILSON: Yeah. It was windy, which is what you expect when you come here. It's windier when you get close to the ocean, but the course is in fantastic shape and the greens are rolling at a nice speed. That's kind of the difference for me this week than the prior tournaments this year because I'm rolling with the puts.
 NELSON SILVERIO: Questions? 

 Q. (Inaudible).
 MARK WILSON: I guess it's a nice change, different grass this week, the Bermuda. I also did a checkup with a putting instructor for seven weeks up in Chicago. I was in Chicago. 
 He works with a bunch of different guys down here. I just did a quick thing Sunday night before I came out here, and he tweaked a little bit my setup, and all of a sudden it gave me a little more confidence, and the putts have been going in.

 Q. Was it something mechanical?
 MARK WILSON: It was just the setup. He found I was a little bit too much weight on my right foot, so I put more weight on my left foot to give it more 50/50, and it felt a lot better.

 Q. Talk about your birdies. 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah. I made a few of those. On 10 I made a nice 15-footer for birdie to start the day. And then birdied 15, made about a 10-footer there. And 17, about a 15-footer, 18 hit a nice shot, I made a four-footer for birdie. 
 And then 3 I hit a real nice one -- three was playing tough, but I hit a 5-iron, tough pin, but three feet and made it. 
 5 about 10 feet and made that one on 18. So kind of a good range. I made some short ones and also had my share of 20-or-so-footers going in.

 Q. Can you talk about how you're doing so far? Is it just the putting what you needed or how has your whole game been?
 MARK WILSON: It's been a little rusty, I guess. The last few years I've taken a couple months off. Living up in Chicago I put the clubs away. 
 This year has been a little more different. So it's kind of creeped into -- my putting has kind of creeped into the rest of my game. 
 I felt like I hit it closer and all that kind of stuff, and it kind of snowballed, and it's amazing how different you feel over every shot when you feel like you're going to make your fair share of putts.

 Q. Can you talk about the off-season? 
 MARK WILSON: Yeah. After the last time I played was Ginn, November 1st, and other than a little get-away to South Carolina in the middle of December, I didn't play until January 8th.

 Q. Is that why you weren't here last year? You played here in '07. 
 MARK WILSON: I did. No. I think the main reason I wasn't here was because I played in Kapalua a few years ago, and I had already played in six tournaments and it was time to take a week off. 
 That was the only reason, because I love the golf course, love coming here. The people are great. The weather is fantastic, so just needed a break last year.

 Q. This course seems like it fits your style. You had the victory in '07. Is that course and this one kind of similar?
 MARK WILSON: I feel like it. The grasses are similar and the big premium on driving is great. The greens are similar grass, too. So yeah, they're very similar.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT