NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 16, 2008
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  You've got to be relatively precise off the tee but you don't have to be long; do you feel that way coming; do you like this golf course in the past?   
 MARK WILSON:  First time playing.  This is a function of winning the Honda last year.  I never got to play in this tournament.  It's nice to be here.   
 Yeah, it's a good course.  You have to hit it straight.  It's got some length, though.  12, 13, there's some good par 4s out there.  But managed to putt really well this week.  That's really what's kept me in the game.   
  
  Q.  How has the course been changed from the first two rounds?  Real windy and today a little more calm and nice conditions.   
 MARK WILSON:  Still seems like there's some swirling wind out there.  You have to be aware of a little breeze this way or that way can change your club selection by a club or something like that.   
 You know, the greens are getting a little firmer, just like most tour events.  Come tomorrow they will be even firmer and you have to start playing for a bounce instead of the ball just sitting and stopping.   
  
  Q.  You had a pretty decent West Coast, and in two weeks you're going to be defending for the first time on the PGA TOUR; can you talk about what the year has been like and what it's going to be like going into the Honda in TWO weeks?   
 MARK WILSON:  Well, it's gone by really quick.  I'm surprised it's already coming up.  I'm excited to go in there with a frame of mind to just enjoy being there.  I've had some success there and try to keep my expectations low, but know that I played well there the year before.  And hopefully the people in Palm Beach will be behind me and reminding me of my good play the year before and I'll try to feed off of that.   
  
  Q.  How much better or different a player are you now than you were a year ago at this time?   
 MARK WILSON:  I guess maybe I'm a little more consistent it seems like so far.  If you look at my scores, it seems like the first round this week could easily have been 75, 76, but I grinded it out and shot 70.   
 I think maybe just hanging in there a little better, that's probably the only difference.   
  
  Q.  Any special plans for your caddie, keeping his mouth shut?   
 MARK WILSON:  I'm to the even going to talk about that.  It's kind of a bad joke.  It's all right.   
  
  Q.  Where does this put you for tomorrow, you're 5-under --   
 MARK WILSON:  4-under.   
  
  Q.  The leaders are at 12, so that's eight shots.   
 MARK WILSON:  Yeah, I haven't really looked at the board, but yeah, I guess there were two at 11 last time I looked.  Just go out there and play the best I can and see how high up I can finish.   
  
  Q.  Was the mind-set going into today, you had it going for a little while, did you feel like you could make a move today and get in there?   
 MARK WILSON:  Yeah, I made a bomb on the first hole for eagle so it was a good kick-start, and then I just kind of hovered around 1-under, 2-under, 3-under all day long.   
 18 was kind of a bummer.  Hit a great drive and had 8-iron in there and tried to steel one in there and hit the front fringe and unfortunately stuck and I 3-putted there, and that was kind of a bad way to end the day.  But I'll certainly sleep on all of the good putts that went in and the good shots and we'll try again tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT