THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 2, 2007
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  4-under 66 in the second round, congratulations.  What are some keys to that?   
 MARK WILSON:  Finally started reading the greens better.  Made some putts on the back, four birdies in a row and started reading the green much better.   
  
  Q.  Under difficult conditions, how do you find that many birdies out there?   
 MARK WILSON:  I hit some quality shots and then the putts went in.  You've got to hit a lot of good shots, and then I rolled in the 6-footers I had for or the 15-footer, whatever it was I left myself.   
  
  Q.  Golf could be so simple when you're striking it well, how do you take that into the weekend?   
 MARK WILSON:  Just keep looking at the target and try to make birdies.  Obviously if you're hitting -- it's a very fair course in the sense that if you don't keep it in the fairway, you make bogeys very easily.  But I happened to keep it in the fairway and take advantage of my iron shots and the greens are receptive.   
  
  Q.  Just how good of a round is 66 on a day like this when the scoring average is going to be something like 73?   
 MARK WILSON:  It's funny when things click, it didn't seem like -- I felt like I played a great round but it's funny how the ball starts going in, versus yesterday I felt like I played similar, shot 72.   
 So it is a great round.  I'm thrilled.  Left a little bad taste in my mouth, I missed about a 5-footer on the last hole for birdie, but hit a good putt and that's all I can ask for.   
  
  Q.  The lead is going to be either 5 or 6, really, I would say anybody that makes the cut is probably in the ballgame because somebody that's 4-over shoots 65 tomorrow, they are probably right back in it.   
 MARK WILSON:  No doubt.   
  
  Q.  When it's all bunched up like that, what's your mind-set going into the weekend?   
 MARK WILSON:  Just try to keep doing what I was doing, keep making birdies.  Like I was telling him, the greens are something.  The ball stops usually, unless it's downwind, a 5-iron will stop close to the pitchmark.  So if you're hitting quality shots, you can attack a pin.   
  
  Q.  Will was in earlier at 3-under, he said, If I shoot even par rounds, I'll take my chances and see what happens with that.   
 MARK WILSON:  Yeah, I'll take a couple 1-unders on the weekend, we'll see what happens.  I don't know what the forecast looks like but the course is just going to get firmer and tougher as the week goes on.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT