FUNAI GOLF CLASSIC AT WALT DISNEY WORLD RESORT
October 22, 2005
Mark Wilson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.
Is that a career low?
MARK WILSON:   In terms of par, I shot 63 out last year at the Canyons out in Vegas.  So 9 under would be the lowest for 18 holes.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Talk about your day out there.

I see a lot of birdies on this card.
MARK WILSON:  Yes, I started out and didn't hit the greatest shot but made about a 10 footer for par.  In the back of my mind I hadn't made a bogey all week so I was thinking about that all day.  I thought if I can miss one of these par putts it would be actually good so I can forget about having a bogey free week, but I kept making them so it was good.

Then I missed about a 10 footer for par on 16.  The birdies were falling.  I hit a lot close.  I hit it to about a foot on the second foot; and made about a 4 footer on the 4th hole; and almost made a 1 on No. 6.  I used a rescue club there.  It rolled about a foot past.  233 yard par 3, hoe hum par 3.

Made a nice 15 footer on the 8th hole after laying up.  No. 9 was kind of a turning point.  I hit in the fairway bunker and hit a rescue club out of the fairway bunker on the green and almost made the putt.  It could have been a disaster there.  It's not the easiest shot hitting 220 yards out of the bunker.  And then knocked it on 10 and 2 putted and then got on a string there.  On 12, made a nice one from the fringe.

13, got up and down.  Drove it close to the green.  They moved the tee up front this year, which is a fun hole for us.  You can drive it close to the green and made a three footer.

Rolled in a nice 15 footer on 14.

And then 15, almost made a 1 there, too.  The guy said I missed it by a inch.  So I had a foot tap in there for birdie with a 6 iron.

16, I got a little confused with the wind.  I decided to hit a soft 7 and just pulled it bad and missed the green.  That and the first hole were the two bad iron shots I hit today.

I came back on 17 and it lipped out, actually, my second shot and tapped in for birdie.  I hope TV got that.

And then 18 almost holed the bunker shot for par.  18 was playing long.  I kind of heeled a drive out there and I had 212 left.  I got up and out of the bunker, so par is good.  The last three holes just play long, so I was happy to get through those even par.

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Questions, please.
Q.  I think Palmer was 6 down when he won here last year, and you just torched it to the tune of 63.  What do you figure is still doable tomorrow deficit wise in terms of the field?  How wide and how deep do you still have a chance, given that the conditions are roughly the same?
MARK WILSON: I think they are going to be about the same.  I thought we were going to get 15 mile an hour winds and it never happened.  Ryan shot 62 last year in the final round.  As I looked on the board, I saw a couple of 63s, and not my brother, but Dean Wilson shot 64.  So there were a lot of low scores.  It could happen again tomorrow.  It depends on what the leaders do.  I haven't looked at the board.

Yes, sure, 5, 6 back has a chance.  You go out and shoot 10 under, and the leaders shoot 3  or 4 under, which is usually a pretty good score, but out here you get left.  Five or six back has a pretty good chance.
Q.  So you never played with Sorenstam?
MARK WILSON:  I get that every month, that I played with Annika.  No, that was Dean.
Q.  What happened to your tan and all that stuff?
MARK WILSON: Yes, we get confused a lot.
Q.  Talk about your spot on the money list.  Did you tell him that was going to come up?

JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  We talked about it and he said he didn't really want to talk about it.
MARK WILSON:  It's a good position I'm in.  Coming into the San Antonio week about a month ago, I was 180th or something and then had a good week there.  So now I'm right around 150.  I really didn't want to look, just do the best I can coming in and see if I can avoid that Q School thing.  I know I'm right around 150.

In the back of my mind, I figure about $200,000 is what I need to make, and I'm going to try to do that.  There are all these guys that play well at the end of the year.  It's amazing all we don't get nervous and don't get the job done.  There's always a few that are a great story at the end of the year and maybe I can be one of them this year.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
MARK WILSON: No, I'm entered, so if I can play my way in, I will definitely be in Tampa.
Q.  (Inaudible)?
MARK WILSON:  Just hitting a few iron shots close and having those foot and a half putts for tap ins really helps, and rolled in a few.  I had a couple of putts where I didn't want to hit them, pushed them like two inches, but they happened to break more and go right in the middle of the hole.  It was one of those days where everything worked out really well.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT