NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
June 1, 2019
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You've obviously been here before, how much of that experience do you take as you prepare for Game 2?
DANNY GREEN: I try to take as much as I can.  Obviously every experience is different, every experience is new.  Every team you play with and play against is different and new.  But I think it helps in the sense that a little bit more comfortable probably than the guys that have never been here.  Either way it's not something that you get used to or comfortable doing.  It's still a big stage and against champions, a team that you really are trying to beat.  So you got to stay locked in and focused.
Q. You played on some really great defenses in your career in San Antonio, how do you compare those units with the one you're on right now?
DANNY GREEN: I think our defense is pretty good.  I think also San Antonio our offense played a great defense for us as well.  The way we moved the ball it allowed us to get good shots, which it allowed us to get back and play good defense.  Obviously with Timmy back there who was great, it's hard to compare anybody to him, but Marc is really good, Kawhi is very good, K-Low, Pascal, all the guys have done a really good job of switching down the line and taking pride and putting effort in the floor, just communicating.
That's by any means not easy at all, guarding that team that we're playing against at this stage.  So it's very hard and we have to communicate even better and try to be more crisp in this game.
Q. Tell me about how a guy like Steph or guys like yourself are able to relocate.  Like you are on everyone's scouting report and then somehow they still get open for shots?
DANNY GREEN: Their offense is built off that basically.  Our offense at times is, but really when we push the pace is when we get more open looks, we're able to have P at the rim, K-Low, Kawhi attacking them, me on the perimeter, sometimes Marc on the perimeter.  It allow us to get easier, open, uncontested looks.  But a lot of times teams know you're going to shoot, so they're going to closeout hard to you.  You try to make a play for yourself or a teammate at the rim, kicking it and then finding space on the other end, and hopefully they fell asleep, just nonstop moving.
But their offense is based on that, all they do is try to find those two guys and run off screens and make sure if they don't got the first shot, they're going to try and get a second or third look somewhere on the other side of the floor.
Q. How much energy does it takes as an offensive player to do that kind of relocating?
DANNY GREEN: It takes a lot of energy, nonstop running.  That's why it's key for us to make them run or make them play defense, and make them run on that end of the floor as well, try to tire them out, take their legs from them a little bit.  But if we continue to keep our pace, it will put more pressure on them and hopefully take some energy away offensively.
Q. Is there something about the way Steph does it that's like unique to him that why -- I mean, he's the most famous shooter in the world, but yet somehow he's still able to squeeze off and get open?
DANNY GREEN: You got an offense built or based around what you do best is shoot the ball and finding you moving off screens.  He's setting screens for other guys, getting himself open, two or three guys setting screens for him or dribble handoffs to find him and looking for him.  It's tough to guard, regardless of who it is.
Obviously he's the best in the world at what he does so it makes it that much tougher, we have to have more than one person guarding and helping on him.
Q. You have been somebody who has played the Warriors in a variety of contexts over the years with different iterations of the team.  A lot of discussion this weekend about similarity between the two sides.  Coach Kerr saying he looks at you guys, he sees the Warriors, he sees something similar. I'm wondering do you see those similarities as somebody who's been on both sides of it?
DANNY GREEN: I think we match up with each other pretty well in the sense that we can go small, we can go big, switch down the line.  We have multiple guys that can do different things.  Honestly, I think we -- I shouldn't say it actually but I think there's a lot of things that we see that are similar in each other and that we match up against each other so it's really the team that's going to execute and do it for the longer period of time during the game.
Q. Does that make game planning a little easier because you're like, I know how I would do this against me, or does it make it more difficult because you're like --
DANNY GREEN: It's never easy, but I guess when you're playing against guys similar to you, it allows you to kind of think and know what their strengths and weaknesses are and try to play them toward that.  But at the same time it's a team that you don't see four times a year, you don't see them that often, you don't have their tendencies.  This is the most we'll ever play them throughout the whole year.  And they do different things, as much as you see it on TV, it seems easy, it's like oh what the hell are they doing, they should do that, they should do this.  As easy as it seems, it's tough even switching down the line and talking and communicating because of how well they move.
Q. You guys had a sizable advantage in the transition game in Game 1, is that the key to success in that series do you think?
DANNY GREEN: I think that's been the key for us all year is our pace in transition.  Obviously Pascal's able to get to the rim a little more, so was K-Low, Kawhi, even though they still went before, it was different when there's no Giannis or Brook Lopez or Joel Embiid.  Not saying that they don't have rim protectors of that stature, it's a little different.  So if we run, we get some easy ones where they're on their heels a little bit and there's not many contested at the rim, and when you put pressure on the rim, then you get some open outside looks.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT