NBA FINALS: WARRIORS VS. RAPTORS
May 29, 2019
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How does it feel to be back in The Finals?  
DANNY GREEN: It's been awhile.  But I'm enjoying this right now because I know how hard it is to get back to this stage.   
 Q.  You've obviously been to the NBA Finals before.  How important is it to get that Game 1 win?  
DANNY GREEN: It's important to get every game.  Especially against a team like that, you can't let games slip away or home court slip away.  Because they're very good in their home building.  So we want to try our best to protect home court, get every game possible.   
Game 1 obviously is the first one that's most important.  The next game is the most important one.  Game 1 is the first one of the series, and that's why we want to win.  I think it's very important.   
 Q.  how much do you love the challenge of going against this team?  
DANNY GREEN: You got to.  It's what it's all about.  Obviously, you want them to be healthy because you want to play against a 100 percent team, a championship team.  These are the moments that I look forward to playing against the best, guarding those guys.  This is as good as it gets.   
 Q.  10 days off for the Warriors, five days off for the Raptors.  Do you think there's kind of a pros and cons to both sides?  
DANNY GREEN: For sure.  You can look at it either way.  You can say that it helped them a ton to get healthy or you can say that they might be rusty for sitting off for that many days.  Probably helped us quite a bit to have five days off.  Five days, we might be rusty too.  But regardless, you have to go out and play a Game 1.  It's kind of a feeler game, but at the same time you want to win that game and figure out what adjustments you might want to make or need to make, according to how that team is guarding you or what approach they're taking offensively and defensively.   
 Q.  You're pretty unique as a player in that you're a current player, but you've been able to figure out opportunities yourself away from basketball, specifically with the media.  You have your podcasts and you've done some stuff for Turner and TSN and Sportsnet.  Is it part of a larger plan that you're looking post your career to be in broadcasting or how do you approach it?  
DANNY GREEN: Yeah, it's something definitely I'm looking into.  Obviously just learning some stuff, building a résumé.  Hopefully I have some more good years left in me.  I would like to keep playing as long as possible.  Everybody wants to be Vince Carter, but they can't.  Not a lot of guys get a chance to choose when they can retire.  It's very rare you can choose when you retire.  A lot of guys don't have a choice.  But hopefully I get the opportunity to choose when I'm done.  But when I'm done, it's definitely something I'm looking into doing.   
 Q.  Have those opportunities made broadcasting more interesting to you?  
DANNY GREEN: For sure.  I went to Sportscaster U at Syracuse a couple years ago.  Learned a lot.  Some good hours, long hours.  It wasn't easy, and after that point I look at TV very differently.  You understand how hard it is.  Everybody thinks media is easy to do, but it's not an easy job.  I found out how tough it is to be able to talk as fast or have that voice.  You see the level of difficulty in the things they do.   
 Q.  You're one of the few players on the team who understands what it takes to win a championship.  What advice have you given to your teammates?  
DANNY GREEN: Just all year I tried to prepare them for doing things the right way, being professional.  They know that, though.  It's just the little things.  That's kind of what's going to separate a good part of the game - setting good screens, cutting hard, getting rebounds, chasing down loose balls, getting the 50/50 balls, the effort plays.   
Those go a long way because every possession matters, especially on this stage.   
 Q.  Your coach talks about the strength in numbers and how deep your depth is.  Do you really feel that all way through?  
DANNY GREEN: Yeah I think we have.  Offensively, we're playing great.  And hopefully we get OG back, which will be nice.  It will only make us a deeper team.  I think we have the personnel, the bodies, to be able to defend the way we want to and also get out and run offensively.   
 Q.  Is there a guy better than Kyle at effort plays?  
DANNY GREEN: No, he's definitely the most scrappy guy I've ever seen doing the little things, things that don't show up in the stat sheet but they're in the discussion.  He does take the charges.  He goes after loose balls.  He boxes out.  Just every little thing possible.  He's helped our team a ton.  That's helped us get over a lot or win a series or beat some opponents in certain games.   
 Q.  I think there was a play in Game 6 where he dove twice on the same possession for the same loose ball.  Is that kind of how emblematic it is?  
DANNY GREEN: Yeah, him getting the ball, not giving us a turnover, giving us an extra possession.  Sacrificing his body for us throughout the playoffs.  He's got more ailments, I'm sure, but that's his game and he knows it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT