NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 21, 2017
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Does last night pretty much describe what Manu has meant to this organization?  
DANNY GREEN: Definitely.  It just shows you what he's done here for 15, 16 years.  He was a warrior for us last night.  Couldn't ask for a better night from him.  Just you'd like to win the game when you have him playing that well.  But hopefully he can do it again.  We're going to need it from him and from everybody else, too.   
 Q.  What's the first thing you think of when you think of him?  
DANNY GREEN: I would say warrior.  He's a warrior.   
 Q.  What's the craziest thing you've ever seen him attempt to try on the basketball court?  
DANNY GREEN: Many things.  Many different types of passes, many different types of layups, dunk attempts.  He's reckless kind of, but in a good way.  He puts his body on the line every night.  He'll do it to make a great play for the team.  He has no regard for what happens to his body.  He'll just do what is necessary to win games and to help our momentum.   
 Q.  Did you see that pass when he went through David West's legs before?  
DANNY GREEN: I did.  I've seen that before, yes.  I've seen passes.  I've seen moves.  I've seen Manu do a little bit of everything.  It wasn't as much of a shock for us as it is for you guys.  I've seen it before I even got here, when I was in high school, college.  He's been doing it for a while.  Yeah, I've seen him do a lot of it.   
 Q.  What about off the court?  How would you describe Manu?  
DANNY GREEN: That's a good question.  He's kind of like the teacher of the group, the professor, the problem solver or the guy that always throws out random scenarios, mathematician.  He does a little bit of everything.  But he's very informed.  Always reading up, always wants to learn something, always trying to teach something, random facts, always listening to Spanish radio.  He has a lot going on.  He's a very high-IQ guy on the court and off the court.   
 Q.  What's he reading?  New York Times or --  
DANNY GREEN: I don't know.  He is always reading, looking at something with social media, whether it's the news or listening to Spanish radio, what's going on back home and other parts of the world, other countries.   
He's very well-informed of what's going on.   
 Q.  Do you ever eat like him?  
DANNY GREEN: We've eaten dinners together.  I wouldn't say I eat so much like him.  Not so different at times, but he's probably a healthier eater than I am.   
 Q.  What have you learned from him?  
DANNY GREEN: I've learned a ton since I've gotten here from day one.  I've tried to be a sponge and take everything that he's done -- he makes it look so easy even though it's not easy to do -- and add it to my game and try to find certain areas within the game to take advantage of or find extra points here or extra defensive angles that he takes to be successful.  Obviously he's been great at it.  He's been doing it for years.  So why not emulate or find some things in his game to try to put in your game?   
 Q.  You said you have them right where you want them.  You're not going anywhere, right?  
DANNY GREEN: Exactly.  We're here, man.  Just try to make history.  It's going to be interesting, but tomorrow I think we're going to be OK.  Obviously David Lee is out, but we've got a good group and I believe in our guys.   
 Q.  How good of a fit was David for you guys?  
DANNY GREEN: David has been great for us all year.  He just brought that energy off the bench, that intensity, versatility, great passing big, obviously finishing at the rim using both hands.  We can definitely use him.  But we don't have him.  We have who we have.  Whoever steps on that floor, we're going to have to give it our best.   
 Q.  How are you doing physically?  How is the cramping?  Are you feeling OK?  
DANNY GREEN: I'm OK for now.  Hopefully better tomorrow.  I'll get some treatment.  So far, so good.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT