NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: WARRIORS VS SPURS
May 15, 2017
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Pop seemed very angry with what happened to Kawhi?
DANNY GREEN: Oh, yeah?
Q. Do you care to comment?  Are you guys all as a group angry about what happened?
DANNY GREEN: We're not happy.  I mean, obviously unfortunate situations.  I think he covered how we feel as a group for the most part.  But we just knew what we had in front of us and the opportunity that we had.
We still have the opportunity.  I still believe in our guys, the young guys.  We just have to mentally get them in a positive direction.  Because last night was not just a physical beating, but emotional, mental draining game for us to start.
But we have -- with our best player, we had a great opportunity.  We don't know where he's at today.  I guess we'll figure out after his MRI what the recovery time is.  But we still have a chance to do something special.  But we felt with him we had really good chances.  So, nobody's happy about it.
Q. You're one of the best in the league at guarding jump shooters.  Is that something you just don't do is take that extra slide when a guy's in the air?
DANNY GREEN: Didn't do a great job yesterday.  Let them get off in that third quarter.  That was rough.  But it's just knowing certain guys' strengths and certain guys' weaknesses.
Q. Talking about what Zaza did to Kawhi, the extra move he had under his foot?
DANNY GREEN: Yeah, I've never done that before.  But I'm not a big man.  I don't know his coordination, what he was trying to do.  He couldn't stop, who knows.  End of the shot clock, it happened, the play's over.  There is nothing we can do about it.
It's an unfortunate situation.  As I said, we're not happy about it.  But the way I've guarded jump shooters, as I said, obviously, they would call a foul.  At the time they were arguing that it wasn't a foul.  I think it's pretty clear that it was a foul.  So we have different techniques of guarding shooters.
Q. Do you recall as a team having problems with him last year when he was in Dallas?
DANNY GREEN: I do, and throughout the years.  You know, he's a chippy player.  He's one of those guys that does the dirty work for them and for whatever team he's playing for.  Couple guys on the team have gotten into it with him.  Guys on other teams have gotten into him.  So it's just his style of play, I guess.
But we have to focus on now and not really focus on what happened in the past.  We have to figure a way to move forward and be in a positive direction mentally and fix the mistakes we've made.  Because we still have great opportunities to win that game yesterday.
Q. Has it felt like an emotional roller coaster the past few weeks?  You lose Tony, you win that series.  You lose Kawhi.  Kawhi's in, Kawhi's out.
DANNY GREEN: Yeah, I think yesterday in itself was a roller coaster.  There were a lot of different emotional things going on, and it was still early in the day.  Before 5:00 I felt like I'd been through a lot.
So the Playoffs for us have been rough, but nobody's going to feel bad for us.  We have to continue to go out there and play.  So no Tony, no Kawhi as of right now.  We don't know what's going on.  But I said yesterday it felt like we've been to hell and back in just three hours.  So we'll figure it out.  We'll look at the film, see what mistakes we can fix.  I still believe we can make some special things happen.
Q. Was Pop as animated with you guys this morning as he was with us when he addressed the media?
DANNY GREEN: He's not a guy to -- when he feels strongly about something or emotional about something, to hide it or to bite his tongue.  He lets everybody know how he feels in the room.  He also let us know and addressed us a certain way of how he was going to handle certain things.  We know what we expect from him.  I don't know.  I haven't seen it yet.  I'm sure I'll see it as soon as I get out of here.
Q. You probably see it every week.
DANNY GREEN: Yeah, so...
Q. But we don't have to beep him in this one.
DANNY GREEN: No, no beeps?  That's good.  So we know how he is.  We know how emotional he can get.  It's a serious, emotional time of the year.  So we know what's at stake.  We know the opportunity we have.  There is a good reason for it, for guys to be upset about it.
Q. What do you think the reaction's going to be to Zaza in Game 3 in San Antonio?
DANNY GREEN: I don't know, man.  We're looking forward to seeing what it's like.  But all we can worry about is winning games or trying to win games, putting ourselves in that position.  Last night we had positions, we had times, we had opportunities to still win the game with Kawhi even being out.  We didn't rebound the way we needed to.  We didn't get back in transition the way we needed to.  We didn't follow the game plan the way we're supposed to to get into their shooters and not letting them get hot.
So we'll look at the film, we'll clean it up and worry about winning games, not so much about what Zaza's doing or what the crowd is doing.  We've got to keep their crowd out of it as best we can, and at home, keep our crowd into it.  So whatever we can use to help ourselves and help, you know, get us [going] in that direction would be great.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT