NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 14, 2014
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Can you honestly play any better than you guys did in 3 and 4?   That was such an amazing offensive performance.   
DANNY GREEN:   We played really well.   We shot the ball really well.   In Game 3 and 4, we moved it pretty well and shot it pretty good.   But there is always a game you could play better.   Obviously, we're not going to play perfect.  
   
 Q.   How?   
DANNY GREEN:   Make more shots, I guess.   Make every shot.   Get more stops, play more defense.   If that was the case, there would be an even bigger differential in games.   There is a reason why other teams are pretty good and why they score and why we score, because you're not going to play the perfect game.   You're not going to play perfect defense.   You're not going to shoot‑‑ every shot you shoot is not going to go in.  
   
 Q.   You seem to have a different mentality on the road, and you've been a good road team.   How do you get that same mentality going into Game 5 at home?   
DANNY GREEN:   Well, we worked all season to get home court advantage.   We have to take advantage of it.   Hopefully our fans‑‑ even if we don't play as well, our fans will pick us up and bring us the energy.   
We've got to continue to keep that focus and not rely on just because we're home, we're going to win.   We've got to act like we're coming into it like it's a road game.   
It's a mentality thing.   We have to come up with the same mentality we do on the road and try to protect home court and play with desperation.  
   
 Q.   You played in Cleveland, obviously.   Having been here and in Austin in the Spurs organization, and the success you've had, can you imagine playing anywhere else at this point?   
DANNY GREEN:   No, I can't right now.   I'm blessed to be a part of this organization, a part of this team and play with so many greats.   I'm lucky to play with Timmy, Tony, and Manu.   Hopefully they can stick around for a little bit longer to help my career out.  
   
 Q.   Is there a part of you that's amazed at how dominant the wins have been the last couple games?   
DANNY GREEN:   I wouldn't say amazed, but pretty shocked about how some of the games went about.   Obviously, Game 3 they made a run in the third quarter.   We wanted to set a little short‑term goal by winning the third quarter.   The next game we did that, and it helped us.   It helped us keep and maintain a lead.   
I'm not amazed.   I am a little shocked, but we know they're going to come out harder, hungrier, and more desperate than ever.   So we have to be even more focused and more perfect than the last two games.  
   
 Q.   People have noticed how well conditioned you are.   They seem to get tired.   Do you think you're the better conditioned team?   
DANNY GREEN:   I think we have a very deep bench that helps us.   All season we haven't had to play anybody more than 30 minutes on average per game, which is big for us.   Everybody's getting the chance to rest.   Nobody's played major, crazy minutes, and that's because we have such a deep bench that we can trust them to come in and get the job done.   It helps us keep guys fresh.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT