NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 11, 2014
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DANNY GREEN:   We've got to come out just as aggressive, just as angry, just as desperate from the start of the game tomorrow.   Because we know they're going to come out double of what they were last night.

Q.   You specifically, three‑point shots are a big part of your game, but last night hitting one three, you still ended up at 15 points.   What was the mentality of seeming to take it to the rack more often than Spurs fans might usually see you do that? 
DANNY GREEN:   Yeah, it was kind of weird, a different kind of game for me.   But it wasn't the game plan or anything like that.   It was just playing basketball.   Our game plan is always the same.   Obviously we have certain things, we're not going to tell you everything in the media.   But it's always the same, Spurs basketball is share it, move it, defense, be aggressive and scramble, box guys out, get to the board and push the pace. 
So we moved the ball well, and if you have an open shot, take it.   If not, find it.   Make a play for another teammate, so that's what I was doing.   If I didn't have an open shot created for myself, another teammate drove to the basket, had some open lanes to get lay‑ups and floaters.   I'm sure next game they're going to adjust.

Q.   Did you realize just how hot the team was?   Did anybody have a sense you that you guys were shooting at 91% at one point in the second quarter? 
DANNY GREEN:   I did not know that.   I knew we were shooting it really well.   I knew we had not easy baskets but I knew we had a lot of baskets early in the paint which happened, and I knew we scored a lot.   But I thought it was due to us keeping the pace and getting a lot of attempts up. 
But it makes sense now that we shot a very high percentage that we scored so many points.
Q.   Speaking of aggression, do you listen to more music with more aggression to it to get you going? 
DANNY GREEN:   No, no, not so much.   Not so much.   The music playlist that I listen to is always the same usually.   But for the most part it's just a mindset.   It's just a mentality.   I don't think it has anything to do with anybody's approach or pregame ritual for guys in our locker room.   I think guys do the same thing before the game.

Q.   You attacked their closeouts pretty aggressively, you and Kawhi specifically.   Was there anything that was happening before that that allowed you to get to attack their closeouts so well? 
DANNY GREEN:   Yeah, we hit some shots.   You know, they obviously know that I'm able to shoot from behind the arc a little bit, so they want to close out and not let me get open looks.   Kawhi hit some big threes for us, too, last night and in the previous games.   So they can't just let him shoot behind the line either, so they have to close out on him and it allows us both and everybody else to drive the lanes because we have a good amount of three‑point shooters on our team.   They don't want to‑‑ they know we're one of the better three‑point shooting teams in the league, so they don't want to give us those open looks and have to close out.   That's part of their job. 
So I'm sure they're going to adjust and make different closeout situations on different people, but I expect them to do the same thing, just execute even more crisper and be more aggressive and play even harder for our next game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT