NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 7, 2014
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
    DANNY GREEN:   Moving the ball very well, we had two away games where we haven't found each other as much, and haven't got as many uncontested shots but it's part of the game, part of the business.   Sometimes you shoot well in an arena; some arenas, you're not.   But the biggest thing is you're continuing to shoot with confidence regardless of the situation and circumstances and play basketball.   Our fans had a lot to do with that as well.   
   
 Q.   As far as ball movement at home, do you think it's better because of energy at home created by fans?   
    DANNY GREEN:   I like to think so.   Obviously it helps us make shots and shoot more confidently.   Every time we shoot they're behind us, make or miss, but at home we're more comfortable.   Pop is more on us, we know we have the home court, feel like the ball moves the pace moves and with the high energy, it helps us pick up the pace more.  
   
 Q.   Danny, I know there is nothing you can do with the schedule but is it hard not to overthink things?   
    DANNY GREEN:   Yeah, depending on the team.   We're a veteran team now, we have experience.   We have do have some young guys, most of the guys have been here before.   
    But, you know, for the most part we gotta take it in stride and not really think about it too much.   These guys have been doing it for years before I've been here.   I guess with the time off it does, you know‑‑ it's hard to fight it.   It does make you think a lot about it, but with the team we have and the experience we have, I don't expect us to think too much about it.   At the end of the day, it's a basketball game.   
   
 Q.   Can you go home today and just forget about this?   
    DANNY GREEN:   I hope so.   
   
 Q.   You talk about confidence.   When you go 0‑5, how do you keep that confidence up and turn it around in the fourth?   
    DANNY GREEN:   I would owe it to my bench guys.   My assistants coaches.   All game they continue to tell me to shoot, encourage me, keep shooting.   It's going to go, we're going to need you, it's going to be there.   Tony was in my ear all game, "We believe in you, keep shooting.   You got to keep playing defense.   Keep going at 'em.   Shots will come.   Stay locked in."   
    I did and eventually I broke free and got an open look, two open looks and got a good rhythm going.     
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT