NBA FINALS: LAKERS VS. HEAT
October 1, 2020
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  Q. Dwight was just talking about how difficult it has been to be in the bubble for this extended period of time.  I think I have you guys there 84 days now.  How tough and challenging has it been, and do you guys now start to see the light at the end of this and you can get through this now, you're near the goal line?
 DANNY GREEN:   Well, we have a lot work to do.  First and foremost, I want to make sure I reiterate the bigger picture here, more people get out and vote.  I can't urge you enough.  It's imperative that we all get out there and make sure we vote, make sure we recognize the people that have not gotten justice, the families that have not gotten justice:  Breonna Taylor, George Floyd, Jacob Blake, and there are so many other families, names.
 But, yes, it has been challenging to have a 48-hour ground hog day pretty much throughout our whole time here.  Every two days are the same.  It's either game day or practice day.  We stay on the same campus, eat at the same restaurant, go to the same gym, same home, same hotel access.
 So, yeah.  But, yes, we are at the goal line.  We still have some work to do, but we do see a light at the end of the tunnel.  We know that it's close to the end, it's near.  We do know we only have a certain amount of time before this is all finished, and want to make sure we finish on the right note and continue to get our work done.
 We're not looking ahead, not looking at the light.  We are not looking at the end zone.  We're looking for the next yard, the next first down.  So we got to get those done first before we get to the end zone.
 Q. I was wondering if you could tell me first of all, what it would mean to you to be one of four players, including LeBron, to win a title with three different franchises?  What kind of accomplishment would you consider that?
 DANNY GREEN:   Being lucky, you know, to be on three different teams, franchises.  The accomplishment of winning a titles and stuff, that's what I think about more than anything.  I don't really look about the background or the teams or how many organizations or who else has done it in different organizations.
 Just being fortunate enough to be in this stage that many times, whether I was with the same team or not, or different teams, and being able to hold up a trophy more than once, extremely blessed and fortunate.  Very lucky.
 But, yeah, it's a very humbling list, humbling category to be mentioned with alongside with so many other greats.  For me, I just want to continue to win and compete, so at the end of the day, whatever accolades or categories or lists that I make, it's special and humbling, but just goes to show how long I been playing, and hopefully I can play a couple more years to be able to make some other weird lists that they have out there.
 Q. One other quick question:  When you were a free agent, what was it like to join this cast with the Lakers?  What is it like in your experience to play with LeBron, and especially because you've always understood your particular role and focused on executing it your whole career.  So what has that whole relationship been like to be one of those cast members with LeBron?
 DANNY GREEN:   It's been amazing, man.  They welcomed me since day one.  This is where I wanted to be.  I got everything I expected and more in free agency.  I was extremely happy about where I landed, the deal that we made happen, and the pieces that I'm able to play with and put together as a roster, and to be here, you know, in this position, this opportunity.
 I know I still have a ways to go in doing my job and to fulfilling what I have promised them or what they expect of me, but hopefully -- so we got a couple weeks here left.  We can make that happen, get that done.
 But, yeah, from day one it's been a lot of fun.  They have welcomed me with open arms. I’ve been LeBron’s teammate before, I was a rookie at one time and learning from LeBron then, and now being able to play with him and him actually look at me as somebody that actually changed the game or helped him succeed or win and build his legacy is amazing and it’s very humbling.
 Just been very fortunate and lucky in that sense as well.
 Q. Just wanted to ask you, last night KCP was talking about you and called you Playoff Danny, which to me seems -- why are you shaking your head?  It seems like a pretty good compliment to me.  Don't you take it that way?
 DANNY GREEN:   For sure.  I mean, I'm far from that -- far from where I know I want to be or where I should be, but I just try to do my job the best of my ability and be active.  That starts at the defensive end of the floor and then making the game easier or for the guys around me.
 Offensively I know it'll come, but of course I want to knock down shots and hopefully build rhythm.  Finally starting to see the worm turn for me here, some games here and there.
 But I know we will always have a chance when we have LeBron and AD offensively and defensively.  As long as I do my job we'll always be in games whether I play well on the opposite end of the ball or not.
 If I bring it, it makes it easier for them offensively and they make the game easy for us.  Regardless of how bad we're shooting or playing offensively, they're still going to keep us in in some way, shape, or form.
 Q. KCP mentioned how the team never lost faith in you when you weren't exactly playing up to your standards as a shooter.  Can you talk a bit about the role your teammates played in helping you get through that slump and keeping you confident?
 DANNY GREEN:   They just told me to keep firing, kept believing in me, and kept looking at me and expecting more things, kept expecting it to happen.  They feel like, oh, you're going to hit five, you're going to hit six.  They didn't put no pressure on me, but encouraged me to stay positive.
 And same, we have done the same for each other.  Even when KCP has been in that situation, that scenario, we've all been there.  There's a couple of us trying to find a rhythm.  There are only two guys that are great, and regardless if they have an off night or not, if they do have an off night, they still do pretty well on this team.
 Everybody else outside of those two guys have had struggles finding rhythm, and we have all been there to help support each other mentally and emotionally.
 They've been the backbone, the foundation to everything I've done thus far this year, and they'll continue to be that.  Hopefully I continue to make them proud and hold up my end of the bargain and do my job.
 Q. Danny, given the fact that the NBA -- well, black players make up 75%, nearly 75% of all players in the NBA, yet there are only four African-American head coaches.  Is that something that should be a concern or worry for players?
 DANNY GREEN:   I don't know that I have concern or worry, but it's definitely something that is in the back of our minds and something that we know and something that we would like to change.
 I think a lot of players that have played and are playing hope to coach one day.  I think because of how the world is changing now they'll have that opportunity.
 I think also because of how well they're understanding the game and how the game is growing and how high of an IQ these guys are learning at or the rate they're learning at and how they're studying things, they're giving us those opportunities.
 The fact that those numbers are out there and you know them and other people know them, I think the league -- you would hope -- would try to change that and give our communities, minorities, a fair chance to be in those positions.
 I don't think it's a worry or concern.  We think they're all great and understand the game, but I think the opportunities will come for those in due time.  Hopefully in the near future.
 Q. One more related to Long Island.  During the pause in the season, did you have much chance to get home and touch base with family on Long Island?  Were you able to hold your camp?  And finally, have you been able to bring any family to the bubble with you?
 DANNY GREEN:   I brought my fiancee here.  She's not from Long Island, but I did get a chance to go back for one weekend before I got into the bubble.  When everything shut down my family is a little older, my grandma is older, so I stayed away.  I stayed in California for quarantine most of the time.  I quarantined myself for a while.
 I just worked out, tried to figure out ways to work out.  I did spend one weekend before going into the bubble to go home and see my family when I knew I was kind of cleared and didn't have anything.  Tried to travel safely and make sure everything was clean and visited my dad.  I think it was around Father's Day and my birthday.  Went to go see my family and my grandma and everybody my last trip away -- only trip away during quarantine before I was going to the bubble.
 So I was only there for about a weekend.  Once we get out of here it will be winter there at that point, I'm sure I'll go back at some point in November.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT