NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 6, 2014
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   In the fourth quarter was it at all different from the first three in terms of giving you more space or was it merely that you were not standing still ‑‑   
    DANNY GREEN:   It was more of us moving the ball, taking care of it for the most part.   They didn't change how they guarded me.   They had a couple of breakdowns, us moving the ball.   Early on we turned it over a lot.   We didn't give ourselves a chance to take or make any shots.   In the fourth quarter we took care of it, attacked more aggressively and smarter.   We found the open man, which led to open shots and fortunately it was me a couple of times open.   
   
 Q.   What was the difference between the way you were shooting the ball?   
    DANNY GREEN:   Yeah, the first half I struggled, I think I rushed it a little bit, a little excited, a little antsy, whatever the case may be.   The heat got to me.   I'm sure everybody as well, so I knew I had to get back to the fundamentals and take my time, and if I'm wide open‑‑ if I'm not open, don't rush it.   But if I'm open, take my time and not rush it, get back to the basics.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).  
    DANNY GREEN:   Throughout the years of being in this organization and throughout the league, you know, shooters learn to shoot, regardless of how bad or well they're shooting.   You can't think about the last shot.   You gotta think about the next one and be confident enough that it's going to go in.  
   
 Q.   How do you explain how well you played in the fourth quarter?   That was one of those best quarters in NBA Finals history.   With the heat and everything why were you able to finish like that?   
    DANNY GREEN:   Our bench helped us a lot.   We were able to keep guys fresh, that's why the heat didn't affect us as much.   They have a deep bench, too, but I don't think they rotated as many guys last night and I think they got a little tired.   
    But we attacked aggressively, we attacked smarter and moved the ball and found teammates and didn't turn the ball over, uncontested shots and we got a couple to fall for us.  
   
 Q.   Were you aware of how hot you all were shooting?   
    DANNY GREEN:   Was I aware of how hot I was?   
   
 Q.   The team, 14‑for‑16.  
    DANNY GREEN:   I was not aware but toward the end of the game we did start to pick it up and make shots.   I hit a couple, Kawhi hits a big one, Tony hits a big one in the corner, and you see that, fortunately we're catching a rhythm and hopefully it can lead into Game 2.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT