NBA FINALS: HEAT v SPURS
June 4, 2014
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Anxious to get started?   
    DANNY GREEN:   Yeah, I feel like everybody it.   Couple days off now.   We don't normally have this many days off except All‑Star Break, really.   I'm sure both teams are excited.   
   
 Q.   After last year and what happened, after having the lead going down to American Airlines Arena for Games 6 and 7, how much does that motivate you?   Is that in the back of everybody's mind, even after a year?   
    DANNY GREEN:   I'm sure our guys watch TV, and the main thing on TV that's replaying is the games.   That was our last loss last year.   So I'm sure, the guys that were obviously here last year‑‑ we have a couple of new faces but something we're not going to forget, it was only a year ago, a long time ago.   
       We have worked hard in training camp and all season to get ourselves back to this point.   And we have been lucky enough to fight through a lot of adversity throughout the season and to get some playoff wins and get back to this point.   
   
 Q.   Can you learn from that point, going back to what you did in Games 6 and 7?   Is there something to be learned?  
    DANNY GREEN:   Definitely with every loss and every win there is something to be learned.   We have a couple of different faces and they're new to the system and they have grown throughout the year with the system, but pretty much we have the same group from last year coming back.   
    And I think, you know, with our chemistry this year, it's a little different than last year, deeper bench, I believe, but I feel everybody learned from last year.   And every loss and win that we've had, we've learned something.   We have tried to get better, be the last team standing, we have to be the best, all the little things, perfect, we want to continue to do that.   I think at this point we're almost there.   
    We know we're playing the two‑time defending champs and the best team in the league right now.   It's not going to be easy.   We got to earn it.   
   
 Q.   How different does it feel this year?   
    DANNY GREEN:   Very different.   Last year was my first year experiencing it, so now I kinda know what to expect a little bit and I think everybody else as well.   We have some veterans, of course, but our younger guys, you know, Kawhi, Patty, he was here last year but he didn't really play.   A lot of those guys coming back are able to know what to expect because it's not our first Finals.     
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT