NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 19, 2013
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DANNY GREEN:   Everybody's bodies are a little banged up.   The energy is a little low.   We're hoping we come out with a little more energy, a little more healthy than they are. 

Q.   What do you guys expect from Ginobili for Game 7? 
DANNY GREEN:   You know, Manu, like I said, he has his ups and downs.   Obviously the last game wasn't his best game.   We don't expect him to score 20 and have 10 like he did in Game 5, but we just expect him to play hard, to attack the defense, put pressure on them, and take care of the ball. 

Q.   How do you guys just kind of mentally get past last night and wipe that slate clean and get ready for tomorrow? 
DANNY GREEN:   A day like today, being around each other.   Good chance to have a day off.   Spend some time with your families.   We have to brush it off and move forward.   One more game left, and we have to leave it all out on the floor. 

Q.   Is that hard to do when you were so close to what you had last night? 
DANNY GREEN:   Sure, it's not easy for any team to do that, to lose and bounce back from a game like that.   But we have a veteran group.   And I expect everybody to work past this and come out with a new attitude, a new face and as a new team tomorrow. 

Q.   Danny, what kind of things do you guys talk about amongst yourselves, as players, to forget it, forget what happened? 
DANNY GREEN:   That's the biggest thing.   Get our mental where it needs to be.   We all made mistakes.   Let it go.   We're not going to pick on who did what.   We know what we have to do to win.   We know what mistakes we have to fix.   We've done this all year.   So Game 7 we have to come out and execute. 

Q.   You played in a winner‑take‑all game in college in the Final Four.   Does that experience personally prepare you for this stage?   What does that experience mean to you? 
DANNY GREEN:   Definitely.   Right now it's a one‑game elimination just like the NCAA Tournament.   Experience like that in college has helped me definitely on all levels in every situation.   Every experience that I've been through has helped me. 
Hopefully tomorrow night that experience will show up. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT