NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 15, 2013
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Game 4 you guys committed a lot of errors.   19 errors converting to 21 points for the other side.   In Game 5, how do you reduce your errors?   
DANNY GREEN:   Obviously, we know turnovers have been hurting us.   That's the reason why it's led to their easy offense and also for us losing.     So we have to do a better job of cutting back on turnovers.   Playing better, smarter basketball offensively and also defensively not making mental mistakes, because they're going to capitalize on them.   
   
 Q.   Realistically you guys will be under a lot of pressure.   This will be your last home game here for this season, winning or losing.   If you win, you can get a championship.   
DANNY GREEN:   Every game is pressure.   It's The Finals and every game counts.   Right now it's 2‑2.   It's a three‑game series.   We have a chance to start on our home court.   We have to take advantage.   
   
 Q.   Danny, this is your first NBA Finals, what surprised you about the level of competition or the pressure of being on this stage for the first time?   
DANNY GREEN:   I think the biggest thing for me is staying focused for the whole 48, because it's a very long game.   It seems as if this 48 is longer than the normal 48 during the season.   Whether it's the longer TV time‑outs or I don't know.   It seems the game is a lot longer than normal.   We have to stay focused, all of us, for the full 48 and have less mental lapses defensively and offensively.   
   
 Q.   How did you develop your jumpshot?   Who was your role model as a player coming up?   
DANNY GREEN:   I developed my shot early.   My dad was a shooter.   He didn't play very big, but he put the ball in my hands.   
I watched Michael Jordan growing up.   He wasn't strictly jumpshot, but he was a great player.   The greatest ever to do it.   I think.   Working with Jeff, he's done a great job working with me.   My technique, keeping it the same way each time, raising my percentages, fixing the little things.   
   
 Q.   LeBron struggled through the first three games offensively.   What did you think of his performance the other night?   
DANNY GREEN:   He played well.   They all did.   We knew that was coming.   We expected that to come.   Eventually they're going to have some good games.   They're going to have some big games.   Hopefully all three don't play as well.   Give us some help.   Even if they do, we have to eliminate the mental errors and little mistakes to give ourselves a chance.   
   
 Q.   Why do you think both teams this series have kind of had trouble responding to victories?   
DANNY GREEN:   It's a good question.   I wish I knew the answer.   But it seems as if the team that loses comes out more aggressively the next day and they bounce back.   They get a lot stronger.   Hopefully we can bounce back the way we're supposed to.  
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT