NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 8, 2013
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).  
DANNY GREEN:   Humble.   Especially just he knows we can potentially be.   Night in and night out he gets that from us.   He'll let us know right away if we're slacking and he wants us to pick it up.   If you're not playing the way you should be playing, you probably won't be playing too much.   He'll let you know.   He's great at getting the best out of us.   
   
 Q.   Pop said you guys didn't watch film yesterday.   Mental rest.   What did you see on film today?   How would you describe the session?   
DANNY GREEN:   It was good.   A lot of learning.   A lot of things we can adjust on and do better on.   We know we didn't execute the way we wanted to.   Obviously we didn't shoot as well.   We expect them to shoot better, too, and execute better.   
You know, it was Game 1.   It wasn't as crisp as we wanted it to be.   And hopefully Game 2 we'll come out better.   
   
 Q.   What do you need to work on executing‑wise?   
DANNY GREEN:   Just knowing personnel.   Guarding different guys the way we should guard them in the pick‑and‑roll situation.   Rotating defensively.   Offensively executing and moving the ball.   
   
 Q.   Pop often says he doesn't give any Gipper speeches and you guys have grown.   What does he do to motivate you or is it just something that all the guys together get motivated?   
DANNY GREEN:   A little bit of both.   He doesn't have to give long speeches to motivate us.   It's usually a couple of sentences with a few amount of harsh words that will get you going, light a fire under you.   That works for me.   It may work for some others different.   
He knows each player is different.   I'm sure he knows how to get other guys to react to him.   With me he knows to light a fire under me, kind of his tone raised a little bit and he uses different verbal language.   
   
 Q.   Is it a nice feeling after watching film, you realize a lot of things can be better, you still go into Game 2 up one?   
DANNY GREEN:   It's always a nice feeling to win a game, regardless of the situation.   We know they're going to come out a totally different team.   So we're taking it game by game.   But it's always good to get a win knowing that we didn't play as best as we could.   But we know they didn't play as best as they could either.   
We're expecting each game to be different.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT