NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 7, 2013
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is he a little more stationary as a target?   
DANNY GREEN:   He's always moving.   I don't think any of those guys are that much stationary.   They're always moving.   The ball is always moving.   They're always cutting, slashing.   That's why he gets open.   If he's stationary, he probably wouldn't get as many looks as he does.   
   
 Q.   Did you see a replay of the foul on Ray?   
DANNY GREEN:   I did.   
   
 Q.   What did you think?   
DANNY GREEN:   I didn't realize how close I was to him until after I saw the replay.   I tried to catch him.   I thought he was falling before I got there.   I was in his space, and I didn't give him a chance to land.   It clearly was a foul.   
   
 Q.   How did Ray sell that?   
DANNY GREEN:   I don't want to get into that.   It was a bad play on my part.   I tried to move out the way, I tried to stop myself.   He was falling, and I tried to catch him.   I guess that didn't help.   They called the foul.   
   
 Q.   How do you feel about the game last night?   Congrats, anyway.   
DANNY GREEN:   Thank you.   I feel pretty good.   I know we had a couple of mistakes.   I know we can play better.   I know they can play better as well.   I know it's going to be a hard‑fought series.   We're going to continue to fight and compete, execute and give ourselves a chance.   
   
 Q.   Do you expect something different for the next game?  
DANNY GREEN:   Yeah, we'll make the proper adjustments and see what happens.   Today we haven't gone over that much.   But we'll make the proper adjustments.   
   
 Q.   When a team puts a bigger defender on Tony throughout the course of the year, from your vantage point, how has that affected him?   What kind of adjustments has he made?   
DANNY GREEN:   It depends on who he is.   Tony is known to still get his shot off no matter who it is.   Some guys throughout the league, for anybody, there's always one guy or two guys that give you a difficult time or make your shots a little bit harder.   But either way, Tony has usually always found a way to get his shot off.   If not, it allows us to get other guys looks.   He gets open shots for everybody else or post‑up, smaller guard, whoever the smaller guard starts to guard.   
   
 Q.   What's the particular challenge of LeBron when they put him on Tony?   
DANNY GREEN:   It's hard to tell.   Obviously last night Tony played pretty well.   They only put LeBron on him for a minute or two at the end of the game.   It's hard to tell.  
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT