NBA FINALS: SPURS v HEAT
June 5, 2013
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  DANNY GREEN:   I've learned a lot playing every game and practice.   Obviously a different player now than he was then.   This is a great opportunity for myself and my teammates to make something special happen.   We will try to take advantage of it as much as possible.   They are the defending champs, and we know it's not going to be easy.   It's a great opportunity for us.   We don't know if this will come again in this lifetime, especially with this group that we have. 

Q.   (Inaudible). 
DANNY GREEN:   A little bit.   Like I said, that was a couple of years ago.   He's obviously a different player now than he was then. 
Everybody watches him all year.   There are a lot of their games on TV.   It's not hard to see what they like to do, what their tendencies are.   He's a great player.   No one person is going to stop him.   He's the best player in the world, as far as the MVP of the league.   We're going to need a full team effort to try to contain him, help with the other guys as well. 

Q.   How much different is he from when you played with him? 
DANNY GREEN:   In Cleveland?   I think he's grown and matured as a player.   He's obviously a lot more efficient, taking harder shots.   Throughout the year he's shooting a very high percentage.   He picks and chooses his moments.   He's posting up more now.   He obviously has a different supporting cast. 
So hopefully the supporting cast doesn't make as many shots and aren't as effective.   Hopefully we can contain him and not go up for 40 on us. 

Q.   When you walk in this room, what are you thinking?   It's your first experience. 
DANNY GREEN:   It's exciting.   It's a great time.   Such a big media frenzy going on.   Such a big media day.   I'm going to have fun with it.   Roll with it in great stride. 

Q.   When you were at Carolina playing behind some guys who got a little more notoriety and you were coming off the bench and things like that, did you ever think that you would get to this point? 
DANNY GREEN:   Definitely not this soon.   Most of my years at Carolina I was coming off the bench.   Up until my senior year.   And I'm sure many people, if you had to guess, or bet against them, they would not think that I would be in this position playing in the NBA Finals starting for one of the top two teams in the league. 

Q.   What's the biggest key that's gotten you here?   Is it the work ethic? 
DANNY GREEN:   A little bit of everything.   My teammates have done a great job of encouraging me, keeping me confident.   Pop as well has done a great job, working every day.   Not taking any days off.   Being very consistent in my work and being very persistent at the same time. 

Q.   What do you remember about the game here earlier in the year where you went back to San Antonio ‑‑
DANNY GREEN:   I remember it was early in the year.   Pop sent us home.   It didn't work out the way we planned it to.   Obviously the NBA and other people made it‑‑ it was a big deal.   It wasn't the first time that Pop has done that before.   He's known to rest guys when need be. 
I'm sure that decision when it happened at that point in the year it changed some things in the NBA and how the League looked at resting players. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT