NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: GRIZZLIES v SPURS
May 22, 2013
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about that six‑ or seven‑stop possession. 
DANNY GREEN:   Actually I don't think I was involved.   I think I was on the sideline, but watching it was pretty entertaining.   They had a couple pretty easy chippies that they missed.   We did, too, but they missed a lot back to back to back, had a lot of shots at it.   Guys just fighting for the ball.   Luckily Timmy came out with it, but it was very interesting to watch.   It showed a little bit of the frustration and showed a little bit of their struggle. 
But it's how the game was going yesterday.   It was a low‑scoring game to start, it was slow, and we missed a lot of easy ones. 

Q.   How much does good defense fire you up on offense?
DANNY GREEN:   It definitely fuels our offense.   Our defense, when we get stops and limit them hopefully to one shot, they got about 12 on that play, but when we make stops and get out and run, it helps us to fuel easy baskets, easy transition.   We've got to continue to play that type of defense and hopefully do it better for two halves.

Q.   As a young player playing in his first Conference Finals last year, how much does that experience prepare you for the next go‑around as far as how much everything intensifies? 
DANNY GREEN:   I think it helped a lot.   Every experience is a good one, and every experience helps.   And last year being here for a full year, being around these guys, knowing each other, we know each other a lot better, the chemistry is a lot better, we're a mature team, we've been there before, so we know what it takes.   But we also know what it takes to get past that point and not to be lackadaisical, not to get satisfied or‑‑ so we've got to continue to come out and play basketball and stay focused and remember what happened last year. 
Sure, they trust us more and they expect us to be the mature players and do what we're supposed to do and be a big part of the team's success and help the team regardless if we're making shots or not.   Our role is to play good defense.   But yeah, so last year definitely was an eye opener, so it helped us for this year.   Hopefully we can continue to play good basketball.

Q.   Manu called it an advanced maturity test, you have to be just locked into the game plan.   Are you more locked in than you've ever been?
DANNY GREEN:   Definitely, definitely, that's just with anybody.   That's just with any team.   Play a lot of games throughout the season and usually the teams that are going to be locked in for the longest last.   It's hard to sustain that type of mental focus and physicality throughout 90, 100 games.   That's the biggest key and that's probably the toughest part about it is to stay focused through June. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT