CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
December 17, 2020
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. A pretty solid start today.  I know probably upset with the bogey on 18.  Overall, good day.  How did it feel?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I played really solid today.  Hit the ball really good.  I seemed to have a lot of good birdie chances out there.  Felt a little bit off with the putting.  Couldn't quite figure out the lines.
But overall I'm really happy with the way I'm striking the ball.
Q. From what I've heard, the greens are a little softer, more receptive.  Does that seem to be the case?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I feel like the whole place is a little bit softer in general.  The drives don't get quite as much roll.  So definitely I think makes it a little bit more -- some of the pins are a little bit more gettable.
Q. Better suited for your game or what?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, I feel like there was a lot of tough pins on the slopes, but felt like it might give you a little bit more control on the greens or coming into them.
Q. How did the week change for you after a Monday finish at the U.S. Open, travel to here, short week to prepare?  What has the week looked like for you so far?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, played nine holes on Tuesday and played the pro-am yesterday.  We had carts in the pro-am.  Just coming from Dallas, I think Dallas sucked all the energy out of most of the girls being so cold and just being so long and wet and windy.
U.S. Open with all the mud and all the unnecessary extra stuff.  Pretty tired coming into this week, but I've done pretty good and paced myself.  Ready to play.
Q. How big is that going to be over the next three days, just pacing yourself?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, like all I can focus on is hitting good shots and good putts, and I feel like I did that today.  So three more days, and then I can go on a Christmas holiday, a break.  I'm in a good place.
Q. Last one from me.  With the crazy year that it's been, is there like a little extra excitement when you got here knowing that this is it for the year, the last one?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, I was excited, but then I got a phone call from te LPGA saying that the physios obviously tested positive, so it was a long wait waiting for my COVID test. But once I got cleared I was pretty excited, could be happy that I passed every single one.
But it's definitely been pretty intense since July.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT