HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 21, 2014
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Started off with a birdie on 9.   How long was that putt? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I mean, it was probably 20 feet, and breaking probably 15 feet.

Q.   Yeah.   Was that your first break of the day on the front nine? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I hit it really good front nine.   I think I missed one shot.   Just went back up the ridge on 8.   Other than that, kept hitting it really good.
Couldn't get any momentum or find the green ‑‑ or the line of the putts.   But I hit a decent shot in there, but it I don't know how it stayed up where it did.   So that was great. 
Then almost chipped in or eagle on 10.   Made a good birdie there.
Then lost my focus on the drive on 11, so made bogey there. 
There were some tough pins out there.   A lot of them were on ridges, and I felt like I hit a lot of good shots and kept spinning off the ridges.   Not much you can do.
Pretty decent shot on 18, couple feet from the hole and spun all the way of the green.   Same with 15.   It was just hard to get it close to the pin.   Some pins you couldn't even go at.
Felt like I hit it solid.   A little disappointed to finish with a bogey on the last.   Overall been hitting it great this week.   Today I felt like all things were good.   Just couldn't get any putts to drop.

Q.   What about this morning coming off having the lead after the first round?   Feel like it gave you a little more pep? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   No, it I felt great.   I hit it really good all last week, so I knew it's in there.   I hit it good yesterday and kept hitting it really good first nine today. 
Then there were some tougher pins in the back, but I just tried to be aggressive and give myself chances for birdie.   Felt like I did, but just couldn't make 'em.

Q.   What about the rain in the morning?   Change things up?   Made the greens softer. 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, the greens were definitely softer.   Just made it tougher to get the ball to stop on 18 on the back ridge, and same thing with 15.   Where my ball stopped on 9 shouldn't even be possible to stop there.
It's definitely playing a little bit longer with the rain and stuff like that.   Overall I think it was good.   Still in the lead.   Looking forward to the next two days.

Q.   What do you think about the next two days?   You think people will go low? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I felt like they had a lot of the tougher pins today, especially up on plateaus.   They were a little harder to get to on softer greens.   I don't know if there is any rain in the forecast. 
Yeah, I shot 6‑under yesterday and played pretty solid.   It's definitely out there. 

Q.   Happy with the weather?   Everyone seems to be a little lethargic?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I think we all expected it to be warmer.   Today with a little bit of rain and overcast it felt like I still had a lot of the energy leaving the 18th green.

Q.   So going into the weekend in position.   Feel good?   Anticipate anything?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I'm excited.   This is a position I been practicing to be in.   Halfway through and there are 36 more holes, but I'm happy with the way I'm playing. 
Hopefully can make a couple more putts over the weekend and that should take care of it. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT