HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 20, 2014
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   We would like to welcome our clubhouse leader at the Honda Thailand LPGA.   Anna, 6‑under today.   Solid day of seven birdies, an eagle, two bogeys.   Run us through your round to start.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, today was a pretty good day.   The course is not really playing that easy, but I started with three birdies, so obviously got some momentum off the start. 
Made a good putt just off the green on 8 for birdie.
Hit a little on nine and it was so fast.   Managed par there. 
Birdied No. 12, the par‑3.   Good putt there. 
Then a bit to of a flyer on 13.   10 yards more than I expected.   So missed a short one for par there.
Then 14 was the same.   Just in the left rough.   Hit 9‑iron and it flew about 10, 15 more than I expected.   So I was next to a tree and had to hit left‑handed, which I haven't really done in a while.   It was quite an adventure, but managed to get bogey there.
16 I had 59 yards to the pin, pitched a little bit past, and then spun in the hole.   So that was pretty cool to make an eagle there.
Pretty easy birdie on 17. 
So overall it was a fun day for sure.
MODERATOR:   How important was the eagle on 15 to bounce back after two bogeys?   Do you get a little out of sync?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I missed a four‑ or five‑footer on 13, but it was a bit of a slider and the greens are really fast, so if you don't start on the line they're going to take off.
I didn't really hit a bad shot at all on 14, but just a little unfortunate to end up where I did.   So definitely to almost get it up on the green there and make a good par for bogey definitely saved some momentum today.
MODERATOR:   Started off with three birdies.   Is that something you concentrated on, getting off to a strong start? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I always try to put my best foot forward.   I try to be awake when I start on the first tee box.   I hit it on the green in two, so it was a pretty easy birdie. 
But definitely getting a good start sets the pace for the rest of the day. 
MODERATOR:   Talk about your off‑season and what you worked on, how you felt coming into this season.   You had a solid start obviously, and then coming into this week. 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I was quite disappointed at the end of last year.   Didn't feel like I played bad, but never really got any momentum.   I was very determined this off‑season.   I worked really hard.   Anyone that's been around me can probably say that. 
I spent time in the gym trying to get more speed.   Changed equipment to TaylorMade.   So it's been quite a fun couple weeks with new clubs and new golf ball.
It's been fun playing around with that.   My short game coach I started working with two, three weeks ago, so it's been fun.   Bit of a change, but definitely getting some of the inspiration and motivation back.   Felt like at one point last year I was about ready to quit golf.
MODERATOR:   Really?   That down.   You weren't playing too badly last year.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   No, I did get 15 or 16 top 15s [sic] last year, so it was very solid.   But I just kind of lost the reason why I play golf, the fun of it.   I have good people around me now.   They been really helping me to get that inspiration back.   I out in all this hard work for a reason.
It's been fun.   They've been pushing me and definitely been more motivated than before.
MODERATOR:   Friends?   Family? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I had my friends and family come over to the U.S. to Florida this year, and then I went over to Sweden.   So it's been fun just having people that care about me around me. 
I have a great coach and a great trainer.   They keep motivating me and keep giving me a hard time.   Just trying to get better.   You know, my caddie has been always supportive last couple months.   So I feel like I'm surrounded by great people.
MODERATOR:   What is your coach's name? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Jorje Parada.
MODERATOR:   How long have you been with him? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I started working with him on the short game after Asia last year, and just a couple weeks ago I started full swing, too.
MODERATOR:   And first club change in your career.   Pretty big step.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, it is.   Well, everything I had in my (indiscernible) I've been without a (indiscernible) for five years, so it's definitely exciting.   A little bit new. 
The equipment change, I been working very closely with TaylorMade and they've been really supportive and really helpful.   Switch didn't seem as big as I thought.
MODERATOR:   Any questions for Anna? 

Q.   Could you tell us a bit more about your eagle? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, just tried to stay in there after the two bogeys, because I didn't feel like I hit bad shots.   I just got flyers out of the rough.
Had pretty good yardage and it was on the top tier, so I just pitched it five or six paces behind it and spun back.   So obviously gave me some momentum to finish off. 
MODERATOR:   Big pressure, International Crown.   Team Thailand, all four players that are currently on the team are here this week. 
Team Sweden is very strong.   Have you been talking about it at all?   How much are you looking forward to that event.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, if you're looking at their all stars, Thailand are gonna be a great team.   They have great players. 
Been talking a little bit with Hedwall about it, but I think as we get closer it's probably going to be a little bit more exciting.   For now you want to make the team and represent your country.
MODERATOR:   You and Hedwall paired up in Solheim a couple times.   No pairings.   You guys get to decide the teams, who plays against who.   How do you think you'll handle that?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, still a couple more tournaments and we'll see who the fourth player will be.   I think could be a couple.   Depending on who it's going to be.
Obviously had a great run with Hedwall at Solheim, so I would be very excited to play with her again. 
MODERATOR:   Thanks for coming in. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT