HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 23, 2014
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   I would like to welcome in our 2014 Honda LPGA Thailand champion, Anna Nordqvist.   Anna, congratulations.   Take us through the emotions as soon as that last putt dropped.   I could tell it in your face.  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, I'm speechless to be honest.   It's been a couple years since I won.   I've been working very hard.   Had my ups and downs.   
Just couldn't be happier to be here.   It was such a hard push on the back nine.   Inbee kept making birdies and Michelle was playing great.   Couldn't really breathe until the last putt, so obviously I could just let go on the last putt.  
MODERATOR:   We talked about how hard you worked over the off‑season and how you almost got to the point of quitting, giving up the game.   Talk about having this win in your second start of the season.   How much does that set the tone for the 2014 year?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, last year was a bit rough going for me for a little bit.   I played better second half of the season.  
I was a little bit disappointed with the result.   Just couldn't get any momentum.   I still had quite a few good finishes.  
I surround myself with great people and friends and family.   I have a great coach that really inspired me the last couple months, couple weeks, just to believe in myself and keep going no matter what.  
You know, it was a grind this off‑season, but sitting here with the trophy it was well worth it.  
MODERATOR:   Who in particular was really there for you and supportive and really pushed you to keep going and working at it?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   My younger brother and his girlfriend (indiscernible) in Florida.   You know, just very easygoing people, you know, just smile at me and just that's exactly what I needed.   My mom and niece and nephew and brother were over.   
And then my coach, Jorge Parada, has been tremendous support the last couple weeks to just find myself again and believe in what I'm doing and just be patient.  
MODERATOR:   Did you talk to your coach at all this week back home?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, absolutely.   We were in daily contact.   All my friends that were supporting me this week wished me good luck for today, and I'm sure my phone is blowing up right now.   I can't wait to talk to them all and share this dream with them.   They are as much a part of it as I am.  
MODERATOR:   Last win was five years ago in your rookie season.   What is the biggest difference between the victory in 2009 and today?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I think my game is much better today.   Last three years it's been really solid.   Put myself in a couple good positions last year but never came close enough over the weekend.  
I'm in a much better place.   I'm happy.   I have a lot of positive people around me.   My caddie, Jason Gilroy, has been by my side since July.   He's been a great support.   Just makes me laugh and keeps me in a good mood and calm on the course.  
He really has made a difference in my game.   
MODERATOR:   Put Sweden back on the map in wins.   The last Swede to win was Maria Hjorth in 2011.   I know you have a lot of national pride.   What does this mean for golf to get a win for the country?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Well, there is always questions about when someone is going to win again obviously after Annika left in 2008.   So we were fortunate to get a couple victories.  
But I think Sweden has a lot of good players.   (Indiscernible) last year, so I think he was a big inspiration to all of us.   We all work very hard.   
MODERATOR:   Let's talk about the back nine tear.   What was going through your mind at the turn?   One‑shot lead, started with 4.   What were your thoughts going into the last nine holes?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Inbee and Michelle kept making birdies and playing great, so I knew I had to stay in it the first couple holes when I didn't hit it as good.  
Then after that I just saw I needed to start making birdies because if not I wasn't going to keep up with them.   I made a great 20‑footer I think on 10 to really kick start it.   
From then I had a great 6‑iron in on 11; made the putt.   
Great 6‑iron in on 12 to a short distance.  
Then on 14 I made a 7‑iron to about three feet.   
So I kept staying in there and never gave up.   
Great putt on 16.   
Inbee kept making the putts and I had to stay aggressive.   
MODERATOR:   I know you said that Stacy, Inbee, Suzann, have been in contention over the past years so many times they look so comfortable.   You didn't look rattled.   How are feeling on the inside?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   No, this is great.   These are moments I practice so hard for.   You know, I love the Solheim Cup, and coming down the stretch I felt like going at one hole at a time.   I knew I had to make the best out of each one of them.  
MODERATOR:   Questions for Anna?   
   
 Q.   You were leading the whole tournament.   (Indiscernible.)  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I think when I won my major in 2009 I shot 6‑under the first day and I think I lead throughout the whole tournament.  
   
 Q.   Winter Olympics final day today.   Sweden has two gold medals; Norway, we trashed you.   Is this Sweden's revenge over Norway?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I guess so.   I've been trying to follow quite a bit of the Olympics.   Kept me in a good mood.   Obviously we won the gold for the men's and the women's relay.   I don't know if you missed that.  
There is a huge hockey game tonight in maybe an hour and a half between Canada and Sweden.   My caddie is Canadian, so I don't know if I will be able to speak to him tomorrow.   But hopefully Sweden will pull off another medal in these last days.   
MODERATOR:   Any other questions?   All right, congratulations again.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT