SAFEWAY CLASSIC PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
August 31, 2013
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome Anna Nordqvist into the interview room.   Good day.   You took full advantage of your day, a nice little 9‑under 63 moves you right up there.   What worked for you.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Well, I hit it pretty solid today and got a couple putts to go in early, and then it just gave me a little bit of momentum, and then I eagled 7, so that's always nice, and I started hitting it a little bit closer on the back nine.
Obviously there's a lot of birdies out there, a lot of girls tearing it up out there.   Greens are pretty soft.   They're getting a little firmer, but you can still fire at them.   If you hit driver, it's good, you can take advantage of just hitting it close with short irons and make a lot of birdies.

Q.   You were a member of the victorious Solheim Cup a couple weeks ago.   How grueling have the past couple weeks been and how are you feeling?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I think we were also running pretty high at the Solheim Cup.   Obviously a lot of them are my friends, and we seemed to come together, even in the weeks after.   There's so many memories.   It's just hearing a song yesterday, driving from the golf course, and I was a little upset at my game, but it was one of the team songs, and it just seemed to get me in such a good mood. 
Overall I'm running very high, and a lot of Europeans have been playing very good since, and I think it gave us a huge boost.

Q.   What song was it?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   It was in Spanish and I don't know a single word, but we all tried to sing it anyway.

Q.   You were teammates with Sophie Gustafson during a Solheim Cup.   She just announced yesterday that she's stepping away from the LPGA Tour.   Can you talk about your relationship with her and the impact that she's had on the game?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I mean, Sophie Gustafson was out there when I grew up.   I remember I was probably 12, 13, my family and I would go up to Stockholm to watch her play in a Ladies European Tour event.   She's always been a great player for Swedish golf and really kicked off the Swedish era.   We had good players to look up to.   I've been fortunate to play with Sophie Gustafson on two Solheim Cups.   She just brings out the best in me.   Me and Sophie actually won the European Nations Cup together as a two‑man team in 2010 or 2011, so I sure have a lot of good memories of Sophie. 
I did not know that she was stepping away from the LPGA.   That was very sad news yesterday.   But I'm sure she's in a good place, ready to start a new chapter of her life, and I just wish her well.   But she's just done so much for Swedish golf and for the LPGA overall. 

Q.   Did you see the 62 that was posted earlier, and what did that tell you about the course? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, I was looking at Twitter this morning trying to figure out the pin placements, and then someone just tweeted out "59 watch."   I just didn't know what tour it was, and then when I went to LPGA scoring and saw Austin was I think 8‑under after 10 holes or something like that, so she sure was tearing it up.   She finished pretty quick, but yeah, I definitely saw she posted a 10‑under before we teed off.   I just tried to put myself in a good position for tomorrow, and obviously there's birdies out there, so just try to be aggressive and give myself a lot of opportunities. 
But definitely you saw it was out there, so I think that boosted a lot of players. 

Q.   Could you describe your eagle? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I hit it‑‑ there was such a long wait on 7 actually.   I think there were two or three groups on the tee just waiting around.   I hit the drive just in the first cut on the left.   I think I had 235 to the pin.   I hit a great 3‑wood to about six feet below the hole, and the putt was right center.   It was short and sweet, and already 2‑under for the day, it sure gave me some momentum going forward. 

Q.   How eager are you to win again? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   That's why I'm out there, you know.   I love competing, I love winning.   I work so hard every day to put myself in position to win.   I haven't won the last couple years, but I feel like my game is heading in the right direction.   I'm probably as motivated as ever to win out here. 

Q.   Has it been frustrating or are you impatient about winning?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I think the one thing I've learned the last couple years is to be patient.   I can only control what I'm doing.   You know, it seems like I'm getting the pieces of all the puzzle together.   I have a good swing coach, I have a great team around me, a great caddie.   I seem to be in a very good mood.   So it just seems like the pieces of the puzzle are falling into place, it's just a matter of making putts.   I feel like I've been hitting it pretty well tee to green this year, but just haven't made many putts.

Q.   Is 63 your career low? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I actually had a 61 in Alabama at the end of April, so I shot 11‑under. 

Q.   And I know we were talking on the way up here, but there's been a lot of discussion I know between the communications team about what TV show you would be on if you could pick any.   Can you just kind of share with everybody? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Well, we always get to (indiscernible) every year.   Kraig Kann is always on, okay, if you could be on one TV show, what would it be.   I always say I have a love for design and interior design, and I love fixing stuff around my house.   So I told him that I wanted to redo my kitchen.   My dream is actually to get on some HGTV show and get my kitchen redone, so he has a bit of a challenge there.

Q.   So when golf is all said and done, do you think you could see yourself being a designer at the end of the day?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, if I wouldn't be a golfer I would definitely be a graphic designer.   I love it.   Woodwork was probably my favorite subject growing up.   You know, it's just fun, scrapbooking and doing stuff around your house and stuff like that has always been an interest of mine.   But who knows what the future holds. 

Q.   Do you remember if you made any long birdie putts today?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I made a long one on 3.   It was probably 30, 35 feet, and then I made one from probably 25 feet on 17.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT