NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 29, 2020
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Anna Nordqvist at the Walmart NW Arkansas Championship presented by P&G.
 Anna, 9-under, 62 today.  Tell us about your round.
 ANNA NORDQVIST:   I played really solid both today and yesterday.  Got off to a great start.  Had a lot of good opportunities.  Made a few putts early and just kept going.
 Felt like I hit my irons really well.  Gave myself a lot of opportunities.  Even making the turn there, I mean, I hit it great on 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, so it was just a lot of good clubs and good opportunities.
 Just very happy with the way things went.
 Q. What does that feel like when you're in the zone like that and it seems like everything might be going your way?
 ANNA NORDQVIST:   I would say like it's just nice to see hard work pay off, and also see a lot of, you know -- I feel like I've been off for a little bit last couple years, but it's just nice to have some sort of consistency back.
 Yeah, not every week it's going to -- it's not going to pay off, but I been trying to keep my head up and just keep going, keep working at it.  Certainly when it does pay off it's a great feeling.
 Q. How tough has that been at times since the 2017 Evian Championship?  How tough have some of those stretches been for you?
 ANNA NORDQVIST:   I mean, 2017 was hard because I did get mono in July and didn't have enough knowledge about how to manage it and probably tried to push it a little bit too early.
 So it really took me a couple years.  Made a few swing changes in the wrong directions.  Been working with Drew Steckel now the last year and a half.  Starting to feel like myself again.
 But it has been a little bit of bumpy road, especially when you know what you're capable of.  But I been working hard throughout all these years, and hopefully it will pay off.
 Q. I think I believe six of your previous wins have come in 54-hole events.  What is it about that that you have to come out of the gates firing that kind of...
 ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I actually didn't know that.  I mean, I know ShopRite LPGA is a good three-day event.  But you know, I don't know.  There is something about Arkansas.  Always liked this place.  Probably one of the few places in the U.S. I could really see myself being because I like the atmosphere here.
 But, yeah, you have to make a lot of birdies out here.
 Q. Speaking of birdies, you've got a three-shot lead, three-shot cushion heading into the final round.  What's the game plan?  What's the strategy?
 ANNA NORDQVIST:   There is obviously low scores out here, so you got to keep going.  It's just so competitive out here.  In order to win out here you really have to be on top of your game.
 So feel good so far, but I'm going to have to post a low one tomorrow, too.
 Q. Just one last question:  I believe you spent a lot of your time over the break playing on a few different tours in Arizona, including some of the men's tours.
 How did that maybe tune up your game heading into the restart of the LPGA?
 ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I was trying to keep fresh because we thought we were starting in March, then April, then in May, then in June, so I did sign up four a men's event in Moon Valley.  Didn't really know what to expect, and I shot 8-under from the back tees the first day.
 So didn't quite see that coming, but played really well that day.  And then played a few on the Cactus Tour.  Mike does a great job there keeping everyone playing and Sophia Popov has been really successful there, and Mina Harigae, she's been doing really well there, too.
 It's just great to have some opportunities and people really supporting the women's game.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT