THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 17, 2013
Caroline Hedwall
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What a way to finish that match.   How did that feel?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   It feels unbelievable.   
   
 Q.   And a perfectly stroked 7‑iron.   It's just a wonderful feeling.   And it was a wonderful match.   With all the crowd noise out here today, how did you cope with that?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   It seems like the crowd was pretty loud today.   It was a tough match.   They played tough.   But they're really tough.   
Caroline made key putts on 13 and 14, and then we just sort of battled in there and had a good finish the last two holes.  
   
 Q.   You two are an incredibly consistent pair from tee to green.   But you holed some crucial putts today on 13 and 14.   You had to make both of those, didn't you?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I was thinking that it would have been tough to walk off that green being 2 down on 13, so I really wanted to make it and I did.   And it was just a clutch putt.   It was fun.   
   
 Q.   How did it feel when that ball went in the hole?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I don't think it has hit me yet.   It was a really good shot, going straight at it.   We thought it was‑‑ it might be a little long, but it pitched and hit, and it's just an unbelievable feeling.   
   
 Q.   Obviously first question, right now, that shot.   What an amazing thing.   We have never seen such a thing to determine the outcome of a match, a hole‑in‑one, your thoughts on that shot?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   It was just an unbelievable shot.   It was the right shot, at the right time.   And I told it to be right and obviously it going in, it was more than I could ever have expected.  
   
 Q.   What was your initial reaction when you saw that?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Happiness.   It was just great.   Yeah.   
   
 Q.   You guys have been a phenomenal team, both of you individually and together, you've been such a solid team.   Why do you think that is?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   We grew up playing together and I think we feel comfortable.   Caroline is a great putter, a great player, so I put a lot of trust and a lot of confidence in her.   Morgan and Korda played really tough today.   And we holed some key putts coming down the stretch and it was great.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT