THE SOLHEIM CUP
August 17, 2013
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Delighted to welcome Anna Nordqvist from Sweden, who holed in one at the 17th today to win her match by 2 & 1 with Caroline Hedwall.   It was absolutely amazing to watch you do that this morning.   How did it feel, obviously, when the ball went in the hole?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   We were coming off birdie on 16, so we with were both pretty pumped up.   Obviously it was a great shot and just to see it really go in, I mean, there's no words for it.   I can't wait to watch the reruns to actually see more, how we were cheering on the tee.   But that's, obviously, I couldn't ask for any better at that point.   
THE MODERATOR:   Obviously 16 was a key hole as well.   Can you just talk us through what happened there.  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Caroline hit a great 3‑wood down the left, we had 220 to the front and I think 250 to the hole.   And I hit a good 4‑iron.   It bounced on maybe 25, 30 feet and she putted up there three or four feet and I holed it for birdie.   
And then the Americans, they almost holed their chip shot, it was a great chip shot from Jessica.   But it felt great to win that hole to go 1‑up in the match.   
THE MODERATOR:   So how does this rate in terms of the highlights of your career so far?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   It's definitely probably one of my highlights of my career.   It's not many times that you can actually hole out and make a hole‑in‑one to actually win the match.   I guess it might be pretty expensive for me, a lot of people are watching, but it's one of the moments that I'm really going to remember for a long time.   
THE MODERATOR:   Questions?   Please raise your hand.   
   
 Q.   This competition is very intense and everything, but after you won your match, Meg Mallon also came up to you and congratulated you right on the spot there.   Does that say a lot about what this event is really about also?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, Meg is, it's just really true sportsmanship.   I think that at the end of the day this event is to grow women's golf and the Solheim family has done a tremendous job just to bring this event and for us to have all these moments and for the spectators, like there's no event like this.   
It's great to see all the Americans come up to you and at the end of the day we all play with each other every week and I know a lot of the girls on the American team and they know a lot of us.   So, at the end of the day, it's obviously everyone wants to win, but at the end of the day we, it's just a great event.   
THE MODERATOR:   What are your thoughts on the overall score line at the moment, six and a half, five and a half to Europe?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Obviously, I'm very excited that the European Team is leading.   We had some great pairings this morning and it's tough matches.   There's a lot of good players on the European team and there's a lot of good players on the American team.   So it's definitely a lot of tough matches.   I'm very excited about the European team and the way everyone's been playing and, you know, that everyone just seems to never ever give up and just is fighting until the last point.   
So I'm very excited to see how everyone is going to be doing this afternoon.   I can't wait to go out there and cheer them on.   I think we are all ready to‑‑ we have nothing to lose.   We obviously haven't won on U.S. soil, but I think we're all ready, everyone is ready to do that.  
THE MODERATOR:   How critical is the afternoon session todays, the four‑balls?   How important to keep that lead?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   The more points you put on the board, the closer you can get to winning the cup.   But I feel like you had Matthew and Masson make birdie on 18 to get all square in that match and that was huge.   
You just got to bring the momentum.   I felt we got some momentum at the end in the foursome matches and I hope that the afternoon wave's going to go the same.   
THE MODERATOR:   How do you plan to spend the afternoon?   Are you going to go out and support your teammates?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I'm going to relax a little bit, it's been a long week so far, but I'm just resting and relaxing and then go cheer them on.   
THE MODERATOR:   Okay.   Thank you for joining us today.   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT