U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 27, 2013
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRISTINA LANCE:   We're here with Anna Nordqvist with a 4‑under 68 with six birdies and two bogies, a great round for you, Anna.   How did you feel out there?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I couldn't wish for a better start.   I felt pretty solid.   It was a couple tougher pins, but I felt like I managed myself very good out there today.   I was very patient, and when I had opportunities I took advantage of them.   
   
 Q.   Real quickly, if you wouldn't mind just walking us through your birdies and your bogeys and let us know what happened?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I started on the back nine on number 12, I hit a 9‑iron to about 18 feet, made a putt for birdie.   
I actually hit a good 4‑iron in on number 14, pin high, missed a three‑footer for par.   So I made bogey there.   
16, is the par‑4.   I actually hit a 5‑iron from about 180 to maybe 20 feet and made a long one.   
Then on 18, I had only 40 yards left, and hit it to about 7 feet and made that one.   
On number 2, I hit a 4‑iron from 190 yards to about three feet and made that one for birdie.   
Number 5, I hit it in the fairway bunker, so I just had to chip out and made bogey.   
Then on number 8, I was almost on in two, so I chipped to about 8, 9 feet and made that one.   
Then on the last one I had about 100 yards and hit it to about 7 feet.  
   
 Q.   Can you just sort of talk a little bit about this tournament?   You've had some rough moments at this tournament before, but do you feel like this is a year you're coming in where you can really compete in this tournament?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, well, I never really felt like I had the game to really contend at the U.S. Open.   It's the toughest challenge all year.   
When I came out on TOUR in 2009, I was pretty shocked about how fast the greens were.   It was nothing that I ever experienced growing up in Sweden and playing around in Europe.   But it's certainly one of the tournaments you really want to play good in, and I couldn't ask for a better start today.   
But I feel like it takes a couple of years to get used to the way the USGA sets up the courses and the way you're going to have to manage yourself and prepare for these tournaments.   I felt like I'm much better prepared this year than I've been in the past.  
   
 Q.   Also there are a couple of Swedes, Caroline is at minus 3 too.   It must be nice to see another countrywoman up there playing in the first round?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Absolutely, Caroline is a friend of mine, we've been growing up playing together, and certainly seeing her shooting 4‑under in the morning session gave me a little bit of inspiration for the afternoon.   But she's a great player.   I'm not surprised to see her up there.  
   
 Q.   You finished with two birdies.   It has to be a nice way to take yourself into tomorrow.   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, absolutely.   I mean, I felt a little bit of momentum on 6.   I made a good putt for par, and then you feel like it's starting to get pretty late out there, and just finishing with two birdies is more than I could ask for.   Definitely gives me some more momentum going into tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   Had you been here before and played the course at all?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, actually I was here a couple years ago playing in the Val Skinner, a fundraiser for breast cancer.   So I got to see the course already then, and kind of had to mentally prepare the last couple of years because I knew the greens were going to be very undulated.   
But I was here a couple weeks ago, and I think I got a round and a half in.   Just seeing the course, and I think it helps seeing the course.   The more you see it, the better it gets.  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on the course?   Is it very different from what you're used to, or what are your thoughts?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I think it's actually a good golf course.   It challenges all parts of your game.   The greens might be big, but it's just such small sections where you can put the pins and where you have to play to, so you really get penalized if you don't hit it in the right spot.   I truly feel like it's a really challenging course.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT