SUNRISE LPGA TAIWAN CHAMPIONSHIP
October 21, 2011
Azahara Munoz
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MODERATOR: All right, I would like to welcome Anna Nordqvist sitting next to me, and Azahara Munoz sitting next to her. Thank you, ladies, for coming in. Anna, can you just tell me about the day? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: It's been a great day playing with Yani second day in a row. There are a lot of people out and just so much fun to see the support women's golf has here in Taiwan. 
 It was a real solid round. I hit a lot of greens in regulation and gave myself a lot opportunities. So it was really solid, and so I'm really happy with the day.
 MODERATOR: Aza, can you just tell me about the day?
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, I was seeing the ball really well. I miss a few greens, but I putted 18 times today, so I gave myself a lot of chances. I took a few of them. I made a nice eagle on 6, so that helped, too. 
 You know, I just played really good, so I'm pretty happy with it.
 MODERATOR: Aza, you seem to have been playing well as of late, especially after Solheim Cup. Can you just tell me about that experience? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Solheim was awesome. I mean, it's the best week golf-wise, the best week of my life. You know, just playing on a team and playing with my friends, and we got along really well. I don't know, the way the tournament is, it was just so much fun.
 MODERATOR: This will be your first LPGA victory. Can tell me what that would mean to you? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Well, it would everything, but we're still two rounds to go so it's a little early to talk. Of course this is what we practice and that's my goal: to win on the LPGA.
 MODERATOR: Anna, this will be your first victory in, what, a couple years? Can you just tell me what it would mean to win here in Taiwan? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, like Aza says, this is what you dream of and this is why you practice. Obviously two rounds to go so a lot of golf left, but obviously it would be a nice victory. 
 Still a lot golf to play. Yeah, there's a lot of play out there, so it'll be a fun weekend for sure. 
 MODERATOR: Any questions? 

 Q. Anna, can you just talk about where you learned to stay in a bubble in an atmosphere like this? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, we tried to yesterday -- like standing on the first tee, even standing on the first green yesterday it didn't feel like Thursday because there were so much people out. Obviously there is no cameras allowed, but everyone was having the cameras and flashing. 
 I don't know really what to compare it to. U.S. Open maybe or a little bit like Solheim. But you just try not to focus about it. Obviously everyone is mostly taking pictures when Yani is playing, but the flashes go off and the clinic sound and everything. 
 So you just have to try and focus on what you're going to do and hit the shot. You know it's going to be there, so you just can't be too upset about it if it does go off when you do swing. 

 Q. Question for both of you: Can you tell me what you did well today, what particular aspects of today, and especially since we got rainy windy weather, why did you do well today and not quite as well yesterday? Is it anything to do with your equipment or skills that you picked up recently or anything of that sort? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: I shot much better than yesterday, but I actually didn't play that much better. I just had a really slow start yesterday. I was 3-over through 5 and then I played pretty good after that. 
 It was rainy at times, but it was never that bad. I don't think it really bothered play that much, so... 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: The most important thing is to keep the ball in play and try to hit fairways and try to hit greens. I hit a lot of greens today, and sounds like Aza did, too. So I think that's one of the keys on this course, especially with the wind out here.
 MODERATOR: Aza, you had an eagle today. Tell me about it. What did you hit? 
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yeah, well, I driver in the fairway, and then I hit another 210 uphill. So I hit 5-wood, and I hit it probably 15, 16 feet, and I made it.

 Q. Driver off the tee?
 AZAHARA MUNOZ: Yes. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT