SIME DARBY LPGA MALAYSIA
October 15, 2011
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. For you to make a big jump today, I mean, we all know Saturday is a big day, but to be able to go out and shoot a round like that, how nice is that?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I think, I mean, yesterday was the biggest, you know, coming back from a high score the first day just knowing that my game started to feel better and better.
 Today, hit a lot of good iron shots and started rolling a couple good putts. So it's just good to know that you're never really out. Like you can always make a comeback. Just keep fighting. That's what I been doing the last few days.

 Q. I know it's a disappointing way to finish for you for such a great round, but how tough is it to sit through a delay like that and come back out?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I just missed a green on three, the last one, and you sit there, you know, for three hours. You just want to finish. We probably needed four or five more minutes, but it is what it is. It's the same for everyone. Just got to get the best out of it.

 Q. And your game right now, how are you feeling?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I think, I mean, it's coming along really well. Been working really hard with my coach and started the weeks coming Solheim and played pretty good in Solheim.
 Did a lot of good things last week in Korea. So I just fields better and better. I'm still working on a lot stuff with my caddie and my coach, but it's starting to feel a lot better.

 Q. Talking to all the players from Solheim, especially the European teams, some of the players say how much they've taken from that and the momentum from what a great event that was and all the excitement. Do you think you've been able to build off that?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I think it was definitely a confidence builder. I thought I played a lot of good matches in the Solheim Cup, and pulling off good shots when you really have to in good moments.
 So definitely bee a lot of adrenaline and you're still running high on all the emotions from Solheim Cup. So there a lot of good memories, and made for sure a lot of positive ones.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT