OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 9, 2010
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Anna, any round without a bogey is a good one; how good was that one? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I thought it was really solid. I'm really happy. I had a lot of opportunities out there. I didn't make a ton of them but I took advantage of a couple so I'm really happy with the day.

 Q. How much does this golf course examine the different aspects of the game?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I think it's every part of your game. The rough is pretty thick there, so you can't really get the ball very high off the ground so you definitely want to hit the fairways and if you miss the greens, it can leave you with some tricky putts. 

 Q. The greens look as though they are getting firmer so might be more difficult to get near the flag; is that how it felt to you?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, especially the more the day went on. This morning they were soft and you could take advantage of that a little bit, and especially with the wind here.

 Q. Great position going into the weekend. How excited about your prospects? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: It's the best position you can possibly be in so far, so not sure how far the afternoon wave is, but I'm just happy with my game and going to keep doing what I'm doing and I look forward to a fun weekend. 

 Q. In terms of the conditions compared to yesterday, what was the difference out there for you? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I played pretty much the same. I played good yesterday. I played good today. 
 Today I made four birdies today and four birdies yesterday, and yesterday I had two bogeys. So it wasn't much difference. Still a lot of good opportunities and look forward to make a couple this weekend.

 Q. What would you like to see better about your game or things you would like to do differently? It's a pretty packed leaderboard. What do you need to do to extend your lead?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I just need to go out there and try to shoot as low as I can. You can make a lot of birdies on this course. So just sharpen up my wedges a little bit and I'll be good. Just try to make birdies. 

 Q. You said you had a lot of missed opportunities. You had some pars that should have been birdies today?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I thought I had a couple good looks and hit a couple good putts. 

 Q. So the putting was -- if you had to look at it, maybe the putting was what let you down a little bit? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I thought I hit a couple of good putts that didn't go in, I hit a couple short on the line and they are not going to go in, so hopefully I can give myself a couple better opportunities tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT