AIG WOMEN'S OPEN
August 20, 2020
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  Q. Great round, can you talk us through how you felt today?
 ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, it was brutally tough start today, playing in that wind straight into the first seven holes, basically, hitting 7-irons from 120 yards on the first hole.  It was really tough and I felt I stayed front and made a lot of putts on the front nine to stay in it.  Felt like I played really well on the back nine and once you make the turn, everything starts going downwind.  I felt like it was hard to hold some of the greens.   Hit a lot of good shots and a good 7-iron on 14 and just kicked back there and made bogey and thought I hit a good putt on the next one.
 Overall, I'm really happy.  It wasn't easy out there and I kept grinding and just try to stay in a good mood and felt like my caddie helped me a lot today.  So overall, I'm happy but it was really tough out there today.
 Q. You have had some great finishes in the Women's Open, what is it about this tournament you like so much?
 ANNA NORDQVIST:   Growing up, I had an opportunity to play a lot of golf in the U.K., and a lot of the links courses.  So I just find that I think I like tough conditions and I refuse to give up.  But I think definitely having a lot of experience on these courses and I played quite a few British Opens to this point.  I try to tell myself that I had a really good round in basically unplayable conditions at St Andrews in 2013, so I knew -- tried to use -- stay strong and I knew that it's going to blow for everyone.
 Q. How does it feel playing back in a major, especially in the circumstances, there's no crowds, how do you feel like that's affected you?
 ANNA NORDQVIST:   I'm really excited obviously to be back playing and this was my one opportunity to go back to Europe this year, so that means a lot, Scottish caddie -- they have been enjoying the food.  Even though we can't see our family and friends -- it's not great not having spectators, but there's just so much to this championship.  It means so much to me, so -- here we go, raining again.  It's going to be a great week no matter what.
 Q. Well placed on the leaderboard.  How will you prepare?
 ANNA NORDQVIST:   Based on the weather forecast, it's going to be tough.  It's going to be a 72-hole grind this week.  Might not always be pretty but if you can get the ball from A to B the best you can and stay patient and take your medicine when you have to, so hopefully I can just stick to my plan and give it a little bit of a break with the weather tomorrow.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT