THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 23, 2011
Anna Nordqvist
Suzann Pettersen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   BETHAN CUTLER: We have Suzann Pettersen and Anna Nordqvist who just won 2-up against Cristie Kerr and Michelle Wie, earning one point for the European team. That was a pretty exciting afternoon, wasn't it? Would you like to start, Suzann, just your comments on your round this afternoon?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: It's been a long day, a lot of golf being played. It feels longer when you have to go through 18 both rounds. Very happy I had Super Anna on my side this afternoon. We went off to a very good start, kind of dropped down low for a little bit there halfway through, and then Anna made a fantastic last couple holes.   
 So I think it was a great team effort. I think the team was in good shape.   
 BETHAN CUTLER: Anna, you must be pleased with your performance today as well.  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, absolutely. The afternoon match definitely gave us, the team, some momentum going into tomorrow. It was a fight out there. It was tough conditions. It's been a long day, so I think everyone is tired. It was just a matter of trying to hang in there at the end.   
 BETHAN CUTLER: What are your thoughts on the overall score line at the moment going into the second day?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Obviously, it's exciting. I think we came off to a good start. Everyone is in a good mood and can't wait for the weekend.  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Our goal is to win every day, and we won today. That's a good start.  
  
  Q. From what you've seen today, does that reinforce your belief that Europe can win this Solheim Cup?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: Absolutely. I think it was great a few of the rookies got out today. Caroline Hedwall and Sophie had a brilliant performance. It was nice to see Sandra Gal get her half point, and then I think Mel Reid and Laura kind of felt robbed there on the last from what I've heard.   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: And Aza won this morning. So I think we've had a good day, and I think Ali should be very, very pleased.  
  
  Q. At one point there was so much blue on the board this afternoon and in the space of half an hour it all changed. Were you conscious of this happening?   
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: No, not really. I saw there was a lot of blue. But knowing all these Americans, they're always managing to turn it around and sneak in a point here and there. Like I said, it doesn't matter what your teammates are doing, you've got to try to get your point and that's all you can do. Hopefully, they can take care of their business.   
 It's obviously nice to see blue on the board, but the points. You don't count the points until the match is over. I think we should be very happy with these conditions to actually play this well and get our fair share of points.  
  
  Q. Can you tell us about how the captains have been coaching you out there today during your play?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I mean, they've been coming up to us and I think just trying to keep us in a good mood. They have such big hearts and great fighting spirits. You see them out there, they smile, and you just want to fight even harder for the team.  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: You should see Ali when your match is going downhill or you start looking like it's coming to an end, and it's just enough to see her. She doesn't have to say anything, and that's inspiration enough.   
 When you see her, she's there for a reason. No words needed.  
  
  Q. What was the atmosphere like in terms of the crowds, the spectators, first Solheim Cup to start off?  
 SUZANN PETTERSEN: They were a bit quiet to start off this morning, well, obviously, 7:40, I don't know if I would have been here if I was in the crowd at 7:40.   
 I'm very, very pleased to see that many people come out. I guess this is a lovely day in Ireland. It hasn't rained, so, it can't get much better.   
 But it was a great atmosphere there during the end of the first rounds early on, and then all afternoon. It looked like it was packed, so fantastic to see.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT