LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 11, 2010
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I remember here last you had a young man that it was maybe the only time he ever caddies. I can't even remember the name, but they were from around here.
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah.

 Q. Just talk about today in general. The wind, I don't know. 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I think the wind was there already from the morning, so that wasn't really an advantage.
 But just trying to hit fairways, hit greens. I think I had a lot of good looks at birdie. I hit a lot of good putts. Couple that didn't drop; couple that did.
 Overall, really solid, and happy with the way I played.

 Q. A year ago you did fairly well here, and then you went on and won a major. When you think back about that, I mean, when you left here last year, I mean, were you feeling confident? I mean, did you pick up anything from here last year that...
 ANNA NORDQVIST: It was funny. This week was the year before McDonald's, as you said, last year. I think struggled. I don't really remember the week, but I think I struggled a little bit with my swing that week. I wasn't hitting it very well. I think the finished with a 67 the last day, so got it a little bit going. 
 But coming here this year compared to last year, you know, it's like day and night. So I'm really happy in the place where I'm at now. But it's sure has been a journey this last year.

 Q. I understand your birthday... 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yesterday.

 Q. You're 20... 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: 3. 

 Q. What do you do to celebrate the big 2-3 yesterday?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: My big 2-3. We had a barbecue at the house where I'm staying at this week. They made me a Swedish cake for birthday, which was really nice. I got a ton of presents, which I didn't expect. 
 But had a great time celebrating with my friends.

 Q. What was the coolest present you got?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: The coolest present -- well, I got Tiger Woods for my Nintendo Wii, so I think I'm gonna go home and practice a little bit. It's pretty nice. Got it from my caddie. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT