LPGA STATE FARM CLASSIC
June 14, 2010
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You went on to win the McDonald's after last year. Do you feel like this is built your confidence? Even though you didn't win, playing in these hash conditions, do you think it's built your confidence to go on for the rest of the LPGA season?  
     ANNA NORDQVIST: Absolutely. You know, I'm still -21 and feel very comfortable with my game. I think I'm working in the right direction and just kind of getting results a little bit from all the hard work I out in.   
     So it's definitely a move in the right direction, even though I didn't end up on top this week.  
  
  Q. What are some of things that you think you're going to have to work on in terms of your game coming out of this tournament and going into some of the ones coming up in the future?  
     ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I think, I mean, it's all about short game. I putted pretty well this week. You can always putt better. You know, get your rough shots down a little bit better than I did this week. So I think that's the key.   
  
  Q. Wasn't exactly the best conditions, but you guys were able to get in this final round today, and you battled through it.   
     ANNA NORDQVIST: I did. Well, I knew I had to make a couple birdies these last couple holes to give it a shot. But I gave this my best. I'm really happy with my finish, and I'm glad we got all done today.  
  
  Q. Did you feel on 16 when you missed the birdie putt that that may have been the tournament right there?   
     ANNA NORDQVIST: A little bit. Pretty much knew where she was at. Thought I hit a pretty good putt, but just broke a little bit too much. I mean, that's life.   
     I think I played very well. So even though I missed that one it wasn't the end of the world.   
  
  Q. Was the conditions, the weather, the water under your feet, was that something you obviously had to think about today?  
     ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, it was the same for everyone. It was kind of wet out there, but I have good shoes, so...  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT