AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2019
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you were frustrated with that finish, but great round of golf, how satisfied with your performance?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I played really well.  I feel like I've been playing really well all week.  I've been struggling a lot on the greens.  Today I hit it really close, so I made a few good putts.  Missed a 3-footer on 14, the tee shot.  Lipped-out almost 360.
The last holes I was struggling keeping my focus for 18 holes.  Definitely struggled a bit coming in, but felt pretty good.  Gave myself a lot of opportunities and that's all I can ask for.
Q. You did.  Great birdie at 2, taking advantage of the par 5, and this at 3.  Call this one for me.  (Video)?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I'm between driver and 3-wood and my 3-wood has been landing so soft off the tee, 197 in, it's going to come off of the middle of the green or just to the left of the pin.  The lie just made it come out a little bit more right.  Great shot, great putt.
Q. 2-under through three.  5, lovely iron shot in here.  How does the game feel at this point?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I felt good.  Gave myself a really good chance.  This was a really hard pin.  Really tough pin there.  Glad I only had a 4-footer.
Q. You know what it takes to win major championships, you've picked up two of them.  Mind-set-wise, what do you think now heading into Sunday?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, you've got to putt well the week of a major to have a chance.  And I didn't feel like I putted well at all the first few days.  Today felt a little better on the greens.  A few loose mistake, but if you get on a roll, anything can happen.  I don't know what scores are out there, but there's definitely birdies if you play well.
I just tried to stay patient.  I felt pretty good about my game and just trying to ride out the storm of bad scores and then get on a good run again.
Q. Really great round of golf.  So many positives in that round.  How do you reflect on it as a whole?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I played really well today.  I gave myself a lot of chances and I hit a lot of them close.  It wasn't the finish that I was hoping for.  I hit two good putts I thought.  The first one ran by a little too much and the second one just lipped-out.  Not much I can do about it.  But I've been playing well and that's where my focus is at.
Q. You started well with a couple of birdies.  Was that the mind-set to go out and try to get a fast start and be aggressive and see what could happen in terms of the leaderboard by the end of the day?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I knew I had been playing good the first two days.  Just had not gotten anything out of my game.  I just knew I had to try to stay patient, as hard as it sounds and as hard as it is.  I felt like I did good.  I got off to a hot start.  That kind of was really nice and then just kept going.
Q. You now what it takes to win, to win majors.  What is your sort of focus now looking at tomorrow?  Where do you think you'll be standing with your scorecard and how aggressive can you be around this course?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I'm quite a few back, so I wouldn't say it's a long shot, but it's going to need really, really low one tomorrow to even have a chance I think.  But I've just got to keep playing my game and give myself chances and hopefully the putter can be hot tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT