OMEGA DUBAI LADIES MASTERS
December 11, 2009
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was the key to your round today?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Being more aggressive with my irons I would say.   
  
  Q. What about the putting; that was pretty good, too, wasn't it?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I had my putting going a little bit. I hit a lot of good putts. A couple of them went in, a couple of them didn't; so I'm very pleased for today.  
  
  Q. Some people say you don't show very much emotion on the course, and you're a Swede; would you agree with that?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, well, the first two days, I was a little bit -- I was a little bit up and down. I thought I hit a lot of good putts. They didn't really go in.   
 Today, I don't know, I just tried to stay positive, you know.   
  
  Q. And how do you feel about the final round? Do you feel that you can win this one?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I'm very excited. I think I was seven behind going into Madrid. Got into the playoff.   
 So, anything can happen. Just going to shoot a really low score tomorrow.   
  
  Q. Rookie of the Year perhaps, do you think?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Hopefully. I'm just going to go out there and play my best and see what happens.  
  
  Q. Talking about the Christmas break and hopefully you'll be smiling; what are you going to be doing after this tournament?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I'm going to go home to Sweden. I haven't been in a while. See my friends and family and put my golf clubs away for a little bit and just enjoy.  
  
  Q. Next year, how can you improve?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I feel like I have a lot of things to work on. Just started to work on my fitness a little bit more. I have a lot of good people, people around me, so I'm just going to stick with my coaches.   
  
  Q. Thoughts going into the last day?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I was playing very solid, just trying to keep making putts. I thought I had a couple of good ones coming in and I wasn't able to make them. But I'm excited for tomorrow.   
  
  Q. You always seem so calm; is it more excited inside than you appear in the exterior?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I guess.  
  
  Q. You've had a couple of fantastic wins this year, how can you draw on that experience tomorrow?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I have had a really good year so far. One more round before I get to go on my Christmas break. It will be a good day and lots of fun and I love playing golf in all conditions, so it will be a good challenge for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT