LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
November 23, 2009
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   KIM BERARD: Congratulations, Anna.  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Thank you.  
  
  Q. You started off with a Rolex first-time win this year at a major, no less, the LPGA Championship.   
 Now you are closing out the season with a huge win at an event presented by Rolex. Let's go over your scorecard. You obviously had a great string of birdies there in the middle. That definitely put a lot of pressure on the field.   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I did. I think I started hitting it pretty solid from the beginning today. Made a birdie on No. 2. Hit just short of the green and chipped it to maybe ten feet and made birdie there.  
 Gave myself a lot of good chances. I thought I hit the putts where I wanted, but just didn't really get the pace.   
 Then No. 8, hit a hybrid in there and had a little bit longer putt, which I made, and just kept me going.  
 On 9, great 4-iron to, I don't know how far to the pin it was, but I think that got me going. Then just trusting the putting and let it happen.   
 And then just trying to stay in it and keep making birdies.  
 I made a bogey on 13, but that's gonna happen.   
 Then coming down the stretch, just staying aggressive. I was very, very happy with how I finished up the round.  
 KIM BERARD: Great. Questions for Anna.   
  
  Q. How aware were you of the player the year race? Did you put that out of your mind and focus on what you were doing?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: No, I knew that Lorena and Jiyai was gonna have a pretty tight fight today. I just think it's very fun to watch such two great players leaving it to the last tournament. Makes it more fun for the fans and everyone watching.   
 I got the great honor to play with Jiyai today. She played good. I think she put herself in a good position. Just Lorena played the best today, and she had a great year. Congratulations to her. It's fun to watch. I grew up watching her a lot, so it's very fun to see.   
  
  Q. There are so many off weeks next year on the LPGA schedule. Will you play some LET events, too?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Definitely. I grew up playing in Europe, and I feel very strong for Europe. I will definitely go back to Europe and play some over there, too.   
  
  Q. In terms of today's play, did you think you would have to go as low as you did to win? Were you trying to shoot a lower score and be very aggressive?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I definitely tried to be aggressive today. There were a lot of good players out there. It was pretty tight up the leaderboard, so, I mean, you really gotta shoot low in order to pull it off.  
 So I knew I had to get in some good rounds. Just very, very happy to -- that I did it.   
  
  Q. You said something to your caddie or your caddie said something to you and you guys gave kind of a little knuckle bump right before you tee'd off?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: This morning?   
  
  Q. Yeah. Do you remember what was said, or is that something you guys always do?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, something we always do. Try to be positive and look forward to the day.  
  
  Q. Would you mind sharing what you said? Is it private?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: No, i don't remember. Just go out and have a good day. Put yourself in a good position and be aggressive. But it's been fun.   
 You know, my caddie, Brian, it's been good teamwork out there. He should get a lot credit for this win.   
  
  Q. Some of the players have mentioned in the past, or this season, that you're quiet. They write about you and call you the shy Swede. You don't have a lot of personality. You have personality, but you don't show it. Can you talk about your personality?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I think a lot of people see me as shy. I guess they don't know me. No, I'm kind of the person who maybe doesn't say as much in public. Once you get to know me, I'm very open, and hopefully very friendly.  
 I might not be the big talker, like the one who talks the most, but definitely if you get to know me, I'll -- I hope I'm kind of laid back.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, no. I mean, it's kind of like I don't think you can see if I'm playing good or if I'm playing bad. It's kind of neutral. More positive, hopefully.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT