LPGA TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY ROLEX
November 22, 2009
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Talk about the second round.   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Oh, yeah. Took a while to get done.   
  
  Q. Just talk about how you played today.   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Um, talking about the second round, I think the rules official did a very good job in preparing the course, the course maintenance.   
 I mean, I think we're all just very happy to be playing here been ready to go for a couple days. Just really enjoying myself. Played a good par on No. 1, and then just kept playing solid and gave myself a lot of good birdie opportunities.   
 Rolled a couple in on the back nine. Just hitting it solid and being very comfortable on the course.   
  
  Q. How were the course conditions today?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I think it's good. Obviously it's still raining a lot so it's a little bit wet, but I think the course is in good shape. The greens are good, so I think they did a very good job.   
  
  Q. Was it tough waiting over a day and a half to play that second round?   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I mean, it is what it is. I think you just gotta stay positive. I just wanted, you know, to play if it was Friday or if it was Sunday. I'm just very happy, happy to play. Being patient and staying confident, I think helped me a lot.  
  
  Q. What did you did during your spare time? I know you're out here a lot.   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I've been sleeping a lot. I was pretty sick last week, so just trying to catch up on sleep. Not doing much. Watching TV, trying to save your energy.  
  
  Q. Right. Think back to that double bogey you made on the last hole in your first round.   
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I mean, I was playing really, really well in the first round. I was 4-under after 17, and then hit it in the fairway bunker and chipped that to the lip and couldn't make up-and-down when I missed the green.   
 You know, those are frustrating, but you gotta put it behind. I was playing really good for 17 holes. So I just felt like I was back on track today.  
  
  Q. What's it gonna take to win tomorrow, do you think?  
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Just gonna go out there and do the best you can. There's a lot of good players out there. I'm ready to go, but you gotta have a good day. I'm just gonna try to go slow if I can do.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT