MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 13, 2009
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   DANA GROSS-RHODE: Anna, you are the third-round leader in the clubhouse. We obviously are going to resume play tomorrow at the McDonald's LPGA Championship. It was tough, I assume, coming in for two hours, but then on your last hole you make the birdie to take the outright lead again. How is that going into tomorrow? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Obviously finishing with the birdie brings me some good momentum for tomorrow. The rain delay, I think everyone just made the best out of it. 

 Q. Do you at all feel unlucky that you did not finish, so tomorrow, you've got to come out and kill some time in the middle of the day before you get your fourth round underway?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: No, we are not the only group out there and I'm glad we got to finish 15 holes today.

 Q. Can you talk about your putt on the 15th, where you were, how far you had, and what you saw in the break and all. 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I mean, I've been putting real well these last couple days, and I thought I rolled a lot of good putts today. I was on the fringe; I think it was maybe eight yards or so. I mean, you just pick the line and it went in.

 Q. You had quite a few of your countrymen playing for the Stanley Cup; are you a follower of hockey, and do you follow it all because of those guys? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I mean, I grew up watching hockey. Obviously it was a big match yesterday. I followed it and I mean, I was -- of course, I was rooting for the Swedes. But I think they did a good job, even though they lost. 

 Q. When you watch a sporting event like that and it's so exciting and it comes down to one game for everything, can that inspire you, even though it's a different sport, for what you're trying to do here?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I mean, definitely, I think it's -- I mean, no matter what kind of sporting event, that kind of atmosphere, you can -- I think that brings a good feeling. That's something you can take out of it. 

 Q. So how do you spend where you are time during the rain delay? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: First I was down in the locker room but then when it was going to be some time, I went to the clubhouse and sat there with a few of my friends.

 Q. It's going to be early tomorrow, as one questioner said, you're going to have to play a couple of holes and then wait; have you thought yet about how you're going to approach it and what time you're waking up and what you're going to be thinking about during the idle time before your final round?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: No. I mean, after this, I'll go home and eat some dinner and go to bed and be up early and play those holes. And then, I mean, probably going to go back and rest and relax before I tee it up again. 

 Q. Is there in any part of that routine that you can see or you feel, is there any disadvantage in any of that?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I haven't done it before, so I don't have an answer to that. 

 Q. How was the course after the delay? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, the wind picked up and obviously it rain are started to rain when we teed off, and then after that it was perfect weather. 
 Well, I mean, I thought the course is in great condition. I didn't think the course was that affected by the rain. 

 Q. So you spent the delay with some friends; are these fellow golfers on the Tour?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah. 

 Q. Also, are there people who are just here following you, friends, relatives, anyone with you this weekend? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I spent some time with a few fellow players and my caddie, Gustaf, and my coach, Katarina Van Gogh, who flew in from Sweden, so I have great company.
 DANA GROSS-RHODE: Thank you all very much, and Anna, thank you for coming in and good luck tomorrow. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT