MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY COCA-COLA
June 12, 2009
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   JASON TAYLOR: Another good day for you, 8-under overall after the birdie on your last hole, which puts you one stroke ahead of everyone else going into round three. If you would, just talk a little bit about the day. 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I was just trying to go out there and have fun and enjoy the day. I think I had a pretty solid day. I really had to pace myself because there was a lot of waiting out there; we were playing in twosomes who had to wait a lot. Just a lot of patience, and hit fairways and hit greens. I mean, the putts are going to drop. 

 Q. You talked yesterday about the adjustments of playing on the Tour but yet there quite a few rookies on the leaderboard, at least three of you; do you have any explanation for that?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: No, I mean, I don't know. I think we are all here to learn. I don't really have an answer for that. 

 Q. Going back to her question, talking about how new it is to be a rookie on the Tour; how new is it to be leading a major after two rounds, how does it feel?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I mean, it feels great. I've had a lot of fun so far. I mean, it's my first major as a pro; I played the British Open, '07, '08. I mean, it's a great experience so far.

 Q. How is the course playing today compared to yesterday? It seems like the scores across the board are a little bit higher. 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I thought it played pretty similar. I thought it was a little bit different wind today. I played in the afternoon today, so it picked up a little bit. But I mean, overall, it played pretty similar. 

 Q. You were 9-under par after your first nine, which is the back nine, and then you made a couple of bogeys. What were you telling yourself to get your plan on track, or did the bogeys affect you or bother you at all?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: No, I made a bogey on 18 and I made a bogey on 4. I mean, you just have to be patient and keep going, because I knew I was hitting it solid. I just tried to pace myself and look forward to the next holes. 

 Q. You said playing in a twosome that you had to wait a lot, and obviously you were behind the Wie threesome; did that actually help you stay in the moment a little bit more with each shot because you had to concentrate more?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, you definitely had to work a little bit harder, because I mean, there was a lot of waiting. You were standing over the ball, so I mean, you have to make the best out of it, and I thought I did pretty good. 

 Q. Do you feel ready to win a major?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I mean, I'm here to learn, and we'll see in the next couple of days. I'm just going to try to focus on my game, and if I'm ready, I'm ready. 

 Q. What would you say is the biggest pressure you've felt tournament-wise up till now has been in your experience? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I don't really remember. I think it was the first time I played in the British Open, because I mean, that was in St. Andrews and I really wanted to play good. That was probably the most nervous I was. 

 Q. How did that turn out? 
 ANNA NORDQVIST: It turned out pretty good. I made the cut and finished in the 50s I think. 

 Q. Are you a better player now?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, definitely. I have a lot more experience now. 

 Q. Forgive the presumption, but did you grow up wanting to be like Annika Sorenstam? Was that something that was sort of your inspiration?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: Annika has always been my role model, and I always looked up top what she's accomplished during her career. She's really a meaningful influence in motivating me to work harder. She shows that someone from Sweden can really succeed if they have -- I mean, if they work hard and are really dedicated. 

 Q. If Annika was your role model, how did you end up at the rival school from the one she went to?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I went to Arizona State University and I was fortunate to get a scholarship there. First time I came to Arizona, I loved the place, good weather, so I was choosing -- I was looking at that school. But ASU had a great program, some great players, and I really loved Phoenix and I'm still based out there. 
 So I was there 2 1/2 years, and I had a great experience. 

 Q. Sitting on top of the leaderboard and could be in the last group; what adjustments do you make to having a lot more eyes on you versus maybe what you had today?
 ANNA NORDQVIST: I'm just trying to go out there and have fun, trying to learn as much as possible, because that's why I'm here. 
 JASON TAYLOR: Thanks, Anna. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT