THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 4, 2019
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Anna, you've been showing some signs of life lately on the course and getting back into contention.  What's going well for you now that hasn't been in the past?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I feel like I'm a lot more consistent.  Been working so hard on my ball-striking.  I just feel like myself again.  Feel look I hit it really well going into KPMG but just kind of lost it a little bit in the rain there the first afternoon.   
But last week in Arkansas I hit it really solid.  If I can get back to hitting the irons like I know how to, I feel like it makes the difference.  Today I hit it really well.  I had to find myself a lot of 9-irons, 8-iron and everything gets so close, you know you're swinging well.   
 Q.  When you start to see some putts drop and start to get under par, and way under par, does it change the way you think mentally out there?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well this is just a course that for some reason you know you have to make birdies.  Played well here last year so I have good memories, but when you don't birdie a couple in a row you know you're kind of getting a little behind, so I just try to keep making birdies and keep staying aggressive.   
But it's fun.  I mean, we made a lot of birdies in our group today.  I like this course.  Good memories; good fun today.   
 Q.  64.  This course has treated very well.  You shot 67 every round here last year; 64 here.  What is it about Thornberry Creek that suits your game so well?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I don't know.  I mean, I like the way it sets up.  I hit it really well here last year and I been hitting it good lately, so just giving myself a lot of chances today.   
Was up able to get it up there on three par-5s today so I think that made a difference from in the past.  You know, it's kind of an attacking golf course and you got to have to try and make birdies.   
Today I hit it close and I had a lot of opportunities and made some good putts.   
 Q.  Do you prefer a golf course that makes you attack like this one?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Usually I prefer a tougher course.  It seems lately that we've had some courses where it's been pretty soft so you can throw a dart there at the hole.  But I like a little bit mixture of both.   
 Q.  And four birdies in a row coming down to the end of your round today.  What clicked into gear?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I mean, I birdied 10.   
I hit a really good putt on 11.   
I had a (indiscernible) lip out from like 20 feet on 12.   
Going down 13 I just hit it short of the green there and chipped it up and made a good 10-footer for birdie.   
Then had a six, seven-footer for birdie on the next.   
Hit it on in two on 15 and then I had like six-, seven-footer on 16.  I was just able to get it close to the pin.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT