KPMG WOMEN'S PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
October 10, 2020
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   We're here with Anna Nordqvist who just shot a 2-under 68.  Three rounds in the 60s is a great way to set yourself up for a final round.  How are you feeling after your round today?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I'm feeling pretty good.  The wind makes it really tough out there, and it felt like it was a lot of tucked pins there on the back nine, especially with the way the wind was blowing.  I feel like I hit a lot of good shots and kept my patience up out there.
Q. Had the little hiccup on 18, but I think one of the highlights of your round was your streak of three birdies at 6, 7 and 8.  Could you tell us about those three birdies?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I hit a great shot in there with my 9-iron to probably a good five feet on 6.  7, I thought I hit a really good drive.  It went through, so a great shot out of the rough and made probably a 20-footer and I hit it probably inside 15 feet on 8 and then hit another good shot on 9.  But I just played a little bit too much break.  There was a lot of good holes out there.
THE MODERATOR:   How has the course changed from Monday until today?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I would say it obviously plays a little bit firmer, especially the greens.  I bogeyed 18, but there's just no way you can get to that pin.  I had a 7-iron in, probably should have hit an 8, just to leave myself just short of the green.  But it just makes it hard to get close to the hole.  Sometimes like 30 feet away feels like a good shot.
Definitely the wind I feel like has been the biggest factor the last couple days.
THE MODERATOR:   It definitely has been really windy.  How do you get your mind wrapped around the wind constantly changing and messing with the course in front of you almost?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I feel like it's been a little bit different.  It kept changing a little bit on the back nine.  There was a few I found myself in between clubs, and trusted the wind, I went over on 12, probably the worst place to be, a few of the crosswinds I thought would be hurting a little bit more than they actually did.  I was long on 15, what I thought was a pretty good shot.  It just makes it tough, but it's the same for everyone, and I guess that's the biggest challenge here on this course.
Q. One of the big challenges of winning majors is just getting yourself there on Sunday to have a chance.  What are your emotions to have this great opportunity ahead of you?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I mean, I'm very pleased with myself and the way I've been playing the last couple days.  That's all I can ask for.  It is a tough golf course, so I feel you can't look behind or look ahead because you have a challenge right in front of you.  I feel like on this course anything can happen, but I'm just happy to be in a good position.
Q. What do you think will be the biggest factor tomorrow, if you do "this" well you'll be right at the end?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, obviously it depends a little bit on the wind.  On major Sunday you know there's going to be some tough pins out there.  If you can just manage your strategy and manage your emotions, all I can focus on is myself and doing the best I can, and hopefully continue to play some solid golf.
Q. You're going to be finishing tomorrow not too long after you normally would have started a final round of a major.  Inbee says she's not a morning person, but what are your thoughts on having an early start on a Sunday?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   It's definitely going to be kind of weird, but I feel like all year we've kind of had the horseshoe early starts for the final rounds because of daylight.  I know, like it was really chilly when I came to the course this morning, and it was about 7:30, so hopefully it's not too bad.  I see there might be some rain in the forecast.  We'll see what happens tomorrow.
You know, there's definitely some adrenaline, so I'm sure it won't be that hard to wake up tomorrow.
Q. You won a major in some of the worst conditions I've ever seen on a golf course.  Do you feel like since you've been through that, nothing can stop you in terms of weather?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I mean, I guess I've been acclimatized living in Florida and Arizona and playing in good weather for the last, whatever, 10, 15 years.  I'm not so fond of the cold.  I guess this is a little bit more similar to conditions that I grew up playing in, but it's been a while since I've played a lot of golf in it.  But definitely enjoy seeing like the fall colors because I've only been home once since basically I turned pro to experience fall.  I'm enjoying it.
Q. You won this event 11 years ago; what does experience mean as far as dealing with the pressures of tomorrow and being patient enough to succeed?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I feel like it's something that no one can take away from me, and it's obviously one of my most proud moments as a pro.  It's just a great feeling knowing that my name is on the trophy, but I can't really focus too much ahead.  I'm just trying to stay in the moment and stick to my game plan.  I mean, there's a lot of good golfers up there, and there's been a few good rounds, so anything can happen tomorrow.
Q. How much patience do you need to deal with what you had to deal with, with the wind, and especially tomorrow in the final round of a major?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I feel like the biggest thing is being patient, hitting a 9-iron or wedge sometimes 20 feet right or left of the pin and being fine with that, because I think a lot of times you feel like you need to be a little bit more aggressive, but some of the pins you just can't get to.
Q. There is a late scoring opportunity here with the par-5 16th, but otherwise as you look at the finish, how difficult will it be for a player needing one or two birdies in this closing stretch?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I feel like it all depends on a little bit of the wind and where they put the pins.  I can't get to 18 pin today.  I had 160 to the hole and it's sloping severe and the wind was hard off the right, helping.  17 was the same, stuck in between.  The greens are just so firm, it's hard to get after that one.  It obviously depends a little bit where the pins are.  But I feel like every hole has a challenge itself, so anything can really happen on this golf course.
Q. Where did your ball go, your approach on 18?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I think it kicked on the left side of the green, but it's just so firm with the wind so it went over the green and then I chipped and I didn't make the putt.
Q. How far was the putt on 18?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Well, my par putt was probably a good 20 feet.  Yeah, the wedge shot was a pretty thick lie there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT