PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 23, 2019
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Thoughts on the day.  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I mean, it was blowing hard into the wind on -- well, coming back there, so to get -- I mean, I had 169 in there, so I hit a good 5-iron to, what, three, four feet.  It was quite the shot.  That was one of the tougher pins today, especially with that wind.   
 Q.  When you did start off with the bogey and then you birdied 7, and then that kind of got you going.  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, there was just nothing you could do on 3.  Hit a good drive, but it was 217 and I knew I wasn't going to get it there.  Ended up laying up and then, what, a 9-iron in the middle of the fairway.  I'm in a divot where it's just really firm; just ball sitting down so much.  I really have no shot.   
I actually got a pretty decent shot, but then ended up kicking off the green and just didn't make up and down.  So it wasn't really bad.  Not like I did anything wrong there.  Hit it to, what, a foot and a half on 7, so that was great to get like something back there.  Then I think two and a half feet with a 5-iron on 9.   
Definitely a lot of the quality shots out there.   
 Q.  Talking about missing the cuts and then like a complete turnaround, did you feel like you weren't far off before?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I feel like I've played a lot of good -- well, can't say good golf, but I feel like I play a lot solid golf.  Just haven't really got anything out of it.  Today was very consist, solid, and didn't make any big mistakes.   
So definitely nice that two weeks off, but you never like missing cuts, especially when it just didn't feel like I played that bad.   
 Q.  Talking about no big mistakes.  Was that the key?  You were on a roll.  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I'm not a big fan of poa greens and it's --  that's what we played in L.A. and San Fran.  I found them very bumpy.  I struggled a little bit on the greens, so definitely nice to be coming out refreshed here.   
 Q.  Obviously after being not far off and then shooting a round like today, how important is it to build on this and continue the momentum as the tournament goes on?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I'm really not trying to look too far ahead.  I found the conditions really hard this morning, and you have to hit a lot of good shots.  Right now I'm just very proud of myself what I did this morning.  Not really trying to worry about the past or the future.  Just let it be.  Definitely very happy with myself and the game we played today.  Paul, my caddie, has been a great support.  Probably believes in me more than I do.   
It was nice.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT