KIA CLASSIC
March 27, 2019
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  As a past champion, what do you remember about your win at the Kia Classic?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I had a great final round.  I think I shot 5-under that day to win by one.  Always a great memory.  I remember hitting a 6-iron into 18 (indiscernible); made a great par there.   
So it's always going to make you feel special coming here.  This event is run so well.  I mean, we had Lindsay as a team liaison at International Crown, and just seeing how hard she works there and how hard she works for this event and everyone, it's just always special.   
Coming here for media day you see all the work that goes behind.  A lot of good memories.  Obviously being in the golf industry you have a lot of friends here over the years coming here.  It's fun.   
 Q.  How has your game developed since then?  What have you been working on lately?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I think I'm a better player now than back then.  Just more years experience on tour.  Obviously just got to stay patient and wait for everything to click.  I'm a good ball-striker now and been working very hard to find the consistency.  It was a little bit up and down the last two years after struggling a little bit with my health and stuff.   
But finding the groove again and it makes things a little bit easier.   
 Q.  You're getting engaged or are engage.  You're getting married.  What's that preparation like?  How excited are you?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I'm obviously very excited.  We got engaged in December and going to wait until next summer to get married.   
I kind of enjoy like planning things, so we're going to plan our own wedding, which is kind of exciting.  It's just going to be a fun journey.  A lot of friends and family are obviously very excited for us.  We're going to do it in Scotland.  It's going to be a mixture of Scottish and Swedish culture.   
It's definitely going to be something I'm going to look forward to.  I think the whole (indiscernible) is going to keep my mind a little bit off the game, off the course.   
 Q.  It's probably going to be a really good distraction for you to be able to think and plan about something really exciting coming up.  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I been on tour ten years.  You definitely get -- the traveling part is definitely exhausting at times.  You come back year after year.  This kind of like puts things in perspective a little bit.  You plan for your journey ahead.   
 Q.  What are you looking forward to most about the season for this year?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I think playing Solheim Cup would be amazing thing to do, especially marrying a Scottish guy.  There are a lot of people I know there now.  Also my family being very close.  That's definitely the main goal for the year.   
It's been, like I said, a little bit up and down.  Just been very tired the last couple years.  I'm just finding my health, getting a little bit better, and so it's a little bit more -- I have a little bit more energy now, which is all I care about.  It's nice to see.   
 Q.  In terms of health, would you say it's more like exhaustion?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I think probably last year I was mental and physically exhausted already in April.  If you look from a year ago I've come a long way.  The results hasn't really been there, but at the same time, you just got to kind of take baby steps.   
If I can be healthy and feel good, like the way I feel now compared to a year ago is a massive difference.  Last year was a year I had to push through.  I kept pushing and my body, nothing really responded.  It's a year that I'll probably try to forget.   
I learned a lot.  I'm just excited to be feeling so much better this time of year now than last year.   
 Q.  What do you think has helped that process?  Taking more days off?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah.  I took a long break away from golf at the end of the season.  Went skiing for the first time in 15 years and loved it.  Spending time with friends and family, but just getting away from the game for a little bit longer time than I had done in the past.   
I feel like I have a really good balance in life.  When I come home I don't really work on golf.  Obviously with wedding coming up and engagement makes it easier to put things in perspective.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT