THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 7, 2018
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Is it the kind of week where you just shoot what you can shoot and hope for the best the way Sei Young is going right now, huh?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, it's definitely attack mode this week and you got to make birdies.  Shot 5-under today and pretty happy.  I mean, got off to a good start on the front nine and then just kept giving myself chance after chance.  I had a lip-out on 10, 12, and 13, so kind of annoying.   
And then hit a good putt on, what, 15?   
So it just felt like it wasn't really much going.   
Made a good birdie an 16.   
Par'd 17 and 18.   
So it's been solid.  I been playing pretty solid this week.  It's just about making the putts.   
 Q.  Anna, you've won at Founders Cup and ShopRite, tournaments where the scores are traditionally low.  Is that something you kind of thrive on, theses birdiefests?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I always aid in Phoenix that I wasn't a big fan of that place because you had to shoot like 25-under, and all of a sudden a few days later I went to shoot 25-under to win.   
So yeah, I mean, I love -- obviously everyone loves making birdies.  You have a lot of opportunity out here.  Usually I like it a little bit more challenging and a little bit more where you really have to hit good golf shots, a little bit more penalizing.   
But it's just great to see making birdies.  You have to shoot a low one tomorrow to be up there.   
 Q.  As experienced as you are, you've played enough golf to know that probably no lead is safe.  Is that kind of the mentality you take going out there tomorrow?  Just go out there and play and let the cards fall where they are?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I mean, there are some low scores out there.  I shot 5-under yesterday and 5-under today and feel like I left quite a few out there.  You definitely can shoot a low one out there.  There was a few scores earlier 9-under, so you can definitely shoot good ones out there.   
The wind was a little bit tricky today and got some of those wedge shots into the wind; a little hard controlling the spin.   
There are a lot of players out there, so if you can shoot four solid rounds, I would be pretty happy.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT