SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 8, 2018
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Again, what is it about here?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Honestly, I have a lot of good memories from here.  It's a place that makes me happy.  Seem to be striking the ball better today than for most of the year, so was very consistent.  Gave myself a lot of chances.   
I knew the greens were going to be bumpy this afternoon.  I mean, I started with a three-footer straight out of line on 10.   
But felt like I had a good attitude about it.  Was trying to stay patient out there.  Very happy to post a good round.   
 Q.  How much does experience have to do with that?  You've been out here late afternoons when the greens are probably not behaving as planned.  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah.  I mean, I played this course many times.  You just know the afternoons are going to be a little bit tougher, so definitely helps.  This is my tenth year on tour, so I've done my fair share of rounds out here.   
 Q.  The fact that you've had success here, is it just like you see all the shots better here?  You said you hadn't really been striking the ball that well.  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I mean, I think it's definitely a course that you kind of got to know where to be and not to be.  You got to hit a lot of good shots.  The wind was really strong today.  You're hitting -- on some of the holes you're playing a good 25 yard wind.  What's going to be the right club?   
So, no, I mean, I'm very happy.  It was a solid round from tee to green.  Taking it day by day, but very happy with the start.   
 Q.  Recall seeing the guys -- I can't remember what hole it was -- but with the shirts that spelled out your name.  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I didn't see.  Like I was so focused.  I mean, it was gusting quite a bit.  Like I hit a good shot but the gust just came up, so I was just focusing on where the ball landed.   
I was walking up to the hole and I saw them wearing the shirts.  I don't think anyone ever done anything like that for me, so I was very touched by it.  It was great to make the birdie there, too.   
But I do have a lot of friends and a lot of supporters in this area, and it meant a lot that he came up.   
 Q.  Does that help, too, just from a comfort standpoint, having a lot of people supporting you out there?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah.  I mean, there was a lot of people on the 10th tee when we started.  It just means a lot that a lot ever people like to watch me play and come out and support me.  Just knowing that I have a lot of friends here, it means a lot.   
 Q.  I think you're eighth on tour in driving accuracy.  What do you do to be so consistent?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I mean, I feel like this year my ball striking has been very inconsistent.  I feel for me I've been quite off.   
But I feel like it's always been -- I've always been pretty straight and try to keep it pretty simple.  I'm never going to be a power player.  Some courses I wish I was.   
I feel like I need to play to my strengths, and hitting a lot of fairways and a lot of greens has always been my game, so I'm just trying to stick to it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT