SOLHEIM CUP
August 20, 2017
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's your plan, couple of weeks off?
ANNA NORDQVIST: We'll see.
Q. You're not supposed to play next week, are you?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I am supposed to.  We'll see.
Q. Top quality match.  Just your emotions right now, having been 4-up through 9, then the amazing fight back from Lexi.  And what a response there at 18.
ANNA NORDQVIST: I'm just speechless right now.  I played great all day.  And the way she turned it around, I mean, I hit it to, what, 3 feet on 11 and she ends up making for eagle.  And hit a great shot into 15, after we tied 14, made a good putt there.  Didn't quite expect her to make that putt and mine ended up lipping out.
So quality golf from Lexi on the back nine.  To be 8-under over seven holes, very impressed.  While I had a great number into the last, hit a really good golf shot.  But I'm tired and speechless right now.  It's been a great week.
Q. When she was really putting pressure on the back, what did you say to yourself to try to stay calm and try and produce something at the last few holes?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I mean, I felt like I put myself in good spots.  Eleven, I hot it up close.  14, birdied.  15, I hit a difficult putt for eagle and (inaudible).
Q. (Inaudible)?
ANNA NORDQVIST: It's been a great week.  It's been great to be here.  There have been so many fans.  I had a lot of family here and just very happy.  Happy with my game.  Pretty exhausted right now, not going to lie.
But I feel like we played our hearts out.  It's been a pleasure to play under Annika, and just watched her grow through these last 18 months, it's been a pleasure to watch.
Q. Given your health condition, heading in with the glandular fever, if it hadn't been the Solheim Cup would you have been here?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yes, this was my goal, when I found out, I was struggling.  Told Annika to sit me out on Friday afternoon, which she did.  There's no way I would have been able to play Friday afternoon.  I was exhausted.
This morning it was a little bit rough and just tried to push through.  And a lot of help and support from my team and from everyone from Europe.  So made it through need a couple of days rest.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT