THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 15, 2017
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about the eagle on 15.  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I hit a great shot in there.   
 Q.  What was the club and distance?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I hit a 50-degree wedge and I had 99 yards.   
 Q.  When was the last time you spun one back like that?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: It's been a while.  I'm usually very close, so I was just kind of excited that it went in.   
 Q.  How about your round as a whole today?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I mean, I feel like I didn't do anything really yesterday, and then just kind of like waiting around, so I was just getting ready to play.  I haven't played much the last couple months, so definitely feel like I need some more tournament play, but obviously excited to put up a good number today.   
 Q.  Last week, even though you missed the cut, did it kind of help you get back in the flow?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I mean, last week was really hard.  I absolutely flushed it.  I striped the ball for two days straight, I just couldn't make a putt, and I was quite disappointed.  As much as you try to take a positive from a week like that, just missing the cut when I hit the ball really well and I feel like I did everything that you could, but I just couldn't make the putts.  Last week was kind of hard because I didn't really get any momentum, and that was obviously the first tournament back after the Solheim Cup.  Just kind of a little bit hard having two weeks off there and getting back.  Just try to make the best out of it every day.   
 Q.  Did you expect it would take you so long to recover fully from your glandular fever?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I mean, as soon as I got it, like there was tons of people that reached out to me, and I kind of figured that -- I was obviously hoping that it was going to be short, but it definitely has been a little bit of a process, longer than expected.  But it's been two and a half months now, and I still -- I'm getting a lot better, so that's all I'm trying to focus on now, and hopefully in a few more weeks, I'll be fully recovered.   
 Q.  Is it just a terrible tiredness but long before you'd expect it, or how would you sum it up?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I mean, being a professional athlete, it's like anything, it's obviously easier to recover from it when you aren't training or practicing, but having to cut off a lot of my training has been quite frustrating because I'm allowed to practice, but there's just been weeks where I pushed it a little too hard like Solheim Cup, so I had to pull out the following week, but then I had two weeks off.  Played last week, and I feel pretty good this week.   
 Q.  And the way you played in the Solheim Cup, how much did that take it out of you because it was such an incredible three days for you.  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I knew coming in that I wasn't going to be able to play five matches, and even playing two matches in one day was kind of a bit of a push.  But you have a lot of adrenaline, so that kind of pushed me through the week.  I was scheduled to play.  I had all my flights and everything booked for Canada, but obviously disappointed I had to pull out of the week, but I felt like it was going to have to be a week that I was just going to have to try to survive every day, and long-term that wasn't going to help me get healthy, so getting those two weeks, I'm a lot better.   
 Q.  When you're sitting there feeling absolutely ill, what do you do?  Do you read?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Climbing the walls.  I actually watched quite a bit of women's golf, quite a lot of LPGA.  Yeah, a lot of girls were playing.   
 Q.  What struck you as you watched the others?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I mean, I haven't watched golf in so long, but I feel like it's a lot -- you make a couple putts and you gain a little bit of momentum.  Yeah, just a lot of good play.   
 Q.  Any players surprising you that you suddenly saw that you hadn't really noticed before?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: No, I mean, there's a lot of players who have been playing well.  There's Moriya Jutanugarn playing well today and been playing well this year.  Just a lot of good players out there, and it's fun to watch.   
 Q.  Can you just give your opinion on Mel Reid and Georgia Hall, two of our girls?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I mean, I got to play golf with Georgia for four rounds at the Solheim Cup, and huge fan.  I was very honored to have her as my partner.  She's very fearless and just enjoyed her character and her personality.  She's going to have a bright future ahead of her.   
 Q.  And Mel?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Mel is fun.  You know, we played amateur golf together.  She's a great teammate on the Solheim Cup, and she's always pumped up, good teammate in the team room.  Enjoy her, as well.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT