SOLHEIM CUP
August 19, 2017
Jodi Ewart Shadoff
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  A point for the Europeans.  How sweet does this feel, Jodi?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Feels great.  First point of the week.  I've been playing decent all week, and I think we played great today.  So, really happy getting the first point.   
 Q.  How much did you feel the pressure heading out given what happened with the four-ball, Anna?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I really didn't think much of it.  I felt like we had a good morning this morning, and was ready to go this afternoon.  And I was very excited to play with Jodi today.  She played great and just made tons of birdies, so it was a fun afternoon.   
 Q.  What about this partner?  We know the struggles she's had with the (inaudible).  She's been a star this week, hasn't she?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Absolutely.  I don't know how many birdies we had today, but, yeah, she played awesome.  Really had fun playing with her.   
 Q.  Anna, undefeated to this point.  I understand you're feeling a little jaded, a little tired.  Physically going to be okay for tomorrow?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yes, hopefully the tee times are a little bit later, a little Diet Coke going at the end there.  But definitely tired.  But played really well and excited to have a lot of energy with Jodi today.   
 Q.  Desperately needed point for the Europeans.  Jodi, (inaudible)?  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: Yeah, it was a lot of birdies out there, not just between me and Anna, but Lizette and Angel played great, too.  It was a lot of fun playing with Anna.  We have very similar games.  We were there for each other when we needed each other.   
 Q.  Now Anna, word from your team that you might decline (indiscernible) because you're absolutely exhausted.  And I know the adrenalin had something to do with the way you played today.  (Inaudible) tomorrow?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Absolutely.  I was tired coming down the stretch.  But Jodi made some great birdies there.  Some Diet Coke to keep me going.  But I'm excited.  We played great today, and I'm really happy to have Jodi as my partner putting the point the board.   
 Q.  Jodi, (indiscernible) other matches.  How determined were you to not let your match (indiscernible) --  
JODI EWART SHADOFF: To see the three (inaudible), it was important for us to get that point.  And it's important for us to go out and support the other girls out there now.   
 Q.  And your team has pretty good (inaudible)?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Absolutely.  You saw it happen in '15.  And there's matches left, I think there's still a chance.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT