RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 3, 2017
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Coming into this, you took a couple of weeks off for bedrest.  How are you feeling?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I'm a little exhausted right now, but today has been a pretty good day.  I had a rough day yesterday, so I didn't do much practice, didn't play, but it was amazing how well I was hitting the ball today.  Gave myself a lot of opportunities, and it seemed like a pretty easy 4-under today, actually.
Q. Good to hear because conditions right now are pretty scorable.  What is your plan for the afternoon?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I'm just going to go home and rest, but we were lucky this morning we didn't get any rain, and this is as easy as it's going to play this week, so you just try to take advantage of it, but I feel like I'm striking the ball well.  I couldn't quite get the reads on the greens today, but 4-under, now feeling great.  I'm excited.
Q. The Solheim Cup obviously looms, and as a result of what you've been battling you weren't able to qualify automatically for the team.  How aware are you of the movement in the standings and what you need to do to play another team?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I mean, obviously you want to play your way on to the team and that's been my main goal, so it was definitely a really hard phone call making to Annika saying that I have to pull out of Scottish Open at the last minute.  This will be my first late withdrawal in nine years on Tour, so it wasn't something I was planning on.  But I feel like I've been playing good this year, and I'll leave it at that.
Q. What were you able to do yesterday, and what did you do?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I just putted a little bit in the morning and hit a few balls, but nothing major.  I was out of here by 10:00.
Q. When you were home, what would a typical day be like for you, just in bed all day or were you able to --
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I mean, no, I wasn't allowed to practice, so I hit probably 30 balls on Friday, and then I came -- I flew to Scotland on Friday night just so I could get a few days to acclimatise.  I hit another 50, 80 balls on Saturday and didn't do much Sunday.
Q. Have you been binge-watching Netflix or reading a bunch of books?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I was fortunate to be home with family, so seeing my nieces and nephews and just a few friends, but everyone else understands I'm sick, so no one really wants to be surrounded by me.
Q. Is this home in Florida or home in --
ANNA NORDQVIST: No, I actually went home to Sweden, so I was lucky to have almost a week and a half home.
Q. Because you weren't really able to prepare for a couple weeks and you were feeling ill, did you approach this week with any different expectations?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, in my mind I'm not sick, and I'm just trying to go at it in the same way I always do, so it's been a lot about staying patient and knowing that I've done a lot of the work.  I like to feel prepared and knowing that I've practiced.  Definitely really not the same feeling, but at the same time, I'm just excited to be playing.
Q. When did you first start feeling poorly?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I got a bad eye infection Thursday before U.S. Open, and then my sore throat started Friday, the following morning.  It was really sharp pain for a good 14 days.
Q. A sore throat?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah.  I was waking up every morning hoping it was going to get better, but it didn't.
Q. So that's what you played through at the U.S. Women's Open then?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, but I'm not a quitter, and I teed up and didn't want to give in, so I just tried to keep my head up and be happy I'm playing.
Q. You played here as a junior, didn't you?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I actually played in 2004.  It was the Duke of York, so it was a mixed event, girls and boys, and McIlroy ended up winning that one.  I obviously have good memories from here.  It's one of my favourite courses, and I think it's one of the best links courses there is.
Q. And you won the girls' section?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I believe I did.  I was sitting next to the Duke of York the following year at the dinner.  I didn't know what to talk about because I don't know cricket.
Q. Was there anybody else in this week's field who was playing in that tournament?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I can't remember.  I mean, it's so long ago.
Q. A lot of players have said this is one of their favourite courses.  What is it about this course?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I think it's the views.  They have a lot of good holes here.  Back nine is 11, 12 -- I don't think there's a single bad hole on the back nine.  I think we're fortunate to be here.
Q. Have you thought about the Solheim Cup captain's picks this weekend?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I mean, I think I've done what I can up to this point.  My main concern is just getting healthy because I don't want to let down my team.  It would be devastating not being able to play.  Hopefully, I mean, we'll take it day by day and get as much rest as possible.  I obviously want to be playing matches and get on the team, but right now my main concern is just getting healthy.
Q. Will you just go rest now after this?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah.  I'm ready to go home.  I was up at 4:00.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT