RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 4, 2017
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Two weeks of bed rest coming into this and you said yesterday you were amazed how you were hitting the ball.  Can you believe you're three off the lead?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I've been hitting it really good the last two days and giving myself chances.  Today felt like a bit more on and off with the rain and the wind switching on and off.  Only made two bogeys the first two days, so it's been very solid so I'm very happy.   
 Q.  You said yesterday you were feeling exhausted after those 18 holes.  How do you feel today?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I think I got lucky that I got the morning and afternoon wave.  So I got a little bit of time to rest.  I was a little bit tired today, but I think it's a little cooler today and a little bit more rain.  But I'm happy I'm done and I'm excited for the weekend.   
 Q.  We have to wait until Sunday, but we would expect you to receive one of the four captain's picks from Annika on Sunday evening.  How will you prepare for the Solheim Cup knowing what you've been dealing with health-wise the last couple of weeks?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I'm going to take quite a bit of time off.  Usually I've spent a good four or five hours practise and just cut it short and work on my putting because that doesn't really get my heart rate up.  Just bed rest and so far I'm through 36 holes and I'm feeling fine.  Fingers crossed, one more week and I'll be ready.   
 Q.  A round of 70 in fairly difficult conditions.  Not many scoring well out there.  How do you reflect on that?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I've been hitting it really solid the last two days and haven't really got myself into trouble.  Only made one bogey; hit a good chip shot and good putt, just didn't go in.  Feel happy with my game.  Feel like it's coming along.  So just try to do my best out there and obviously I'm in good position for the weekend.   
 Q.  As it stands, three shots back, and what's more remarkable and you're carrying an illness at the moment.  Tell us about that.  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I've been sick for a couple weeks now, since the U.S. Open and been in bedrest almost 14 days leading into this event, but just trying to take it day-by-day.  I'm still tired after yesterday.  Had a nice sleep-in this morning, so I just want my rest now and hopefully I'm good to go for the weekend.   
 Q.  Maybe glandular fever is the perfect remedy to play well at these majors?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I don't know, I wouldn't recommend it and I wouldn't want anyone to feel the way I have in the last couple weeks but I feel like it's getting better.  I try not to push it too hard, but it's definitely hard, and I love to practise and work hard.  It's been a little bit of a different road going into this event and trying to be patient.  I'm sure things happen for a reason, too.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT