SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 31, 2017
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: Happy to be joined in the media center by two-time defending ShopRite LPGA Classic champion, Anna Nordqvist.  Anna, back-to-back winner here.  What you do like so much about this golf course?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I don't really know what is so special about this place, but I seem to be playing really well here over the last couple years.  I think it's definitely challenging with the wind.  A little softer conditions this year, so it's going to be playing a little bit different.
You're going to he have to hit good golf shots.  A lot of times with the greens being small and undulated you have to hit good iron shots, and I think that really fits my game.
THE MODERATOR: Speaking of your game, pretty solid year thus far.  You have a win under your belt already.  What's been the key to your success so far this season?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, this year I've kind of made a couple changes over the winter and made a couple changes recently.  It's been more about trusting myself.  I have a lot smaller team.  Right now I don't have a swing coach.  I don't work with a trainer anymore.  Just been a lot about trusting myself.
My 9th year on tour, so I feel like I know what works the best for me, so I've been trying to do my own thing.  Having Kyle on the bag about a year and a half now and I feel like we're a really good team.  So I feel like we're doing our on thing out there, and I feel like that's paying off.
THE MODERATOR: How difficult is that, to make that decision to do a lot more of that stuff on your own?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I always thought I needed a lot of people around me, so I kind of always did surround myself with a lot of great people over the years.  I've had opportunity to work with some amazing people over the years.  I've learned a lot.
I feel like it comes to a pint where it gets a little bit too much, and I experienced that around the Olympics where things got a little intense and I felt like I was looking for answers from someone else and looking for confirmation from someone other than myself.
I felt like I just needed to be in charge a little bit more.  I don't know how many people I worked with leading up to the Olympics, but I'm down to just a few now.  I have some mentors that I look for answers, but it's just been a lot about me and I feel like trusting myself.
You know, it's sometimes challenging, but at the end of the day I feel like that's what's working for me.
THE MODERATOR: We'll open up for questions.
Q. One win under your belt already this year.  How do you feel your form compares this week coming into this event?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I feel like my form has been really good.  Obviously winning in Phoenix was huge for me because that's where I went to school and still feel like home.
I haven't really had a good putting week since.  I feel like I've been striking the ball really well, but just haven't really got anything going as far as results or putting.  I was hitting it really well in Kingsmill just two weeks ago and couldn't really get anything going.
Same thing last week.
So I feel I'm just in a spot that I feel like I'm comfortable and confident in my game.  I feel like I'm in maybe a little bit better form this time of year.  Just more consistent than I was last year.  Last year this was a huge win for me and a huge confidence boost.
I feel like I'm on good track with my game.  We're just starting our busy time of the year, so feel like I'm in a good spot.
Q. Earlier today they announced that this tournament signed on for five additional years.  What does what mean, that they're willing to make such a commitment to this event and this area?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I'm always very excited to come back here.  I know how much this place means to us as players.  They do so much for the community here.  I've been able to watch a little bit more of the work behind the scenes participating in the media days the last two years.  I'm just blown away by how much work goes into it, but also how much the community and all the spectators are involved in this tournament.
It's obviously very exciting news.  I played with Kim from Acer this morning, and I know they support the tournament very well.  I think just very excited that this continues to be one of the longest stops we have had on tour.
Q. You said you made a change of the team.  Exactly how and what that change help your play?
ANNA NORDQVIST: So I used to have a lot of people around me.  I used to have a couple mental coaches, a trainer, swing coach.  My team used to be a lot bigger.  Now I'm just down to few people.
I feel what has helped me is I have to trust myself a little bit more.  I feel like if you always have someone there to tell you what you're doing wrong or what you're supposed to do, it's just an easy way out to ask for the answer.
Now I just have to trust my own ability and know that I know what works the best for me.  So I feel like that's the biggest difference.
Down the road, yes, I'm going to get a new swing coach.  Right now I've been very pleased with the way I'm hit ting it.  It's been fun messing around a little bit with it.
Q. Do you feel like you're tougher, stronger mentally and physically because of it?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I feel like I've always been pretty mentally tough.  The more you work on it or the more you start listening to other people, I feel like you're putting yourself in a position where you're more vulnerable and you kind of seek for answers from others rather than trusting yourself.
So I definitely feel like -- pretty much been since the Olympics where I made some chances.  In the fall, a lot of the hard work I did with those coaches that I had I felt like started to pay off and was falling into places when I had the time myself to kind of figure it out and kind of do my own thing.
It's been fun.  You know, like I feel very happy when there is a challenge in front of me and I know I have the tools and I know I can tackle it.  I think that's how I get strong and I get mentally tougher.  That's a lot of what I did growing up, is I didn't have that many people around me.  You just had to learn doing it my way.
A lot of people can tell you how you're going to win and make a putt, but at the end the day, you're on your own out there.
Q. Going for a third win in a row here; you clearly have a huge confidence level.  Did you like this course the very first time you saw it?  Just curious, does it remind you of any courses in Europe at all?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, this course is a little links style, and I did play a lot over in Great Britain when I grew up.  I had two wins, and I think in 2000, I believe 14, I was third and then I have a couple more top 10s.
Just seems to be a stop where I've been playing really well over the years.  I feel like usually it's very windy and you kind of have to see the shots, and some of the holes you have to aim ten yards right of the green for it to come back.  I think that's what's challenging about this course and what I like so much about it.
THE MODERATOR: Anything else for Anna?  All right, we appreciate the time.  Best of luck this week.
ANNA NORDQVIST: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT