HSBC WOMEN'S CHAMPIONS
March 2, 2017
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You were obviously pretty happy out there on the new layout.  What did you make of the new course?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I think it's a good course.  It's in fantastic shape.  It's a little bit of a bomber's paradise, so just tried to hit it hard.  Hit my irons really well today and happy to see some putts go in, too.   
 Q.  What do you think is the key to unlocking this golf course, par 3s, par 4s, par 5s?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, you get a little bit of everything out there.  The wind picked up on our back nine and it was really hard to judge the wind.  Felt like I hit a lot of good shots and just kind of seemed to go through the wind.  Ended up either missing the green or having a long lag putt.  Judging the wind obviously, the winds are pretty firm and seemed to get a little firmer as the day went on.  But when you have a chance, you've got to attack.   
 Q.  So what did you and your caddie learn during the practice rounds that helped you out there this afternoon?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, it was pouring the first six holes yesterday in the Pro-Am.  I was just pretty happy it wasn't raining today.  I feel refreshed after quite a bit of time off.  So happy to be back with Kyle.  This is our second year together.  I feel like we have a good game plan and didn't really have to start anything new this year.  Just very happy and just excited for the rest of the season.   
 Q.  How cool is this event, just quietly, in Singapore?  Have you had a chance to explore it at all yet?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: A little bit.  I'm obviously very excited about the food today.  I kept sending pictures to everyone at home.  I have a lot of food allergies, so last week was a bit of a struggle for me.  But Singapore is a great city.  They had music on the range this morning and we were all like loving it.   
Yeah, it's a great event, and I'm just very excited to be back.   
 Q.  5-under, but talk to us about the first six holes, you went out there and tore up the course?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I got off to a really good start.  I hit it close on 1 and then made a good par putt on 3 and I birdied 5,6 and 7.  Then got caught up a little bit on the downslope and tried to go for it and hit it in the hazard, so I made a great bogey on 8.  But yeah, a really good start.  I was hitting a lot of good shots just very excited to be back playing.   
 Q.  Going back to the eighth hole, that was a very unfortunate shot, what happened, but you bounced back really well?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I hit a really good shot there off the downslope.  Maybe I was a little bit optimistic.  It came out perfect, just came out low.  I thought it would be carrying.  Kicked all the way back into the hazard and ended up making a good up-and-down from the back bunker to make a bogey.   
So I knew I was hitting it well, so it was just a matter of keep going.   
 Q.  You saw a few good putts out there, as well.  You must be delighted with that.  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I felt good, hit a lot of good strokes out there last week and just didn't really figure out the speed.  So I worked a little extra on speed control this week, and you know, seemed to be reading them very well.  You know, once you start making a couple, putting just seems to be a little bit easier.   
 Q.  Very quickly, obviously there's no cut this week, but I was looking back at your results and you haven't missed a cut since July 2015.  Is that a stat you're proud of?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Definitely.  I think that the more consistent you can be, the better it is.  I had a great season last year and obviously not missing a cut, just says a lot about my game, and that even my worst rounds are pretty decent.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT