U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 7, 2016
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








ANNA NORDQVIST: I played well tee to green.  I think I hit every green today, which always helps.  Didn't really didn't hit any bad shot and get myself into trouble.  I was trying to figure out the green speed a little bit.  It seemed a little bit inconsistent and a little slower in the morning.  But really happy with the day.
Q. There's been a lot talk this week about this being an atypical U.S. Open course in that it's a little softer, plenty of driving area.  Are you finding that it has firmed up any today or is it going to require a low score all week to win this?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I knew in the morning it was going to be a little softer, so I tried to take advantage of that.  It did soften up a little bit in the back, but it just seemed to be a couple greens that it's a little firmer and faster.  But the rest of them, I mean, I can hit my putts pretty aggressive today, but I don't think I will be able to do that for the rest of the week, though.
Q. You have always been known as a ball striker and probably want to play a tougher golf course.  Will you be happier if it firms up?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Definitely.  You still got to hit a lot of good shots to manage your way around there.  I think there was some tougher pins today, some more accessible.  You can't win on a Thursday, but you can certainly shoot yourself out of it.  I'm looking forward to the challenge and I saw there's a really low one out there.
I just got to keep doing what I'm doing.  I'm sure the USGA has something in store for us.
Q. How does it feel when -- you were 28 when you won earlier this year, when you are the oldest winner this year on the Tour, how does that feel?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, winning always feels great.  I did get a lot of comments about options for retirement homes and stuff like that after winning.
But the level of talent out here is just unbelievable.  I'm just stunned with Lydia Ko and she's 19 and Brooke Henderson, she's 18 and they are No. 1 and No. 2 in the world.  I wasn't anywhere near that level of play at that age.  I just got to keep it up to keep up with the young ones.
Q. I know it's early.  It just Thursday.  But how much have you thought about another major?  How much has that been on your mind and the preparation that you do to play your best?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, there's so many factors that goes into winning a major and so many things you can't control.  You can have a great week and someone plays better.  That's just the way it is.
When I won in 2009, I really played as good as I could, ended up winning by four.  I just got to keep putting myself in contention and you need a little bit of luck and couple putts to go your way.  But it's definitely a dream of mine.  That's why I'm still out here and still pushing myself week in and week out.  Because if it wouldn't be for these things, I wouldn't push myself as hard as I am.
Q. Having won already this year and just getting yourself in contention, where is your game at compared to where you felt it was at the best ever?
ANNA NORDQVIST: It's just hard to say what's your best.  I had a really good year in 2014.  I had some great weeks last year.  I felt like I've been playing pretty good all spring.  You just couldn't make my putts, couldn't get any results going.  I didn't feel like my game was that far away.  My results were I finished in the 30s and 40s.  So results-wise, it wasn't that great.  I feel like all year it's been very solid.  That's one of my main keys, being consistent.
Winning in ShopRite certainly helped my confidence and I knew it was just around the corner before I would have a good week.  So that certainly helped.  Been playing pretty good since.
I was just back in Sweden two weeks ago and didn't touch a club for eight days leading into Portland.  I was a little rusty last week, but I feel like I worked hard with my coach, Jorge Parada, last week and I feel like my game is in really good shape..






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT