NW ARKANSAS CHAMPIONSHIP
August 30, 2020
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Not the result you were hoping for of course, but a lot of positives to take from this week.  What did you learn?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, I played great this week.  Just felt like it wasn't really meant to be.  On the back nine hit a lot of good putts; they just didn't go in.  Two bad drives that kind of killed me a little bit.
Overall, I mean, I had a chance there on the last, I guess.
Q. That was a heck of a shot.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.  I heard she birdied and I knew I was two behind going into 16 because there has not been any leaderboards, so I had no idea where I was standing.
So just a lot of positives this week.  Felt like I did a lot of good things today, too.  Just wasn't meant to be.
Q. And how good does it feel rounding into form leading up to ANA in a few weeks?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, it's good.  The last couple weeks been a little bit of a struggle, so I'm glad things are moving in the right direction.
Q. What club did you hit on the third shot that came so close?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I had 91 yards, so I hit a little 54.  It probably flew a little bit longer than expected, but I was trying to carry it a few by.
You know, I hit a good shot there.  Missed the putt, but I guess it didn't really matter at the end of the day of the day.
Q. Looked like it was going to go in.  Just a heck of a shot.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.
Q. Talk about all three days and kind of playing under COVID-19 conditions and how different that is with no leaderboard, anything like that?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I mean, I was a little bit surprised there wasn't any leaderboards.  Like the other events we been playing there has been some kind of leaderboards out there.
I mean, it's nice that there are so many houses around.  I felt like it was quite a few people watching us.  It got really slow there on the back nine basically waiting every shot, and I think that kind of threw me off a little bit.
It was nice turnout, and, yeah, overall it's been -- this is a great stop and everyone loves coming here.
Q. What do you do moving forward from here?  Take a week off?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.  Going back home tomorrow and work on a few things and then be back for ANA.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT