SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 3, 2016
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You had four consecutive birdies to end your front nine, and four to end the back nine.  What was working so well out there?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Well, I didn't get off to the best start, but then on 16, I hit it to about a foot and a half.  Both 17 and 18, I had birdie putts from I think six feet.
Hit a good one wedge shot to another foot on 1, so that was a good stretch.  From there on, I seemed to hit really good shots.  Made a good 3-footer on 6 and a little longer putt on 7 and 8 I didn't expect and then a good 3-footer on the last.
Just very happy to be back and hit a lot of good putts today and then definitely a lot of good iron shots.
Q. What was the problem early on?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I think I had a 10-footer on the first I didn't make and then just hit it over the green on 11 and chipped it to five feet.  Just didn't get the read right.  Missed the drive a little right on 12 and hit a good one wedge shot from the bunker, but just over the green, and that's not a place you want to be, so I ended up making bogey there.
Q. At that point do you have to regroup or gather yourself?  What got you out of that funk?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I think it was just a little rust.  It was early in the morning; I'm not a morning person.  But 11 and 12, they weren't really bad shots, but they just ended up in places you really couldn't want to be.
I just kept my head high and started giving myself better chances.
Q. What is it about this place?  Did you know the first time you showed up that this was going to be a course for you? What is it about this place?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I don't know.  I mean, it's been a great week and I seem to have a lot of support here and a lot of people have been cheering me on.  It's great to see.  I don't think I've ever seen a crowd this big, especially not on a Friday here.
I think it's a ball-striker's course.  Greens tend to get a little bumpy.  It's poa, so you just have to give yourself a lot of chances.  Iron play has been one of my strengths and today I hit them close, and that's how you're going to make birdies out here.
Q. Do you get around a lot at night here or do you stay in?  What's your game plan like?  Do you enjoy the area after?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I have a couple friends who are living there, so we are going to go to dinner tonight.  Went to the Pro-Am party in Atlantic City the other day.  It's just a lot of fun events going on around here and everyone pretty much stays on site, you know, just kind of hang out.  It's a fun week.
ANNA NORDQVIST: I seem to like this place.  Had a week off last week, went back to Sweden for a couple days.  Didn't practice much.  But I went down to see the kids, between 12 and 18 years, got a lot of inspiration from them.  I think even though I haven't practiced much coming into this week, but coming here, I have great memories from the past and hit my irons really well today.  I'm stuffing them really close and I think seven of my birdies were inside six or seven feet.  So great day.
Q. That was the first time since you've been back since Christmas.  Did the girls say they were going to be watching you this week?
ANNA NORDQVIST: They were pretty shocked that I showed up.  No one knew I was coming back.  They were pretty shocked, they know I'm in the U.S.  I'm just glad I could go and I was hoping to give them a little bit of inspiration, but I think a got a lot of inspiration from them.  Hopefully we'll be watching.  They will probably be out practicing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT