SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
June 1, 2016
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's it like to come back as defending champion?  Do you get a lot of recognition from fans, thing like that?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, it's always great to be back.  Obviously I have a lot of great memories from last year.  I've been playing pretty good here over the years, so it's just one of those places where I really enjoy coming back.  I like the New Jersey crowd, and it seems to have a lot of things in play for me this week.
Q. What's it take to play well here?  I know you've got the small greens here, kind of a links style course that the LPGA doesn't see that often.  What's it take to play well here at ShopRite?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Like you said, it's really small greens, and it's a little bit of false fronts on them, so you really have to sometimes just hit it in the middle of the greens.  It's poa greens, so they're going to be bumpy.  It's just early in the year here.  You have to give yourself a lot of chances, and you're not going to make a ton of putts.  Playing smart, staying out of the rough, which is pretty thick this year.  It's a little softer than in the past, but I think it's actually going to make it play a little tougher.  You're not going to get as much roll in the fairways.
Q. What would you say is the state of your game coming in this week?
ANNA NORDQVIST: I think my game has been really solid all year.  I didn't really make a lot of putts this first half of the year, but I had a great turnaround in Kingsmill a couple weeks ago and had last week off, so I'm excited, and I feel like my game is right there where I need it to be.
Q. And I understand last week you were back in Sweden doing some junior clinics.  Just tell us a little bit about that.  How long were you there for?  What were you doing?  How many people did you have out learning the game?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, so I haven't been back in Sweden since Christmas, so it's been quite a while.  I decided last year that they always have a kids' camp every year, so they invite every girl playing golf in Sweden from 12 to 18, so they managed to make it so I was able to go back.  I took last week off.  So I flew back on Wednesday afternoon, landed Thursday morning, had a lot of media interviews in Stockholm, then Friday was home with the family, and then Saturday I drove down two hours, and it was 90 girls from 12 to 18.  I was hoping I could inspire them in some way, and was in their shoes maybe 12 years ago.  But I've still been there and I know how much it means, so I was happy I could do it for two days.  I flew back early Monday morning.  I'm happy I did it, and I know a lot of girls are going to be coming back.
Q. Could you picture yourself at a similar age when you were that age and had taken up the game?
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, definitely.  I started when I was 13, and it was just around that age that you need a little bit of guidance, need a little bit of inspiration, and just meeting other girls playing golf.  I was one of few girls on my golf course growing up, so I know how much those camps meant to me, just meeting other girls, getting inspired, and having a lot of fun, and I think they all left with a great impression that week.
Q. You're the top-ranked player from your country right now.  Do you kind of feel a sense of responsibility to go back there and sort of spread the game?  Obviously it must have been a big deal for those girls to meet a professional athlete.
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, definitely.  I know how much it meant having role models growing up, and I try to be one.  I am in the U.S. most times out of the year, but I can go back and I can give back in any way, I'm happy to do so.  I've been the top-ranked Swede for a couple years now, and I think it is important that I -- it just kind of comes with the role to give back and kind of influence them, and if I can help in any way, I'll be happy to do so.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT