SOLHEIM CUP
September 20, 2015
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  It was a massive point in the scheme of things.  It's not going too well, but you had to win that match?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, I just tried to get my point today.  I was looking a little bit at the end and saw there was a lot of red up there.  So I knew I had to fight until the end.   
 Q.  It's not looking brilliant at the moment, Pettersen has to come up trumps.  The earlier incident, will that affect the outcome, do you think?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: No, whatever happened, happened.  It's just we talked about it earlier in the week.  You have to be really clear when you concede a putt and before you pick it up.  Everyone knows the rules, unfortunately.  But everyone just went out there today and tried to get the point.   
Sophie Gustafson had a really nice speech yesterday.  She says she doesn't do that often.  She got very emotional.  She did a very good job.  And she told everyone to fight.  And that's what I tried to do today.   
 Q.  Congratulations on winning another point for Europe.  What was it like taking the final putt out there?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: It was awesome.  I knew I had to fight today and I knew every point was a point for Europe.  I knew it was going to be a tough match.  I played really good.  I putted really well.  And I fought.  And I'm proud of the way I hit my 7-iron on 16 to within a foot and a 9-iron on the last.   
 Q.  Now Europe only needs half a point to win it, do you think Europe can win it?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I'm keeping my fingers crossed.   
 Q.  Finally, what do you think about what happened earlier on the 17th?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: Yeah, it was an unfortunate situation.  We did have a rules meeting in the beginning of the week, where it was stating that we need to be really clear when we give a putt and when we don't.  It was pretty obvious looking at the replay that it wasn't being given and that she just picked it up.  Unfortunately, it's what happens.  It's part of the game and you have to move on and keep fighting.   
 Q.  Your best memory of the week here at Solheim Cup?  
ANNA NORDQVIST: I think it was on 18 yesterday with Suzann, when Suzann Pettersen made that putt to win the match.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT