SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 29, 2015
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Happy with your round today?   Feeling pretty good?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.   I'm very happy with the way I played today.   Very solid, and you just try to control the ball flight in the wind.   It was totally opposite wind from the beginning of the week, but it made all par‑5s reachable today.   I'm happy.   Five birdies, I think, no bogeys, so it was very consistent.

Q.   Pretty big to birdie the last two?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean I was kind of in between whether to hit a 4‑iron or hit a hybrid.   I had 208 from the 227 pin, but I went for the 4‑iron.   You just can't hit it long.   So I just got it up on the green.
Kind of hard to judge on the speed there, but it was a great four‑footer coming down the hill.

Q.   Haven't missed a cut this year, four Top 10s.   Feeling pretty good about the year or wanting a little more?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.   I was home last week in Orlando, and you know, seeing my team and just really kind of running and getting ready for a busy summer. 
But I feel like my game is right there, just getting a little bit of momentum.   And hopefully I can get on top soon.

Q.   What are you working on with your team right now?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I think we have a great plan.   Been working a lot on endurance, just having my energy and not being at the coming Sunday I still have energy, so I'm still ready to compete.
Just trying to keep it simple and my swing, trying to keep it very consistent.   And you know, just try to control the ball flight, and I think that really helped me today.

Q.   Is it interesting for you to see Morgan?   She was struggling very much at the start of the year and all of a sudden it seems like the last two months every week she's in contention. 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.   Morgan is a very good player.   Her short game is amazing, and she's a very feisty player.   Once she gets hot, she gets really hot and when she gets a little bit of confidence, I think she is riding some confidence.   And you know, she's been playing great, and she keeps putting herself out there.   So I'm not surprised to see her up there, and I think she's going to continue with the solid play, so she's going to be tough to beat.

Q.   She talked about how quickly golf can come and go, good golf can come and go.   Is that something you see, and do you kind of work harder knowing this summer how big the next three of eight events are majors, kind of the time to play well?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   You know, unfortunately, it's hard to pick your golf game.   There are so many things that goes into your golf game.   You gotta be in a good place mentally on and off the course.   You gotta be happy; you gotta enjoy what you are doing.   And it can be a tough game on you for sure, but when it has its highs, it can be the best game ever, too. 
So I think, you know, you just gotta find what works for you and, you know, find a way to be happy on and off the course, and golf seems a lot easier then.

Q.   You gotta be even more pleased with the 4‑under today with it only being a three‑day event. 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.   I like this place.   Seems like I've done well here over the years.   It's definitely a challenge.   You know, you‑‑ pretty small greens and I'm happy I hit a lot of them today. 
But definitely, I mean knowing that it's a three‑day event, you really gotta come off the blocks.

Q.   Solheim coming up this year.   Americans are preaching the underdog theme.   Are you buying it?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   No.   I still say the U.S. team is going to be the favorites.   I think Europe's always kind of had the underdog role coming into Solheim.   The U.S. players have been playing so well this year, too, and I think they're very keen with having Juli Inkster as a leader and Wendy Ward and Pat Hurst.   So they're going to be very hard to beat this year.   So I'm very confident in my team, and I think Carin and the rest of the Swedes will do a good job.   But you know, it's always a big goal of mine, and I obviously a part of my career knowing that my biggest moments all come from the Solheim Cup.

Q.   I was going to say, you gotta be pretty pleased about this week's contingent leading; all three vice captains and the captain are all Swedish. 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, absolutely.   Having Annika's experience.   Carin, I think she's a great character and she's very positive.   And I know they all work very hard, and I'm Swedish.   I'm obviously very excited.   But I think it's going to be a fun one in Germany.   I expect a lot of people to be there, and hopefully there will be a lot of Europeans.

Q.   Maria said that Carin wanted her because she was still playing out here.   That was one of the big factors; she wanted a vice captain who was still out here and was with you on a daily basis.   Do you think that's important?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, definitely.   I think Carin, you know, she's very busy being in Germany and preparing back in Europe.   So I think it's good for her to have Mimi since she still plays on tour, she knows a lot of the girls and she can kind of watch and see what's going on every week, and I think Carin putts a lot of trust in her, and I think that's why she picked her. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT