SHOPRITE LPGA CLASSIC PRESENTED BY ACER
May 30, 2015
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   I'd like to welcome in Anna Nordqvist into the media center, one shot off the lead.   You've been playing very solid.   Just even recently you're coming off a T11 finish at Kingsmill.   Talk about the state of your game right now.   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I feel very happy with my game today and the way I've been hitting it for the last couple weeks.   It was very windy out there this afternoon, and I just tried to stay tough.   I felt like I hit a lot of good shots, wasn't even close to the pin, and I felt like I hit a lot of good putts that didn't go in.   But I fought it out and finished with three birdies to give myself a shot tomorrow.  
THE MODERATOR:   How much momentum does that take into Sunday, and this being a three‑day event how important was it to get two solid rounds under your belt.  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Well, I knew it was going to be a tough one because I saw the wind was going to pick up this afternoon, and it sure did.   You know, I tried to give myself chances for birdies or play for pars on some holes, but knowing it's a three‑day event, you're really going to have to try to shoot low scores every day.   I tried to stay patient, and I think it paid off with three birdies there at the end.   
THE MODERATOR:   I just met your mom, and you had a week off.   How nice has it been to have her with you the past couple weeks and here with you this week?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, my mom is a huge supporter of mine, and I can't thank her enough for coming out to support me.   It's just nice to have some family around.   I certainly miss home a lot, and a lot of my family and friends, they're all back home in Sweden.   
It's tough, but I try to make the best out of it, and having my mom here certainly helps.   
   
 Q.   What will be your outlook, your thoughts going into tomorrow, a shot back?   Just what will be your approach tomorrow?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Well, there's a lot of players up there, so you're going to have to shoot another good day, another good round.   Tomorrow will probably be a little bit more similar conditions for everyone up there at the top, but I'm excited.   Any time you're going into Sunday you have a chance to win.   I feel like I'm in a good spot, and yeah, I have to go out there and be aggressive, and you can't really relax on this golf course because once you do, it's going to eat you up alive.   
   
 Q.   Anna, with the wind and the greens being a little bumpy, what was it like to stay patient, especially that late surge of yours with three birdies?   How did you pull that one out because I guess it was getting pretty tough out there.   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I'm sure you guys heard about the greens, and it is what it is.   All you can do is try to hit good putts.   I felt like I hit a lot of good putts today, and it wasn't even close to the hole or they just bumped off line.   I felt like I hit a good putt on 12, it was probably a three‑footer, barely even hit the hole because it just bounced.   I felt like I hit a good putt on 14, but it just bounces, too.   All you can do is try to stay patient and hopefully one bounces in, too.   
   
 Q.   Talk about your three birdie putts.   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I hit it to five feet on 16, and I think I hit it to six feet on 17, and then 18 I think was a 10‑footer.   
THE MODERATOR:   You've had four top 10s this season.   You've been there, been in contention.   You pride yourself on consistency.   What do you think it's been, either on the weekends or Sundays that's been holding you back that you want to overcome tomorrow?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I feel like this year I've been playing solid, just haven't really put four solid rounds together.   Been up there a few times.   I felt like I had a good chance at ANA this year, but you've really got to shoot four good rounds, or this week you've got to shoot three good rounds, and I think that's the missing part.   I'm definitely working on consistency and giving myself chances to be up there, and I'm very proud of myself for battling it out this week and certainly gives me a chance for tomorrow.  
THE MODERATOR:   Taking a look at the list of past winners of this event, it's some pretty established Hall‑of‑Famers, and they always say the cream rises to the top at this event.   What would it mean to you to win here and put your name on that list?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Well, I feel like this is one of my favorite places.   It's such a good golf course, and it's such a great tournament with a lot of history.   It's been a lot of great winners over the years.   It would mean a lot.   Just trying to take a day at a time, and I'm one shot back going into tomorrow.   That's all I'm trying to focus on right now.  
   
 Q.   Do you prefer one shot back or one shot ahead?   Is this the position you want to be in?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, any time you're close to the top and have a chance, it really doesn't matter.   
   
 Q.   I watched you hit your two putts on 10.   The pin was tucked in very close to the front.   You went back, you clearly had a lot of wind pushing you back, and you made a really good second putt from what appeared to be about nine feet.   You seemed to come up pretty short the first time.   Could you go over that?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, 10 played pretty hard downwind.   I think I hit my hybrid about 240, 250 off the tee, and then I think I had 92 yards to the pin, and I was hitting my 58‑degree wedge, and what I felt like was a good shot carried the pin and went about, what, 40 feet from the hole with absolutely no spin, just kind of knuckled there in the wind.   I knew the first part was going to be slow, didn't quite hit it, so I think it came up maybe seven or eight feet short.   But I tried to put a good stroke on the second putt, and I did, and luckily it stayed on the line, and it went in.   
THE MODERATOR:   Great job so far.   Good luck tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT