JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2015
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   It was a good final round, 8‑under par, but was it day you thought you left a couple out there or was it a great day overall?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   No, it was a good day.   I've been playing pretty solid all week.   Just haven't got anything to go really.   Second round I hit the ball really good.   Shot 5‑under and didn't really make anything outside of four feet, five feet.   So feel like I've been playing pretty good, so I'm just very happy to get a couple birdies out there today.  
   
 Q.   You head into next week as defending champion and last year you had one win under your belt by the time you got there.   What is it about the early season that brings out your best?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I've been working very hard this off‑season and that's what I did last year, too.   I haven't really got my putting going until today, so I'm very pleased with that.   But I starting out good and you come fresh, and been working a lot on different stuff during the off‑season.   So I feel fresh and I feel excited to play again.  
   
 Q.   Only time will tell what it means; you plan on hanging around for a while?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   No, I'm about to go see my friends and then head over to San Diego.   
   
 Q.   Well, your phone might be ringing, you never know?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Who knows.  
   
 Q.   What happened on 17, came up short?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, it was just enough, like a bit of a wind that caught‑‑ I was surprised it came up that short.   Hit a good first putt and ran away a little bit and hit a good second putt but had a wrong read.   Just enough wind to affect it and didn't really hit the right shot at the right time.  
   
 Q.   On 15, we picked you up at the green, and your ball is on the other side of the flag.   Did it come close to going in?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I don't know, I was on the right side in the rough so I think it carried short of green, so I don't know.   
   
 Q.   A little tricky turning back into the wind on these last few holes?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I hit a great shot on 16.   I just kind of spun so left myself a 10‑footer uphill.   Hit what I thought was a decent shot on 17 but just got caught up in the wind there.  
And then 18, they moved the tee up but it's a really tricky pin.   I'm pleased with the way I played and I'm excited for the next couple tournaments.  
   
 Q.   It's a new pin on 18, I don't think I've seen that one on Sunday here before?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   There's been some pins this week that we haven't seen before and I think that's exciting, because it makes it a little tougher, and I think the LPGA is trying to do a better job of trying to use different pins from different years, which makes it more fun for us.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT