PORTLAND CLASSIC PRESENTED BY CAMBIA HEALTH SOLUTIONS
August 28, 2014
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   So very nice round.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Thank you.

Q.   You're coming in on a roll.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Uh‑huh.

Q.   How good did you feel coming into this week, and it's the fourth straight week?   Felt good?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean I hit the ball really well the last two weeks, just haven't really been able to make a lot of putts.   There were highlights last week where I hit the ball better than I have all year.   Just couldn't seem to make any putts. 
Today felt off with some shots, but you know, really battled and made a couple of good putts just to stay in it.   So I'm very happy and proud of myself for just staying patient and letting the hard work pay off.

Q.   Any changes to the putter?   Any just keeping things the same?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   No.   I mean I've been rolling the putts very well.   They just haven't been able to go in, and you know, last week I hit a lot of lips and framed a lot of edges.   It just comes to the point where I think you gotta stay patient, and that's what I felt like I had that attitude, I had it coming into this week, because it got to me a little bit last week, and I have to pay for that, pay back for that. 
So overall, you know, you just gotta keep your best foot forward every day and just try to keep doing what I'm doing and hopefully it will pay off.

Q.   Have you gotten a lot better with just dealing with the lip‑outs and things like that just knowing that they'll fall, working on your patience?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.   I think at times, you know, I can emotional up‑and‑down, but working very hard on the mental side helped me stay in a good positive state of mind.   I had a really good putt on 17 that didn't go in.   I just didn't really let that affect me.   I hit a good putt, just didn't go in. 
It's definitely helped me to stay positive.

Q.   Have you felt in this stretch, Justine this whole season, have things been almost sort of automatic for you in terms of ball striking and just your game, that things aren't going to fall out of place?   Do you think things are just sticking well together?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.   It's been a really long year, and I felt like I'm working very hard, and for me it's just a lot about managing my energy and managing my time.   I'm probably one of the more hard‑working people, players.   And I tend to want to practice a lot.

Q.   Over do it.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   But I know what I should do during my practice, so it's just a matter of sticking to the plan. 
Felt I was a little off after Arkansas and the British Open, but then the last two weeks have been really good for me.

Q.   Regrouped.   Most consistent you've felt in your career do you think at this point just because you've been having Top 10, Top 10, runner up, third with your wins?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I'd say the last three years have been very consistent.   I think in 2012 I had 12 Top 10s or, you know, even‑‑ I would say the last three years has been very consistent inside of top 15.   So you know, I'm very happy where my game's at, so it's just a matter of staying patient and‑‑

Q.   Keep it going.   You're somewhat long and accurate both off the tee.   Do you think that suits well for this course?   There's a lot of narrow tee shots.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.   You definitely have to place yourself in good spots off the tee.   Greens are firming up, and it's a big advantage hitting off the fairways trying to control the distance coming into the pins. 
But it's a fun course. 

Q.   Everybody likes it.   Eagle on 7.   Run us through that.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I hit a good drive.   It was quite a bit into the wind.   I had a 3‑wood into the green, just came up short and made, I don't know, a 40‑footer. 

Q.   Okay.   40‑footer right off the green.   You were right on the edge.
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.

Q.   Stamina wise, fourth week in a row, have you done that many times in your career or were you kind of nervous about, oh, fourth week in a row or were you like I feel good, let's do it? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Last year I did a stretch with five weeks in a row starting with Solheim, ending with Evian, and it was probably not a very good decision.   So I promised myself I wasn't going to do five in a row.

Q.   But you can handle four?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.   So you know, I didn't want to miss Michigan tournament.   I didn't want to miss this tournament here in Portland because I have very good memories from here. 
So you know, for me I've just had a lot of fun these last couple weeks.   It's been great tournaments, and it's hard to say no. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT