THE EVIAN CHAMPIONSHIP
September 12, 2014
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   4‑under, 68.   Many congratulations.   A great way to finish here on the 18th.   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, thank you.   I finished with two birdies.   I'm obviously very happy to finish on a strong note.  
   
 Q.   What changed on the back nine from the 14th onwards?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Well, I hit it really good yesterday.   Kept missing putts.   It was kind of the same theme today.   Missed a five‑ or six‑footer for birdie on 13 and got a little bit pissed off.   
Tried to keep my head in it and then I hit it within two feet the next two holes; had a good chance on 16; then made two good putts 17, 18.  
   
 Q.   How did you find the conditions?   By the end of your round perfect golf conditions for golf.   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, it was very tough this morning.   Very cold.   Ball didn't seem to fly anywhere.   I felt like you hit a lot of good shots but the wind was effecting them.   
   
 Q.   Your last major was 2009.   Do you feel ready to win a second?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.   All I can do is put myself in a position to win.   I finished fourth in the last major.   You know, I feel pretty good about my game and pretty solid.  
I look forward to this weekend, and I'm happy about the score today.   
   
 Q.   You tied for 44 here at the Evian Championship 12 months ago here.   What changed?   Last year was a bit of an anomaly given the conditions were so wet.   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, last year I was exhausted.   That was my fifth week in a row starting with Solheim Cup.   Didn't have any energy.   Didn't finish very well the last day.  
Overall just had no energy.   I took last week off, and hopefully have a little bit more energy this week.   
   
 Q.   You've had such a great year so far, and now putting yourself in contention in a major.   What would it mean for you to have a major title to add to everything else that's happened this year?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   It would mean a lot.   It's obviously the tournament that I would like to win.   There are so many things you can't control.   I certainly can't control if anybody else is playing better.   10‑under yesterday from the Korean girl was quite impressive out there.   
I'm happy in the position I'm in.  
   
 Q.   The course overall, how is it playing?   What are the keys to shoot rounds like this and continue into the weekend?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I been hitting my irons really well.   I think yesterday I hit five lips.   Today I hit a lot of good putts just haven't been able to make them.  
   
 Q.   Getting to know these greens because they're so different now than they were before, does it take some time?  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.   I feel like I've hit a lot of good putts, and sometimes just a little bit off in my reads.   Sometimes you feel like it's going to pull a little bit towards the water and sometimes it does and sometimes it doesn't.   Still trying to figure it out.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT