INTERNATIONAL CROWN
July 26, 2014
Caroline Hedwall
Pernilla Lindberg
Anna Nordqvist
Mikaela Parmlid
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KRAIG KANN:   Thank you for being here.   Got Team Sweden here in the press room.   After, I would say, a pretty terrific day overall.   Mikaela Parmlid down to the far left, we have got Pernilla Lindberg, Anna Nordqvist, and Caroline Hedwall.   Let's start with those down on the far end about their match, a 7 & 5 victory.   All part of a day that clinches you a spot in Sunday's singles.   
Mikaela, I'm going to start with you.   Tell us a little bit about the day and how it all went your way.   
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Pernilla made an amazing putt on No. 1, and that kind of started us off.   So then I birdied 2 and 3, so we were 3‑up after three holes.   
And Pernilla, walking down the first fairway, she goes, Okay, now it's our turn.   Let's keep this going and hammer them down from the very start.   
So we played such great golf yesterday and so we knew we had it in us and we just kept going.   So it was really fun.   
KRAIG KANN:   Pernilla, you did have a fantastic day today.   Let's get your thoughts on that, and then I would like to go bigger picture with you on kind of the ebbs and flows of the three days in this format and wondering if you're in good shape and maybe you're not in great shape and now you're in really good shape.   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, what was the first part of that?   
KRAIG KANN:   First part is, to just talk about what you did to be part of a 7 & 5 win.   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   Yeah, we played so well yesterday.   Obviously, we didn't walk away with a point.   So we just kept saying we couldn't be too upset with ourselves.   We shot 9‑under together in the best ball yesterday.   So we knew we had great golf in us.  
We went out today and just kept going at that pace from the first hole.   We just never really let Lindsey and Katherine into the match.   When we got to 1‑up, we wanted to get to 2.   When we were 2, we wanted to get to 3.   That's kind of how we kept going all day.   
The next part of the question, over the last three days, obviously, Mikaela and me as a team, we started off a little slow on Thursday.   We just didn't really get it going.   Then it's funny with match play, I think when you play against really good players and they play well, they bring the best out of you, too.   
So Yeon and I.K. played just a little bit better than us yesterday, but they kept pushing us.   So that really got us going and then we kept going at that pace today.   
KRAIG KANN:   Anna and Caroline, a victory for you as well today, 4 & 3.   Those are two pretty decisive victories for Team Sweden.   What went on last night, Anna?   What did you guys talk about?   Was there anything said specific motivation or a game plan of any kind?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   No, we didn't really say much last night.   I was very proud how Mikaela and Pernilla played hard yesterday.   The Koreans put on a good show and they did, too.   They ended up losing on the 18th green.   So it was just a matter of them keeping the momentum.   
When I saw they were 3‑up after three holes, I knew we were all right.   
KRAIG KANN:   Your thoughts, Caroline, on the competition thus far and how you played.   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I think both Anna and I played really well together.   It's been a good four‑ball matches.   Just the first day we just couldn't make any putts, so that made the difference yesterday.   Then also today, we made a lot of birdies.   
KRAIG KANN:   Get some questions.   
   
 Q.   Mikaela, a hundred days ago you were, in essence, out of the game.   Now you've put together two or perhaps the most impressive performances of this inaugural event.   How does that make you feel and does it make you rethink your decision earlier to retire?   
MIKAELA PARMLID:   Yes, it makes me question things.   Yeah, it sure does, because it's really about motivation and the joy and balance in life.   Yeah, it makes me question things.   So maybe we'll see.   I'm not retired yet.   
(Laughter.)  
KRAIG KANN:   At least for one more day.   
(Laughter.)  
Let's talk about tomorrow specifically.   When the week began, you didn't know if you would have that chance, necessarily, to get to Sunday.   Everybody wanted to be amongst the five teams, but you're there.   Anna, could you share some thoughts on this team and how you feel and how you felt over the three days of competition to get to that point.   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Well, I'm really impressed with the way this International Crown has been hosted.   It's hard going into it, knowing it's the first one.   I know it will get compared to the Solheim Cup.   
But it's been three really fun days and we have had a lot of fun as a team.   It's just a fun format.   We're obviously very happy to make it to tomorrow.   I believe in all of us and kind of talked a little bit about who is going to play what country.   
But there's going to be four tough matches out there tomorrow, and all of us, we're just going to try to get as many points for Sweden as possible.   
But I really believe in this team and I'm very fortunate to be part of it.   
   
 Q.   Now that you guys have advanced to Sunday, it's a good time for you to be able to reflect on the event as a whole.   Happy with it?   Anything you would change?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   Well, I think it's been fun.   It's a fun format.   We'll just see tomorrow how it's going to be done.   It's a team event and we'll just see how it is to play in singles.   
I guess we're going to be pretty spread out tomorrow, so we'll see how that is.   So far I think, it's been a lot of fun and an exciting format.   
KRAIG KANN:   Pernilla, this is probably one of the biggest stages you've ever been able to be a part of.   You don't have that comparison to a Solheim Cup.   What's your perspective on this event?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I think that everyone kind of came in with an open mind, because it was the first, it is the first International Crown event.   But everything has been over like my expectations.   We have been so well looked after.   The format has turned out to be very exciting.   Everyone is right there in the mix going into tomorrow.   It looks like we're going to have a very exciting playoff.   
I mean, it kind of keeps building on the great LPGA season we have had.   All the drama that we have had all year, it's just been so good for women's golf.   I really hope that that's what people back home in front of the TV set have seen this week, too.  
   
 Q.   Caroline, the fact that you haven't lost a match since the Clinton administration, do you think that somehow intimidates people and does it give you an edge before you ever tee off?   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I don't know.   I mean, maybe, yeah, because if I had played someone that hadn't lost a match for a long time, yeah, I would be a little intimidated.   
But at the same time, I mean, it kind of puts a lot of pressure on me, too, because people just expect me to win all the time now.   
I love match play.   I love match play when I'm winning.   I hate it more than anything when I'm losing.   So that kind of helps me to just really dig deep even if I'm down in a match.   So, I don't know.   I mean, I'm just trying to keep going.   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   She's not planning to lose any time soon either.  
KRAIG KANN:   I'm going to make a first tee observation.   Having been there up close to all eight of the countries and the players over the last three days, the music's playing.   There are a lot of people cheering.   There's a pretty exciting atmosphere.   
Your team, to me, is the most interesting to watch walk onto the first tee and conduct themselves over the 10 minutes that you're there before you tee off.   The two players on that side, you seem to be very loose and very fun and smiles all around and just so glad to be a part of it.   And trying to get a smile or anything out of you two, you are all business, all the time.  
ANNA NORDQVIST:   We're competitors.  
KRAIG KANN:   It's completely different compared to the other team.   So I want to get your thoughts on that and I want it hear what you have to say.   Then I want to hear what you all have to say before I let you go.   
Go ahead, Caroline.   
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I think it's just Anna, and I, we are probably, we're just so focused on what we want to do.   So I hear the music, but I focus on what my task is.   Yeah, I think I smiled a little bit walking up.  
KRAIG KANN:   Okay.   Anna?   
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I hate to lose so bad.   So once I come up on the first tee, it's go time.   So I think we do have a lot of fun and I do think we smile, but we're focused and maybe that will intimidate our playing partners on the first tee, too.  
KRAIG KANN:   Pernilla, am I correct in my assessment of this team?   
PERNILLA LINDBERG:   I think so.   And there are different ways to play golf and win matches.   They have their way, we have our way.   
No, but I love the music on the first tee.   It's just made me feel really relaxed.   I've had a hard time standing still to the music.   I've been humming along.   It's just made me feel really relaxed and I just managed to put a nice swing on on that first tee shot every day, just because I am so nice and relaxed.   That's the way I want to be when I tee off.   
MIKAELA PARMLID:   I'm just here to enjoy it.   When I enjoy it the most, I play the best golf.   And what's not to enjoy?   I mean, that's really my view on things right now.   Having kids at home and things, I'm blessed to be here competing at this level and making all these putts and having so much fun.   So I'm enjoying it.  
KRAIG KANN:   Well, congratulations to each and every one of you.   If you like the music, you'll probably enjoy tomorrow quite well as well.   Hopefully we'll be able to say hello on the first tee, Anna and Caroline.  
CAROLINE HEDWALL:   I'll bring my smile tomorrow.   
KRAIG KANN:   Thank you all for being a part of it.   Team Sweden.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT