KIA CLASSIC
March 30, 2014
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Fantastic tournament again this week.   I know it's been well documented that you were a bit fed up with your game at the end of last year.   Two wins this year.   What turned it around for you? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I think just having positive people around me.   That's been really helping me keep me in a good mood and pushing me when I wanted to give up.
But I been working extremely hard this off‑season, so I can't believe it.   I'm still almost shaking right now standing here with another win.

Q.   You've had a change of coach.   What kind of things have you been working on?   Has he been a positive influence? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I've been working with Jorge Parada since the end of January.   We started a little bit on short game.   He's a really positive person and really motivated me in practice. 
Been working a little bit on lagging a little bit different in the swing, and I feel like I can go after it a little bit more without hitting them left. 

Q.   Going into the Kraft next week, what does this win do for your confidence for that?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I mean, makes me believe a lot more in myself.   I love Palm Springs.   My caddie is from there, so I know he loves it there, too.   I couldn't come to the first major of the year in a better position. 

Q.   What's it feel like, the importance of getting this thing?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Well, I was two shots behind and really had nothing to lose today.   Didn't feel very good this morning.
But I wanted to at least give myself a chance.   Made a good par putt on 7 to ‑‑ or on 6 to keep me in it.   Made a couple really good birdies then the turn.
I'm still shaking and still can't believe this happened.   Obviously very happy.

Q.   To win going into a major week though, the importance of that, unbelievable amount of confidence, right?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Absolutely.   I'm so excited to see what I've been working on is starting to pay off.   Can't waiting to go to Palm Springs.   It's one of my favorite stops on tour. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT