HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 22, 2014
Anna Nordqvist
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  MODERATOR:   Like to welcome our third‑round leader into the interview room, Anna Nordqvist.   Anna, solid 67 for you today, 11 total.   Four‑shot lead.   Did you see it coming today? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I played really well yesterday.   Just couldn't seem to get anything going.   Played pretty solid front nine; missed a couple short putts.
But you just try to stay patient.   Finally got some momentum on 10.

Q.   Talk about the two missed putts, probably three feet each just about.   How important is that to put that behind you and kind of continue on, don't let that get in your head?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   I got a great start with a good birdie on 2.   On 5, hit a great first putt and just thought it was going to go straight but it didn't.
So just missed it there, but tried to keep going. 
I hit a great wedge shot on 7 and missed that, so that was a little bit of a momentum killer.
You just try to hang in there really after that shot.

Q.   Talk about the shot on 10 to set up the eagle.   Take us through that entire hole.   Had to be a turning point in the round. 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, took a really aggressive line off the tee.   Tried carrying it as far right of the bunker as I could.   I think I had 220 to the pin.   A little bit into the wind.
I hit a perfect fade, and I think it was within a couple inches.   Obviously that was huge for my round.

Q.   Fairway wood?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yes.

Q.   Six inches?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah.   Any time you can tap an eagle you're pretty happy.

Q.   Yeah.   Strong back nine.   Watching the leaderboards at all?   I know Michelle took the lead after her 10 holes.   Did you take a peek at that?   Did that give you a boost on the back nine? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, I watched the leaderboard and saw (indiscernible) was really running away.   Matthew had a good round.   She was up there. 
But I knew there was a couple birdies on the back nine, but the wind picked up a little bit so made it a little bit tougher.   10 is a great birdie hole and I had eagle, so that made a great par putt on 11. 
So from there it was pretty solid.   Then hit my driver on the green on 15 to get a pretty easy birdie there.   So, you know, you just try to be aggressive.   I was rolling the putter really well on the back, so I gave myself a lot of chances. 

Q.   Birdie on 18 has to be nice.   How much of a momentum booster is that going into tomorrow?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I finished a bogey yesterday so a little bit of a revenge going into 18 today.   Great shot from 50 yards up to the pin.   Felt really good to make it and to leave the 18th green with some good mojo and can't wait for tomorrow.
MODERATOR:   Questions for Anna. 

Q.   You've been leading the tournament all three days.   Are you comfortable being up in the front? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, it's great week.   It's only my second tournament this year, but seems like the work I've been putting in this winter has been paying off.   I'm very where my game is at right now.   Just can't wait for the season.
Couldn't ask for a better position going into tomorrow.

Q.   Did you lead or co‑lead after both of your wins? 
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I think I was a little bit behind when I won Tour Championship.   But any time you have a couple strokes or you're in contention going into Sunday, that's all you can ask for.

Q.   Is that an acquired mentality to have, to be excited to have the lead going into the third round with your experience?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I'm a competitor so I love to compete.   Everyone who knows me knows I hate to lose.
Definitely you got to be‑‑ it's a tough decision to be here, but the more you're in it the more comfortable you get.   I think the great players out there, Inbee, Stacy, they've been up there so many times so they look pretty comfortable out there.
For me, it's a matter of keep putting myself in those positions and the win will happen eventually.

Q.   Last wins were in 2009.   How much would a win here, especially at the beginning of the season, mean to you here?
ANNA NORDQVIST:   Yeah, I mean, I just try to take one day at a time.   There is not much that I can do other than my best tomorrow.
Definitely starting off the good year with some momentum, that would be a really good start. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT