ASAHI RYOKUKEN INTERNATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 23, 2001
Tracy Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TRACY HANSON:  No. 2, 5-iron about 15 feet.  No.  6, 3-wood onto the green and 2-putted.  First putt was 45, 48.  No.  12, the par 5, I hit wedge to about ten feet.  No.  14, I hit it over the green and failed to get up and down, missed about an 8-footer.  No.  14, I had a chip and about a 5-footer that I missed.  
 
Q.  Obviously you have to be happy with your round -  probably not happy with the final outcome.  Talk about the tournament in general, how you felt about today. 
 
TRACY HANSON:  I felt really good today.  I got a little out of my tempo on those two bogey holes that I had, otherwise I felt really good all day, and confident.  I actually lost the speed of the greens coming in.  I couldn't get it to the hole, for some reason.  
 
Q.  On 15, I saw your tee shot, just short of the green to the right.  The par 3. 
 
TRACY HANSON:  Right. 
 
Q.  You chipped up to what?
 
TRACY HANSON:  To about five feet, and missed it. 
 
Q.  Did you misread the putt?
 
TRACY HANSON:  I hit a bad stroke. 
 
Q.  What were you thinking at that point?  Were you thinking, "I need one more birdie coming in, or two"? 
 
TRACY HANSON:  I figured if I could get one more birdie coming in, I had a chance.  17 and 18 are good finishing holes.  You know, I had a couple chances.  I just didn't get it in the hole. 
 
Q.  I saw your birdie putt on 16.  How long was that?
 
TRACY HANSON:  That was 18 feet, I think.  
 
Q.  I didn't see you on 18.  How close were you on 18?
 
TRACY HANSON:  18, I had 30 feet, but I was off the fringe.  
 
Q.  The scoring wasn't that low today.  Are you surprised about that?
 
TRACY HANSON:  Not really.  The wind was up a little bit today.  Some of the pin placements were very difficult to get to with some of the irons coming into the greens.  It played tough today.  
 
Q.  The fact that there were very few birdies made on the last six holes by anybody on the leaderboard, was that the toughness of the court, the tension, the fact that it was a very close race and you knew how important all the shots were?  What was going through your mind?
 
TRACY HANSON:  I think it's a little bit of everything.  But the pins were very difficult to get to.  They had them tucked behind bunkers, where unless you hit an absolute perfect shot, you weren't going to get very close, or they had them up on the ridges, on the side of the ridges.  So the pin spots were very difficult.  Then the wind was blowing more than it has all week.  A lot of crosswind.  That always is more difficult to play in.  
 
Q.  Do you start playing - I don't want to say safe or conservative - but do you start thinking to yourself, "Just make pars, just make pars, let people come get me"? 
 
TRACY HANSON:  I was still trying to make birdies, but I got a little tentative coming in.  I wasn't quite as aggressive.  Just tried to give myself chances to make birdies.  
 
Q.  How well do you know Tina Fischer?  Can you say anything about her game?
 
TRACY HANSON:  I haven't played with Tina but once, I think.  I really don't  -- I can't say anything.  I really don't know her that well, other than just socially, you know, around the tour.  But I really don't have a comment.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT