ASAHI RYOKUKEN INTERNATIONAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 22, 2001
Tracy Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TRACY HANSON:  We got an advantage because of the greens.  We are probably a little smoother this morning than playing all day yesterday.  I think it was just as hot yesterday and it was just as hot today, so I don't think that was unfair either way.  So probably just mostly in the greens.  
 
Q.  Are you surprised how jumbled the leaderboard is?
 
TRACY HANSON:   No, I'm not surprised.  We've got so many great players out here.  Each week is turning out to be a jumbled leaderboard, and it just shows the depth of our tour.  
 
Q.  Without being able to play yesterday and then you come here and see that Emily, I guess, was at 7-under and had the lead, do you feel you had to go out and shoot a certain number to get yourself around for Sunday? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   No, I wasn't thinking that at all.  When we see the leader at a certain point every week  -- and when you are in the second round of the tournament, you can't think of the score.  You just go out and try to play your best and that's what I did today.  I was just trying to put it together and make as many birdies as I can and make. 
 
Q.  (Inaudible.)
 
TRACY HANSON:   Weirdness, in not only the country, but from cancelling the tournament, but getting out here from Portland to just kind of like, wow, another weird day, and then obviously, we didn't know it until about 12:30 what we are doing.  So half the day is over already.  I came out to practice for a couple hours to keep loose, putted a little bit, chipped and just kind of did nothing yesterday evening.  
 
Q.  Do you like the fact that you played today and then the final round tomorrow, you might have some momentum, as opposed to some people who had to sit out today?
 
TRACY HANSON:   That's probably a good point.  Probably keep a little momentum going and just having the feel of the golf course and that little gap day .  But we are professionals out here, and the people that played yesterday are going to be just as ready to play tomorrow as those of us who played today.  I birdied No. 3.  I hit a 4-iron to about nine feet.  No.  6, I just, I hit a 3-wood over the green and chipped to about six inches; so I had to tap-in.  No. 7, I hit a 7-iron to about ten feet.  No.  9, I hit a sand wedge to about 12 feet.  No. 10, I hit a pitching wedge to about four feet.  No. 13, I missed the green with the 9-iron and failed to get up-and-down.  I had about a 24-footer for par.  No. 15, I hit a 6-iron to about nine feet. 17, I hit an 8-iron to 12 feet.  
 
Q.  Talk about the expectations for tomorrow.  Do you have any idea of what are you looking for?  Is there a certain number that you have in mind?
 
TRACY HANSON:   I'm not going to look at a number.  I'm going to go out and try to win the golf tournament and just play to win.  I'm not in control of what the other golfers are doing.  Obviously, by the play of the last two days, it's going to have to be a low number to win this golf tournament tomorrow, especially if the weather stays the way it has been.  So I'm just going to do my approach to tomorrow's round just as I did today.  
 
Q.  Is this the kind of course that suits your game in particular in any way? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   I think it has a little bit of both.  There's holes that I feel real good about, and there's a couple holes that you get a little  -- not real sure what to do.  But every day I played, I feel a little bit more comfortable on it.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT