MCDONALD'S LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
June 22, 2000
Tracy Hanson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TRACY HANSON:   No.  6, I hit a 6-iron 21 feet.  15, I hit a 6-iron to 12 feet.  And 16, I hit a sand wedge to about a foot.  
 
Q.  Any dramatic saves? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   I had a sand save on 5.  It was a good sand save.  That's just a tough par 3, tough hole.  
 
Q.  How many greens did you hit? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   I missed five; so I hit 13.  
 
Q.  Do you feel good about this course?  Do you like the way it is set up for you?
 
TRACY HANSON:   The course is in great shape.  It's the best shape out of the six years I've played here.  I think that helps in thinking that, okay, you can make putts, as long as  -- you've got to stay on the fairway here.  Played a little different today after the rain last night.  A little bit slower, a little bit longer.  But I hit the ball pretty well. 
 
Q.  How is the course overall playing? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   It was slow this morning, but it's going to start drying out a little bit as the wind picks up out there.  The greens were softer today than they have been the last two days.  But the conditions are playing great, as far as fairways and greens.  
 
Q.  Do you think there might have been any advantage going out early? 
 
TRACY HANSON:  Probably only because of the wind, but I'm sure it will flip-flop tomorrow; and we'll get the wind and they will have the nice morning probably.  We played in a little bit of rain this morning. 
 
Q.  How does it feel to be in the position you are now, to be brought into the interview room and have people talk to you about your round? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   I don't really think about that.  I'm happy with that I got off to a quick start.  This is a tough golf course, and over four days, there's going to be a lot of shot-making that has to be made before the winner is crowned on Sunday.  I'm just happy with getting off to a good start, getting under par, and hopefully, continue doing the things that I did today the next three days. 
 
Q.  Have you had a sub-par round before?  I know you've had some fairly high finishes here?
 
TRACY HANSON:   Have I had a sub-par round before?  I've had a few. (Laughs). 
 
Q.  No, a sub-par round here, or sub-70 here?
 
TRACY HANSON:   Yes, I have.  
 
Q.  What's your best round here? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   I know I've shot 69.  
 
Q.  Did you do anything last week on the off-week to work on your game, maybe something that got you going today?
 
TRACY HANSON:   I worked with my pro a little bit.  I just practiced a couple days is all, and tried to take a few days of rest after a long stretch. 
 
Q.  You didn't go to France? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   No.  
 
Q.  At any part during your round did you feel like you were having a good day, or was it hole by hole, and when you were done you could see what you had? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   I think after I made birdie on 6, kind of got the putter rolling a little bit.  I made some good putts and I made a lot of good 4-footers today to save pars.  I think just from the beginning, I felt like I was hitting the ball well, and I just tried to maintain the couple swing thoughts that I had going out; and I accomplished that goal, and in the end, it was good for the score as well. 
 
Q.  Did you leave any strokes out there? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   Yeah, I missed a couple makeable birdie putts.  
 
Q.  Would you rather play the week before a major or have the week off? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   I don't know if it matters to me, as long as I  -- I just needed a week off to rest, because I had a long stretch of tournaments, but I didn't really approach this week any differently than I would another tournament.  
 
Q.  How long of a stretch did you play?
 
TRACY HANSON:   Well, I was on the road for seven weeks, but I only played six of the seven weeks.  
 
Q.  When you're out there, do you look at the leaderboard to know if you're having a good round, you could be up there, or do you just try to ignore that and focus? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   I glance at it.  
 
Q.  The fact that it was a bogey-less round, is that especially gratifying when you can play a round without a bogey? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   I think on this course to have no bogeys is pretty good.  I mean, every time I missed the green, I made a good up-and-down. 
 
Q.  How would you describe your year to date, and what have you  -- how have you been doing? 
 
TRACY HANSON:   I had a slow start the first couple months, and then the last two months, I feel like I've started to play some good golf.  Had some Top-20s, Top-15.  
 

End of FastScripts.... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT