MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 13, 2006
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 


Q.  That was a remarkable comeback.  Did you ever think that you were never going to win?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  When I was down 6-4, 4-1, for sure I wasn't in good position at that point.  So I couldn't find a solution.  I was between the fact that I had to be aggressive but I had to be patient, and I couldn't find the good balance.  So she was dominating the points, and she was coming to the net, which was -- I was supposed to do that.  So I was a little bit frustrating.  But she was playing great.  She did put on me a lot of pressure, and it was hard for me to handle this.  But after that, I just tried to stay focused on every point.  I've been more aggressive.  I was hitting the ball harder.  And finally that turned.  But even in the third set I was 5-3 down, so I just never thought it was over.  That's probably what helped me to win the match. 

Q.  When did you feel it start to turn?  Did you see her tighten up a little bit?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  When I won the second set for sure, and also at 5-3 in the third I felt she was nervous to win.  She was a little bit scared to win the match.  So I felt that, and at that point I was very calm because I knew I had to play point after point and stay very focused.  And I really enjoyed this match.  I think that was great match.  Even if I didn't play my best tennis first part of the match, I think that I had a very, very good opponent in front of me tonight so that wasn't easy. 

Q.  How much of a confidence boost is it to come through a match like this heading into the Australian Open?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I just try to enjoy the moment, winning another title, the first one in 2006.  I think it's great for my comeback.  For sure it gives confidence, but a Grand Slam is very different.  The next step is going to -- I have to recover quickly and then get ready for next week.  But it's going to be different.  I think the situation is very different from what it was in 2004 when I won here.  So I just have to be patient, give the time to my body to recover, and get ready for the whole season.

Q.  What did you make of your draw for the Australian Open?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I just know I'm play Domachowska the first round.  That's the only thing that I care about.  My first round is the next step, and I don't want to talk too much about the rest right now. 

Q.  Can you tell us something more about her. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I don't know her very well, so give me the time to enjoy my time here and then maybe later this weekend we can talk about my first round.  But I don't know her very well, but I'm sure Carlos will say everything to me next few days. 

Q.  Were you having trouble with your serve early on?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I did.  I didn't serve as well as I did yesterday, but that's tennis, that's life.  Sometimes it's not as good.  But I did handle it with my second serve.  I did a couple of double-faults, but I think that at the end it was much better.  Just some days like this.  You have to -- not serving as hard as I did yesterday, but it's like that.  I don't know why exactly.  It's a bad day for my serve. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT