US OPEN
September 5, 2005
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine, please. 


Q.  The first five games, she was incredible. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, you can see it in both ways.  She was playing well, and she did put a lot of pressure on myself in the first few games of the match.  At that point, I was feeling a lot of pressure.  I was very far from my baseline, and I wasn't aggressive enough because I was feeling this pressure from her.  So she played well.  After that, I started to play a little bit better.  I came back in the first set.  I kept fighting, had a breakpoint at 5-3.  But she was just better than me at that point.  Then in the second set, I've been broken twice, I think.  But it's one break in the end, she could keep her serve.  She served much better than I did.  She took the opportunity.  Too many ups and downs from my side, just considering winning the match.  It's pretty hard to accept. 

Q.  Are you very surprised how well she played given that in the four times you played her, she's never taken a set from you, what happened in Roland Garros?  Are you surprised how well she played?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, she played well.  I don't think I was at the level I was at the French Open or the other times I played her.  But Mary played well.  I give her a lot of credit because she played a great match.  She's probably playing the best tennis of her career. 

Q.  You squatted down a few times, stretch your hamstring.  Is your hamstring bothering you?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, it does.  It's now a few months I have to play with it.  I'll have to take some decisions in the next few days.  I'm not going to walk back on the court till my injury doesn't bother me at all.  I'll see how long it's going to take. 

Q.  How far do you think Mary can go playing, if she plays that kind of power tennis? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's tough, tough to say.  Every match is different.  Every opponent is different.  The pressure is going to be big for all the players in the quarterfinals.  It's pretty open.  I don't know.  I don't know. 

Q.  Just assessing her and Mauresmo, how would you assess her?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It depends on many things.  It depends on the situation, how she will wake up in two days.  It depends of many things.  I have no idea about it.  You know, right now that's not my biggest problem. 

Q.  Can you talk about some of the double-faults that you had today?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I had a lot of trouble with my serve in this tournament.  I don't know.  It's pretty hard.  I'm disappointed today.  In the few moments in the match, I was feeling I was back in the match.  As soon as I had some hopes, I was losing my service game at that point.  It's been tough. 

Q.  Were you able to push off for your serve? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  That gave me my injury, give me a lot of trouble in the last few weeks, especially on my serve.  I can probably not push like I'm used to.  It's not an excuse for me today. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT