WIMBLEDON
June 23, 2010
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. HENIN/K. Barrois
  6-3, 7-5

 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Justine. 

 Q. How did you think that went for you today?
 JUSTINE HENIN: Well, it was, yeah, good till 6-3, 5-1. I was really into my match. We could see a lot of things, I mean, having improved, of course. And I think I started the match being aggressive. 
 She doesn't give a lot of rhythm so you have to do everything all the time. She's quite smart to play. Yeah, and then at 5-1 in the second, the intensity dropped down. For a few games, yeah, really I was sometimes too much in a rush to finish, probably because she gave up at that time and my intensity really dropped down. 
 Well, I had a good reaction to the situations that I had to experience a lot. That happened to me a lot in the past. 
 So generally positive except these few games that I could finish the match earlier. Away from that, I was feeling better in my shoulder, could serve better today. So that was the good thing. 

 Q. Are you still trying to readjust to Grand Slam tennis or do you find it's a bit like riding a bicycle?
 JUSTINE HENIN: I don't know if a Grand Slam tennis is different than general tennis. But I think, of course, the situation here is a bit different. You really need to get used to this routine again, of course. To play one day, to have a day off, then to play again, I mean, it's not that easy to deal with. 
 But I start to get used to it and am feeling better physically also. So a good feeling at the moment. 

 Q. Winning any tournament is obviously key. This one has escaped you in the past. Does this one have an extra special yearning for you?
 JUSTINE HENIN: I'm very happy to be here, that's for sure. It's a place that I like a lot. Of course, I could never do it in the past, and that remains a dream for me. 
 I just see myself as an outsider this year because, uhm, still a year with ups and downs. I don't know how I'm gonna deal, you know, at very high level. So it's very hard to predict what could happen. 
 But I really don't see myself as one of the favorites. I hope Wimbledon will be a goal for me one day. It's a dream at the moment. Just enjoy every moment, go step by step, match after match, and we'll see. 

 Q. Kim says she likes being at Wimbledon because you can set up a family home and go around. 
 JUSTINE HENIN: Yeah. Yeah, I love. But I see this differently than in the past. I don't know. It's like I really open my eyes now. In the past, after the French, usually I've played well at the French, and emotionally I was coming here with a lot of pressure. I was No. 1 also at that time. 
 Now I see really things differently. I mean, I've played on Court No. 2. I thought it's beautiful court and a lot of things have changed. But the atmosphere is just fantastic. You really feel the passion of the game. 
 It's true, being at home, that gives something different. At the middle of the season, that's what you need because it's already a few tournaments behind you. It's good that you feel, yeah, with my family also. My sister arrived today, so it's a nice feeling.

 Q. You're a great student of the game. Some have said recently it's become more a game of veterans, of the older players. A teenager has not won a Grand Slam since Maria at the US Open in '06. Can you try and analyze why the veterans have been doing so well?
 JUSTINE HENIN: I love the veterans (smiling). Yeah, I mean, it's been an amazing generation: Serena, Venus, Kim, a lot of other players that are playing probably their best tennis maybe a little later. I think it's been a fantastic generation. 
 And the new generation is also very good, but didn't make the difference yet. So probably the experience is important for the older players right now. And, uhm, I mean, it's been a great generation because many players were very good at that time, and we pushed, you know, each other. We pushed each other to really get better. 
 Serena and Venus I think brought a lot to the game because they really pushed us to physically and mentally get better. And I think they did an amazing job for women's tennis, as we really had to get better after them. 
 So it was interesting. And now we'll see. I mean, a lot of the young players are very close to really win. But we'll see where it's going to happen and when. 

 Q. Do you find it interesting for many years it was a sport of teenage phenoms like Hingis, Seles, Graf, all the way back to Evert. That sort of has changed. 
 JUSTINE HENIN: That's true. It's a good analysis. As now you can see all the players, I mean, being at the top at 28, 29. That remains positive for me, as I'm going to have only 28. It means maybe a few more years. 
 It's true that things have changed. Probably the game is physically that takes a lot from you also. Now, I mean, you probably need a little bit of more time to be at your best. 

 Q. What are your thoughts on one of the players who did well here, won a championship, but has had injuries, Maria Sharapova, who is at the other end of the end from you, a big hitter, like the Williams sisters? How would you describe her game and what she means to the tour?
 JUSTINE HENIN: Well, I have a lot of respect for Maria. She's a real champion in terms of attitude. I mean, of course, if we talk about tennis, we all know what she did in the past, winning US Open, here. And I think she's a real fighter. I mean, she never gives up. 
 On the court, her attitude is just unbelievable as she's fighting all the time. At the moment she's fighting to come back from injuries and from a difficult time. But, yeah, I think she's one of, you know, the players that is so focused, that she knows what she wants. And I think I have a lot of respect for that. 
 I've played her at the French again. Even in the last game of the match, when she was down 5-3 and 40-Love in the third, you know, she still wants to come back. 
 So she's a real champion, that is for sure. And probably she needs some time after the surgery and shoulder. I think it's difficult to come back at your best level. But she will. I'm sure of that. 

 Q. When you were out of the game, was it very frustrating? Did you think about the fact that you were so close but never won the title?
 JUSTINE HENIN: I was not frustrated when I was away. Maybe a little more now. Still I get more opportunities. 
 It's true, you know, when I go back and I think about what happened especially, I wouldn't say 2007, but I would talk about 2006 in the final against Mauresmo, I had the control of the match, I was up a set. You know, when you look back like this, you say, You should keep the intensity. The motivation has to be so high at the time because you're just a set away to win the only Grand Slam you never won. 
 But when you on the court, when you in the situation, you give everything. It's true that when you can take the distance a few years later, you say, Maybe I should have give more. But when you on the court, you know, at that moment, that's not that easy. 
 I had a few opportunities in 2007 also. But even if you feel so close, you still so far. Because, you know, until the last point is not over, you never know really what to expect. Emotionally I was a bit too short all the time. 
 I can play well on grass. I think I proved it enough in the past, beating Serena here in 2007, had pretty good results. But it was, you know, always the last thing to do. 
 Well, it's good, yeah. I still have a challenge in my career right now. 

 Q. Do you think the frustrations from all the points you mentioned from '06, will that always be with you until you win the championship?
 JUSTINE HENIN: Well, I wouldn't talk about the frustration. It's been one of the most difficult moments of my career, that is for sure. But when I look back, you know, just thinking about that little girl that wanted to win a Grand Slam, and we talk about the only Grand Slam I never won. 
 I think the way is just unbelievable. Everything I did in my career is just unbelievable. And I have other challenges now. Wimbledon is one of them. 
 I don't know really what I can expect or what will happen. So I wouldn't talk about frustration. I think it's something I was dreaming about, but not enough maybe. So we'll see in the future. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT