ROGERS CUP
August 21, 2005
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine, please. 


Q.  What went wrong today? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think many, many things.  I think Kim played pretty solid, very consistent.  But the conditions were difficult.  It was real windy, and I never found a good rhythm.  And also I was a little bit tired.  You know, I played three nights in a row and went to bed very late last two nights, so I was for sure tired and I wasn't moving well on the court.  Even though I kept fighting, at the end of the first set I came back at 5-All, but it was hard for me to keep the rhythm like this.  No excuses.  She played better than me. 

Q.  You had a very tough match on the Friday night in the quarterfinals.  Not only was it a good back-and-fourth match, but it was 11:45 at night when it was over.  Was it tough, today maybe it caught up to you?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I played on Thursday night, Friday night, and yesterday evening also.  So I haven't been in bed before 1:00 the last three days.  After one day you for sure start to feel it.  I don't have excuses.  That didn't help me.  But you have to deal with the conditions, and I couldn't today.  I think I played five matches this week, which is good before going to the US Open.  I just have to try to stay positive. 

Q.  It seemed like you were framing your shots a little more today.  You had done that in some earlier matches.  Was it because of the wind or was there something a little bit off?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I think it was both.  The wind didn't help.  But it was for both of us.  Kim was moving better.  I wasn't fresh enough, I think, to compete with her today.  But, yeah, I'll have another chance.  My main goal remains the US Open, and I have a week to recover from these last three nights.  Pretty crazy with the rain, too.  But, yeah, I never felt very good in the court today except for a few games. 

Q.  How did the wind affect you? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  We could see it.  I mean, it's not easy to play when it's windy.  I mean, it was turning around all the time, so I never knew where it was coming from.  It was difficult.  Even Kim, she had some problems when she had the wind behind her.  But she just deal better than me with the wind, for sure. 

Q.  You have met in the finals of major tournaments, and you've won.  Do you see anything different from Kim now in her game, especially leading up to the US Open? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think she's in confidence right now, that's for sure.  She won a lot of matches in the last few weeks, so that helps to being confidence before going to Grand Slam.  But I think Kim hasn't changed a lot since she's back on the tour.  She's playing pretty same way, very consistent, very powerful, moving very well.  She's fighting all the time.  I always knew Kim like this. 

Q.  How is your hamstring right now?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's okay, yeah.  I mean, my muscles were pretty tired today.  I could feel it.  I could feel a lot of fatigue.  But my hamstring is feeling pretty good. 

Q.  Looking ahead at both The Open and also the rest of the season, there has been talk about instant replay.  It isn't instituted yet.  Is this something you'd be in favor of either with the technology and also the way players can ask for it? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  About what? 

Q.  Instant replay, a video replay of shots. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I think I'm pretty positive about that.  But we have to find a good balance because it's not going to be easy to deal with that.  But sometimes some mistakes, they make big difference in the match.  I mean like, I don't know, on Friday night on set point, the ball was I think very long, and that could change.  I should have win 6-3 and I had to fight and win 7-5.  You know, when it's tight (indiscernible).  It's going to be tough to find a good solution.  So I hope we can deal with it in the future. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT