ROGERS CUP
August 20, 2005
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine, please.  
 
 
Q.  You get to play Kim again - somebody you've played many, many times.  Can you talk a little bit about what that will be like?  Do you have a rivalry with her?  Can you still surprise each other and challenge each other?  You must know each other so well by now. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Oh, yeah, I think we know each other very, very well.  It's always been a motivation for both of us to see the good results of the other.  So I think it's great for Belgian tennis that we are back at the same time.  It's going to be, I think, our first match since final of the Australian Open 2004.  So it's a long time ago.  I think it's very good for both of us.  I hope we can play good tennis and give something good to the crowd.  
 
Q.  It seemed like we were going to have a long night.  It was 1-1 in the third set.  It looked like it was going to go back and forth.  Can you talk about what changed. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It was pretty strange.  I think that I had some ups and downs in the match.  I started very well.  Even when she came back in the first set, I think I've been very consistent, won a lot of points with the forehand.  I was up 2-Love in the second and lost a little bit of energy and aggressivity.  She took all the opportunities.  She was serving much better, came to the net much more often.  When she broke me first game of the third set, I was a little bit scared at that point that it could be a quick third set.  But it turned over.  I could break back very quickly in the third set.  That gave me a lot of confidence back.  I think in the third set, I've been very, very consistent.  
 
Q.  You and Kim are tied 9-9 right now in your career matches.  Is that something you pay any attention to at all? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No.  I think that every match is different.  And who knows what can happen.  I mean, tomorrow's going to be another situation, another kind of match, and the best will win. I think Kim is in confidence for sure right now.  She played so well in the last few weeks.  She proved that here in the States on hard court she is probably the toughest player to beat.  So it's going to be a tough mission for me tomorrow.  I believe I can do it, but I'll have to play my best tennis.  
 
Q.  Besides Grand Slam titles, you just kind of look at your path, her path, even missing time the last year or so, how similar are the two of you? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think we are very different on and off the court.  I think we have two different kind of personalities, probably totally opposite, two different kind of games.  But many common points.  We grew up very close from each other.  We traveled a lot together.  We were pretty close when we were younger, but we knew when you become professional, it's hard to keep the friendship.  But we have a lot of respect for each other.  Yeah, but it's a very different game and very different kind of persons.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT