NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 28, 2005
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  How do you feel about this match?  You looked better than your two previous matches.  Do you feel more confident?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I think that's pretty normal, you feel better in the third round than in the first round.  It was very good, very good level today.  Good match.  That give a lot of confidence, you know, because she served so good, she played unbelievable.  It was good fight. So I lost a little bit my concentration in the second set, but this kind of thing can happen when you come back after seven months.  So I knew it could happen.  I was ready for it.  So I'm very happy that I could come back in the third and play the way I played.  It was very good tennis.  I'm very happy about that. 
 

Q.  You feel you recovered your form?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You know, it's still too early to say that because it's only my first tournament and I still have a lot of things to improve. But I think today we watch me, I mean, I play the way I have to play tennis - very aggressive, I went a lot to the net, I enjoyed so much my tennis on the court.  It was very funny. 
 

Q.  Your return of serve today looked really good.  Seemed like you were anticipating where she was going almost every point.  Did you feel that way?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think I was just going for it.  Because if I was returning in slice, no way I could break her.  She was serving unbelievable on every breakpoint that I had during the match, I think maybe once she had to serve a second serve.  So it was pretty amazing. But it was a very good match.  I was a little bit surprised the way I could play because it's been long, you know, seven months.  And today I really enjoyed coming back on the court, playing my first Top 10 since long time, and that's very good for my confidence. 
 

Q.  What about for tomorrow, Sharapova?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think that's only bonus for me because, you know, what I'm doing here this week is very good.  I found my game again.  That's very good for the future, you know.  I came here in Miami to play few matches and that's what I have.  It's gonna be my fourth match tomorrow, and I will have nothing to lose. Sharapova is for sure going to be the favorite.  We all know what she did in the last few months.  We all know that she's very good player.  We want the same thing, winning tomorrow.  I will try to do my best, try to enjoy my game on the court like I did today.  We will see what is going to happen. 
 

Q.  At 5-3, 30-All, you hit that lob.  Talk about that shot.
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, it was good point, very good point.  I don't know, I've been maybe a little bit lucky.  It was very close. But, no, I think that's what people, they love to watch.  That was very good tennis match today.  So I hope they enjoyed it. 
 

Q.  People love to watch it, and players love to play it.
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Oh, yeah, yeah.  I think that Alicia enjoyed also the match.  It was very good match.  It's good to play this way, you know.  I played my game.  I had no pressure, even if I lost my concentration a little bit in the second set.  I didn't want to lose this match, you know, 6-2 and 6-1 in the third.  That could happen, but I just tried to stay concentrate on every point, play a little bit more aggressive at the beginning of the third set, and it worked pretty good. 
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT