WIMBLEDON
June 21, 2010
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







J. HENIN/A. Sevastova
  6-4, 6-3

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. How does it feel to be back at Wimbledon? 
 JUSTINE HENIN: It's a very good feeling. I mean, just got here yesterday, flying from Brussels yesterday morning. 
 But at the first minute, it was very good feeling, yeah, to be back. I think I see things differently at the moment. I probably enjoy it much more. No, it's been only good things since I'm arrived. I'm happy about today's match. Good to be back on the court also. 
 So very positive at the moment. 

 Q. When you were not here, what did you miss the most?
 JUSTINE HENIN: Uhm, it's very hard to describe. Generally, I mean, just the atmosphere. I mean, the way we breathe tennis, we live tennis over here. You feel the tradition of the game. And I think it's just fantastic that I have the opportunity to live it again and feel very lucky about that. 
 So be back on grass is a good feeling also. I mean, it's three years. In Rosmalen, I had a pretty good preparation. And the grass is better here. It's the best. So that helps. 
 And, yeah, I think just to be in white, you know, playing in white is a good feeling, too. I'm very happy. I feel I'm at the right place. So that's a good thing. 

 Q. Trying to win here was your major motivating force I think for coming back. Does that put a lot of pressure on you?
 JUSTINE HENIN: No, I don't -- I mean, it's been one of the reasons why I decided to come back. When I saw Roger winning the French Open, I started to say, Well, I miss Wimbledon. That will be fantastic. I don't know if it will happen one day. 
 That remains a dream for me. In another way, I'm very realistic as it's a year of transition, and I had some opportunities in the past, you know, that I could never take. 
 But still a few more to come. But I don't put a lot of pressure on myself at the moment as I know it's been very good things in this season, but some ups and downs. 
 The pressure of a Grand Slam is always different. Physically, mentally and emotionally it takes much more from you. 
 So if I can make it one day, that would be, I mean, an amazing achievement, you know, thinking about this little girl that was dreaming of winning a Grand Slam. It's the only one I never won in the past, so that would be fantastic. 
 I hope it become a goal one day and true. But it's still very early to think about this. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT