OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 19, 2004
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.  
 
 
Q.  Looks easy, but is it easy?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No.  Not any match is easy and today I knew I had to play good tennis if I wanted to win.  Mary is the kind of player who is very dangerous.  She is hitting the ball very hard, so you don't know what to expect on each point.  So you need to stay focused and that's what I did from the first point till the end.  So I'm pretty happy.  
 
Q.  You had a tremendous result on your first serve.  Did you work on that during your absence?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, like I said, I worked pretty hard on my first serve and especially in the first set.  I served very good.  I have, yeah.  It's very intense and I have a good technique now.  So it's pretty good, actually.  I win a lot of points on my first serve.  I hope it's going to help me again tomorrow. 
 
Q.  What did you change exactly?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  But, I mean, it's very personal.  I just worked on my serve and I found the confidence that I need to serve pretty good on the important points.  
 
Q.  I'd like to ask you a question about winning Grand Slams.  A couple players have won for the first time this year - Myskina and Sharapova.  Can you explain it at this point, how has it changed your life, to win big tournaments, sort of externally as the world views you and also internally, how it changed yourself?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  My life changed for sure, but I stayed the same person.  I'm probably a different player because I got a lot of confidence with all my victories.  Dreams came true in the last year and a half.  It seems very far away already for now.  But it changed a lot of things because I am a different player.  I show another confidence, I show another -- yeah, I'm sure of myself.  I feel it on the court and I think the other players, they see it also.  So, yeah, it changed a lot of things.  But I stayed the same person.  I have another life apart tennis and it didn't change anything.  Even if I am No. 1 player in the world, for sure you have a lot of things to do and busy schedule.  But it's part of my life.  
 
Q.  Winning Grand Slams means winning big money.  Winning an Olympics is winning an Olympic medal.  What does that mean to you? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You know, I don't play for money; I play because I love tennis.  And we play for money the whole year.  So here there is no money, and that's very good like that because it's another atmosphere.  I think we all very proud of it.  So I hope I can -- now I feel that the Olympic Games, it's very important, even for myself now that I'm here in Athens, that I live this experience.  I hope I can win the medal, but I need to stay focused on my next match, and then we'll see. 
 
Q.  Can you look ahead to playing Myskina. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I -- last time on hard court it was, I think, in Indian Wells and then at the US Open.  I won both of them.  I lost in Leipzig.  It's pretty close always between us.  Myskina, she got a lot of confidence after her victory in Paris, and she's this kind of player who's not giving anything, she's big fighter, she's going on every point.  She has very good mentality.  And every time she's on the court, she's going for the winners.  She's not putting too much pressure on herself.  It's going to be another tough mission for me.  But I'm very happy the way I play right now, and I hope I can keep going. 
 
Q.  What satisfied you the most today?  And, on the other side, what do you feel you need to pick up on?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think I served pretty good, especially in the first set.  I lost a little bit my first serve in the second set, but I kept my concentration the whole match, even if it was hard because sometimes, not so much rhythm.  So I just kept focused on my game.  I think I can play better on the return, especially I need to be a little bit more consistent.  But I hope that the next match is going to help me to find it. 
 
Q.  Is that part going to be the important aspect against Myskina, that return?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think everything is important.  Serving well is very important.  The first two shots of the point is very important against Myskina because she has been hitting the ball very hard.  I had a good test today, and I hope that tomorrow is going to be as good as it was tonight. 
 
Q.  And just finally, is she somebody that you like to play, or do you find her a bit frustrating?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  She's very nice person, first.  She's very -- we have good relationship, and that's pretty good.  But she is hitting the ball very fast and so you have to be careful all the time and very quick.  So I'll have to move well and I'll have to play my best tennis.  But I never say if I like to play against a player or no because who knows what can happen tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Do you look at Myskina differently now that she's won a Slam? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Oh, I think that I have a lot of respect for all the players here, not only for the players who won Grand Slams.  But I think that probably she's different player.  She got a lot of confidence.  I didn't watch too much tennis in the last few months, so I cannot say. 
 
Q.  What are your expectations going into New York? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Oh, I don't think about New York right now.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT