OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 15, 2004
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine.


Q.  My question is about the lack of crowds here at all the venues.  Is it disappointing at all to come out and see so few people, especially when you haven't played in so long?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You know, it's the first match.  I was very focused on the match.  And when you're focused, you don't see what happens in the stadium.  So that's a good sign that I didn't see anything about that.  But Belgian fans and people, that's good.  I think we going to have more and more people when the tournament is going to be at the end.

Q.  What was it like being out there for the first time in quite some time?  Can you just discuss your practice regimen, when you really felt like you were back to normal?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Oh, yeah, now I'm feeling good.  You know, even if I was nervous during the match, I had good feelings.  And I feel finally healthy, so that's the most important thing.  If I play well or bad, win or lose, that's not the most important thing.  I feel like I can do my job again, my passion, and that's the most important right now.  During my practice, it's working very good, but it's going to take a little bit of time to be exactly the same in the matches.  But it's a good first round.  You know, it gives me a lot of confidence.  It's not an easy match.  Tough conditions.  It's really windy out there.  But I think I could deal with my emotions, and that was probably the toughest part of the match.

Q.  When did you get back to normal practicing?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Between two or three weeks ago, yeah.  So that's not a lot, but it's enough for being here and I enjoy my tennis right now, really.

Q.  How did you know you were back to normal?  Was it just one day, you said, "Okay"?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I don't know.  One day I woke up and I was feeling much better, not as tired as I was in the past.  It was probably a month ago.  And then day after day, I could see that I was improving a lot.  I wasn't tired any more, I could practice more and more.  It took a little bit of time, but a week before coming here I was feeling like I could practice totally normally, and that gave me the good point to come here.

Q.  What do you expect realistically from yourself after not competing since the French?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Oh, I don't know exactly what to expect right now.  Now I have a match, so that's pretty good.  I need matches before the end of the season because my main goal is going to be being ready for next year.  For sure, I didn't play for a long time, so I hope I can play a lot of matches in the next few weeks.  But I enjoy my tennis probably like I never did in the past right now because I've been away from the courts for a long time, and I was tired and frustrated a little bit about that.  But now I'm back, and that's very good.  I will enjoy the situation, the Olympic Games, and then the US Open.  I go step by step.  I don't know exactly where I'm going to go, but I know that I'm going to take my time, I'm going to be patient to come back in my top level.

Q.  I was curious how winning a medal here in the Olympics would compare to, say, winning a Grand Slam event?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I have no idea because I won Grand Slams, but I never won a medal in the Olympics.  It's my first one.  Maybe one day I hope I can win it and I'll tell you my feeling.

Q.  Can you medically say what the virus was?  I've seen a couple different things.  It was a blood virus?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, like mononucleosis, exactly same kind of virus, same symptoms. Not as long, but exactly the same virus, yeah.  So you never know.  It's a very long name, tough one.  You never know when it's going to be over, and that's the problem with this kind of illness.  You have nothing to do; just be patient, take your time.  But it was probably the toughest part of my career right now.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT