PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 13, 2004
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine, please. 


Q.  Could you describe your match, how it went for you?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You know, it's a first round, so it's never easy, first match in a tournament.  I think that probably didn't play my best tennis, but there were really positive things.  I stayed very calm, you know.  I served well when I had to, and I've been more aggressive at the end of the match.  I needed a little bit of time to be in the tournament, to get used to the heat, to the conditions.  I'm happy I came through in two sets.  We'll see for the next match. 

Q.  Is that a good preparation for you then, getting your first win?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You know, a win is a win.  When I go on the court, it's always with the same goal:  try to win the match no matter what happens, no matter where I play.  It's always better to play a good match.  I think it hasn't been that bad, so I think that's good for the next round. 

Q.  Coming into this tournament, you've been here I think three times before. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's my third time. 

Q.  This is one tournament you haven't had a lot of success at.  Are you excited to be here?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I'm very excited to come back because, you know, things are different right now.  I'm a different player.  A lot of things have changed since my last appearance here two years ago.  That's a tournament where I never played well, but I thought that many times in New York also, and I won the US Open.  I think now I just try to keep that off my mind because I want to stay focused on every match I have to play.  I change a lot, so that's good news. 

Q.  You played Samantha once before at the US Open.  You beat her that time.  How was this match different than that last match?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's a long time ago already, so I don't have too many things to say about that.  But I think she played a good match today.  She was -- you know, it's this kind of situation that I'm going to be really (inaudible) this year against an opponent who has nothing to lose.  She's going on everything.  She had a lot of success.  But I had to be careful of this match.  I was.  I was feeling danger sometimes, so that's good first round. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT