AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2004
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Justine, please.  
 
 
Q.  In defeating Lindsay, you've overturned the 5-1 head-to-head record.  Do you approach matches where your opponent has beaten you more times than you've beaten them any differently or with any less confidence?  What advice could you give to players who readily lose to their opponents?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I lost many times against Lindsay, I agree.  But, you know, I'm a different player right now with much more experience, with much more confidence, and I always knew that I had to come on the court and play good tennis if I wanted to win.  She's a great player, great champion.  And I didn't think too much about our last matches, you know, about last year or anything because I was just focused on what I had to do today in this match.  You know, everything is very different right now.  What I did last year gave me a lot of confidence, and it helps me in these kind of matches. 
 
Q.  When do you think it turned in the first set?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You know, when I broke her to come to 4-1, I understood that if I kept fighting on every point, I was feeling that the match could turn at this point.  And I kept my serve, you know, going to 4-2.  I was feeling better and better.  She started the match unbelievable.  She was playing great, hitting the ball very hard, going for a lot of winners.  And she was serving well.  I wasn't ready for that.  I was very surprised about the way she was playing at the beginning, and I needed a couple games, you know, to be in the good rhythm.   When I saved the three set points, for sure, I mean, it could turn on my service game.   But, no, that give me a lot of confidence to come back in this first set.  
 
Q.  Have you played in a match where there were so many breaks of serve as there were in the first set by both players?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It happened already, for sure.  I mean, I don't remember right now a match like this.  But I think that we had pretty good returns, and I wasn't serving that well at the beginning of the match.  My percentage was very, very low.  And then I had really good returns at the end of the first set.  You know, I could read where she was going to serve, and that helped me to win many games on her serve.  So it really was a little bit strange and special.  But I think we watch a good match of tennis.  
 
Q.  After the early onslaught, is that the best you've played this year?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Since the beginning of the year, probably, because I had many troubles at the beginning of the tournament and here, which is normal, like I said, because it's a different situation, it's my first tournament at No. 1 player in the world, and in a Grand Slam.  So it's not easy to deal with.  But I knew that playing Lindsay was going to help me because I knew that I had to play a good match, a good tennis, if I wanted to go to the semis.  So that was a good tennis after 4-Love down.  I think I played pretty good.  
 
Q.  What do you think about the semis against Fabiola?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's going to be another semifinal in a Grand Slam.  I'm very happy about that.  You know, it's going to be a tough match because Fabiola is a little bit like everybody's going to say the surprise here in the semis.  But I can tell you that she's playing a very good tennis.  She's a very talented player.  And she'll have, for sure, a lot of motivation.  I'm very disappointed for Amelie because she's a friend of mine, very nice person, and that's very sad what happens here.  But for myself, I go on the court and be very serious because I know it's going to be another tough match, and I have to be ready for it.  
 
Q.  When was the last time you played Zuluaga?  How is your record against her?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I don't remember at all.  I don't know.  No, I don't know the last time.  
 
Q.  Hobart. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I was going to say here in Australia, Hobart, but I didn't know if we played each other since that.  That was in 2000, I think.  
 
Q.  Did being No. 1 give you confidence in that match you may not have had 12 months ago?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  We could see that I stayed very calm, you know, because the situation wasn't easy.  I was down 4-Love.  And I just said, "Okay, forget about everything else, be focused on every point."  And for sure in the second set, the fact that everything I did in the past gave me a lot of experience, a lot of confidence.  We could see that even at the end of the match, I wasn't that nervous like I was last year.  So a lot of things happened.  But I think that's not the fact that I'm No. 1 right now.  I think that's all the matches I've won last year.  And sometimes it's very bad situations, you know. So that's pretty good.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT