US OPEN
August 28, 2003
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine, please.  
 
 
Q.  Everyone else played long matches today except for you.  You must have played very well. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's good.  I played a very good match today finally.  I played a very high level of tennis.  I just played my game like I did in the last two tournaments.  Yeah, I was feeling a little more relaxed than I was in the first round.  That's normal.  I was really focused, so that's good news. 
 
Q.  She can be a tricky player sometimes to play.  You hit through her pretty well. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I think that I've been very focused on every point.  I knew that I had to be aggressive.  I came very often to the net.  I know I had to do that.  I've been very aggressive on her second serve.  It was one of the key of the match.  So I'm very happy with the way I played.  
 
Q.  The first round, obviously you always feel nerves in a Grand Slam, this one particularly.  Today when you went out, you felt nothing at all?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I was feeling nervous.  But I think I prepare my match much better than I did in the first round because I talked to Carlos yesterday, then I was feeling more relaxed.  I've been very focused in the practice, from the first ball to the end of the practice.  I think it's very important for myself.  I was nervous before the match, but I took it in the positive way, and it worked.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like at this point in your career you need tough matches early on to get yourself ready for the second week or is just playing well the most important thing?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think that in the past it proved when I had tough matches, especially in the first round, it helped me a lot, because I knew from the beginning of the tournament I had to change the way I was playing.  And that's what I did here.  That's good because I know that everything can happen, even if you are in the first round or the quarters doesn't mean anything against any player.  So it's good sign for me.  
 
Q.  What do you think your best characteristic is?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think, you know, probably I'm very quick on the court, so I can run all over the court right now.  I feel so good, so comfortable.  When I'm not so nervous, yeah, I'm so quick.  So I think that the other players don't like it too much.  Then I can be powerful when I want.  So technically I still have many things to learn and to improve in my game, again in my serve, maybe my forehand.  But I'm working on it very hard right now.  I think I'm a complete player.  I don't have any bad part in my game.  That's good.  
 
Q.  On a personal level, a lot champions have things about them personally that help with their tennis.  What is it about you personally that makes you such a good player?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think that, you know, in my private life, I'm so happy right now.  It helped me a lot to do what I did in the last few months.  Because when I'm going on the court, I'm not afraid any more to lose.  I mean, it doesn't mean anything.  I really enjoy my game right now.  So a lot of things change in the last few months.  I'm a different person right now.  I think you can see it.  A lot of people can see it.  That's big difference for me from last year. 
 
Q.  There's a lot of champions who are coming back to the US Open.  They come back to tennis.  Connors, Chris Evert will be back here next week to celebrate.  Where do you see yourself in 20 years?  Do you see yourself involved in the game or at home with children?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I have no idea.  I'll have a family, for sure.  I want children.  It's very hard right now to make any plan because I always said I want to have a long career.  But I don't know.  In seven, eight, 10 years, I don't know where I'm going to be.  I'm sure I'll be in Belgium.  I love my country so much. I want to have a family for sure.  But when I'm thinking in 10 years my big passion, what I love so much in my life is going to be over, it makes me afraid a little bit and scared because I will be only 30 years old.  But I have my husband, and I'll have children later, so that's good.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT