US OPEN
August 26, 2003
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine. 


Q.  You said on Sunday you didn't feel like the favorite here.  How do you feel?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I still say the same thing.  The first match is always tough, especially in Grand Slams, so I knew it.  I think that's normal situation.  No, I'm not the biggest favorite here, for sure. 

Q.  Do you think there's a feeling among the women that because Serena and Venus aren't here, there's a big opportunity, maybe not for you?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  For a lot of players, it's a big opportunity for a lot of players.  A lot of players can win this tournament.  You know, after the first match at the French Open, I think that anyone said I was going to be the biggest favorite of the tournament because I didn't play a good match.  So it's still very early to talk about any player who can win this tournament.  I mean, we'll see in the fourth round, in the quarters, if I have the chance to go there.  It's too early right now.

Q.  Having beaten Serena a couple times this year, do you wish you could face her on this court?  Is there a disappointment you don't have that challenge ahead of you?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You know, I'm just try to stay focused on my next match.  I try to forget about everything else because Serena is not here.  That's not the fault of anybody.  I mean, she's injured.  It's really bad for her, first, and for the tournament, and for all the players.  For sure, we want a very high level of tennis.  But I think we'll have a high level of tennis in this tournament.  I hope so.  That's okay.  We have to fight every day, in every match, even if Serena is not here.  I'm not afraid to play Serena on hard court anymore because I feel more confident right now.  But probably she always played her best tennis here at the US Open.

Q.  Do you like all the buzz about the Belgians?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I don't have to like or don't like that.  It's like this.  I mean, that's the situation right now.  I think the Williams dominated so much the tour.  It change a little bit.  They're injured, both of them.  Kim and me played well in the last few months.  But, I mean, it's normal that you talking, you guys, a lot about us.  I totally understand it.  Kim is No.  1.  I'm No.  3.  I understand. 

Q.  Were you looking forward to this rematch with Kapros after what happened the first time you played her?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I try to forget what happened last year at the French Open.  I was sick, so I was totally different.  It's just I just want to say that a first round is never easy, especially against a qualifier who played three matches before playing the first round in the main draw.  So, you know, I think it's normal what happened today.  When I had to play, I did it.  She played a good match - very, very good.  That's okay.  I'm in the second round, that's the most important thing.

Q.  Americans are very big on what we call "scouting" the next opponent.  A coach will go out and look at the player's next opponent, see how she's playing. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  So Carlos is maybe American then (smiling).  He's doing it.

Q.  How much does Carlos do scouting for you, even with players that you played before?  Do you sit down before a match and have a conversation about what that player can do?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  For sure, every match is different.  In every tournament, Carlos is going to see my next opponent, for sure.  That's his job.  He's doing it perfectly.  So he has to give me, yeah, the right things to prepare my match.  He always did.  I think a lot of coaches are doing that.  That's better for the players.

Q.  How much time do you spend particularly before a very important match talking about your next opponent?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think we spend more time after the matches, like today probably we're going to talk about this match.  Then we going to prepare tomorrow the next match, a little bit during the practice.  But before the match, we don't sit for half an hour talking about this.  It takes two minutes.  Just remind me what I have to do.  I know a lot of players pretty good, so Carlos just have to give me a few things just to prepare my match. 

Q.  What kind of training do you do to minimize your injuries?  You keep yourself in pretty good shape year-round. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I hope so.  I mean, you never know.  Injuries can come at any time, for anybody.  At the level where we play right now, it's very tough.  I just decided this year that I didn't play three tournaments in a row.  I think that was a good decision because I've been physically very fresh in every tournament.  Okay, I work very hard last December, then I went back to Saddle Brook in March for three weeks, then a little bit in July right now, a little preparation for the end of the season.  I think you have to take your time sometimes, take two or three weeks during the year, work physically a little bit harder, be prepared for the next tournaments.

Q.  Is your strength, personal physical strength, after the period you spent in the off-season, getting stronger?  Is it where you want it to be or do you want to get even stronger?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, I think I want to stay like I am, because I have different game from the other players.  I'll never be powerful like them.  But I know I have to work hard every day.  I'm not hundred percent physically right now.  I'll be maybe in a year and a half at my best level physically.  It's never over.  I mean, you have to start every day, work very hard, because the other players are not waiting for you.  You have to prepare the best as you can.

Q.  How much bigger are you hitting your serve now than before you went into this week?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I wasn't able to serve at this speed, yeah, a year ago.  Pat and me, we decided we had to do a lot of weights, we had to do a lot of running.  I'm feeling much more confident right now.  We can see it on my serve, for sure.

Q.  Do you think your serve is consistently five miles an hour faster?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Probably more.

Q.  Ten?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Probably.

Q.  Is it difficult to adjust to someone who serves like she did?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's very, very difficult, yeah.  I think it's not easy at all for any players because it's so slow.  I'm not used to it on the tour because, I mean, women start to serve very, very fast right now - on the second serve, too.  I have the same problem with Dementieva, who has a second serve a little bit like Kapros.  Especially when it was windy like today, when you have the wind behind you, it's not easy.  So probably I had to go a little bit more return and volley.  I did it sometimes.  It was working.  But it wasn't easy. 

Q.  You didn't seem to punish the second serve as much as you could. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I didn't understand. 

Q.  You didn't seem to punish her second serve. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, probably.  I totally agree. 

Q.  Were you being careful?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Like I said, it's not easy against this kind of serve.  We're not used to play against players who serve at 60, 65 miles an hour on the second serve.  It's not usual.  It takes a little bit of time. 

Q.  Do you think it changed the momentum midway through the first set when you started coming into the net?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, on the important points, I did what I had to do.  I came to the net.  I served good on the important points.  That's fine.  It's enough to win the match.  I know I'll have to play better next round.  I don't know who I play, but I'll have to. 

Q.  Do you feel the high expectations of the media, public?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I feel my life have changed, for sure, since the French Open.  And I understand it perfectly.  That's normal.  Tennis life, being a professional tennis player, is not only being on the court and hit balls.  That's what I prefer, but I have many things around it I have to do.  That's my job; it's part of my life.  The pressure is there all the time.  The media, you always going to be there.  That's why tennis, women's tennis, is so strong right now.  I mean, I'm very happy when I'm on the court, but I'm very happy off the court right now.  That's very important. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT