WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2003
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Can we have questions for Justine Henin -Hardenne.


Q..  What do you attribute the outcome of this match to?  Is it the high level or surface?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think, you know, I had really bad start in the match.  I started the match on the wrong way.  But Serena played good match.  I mean, she was very solid.  She served well.  She returned well, too.  She was really aggressive in the point.  Much better than me.  So she was just too good today, and I didn't play my best tennis for sure.  I was getting nervous little bit at the beginning of the match, and she just deserved it. 

Q..  Had nothing to do with the surface? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, I think that, you know, playing Serena here, it's harder than playing her on clay court because, for sure, when she's serving like that, it's very hard to break.  But I didn't serve as good as I did in the  -- at the beginning of the tournament, and in the last matches.  So, I mean, it's hard when you're not 100 percents to beat Serena - especially here at Wimbledon. 

Q..  You said you were going to be more aggressive. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I had to.  Yeah.

Q..  It didn't really work. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Uh-hmm, yeah.  I mean, I had to, but it was tough.  You know, when I get in three games of the first  four games I got game points and couldn't finish this game, so it's very hard after to compete then because she was in confidence and she was playing really well.   For sure I couldn't be in the court like I wanted to be.  I did, yeah, unforced errors in the important moments, and she just tried to play point after point, stay in the match, and it worked good for her.

Q..  Could you imagine either of the other semifinalists beating her in the final?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Sorry? 

Q..  Can you imagine either of the other two semifinalists beating her? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think, you know, everybody can win this tournament now.  But it's gonna be a tough mission for the other player, for sure.  Because she wants so much to stay No. 1 in the world, I think, and she want to win this tournament.  I think that she'll give everything for it, so it's gonna be a hard match  - but for both of the players. 

Q..  Someone just said in the last press conference that you told your coach you didn't admit the hand-raising incident because Serena is arrogant and haughty. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Why are you coming back all the time with what happened in Paris?  We are here at Wimbledon.  You know, when I talk with my coach, it's nothing to do with that.  We didn't talk about this problem.  So, I mean, I don't understand your question, really. 

Q..  Someone quoted your coach as saying that  --

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Someone is wrong. 

Q..  So your coach didn't say that? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah. 

Q..  You played a lot of tennis in the last couple months.  Do you get to take a week now and relax, enjoy?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I mean, it's  -- lot of things happen in the first six months of the year, especially in the last few weeks.  So, I mean, next week, it's gonna be a week off for myself, no tennis.  I'll work physically, but no tennis racquets.  I think it's gonna be a good break.  For sure I need it, because I played a lot in the last weeks and I didn't have the time to get a break after the French Open because I had to prepare for Wimbledon.  So I think it's gonna be good for me next week. 

Q..  There was a sense at times during this match that whatever you would do, she could still overpower. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah.

Q..  What is that like, to be on the other side while that's going on?  Is Serena different from everybody else in that respect? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I mean, yeah, sometimes she's playing like this and sometimes she's doing a lot of mistakes.  It depends.  It was a good day for her today and I was sometimes coming to the net really good and she had some great passing shots.  I didn't do enough, and especially at the beginning of the match.  Maybe she saw I was a little bit nervous, too, and she didn't miss a lot of things, you know.  All she tried was in the court and she served so good.  So it's true that it's a bit frustrating, because, you know, when you cannot do anything, it's hard. 

Q..  Much has been written and speculated about what Serena feels about Justine and vice versa.  In your mind, what is the relationship between the two of you?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think that, you know, we just two players and we all want the same thing, is winning a lot of matches.  But, I mean, we don't have any problem between each other.  And, you know, the past is the past, and we never live with that.  So, I mean, I think that we both very professional and, you know, we'll have to play a lot of time against each other and it's good if we can get a good relationship, and it's like this right now.

Q..  Are you glad that all the talking is over about what happens when you meet after the French Open? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, because, you know, it's hard sometimes when you won a Grand Slam.  Everybody's talking about what happened at one point of the tournament.  Sometimes it's hard to accept that because you know what I did was great and I played so good tennis at the French Open.  And everybody  -- maybe everybody forget this and just talk about what happened at 4-2 in the third set against Serena.  I think it's wrong, and I think it's good to remember that it was great match.  And I think that Serena and me, we know that.  It's good for women's tennis. 

Q..  It was a great match, no doubt.  Do you have any regrets? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No regrets at all. 

Q..  Isn't it important for tennis to have rivalries and to have these controversies? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You know, you like to make the controversy; we don't like it.  But, okay, I understand sometimes it's your job and I totally agree with that.  But I'm not the player  -- I'm not a person who like to live with that kind of things because I think it's really stupid.  There are many things that are more important in life than one point in a match.  And I know that because I live very hard things in my life.  So, you know, it doesn't matter and I don't mind about that right now.

Q..  How would you assess  -- I know you probably wanted to obviously win Wimbledon, but given that you came in with the injury, overall, are you satisfied with your tournament here?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I didn't know if I could play this tournament, and, you know, after the French Open, I get again in the semifinal here.  So the matches I had to win, I won them.  But, yeah, I'm sad a little bit that I lost today.  It's normal because I think that I wasn't able to compete 100 percents because maybe I was a little bit nervous and because she played so well, I have to say that.  But, you know, when you're in the semifinal of a Grand Slam and you always want to go until the end of the tournament.  But it's good result for sure. 

Q..  Do you think Serena can challenge you again to rise?  They seem to be dragging the other girls up to their level all the time.

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think today that she had a high level of tennis, for sure.  I think she wanted so much to win this match, and she probably will try to do her best to win the tournament.  But I think she just proved that she's No. 1 in the world.  And especially on the fast surfaces, she's very tough to beat.  So we'll see. 

Q..  Our job here is to follow up on the different issues in the competition. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Uh-hmm.

Q..  I don't mean to be difficult.  But Carlos did tell the New York Times that he felt, in France, that against any other player, she would have replayed the point.  Could you comment on that, what your feelings are. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You said to be  -- I mean, I don't want to talk anymore about what happened in Paris, because, you know, it's very far from now.  I think that you making great things about nothing.  And it's really stupid.  And I mean, I think it's enough for myself right now. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT