WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2003
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Good evening, Ladies and Gentlemen.  Justine Henin-Hardenne.  
 
 
Q.  You played that match beautifully.  Do you feel you're peaking again at the right time?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think I played much, much better than I did in the last matches.  It was already better yesterday against Mary.  But today I knew that I had to be focused because it could be a dangerous match for myself.  I played really good, very aggressive, served well, tried to be aggressive on the return, and I think I played tactically perfectly.  So it's good for myself.   
 
Q.  Are you completely free of discomfort now from that left hand?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think, yeah, almost 100 percents for sure.  When I am playing, I am getting used to the tape.  I try to forget this.  It's just still a little bit sore when I'm not playing, but not during the game.  
 
Q.  It looked as though you were just as good a grass court player as a clay court player today.
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think, you know, it's true that I'm playing good on grass.  I was in the final two years ago, in the semis last year, semis again this year again.  So for sure it's a surface I like to play on because it's very specific.  You know, I think that my game is good for the grass.  But I agree, too, that maybe clay is better for myself because I have more time to organize my game, to have good defense.  But when I play tactically good, I think that the grass is maybe my best surface.  
 
Q.  What can you say about Kuznetsova?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think she's a young player, but she's coming very strong on the tour.  I think that we'll talk about her in the next years because she has a high level of tennis, she's very complete, and she's nice person, too.  So I think she's gonna improve for sure in the next months.  And she's still very young, she's only 18.  So I think that we'll see her in the top very, very soon.  
 
Q.  Is one of the reasons why you decided to play so aggressively today because you know in your next match it's gonna be so hard to play defense, especially on grass against Serena?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I just try to build match after match, you know.  Probably my next match is gonna be, you know, a hard match.  I knew that I have to build this a little bit in my preview matches.  So today I just try to be very aggressive, to be in the court, and just try to go a little bit more often to the net.  I couldn't because she did so many mistakes, you know, on important points.  But I think it's true, I was thinking maybe about the semifinal and say, "Okay, if you want to be aggressive against a player like Serena, you'll have to be aggressive against a player like Kuznetsova."  
 
Q.  You seemed pumped up today and excited a lot.  Are you very excited about the semifinal?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You know, it's gonna be another match, another semifinal.  I just want to say I'm really happy to be again in the semifinal, especially after the French Open because the break was very, very short.  And I think that mentally and physically, I proved that I'm good right now.  And, you know, I was so motivated today.  Just because I know that from the first point until the end, I have to be aggressive, I want to be focus, and I'll try to have the same attitude in the next match. 
 
Q.  Now all three wins you've had against Serena have been on clay courts.  Sometimes on fast clay courts.  Talk about the difference you'll have to face on Thursday and some of the things you'll have to do that you might, you know, not have been able to do at Roland Garros?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I think is gonna be a different match, for sure.  Because she likes the grass.  I like it, too.  But, you know, her power is very hard for myself on grass, on the fast surfaces.  So probably is gonna be more difficult for myself than in the Roland Garros or in Charleston or in Berlin for sure.  I agree with that.  The only problem is that I'll have to be in the court, I'll have to play my game and try to be aggressive and to go to the net.  The serve and the return will be so important.  So, you know, I just try to be focus on that, and I think that Serena is gonna play good match for sure, because she's gonna be very, very motivated, and I know that.  But I'm pretty excited about that.  It's gonna be, I hope, a great semifinal. 
 
Q.  How do you keep the same level of motivation when you know she's going to go into this match, after what happened in the Paris, being so motivated, wanting to win it more than anything in the world, but your own level of motivation, can you equal that?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I think it's going up also.  I mean, when you have the chance to play semifinal in Grand Slam and here at Wimbledon, you're very lucky, I mean.  And you work so hard for this, so you have to enjoy it, and you have to be motivated.  And all the players are.  All the players want to win this kind of tournament.  So I'm very happy because after the French Open, I keep my motivation 100 percents, and I think it was a good test for myself coming back here.  So, you know, on Thursday I'll go on the court and try to win this match, even if I know that it's gonna be a very difficult mission.  
 
Q.  Does Serena have the best serve in women's tennis, or is it somebody else?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's hard to say.  I think that Venus is serving pretty well, too, especially on grass court.  But I think they have, both of them, the best serves on the women's tennis, yeah.  
 
Q.  After what happened in Paris between you two, you have a long career, both of you, ahead of you, do you think there will ever come a day when you'll be somewhat friendly, or do you think it will be professional and a little bit cold?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think we're professional enough to do this.  You know, there is no problem between each other.  I think half an hour ago we just talked for a minute in the locker room, not about tennis, but if they want to play doubles tomorrow.  I don't know.  I mean, we just professional, we colleagues, and I think it's better like this.  I mean, we probably are gonna have a long career together.  It's better if we can have this kind of relationship. 
 
Q.  So no negative feelings on your part at all?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Not at all, not at all.   
 
Q.  What do you think it means for a player to go from clay, such a slow surface, to grass, such a fast surface, and to win the big tournaments back-to-back?  What kind of accomplishment is that?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think it has to be great.  I'd like to feel it one day.  It's just amazing, you know.  I had the chance to feel this at the French Open, and it's a great feeling.  So, I mean, players who win the French and then Wimbledon, like Serena did last year, it has to be great.  Because two weeks after, being 100 percents and beat all these top players, I think it's very hard, and she did it.  And I hope one day I will do it, too.  It has to be great. 
 
Q.  You're obviously playing with more confidence than Kim.  Do you give Kim a real chance against Venus or do you think she still maybe is a year or so away from breaking through like that?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Everybody now has their chances to go to the final and win a tournament.  I think for Kim and for me it's gonna be difficult for sure.  I think that Venus is serving well and you know Kim had some problems in the first set today, but played well after.  So I think that she's gonna be all right on Thursday.  And for sure it's gonna be hard, like my match, but we'll try to give 100 percents and we will see what's gonna happen.  
 
Q.  Do you detect any difference between the courts now and how they were two years ago? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, I think they're pretty similar, you know.  It's fun playing on grass, you know.  It's only three or four weeks in the year.  I will enjoy it.  And here, the tournament is great and I think the courts are pretty good this year. 
 
Q.  Do you have any explanation for the success of the Russian girls, so many of them? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think they have good mentalities, they're great fighters, they're very young.  They won a lot of victories.  I think they're really nice.  It's great for Russia to have all these players.   
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT