WIMBLEDON
June 30, 2003
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Ladies and Gentlemen, Justine Henin-Hardenne.  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  Seemed to be very easy for you out there today. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think it was a good test for myself, you know. Playing Mary Pierce on grass court is not easy.  I just had to stay focused on every point because she's hitting the ball very hard.  She can do a lot of mistakes.  I had to be very focus.  Yeah, I broke twice in the first, once in the second.  It's a good job. 
 
Q.  Mary Pierce would appear to have a lot more power than you, and presumably if you were to go out and play the Williams sisters, the same would be said there.  You can handle yourself?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think I am quick on the court, that's very important on grass.  I can be powerful when I want.  So the power is not the most important thing.  It's important on grass, I agree.  But the serve and return is very important.  So I just try to work on it and, you know, just have to play point after point. 
 
Q.  When there is that debate about bulking up and going to the gym, do you laugh at that, because it doesn't make any difference, does it?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I did a lot of this work.  I didn't change a lot.  But I can feel it on the court.  I'm much more stronger than I was last year.  It helps me in difficult situations on the court.  So I think that I improved a lot in this part of my game, and it's maybe the key of my results, too. 
 
Q.  On grass does it take longer to get your rhythm started at the beginning of a match?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, it's very hard.  I mean, you have to be focus on every point.  If you're not, the match can be very quick and you can lose games very quickly.  So, I mean, you have to be, from the first point to the end, very careful about everything and just try to stay very aggressive.  And that's what I did today.  I'm pretty happy. 
 
Q.  When you were working with Pat recently in Florida, what was the most painful moment of your workouts? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Everything (smiling).  No, when I was running was the most difficult, you know.  I did a lot of 200 meters, 400 meters, and it was so hard.  I mean, I knew  -- I thought I knew what it was, working hard.  Then I met Pat and I said I wasn't doing anything. 
 
Q.  Did you talk or work at all with his partner Jim?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, not at all.  I heard a lot about him, and Pat worked with him for a long time.  But never met him, unfortunately. 
 
Q.  You think the workouts, have they helped you significantly, do you think?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE: I think that the workout with Pat helped me mentally, for sure.  I think that's the big part of my game that changed in the last few months.  So probably there is a combination between the physical part and the mental part. 
 
Q.  You're now a match away from perhaps another clash with Serena.  There's been a lot of talk about the French Open.
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Uh-hmm. 
 
Q.  When you look back, do you feel happy with the way that match went?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I mean, you know, it's very far from now.  Wimbledon is another tournament.  You know, I just try to stay focus on my quarterfinal now.  It's still very early to talk about any semifinal against Serena because she is going to have a tough match and I'm gonna have a tough match.  And I think we're professional enough to forget what happened there.  We don't have any problems between each other.  I think that it's very far away from here. 
 
Q.  Her father said this morning on TV that if he'd been watching he would have come down on court and yelled at you from the French Open.  So just...
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I didn't understand the question.  
 
Q.  Richard Williams said that he would  -- got very angry when he watched that match. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Oh, I mean, he can do any comments.  I really don't mind about Richard Williams.  
 
Q.  Very impressive performances today by very many of the ladies as you've moved on now.  Straight sets victories.  Venus is looking good, Serena, Jennifer, you, Kim.  What does that say about the state of women's tennis and the top five or six of you in the world?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think it's great for everybody.  I mean, it's so much important for everybody to have idols.  They always at the end of the tournament.  That's very important.  You see that, yeah, in the Top 5, in the Top 10, you have very, very strong players.  Everybody can win this tournament.  It's hard at this point.  You can get surprises at sometimes.  You never know.  It's true that on grass court, usually the favorites are at the end of the tournament, and I think it's good for women's tennis. 
 
Q.  Do you think on grass that there is a gulf developing between you and Kim and the rest of the Top 10?  You seem to be up there with the Williams sisters, but do you feel there is perhaps a gulf between you and the other players?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think the Williams sisters are very, very strong on grass court.  Probably it's their best surface because they're so powerful and they're very strong.  Kim is playing well this year, but you have still Davenport, Capriati in the draw.  They are two players, too.  Like I said, everybody can win this tournament.  For sure Venus and Serena are still the favorites this year.  
 
Q.  You've said obviously that winning at Roland Garros was a dream come true. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Uh-hmm.  
 
Q.  As it's now been two, three weeks or so, what have you been saying to yourself about, "Wow, I did it"?  How do you give yourself your own self-satisfaction within your own thoughts?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's big satisfaction, for sure.  But now I start to realize what happen.  But, you know, to be honest, it's very far from now.  It's not that I forgot it, but I just try to make other goals for myself.  It's so much important to be focus on something else.  You don't live with the past.  I mean, I won the French Open.  It's great.  It's my first Grand Slam title.  It was probably the biggest moment of my career, but it's not everything.  Life continues.  Here I am at Wimbledon.  I want to win this next match.  That's the most important for myself.  But it give another sense to my career, I'm more confident in myself for sure.  
 
Q.  You can possibly play Maria Sharapova, the Russian.  Can you tell us if you've assessed her game, what you think of her?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I mean, we don't have the result yet.  But, you know, it's just gonna be another match.  If it's Sharapova or Kuznetsova, it's going to be a hard match against a young player who will have nothing to lose.  I will be the favorite on paper, but on the court it's gonna be different.  They're playing, both of them, very well here in Wimbledon, so I'll have to be focus and just play my game, a solid game, like I do from the beginning of the tournament. 
 
Q.  What I was asking is what you think of her as a player. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You know, I never watch her matches.  I just try to stay focus on myself.  I just know that she's young, she's hitting hard the ball, everybody's looking at her and she's coming very strong on the tour.  But, I mean, I just have to stay focus on myself if I want to win this match, you know?  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT