AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 23, 2003
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine. 


Q.  Do you think after the marathon match with Lindsay Davenport, you just ran out of gas today?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  For sure, I wasn't fresh like I could be if I didn't have this match.  But, I mean, that's not the reason.  I think that Venus played much more aggressive than me.  She returned well, she served good.  You know, she came more often than me to the net.  She was really aggressive.  So nothing to say. 

Q.  Do you think that's the best she's played against you in all your matches?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's hard to say.  I mean, you know, she just came on the court to win the match, and she played a good - very good - match, especially on the return, because she didn't give me a lot of points, she didn't do a lot of mistakes on the return.  I didn't put enough pressure on her.  But she played a good match, yeah.

Q.  What will it take for you and the other girls to catch up with the Williams sisters?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's always the same question.  I will answer that it's tough, that it's going to be hard.  But, okay, we just have to go on the court and try to do our best and try to win the matches.  But they are No.  1, No. 2 because they won a lot and they're very strong. 

Q.  Something specifically you have to do next time, because now you've lost six or seven in a row to Venus?  Is there something you feel you have to change?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I have to play more aggressive against these kind of player, but it's hard when they're playing like this way.  I know what I have to do, but it's not always easy against, I mean, these strong players.  So I have to keep continue.  I did great tournament, and I was again the semifinal.  So I think it's important.  I still have to work like this. 

Q.  Are you saying it will take a new generation of players, younger, to catch up with them?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I don't know.  I have no idea.  I mean, okay, Venus is again in the final of a Grand Slam, so it means that she's playing well.  I don't have the answer if it's going to change or no.  We will see in the future if they're going to lose more matches and if we can change the situation.  But it's a big deal. 

Q.  Were you feeling your legs at all out there today?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, it's all right.  It's just my shoulder was hurting at the end of the match.  It started to be hard for me to serve, and generally tired.  Now the tournament is over and I need good rest, for sure. 

Q.  What will you do?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I go back home and I will take two weeks without tournament, so it's going to help. 

Q.  Are you more satisfied now after this tournament?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, because I started the year much better than I did last year.  I was in the semis in Sydney, in the semis here, and I played a good tennis.  It's just that today there was a better player than me in front of me. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT