AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2003
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine.  
 
 
Q.  Do you have any tiredness left over from the Davenport match?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, for sure, I'm very tired.  I started to feel better after the first two games because, you know, it's for sure very hard to start a match when you played a match like I did two days ago.  Yesterday I had to withdrew from the double.  I couldn't practice.  I didn't sleep very well in the last two days.  I mean, I think it was normal, the beginning of the match.  But after that I did good things.  I'm pretty happy that I won 6-2, 6-2, in this kind of match. 
 
Q.  How important was it for you to get on and off quickly, given what had happened before?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's very hard because on the paper, you know, Virginia, she's 65, and Lindsay, she was the great test for me in this tournament in the fourth round.  It was hard after just to take my responsibilities and go in this quarterfinal because I was tired, and then win the match.  But I think I had good recovery.  You know, when you win in two sets like this, you can be happy because you are in the semifinal of a Grand Slam.  So that's very good. 
 
Q.  The injury report yesterday had you at 75% ability to play.  Was there any doubt about you playing the match? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yesterday, you know, I was in very bad shape.  I mean, I had  -- I couldn't practice at all.  I asked the doctor and to the trainers, but they didn't want me to hit because I was very down.  I said, "Okay, I'm going to see tomorrow."  But I was sure I was going to be better today than yesterday, for sure, because I slept a little bit better last night, and I had a lot of massage.  When you are in the quarters, you want to give 100%, go on the court to win the match.  That's what I did, and that's what was most important. 
 
Q.  What was your main problem, was it dehydration or just general tiredness, or your legs?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, maybe I didn't drink enough during the match.  Maybe it's one of the reason.  The other reason is that you see how I had to run during the match, a lot of rallies.  It was really long match.  I think it's normal in this kind of situation, a lot of tension, and physically it's hard.  But I worked very hard physically last December.  I'm ready to play these kind of matches.  It's just that I was also nervous in the second set to win the match.  So it helped also for the cramps and everything. 
 
Q.  When you practiced this morning, you had strapping on your lower leg. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yes, it was very tight.  It was prevention.  But I took it off because I couldn't move like I wanted.  Then finally my legs are not so sore tonight.  It feels much better than this morning.  I was a bit nervous this morning at the practice because, you know, I was very tired and I didn't feel the ball very good.  But then in the match, it was much better. 
 
Q.  Have you still got blisters?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, it's much better.  But, you know, it's cooler now, and the weather changed, so it helps, too.  My foot was okay. 
 
Q.  You meet Williams in the next round.  You've lost the last six times.  How are you going to change your approach?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  But I think I always played well against Venus.  The last match was hard.  In Wimbledon, it was 6-2, 6-3, or 6-3, 6-2, because she played unbelievable on grass courts.  But we played a lot of tough matches together, especially on clay court, hard court, too.  But I like playing her.  I mean, I'm in the semis.  I will have everything to win and nothing to lose in this match.  But she's in confidence.  She's playing well.  She's a great champion.  I will go on the court to win the match.  I believe in my chances because I have been strong in this tournament.  We will see on Thursday what's going to happen.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT