AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 15, 2003
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine. 


Q.  You played an almost faultless first set.  Was it difficult to keep your concentration in the second?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, it was hard because, I mean, I played really well in the first set and didn't do a lot of mistakes.  You know, it's hard to stay focused because there weren't a lot of rallies.  It was difficult situation.  But, you know, it's 6-Love, 6-1, so it's good.

Q.  When she was having some more of her extravagant problems with her serve, what was going through your mind?  "How terrible for her"? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, I just tried to stay focused on myself and say, "Okay, go for the return."  For sure, it was hard sometimes because it was a very slow serve, a lot of double-faults.  Sometimes it was just, yeah, amazing.  But I just tried to stay focused on myself and just play my game. 

Q.  How much improvement do you think there's been in your game over the last 12 months?  It looks considerably sharper than it was then. 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I think I worked very hard last December.  Especially physically, I feel stronger, and I improve my serve, for sure, and many things in my game are much better than one year ago.  But that's normal, you know.  I worked very hard.  You never know what can happen, but I improve my game a lot. 

Q.  Last time you played Anna here, you said it was very difficult with all the distractions and things that she brings to the court.  Any of that similar stuff this year?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think it's still the same situation because it didn't change at all.  I mean, just from my point, I think I've been more focused this time and just forgot about everything about her.  And, you know, she's a player between 30 and 40, so it was a player in front of me and I just had to win the match.  That was the only thing that count for me.

Q.  Serena Williams was saying the other day that the tour should finish around the US Open, that it's too long, too many matches.  How do you feel physically and what are your thoughts on the way the tour is at this stage?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  For sure, the break is very short.  I mean, when we finish mid of November and we have to start the first week of January, it's hard.  If you want to have a good break, because you need some rest, then have good preparation, too, to be ready for the Australian Open, it's hard.  I mean, you have only a couple of weeks.  But I think the US Open is early to stop the season.  I don't know.  I think if the Australian Open can be a little bit later, I think it's good for everybody.  But I know it's hard for the WTA also because the calendar is very full, and women's tennis is doing well now.  So it's a hard decision.

Q.  Do you come here as rested as you'd like?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I mean, you know, I've been injured after The Championships, so I've been forced to take four weeks off of tennis.  But physically I stopped for two weeks.  I went on holiday.  I had good preparation for five weeks.  But, you know, it's only my third or fourth year on the tour.  Maybe in a couple of years, I will not say the same thing.

Q.  Would you put the injuries down to being asked to play too much?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, the break is very short, or you don't have enough rest or you don't have good preparation enough.  So it's hard.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT