adidas International
January 10, 2003
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.


Q.  That was such a high -quality match.  It's too bad someone has to lose.

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I'm just disappointed because I had so many chances in this match, and the score was a bit hard when we see the level we played.  I mean, it's just a few points on the important points.  Kim played more consistent than me.  I did some mistakes on the important points.  I had three times my chances to break in the second set.  In the first set, I was up 40-15 on my serve, 30-love, lost the two games.  So just the important points made the difference today.  But the level was high, and we played a good match. 

Q.  When those things happen, what do you tell yourself, just to hang in there?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, for sure.  When you have the No. 4 in the world in front of you, I mean, and you play at this level, okay, you have to do some mistakes.  But she didn't do the mistakes on the important points; I did.  So I just tried to stay positive, and I think I did.  I was close to turn the match in the second set and that was very close, 6-2, 6-3.  But it's not really a justice maybe.  But she played consistently on the important points.

Q.  This must give you a lot of confidence going in to the Australian Open?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I played a good match today.  What can I say about my game?  I think I just talked to my coach, and he said, "Okay, what do you want me to tell you about the match?  It was high level, it's just a few things."  But maybe I have to change a little bit my attitude at the beginning of the tournament when I am practicing.  I care a little bit too much about the way I play in the practice and how the other players are playing.  So I asking a little bit too many questions, and sometimes that makes a difference.  So I don't have to think about this, about the draws, about the other players, and just try to be focus on me.  So I think I have to do more on this part.

Q.  Just relax a bit? 

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah.

Q.  It was very entertaining, that ninth game.  Five matchpoints, you had two breakpoints.  Do you hear the crowd at all when it's that intense?

JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, it was high intensity.  Many games in the second set it was like this.  But like I said, I was very close to turn the match.  If I went to 5-4, I don't know what could happen.  I went for the point.  I lost this point at the net, but, you know, there was a lot of tension at this point in the match, and she had a little bit more experience than me at this moment. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT