HOME DEPOT CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 6, 2002
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Was today an easy victory for you?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think it was a hard first match.  It's always difficult, especially in the tough conditions.  I mean, yeah, it's hard.  We could practice only from yesterday on this court.  It's hard to have good feelings, but I'm pretty happy that I made the quotas.  I won 6-3, 6-3 in straight sets.  Physically, I'm fine.  That's important. 

Q.  How fast is the court playing?

JUSTINE HENIN:  It's strange.  It's not too fast, and sometimes you can feel it's fast.  Sometimes it is so slow, but it's not the same surface as of the last tournaments.  They said it was going to be the same surface, but it's not really similar.  It's hard to have exactly the same surface.  It's difficult when you can practice only once on this court and then come and play a match, and that's why the first match is so difficult to have good feelings.

Q.  Were you feeling comfortable on the court?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I say it was hard because it wasn't so crowded.  I like to play when there are many people in the stadium, so it's hard to find the great motivation.  It was hard to find the energy to play my game, but when I had to play in the second set, I did my game at that point in the match.  That's the most important, that physically and mentally I felt okay.

Q.  After the other night when you guys had to do your fashion show, did that have an effect on you guys?

JUSTINE HENIN:  The what?  

Q.  The night before.  

JUSTINE HENIN:  No, it's great to have these kind of things.  It's good to have also nights like that and to enjoy our time like we did.  It's not only playing on the court, we have many things that are part of the game.  That's important.

Q.  Is the money that's on the line here motivation enough?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I don't see that.  I say we are all very lucky to play the championships.  It's a big chance for us to be here in LA and play these kind of matches, so I don't think at all when I'm on the court about the money.  That's not my first motivation.  I want to win a lot of matches.  That's my only goal.

Q.  Justine, was your strategy today to play very good defense and let her make the errors?

JUSTINE HENIN:  She does the errors.  She either makes mistakes or does winners.  It's hard to find a break.  I had to be careful in my defense.  I did.  I tried to be aggressive on the return when I could.  I don't have any more comments to do about the match.  It was a match and I won it in two sets.

Q.  I don't watch a lot of tennis.  Why do you wear a watch out there?  Are you paid to wear a watch, an endorsement?

JUSTINE HENIN:  No.

Q.  Why do you wear a watch, a wristwatch?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Because I like to wear a watch.  I feel good with a watch.

Q.  Justine, in the quarterfinals you will play Chanda or Kim.  Is there a player you wish to play among these two?

JUSTINE HENIN:   Both of them is going to be a hard match, and they're really playing well on the surface.  I beat Chanda in the last tournament, and Kim I won the last time.  It was a clay court.  She's in a great confidence game.  It's going to be tough.  I believe in my chances.  All matches are difficult and tough, so I will see on Friday what's going to happen.

Q.  Just how tough is it mentally to play Kim, given you are the two biggest athletes from your own country?

JUSTINE HENIN:  It's always a little bit special.  I mean, it's a different match for us than to play another player.  We have to deal with that, because we will have to play for sure many times each other in the future.  We both are young, and for sure in Belgium it's a special match, but we have to deal with that.  I will try to be focused on myself and try to forget the situation.  We are both professional and we know what we have to do and it's always a little bit special.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT