WIMBLEDON
July 4, 2002
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions.  
 
 
Q.  Was Venus just too good today?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think she was too strong, too good.  She didn't do a lot of mistakes.  She didn't let me play.  She was so aggressive, so powerful, so what could I do?  I started good the beginning of the match was fine, but I had to do many rallies to win the point, and that was hard.  So, no, she was simply better than me today, a lot better.  
 
Q.  What are your thoughts on an all-Williams final, that it's hard for sisters to play. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I suppose that it's hard.  I will never be in this situation.  But I suppose that for sisters to play each other, I think it can be difficult.  I understand that.  Yeah, it's hard.  I think they are the No.  1, No. 2 in the world.  That's normal because they are the two best players in the world.  But, okay, it's hard also for the other players because we have to fight a lot but we will continue.  They are No.  1, No. 2, and that's a normal situation.  But I'm playing for myself, and I will just try to continue on the way I did in this tournament.  
 
Q.  How would you compare the respective performances of yourself and hers today compared with last year here?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  With last year?  
 
Q.  Yes. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  We cannot compare these two different situations, you know.  2001 is not this year.  I mean, two different matches.  It was a final Grand Slam, today a semifinal.  She played better today than she did last year. 
 
Q.  That's what I was asking. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I mean, I cannot compare these two situation, because is too different.  She played a great match today, and she's in the final. 
 
Q.  What about your own performance today compared with last year?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I mean, I had nothing to do today.  She didn't let me play.  I tried to do my best.  I tried to go to the net.  I was serving well.  But she did great returns.  So, I mean, I had nothing to do.  
 
Q.  Do you get the feeling that the Williams sisters are pulling away from the rest of the pack, separating themselves?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I think now they are two best players in the world, and we can see it on court.  So, yeah.  
 
Q.  Obviously it's good for the Williams family that they're in many finals and Grand Slams against each other.  What do you think the effect is on tennis and the perceptions of the sport? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think it's difficult and maybe too early to say anything.  But for sure they were both of them US Open, French Open, probably Wimbledon here.  So, yeah, that's good for them.  But I think that maybe the crowd like also to see the other players in different final Grand Slams.  But if they are in the final, that's because they're playing so well.  So, I mean, it's a difficult situation.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT