WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2002
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Shall we start in English.  
 
 
Q.  How pleased were you with that?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Happy to be in the fourth round, that the first week was finally good.  You know, just a victory was the most important today, and I did it.  It's hard to play someone that you don't know.  I didn't know anything from this player.  She was hitting the ball so hard, so it was sometimes difficult to find rhythm.  But it's okay, 6-4, 6-4.  Enough (smiling). 
 
Q.  After you got the break at the start of the second set, she refused to go away, didn't she?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, she did.  Yeah, she started to play better.  I lost a little bit my aggressivity.  Like I said, it's hard when someone is hitting so hard the ball.  You don't have a lot of rallies, so it was sometimes difficult, because it was a winner and then three mistakes.  So it was hard.  But yeah, she gave everything she had.  She had nothing to lose.  It's okay, at 4-All I played better.  That's okay.  
 
Q.  Did you think you were going to three sets again at one time?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  No, I never felt that I could go in three sets.  Everything can happen for sure.  When she broke back at 4-3 to go to 4-All, I stayed calm and said, "Okay, it's 4-All."  
 
Q.  Then it finished very quickly?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  And then it finished very quickly.  I played good at 4-All, just kept my serve.  So that was good. 
 
Q.  Do you think a player like that comes up, it shows the increased strength in the women's game?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, it's hard, qualifier, third one.  It happens more often now.  I didn't know anything about her.  You have to play on the Centre Court against a young player that's coming.  She had nothing to lose.  So, yeah, I think we will see in the next months a lot of these kind of players.  It's going to be more difficult.  
 
Q.  It's not that long ago everyone you played was older than you. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, for sure.  I was in this kind of situation two years ago when I had to play in the French Open against Lindsay.  I lost 7-5 in the third.  That was my first close match against a top player.  A long way since that.  
 
Q.  How do you feel about your prospects for the rest of the tournament now?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Now I will just try, like I said, to be focused on my next round on Monday.  I think Dementieva won.  It's going to be a tough match because, you know, Elena, she's a top player, and she's hitting hard also the ball.  She's in the Top 15.  She's a young player.  She will have nothing to lose.  Especially on grass, she's playing very fast, so it's going to be a difficult match.  
 
Q.  Have you played much before?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I played Dementieva in the Australian Open.  I won in two sets.  It's going to be, for sure, a different match.  Another tournament, a different surface, so I think I will just see on Monday what's going to happen.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT