WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2002
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Justine Henin for you, Ladies and Gentlemen. 


Q.  It all seemed to be going very well when you went 4-3 up in the second set.  What happened after that?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I was going very well until this point of the match.  But like in the tournament last week, I had some problems to finish the match.  Maybe it's because I stopped two weeks without tennis, and then I'm a little bit nervous to finish the matches because I'm very happy just to be close.  So I have to control that.  But finally I happy that in the third I played my game and there were no more match.

Q.  The two weeks you didn't play, were you injured?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I was sick after the French Open, yeah.

Q.  And that problem is gone now?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.  But physically it still had to recover because, I mean, at this level you have to be hundred percent.  So I start to be fine, but it's hard yet to come back on tour. 

Q.  Did you think back to your French Open defeat at all?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I didn't think about this because it's still far away in my head now.  And, you know, I'm here in Wimbledon.  I just try to be focus here.  So maybe before the tournament I was a little bit nervous because I lost first round in the French Open.  But it's like this.  I just have to concentrate on my next round.  My goal today was easy:  it was just to win - and I did it.  That was the most important thing for me today, and I did it. 

Q.  What are your thoughts about the distractions for some women players such as Anna Kournikova, whether that affects their tennis playing?

JUSTINE HENIN:  It's really not my problem.  I mean, every player lives a life like she wants.  And, you know, I think that we are professional tennis players.  Okay, for my part, I try to give hundred percent for tennis.  I mean, I don't have to talk about this because that's really not my problem. 

Q.  Do you sort of resent at all the fact that someone like Anna Kournikova earns so much money from off-court activities when your world ranking is much higher?

JUSTINE HENIN:  No comment about this.  You know, tennis world is many things.  You know, I don't have to say anything because I don't think anything about this.  It's like that.  I just play for myself and I don't mind about what the other players earn.  That's not my problem. 

Q.  Last year at Wimbledon you had one or two matches that were going against you.  You came through those to reach the final.  Doesn't seem to bother you too much if it goes wrong a little bit. 

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I thought of what I did last year before coming here  - because last year I was 7-5, 4-1 against Boogert.  Today was just one set all.  It wasn't the same situation.  But, yeah, I said, "Okay, you can win this match.  That's the most important."  But what I did last year, it's different this year.  You know, it's another tournament.  I'm in the Top 10 for one year already now, and it's a different situation.  I try that I don't think too much about what happened last year and just try to be focused now on my next round.  I have to be positive in every situation.  Just try to win every point. 

Q.  Are you feeling good about the whole Wimbledon thing this year?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I hope so.  I think, like I said, my goal today was to win this match, and now my second one will be the next step.  But it's going to be difficult to do better this year, but I will just try to go as far in the tournament and just try to enjoy my game on court. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT