TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 17, 2002
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine, please.  
 
 
Q.  I want to know how your injury is.
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Oh, it felt good during the match.  From two days already I was a little bit afraid because I felt pain in my knee.  But I played many matches, and I think it's just that I'm a little bit tired.  But it's not  -- that's not a big problem, I think.  Today during the match I didn't feel anything.  The tape helped me.  And I am going to be all right for tomorrow - I hope so.  
 
Q.  What happened at the beginning of the match? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I wasn't really in the match at the beginning.  I was trying to find my game.  And, you know, I never played her, and I didn't know what she was trying to do against me.  And it was difficult in the first three games.  I was sleeping a little bit.  And after that I played a very good game to go to 6-3.  And then difficult to take her serve in the second.  But happy that finally at the end of the match I went to take it.  Sometimes I lost a little bit my aggressivity.  That's why I had some problems to finish.  
 
Q.  Not everybody is able to play two tournaments well in a row.  In your case, it's exactly the opposite.  Why do you think it is that you're still playing so well?  Because you don't want to lose?  You don't want to stop?  What? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Because for sure everybody's asking me, "Okay, there's a Grand Slam in ten days" and...  But when I am on the court, I want to give 100% and just give my best.  I think that all tournaments are important for me.  And once physically I think it's too much, then I stop.  But I feel good on court.  Some players can do that for sure.  I think that a lot of players did it already.  Some lost in the first round because it's always hard to play a tournament after a victory.  But I'm here in Rome, and I just want to be focus here and give my best until the end of the tournament and try to go as far as possible in the tournament.  And, you know, I will have all my time next week to take a rest and to be ready for Roland Garros.  
 
Q.  Have you changed your service action a little bit?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.  I changed again a little bit. 
 
Q.  You seem to be going lower and coming  --
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  What was the reason for that? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think that the reason is that I have not more power, but more rhythm.  So I can push a lot better.  I'm more stable in my legs.  So I think it's a lot better.  And I can see it on court.  And sometimes, you know, I lose it a little bit  - that's normal because it's new.  But now I am not a big girl, and I have to deal with it.  And we know that I will never have a serve like Serena or the best players in the world, but I play with it.  I won a lot of matches with my serve.  And I  --. 
 
Q.  How long  - sorry.  How long since you've had this?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I changed for last time during Fed Cup.  So one months ago.  
 
Q.  One month? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.  
 
Q.  Everybody's asking you about your play compared to the others.  When you win a match, you are more proud about it just because of this, or you have some different feelings because you see some bigger points? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, because, you know, in the Top 10 maybe I'm the only one to be like this.  And so I'm proud of it for sure.  But I'm not thinking about this.  I'm only on court to enjoy my game.  So I try to win.  And I think that for sure it's more important, because it's like this.  But I just enjoy tennis and I want to be on court to win every match if possible. But, no, that's not an important point for me.  
 
Q.  There's a possibility that you'll play Kim in the semifinals.  Assuming it happens, how do you feel about that, a Belgian semifinal? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Like I said a lot of times, it's good to have two players like us in the Top 10.  You know, I am in the semifinal.  If I play Kim, I will have nothing to lose because of the last times I lost.  So she's a tough player.  But we don't know yet who's gonna win today and who will play tomorrow.  I will just try to continue in that way, play my game.  And if it's against Kim, for sure it's always a little bit special.  But I'm here to prepare the next Grand Slam and it's good I have a lot of matches now.  And I will go on court to give 100%, like I said, and we'll see what's gonna happen.  
 
Q.  As we can see, your favorite color is yellow.  Can you talk about your favorite CD, your favorite opponent, your favorite tournament, stuff like that.
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Oh, I think that there are many, many great tournaments.  I like to go to Canada.  I like Montreal.  I think it's my favorite city.  Favorite opponent... Anybody, because there are very tough players.  When I win, I think I'm always happy when I win.  And, you know, there are a lot of great champions on tour, and every match is difficult.  So, no, nothing special.  
 
Q.  Food? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Food... Italian food, for sure (smiling).  
 
Q.  It looks like he's pretty sure your favorite color is yellow.  Is there a reason for the yellow?  Is this true? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I won a lot of matches in yellow now.  So it's new, my new clothes.  But not especially yellow. 
 
Q.  Not from the time you were a child?  I mean, when you were a girl, you saw yellow and immediately you fell very impressed and wanted to have a  --
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  No, no.  No (smiling).  
 
Q.  Is it true that you'd like to give a question to this gentleman, this journalist who asks you questions once in a while?  Today, do you want to give him a question?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  No, nothing.  I have no questions today (smiling).  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT