TENNIS MASTERS SERIES - ROMA
May 15, 2002
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  It is normal to have problems after having won a big tournament like you did.  Is it a question of you are tired, or was it psychological?

JUSTINE HENIN:  It's not a problem to win 7-6, 6-2.  I mean, that's the best important today, to win my first match in this tournament.  So for sure it's hard because, you know, you're happy because you won.  But also you have to be ready for the next tournament.  And I was ready for this.  But different surface, different crowd, different conditions  - it's warmer.  So that's normal that for the first set it's little bit more difficult.  But I'm happy that finally in the second set I found my game and I was confident.  I was in confidence on the court.

Q.  Forty percent of the players lose in the first round after they won a tournament.

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, so that's good for me today.  Yeah, it's always hard.  That's maybe the most difficult thing.  And for sure it happens often.  But today I had the possibility to win and I did.  So that's the most important. 

Q.  Don't you realize it's against the rules of women's tennis to play serve and volley (laughter)?

JUSTINE HENIN:  But today there was maybe one of the key in the first set, that I went to her backhand for sure with my serve and volley.  And I won a lot of points with this.  But it's also my game.  And it's easier to do on the fast clay than it was in Berlin.  It was so heavy, and here different.  But I knew that I could win a lot of points with my serve and volley and her backhand.  At the end, I tried to mix a little bit more because she started to hit.  But, yeah, it's a good thing. 

Q.  She's practicing for Wimbledon, Bud. 


Q.  Is that a huge lift mentally and to your morale to beat Serena?

JUSTINE HENIN:  It was, yeah, a big victory.  But, I mean, if it's Serena or Jennifer or all players, it's always nice to win a tournament like this.  But I prove that with my game I can opposite the strong players.  They are tough players, great champions.  And it's always  -- I have to give 100% and play my best tennis to win this kind of matches.  So, yeah, I was happy because I went to take the match.  It was difficult because I lost some matches like this.  I was -- like in Amelia Island against Venus, I had my chances.  And this time finally I finish the match, and that's the most important. 

Q.  Compared to this time last year, how do you feel your game has developed? 

JUSTINE HENIN:  My game is a lot better, for sure.  And like I said  - and I continue to said  - this year is the most difficult I think because, you know, what I did last year was very good, but I had to confirm it this year.  And it's sometimes hard because the pressure is there.  But, you know, I am more mature now.  And I think that I am almost for one year in the Top 10.  So I took also experience.  But probably my game is a lot better than it was last year for sure.  Because I took experience, because I worked very hard, and because I can play on every surface.  So I think that no compare because it's a lot better. 

Q.  You lost a final against Venus Williams last year.  So you're happy she's out of the tournament?  Your draw now is a good draw, no?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think that in tennis, everything can happen.  And last week I won the tournament against the top seeds, and here it's a lot different today.  I'm going to have a tough match because Kremer is in top form and she's playing very well now.  So I just try to be focus on that match.  And, you know, it's better to be focus on me before thinking about the other players.  Because if I play well, I will go far in the tournament.  But the next match is tomorrow, and I want to be concentrate on this. 

Q.  If you had to play the match of your life, what kind of surface would you choose? 

JUSTINE HENIN:  What kind of surface? 

Q.  Yeah. 

JUSTINE HENIN:  Probably the clay for sure.  That's, I think, my best surface.  Because I growed up on it, and I always played on clay when I was young.  You know, I think that's my favorite one because I have a lot of time to organize my game.  But I think that I will play good also on hard and on grass.  I was in the final of Wimbledon, and I have a good game also for grass.  That's the best thing  - that I am complete player.  But I think that if I have to win one tournament, I think that Roland Garros is the best one for sure. 

Q.  You still remember that semifinal you lost last year?  It was not easy to get through.

JUSTINE HENIN:  Oh, it's already far now.  I think that I don't think any more about this because, you know, you lose and you win and it's tennis, it's like this.  So sometimes I won matches and it was for the other player this kind of situation.  And, no, I don't think anymore about this.  I will try to be focus here first in Rome and then for the French Open.  But for sure it's an important event, but I don't try to put a lot of pressure because, you know, it's one more tournament and I will go there just to do my best. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT