PACIFIC LIFE OPEN
March 10, 2002
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Was this a fairly easy day for you? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  It was easier, for sure.  I mean, I had already one match in my legs.  I think for sure it's easier when you played already.  Today I think I'm happy with my game because I was aggressive and I could keep the rallies, and I didn't do a lot of mistakes.  I mean, I was good in the match.  I won easy.  So that's nice to have a match like this and to have a little bit of rest because for sure I was a lot tired after my two matches on Saturday.  Then for sure for me it's a nice thing today.  
 
Q.  Do you feel like it was an improvement?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.  I think at the beginning the match, it was difficult in the first game.  After that, I found my game.  I found my way.  I was aggressive, but patient also.  So I just played my game.  I served well also.  I was pretty aggressive on the return.  So everything was fine in my game today. 
 
Q.  A lot of people seem to struggle here with the conditions, it being very dry, the balls seem to move through the air quickly.  How is that for you?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think it's fine.  I like these conditions, I like these courts.  It's not so fast.  I think it's a good surface for me.  It wasn't windy today.  For sure it's dry, but, no, that's not a problem.  I think it's the best weather to play tennis. 
 
Q.  You seem to have some pretty vocal fans.  Are people following you around now?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  They are people from Los  Angeles, but Belgian people.  I just met them today.  That was friendly.  For me to have this support, for sure when you play in Australia or United States, you don't have a lot of fans.  But, I mean, today was nice to see that. 
 
Q.  Can you walk the streets of Belgium freely without being recognized these days?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  It's a little bit more difficult for sure than before Wimbledon and the French Open.  I think everything changed.  But I stayed the same person.  I think the people, they see me like a different player, for sure.  You know, that's a dream also for them to meet me, when I'm doing shopping, when I'm going to the restaurants.  But I think I like that.  I like to communicate with my fans.  That's not a big problem.  But it's more difficult for sure, but it's part of my job, and I can understand it. 
 
Q.  So you still like it when people come up to you?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yes, for sure.  You know, I try to live my life like a normal person.  I just do everything.  For sure they come to me.  But I don't mind about that.  
 
Q.  Being famous, being a star, is that something you thought about when you were younger thinking about your tennis career?  Did it occur to you, you would be famous?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  When I was young, it was a dream, that became a reality last year when I was in the Top 10 for the first time in my young career.  I have many things to do if I want to go far in the ranking.  For sure, I'm famous for a lot of people in Belgium.  For a little country like this to have two players in the Top 10, it's unbelievable.  I think there was a dream, and it's a reality now.  I think it's great for a little country like Belgium. 
 
Q.  What do you like to do when you're not playing?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I like to go to the movies.  But I think in tournaments, I just try to take a lot of rest.  For sure, it's difficult, a lot of pressure.  Physically, matches are difficult.  I mean, when I'm in tournament, I take some rest.  When I'm at home, I just try to have time with my friends and family.  I don't see them a lot in the year.  I mean, I just try to keep contact with them.  That's important for me.  
 
Q.  Is this a tournament that you enjoy?  Do you like the area, the surroundings?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I like this tournament.  It's a great organization.  It's a great site.  Indian Wells, it's so nice.  I like to be here.  The weather is perfect.  People are friendly.  So, I mean, that's a great tournament in the year, for sure. 
 
Q.  With Kim out now, you're the favorite on your side of the draw to get to the finals.  Does that put more pressure on you?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  It's a big opportunity.  I didn't think too much about this.  I just tried to keep focus now on my next match.  That will be difficult enough against Hantuchova or Schett.  There are a lot of tough players in the top of the draw.  There's still Dokic and Meghann Shaughnessy, a lot of tough players there.  I have to be concentrate on my next match.  You know, a lot of tough players are here in the tournament, and you have to play good tennis if you want to beat them.  But if I have the possibility to go for sure to the final, I will try to take it.  But I don't think too much about this at this time.  
 
Q.  Some of the big power hitters aren't here.  At your size, is that difficult handling that kind of power?  How do you cope with that?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I can be powerful player also.  I mean, for sure I don't have the same size, and I don't have the same game.  But with my game, I try to opposite their game.  I think everybody has a place on WTA Tour.  I mean, I do everything to beat these kind of player.  For sure it's difficult because they're strong.  It's hard to stay on the baseline and to do a lot of rallies with them.  So I have to play my game, to be aggressive, to go to the net, try to beat these kind of players.  But I don't think about this.  I mean, when I'm on the court, I just want to win, and I do everything with my game to win these match. 
 
Q.  A lot of players will say that it's always harder the second year-round to reproduce what you've done the previous year.  With Roland Garros only about two months away, Wimbledon not that far behind, what are your thoughts on something like that, the pressure that you could be under with all the points you have to defend and reproduce those results from 12 months ago?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I'm here in Indian Wells.  I'm here in this tournament.  The French Open and Wimbledon, it's still far away from here.  But, I mean, if you are in the Top 10, that's your place, and you have to win a lot of matches if you want to keep your ranking, for sure.  If I win a lot of matches now, maybe I will lose in the French or Wimbledon earlier.  I don't know.  It's a possibility.  But, I mean, if I think about that, for surely have a big possibility to lose my points.  I mean, I'm going on the court to win all my matches.  If I win a lot of matches  -- for sure it's not easy to confirm what I did last year, but I think I had a good start of the year in Australia.  I did the final of Antwerp in Belgium.  Here in Indian Wells I feel confident.  So, I mean, I'm not afraid about this.  That's tennis career also, to win and to lose.  But we will see what's going to happen.  If I am in the Top 10, I have to beat a lot of players to keep my ranking.  I just have to play my game and to enjoy also.  That's the best important. 
 
Q.  What is your favorite surface?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  It's hard for me to say that now because I play well on each surface.  I did the final on grass.  But I think my favorite one is clay court.  I mean, I growed up on clay court.  I practiced a lot on.  I feel comfortable on this kind of surface.  So, yeah, for sure red clay is my best surface. 
 
Q.  You recently kind of changed your service motion.  How is the new service working out?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I'm not a big girl, so I try to do this more compact.  I change my movement a little bit.  I think it's better, a lot better now.  I did a great work, especially in December, the last winter in Belgium.  But I still need more time to improve it and to be more regular.  But I'm pretty happy with that way, and I think it's going to be a good shot in my game - not in the next tournaments, but maybe in the next months, next years, all my career.  I'm only 19; I have all my time to work on.  That's what I'm doing now. 
 
Q.  It doesn't cause you any arm discomfort?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  No, no.  Physically I think it's easier for me now.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT