US OPEN
August 31, 2001
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 
 
Q.  Can you talk about playing Serena, what will you have to do to win the match?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  It will be the first time.  I don't know her very well.  I play Venus three times already but never Serena.  I think it's a different game from Venus because Venus can move, I think, a lot better than Serena.  But she's stronger so she can play very fast.  And, you know, she's a tough player.  In the Top 10 everybody can beat everybody.  So it will be a close match and we will see what's gonna happen.  Because I don't know her very well.  
 
Q.  What do you think the difference will be?  Is it going to be mental or is it going to be how you physically match up?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Mentally I have to think that I can beat her for sure.  I have to think that I can be strong also, that I can beat her.  I am good player.  I played well this year.  So I have many chances in this match for sure.  So mentally, I think maybe that will be the key.  Not physically.  I think I'm okay now, and I like to play against the strong players, so it's not a problem for me. So I think in the head I will have to think that I can win this match. 
 
Q.  And you do think you can win this match? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  For sure. 
 
Q.  For sure?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  For sure.  Yes, for sure. 
 
Q.  Even though she's a champion here two years ago?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah. 
 
Q.  She's a very good hardcourt player.
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I said she's a great champion also.  And, you know, she has a lot of experience here, especially here in the US Open because she won two years ago. So for sure it will be difficult match, but I go on the court to win.  If not, I stay in the hotel. 
 
Q.  How are you playing right now?  Are you at the top of your level right now?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  No.  No, because I think when I will have to play against Serena, it's a top player.  She's in the Top 10.  I will have the concentration that I will need to play a good match.  So, you know, today was a little bit difficult because I played a tough match two days ago.  And today was a lot different.  I think that in two days I will be okay to play a good match.  
 
Q.  But you're looking forward to being on the stadium with all those loud fans? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, for sure.  
 
Q.  You like that atmosphere?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  It's not a problem for me.  I don't mind about that.  She's American, she will play with her fans here.  But, okay, when I play in maybe in the French Open, I have the fans with me.  So it's okay. 
 
Q.  Do you like the energy here with all the people yelling and all of that? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Sometimes it's difficult.  It's a lot different from Wimbledon or the French Open.  You know, different crowd.  But I think, "Okay, it's American.  It's one time in the year, so that's okay." 
 
Q.  You're No. 6.  She's No. 10.  Who's the favorite? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  You know, like I said, everybody can beat everybody in the Top 10.  So I never thought about that, because maybe in the ranking I am the favorite, but I think for the court she will be the favorite.  So, no, we would be two persons on the court just to win the match and that will be the best important.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT