US OPEN
August 27, 2001
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine.  
 
 
Q.  You took a very long break after Wimbledon.  Was this to heal up emotionally or physically or both? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Everything is okay now.  I think I had to take a break.  I think I was tired for sure after Wimbledon.  I had to stay at home.  I think I took a break of one week without tennis, and after, I practiced three weeks very hard.  I went to play Toronto the first tournament.  I needed this break.  Now I can feel fit on the court.  So that's okay.  
 
Q.  What does it feel like to be playing in a US Open, apart from the other majors?  Anything particularly special about coming to New  York City and playing in this atmosphere?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  It's nice to come here.  I like this tournament.  I always played well here, especially last year.  It was the first time I was in the fourth round of a Grand Slam.  That was a little bit special.  I love New York.  That's nice to be here.  Not all the year, but once in a year, that's okay.  
 
Q.  Do you like the way the 32 seeds have been  --?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think that's great.  I think it's better.  That's the good way.  
 
Q.  Why so?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Because you know you don't play in the first match a No.  8 against a No.  25.  That's tough matches.  That's not happen in the first one.  I think that's the best thing.  
 
Q.  How do you explain the emergence of Belgian tennis?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  A million times this year (laughter).  I think we have good Federation, good mentality also.  We won a lot of victories.  We won more and more.  I think Federation for me help me a lot to travel and everything.  They are good support.  You know, maybe we'll not have all the time two players like us.  We had Dominique and Sabine.  After, I don't know what's going to happen. 
 
Q.  Can you see it cutting into soccer's popularity?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think tennis is maybe the second sport for sure in Belgium.  Soccer will be always the first one.  I think tennis is more popular now.  People like to watch it on TV for sure.  
 
Q.  What was it like after you got home after Wimbledon?  Did people treat you any differently?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think, yeah, people, they see me like another person, but I stayed the same person.  I think I didn't change at all.  I don't know why I have to change.  I stayed the same.  You know, I just went home.  I was happy to be in my apartment, to live like a normal person.  I think that was important to take this break.  But I didn't do anything special. 
 
Q.  Kim said the other day some people were following her around the store, watching what she was trying on. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  It's not the same.  You can't go to do your shopping like before Wimbledon or everything.  For sure, the people, they see me like a different person.  But I think that's not the best important. 
 
Q.  Do you like that attention you get?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think it's our job.  It's a good sign.  When you lose, anybody is looking for you.  I like the contact with the fans.  I think that's good for the tennis.  
 
Q.  Beginning the year, did you have enough confidence to think that you could have this good of a year?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think I not have the confidence that I have now for sure.  You know, when I was injured last year, it was difficult for me to imagine that one year later I will be six in the world.  I work very hard in the winter.  I went to Australia to improve my game.  I think I did a good beginning of the season.  After that, for sure I took confidence, and everything came.  You know, I wasn't injured during a long time, so that's good.  
 
Q.  What's the key to your beautiful backhand?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think that's natural, you know.  I never worked a lot on my backhand.  It's in me.  When I was young, it was the same.  I worked more on my forehand and my serve.  
 
Q.  What do you think when you get on the court and see Venus or Serena, who are much bigger than you?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I proved already that I can play well against these kind of players.  Last week when I played Venus  -- you know, at Wimbledon I thought I still have a big difference.  But last week was different.  I was on the court.  I wasn't afraid of her power.  I was inside.  I went to the net.  You know, maybe I could win this match.  So I think everybody has her place on the tour.  You have different kind of players.  That's the tennis.  
 
Q.  Since last year, what's the part of your game that has improved the most?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think simply I could play a lot of tournaments since last year.  Mentally I'm stronger, for sure. 
 
Q.  Has Martina Hingis said anything to you about how well you handled these big hitters?  She's had her problems in the past.  She's obviously about the same size as you. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I didn't hear.  
 
Q.  Does Martina Hingis joke with you, talk to you or ask for advice about playing against these big hitters?  You've handled them better than she has lately. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  No, no, we never joke about that. 
 
Q.  How much of it is psychological when you're playing the big hitters?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  You know, for sure I did a good work mentally.  I think it's in me.  I got on the court to win a match.  If it's Venus Williams or Lindsay Davenport or Martina Hingis, the one player in the top hundred, doesn't mind for me.  When we are on the court, we are two persons that want the victory.  I think I have many things in my game to opposite these kind of players.  
 
Q.  Do you have any special friends on the circuit?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think I'm a friend of everybody.  For sure, with the language, sometimes it's easier with the French players, the Belgian players.  I think everybody is friendly on the tour.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT