WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2001
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Are you surprised it was that easy? 

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think that now I can say that I'm so happy to be in the semis.  I had maybe an easy match in the score, but I think I had to play a good match to win so easy.  So I think that I was waiting for more difficult match because she has a lot of experience on grass court.  But I played so fast, she couldn't do anything.

Q.  You're really known for your backhand, but your forehand seemed to be working well today. 

JUSTINE HENIN:  Better today.  Better today.  I think I did a little bit of mistakes on my backhand, but it's okay (smiling). 

Q.  What did you learn in the semis in France that you think you can use to your advantage?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think that now I have a little bit more experience.  I think I will enjoy this moment more than in the French because I'm in the semis.  That's a great result just after the French.  I think that I didn't enjoy enough this moment in the French, so I don't want to do second time this mistakes.  So I just go on the court to enjoy the match.  I will think, "Okay, you in the semis, so enjoy the match, do your best." 

Q.  Are you confident that mentally it will be easier?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think that when you do a semis in a Grand Slam, you win just a tournament after this, you again in another semis, you for sure in confidence.  So I will go on the court to win and do my best. 

Q.  If someone told you at the beginning of the year that you would be in two Grand Slam semifinals this year, what would you have said to them?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I didn't believe him, for sure, because I was 45 at the beginning of the year.  I was 100 one year ago when I played Wimbledon last year.  So everything was so fast.  I played so well this year.  But I think it's the beginning of my young career.  I'm only 19, so I have a lot of years to do my goals and to do far away.  So I keep and I take my time. 

Q.  Why do you think it's come together so well this year?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think that mentally I think I'm stronger than last year.  You know, I was injured during a long time, so I didn't have the possibility to play and to win a lot of tournaments.  But I think now I'm fit and I can play all the tournament without any problems.  So just a lot of matches, a lot of experience now, and that change a lot. 

Q.  Looks like you'll probably play Serena in the semifinal.  Will you need a different approach?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I never played her, so it will be the first time.  That's important also.  I think it's good to play against Serena.  She's a really strong player.  I never played against her.  I don't know her very much, so we will see what's going to happen.  You know, she's a great champion.  I will be the outsider, so I will have nothing to lose in the semis of Wimbledon.  I will have, for sure, different approach from the French.  I will not have a lot of pressure on me.  So I think that's okay. 

Q.  What happened in the French?  You were just under too much pressure because you'd never been there before, was that the problem?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, for sure.  I think it's different to play Williams or Clijsters in the semis.  It's a different match for me.  And I think in the French, yeah, I had to win, but in my head I wasn't so strong.  So it was 6-1, 4-2, and I didn't go to win the match.  Maybe if I have the possibility here, I will not do the same mistake. 

Q.  You said after winning Rosmalen and coming here that you were a bit tired.  Is that still a problem now?

JUSTINE HENIN:  When you are in the semis of a Grand Slam, you don't feel tired.  For sure, I'm a little bit tired physically - I don't think mentally - because you give all you have to go to the final, if you have the possibility.  So after the tournament, I think I will feel it more than here. 

Q.  Going back to today's match, do you think it was a case of you playing well or Martinez not playing particularly well on the day?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think both.  But, you know, when you're playing so fast and when you don't do a lot of mistakes, when you put a lot of pressure on the other player, it's difficult to organize her game.  So she couldn't play a lot with her slice because I played on whole court.  So I think I was very aggressive.  I served well.  So she had nothing to do.  She was a little bit frustrated, I think.  But it's okay.  I played a good match.  She did a lot of mistakes.  But it's good. 

Q.  Were you surprised at the way she served?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.  You know, to return on her serve is difficult because it's not so fast, there is a lot of slice, it's so slow.  Sometimes it's difficult to find a way. 

Q.  What do you think of the WTA World Championships changing from New York to Munich?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I don't think anything about that.  I think it's for us, for the Fed Cup, it's good to play in Europe.  For me it's the same to play in Germany, New York.  I don't mind about that. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT