WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2001
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  You're rolling along pretty quietly in this tournament.  You going to upset some people here? 

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think now I am in the first round for me, that's the best important.  I won a good match today against a girl who has a lot of experience on grass court.  I think it's a good result for me.  I won in two sets, so I think match after match I do my way and I try to go far and do my best tennis. 

Q.  And your French Open result, that's helped you coming into this tournament, even though it's a different surface?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.  I think I had a good adaptation to this surface, and for sure to be in the semi in a Grand Slam, it's a great experience that help me a lot.  I think if I had the possibility in the next times to be in this situation, maybe I will have a different reaction. 

Q.  Can you explain how Belgium has all of a sudden become a tennis power? 

JUSTINE HENIN:  For a million times this year that I had this question.  I think that we have good mentality.  We work very hard.  We have good federation.  We are good players.  That's it. 

Q.  What does your next opponent, Anke Huber, tell you?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think it will be another match, another difficult match.  She won easy today.  And I think that she can play also well on grass court.  I think she was in the first one last year if I have a good memory.  So she can play good on grass court.  I will have to also play good match.  I never played Anke, so it will be first time.

Q.  Did you see her play today?

JUSTINE HENIN:  No, I didn't see.  I had the match, so I didn't see the match.  I think I was focus on my match.  I had to win one more match before playing her.

Q.  Did you have somebody else seeing her for you?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I don't know if my coach went.  I didn't talk about that with him. 

Q.  How do you prepare for a match like that? 

JUSTINE HENIN:  Like another match.  I think it's a first won in a Grand Slam.  It's an important match but I have a doubles tomorrow so I think it's also good preparation.  I will prepare this match like every match. 

Q.  So for the preparation, it doesn't matter who you play; it's going to be the same?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Nothing special.  I think that I try to be focus on myself.  That's the best important.  Try to play my game and to be good in the practise. 

Q.  Do you watch any games at all, any other games? 

JUSTINE HENIN:  No, I don't like to watch any matches when I am in the Grand Slam.  I think that, you know, we try to be focus on my match and that's it. 

Q.  Do you follow tennis, what happens around you?  For example, did you see Goran Ivanisevic?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I saw it in the locker room when I was waiting for my match.

Q.  Did you see his funny appearances, for example, on television when he did this character?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I saw it. 

Q.  What do you think of it?

JUSTINE HENIN:  What do you want that I say to you?  I saw, that's it.  I saw what he did and I don't think  -- I don't think anything about that. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT