AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2001
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  Lindsay Davenport identified you as a strong contender down here.  Referred to you as the young Belgian girl.  How does that feel to you to have the top players...

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think it so good to hear that, but I think it is a long way to go in the top and to play against these kind of player.  I think I am in confidence. I play well.  I won two tournaments before this, but I think, you know, next match will be a difficult.  I am happy to hear that, but I know that there is a long way to do this, so I am happy, but I will try only to continue. 

Q.  Do you know how many matches you have won on the tour now?

JUSTINE HENIN:  12.

Q.  Do you feel unbeatable when you go out on the court?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think I am in confidence but I am also a little bit tired because mentally it is difficult when you won two tournaments and after that you have to play more matches.  I want to win all matches.  But it is difficult.  Sometimes I lose a little bit my concentration because mentally I am a little bit tired.  But I think today it was better than in the first match.  I hope that in the next match it will be better also.  I think I am on the good way.  I played not so bad today.  So I think now I can continue and physically I am okay.  That is the most important.

Q.  Do you have an explanation of why this year has been so good for you?  Is it just getting over the injuries you had last year?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I think last year I didn't have  -- I didn't play during six months, so after that I played well and especially in the U.S. open, so I think in December I worked a lot.  I worked hard and especially physically I think I did a good work and when I arrived in Australia I wasn't confident.  I knew that I could play well and I did it.  So I think that is only the practice and mentally I think I am not afraid to lose now.  I am not so nervous that last year and I think I can play without problems in my head.  I had injuries.  I had personal problems last year and now it is in the past and I can do my best on the court.

Q.  Did you grow up playing mainly on clay?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think I didn't play a lot on clay.  Last year I did my best results on hard court in the U.S. open.  But I think I will play well also on clay court because it is my best surface.  But on hard court I did my best results.  I play well here and I think I am fast on the court.  So it is not a problem for me to play on hard, but I prefer clay court. 

Q.  Are you ever discouraged at all knowing that with your built you are going against girls who are larger and stronger down the line like a Venus -, Serena -, Lindsay-type is that discouraging for you and how do you counteract?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I am not a strong player.  I think I play with everything in my game, with my slice, with my head.  I think I like to go to the net.  I don't like to do a lot of rallies on my best.  It is not my game, and I think when I am aggressive when I go to the net, I think it is the best part of my game.  So I am not a strong player like them.  But I think Martina is not so strong girl also and she is number one in the world.  So I think we play with our possibilities.

Q.  When you talk about personal problems, they were related to, I mean, federation or...

JUSTINE HENIN:  No, nothing. 

Q.  Just family?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Just family, personal problems.  I don't want to talk about that. 

Q.  Your father travels with you on the circuit?

JUSTINE HENIN:  No.  He doesn't travel with me.

Q.  You travel around alone?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I am here with my coach and my fiancee, yeah.

Q.  The recent retirement of Dominique Van Roost followed by Sabine Appelmans, how much pressure is it on you and other players to carry the torch for Belgium?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think nothing.  Sabine and Domonique were models for us, for Kim and me and I think it is good and we try to continue the way they were.  So I think it is a good thing because it was a great motivation to have the same career that Dominique and Sabine but no pressure.

Q.  What expectations do you have of Belgium female tennis?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think in -- for a little country like Belgium it is always good to have two players like Kim and me and after that we have some other good players (inaudible).  We are a lot on the circuit.  I think for a little country like Belgium it is so good to have these kind of players on the tour.  I think everybody knows us now.

Q.  Was Sabine and Dominique role models for you?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.  They were models because I think Dominique was No. 9 in the world.  If I can have the same career like her, I sign now.

Q.  How sad is it that it is Sabine's last tournament?

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think she plays without any pressure.  She is relaxed.  She is here just to play.  She enjoys her game.  So I think she can do a good result because she is cool on the court. 

Q.  With Kim are you kind of close friends or is there a rivalry?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, because I know Kim from many years ago.  I think we played in juniors under 14 together, so, yeah, we are friends, I think Kim is a nice girl and in tournaments we are always together. 

Q.  Do you have sort of a sense of wanting to beat her?

JUSTINE HENIN:  You know when we were on the court we are -- when you play against her, okay, the best player will win, but when we are outside, I think we can be friends.  So I don't think about that. 

Q.  Is it a coincidence that you are so many playing well in Belgium now or federation makes good work?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I think the federation made a good work and I think also we have a good mentality in Belgium to work.  Before when maybe when we won a tournament we were happy and we didn't practice after that, but now we work hard and maybe ten years ago, I don't know.

Q.  Your family, they had to invest a lot of money when you were a kid in order to bring you at your level when you were fourteen or fifteen?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, for sure, but when I was 12 and after that, the federation helped me a lot.  It continues to help me.  So the federation is my best, you know, my best help. 

Q.  When are you getting married?

JUSTINE HENIN:  Married? 

Q.  Yes.

JUSTINE HENIN:  I think in the next two years.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT