US OPEN
September 2, 2000
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:  Questions in English.  
 
 
Q.  You've been on Tour a few years now and have seen Kournikova's game.  She's a person who has a great number of outside interests other than tennis.  Do you suspect that maybe those outside interests are keeping her from achieving her best tennis on the Tour?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think I am here to play tennis, is the best important in my life.  I think she's a really nice girl.  She likes her look, and everybody likes her look.  But I am not here to do cinema.  I am here to play tennis and I think that's the best important.  
 
Q.  Do you think that her outside interests take too much of her time away from training, where she could be a better player if she was more narrowly focused on tennis?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I don't know.  It's not my problem.  It's her problem, not mine.  
 
Q.  Every player expects to win when they play.  Did you really think you were going to beat Kournikova coming in or was it a 50-50 thing?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  No, I think in every match is 50-50, but I won against her last year in Philadelphia, 7-6, 6-4.  I knew that I can beat Anna, but it's always difficult to play against her because I think that the people were for her. So it was a special match for me, but I knew when I went to the court, that I could win.  And I won.  
 
Q.  You've had a good summer.  Did you expect coming into the Open that you would play well; that you would see these kind of results?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, for sure.  She played well.  I played well also.  And I knew that it was supposed to be a good match.  But I think I had lot of matches.  I played a lot just before the US, so it was good to me.  
 
Q.  What is the key toward beating Kournikova?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  What is what? 
 
Q.  What is the key toward beating her?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  I think I won in Philadelphia, and it was important in this match because she was really nervous.  And I showed that when I was aggressive, when I was to the net, when I attacked, I was better than her.  So, no, I served well.  It was important because if you don't serve good against her, it's always difficult.  And she didn't serve very good, so I return well also.  
 
Q.  Was she aggressive enough?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  No, she wasn't aggressive enough.  Because when I go to the net, it was finish for her because I played well at this time.  And I think 4-1 in the first and 3-1 in the second, I was afraid to win this match.  So it was difficult not this time.  
 
Q.  How have you fared against Davenport in the past?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Oh, it's a big match for me.  It's the third time that I will play against her.  I lost two times in three sets.  But I think now I passed three runs, and it's good to play against Lindsay on the center court, I suppose.  In the USA I like it because I did two good matches against her, and I could win the two matches. So I hope that it will be a third good match.  
 
Q.  Do you like playing against power players?
 
JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.  I like to play against this player because I have nothing to lose.  So I do all my best, and we'll see.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT