SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 31, 2008
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. A lot of attention is paid to players like Maria Sharapova, Ana Ivanovic and the Williams sisters, particularly in a venue like this in Miami where there's a lot of glitz and glamour involved. You seem to shy away from that. Do you think that more attention should be paid strictly to the game as the No. 1 player, or is there something you prefer not to be in the spotlight?  
 JUSTINE HENIN: Well, for me, it's just the fact I know why I'm here. I'm here to play tennis and I'm here to win matches, and I love to be here with Carlos' family and my friends around me.   
 Except for that I'm just here for my tennis. That's what I love so much about my career. It's not really what's around tennis.   
 But I don't pay that much attention to that because we I think we need different kind of personalities, and it's very exciting for the game that we are so different in the top 10. So that doesn't bother me at all actually.   
  
  Q. There was a bit of a rough patch with the serves and the double faults. What was going on there and how did you overcome it?  
 JUSTINE HENIN: Yeah, I think I've been -- I played a very good first set actually. I have been consistent. I was serving very well. The wind was quite strong today, and I lost my intensity and my concentration.   
 In the second set a little bit, especially in that game that I did my four double faults. But I had really the sun in the eyes there and it was quite windy at that time of the match.   
 But, no, I'm happy the way I played, especially in the first set. It was really good, and I just could handle, and it was good enough.   
  
  Q. If Serena wins today you'll meet her, I guess in the quarters. Can you talk about the challenge of playing her? I know you guys have had back and forth. I know she won the final last year. I think you won the last three.   
 JUSTINE HENIN: Yes.  
  
  Q. Talk about her.   
 JUSTINE HENIN: Yeah, actually it's a very good memory from last year even if I had match points and I lost the match. It was a day that I understood that could win against Serena and that I could do it in Grand Slams three times in the same year.   
 So it doesn't mean I'm going to win tomorrow, but I think that that gave me a lot of confidence last year to beat her three times in a row in the Grand Slams.   
 It's very good to have this kind of rivalry, because she's a champion and I think there was a lot of respect in our matches last year. Everyone was really excited about our meetings. If we ever have to play each other tomorrow it would be the case one more time, so I'm very excite about that.  
  
  Q. I know you don't like to get ahead, but let's say you won that one. Then you might have to face her sister. Is it a similar type of game when you face one from the other, or how are they different, their games?  
 JUSTINE HENIN: No, they're quite different. I would say they're really different in many ways. I'm not going to talk that much with you about that, but they are different, different kind of games and different qualities.   
 It's tough to play both of them, but I'm -- you know, I'm not at that point right now. It's Serena I'm going to face tomorrow. At the US Open I was really proud that I could make it, beat them both in the tournament. And it was quite an achievement.   
 I'm really focused on myself now, and if I stay concentrate and do what I have to do, everything will go well.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT