SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 30, 2008
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. So another good serving performance. Maybe a little better in the first set than the second?  
 JUSTINE HENIN: Yes, generally I'm happy the way I played today. My serve was pretty good, especially in the first set, I agree with that. But I thought she was fighting good, and that I really, I've been consistent, and I've been quite aggressive.   
 So the weather is, I mean, it's very hot out there. It's humid and not that easy conditions, but it was good. I played the first match, and that gives confidence, so I'm very happy.  
  
  Q. At this time of the day, around noon, the sun is very high. Was it a problem today?   
 JUSTINE HENIN: Not to serve, actually. You don't have the sun really in the eyes when you serve. But it was quite difficult to breathe. It wasn't that windy today, so, I mean, when you're on the court it's difficult conditions, but it's part of the game. It's the same for everyone.   
 I usually like when it's hot, but I've -- I haven't been in this heat for a long time. So even in Australia it wasn't that hot this year, so it's quite difficult.  
  
  Q. Her second serve, if I may be kind, is not so great. But sometimes isn't it amazing how easy it looks to hit, and you wind up not hitting the ball the way you want to sometimes?  
 JUSTINE HENIN: Yeah, it's not that easy when you have this kind of second serve, because you know you have to move forward. But the bounce is quite high, so you really need the good timing. But I think I did a good job.   
 It was really good enough to win pretty easily, so I'm happy. Because maybe a few weeks ago it would have been another story in this kind of match. So that means I've really improved in the last few weeks.  
  
  Q. Did it begin to bother you that these second serves are so easy to hit, and you were hitting some wide, some out?   
 JUSTINE HENIN: No, not really. I just realized that sometimes I do prefer when the ball is coming faster. I think it's easier, and also on the second serve I like a good first serve. So it doesn't bother me.   
 But when it's slower, it's like I really need to find a good rhythm, and I did. At the end it was much better, so I was glad.   
  
  Q. Harkleroad, Venina, still out there fighting away. You've played Jelena twice at Grand Slams and fairly easy matches for you.   
 JUSTINE HENIN: Yeah, it would be another story. It's another tournament, other conditions, other situations. So even if I had good success last year at the French and Wimbledon against her, she's quite a good player, and she can compete at a very good level. She proved it.  
 Harkleroad, yeah, I didn't see -- I didn't play her for a long time. It looks like she's coming back at a good level. Doesn't matter who I play, it's going to be a good match for me, and I hope I can make it to the quarters.  
  
  Q. What are the things that's Vesnina does that are dangerous for you?   
 JUSTINE HENIN: Well, she never gives up. She's quite talented and she's going for it. So I'm going to talk about the match with Carlos, certainly. I will know who I play tomorrow, so we'll see.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT