AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 22, 2008
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  She played pretty well, didn't she?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, she did, for sure.  No, she did her match.  She played very high level of tennis.  I have to agree with that.   
 So she started the match much better than me.  I came back, but I wasn't good enough.  She just did everything better than me today.  And she served consistent and she's been much more aggressive and looked like it was her day and probably her tournament, so she -- she's in great shape.   
  
  Q.  You didn't seem to be on your game tonight.  We've all seen you play a lot better.   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I think that I have no excuse.  You know, she won the match.  She's been the best.  I can tell I wasn't at my best level, and that's for sure.  But the story is she won the match, and I'm going back home now.  So it's kind of a disappointment for sure.   
 It's very hard to be at your best level all the time, and I'll have to think about that and build again for the future.   
  
  Q.  Any one aspect of your game that didn't work for you, that you were disappointed with?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, I think that I haven't been aggressive enough.  I haven't taken the opportunities.  And, yeah, it's kind of the day that happens sometimes.  She did put on me a lot of pressure.  I knew I had to play my best level, and I wasn't today.  So that's tough to accept, but you have to.   
  
  Q.  How did you feel coming into the match?  Were you at all anxious going in?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  I was a bit anxious.  Physically, I was really concerned about my knee for a few days.  So I was a bit anxious, because I knew I wasn't really 100 percent.  Even if it's not an excuse about what happened on the court, because she was much better than me.   
 I knew she was in top form and I knew it was going to be tough, so I was ready to fight and give my best, but it wasn't good enough.   
  
  Q.  Do you know what's wrong with your knee?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, it's -- it's old problem.  It's just my knee is getting old, and, yeah, probably have to rest a little bit now.   
  
  Q.  Has her game gotten a lot more varied in the last year or so, would you say?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  She worked hard, I think, in the off-season.  Apparently her shoulder is good now, so it gives her a lot of self-confidence.  She serves great.  She did everything well today.  She was playing the lines.  She was really aggressive.  She was attacking the ball, and I was way too far.   
 She, I think, improved quite a lot in the last few weeks and came back much better than she was last year.   
  
  Q.  Do you think she'll win it from here?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  I think so, but a lot of things can happen.  She looks like she's the player who is really confident now, and she has a great chance to do it, I think.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT