AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 14, 2008
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English first, please?  First question.   
  
  Q.  Apart from the beginning of the second set, how did you feel?   
 JUSTIN HENIN:  Well, it's been tough at the beginning because the conditions were quite difficult.  It was a little bit windy and she had a game that wasn't the easiest for me to start the tournament.  She was hitting the ball pretty flat, and that wasn't easy.  And it wasn't top spin at all.  We did have to get used to the conditions and the rhythm, but after that it was much better.  I took the net I little bit more.  And always the first round is not my favorite one, so I'm glad it's behind me now.   
  
  Q.  What did you think of the court speed?   
 JUSTIN HENIN:  I don't know exactly what to say about the courts.  I don't have really something I can say.  I don't have the feeling -- I feel it's a good deal for me.  It's a good balance.  It's not that fast, it's not too slow.  I know a lot of players complained pretty much about it.  But, yeah, I don't feel a big, big difference.  For me, it looks fine.   
  
  Q.  No big difference?   
 JUSTIN HENIN:  Last year, I don't know.  From two years ago.  I forgot about two years ago (laughter).   
 But it's -- no, balls are flying at the beginning and then become pretty heavy so it's a bit strange.   
  
  Q.  What do you think of the color?   
 JUSTIN HENIN:  I like the color.  I like the blue.  So for me color is good.  But I love the way it was before.  So I don't complain about anything now.   
  
  Q.  What are the emotions playing your first match since that final?   
 JUSTIN HENIN:  Yeah, I didn't really think about that because it seems so far away from me, and I moved forward, you know, and a lot of things happened.  And I just try to -- I forget about the past.  I just want to be focused on this moment.  I cannot really tell you it didn't come in my mind, but I didn't stay on this feeling.   
 I just want to play as many matches as I can on this center court again, and I hope it's going to be a good week for me.   
  
  Q.  Serena talked about finding another level.  Given the year you had last year, is there another level for you?   
 JUSTIN HENIN:  For me?  What I did last year was amazing.  It was unique.  It's been the best season of my career.  It brought me probably at another level, other expectations also.  And I always have a lot of ambition.  I want to grow up.  I want to get better.  I want to improve.   
 But you have to start again all the time.  Every tournament is different.  And every day you have to give your best.  And you have to pay attention to all the little details.   
 A Grand Slam, it's tough and it's long, and you need to be consistent, at your best all the time, so that's not very easy.   
  
  Q.  Have you been following Lindsay's return?  What do you make of her comeback after giving birth?   
 JUSTIN HENIN:  I think it's great.  I really to be honest didn't expect she would be back at a very good level so quickly, and she is.  That's great for the game.  It's a beautiful story.  And I think everyone is pretty happy for her, and that's very good.   
  
  Q.  Do you think you'll see more women coming back after giving birth?   
 JUSTIN HENIN:  Well, I don't know.  I don't think about that.  So I don't know.  Yeah, why not?   
 For me, it would be strange, I think it's not a part of -- you know, it's so different life.  But it's very personal, so I don't make any judgment.  It's -- I don't think I would make it.  But if the others want to do it, it's great for the game, because it's very exciting for everyone.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT