U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2007
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  Pretty high level Justine, huh?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I mean, I was happy the way I played and served.  I've been consistent from the first point almost to the end, because I lost my serve twice in the second set.  But happy.   
 I was ready for a good battle, and she did a lot of mistakes but I've been very consistent.  Didn't give a lot of free points.  Very aggressive, went to the net a lot on my serves.  It's good because I know that now I will need that in my next match and in my next few matches, I hope.   
  
  Q.  Were you thinking about that going out tonight?  I know Safina obviously can be tough, but you're at a little bit different level, I need to get my game to a different level?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.  I knew it was going to be a different level than the first three matches.  It's good in because this kind of situation I know I can push myself a little more.  In the first three matches I was playing well but I didn't know really where I was and how my level was, and today against a better player I knew that I had to be very, very aggressive on every point.  So I was feeling good.  My shoulder has been feeling better, too, so I'm very glad about that.   
  
  Q.  You didn't play Serena for four years, and now you're going play her for the third Slam in a row at the quarterfinals, is that a blessing or a curse?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  I think that I've been pretty lucky.  I haven't been lucky, but that worked pretty good for me in the last two Grand Slams.  I hope it's going to be another good one.   
 Yeah, we know each other pretty well.  I know everyone was waiting for that match, and here we are.  That's why I'm playing tennis, to play this kind of match.  That's why I'm here.  I'm very happy I'm going play her, and I hope we can show good tennis, and I think it's great for me.   
  
  Q.  Did you get a sense of how injured she was, especially on the backhand side at Wimbledon, and what do you expect of her now that she's had time for the thumb to heal?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, I never really focus on my opponent; more on myself.  It was important for me to beat her on another surface than clay in Wimbledon.  But it was very emotional for me.  That took me a lot energy that match.   
 And I know it's going to be different, different surface.  She's here at home.  She loves to play in the US Open.  Probably I suppose maybe night match on Tuesday, so it's going to be great.   
 So I'm not really focused on what she's going to do.  Just going to try to do my job the best I can.  Try to be at my best level and the best will win.   
  
  Q.  How much of her matches have you seen today or at all this week?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Not that much.  Just maybe a few games.  But I haven't been really focused on the other players here because it's hard to compare, you know.  Every match is different, every situation is different, and I have a very different kind of game from all the other players.  I don't look too much.  I don't watch too much.  So we'll see.  Different match now.   
  
  Q.  Is it more valuable to look back on what happened in Miami for you, than it is the French or Wimbledon?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  For sure.  I think I was the best player on the court for almost two sets, but she's been stronger than me at that time to finish the match.  I wasn't because probably I didn't believe in myself that much, and that's what changed in the French and in Wimbledon.   
 But I should have won that match.  But tennis -- I mean, we proved that until the last point it's not over.  You have to fight very hard and I was a bit short.  But it was a great match I think in Miami.  It's been -- I really enjoyed it.   
 Even I lost it it's been good memories for me because I think we both played very good tennis, and I hope that's what we going to do on Tuesday.   
  
  Q.  Why do you think the two of you are able to bring out the best in each other?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, I think it's important these contests because we all -- finally we all help each other to be better.  And when you feel another player is playing well you just want to be better.  That's great.  That's the way I felt when I was with Kim on the tour.  Kim and I helped each other a lot.   
 I like this contests, and there's a lot of respect now and everything is fine.  So that's very important, too.   
  
  Q.  She said that one of the reasons why you have had some success against her and why the rivalry is so special is because you actually believe you can beat her at times.  Could the same be said on the other side?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.  I mean, we both have a lot of character and a lot of personality.  We both have been very strong mentally on the court and in the last few years.  She won Grand Slams; I did.  She's been No. 1 and I've been.  So it's great.   
 You know, now let's go and play and we'll see what's going to happen.  But there's a lot of respect professionally between the two of us, that's for sure.   
  
  Q.  So just talk about just a couple keys to the match because she's been serving pretty great here.  It seems to be the one stroke that doesn't leave her.   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah.   
  
  Q.  Do you have to sort of match that on your side?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, for sure.  We'll see what's going to happen on the court on Tuesday.  Going to be a different kind of match and different kind of pressure.  She serve well, but I will try to take every opportunity I can and I have qualities in my game and I serve better tonight, too.   
 We play so differently, which is very interesting and very exciting.  So, yeah, I'm very excited to be on Tuesday for sure.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT