U.S. OPEN
August 31, 2007
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine.   
  
  Q.  You're smiling a lot this year.  What's going on?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  What a question.  No, I'm just feeling happy to be on the court.  I'm healthy.  I mean, almost a hundred percent except for my shoulder.   
 No, it's great.  I love to play.  I love being out there.  That's the way I'm feeling good now.  It's pretty good news.   
  
  Q.  You won the first 10 games, then lost a game, and you looked awfully unhappy then.   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  No, it's like I go a hundred percent on every point.  I love competition.  I just want to give my best in every shot.  That's what I did.   
 But I was very happy the way I played today.  It's been aggressive, it's been good from the first point till the end.  Very glad about that.   
  
  Q.  When you play three opponents in the first week, all of whom are ranked in the 100's, certainly professional players, but not players that are going to push you very hard, can it leave you sharp enough for the second week?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  I don't think that much about that.  I take whatever I can take, just go step by step, try to build my confidence.  A big part of my success is that I've always been very focused on myself in the last few years, don't look too much on the other side of the net.   
 But, you know, if this girl was third round it means she was playing well.  I just try to do my best no matter who I play.  I'm going to have a good test in two days.  It's the way you build a lot of good things.  Just go match after match.  So we'll see.   
  
  Q.  Will any of your family be here for this tournament?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  No.   
  
  Q.  Est wearing a watch ever bother you on court?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  No.  I cannot live without my watch.  It's just a few players.  I don't know, I never saw another player playing with a watch.  But I always keep my watch.  I sleep with that.  I take my shower, everything.   
 I cannot live without my watch (smiling).  It's good.  Except on holidays, I take it off.  But it's tough.  I like to be on time.  I think it's a great quality, being on time.   
  
  Q.  What kind of watch?  It's a Rolex, right?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, hmm.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT