ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 19, 2007
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 

 Q.  How's your shoulder?  And you were saying you almost didn't play this tournament; is that true? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Almost didn't play today, yeah, that was true.  Because last night I was really concerned about my problem with my shoulder.  It was really inflamed.  And really last night I wasn't really positive about the fact that I could play today. 
 So I really wanted to wait until my warm-up, and I was feeling much better this morning.  And the trainers, they did a great job.  So they helped me really to play today.  And I was feeling 100% during the match.  Now it's going to be sore for a few days, I know it because that's a pain I've known for a couple of years. 
 I'll be fine for the Open, but I was really concerned about playing on it today.  And I was glad I could make it, because it would have been really rough on it for me and for the tournament not to play the final. 

 Q.  How different was Jelena's mental game compared to the other players you played?  She went after everything you gave her.  Did that push you more or did that kind of worry you? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, Jelena is a real fighter, and she's No. 3 in the world, and that means she's a really, really good player.  And she proved it many times this year.  So I was ready for a big fight. 
 She's getting a lot of balls in the court, and running a lot, and she's moving so well.  It was tough, because she was going for the winners as soon as she got a little bit of more time to come in the court and be aggressive.  And that was really tough.  Especially at the end of the match, it was very intense, and it wasn't easy at the end. 

 Q.  What exactly did they do to your shoulder to make it good? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  We did a lot of treatments and some medications.  But, you know, a lot of treatments to release a little bit all the tensions and everything. 
 So, no, trainers of WTA did a fantastic job.  Because last night I wasn't really, really positive about the fact that I could play.  So a lot of treatment on it last night, this morning before practice, before the match.  And I knew I had to be -- not to be nervous and not to get tense, because it would have been worse for me. 

 Q.  Is it like ice and massage and things like that? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah. 

 Q.  How close were you to perhaps pulling out? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, I wasn't last night, you know, I said, Okay, let's wait for a good night's sleep.  And I know this pain, because if it wakes me up during the night, it's not a good sign.  But I could sleep pretty well.  So I just wanted to wait until my practice and make sure everything was okay. 
 So yeah, and finally it was.  Even if it was a little bit painful during my warm-up, I knew when it was going to get warm that I could handle with the pain.  And during the match, I would say it's been almost perfect. 

 Q.  After losing at Wimbledon, how important was it for you to win the Rogers Cup here? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Wimbledon seems far away for me now.  It's been disappointing, for sure, because I'm a competitor.  I hate to lose.  And especially this way in the Grand Slam semifinal, a tournament where I had a lot of expectations. 
 But I can tell you after that I had great holidays.  I went with my foundation, some kids with my foundation in Switzerland.  When you spend some time with these kids, you realize losing a tennis match doesn't mean a lot of things even if it's my job and it's my life. 
 But Wimbledon now is from the past now.  I just want to stay focused on the Open now. 

 Q.  That long 11th game in the second set.  Is that one of the more exciting games you've had before? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, one of the toughest games I've ever had.  And I think it's been 80 minutes or something. 
 It was an important game, because I had the match point at 5-4 in the second and didn't lose that game.  And then we were both playing very well at that time of the match.  So a lot of winners in that game. 
 And you know, I just tried to take my opportunities.  I went to the net a lot.  But she gave me so many good passing shots.  But finally it paid off, and I won that game.  And it was really important mentally and physically to conclude the match at that time. 

 Q.  What did you think of the crowd today?  It was a packed stadium, but there were a few loud mouths, did they disturb you at all? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, sometimes it hasn't been really good.  But it's the kind of thing we have to deal with.  Generally, almost all the crowd was correct, but just a few of them don't understand a lot of things.  But it's okay, we have to accept that (smiling). 

 Q.  What will you do leading into the US Open? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  I'm going to stay here for a few days.  I'm going to stay in Toronto until Thursday, I think, and then go to New York.  So I'm going to take some time off.  Maybe just change my mind tomorrow, maybe Niagara Falls or something.  Just take some time off.  And not thinking too much about tennis for one or two days.  Then start to practice probably on Tuesday, and get ready for the Open. 

 Q.  Where do you find the fight on a day like this where, you know, last night you're not sure if you're even going to be able to play?  And there were so many moments in the first set and second set that you had to, obviously, fight back to get back in the match. 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  I love these situations.  That's what I love the most in my job.  That's my passion.  Sometimes I have the feeling I let go a few games and put me in a difficult situation.  I don't know if I like it, it's not good, not a good way to act. 
 But I love when it comes to 4 or 5-All, and It's going to be a really important moment during the match.  I love this kind of situation, so that's why I love to compete.  It's because of these moments.  Especially during finals. 

 Q.  Today it almost seemed like you were teasing yourself.  You'd get to a point and you'd have a little setback, and come out and dig yourself a little hole. 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  I played my best tennis when it was very close at the end of both sets.  So played a great tiebreak.  Then at 5-All in the second set, I was down 4-2 again, 4-1 in the first, 4-2 in the second. 
 So I think it's been, yeah, good the way I came back in the match every time.  But it's in my personality also a little bit.  That's the way I am, and I think I'll never change that. 

 Q.  So was it more a matter of just being mentally getting adjusted in that first set or did you make it physical? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I have been in trouble in all my matches at the beginning of the matches.  Every day it's been tough for me.  Why?  I don't know (smiling).  I'm not going to try to really understand everything.  It doesn't have an answer all the time.  But yeah, I think it's been generally good in my attitude, because I kept fighting every match, and won all my matches in two sets.  So it gives a lot of confidence.  Because this tournament was important to me.  But the main goal, for sure, remains New York in one week. 

 Q.  Is it more rewarding to win a match like this, and fight back in a match like this when the level of tennis is as high as it was today, especially in that 11th game? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  It's been a great level at the end of the match.  And it's important to win this kind of match.  It gives a lot of confidence.  And it's been very emotional, too.  It's been so intense, and we could feel it on the court.  The crowd was really into the match at that time, so that's the kind of match you love to win. 

 Q.  You've played Jelena so many times over the last year - starting with the semifinals last year at the US Open.  As has her game changed at all or her mental approach changed? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  She's better than she was last year, for sure.  Because she's in confidence.  She loves to play, we can see it.  She enjoyed her game a lot.  She's very talented.  A lot of qualities.  She's physically fit, and she's moving so well, and she's smart.  So she has a big backhand.  Yeah, I mean, that's why she is at the top of women's tennis now. 

 Q.  Is there anything that wasn't there when you faced her a year ago? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  In New York last year, I think it wasn't really at my best at all when I played her, far from that.  And she had many chances to win that match.  But I don't know, physically, I wasn't feeling very well, so it's very hard to compare situations. 
 I can tell you, she's really good now. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT