ROGERS CUP PRESENTED BY AMERICAN EXPRESS
August 18, 2007
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions in English, please. 

 Q.  Today it seemed as though you played more by analyzing Yan's way of playing and challenging it.  And even she said so in the last press conference.  Is that true or did you focus on your game or 50-50? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  No, I think I was ready for a big fight because she proved she was a good player.  But you know, just had to stay on my baseline, don't give her a lot of time.  And I knew her forehand was her best shot, so I organized my game a little bit when I think about that point. 
 But except for that I just tried to play my game.  I've been much more aggressive in the second set.  So conditions were much better today than it was last night.  So I'm very happy, because she's a very good player. 

 Q.  Did you try to set a rhythm going for her?  Like against her, pushing her in the same places all the time? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  No, I thought I could change her rhythm a lot.  And especially when I was coming a lot to the net.  In the second set, I was much, much better and don't go back too far. 
 So, no, I'm very pleased to be again in the final here.  It's a tournament I like a lot, and that's a very good preparation for me for New York.  So I'm very happy about that. 

 Q.  You played very well today obviously, but she was a crowd favorite, too.  Is that understandable given what she did in this tournament up until now? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, that's normal.  I think the crowd wanted to have a close match, so they gave her a lot of support.  And she had an amazing tournament.  She was really in confidence. 
 It's not easy for me to play a player that I don't know that much in singles.  So that's not the kind of situation I do prefer, but it's good.  I have to deal with this situation sometimes, and I think I did it a very good way today, so I'm very happy. 

 Q.  Were you surprised that she won three of the first six games?  What did you change at 3-all? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, I thought I wasn't really aggressive on every point.  And I had ups and downs with my concentration at the beginning of the match. 
 But it's been like the whole week I had a pretty tough starts, and then getting much better as soon as the match is moving forward.  I think I was feeling much better on the court. 
 So I wasn't really surprised.  I mean, I knew she was on the court to compete with me, and it was 50-50 at that time.  But after that I just took the opportunities and played much more aggressive and just tried to be very intense in the rallies and that worked pretty good. 

 Q.  You haven't played her before today.  Was it just a matter of feeling her out the first few games and then stepping out? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, it takes a little bit of time to get used to her game.  She was using her forehand a lot.  It's, for sure, her best shot.  And I just had to move her a lot and then change the directions and be very aggressive.  And it took me a few games to understand that. 

 Q.  What do you do the night before a tournament final?  Do you have any routines or superstitions?  Is it the same as any other night? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  No, it's the same for me.  I don't change anything.  No, it's like before any match.  In the Grand Slam it's the same.  In any kind of situation, I have my routine.  Before every match I do the same things.  There is no reason why I should change it before the finals. 
 So that is the way I am, and it worked pretty good in the past, so I'm going to keep going this way. 

 Q.  You mentioned about rounding into form next week, any dangers about looking too far ahead with tomorrow's match coming up? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, it's like this match is going to be my next goal, my final tomorrow.  I'm going to have a week off, so it's going to be good. 
 My shoulder hurts a little bit, so I'm going to have a few days to recover, take my time.  And usually I don't like to play a week before a Grand Slam.  I don't like it that much.  Last year I had to because I was sick for Montreal, and I had to play a few matches in New Haven.  But I don't like it that much. 
 I do prefer to have my time and get relaxed a little bit and get ready, especially mentally and physically. 

 Q.  For fans or people who didn't watch the game, do you think the score represents the level of play fairly?  I mean, 6-0 in the second - do you think she could have had a few games on you or just one or two points? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Oh, I don't know.  But that makes a difference sometimes between the players.  When sometimes a game is pretty close, but you make the difference in an important point.  And I did play very well on the important points, that's the only thing I do care about now.  And the score is the score. 
 You know, I had to fight on every point because that's my job to be really focused on every shot and be very intense.  Because if you do a little mistake, it can cost you a lot.  And I understood that, and I did it in a good way. 

 Q.  Are you going to watch tonight's other semifinal or are you just going to prepare by yourself? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  No, I don't think so.  I'm probably going to be at dinner at that time.  So I know them pretty well.  I know how they play.  And if I have a chance to look a few games to watch a few games, but it's not like I have to.  Usually I don't like too much to watch the other players. 
 But tomorrow's going to be a different situation.  I'll know, you know, the big lines what they do, so that's the only thing I care about. 

 Q.  Do you feel like you're where you want to be coming into the Grand Slam?  Is this how you usually feel coming into a Grand Slam?  Is it pretty standard? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  No, every Grand Slam is different.  Every time it's a different feeling.  You never know what to expect.  I mean, because a Grand Slam is tough, and I have a lot of doubts.  And there are four in the year, four tournaments where you want to be your best.  Sometimes it's working and sometimes it's a little bit harder. 
 So, no, it's very different.  Especially when you play the week before, when you don't play the week before.  So for me the best situation is at the French, because I have two weeks off before the French Open.  And that's the kind of situation I like a lot. 

 Q.  Do you like where you are right now for the US Open though? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, I think when you play final tomorrow, I'm really focused on that.  I don't think too much about the US Open now.  It's going to be in a little bit more than a week now, and lot of things are going to happen.  And I'm going to have some time off next week to try to get ready. 
 The confidence is back after Wimbledon, that's for sure.  My level is good.  But you have to play, play and win and be working hard, that's it. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT