WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2007
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 

 Q.  How shocked are you about what happened out there? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I'm very disappointed now.  That's pretty normal.  I still don't really realize what did happen.  I don't understand what did happen. 
 But, yeah, she played her match and she did a very good job.  I played a very good first set, then I had a couple of chances at the end of the second set. 
 Didn't take these chances and the match completely turned over.  I didn't feel fresh enough in the third set to compete with her.  She played very good tennis. 
 So, yeah, it's pretty hard right now, but going to be better in a few days. 

 Q.  You think it's about what you didn't do rather than what she did? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  It's kind of both.  I mean, she played very well.  I have to agree with that.  She did an -- she's playing an unbelievable tournament.  She was in confidence.  She never been scared of winning the match or anything.  She took the opportunities. 
 But I probably played her game a little bit too much.  And, yeah, I had the feeling I didn't know what to do at certain points of the match.  Yeah, it's been pretty hard for me today. 

 Q.  Do you think you might put too much pressure on yourself to win here? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, I'm not quite sure it's that.  I mean, I had the control of the match in the first set, and then the match slowly but surely started to change a little bit. 
 I'm not quite sure it's a question of pressure about winning here.  You know, I lost a lot of energy in the last few weeks.  I played a lot.  My match against Serena also has been very tough mentally, emotionally. 
 It was hard for me to be at my best today.  It's the kind of things that can happen.  I'll have other chances in the future. 
 I don't make it an obsession.  I'm disappointed because I lost a Grand Slam semifinal.  It's been normal to have these feelings now. 

 Q.  Is this arguably the toughest defeat of your career? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, it's too early to say anything about that.  It's always pretty tough to lose, for sure.  But it's life, it's tennis, it's sport.  She has been the best today on the court and she deserved the victory.  That's the only thing I can say. 

 Q.  Do you think she can prove it wasn't a freak result by winning against Venus? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  It's going to be a Grand Slam final so it's different kind of situation.  Venus remains the favorite for tomorrow. 

 Q.  With Venus through relatively easily before you took the court, is getting through and conserving energy added pressure? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  No, not really.  I was pretty focused on my semi.  Didn't look that much of what the other match was -- if it was quick or not.  I didn't follow that that much.  I was concentrated on myself.  I knew it could be a dangerous match and I had chances to win the match in two sets, but she came back and she proved that she was a very good tennis player. 
 She deserved to be in the final. 

 Q.  Are you surprised she's never produced that level of tennis before? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  She's working very, very hard.  I think finally after all the sacrifices she did, now she deserves this kind of result.  I know how well she could play.  But today it was like she could close her eyes and play unbelievable tennis. 
 Yeah, she did everything perfectly.  Conditions were difficult.  The wind and everything.  She really played much better in these conditions than me. 

 Q.  When players get in a zone like that, a lot of times eventually they come out of it.  Were you surprised, whether it was 4-0, 5-1, she never seemed to start missing balls and get affected by the magnitude of the situation? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I mean, I know her personality.  I knew she wouldn't be afraid to win the match.  So I wasn't really surprised.  I couldn't expect for mistakes from her.  I had to try to win a little bit more many points and do more winners. 
 But she just took her chances much more than me.  That's pretty normal, the result. 

 Q.  Have you deconstructed anything with Carlos yet? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Not really, no. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT