WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2007
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  Justine Henin for you. 

 Q.  You may be aware that the WTA announced today a number of things, including Qatar, Istanbul, and changed the scoring rules for doubles. 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  I'm not even aware of the changing of the rules.  The Championships, I heard.  I just heard five minutes ago.  Yeah, it's interesting.  I was a little bit surprised about the choices, but it's good. 
 I mean, I'm going to be happy and really concerned about I hope playing in Doha, The Championships, in the next few years. 

 Q.  On the scoring rules, scoring will be just like the men do now:  no-ad scoring in doubles with a super tiebreak in the third set.  Do you have any views? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Opinion?  No. 

 Q.  What does it feel like to move through Wimbledon so quietly?  Do you prefer it that way? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, I think it's been good for me this week.  I had pretty easy matches, but it was good coming from Eastbourne.  I was a little bit tired at the beginning of the week. 
 I could do very good things during my first three matches.  Especially today I'm very happy the way I played, very aggressive, very consistent.  It's been pretty good. 
 It's going to be a long weekend now, but I'm glad I'm in the fourth round. 

 Q.  11 games in 2 hours and 8 minutes on court.  Pretty impressive. 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Yeah, it's okay.  It's not too bad.  It's good numbers.  My next match is going to be different.  We have to start again every day. 
 It's good I don't spend a lot of time on the court because physically I really need to rest a little bit.  Yeah, it's going to be good for my next match, I hope. 

 Q.  Have you played Centre Court this year so far? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  I played my second round. 

 Q.  You played the last couple matches on the outside courts? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  First on 1, second on centre, today on 2. 

 Q.  Is there much talk in the changing rooms today about what's happened in central London with the bomb that was found? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Not that much.  Everyone heard about that, but I didn't see a lot of players in the locker room with my preparation of the match and everything.  Yeah, not enough time. 

 Q.  Does it make you nervous about being here? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  No, not at all. 

 Q.  Apart from tennis, do you have any special abilities or party tricks you're able to pull out when you're not on the court? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  You cannot imagine (smiling).  I sing so well, it's just... 
 No, you know, I just live a normal life.  I've been lucky that I was born with this talent to play tennis.  You cannot be talented in everything, unfortunately.  I would love to sing well.  That's my frustration.  No, no, no.  I don't cook that much.  It's not a big talent either. 
 No, I just live normally.  Only for tennis that it's been a little bit different. 

 Q.  Have you noticed any other players that do? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  No, not really.  Not something that I can tell you now. 

 Q.  Amélie Mauresmo has sort of struggled this year.  You played her very recently.  How would you assess her level?  Do you consider her in the top group of players that can win this tournament? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  She's getting better.  She had pretty tough time with her surgery also and everything.  I'm sure it's not easy to come back after that. 
 She's been a little bit in trouble, but that happens to a lot of people, a lot of players.  It looks like on grass she's getting much better now.  When I played her in Eastbourne, I could feel she was getting much better on the court. 
 I think she's in confidence in Wimbledon.  She loves this tournament so much.  Who knows what can happen.  She's one of the players who could go to the end. 

 Q.  Do you ever allow yourself to think about what it would be like to win here? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Not really, no.  I don't lose that much energy.  Maybe I see that as a motivation.  That would be, yeah, an amazing achievement.  Dreaming of that is not going to help me.  Now it's too late.  I'm in the tournament and I have to be at my best level all the time. 
 I still believe I can do it, but it's not an obsession for me.  I don't think that much about that.  I just want to enjoy every moment.  I enjoyed my match a lot today, being on the court.  I don't have anything to prove to anyone.  I know how well I can play.  I know my results in the past. 
 That would be great, but that wouldn't make me more happy probably for my real life after tennis.  We'll see what's going to happen. 

 Q.  Would the achievement be more than winning the French Open for you? 
 JUSTINE HENIN:  It would be a great achievement because it means I would win the four Grand Slams.  That's the only thing. 
 I love this tournament.  I like to be here.  I think it's a great atmosphere.  We can feel something different.  But Paris remains the place where my heart is beating pretty hard. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT