SONY ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2007
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.   
  
  Q.  How was that type of match to end on a challenge like that?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  It's a great feeling.  I was pretty sure the ball was good, and the umpire was saying that the ball was probably good, so it was a good challenge.   
 But yeah, it's been a tough one.  I've been brave, I've been a fighter, and even if -- it wasn't a very good first set I would say.  I played a good tiebreak and then the level of the game improved a little bit in the second set.  There was a better fight for sure.   
 I had a lot of trouble on my return, but I served pretty good on the important points and could feel my game a little bit better in the second set, so happy to be for the first time in the semifinal and to win against a top player gives me a lot of confidence.   
  
  Q.  Sometimes after a player has a close call early in the tournament they start to feel pretty good, and though you didn't face matchpoint the other day you were down 5-1.  How do you feel about how you're playing overall?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  I'm not playing my best tennis, that's for sure, but I keep fighting on every point, and that's more important to have a good attitude than being 100 percent in your tennis.   
 But not being really positive, and I just try to win match after match and keep fighting.  It's great.  Miami hasn't been very successful for me in the past.  The first time for me in the semis, so I'm glad I'm still here on Thursday.   
  
  Q.  What do you think the difference is, because maybe you didn't play Indian Wells but you played last year?   
 JUSTINE HENIN:  Well, physically I've been in trouble last few days, but I just tried to get better day after day.  I don't know if the fact that I didn't play Indian Wells helps me a lot because it's tough for me to be for a couple of weeks far from home.   
 When I was younger it was okay, but now I don't like to travel that much and I need some rest.  My body is not ready, also, to play so many tournaments.  It's better I think like this for me, and it's going to be better, I hope, in 2009 with the Roadmap.  It's going to help me to stay healthy, also.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT