SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 11, 2006
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Congratulations for the victory, how do you feel? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Very lucky.  I think it was a good match.  I was very, very aggressive.  I had a lot of motivation.  I served pretty well.  And, yes, I went to the net.  I took the opportunities and I felt that I always had the control of the match.  I've been a little bit nervous at the end to conclude the match.  But very happy the way I played.  Very happy about a lot of things, and it's the last event of the season.  I'm in the final and it's good. 

 Q.  (Inaudible) 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I don't know.  It's two players.  They want the same thing and who knows what's going to happen.  I don't have any answer for that. 

 Q.  In your match, when you're playing, you scream a lot.  You and all the players? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Less than Sharapova. 

 Q.  Can you make for my TV program scream your best scream, please? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No.  I'm not in the situation to do that. 

 Q.  Just a little? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, no.  I'm too shy for that. 

 Q.  Justine, just talk about the mental process to lose, you know, last night and then come back so quickly, strange situation as a tennis player to lose a match and then come back and have another big match so quick.  What did you tell yourself after yesterday's match? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's a very difficult situation.  The key for me yesterday was that I came out of the court and I said, okay, there were many positive things and just try to take this positive and build something strong for tomorrow. 
 So I just turned the page very quickly.  I knew what I did right.  I knew what I had to improve if I wanted to win today. 
 And you know I'm a competitor.  So when I play for nothing, like yesterday, it's probably harder for me. 
 Today I know there were a lot of things.  It was a match and a match, and I knew it and we discussed it with Carlos before walking on the court.  And I was able to give my best and I'm very happy about that.  I felt great physically on the court and I was very calm.  I knew what I was going to do on the court and I was ready for a good fight and I'm very happy about that. 

 Q.  You served also much better than in points yesterday.  Was there anything you changed? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Carlos just told me do seven volley first point of the match and go, move forward, take the opportunities. 
 That's what I did.  It was my only chance to win was to come to the net and that's what I did in the first game of the match.  I think that was one of the keys because he felt I was ready to fight and I was ready to win this match. 
 And I felt she was a little bit nervous especially in the first set, the beginning of the match.  She was playing much better in the second, when she came back from 5-3 to 5-All she was playing better.  I was a little bit nervous at that time but I did a very good match, very happy. 

 Q.  The few matches you've had trouble closing, when you serve for the match and you lost your serve, what was going through your mind? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Well, it's not easy after a few weeks off, you know, and it's been, everyone was talking a lot about that match.  So it was normal -- I had a little trouble at the end, but finally at 5-0, I had a good service game.  Tiebreak, two aces, I served pretty well at that time.  So it's okay if you lose a game or two, but you just have to give everything in the few games after and that's what I did. 

 Q.  Do you feel like you deserve to be number one? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Well, I have a feeling I had a great season, so I don't know, probably a few players that deserve it.  It's going to be me and I'm very happy about that.  It's not easy to go to the four finals of the Grand Slams and that's what I did and I've been very consistent and I've been in the final again.  So I think I did deserve it, yes. 

 Q.  Justine, you've got something on your leg, behind your leg.  What's that? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's for the look.  That's it.  I think it looks pretty. 

 Q.  It looks like victory? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yes, V, victory, [Chuckling].  No, it's tape for my injury.  That's it. 

 Q.  Reaching for Grand Slam finals is an amazing feat.  We've seen it in men's tennis this year with Roger Federer.  Can you put an perspective on the fact he reached all four and actually won three, how incredible that is? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE: It's amazing what Roger is doing.  I wish I had the same this year, winning three Grand Slams.  It's fantastic.  He's so strong mentally, and I've been pretty strong but not enough in these moments, and I'm very happy to be for the first time in my career in the final of the championships.  That means a lot to me because it's the end of the season.  It's not the surface where I feel the most comfortable and I proved a lot of things to myself this week. 
 So, yes, 2006 is almost done and when I look back I see only good things even when I think about my tough matches in the Grand Slam finals.  I think it's probably the best season of my career and I will enjoy it in the next two months. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT