SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 10, 2006
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Justine, did you run out of gas in that match a little bit?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Maybe a little bit at court side.  But I just remained very positive right now after two months off and no competition in the last few weeks, I think what I did during two sets was pretty good except for my serve, I did serve pretty bad today and that was one of the keys.   
 But in the game I think that I couldn't be happier what happened on the court.  I tried to take all the positive things for tomorrow and I turn the page and during some moments during the match it was a pretty good level, I did use a lot of my forehand.  I did go into the net.  It was a bit harder, I was a bit tired and the match tomorrow, it's not easy.  But I'm happy the way everything is going right now.   
  
  Q.  Looks like you may play Maria, which would be for number one.  Is that a big motivation for you now that you can say okay if I win this match I'm number one?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's going to be a semifinal, the issue, who knows about that.  So I prefer to be focused on how I can win this match.  It's going to be hard enough like this.  So if I start to think about this and everything, I'm sure it's going to be harder for me.  So just try to stay focused on the tournament, the championships we'll see next week what's happening.   
  
  Q.  It's a strange situation to be in where there's a match you're playing that you afford to lose, it hardly happens.  Did that affect your motivation?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Not at all.  I think I walked on to the court to win the match.  I proved it during two sets.  I had a lot of motivation.  I played well during two sets.  It wasn't good enough at the end but, no, I think I'm looking after confidence and I'm looking after playing a lot of tennis and that's what I had the last few days so it's not easy to come back at this level in such a short period of time.   
 It was a tough challenge for me to come here and see if I was at a good level, and I did compete with the best players in the world, and it's not finished yet, and I have another opportunity tomorrow.   
 So I think that's fantastic when I look back two weeks ago where I was and I'm probably not 100 percent, but that's not why I'm not leaving everything on the court and I'm very happy and proud about it.   
  
  Q.  You say you're not 100 percent, do you mean your calf or just overall physically not able to do --   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You cannot pretend to be 100 percent when you didn't play for a couple of weeks.  So -- when I go to a tournament, usually I have a match or two to come into good rhythm.  Here you have to play your best in the first matches.  It's not easy.  And I did it.  So probably with a few more matches that's a match I may have won tonight.  So it's okay.  I'm in a good way.  It's the last tournament of the season.  I gave everything.  The goal was to play the championships.  Here I am.  I'm qualified for the semis, so I can only be happy about that.   
  
  Q.  You have a very good record against most of the top 10.  Amelie has been problematic this year.  What is it about her game that is difficult for you?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  She's playing a different game from the other players in the top 10.  She's a good player and she proved it this year.  She came to another level; and, yes, so it's always tough.  She's changing the rhythm all the time and she did serve very well.  She served great and she took the opportunities, especially at the end of the second set.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT