SONY ERICSSON CHAMPIONSHIPS
November 7, 2006
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Hi.  Well done.  
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Thank you. 

 Q.  Do you think the second set was just a lack of match practice or is that generally a very satisfying win? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Well, I played a very good first set.  I was a bit surprised the level I had after a few months off.  I think it was a good game.  I was playing, and then slowly I started to be far from the baseline in the second set and I lost the intensity a little bit of my concentration at the end of the second set.  It's not easy to conclude this kind of match after a few weeks off, and with all the tension and everything.  
And then she was in the corner and I was too far from my baseline.  So I wasn't in a good rhythm anymore and then I came back, played a pretty good tiebreaker.  But I needed a little bit of time to be really in the match again.  
In the third set I started to play down the line again and technically it was much better, and I did move forward, went to the net so I knew that there was, what I had to do but it's not easy to do during the whole match. 

 Q.  Congratulations.  You haven't played since September.  How did you feel tonight?  
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Well, it's great to be back on the court.  It's an amazing feeling.  Very happy to play again, play here at the championships.  It was a very important goal for me, and so I'm feeling great that there was a kind of match I needed and I'm happy I did win it. 

 Q.  Do you hope to finish like the number one at the end of this championship? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's not right now my main goal.  I'm happy to be back on the court.  I go step-by-step, match after match.  The first one is done.  Another one in two days.  So, yes, I'm just staying focused on what's really important and it's going to be my match against Petrova next and we'll see what's going to happen. 

 Q.  Do you feel fit enough now? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Well, I felt good during this match.  I think I did move pretty well.  Hingis is the kind of player, it's great to get in a good rhythm with her.  She gives you a little bit of time.  She's very smart, but you have time to organize your game, and it's going to be another good test for me against Petrova.  So you know what, it's not easy to come in this kind of tournament without any preparation, and the thing that I keep finding on every point is the main important thing and I proved it many times in the past.  
So I don't have anything to prove to anyone in this tournament, just to enjoy my game on the court, that's it. 

 Q.  I don't think many of us have seen the kind of bandage you had on your right leg.  Can you explain what it does? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's just for the look.  I think it looks great.  So in black, you know, I had the possibility to take another color, but I said black is just good.  It's just so that the players are scared a little bit.  
But, it's a good protection after my injury I had on my calf and it gives me confidence.  I don't know if it's in my head or if it's really helped me, but I know it's working, and that's the main thing. 

 Q.  (French). 
FastScripts by ASAP Sports 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT