US OPEN
September 9, 2006
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. Q. Congratulations on your fourth final of the year in a Slam. What went on [], do you think? JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: I think she played much better than I did tonight. She played a good match, I have to agree with that. She served much better. I gave her too much time, you know, to organize her game. I played too short. Not aggressive enough. At this level, you don't have the choice. I mean, she proved it. She served really well. She didn't give me a lot of opportunities. We could feel a lot of difference in her return and my return. So, yeah, I just tried to keep fighting on every point, but she was just the best tonight.Q. Obviously, you have beaten her the last four times. Was there something demonstratively improved in her game tonight?JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: She played very consistent. She served better than she probably did in our last meetings. She took her chances. I mean, she had very good shots. She played a lot down the line. She was in good shape tonight. It was tough for me. Q. Many players say that it's almost easier or it's less disappointing to lose a match like this one where you were simply outplayed than a very difficult three set match. Is that true? JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: I don't know. It's tough to say. I think the second place is always the most difficult one. Yeah, you always disappointed to lose any way. I mean, it's not a nice feeling, but I will have time to think about that. And I had a good couple of weeks. Unfortunately, that ends a way I don't like that much, but it doesn't depend only of me; it depends also of opponent. She's been really strong today, and I just have to accept that.Q. Great year for you, though. I know you must be disappointed now. But talk about reaching four finals in one year. JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: Yeah, it's been great season for me. It's not over yet. I could not have expected these results. I've been pretty consistent during the whole year. The thing is that I'm still healthy, pretty healthy right now, and I hope I can play a few more tournaments and then the championship. That remains one of the goal of the season. I didn't play the championships in the last two years, so that's great. I'm qualified, and I hope I can play good tennis over there. Yeah, I was saying 2006 would be a year of transition. It's the first year since 2003 I can play a whole season. At the end of the season, I can make conclusions and see how I'm gonna what my plans are gonna be for next year.Q. I know you were struggling with your back in the semifinal. Did that bother you at all?JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: No, no, no. Was feeling better today. No excuses about anything. Q. Maria has developed quite a complex ritual at the service line, some of us were noting it today. It's slower than most players. Is that difficult to wait out? JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: No, I don't think so. I think we both had very attitude on the court, and didn't notice at the beginning it was pretty long, but she has the right to take her time. I think that she did it the good way. So I don't have to complain about that. Q. You said that Maria played more consistent, she took more chances in this match versus the previous four matches which you had won. What was different in your game today versus those last four matches? JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: Yeah, I couldn't play that long today. I couldn't play that aggressive. She had a lot of time, and she was going for the winners. She did come to the net. I didn't. Sometimes it's like this. Even if you know you have to do it, it's not easy to do it in every match. So she's been brave tonight, and more than me. That made a big difference. FastScripts by ASAP Sports...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT