US OPEN
August 31, 2006
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.Q. That was satisfying, right? JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: Yeah, it's always good to win, especially the level in the first set I think was pretty good. I played pretty consistent and went a lot to the net. Had pretty good percentage of serve, first serve for me, 62% percent I think is not too bad. And, yeah, I think she's a good player. She was hitting the ball good. I had to be very consistent and focus on every point, so I'm happy especially with the first set today.Q. Do you think people, players who have never played you before, sometimes are surprised with how hard you hit the ball? They don't expect that? JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: I don't know, but I also have the feeling that now they not scared. You know, they have nothing to lose. So I think it changed a lot from the past when a player like that was playing a seeded player, maybe she was a little bit afraid, nervous. Now it's not happening anymore. They take their chances. They try to be very aggressive because they know that's what they have to do if they want to win. But, no, it's been good to me.Q. Do you like short games in the first, second rounds that you don't spend that much time on the court?JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: I don't have to like it or not like it, it's the way it is. You just have to win every match you play, and that's it. I think you try to do what you have to do in the court, try to find the good feelings, the good rhythm. A win like this is for sure better because physically you're not going to find your limits, which is good. In the other hand, sometimes I had tough matches in the first rounds in Grand Slams and I won them. So no rules about that. Yeah, we'll see. Q. You had a few serves that looked like you had maybe some shoulder pain. Is anything going on?JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: No, no. Q. Almost like you were falling off a no? JUSTINE HENIN HARDENNE: No. FastScripts by ASAP Sports...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT