PILOT PEN TENNIS
August 24, 2006
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 Q.  Two quick matches. 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, it's good.  I'm a bit sore, you know, because first matches on hard court, I'm a bit tired everywhere.  It's not easy after six weeks off, but it's good to have this kind of match. 
 It was very different today from what it was yesterday.  Yesterday a lot of rhythm, Spanish style.  And today, no spin at all.  It was tough for me because she did put on me a lot of pressure, especially at the beginning of the match. 
 But I knew it was going to be tough.  She can be very dangerous player.  I think she proved it.  Even if the score is pretty easy, 6-2, 6-3, I think I had to fight pretty much. 
 Happy the way it started here in New Haven.  That gives matches, that gives confidence for next week. 

 Q.  Knee feels fine? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, I mean, I'm a bit sore everywhere, so I probably compensate a little bit.  Right now I'm very happy to be back on the court.  I'm going to have another good match tomorrow, another opportunity against a really tough player, so it's going to be a good test for me for the US Open. 

 Q.  Talk about playing Svetlana. 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, we know each other pretty well.  We played each other a couple of times.  It's always been great fights.  She's very nice person.  I like her very much.  We have good relationship.  There is a lot of respect between the two of us. 
 When we on the court, it's a different story.  We both want to win.  Only one is going to win tomorrow.  But we played very good matches in the past, always very close.  She's a real fighter.  She's hitting the ball very hard, very heavy.  She's strong.  She can do a lot of things on the court.  She's pretty aggressive. 
 I will for sure have to play my best tennis if I want to win this one. 

 Q.  You've dominated the series against her.  Do you have an explanation? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I've been very consistent in the past when I had to play against her.  But tomorrow is another match.  Even if I have a good record against her in our last meetings, I think I lost only once.  But it doesn't mean anything right now 'cause tomorrow is going to be other conditions, depends of so many things. 
 Yeah, I've had very good results against her.  But the past is the past.  I just need to stay focused on what is going to happen tomorrow. 

 Q.  Have you gotten everything you wanted to out of this tournament? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think it's good.  I always played two matches.  I'm going to have a really good one tomorrow against a top player.  I enjoy my time here in New Haven.  It's great organization.  That's perfect preparation for me before the US Open. 
 I'm not a big fan of playing the week before a Grand Slam, but that's the way it is this year.  I had a little bit of trouble in the last few weeks and couldn't play.  So it was a great opportunity that the tournament gave me a wildcard to come and play here.  It's been very important for me. 

 Q.  Will you become a bigger fan of playing the week before if you were to go on and win the Open from here? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  You know, I played well in Sydney, played well in the Australian Open.  Eastbourne, Wimbledon, played well.  Even if I lost in the final both times, I think I had great tournaments this year. 
 US Open for me in the past, it's been pretty amazing, I won or lost fourth round all the time.  I just won in 2003.  Except for that, I lost fourth round every year.  It's mixed feelings about this.  I hope it's going to be a good year for me.  We'll see what's going to happen. 
 Mentally I'm fresh.  That's a good thing for me.  We will see.  It's pretty wide open this year so it's going to be interesting. 

 Q.  What kind of career goals do you have right now?  Are you looking to get back to No. 1?  Are you looking for a certain number of Grand Slams?  What inspires you to play? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I love what I do.  Even if it's the first round in a tournament like this or a Grand Slam final, I just love being on the court.  Every time I walk on the court, it's good to give my best, try to play my best tennis, try to win, really enjoy it.  If I can stay healthy, that's the main important thing.  Yeah, then we will see.  Coming back No. 1, not right now. 
 I don't want to think too much about that.  When I thought about that in the past, I was wrong 'cause it cannot drive me.  That's not what is my main goal right now.  Every time I walk on the court, it's try to win the match.  Day after day I have to build that. 
 Yeah, Grand Slams for sure, it's always big goals.  I have a couple of victories in Grand Slams now.  I hope I'll get more.  I have a fantastic career so far.  I couldn't dream of it.  It was too much for me.  It's amazing what I live right now. 

 Q.  How do you find the time to do all the charity things off the court that you do? 
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, unfortunately I don't have the time I wish I would have to really get more involved in it.  When I'm not in the tournaments, I try to make it really something priority, something very important for me.  As soon as I can, I meet the kids.  That's fantastic.  They gave me a lot of good things.  I hope that I will have more time in the future.  That would be something I would love to get more involved after my career.  I think that gives a sense to what I do. 

 End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT