WIMBLEDON
July 8, 2006
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  Q.  You seemed to be playing quite well.  Can you talk me through what happened after the first set?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, it's just for sure disappointed to lose that way.  I played a solid first set and then lost a little bit my concentration on a few points, and then there was this break.  I tried to stay in the set.  It was only one break at the time.  I came back at 4-3 and she was playing better at that time.  But, uhm, I wasn't aggressive enough, and the match turned completely.   
 So in the third set I really tried to stay in the match, and I kept fighting to the end but she kept serving well.  There is nothing to say.  She took more opportunities than me.  She's been more consistent on her serve.  I didn't serve very good today.   
 So, uhm, it's a bit hard, but it's okay.   
  
  Q.  The last shot, that's not normally one you would miss.  Can you take us through that last point.   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, you know, we don't have to look at one point in the match.  It's a matchpoint, so it's not the problem.  I mean, today I wasn't playing my best tennis - far from that.  That's the kind of day that happens, and you need to accept it and to move forward.   
 I tried to stay positive.  I wasn't maybe fresh enough to win this match, I don't know.  She has been more solid than me, and that's it.   
  
  Q.  Health-wise, how were you feeling out there today?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Tired.   
  
  Q.  Very tired?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Now I'm very tired because I know it's over.  No, it's been, you know, in the last six weeks I played five of them, two Grand Slams, and a tournament between them.  No regrets about that.  I played 18 matches.  Generally, very good tennis.   
 So it's a bit hard to lose in the final here, for sure, but I have to keep what went pretty well in the last few weeks.  I played a lot, so now I will need a little bit of break.  It's been pretty tough emotionally, mentally maybe more than physically in these last few weeks.   
  
  Q.  You would know better than almost anybody how tough it is to pull off this double from Paris to here.  Of course Nadal is hoping to do that tomorrow.  Just how tough is it?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Oh, I was pretty close to do it, so it means it is possible.  But, yeah, I was just a set away from that.  You know, it turned away.  I think I can do it.  I could do it.  But that's the way it happened.  I'm not gonna change it now anymore.   
 It is difficult, for sure, because it's two Grand Slams and it's a lot of pressure.  Two Grand Slams in a month, it's pretty hard.  So that's the most difficult thing in these two tournaments.   
  
  Q.  What are the emotions in the transition from Roland Garros to here?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think I've been pretty good at turn the page from the French Open and get focused on here.  I wanted so much to win here, but doesn't happen this year so I'll come back.   
 But emotionally, I've been feeling very well in the last few weeks.  Today was a bit harder, bit harder to play my good tennis, so it's tough.   
  
  Q.  The fact that the weather was relatively warm for the two weeks, did that have anything to do with your physical condition?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No.   
  
  Q.  Are there things you will take from this fortnight into the rest of the season, for example?  You played a very attacking game here.  Could you see yourself doing that on hard courts, for example?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I will have to try to do this, keep the same way.  Today I tried to do it again, but it was too late in the third set.  I was playing very aggressive in the first set, and then as soon as I became a little bit too defensive, the match turned.  And then when I did it again, I was coming back in the match, but it was a bit late.  It's the kind of things I have to keep working on it, for sure.   
  
  Q.  Were you surprised and impressed by how Mauresmo held her serve when she got a break up in the third and serving for the match?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, I think that she -- her victory at The Championships last year, Melbourne, and her results gave her a lot of confidence.  But it's true that she never, you know, came down on her serve.  She was serving great.  A lot of first serves.  That's been probably the biggest difference between us today.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT