NASDAQ-100 OPEN
March 24, 2006
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  How much has your knee been bothering you lately?  Has that affected you today?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, my knee didn't affect my game today.  I think that she played really well and I wasn't at my best.  I miss a little bit of confidence, so you play more neutral, more in the middle than going for the winners and everything.  We both served pretty well during the whole match, but then I've been broken twice in pretty big games.  That was it.   
 I mean, it's not easy to lose that way, and not easy to accept, but that's the way it is.   
  Q.  She's had some struggles I guess the last couple of years.  What was she doing right today?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think she, yeah, played much better than she did in the last, I don't know, few months or few years.   
 But when she was at the top, I mean, she was playing the way she played today probably, and she didn't do a lot of mistakes.  She served great.  I mean, couldn't have a breakpoint.  She was serving very well.   
 Then, yeah, not as many mistakes as she's usually doing, so that's why she didn't give me a lot of opportunities.  I haven't been aggressive enough to create these opportunities, so deserved it, to win.   
  Q.  Your confidence, was it high before this tournament or this match?  Has that been suffering lately?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, it's just, yeah, the fact that I lost in Indian Wells this way didn't help for sure, and then I had a tough first round here.  It wasn't an easy draw for me to begin with, you know, in this situation.   
 So, yeah, it's something that I already live in the past and sometimes you miss some confidence.  It happens to everyone.  I will have the time to get ready on clay and try to play my best and come back at my best level.   
  Q.  Bearing in mind the physical problems that you've had in the past, do you sometimes think with a defeat like this it will give you a week off and a chance to rest?   
 JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Well, you don't think that way when you lose, but, yeah, I mean, you have to take something positive from every situation, even if it's not easy.   
 But I will have some time now to think about that and get some rest and then get ready and having a good preparation for the clay.   
  
  End of FastScripts...  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT