AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 20, 2006
Justine Henin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Justine, please.  
 
 
Q.  It must be good for your confidence to get a comfortable win like that?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, it's very good.  I was a little bit scared about this match because I know she can be a dangerous player if you let her play, if you give her a lot of rhythm.  That's what happened in the beginning of the match.  But as soon as I started to mix it up a little bit more, I think I've been very consistent, pretty solid.  So happy the way I won, yeah.  
 
Q.  You happy to play with the roof closed?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Very happy, yeah.  They just told us two minutes before walking on court.  So at the beginning, I think it was tough to get used to it because it's pretty different conditions.  But I think it was much better for both of us and for the crowd also.  It was very, very hot today.  I have a lot of respect for Santoro and Gaudio after what they did in five sets.  Because I think in this heat, it's very hard, yeah.  
 
Q.  How were the conditions?  Was it stuffy?  Was it cooler?  Did it make a big difference for you?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It was very humid.  That was the hardest for both of us.  It was pretty hot at the beginning and then started to cool down a little bit after one set.  But you just have to get used to the lights and everything.  It's a little bit faster.  No wind.  So good conditions, but when you played outdoor for couple of matches, you need a couple of games to get used to it. 
 
Q.  What about the Gaudio-Santoro match?  Do you think when the temperature reaches the limit for closing the roof, they should close it regardless of whether the match is over, or should the match be finished? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  It's tough to say.  I think there is a rule and it's normal that there is a rule because that change everything during a match.  I don't know what's the best for the players.  But I'm sure that if they keep this rule, it means that it's probably better for the players this way.  But I don't know.  
 
Q.  What about your next opponent? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Well, I don't know if -- yeah, I played her at the French Open and also here at the Australian Open a few years ago.  So she's a dangerous player.  She's very, very consistent.  Very regular.  Once in a year she's playing very well in a Grand Slam usually.  So I think I played her in the fourth round or in the quarters here a few years ago.  She has a game, very special game.  She is playing a lot of slices, and that doesn't give too much rhythm.  A lot of topspin in her forehand and a lot of slices on her backhand side.  So I'll have to be very focused, very patient, and try to bend my game as I did today and better than I did in my last match (smiling).  
 
Q.  How are you feeling with your fitness at the moment? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I think I improved a lot in the last few weeks.  You know, still a few weeks ago I didn't know if I was going to be able to come here in Australia with my hamstring problem.  Now it's feeling great.  I feel very lucky that I'm here, so I try to take the advantage of that.  Just try to enjoy my game.  I came here in Australia to play a lot of matches.  That's what I have.  Every match is bonus for me, when I get the chance to play another match.  It's great for my confidence.  It's very good to be back healthy on the courts.  That makes a big difference.  I feel I'm moving well.  Just my shoulder is still bothering me a little bit, but I think that I'm pretty quick on the court so that's good.  
 
Q.  Do you think your hamstring is in better shape than Serena's? 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  That's not my -- I don't have to answer this question.  
 
Q.  You said your shoulder was causing problems?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  Yeah, my shoulder is sore from couple of -- now from the beginning of the tournament.  I could feel it a little bit in the second set today just when I'm serving.  But it's the kind of things you have to deal with, I think.  Every player has a little problem in a Grand Slam in one match.  So I think we know that very often, and I hope I'll be better next match. 
 
Q.  Sorry.  Which shoulder was it?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  The right one.  
 
Q.  Have you seen any of Martina Hingis' matches here in Australia?
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  I played her, so for sure I saw one of her match.  
 
Q.  I was going to ask you to compare it to when you played her. 
 
JUSTINE HENIN-HARDENNE:  No, I didn't watch her play.  I didn't watch any match.  I don't want to watch any match of anyone here.  I just want to stay focused on myself.  In the evenings I watch DVDs, but not tennis on TV.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT