NHL ENTRY DRAFT
June 26, 1999
Patrik Stefan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. After all the talk about your concussions, people saying that's going to hurt you,
your draft position, then to finally be picked first overall, what is your feeling with
that?

PATRIK STEFAN: Right now, you know, it's unbelievable. I am so excited, so happy to be
No. 1. They talk about the concussion, my health. But I feel very, very well. Everything
is behind me right now. I just want to think about the future. 

Q. To be Atlanta's first ever draft pick comes with a bit of pressure. Are you ready
for that? 

PATRIK STEFAN: Yes, I'm ready for that. I just want to play hockey. I want to play for
this team, just help them. It's so great to be No. 1. I'm so happy for that. 

Q. Did your agent have some results of some latest tests? Do you think that had any
made any difference to convince Atlanta to draft?

PATRIK STEFAN: No. 

Q. When did you first become aware that a deal had been made or a few deals had been
made to give Atlanta the top pick?

PATRIK STEFAN: Can you say that again? 

Q. When did you first become aware that Atlanta had made a trade to move to the top
spot? 

PATRIK STEFAN: Just the second they say that. I don't know anything. I was surprised,
you know. I don't know what happened. I was so nervous. It comes true. It was my dream to
be No. 1. Atlanta can be a great team. They will be great team. I just want to be part of
them, you know. 

Q. Any hockey players that you followed that are currently playing in the National
Hockey League that you emulate or compare your style of game to at all?

PATRIK STEFAN: I think, like every hockey player, is different style, you know. But of
course I like some players like from Czech, Jagr, Hasek. My favorite hockey player is
Peter Forsberg, great hockey player. Like I say, everybody have different style. I don't
want to play like, you know, someone else.

Q. Knowing your history of concussions, do you think it will change the way you play at
all come next season? People say you might be a bit more tentative knowing that has
happened.

PATRIK STEFAN: Of course not. I will be same like I play before. After second one, I
was coming back, I play same game I play before. I'm not scared about, you know, going to
corner. Lots of persons have concussions, they come back. They are still great players.
That's what I be do.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT