TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2017
Mychealon Thomas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Mike, does anything change knowing that Darius Anderson may not play this week and he's out for the season, or do you just play the same?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: No, we still have the same focus for this week of practice, so nothing changed.
Q. On defense the other day (indiscernible) stop on fourth downs that you maybe play on third downs.
MYCHEALON THOMAS: They pulled the guard, so I knew I had to cross race on the tackle, and I cross raced at the right time and tried to make a play.
Q. What did they give you on fourth down?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: It just gave us confidence that we could do anything; that we still -- it gave us confidence that we can line up and we can go toe to toe with anybody.  That's what it did.
Q. Were you still needing that confidence at this point in the season?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: Yeah, because I feel like we were a little down from the losing streak that we had before the Baylor game.  So I feel like we needed the confidence to go into this game and the next one.
Q. What else stands out to you about TCU?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: I just know they have a good quarterback.  They had a good running back, but he's down right now so I don't know if he's playing.  They have good skilled players.  And the offensive line are beat.  So we have to be physical, have to get after those guys (indiscernible).
Q. Does it fire you up knowing you're playing a physical team, and what kind of mentality do you have to take into a game, kind of knowing you have to punch them in the mouth?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: I feel like we've been having that mentality.  I feel like we've been physical throughout most of the season.  So we've just got to step it up a little notch and get better at what we need to do from last film.  Just execute this week in practice.
Q. Kind of watching film, what makes (indiscernible) so difficult?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: Just he's got vision.  His jump cut is pretty good, and he's shifty.  He runs fast.  So that's probably the biggest thing.
Q. What's your thoughts about your last home game?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: It's emotional.  I have many thoughts right now.  I just want to finish the last home game with my brothers with a W, hopefully.  Just celebrate with them.
Q. When you took a recruiting visit here, was it on (indiscernible)?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: No, sir, it was after the season in January.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: I felt like it was home.  It's not that far from home.  I'm from Dallas, so it's easier for my mom to come see me play.  And Coach Spav and Coach Gibbs, I've been knowing those guys since they were at Houston.  And Coach Emmett Jones, I've been knowing him since Skyline, when he was the coach at Skyline.  So those three guys right there I had a close relationship with.
Q. Coach Spav and Coach Gibbs try to recruit you for U of H?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: Yes, sir.
Q. How pleased are you individually, what's better with your work this year from last year?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: I've been pretty good.  Last year I wasn't always playing like that.  I was playing behind Breiden Fehoko.  So this year I had to change my mentality and focus on what I needed to do, which was losing weight and getting faster and trying to get stronger.
Q. Where did the finger wag celebration start?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: I have no clue.  I don't know what game it was.  I think it was probably the Oklahoma State game or the Kansas game that started the finger wave.
Q. A lot of teams around the nation have some kind of defensive pull to get the juice going, whether it's the Miami chain or whatever.  Has Texas Tech thought about having something of their own?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: Not really.  We usually -- I wish we could do that, but they never thought about it.  They never bring it up.  So we just -- if we do make a play, we just celebrate with our teammates.
Q. No dancing?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: No, ma'am, no dancing.  I know you get penalized for taunting and stuff.  So no dancing.
Q. (Indiscernible) showing off the hands against K-State on that?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: I wish I could get some reps at tight end if Coach Kingsbury would let me, but I don't think he's going to let me.  So I'm going to stay on the defensive side of the ball right now.
Q. Maybe Senior Day?
MYCHEALON THOMAS: Hopefully he'll have some change of heart and he'll put me in on the go line or something.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT