ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 13, 2012
Jeff Bzdelik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Just looking at numbers, and maybe you see it differently in the games, but looks like Travis has had a difficult time in the conference.   He was playing so well pre‑conference, he has not been able to match it.   Is that because of the way he's being played or the competition or is it just a streaky thing. 
JEFF BZDELIK:   I think it's a combination of several factors.   I think No.1, I think that we haven't set good screens and physical screens, but that's not in our nature to be honest with you.   And so it sometimes is difficult to get guys open, that's No.1.
No.2, last year, I think that Travis played a lot of four for us, and now as it is a three‑man, which is primarily where he's been, as we have gotten into conference play, it's a work‑in‑progress for him to continue to work on his skill set, change over from‑‑ in high school, he played a lot inside. 
So he constantly is working on his game to improve his skill set, which will allow him to be more creative off the dribble, to create space for himself. 
We have tried posting him as a strong three‑man, to post him, but teams have sometimes triple‑teamed him, or double‑teamed him, so we have to get the ball out of his hands quickly to find others, which is the right thing to do.
You know, it's a combination of a lot of those things I think, and also, he's played a lot of minutes for us, and both have the three and the four because of our lack of depth, and so I think he's getting worn down a little bit, too. 
And I told him, too, he's also been a focal point to our opposition.   So all of those factors contribute to why I think that he's had a difficult time scoring consistently now, as opposed to earlier in the year. 

Q.   I wanted to ask you about the decline in the average home attendance in the ACC, which has been going on for about six or seven years, and that's league‑wide, wondering if you have any theory as to why that's the case, when other major conferences seem to be holding steady, and whether it might have something to do with conference expansion over the last several years. 
JEFF BZDELIK:   You know what all I can tell you from our standpoint right now, to be quite frank with you, from our standpoint, is if my team was playing better, we would simply have more people in the seats, from my standpoint.   And that's the truth. 
So from my perspective, that's the first thing that comes to mind.   You know, I haven't really given it much thought outside of just from our standpoint, that would be my answer to you.   We need to play better.   People will come out because that's the nature of the way this business works. 

Q.   As you go down the final games of the regular season, is there a thought to maybe giving a guy like Danny Green a few more minutes just to get those under his belt and help him through his next year and maybe‑‑ I know you're playing a lot of young players, but‑‑
JEFF BZDELIK:   You know, I think there's no question; that was actually a topic of conversation this morning when I met with my staff.
I think that Daniel, as you can see, had so much the last game but the couple of previous games, he was beginning to get more minutes. 
You know, our particular case, you take a player like Daniel in most cases, he would be a red‑shirt because what he needs to do is have his body have a little more maturity, and living in the weight room, just to catch up to his mindset, and his mindset is one of great intensity and great effort.   He battles, he's fearless and there's a lot of great qualities.   When his body gets stronger, he's going to be an impact player in a lot of ways towards winning a game. 
So, yeah, we are headed in that direction, no question. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT