ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
February 28, 2011
Jeff Bzdelik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. You've had a game against Georgia Tech and Iman Shumpert is having a terrific all around season for them. Talk about the problems, the myriad number of problems that he causes in preparing for them? 
 COACH BZDELIK: Well, he's a complete player. He has size, he has length. He can post you. He makes enough threes that you have to honor him. He drives it well. He moves extremely well without the ball. He's the type of player that doesn't allow his offensive game, particular game that moment affect his defense. He's always engaged defensively. 
 He can guard many players on the court defensively because of his length and because of the fact that he's extremely quick. He anticipates well and he works the offensive glass. He just a complete player, an outstanding young prospect. 

 Q. He leads the league in steals. How do you practice against that? What do you tell your guys when somebody's that good at stealing the ball to try to minimize that on your part? 
 COACH BZDELIK: Well, there are things we do in practice to be ball strong. But one of our issues has been the fact that we can't simulate the kind of length and quickness that our young players encounter on a daily basis. 
 When you have 50% of your team in college for the first time, yes, Carson Derosiers, for example, can finish around the rim in practice. But our walk-ons are 6'5", bless their heart. Now you get into a game and it's obviously different. 
 So it's the same thing in dealing with turnovers and executing our offense. I guarantee you today in practice we'll be ball strong and we'll execute. We'll go against each other and that kind of thing. Then come Thursday, it will be different from the standpoint just like it has been every game from that standpoint. 
 We're doing better with it. We understand now the quickness ask physicality and length that we encounter. But, again, practicing against it on a daily basis would certainly enhance our ability to handle it better. 

 Q. I understand you're holding an open practice today. I just wonder at this stage of the season, what is the thinking behind that? What is to be accomplished? 
 COACH BZDELIK: You know what, you'll have to ask somebody else. That was done by our marketing department to, I believe, it was my understanding to simply connect with fans that haven't been able to see you a team practice or might like to see a team practice. That's, from my understanding, the reason this was done.

 Q. Going into the last week of the regular season with a team that's obviously struggled on the record side, what is the one thing you're most looking for in this last week maybe other than a win or two? What are you looking to see from the tape? 
 COACH BZDELIK: Just every time you step on the court whether it be practice or in a game, just take advantage of the opportunity to get better. I don't care what the record is or what the circumstances are. It's another opportunity to grow as a basketball player individually and a team collectively. 
 We are playing better. The competition, obviously, is better. But we just need to continue as a team that's extremely young and inexperienced, to continue to improve and to prepare ourselves for our future. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT