ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
January 17, 2011
Jeff Bzdelik
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






		  
		   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Coach Bzdelik? 

 Q. I know you didn't come out okay in the last two games, but there were periods in both games where you seemed to be competitive. Do you see that increasing? Do you see progress even though it doesn't show up in the won/loss record? 
 COACH BZDELIK: Yes, I do. I do see progress. Our first couple of games, N.C. State, for example, is 46-40 in the second half. We have the basketball. We just -- it's 32-30 with 2:04 to go in the first half on the road. We just have lapses where just teams get on those quick 8-0 runs on us and just expand instead of us staying close and even taking the lead. 
 The Maryland game, same situation. It's a couple of possession game, a two-possession game in the second half then we just cave in. Yeah, I think that game it was 46-40, then it became 52-40. We missed some shots, turned the ball over, had defensive lapses. 
 We start off in the Virginia Tech game and we get off to a good start. But we just, if we go to the bench or whatever, it just seems there's a variety of things that we just have suffered a collapse and just played very poorly. You can't do that at this level. So there's moments and we need to have more of those moments. 

 Q. Obviously, Travis McKie has been pretty consistent for you, at least consistent for a freshman, and Terrell's had some good shooting games. But are any of the other freshmen showing signs that they're ready to play at this level? 
 COACH BZDELIK: Well, Carson had had 7 blocks and 9 rebounds against Maryland and Jordan Williams was 2 for 13 from the floor. Now we did put him on the line a lot. But 7 blocks and 9 rebounds for a freshman, he had opportunities around the rim to score, which will happen as he gains strength. He had an and one in the post against Jordan Williams. To me those are all very encouraging signs. 
 Then typical of a freshmen he really struggled against Virginia Tech. So, again, we're having some moments where we see really good positive signs, but that is typical of young players. You know, Melvin Tabb is the same way, he's starting to get back. He had mono and that really slowed him down. His conditioning is subpar right now and learning what we're doing. He's playing catch-up. Every once in a while you'll see what kind of talent he has as well. 
 Unfortunately, these freshmen have to play huge minutes for us. For example, Carson in the last two games I believe he's played 30 minutes-plus, Travis 30 minutes-plus, and we're counting on them in a big way. It's tough to grow up in this unforgiving league. 

 Q. Georgia Tech had been having an up-and-down season and then last night they really broke out and played very well in their own building this year. What have you seen about them that impresses you? 
 COACH BZDELIK: Well, they, I thought, played with great confidence last night. They were very confident. They were very aggressive. They were attacking. They were making shots. They were getting their hands on balls. As they made shots, their defensive energy became even more intense. They became even more confident. They have two outstanding performances by individuals. 
 We're catching them at a moment when they really have great confidence, especially in their own building. They were very impressive last night. 

 Q. In your days of the NBA, you probably saw Glen Rice, Sr. play. Did Glen Rice, Jr. remind you of him at all? 
 COACH BZDELIK: When I was with the heat we did have Glen Rice for a few weeks shall. He was part of that trade that changed the landscape of the Miami Heat. But at the same time I think his son, actually, to be honest with you, I think his son is perhaps might be a better driver than he was. 
 I think Glen was such a pure, consistent shooter, and I think his son, he shot the ball well yesterday. He is a little streaky, but really aggressive taking the ball to the hole. Lot of similarities, yes, no question. I had tremendous respect and have tremendous respect for his father. 

 Q. I wonder if there is any update on Tony Chennault?
 COACH BZDELIK: It's not a bother at all. Tony actually completed two practices. We're getting ready to step on the practice floor again here in a few moments. He will practice again today. 
 His foot is getting stronger every day. But at the same time we have to remember that these are the first -- this will be the third complete practice only of the year for him. So he has a lot of catching up to do from his conditioning standpoint and his knowledge of what we're doing so there is a lot of catching up to do before we feel he might be ready to play. 
 Then, again, we have to see just exactly if it's going to be worth it, depending on how many games he might be able to play to say should we play him this year or red shirt him so he gets another complete year. 
 So we're heading into a decision-making process here, but we're going to give it some time here before we even think about that. 
 He needs to get in shape. We need to make sure that his foot is responding appropriately after a daily pounding. And we need to see how well he can catch up in terms of what we're doing. So it is a day-by-day situation. And no bother in asking me. 
 I hope you don't have to ask me, and I hope you can just see him play because we certainly can use him. He's a very talented player, a true point guard. C.J. Harris is doing a wonderful job, but it's not his natural position, and that's really hurt us in a lot of ways in terms of taking care of the basketball. 
 And it's also taking away from C.J. Harris's game, which he has a great game in terms of being able to shoot the ball and come off screens. So having Tony Chennault there would be a great welcome back to our team. But we're moving on the side of caution and thinking about our future which is very bright and what's best for him. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT