135TH BELMONT STAKES
June 7, 2003
Jose Santos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tell us how you feel. 

JOSE SANTOS:  Anyway, I not feel disappointed at all about this horse.  He have a great run and over here and Belmont Stakes we try to win the Triple Crown to win the Triple Crown is very difficult, been 25 years since somebody win and I hope they don't take another 25 years because I want to win -- delay the Triple Crown, Funny Cide I don't I think he was handling the track day. This is not a cheap excuse, that the honest truth what I'm telling you guys, but I'm very proud of him.  He did his best, his best today, there was a horse supposed to win the Triple Crown and that horse was Empire Maker he only win the Belmont Stakes, and Funny Cide, he win the more important race was the Kentucky Derby and he win the Preakness, today, he will be back, he be back in what back (inaudible) today run, I be riding him.  We caught a good track and you guys want to see Funny Cide run. 

Q. Look like your family took it harder than you did? 

JOSE SANTOS:  I've been riding for 27 years I've been riding a lot of big races, you can't be disappointed why you going to beat yourself.  The horse not there.  Nothing you can do about it.  And I am proud of him no matter.  If he finish last I still be proud of him.  And I'm very, very happy for all the support New York people give to this horse.  I never see something like it.  We have 100,000 people screaming for Funny Cide and especially for my people from the country, from my country, and I know my family and children was a little disappointed but they have a smile now.  They know I come back, and we want to give another try. 

Q. Speaking of Chile, we have a question in Spanish you can answer in Spanish can you repeat it in English. 

JOSE SANTOS:  She asked me when I was first couple times today finished third, what happened?  I told her that Bailey was saying that he was riding the best horse today right, and I know he was best today, we was the important race the Kentucky Derby, but we want going to face again, between Empire Maker and Funny Cide, and if it's a good track and going to be a very good.  He was asking my family was upset about it.  Why I'm not upset.  I'm telling her I'm not upset because I have experience in these kinds of races and we gonna get it next time. 

Q. Attendance today 101,864. 

JOSE SANTOS:  I think 864 was rooting for another horse. 

Q. When did you know that Empire Maker had you? 

JOSE SANTOS:  About a half mile. About a half mile.  When we hit the three eights, I was almost thinking, I hit it the time first time the five sixteenths pole and he kind of respond right away I get him by surprise, he respond, he went like for a sixteenth of a mile trying, after that he just went the same pace. 

Q. Can you tell us how the weather affected your performance today and the soggy fields? 

JOSE SANTOS:  Well, definitely I thought that he would handle in the slop better, and when we went the first turn and he was going nowhere.  He was switching back and forth and I know I was in big trouble, and you know but he's a great horse, Funny Cide is still, though he was not handling the track, he finished really good, third. 

Q. Was he fighting against you a little bit? 

JOSE SANTOS:  Well, he was in the race, he did in the beginning, he got a great job out the gate and he was relaxing very good, but what I don't like he was switching back and forth around the first turn and I know I was in trouble there. 

Q. If you had the race to run over would you do anything differently than you did today? 

JOSE SANTOS:  Yeah, I keep mother nature away. 

Q. Jose, what about the workout, the very fast workout earlier in the week, did that have any affect on him today wanting to go to the lead as fast as he did? 

JOSE SANTOS:  He did (inaudible) but very soft, he work real fast, and I know there was going to be you know a lot of controversy about the work, but I always say good horses work fast and I don't blame the trainer a bit, he did his best to win the VISA Triple Crown is very difficult test and you know we don't make it, I mean, we win the first two and finish third in the last one, but you know in my book Funny Cide is my champion. 

Q. Briefly in English? 

JOSE SANTOS:  She asked me about, she asked me if it was a mistake for me to go to the lead.  I told her it was not a mistake because the only thing I'm blaming the track, he was not handling at all.  The Hispanic support I thought was incredible, unbelievable, and the New York support, it was the same way. 

Q. So you think this will become a rivalry now Funny Cide and Empire Maker? 

JOSE SANTOS:  I'm pretty sure, I'm pretty sure.  He beat me in the Wood I beat him in the Kentucky Derby, he beat me in the Belmont, I don't know maybe going to be a Travers or has going to be like the Haskell. Like two good boxers. 

Q. Jose, can you describe the experience of the last five weeks, even though you lost today, not the races specifically, everything that went with it.  What it's meant to you? 

JOSE SANTOS:  That was unbelievable, I never thought I would be in this position.  I was in the newspapers every day.  People followed me everywhere.  I have if Garden City Hotel that I was living for this last week because we want to promote the Garden City Hotel.  It was wonderful, I have a suite where Michael Jackson was there once. And that made me feel real good to have a lot of press for everybody.  I was nice to the press, and press was very nice to me, except a couple of guys from Florida, but I have a lot of fun.  I mean, I have to thanks to all you guys, because you guys made me feel very good, and I hope I made you guys feel real good too. 

Q. (Spanish) 

JOSE SANTOS:  Everybody was applauding Funny Cide and me, when I come back.  I say, you know there that was something unbelievable because I never see a horse get beat and there they were still cheering for me. 

Q. New York? 

JOSE SANTOS:  New York definitely. I think even though he it was people watching in Alaska or in another country, I think you know they're very happy and proud about Funny Cide because he make history.  I mean, he make history. 

Q. You mentioned about the rivalry with Empire Maker, at this point, does Funny Cide or Empire Maker deserve to have (inaudible) ? 

JOSE SANTOS:  Say that again. 

Q. The rivalry between Empire Maker and Funny Cide.  At this point is one at the head of the pack? 

JOSE SANTOS:  Definitely, I think there going to be a lot of talking in between the next race between Empire Maker and Funny Cide.  I mean, a lot of people want to be talking about them.  Want to be a lot of controversy back and forth.  I mean, we see what's going to happen, I think they going to be very interesting. 

Q. How does Funny Cide react.  Is there a sadness he feels?  Does the horse respond in that way? 

JOSE SANTOS:  Well, I'm pretty sure he knows he lose. 

Q. Can you tell -- 

JOSE SANTOS:  Yeah, he put his head down.  He probably was telling me, I'm sorry. (Spanish ). 

Q. Jerry Bailey:  "Funny Cide pulled on Jose, if they pull on you, they have nothing left."  ( Spanish )? 

JOSE SANTOS:  Definitely, we don't have nothing left because you know, when we got together about half a mile pole he was just going by me so easy, and when I ask to my horse to go, he was not there, but he was not there today but when we get together going to be different. 


Q. What did Barclay have to say when you rode back and met him after the race? 

JOSE SANTOS: He was definitely a little disappointed.  I mean, he work so hard.  I think everybody worked hard and is disappointed.  I'm a easy going guy.  He take it a little harder than me.  After he have dinner and he have a couple of drinks he's going to be okay. 


Q. Thank you guys.  Gracias? 

JOSE SANTOS:  Thank you guys, Gracias. 


End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT