BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 26, 2002
Jose Santos
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOSE SANTOS:  This is Jose Santos Jr., (His son) future rider, no doubt. 
 
 
Q.  Jose, this has been  -- one of the big stories in New York racing this year has been the rebirth of Jose Santos, a wonderful year after some down years, and now the ultimate comeback, a victory in the Breeders' Cup Classic.  Describe this whole year for you and what today means in the context of this already great year for you. 
 
JOSE SANTOS:  Well, I think this is one of the greatest gains on the way to being a jockey because we have a lot of upside down.  In the '80s I remember I was in the top for five, six years, and then I had a terrible fall in the '90s, and my business went down terribly.  Then this year again I started to get up, and believe me, it's like I'm rejuvenated.  I am having a blessing over here. 
 
Q.  Jose, was this mount yours from the beginning or was it Shaun Bridgmohn's?  He rode EVENING ATTIRE.  How did you wind up on VOLPONI today?  Did Shaun ask off or did you have it all along? 
 
JOSE SANTOS:  Well, no, Shaun rode in the Meadowlands Cup and he had a commitment there and I was riding him in the grass, and then Shaun get two mounts in the same race, so he obviously picked his best mount, which at the time was EVENING ATTIRE, I guess, and one of the favorites for the Classic, and VOLPONI don't have no mount, so my agent and I went to meet the Johnsons and he said you want to ride the horse, be my guest.  If he run in the Classic -- my first choice is to run in the Classic.  If he gets in you can ride it.  I know you've been riding some horses, and I was supposed to ride FORBIDDEN APPLE.  If you want to ride it you can ride it, too, in the mile race, but I was taking down FORBIDDEN.  I think the way this horse ran today he could have won either race, but he won the big one. 
 
Q.  It broke just ride for right for you in terms of getting a ride on him.  As the horses were turning for home and some of the early leaders were starting to be asked by the riders, it looked like you had a lot of horse under you and were just looking to run to daylight.  What did it feel like having the feeling under you at that point as you were turning for home?  Did you think you had it won in the back of your mind or are you saying to yourself, gosh, things feel good but I am 40 to 1? 
 
JOSE SANTOS:  I was not caring about that.  I'm probably going to sound a little crazy but I was on top of the horse and by the 5/8 pole I was having a pretty good feeling.  When WAR EMBLEM, jockey started looking for Bailey, he started pushing him to the upside a little bit and I called my horse right away to be prepared because I know he started rifting out and as soon as he was rifting out there was a huge hole and I said to my horse, here we go.  I said come and catch me and he just kept going and going.  I think the key of this horse to run a hell of a race is two things:  To put the blinkers back on.  He runs huge races every time he has the blinkers on.  I think the ground was the perfect condition for him because he likes a little moisture.  I used to ride his father CRYPTOCLEARANCE.  He was a wonderful model horse.  I'm on top of the world right now, believe me.  To win this race is wonderful.  I mean, a lot of people say, well, it's a lot of money.  I mean, a lot of money helps, but I think the prestige to be in this kind of race is more important. 
 
Q.  Jose, when you're on top of the world after the Classic how do you go out and get on the next horse?  You just won the 11th race with CAPSIZED for Lisa Lewis? 
 
JOSE SANTOS:  No pressure at all.  I was a very happy man.  My job is to ride horses, and I like to finish what I do, even if I win a $1,000 race or a $4 million race.  If I have a ride in the next race I like to go and show up. 
 
Q.  How did the race go?  Was there a certain way you expected it to go and did it pretty much follow that plan or did the race not good at all like you thought? 
 
JOSE SANTOS:  No, we expected there was going to be a very fast pace and definitely there were going to be four or five horses in front of us.  That's why Mr.  Johnson put the blinkers on this horse, so he can be a little more focused.  I mean, I was very happy in the ways that it was showing up in the first part of the race, you know, and I was in very good position saving all the ground at the first turn, and then when the half-mile pole came I moved to the third place, and I see Espinoza (ph) looking and looking and I was thinking something is going to open here.  Believe me, I could have gone around and won the race no matter what, but it made the race more exciting, I guess. 
 
Q.  Jose, you said that you sensed the horse was going to drift out and you prepared the horse to move.  How did you do that?  You sensed that WAR EMBLEM was going to draft out and kind of push MEDAGLIA D'ORO and you noticed that and instinctively decided to send VOLPONI through the opening.  How does a rider get to the point where he's able to do that? 
 
JOSE SANTOS:  I had a long hold on the horse and I picked him up a little bit and tapped him on the shoulder and he got on the bridle right away.  He was prepared to go.  I could have waited a little longer and gone to the outside and I think he was going to win the race no matter what, but I don't want to take a chance.  I mean, the hole was there, I fit there, so we went. 
 
Q.  Jose, during the downtime what was it that kept you going and kept you motivated?  There are always so many sacrifices involved in being a rider.  You were at the top of the racing world at one time and then were at a point where sometimes mounts were hard to come by.  You stuck with it and you've had a great 2002, and gosh, here you are at the end of the day on Breeders' Cup day.  What got you through the leaner times? 
 
JOSE SANTOS:  Well, I have great foundations.  My father was a jockey and I have three other brothers that are jockeys and I'm the older, so I'm being  -- before then I'm being for the ups and downs and the leader in the family, and also I have a family I have to feed.  I have to work for them, and they keep me going, plus this is one of the best games in the world.  That's why I'm here.  If I die and I'm reborn again, if I had to choose to be the president of Chilea or the United States or to be a jockey I'm definitely going to come back to be a jockey again. 
 
Q.  Jose Junior, what did you think of your daddy's job today? 
 
JOSE JR:  I think it was very good. 
 
Q.  Did you think he was going to win going into the race or do you always think that when your dad is riding? 
 
JOSE JR:  Well, I think that sometimes. 
 
JOSE SANTOS:  Thank you, guys. 
 

End of FastScripts... 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT