ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
October 4, 2020
Aaron Rai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Aberdeen Standard Investments Scottish Open champion.  How does that feel?
 AARON RAI:   Feels incredible.  It's starting to sink in a little bit now.  I think when you're in the mode of playing, you're just trying to play golf as you normally do, and feels like it is starting to sink in.  It's incredible.  It's incredible.  Played a lot in Scotland growing up.  Dreamed of playing in a European Tour in Scotland.  To be able to play in it was incredible a couple years ago, and to be able to go still further is an incredible feeling.
 Q. You had to play well, didn't you, because you were playing catch up?
 AARON RAI:   Yeah, most definitely.  Most definitely.  I try not to think of the leaderboard too much.  I didn't really see many leaderboards all the way around.  I knew we had to play well and knew we had to cope pushing forwards, but luckily had a good couple of breaks and also played very well, so very pleased.
 Q. Listened to you last week, and you were disappointed.  Would have been easy to carry that and not take some positives out of it.  Tell us about the difference, because you must have taken some positives out that have to arrive here and to perform like this.
 AARON RAI:   Yeah, most definitely.  I'm pretty sure I said in the interview, there were so many more positives than a slight negative or mistakes in my last round.  But golf is a great game.  We always have the next week or next tournament, and arrived here and tried to prepare for this week really and tried not to dwell on it too much.  Focusing on the positives and playing well, and nice to be in that situation again which definitely helped.
 Q. Classy moment with Tommy at the end, wasn't it, it's always not the greatest to see someone miss a putt, but the appreciation for the person who has beaten you.
 AARON RAI:   It's not the way I think anyone wants to see that, and Tommy is a fantastic person.  He's a better person than he is a golfer, which says a lot.  I genuinely didn't want to see that and didn't expect to see that.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT