ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 14, 2018
Aaron Rai
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How do you feel about your day's work?
AARON RAI: It was a good round.  We had a different wind direction, so it did feel like a different course out there.  Very pleased with today.
Q. Any particular aspect of your game that's clicked?
AARON RAI: It was very solid the first couple of days tee-to-green.  I had a lot of options.  Didn't make too many mistakes.  Today putted very well, which kind of kept things going.  It's been nice to see.
Q. Unusually you wear two gloves.  Elaborate on why you started to do that.
AARON RAI: Originally it was down to my hands used to very cold wearing one glove, so yeah, my dad got me these two gloves, and then maybe eight weeks down the line, forgot to putt the two gloves in the bag and I found it very difficult to grip the club.
Q. You had three wins on The Challenge Tour last year and now an opportunity to win here and secure a spot in The Open Championship.
AARON RAI: Yeah, it will be an amazing experience tomorrow.  You can take those experiences into tomorrow.  Looking forward to it.
Q. Do you feel Gullane is more of a test today?
AARON RAI: It was definitely tougher today compared to the first two days.  We had perfect conditions over the first couple of days.
Q. An interesting few holes, a little bit up-and-down.  Is it a question of just staying patient when the conditions have changed?
AARON RAI: Yes, definitely.  You very much have to plot your way around and try not to get too impatient.  Yeah, mistakes are going to be made, as well, when you do have tough conditions like this and take your chances.
Q. One shot off the lead, how exciting, going into Sunday of a Rolex Series Event into contention?
AARON RAI: Yeah, I look forward to it.  Been in contention a couple of times this year, which is nice, so you can always take those experiences into a situation like tomorrow.  But again, you have to try and play your game, as monotonous as it sounds, you just have to stick to your strategy and try to play as well as you can, and if that takes care of itself, so be it, just play your own game.
Q. An Open Championship spot up for grabs.  How special would it be to get into Carnoustie next week?
AARON RAI: That would be amazing.  Obviously The Open Championship is one that you dream about playing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT