UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 14, 2020
Sam Noyer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Colorado - 35, Stanford - 3
 Q. Give me your thoughts on being 2-0 after not a lot of people expected you guys to be where you are right now and then also kind of your assessment of the offense, it was -- kind of sputtered early, but then kind of got things going?
 SAM NOYER:   Yeah, I think that with the first question, 2-0's a great feeling.  I think that it wasn't the prettiest win but at the end of the day a W is a W and we just got to kind of build off this and keep going.  And then as far as the offensive play early on in the game, we know we got to correct some things and clean some things up, some mental errors there, but we got the ball rolling and we got things rolling and as the game went on we kind of started rolling as an offense and then our defense did a great job getting us the ball back.
 Q. The growth from week one to week two, wow, incredible numbers today.  Almost fantasy football numbers like.  Two rushing touchdowns, two touchdown passes I need your help tomorrow with for my team.  It looks like you and Dimitri Stanley are really starting to find each other out there.  You seem like you guys have a good connection and second question, how important is Coach Darrin Chiaverini, the new offensive coordinator, wide receivers coach how important has he been to your maturation these last two games?
 SAM NOYER:   Dimitri is a great player and you guys saw that last game and this game and Dimitri will make plays and whether it's a five yard dump-off to take it to the house like you is a you today or it's a long ball across the middle, he's fearless and he goes out there and plays hard every single game.  We have guys all of our guys can do that.  You see spurts of it throughout the game and I think you're going to continue to see spurts of it going forward.  Coach Chiaverini has done a great job and he's a motivator, he's a very strong motivator and he does a great job of preparing us throughout the week and going into the game.  So does Coach Langsdorf he does a really good job in the quarterback room and the offense overall, both those guys together do a really great job.  You guys expect to see that keep going and keep going.
 Q. 2-0, again we talked about expectations and you guys are playing for each other.  Obviously.  What do you say to CU fans who want to dream big and get excited with a short season and such a good start for you guys?
 SAM NOYER:   Just we're going to keep going.  Obviously 2-0's a great feeling and we want to get to 3-0.  We got to go back and watch the film and correct those mistakes, but we got something going here, something great going here and we're building something special with Coach Dorrell and this team.  Everybody's buying in, guys are having fun out there, playing, it's good to see that again.  I haven't seen that in a couple years and guys are really enjoying being out there on the sideline and they want, everybody on the -- obviously we want to win, but you see it from the fourth string to all the way up to the first string.  And that's a good feeling and that's something that we're going to continue to see going forward.
 Q. For most of this game you were without your leading receiver from last week Brady Russell went out pretty early, did not return.  It really didn't seem like that disrupted anything for you guys chemistry-wise on offense is that kind of just a testament of how deep you guys are, just at the skill positions I mean we saw Avonte step up, Dimitri had a big game, but do you feel like you really just have count less guys that you can depend on and get the ball to on offense?
 SAM NOYER:   Absolutely.  I think coach talks about it all the time, he puts up the phrase, next man up.  And that's exactly what happened.  Someone goes down, we had two guys go down and next guy up.  And that's exactly we saw people step in and get the job done.  They don't hesitate, they come in there and they're comfortable and they're prepared just as well as we are and that just goes to show that we do have depth and we do have guys who want to get in there and play and they're taking advantage of those opportunities and that's something that's really good to see for sure.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT