NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 24, 2015
Andrew Desjardins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Much like the last overtime game, you guys have a travel day, you're going to have to turn things around quickly.   What are some of the challenges of flipping that page really fast to get ready for the next one?  
    ANDREW DESJARDINS:   You know, I think the same thing.   You know, your routine takes over.   Just stick to the same things that you've been doing, I guess.   Just mentally prepare for the following game.   
   
 Q.   I know the team was trying to chip and chase to get to the neutral zone.   How were you able to accomplish that last night?  
    ANDREW DESJARDINS:   I think we're trying to stick to keeping the puck along the walls.   It makes it a little tougher for the D men to scoop it up, make easy plays out.   
    So, you know, I think we were trying to concentrate on that.   
   
 Q.   You had 52 hits yesterday.   Was there an emphasis on that?   
    ANDREW DESJARDINS:   Might have been just how the game was going a bit.   Again, I think it goes back to the last one there, keeping the pucks on the wall.   Doing that, you're going to get a little bit more bumps.   
    It's good to see, though.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel fortunate to be tied?   Both games in overtime could have gone either way.   Do you feel fortunate or really good about where you are?  
    ANDREW DESJARDINS:   I think we feel good.   I mean, last night came down to that 40 seconds that wasn't great.   Besides that I think we played good hockey.   We played good hockey in the first game for the most part.   Sometimes it just goes that way.   
    I think a win's a win at this point.   
   
 Q.   Is that just an indication of how close these two teams are?  
    ANDREW DESJARDINS:   Yeah, I think so.   One bounce here and there, you know, you never know.   
   
 Q.   Is that fun or is that frustrating, knowing every single thing you do out there could cost you a series?  
    ANDREW DESJARDINS:   I think it's playoff hockey.   It seems like right now it's a tight game.   I think that's the way it's going to be.   
   
 Q.   When you were on the outside looking in at this team, did you ever wonder how the Hawks keep winning games like this?   Now that you're inside, do you get an idea of what it is that makes a difference?   
    ANDREW DESJARDINS:   Yeah, I think that's the confidence, just sticking with the game plan, digging deep, just doing the right things.   
    I think sometimes to overcome something like last night, it's big.   It seems like this team's able to do that.   
   
 Q.   Seems like things are a little chippier out there.   Does that play more into your game?  
    ANDREW DESJARDINS:   Yeah, I think so.   It's getting deeper and deeper, so guys are getting frustrated with each other I think a little bit.   I think that's the way series go.   
   
 Q.   How important is it to not let that kind of balloon into a penalty?  
    ANDREW DESJARDINS:   I think you see that a little bit.   We're trying to stress on keeping it in between the whistles, frustrating them during play, not getting into it too much after the whistle.   
    THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
    ANDREW DESJARDINS:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT