NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 18, 2016
Kevin Love
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. So, Game 7, talk about it?
KEVIN LOVE: That's a great question.  No, Game 7, it all comes down to this.  I think it's something that you dream about growing up as a youngster, loving the game of basketball.  So it all comes down to one game, 48 minutes, and you've got to bring it.  Just lay it all on the line.
Q. You guys are on the road and in enemy territory, but what are some of the reasons why you are so confident?
KEVIN LOVE: I think we're a team that has thrived in situations like this.  I feel like we've definitely gotten better and are battle tested.  So we know it's going to be a hostile environment tomorrow night.  We know they're very good, they play very well at home and get their crowd into it.
So we're going to obviously have to be ready to play and come out and with withstand some of their runs because they play well here.
Q. How much has the fact that LeBron is playing the way he has been playing helped with that confidence?
KEVIN LOVE: Oh, it's huge.  I mean, he's our leader.  He picks up everybody, and we expect big things out of him because that's just who he is.
Q. When kids talk about or dream about Game 7s, it's usually they're the ones making the buzzer-beating shot.  How do you fit that into where you are now and doing what a team needs, finding satisfaction where you can even in just stretches?
KEVIN LOVE: You have to.  This is the type of game you have to do whatever it takes.  We have Dahntay Jones, Mo Williams, those guys came in last game and had big impacts, and they only played a couple minutes.  So got a couple foul calls, made a couple shots, great box outs.  Dahntay got an and-one at the free-throw line, made his free throws.
So it's just kind of whatever it takes.  And even if it's in short spurts or you play 30, 40-plus minutes, you've got to go out there and do whatever it takes to get it done, and it comes down to just one game.
Q. Tomorrow being Father's Day, I know obviously you're not a father yet, but is there anything that your dad taught you as a kid that you always remember going into games or that you'll remember going into maybe tomorrow?  Anything he taught you?
KEVIN LOVE: Yeah, he put the ball in my hands when I was a little kid.  He played in some big games, and he's the reason I love the game today.  So a lot of lessons learned from him.
But we have to try to do it for us and our families and our families here with these 12, 15 guys and our organization.  So got to get it done.
Q. You had such a huge start, quick start to Game 6.  How important is it, a quick start in Game 7?
KEVIN LOVE: It will be big.  They're going to try to get their crowd into it, and it's going to be a loud, hostile environment.  So if we can withstand some of their runs and go on a couple of runs of our own, especially get it off to a good start in the first and third quarter, that's going to be good for us.
Q. You've won here at the Oracle Arena.  What are some of the lessons you've learned from blocking distractions or interactions from the crowd?
KEVIN LOVE: Yeah, I think just playing away from home it's the "you against the world" type mentality, and we all have to make sure that we're locked in and ready for anything that comes our way.
So using the word "hostile," we know it's going to be that type of environment, and it also makes it fun.  It's Game 7, away from home.  It's going to be crazy.
Q. You going to be able to sleep tonight?
KEVIN LOVE: Yeah.  I'll be able to sleep.
Q. How long has this series been for you, considering coming into it healthy, excited about your first Finals?  Missing time, getting hurt, and everything that's gone into that, speculation about your role.  Does it seem like it's just been two weeks or whatever?
KEVIN LOVE: You know what, we've won.  We've forced it to a Game 7.  It has been weird, yeah, coming out of the first game.  Got hurt midway through the second game, concussion, couldn't play.  Then came off the bench.  Two unbelievable performances in Game 5 -- or was it Game 4?  Game 5 back here.  Then last game I played not even three minutes, picked up three fouls.
So it's been definitely odd.  But the fact that we've been able to be great with our group and our unit, no matter whose been playing and force it to a Game 7 and being able to withstand their small ball lineup, you know, like I said, it doesn't matter as long as we win.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT