NBA FINALS: CAVALIERS v WARRIORS
June 15, 2016
Kevin Love
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. What's it going to take for this team to do it again in a second straight game to stave off elimination?
KEVIN LOVE: Another big resurgence.  We saw last game with LeBron and Kyrie having such a spectacular night, a historic night. We're going to continue to need that firepower and play both ends of the floor.  We know that Bogut is out now, but Draymond comes back and gives them a different dynamic.  So we're going to have to play a great game.
Q. Bogut's rim protection, how much of a difference can that make?  And does that encourage you to attack the rim even more than you guys do?
KEVIN LOVE: Yeah, I think you saw it last game.  So many guys, [James and Irving] in particular, attacking the rim, getting there and finishing at a high clip.  I think Bogut being their primary guy in there, you'll probably see us attacking the rim, and hopefully that will allow us to spray out to the perimeter as well and get some of those shots.
Q. How does Draymond being back there affect the mentality as far as taking the ball to the hoop?
KEVIN LOVE: Another guy that challenges shots, a great defensive player.  But as far as that mentality, we have to continue to play aggressive.
Q. You mentioned the historic night for Kyrie and LeBron in Game 5.  Is that almost inspiring and is it almost understandable the lack of scoring that you had because of what they were doing?  Is it inspiring for Game 6 for you?
KEVIN LOVE: Yeah, it just felt like it was one of those nights where you just kind of roll out the ball for them and get out of the way.  They were spectacular all night, both scoring 41.  Kyrie shooting above 70 percent, LeBron really filled up the stat sheet in every way.  So it was great to be a part of, and you had to find different ways to affect the game that might not show up on the stat sheet.
Q. Was that your mindset, maybe being more of a decoy and space the floor when they're going like that?
KEVIN LOVE: Yeah, the Warriors are one of the only teams if not the only team that kind of plays like that.  And when Bogut went down, I think our primary option was for those guys to play downhill and attack the paint and the rim.  So for me, yeah, it was just kind of -- I know it's funny to say, but run in the corner, let those guys do their thing, and on the defensive end try to apply myself as much as I could.
Q. What do you expect for Game 6?
KEVIN LOVE: You know, every game is different.  I think every game in the entire Playoffs has been different.  But they're a team that, especially now with Bogut out, will probably play a lot of small ball.  You'll see Draymond at the five, we're thinking, and Ezeli will come in and they'll have a lot of different players sub in and out of their lineup.  But we know that the crowd is going to be on our side and we're going to have to play really, really good basketball and play better than we did last game.
Q. Tomorrow will be one year to the day that they won in Game 6 in this building.  I'm sure you don't need any extra motivation obviously to stay alive.  But how much do you think about not wanting to see the trophy hoisted in your building, to force that Game 7?
KEVIN LOVE: Yeah, I think it's a big deal.  I know that our fans and our crowd are going to be into it and going to get themselves into the game.  We don't have to worry about that.  If you can't get yourself up for this, you might as well go home.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT