VRBO CITRUS BOWL: AUBURN VS NORTHWESTERN
December 30, 2020
Bo Nix
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. End of the season, you'll have a new start, do you think the offense will be relaxed and what have you seen from this Northwestern defense?
BO NIX:   Absolutely.  I think we've had a great week of preparation.  I think going into that Bowl game, knowing it's our last one, we'll play very relaxed and play confident and at the same time Northwestern has a great defense.  They are a really good football team.  They are going to be very physical.  They are going to know what they are doing.  They are going to be in the right spots and so we are going to have to play really sound football to beat them.
Q. What have the last few weeks been like for you as part of this program with all the change and also knowing that you guys have this Bowl game to prepare for to end your sophomore year?
BO NIX:   Yeah, it's been kind of a whirlwind the last few weeks after Mississippi State.  We went into two weeks to where we had a lot of things going on, a lot of changes and I think I feel like as a football team, we have done a really good job of hanging in there and making sure we made it back to practice and I think that our guys have done a good job of sticking together.
As the quarterback, one of the main things I wanted to do was to make sure guys stayed positive and stayed confident and that whatever happens was going to be the best for us.
Q. What have your conversations been like so far with Coach Harsin?  I know he hasn't been around long but what are the things you've been able to talk about so far?
BO NIX:   He's just made sure that -- he's let the team know that we are going to be in good shape and he's going to do his best to get coaches in here that are great for us and we're going to keep everybody together and we're going to make sure that we get this thing rolling in 2021.  Obviously he hasn't been in too much as far as on the field stuff and things like that, our coaches are still doing a great job of preparing us, but he is definitely around and he is able to communicate and talk with us when we need him.
Q. What's this week been like for you guys in terms of practicing?
BO NIX:   It's been -- obviously it's been different but I think we've taken it from a different approach.  I think we have really been relaxed and had some fun with it.  Guys are excited and I think with a few days off, we've come back energized and ready to go and excited for the game.
Q. What do you think is going to be the key to have a good offensive performance down in Orlando?
BO NIX:   I think just like any old game, I think we'll have to come out and run the ball effectively and hit some passes when they are there and just make explosive plays.  I know our defense is going to do a good job of getting us the ball back and we have to do our part, making sure we're moving the ball, having good drivers and protecting the ball.
Q. Has anything changed with Chad Morris taking more control of the offense?  Have you noticed anything different?
BO NIX:   No, I do not.  There hasn't been too much of a difference.  I think most of the stuff we did during the season we have come back to and we're doing the same stuff for this game.  Obviously a few things might have changed but other than that, on the field stuff is not anything too different.  We're doing the same scheme and running the same plays.
Q. It's different prep but a lot of times you see younger guys step up, Capers, Hudson, Johnson, have you seen those guys kind of do some good things in practice this week?
BO NIX:   Yeah, absolutely.  They are getting a lot of reps and obviously trying to save some of those older guys and make sure they stay fresh for the game.  So those guys are getting some great quality reps and really doing a good job for us and continuing to learn.  Especially with just young guys learning the game of football and learning how DBs play and learning different schemes and route combinations and how they can be effective and at the same time just even being more sharp and continuing to grow as receivers.
Q. With one week of practice, has rest been a problem?
BO NIX:   We've done a great job of throwing and catching and route running and communication.  We got so [many] weeks of practice during the season that it's repetition now and muscle memory, so we've come back and been very crisp.  I've been very pleased with our effort and we have done a really good job of making sure we stayed sharp.  We got a few weeks off.  I think that was very helpful for us to be energized coming back and very loose and to play very well.
Q. I know you're focusing on a Bowl game this week, but when you get the next head coach in Brian Harsin, do you allow yourself to look ahead to what it could be like and what it could mean for you?
BO NIX:   I think the Bowl game is forefront of our minds and it's important to not let this one slip by you and not be too busy worried about the future and have this one slip past you.  We're focused right now on this game and what we have to do to win and after that we can worry about next year.  We have had a great week.  We have locked in and focused.  It has not been too much for us, but we haven't been like been going for three straight weeks so it has not really been a job.  We got a little break there and we came back and started really practicing for Friday and we are really looking forward to finishing this season off.
Q. How much can this be a springboard for the future?  I know you said you don't want to look ahead to the future but how much can a win get you off to the right start going ahead?
BO NIX:   It's huge.  Bowl games can be great for the off-season.  Off-season prep, spring ball can really jump start you into the next year, to have guys come out and play good will be huge for their confidence and their impact for next year.
Q. For you as a leader coming back to campus, how much did you take it upon yourself to make sure the team and the offense know the importance of the game?  How much have you been talking to younger guys about that?
BO NIX:   I've been playing my part but I think the coaches have done a really good job of making sure we all stay focused and know how big of a deal it is and how important it is for the future.  Regardless what happens next it's important because this is the next thing that we definitely have and this is the next thing that we can look forward to.  So Friday will be important and everybody kind of knows the importance of it.
Q. Have you been to any of the Auburn bowl games before?  Normally this is a fun trip where you get to go to theme parks and all that all week.
BO NIX:   Yeah, usually the bowl trip is something to look forward to and you kind of make like a trip out of it with all your buddies on the team.
But I think this year with everything going on, I think it's actually been kind of nice to stay in a comfort zone and stay at home where you're used to and finishing out practice and making it like an away game.  I think a lot of guys and a lot of people are really excited for the Bowl game, just mark an ending to the season so we can look forward.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT