AT&T PEBBLE BEACH PRO-AM
February 12, 2021
Henrik Norlander
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. How would you describe the round out there today?
 HENRIK NORLANDER:   It was a lot tougher than yesterday.  Everything went pretty easily yesterday and I played solid today though and made some key up-and-downs, made some good putts for par and, yeah, just really pleased with the round.
 Q. Is that what it takes around here at Spyglass.  It was cold, windy tougher day this morning and then this course obviously is a little bit tougher than Pebble?
 HENRIK NORLANDER:   I think it's fifth time I'm playing this event and I've never broken par here, so had a little different mindset.  Obviously knew the conditions were going to be pretty tough and just tried to play to the fat side of every, on every hole and take advantage of the par-5s.  I only birdied one, but it's really I just tried to play for par out here and hit a lot of fairways, hit a lot of greens.
 Q. When you come out on a morning like this when the conditions are what they are you kind of know that par, 1-, 2-under will be a really good score around here?
 HENRIK NORLANDER:   Yeah, absolutely.  I'm not really that fazed about the weather, growing up in Sweden, this is a nice spring day.  You just got to have really good patience and attitude I think on a day like this, because you're going to make bogeys from nowhere if you misjudge the wind or the greens are pretty soft, can spin-off the front or you think you hit a good shot and just -- I just felt like I had a really good attitude and patience today.
 Q. Your game seems to be really trending in a really nice direction, some really good finishes together.  What do you feel like -- what do you think it's going to take for you to get over that next hump and get into that winner's circle here on the PGA TOUR?
 HENRIK NORLANDER:   I think I somewhat always struggled to believe, really, about, believe in myself and I think like I'm getting a lot better at that and having more fun now.  I'm trying to enjoy playing the TOUR a little bit more than I did in the past, the worst thing that can happen is that we get the weekend off, so there's always next week.  And I think I'm really, by enjoying it a little bit more, I don't put so much pressure on myself and, I mean, I want to play great every time I play, but reality is you're not, so just try to have a bad round be a little bit better than what I did in the past.
 Q. Does that come with experience?  A little more maturation, not just your game but your head a little bit?
 HENRIK NORLANDER:   Yeah, I think so for sure and I mean I have a baby now and I think that's helped my game a lot, because it's put so much in perspective, it's the best thing that he's ever happened, so I just enjoy life more in general, so when you're happy off the golf course it's easier to play good golf on the golf course.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT