ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 27, 2013
Henrik Norlander
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Henrik, you had the course record in your sight for a little while there.   
HENRIK NORLANDER:   Yeah, I had a few good chances coming in, but I'm not complaining.   I made a bunch of birdie putts on the front and putted pretty solid.   Got up‑and‑down, so I'm pretty pleased with that.  
   
 Q.   Guys really getting after it today.   Talk us through the course conditions out there right now.   
HENRIK NORLANDER:   Yeah, it's still pretty soft.   No mud balls and no wind, so it was fairly easy today.   Yeah, got off to a good start and kept going.  
   
 Q.   You really haven't broken out this year so far.   172 in the FedExCup rankings.   This round coming, have you been feeling good?   
HENRIK NORLANDER:   Yeah, I've been playing pretty well all year, just haven't really put four rounds together.   It's been close, but, yeah, I've been waiting for this.  
   
 Q.   Guess you were inspired by playing with a 14‑year‑old, huh?   
HENRIK NORLANDER:   Yeah, I guess so.   I played well and got off to a good start, like I said.   Didn't really make any mistakes.   I made a bunch of putts.   I had a 40‑footer on 3 and 40‑footer on 5.   Well, I mean, it was pretty solid.   Made a little bit more putts than I usually make and that helps.  
   
 Q.   How easy was it today?   
HENRIK NORLANDER:   It was pretty easy.   When you're playing well, that's how it feels.   But there was no wind, no wind at all.   So, with no wind, yeah.   Yeah, it was pretty easy.  
   
 Q.   2‑back right now.   What do you anticipate you being at the end of the day?   
HENRIK NORLANDER:   4, 5, 6, I don't know.   I mean, it's out there.   I don't think I'm going to be that close to the leader when the day's over.   You can shoot low today.  
   
 Q.   Still gets you in the thick of the tournament.   A spot you haven't been in all year.   
HENRIK NORLANDER:   Yeah, absolutely.   I'm just happy to make some putts and finally shoot a low round.   I shot 64 in Hawaii, and it's been a bunch of 1‑, 2‑unders, and I made the fourth cut in a row, so it's just nice to shoot low on the weekend on Saturday.  
   
 Q.   Anything that seemed to click in your game?   
HENRIK NORLANDER:   The putting.  
   
 Q.   That's been the big difference?   
HENRIK NORLANDER:   Yeah, yesterday and today.   First day, actually, I played great and made like combined birdies and putts.   I had that covered up for two holes today, so that was good.  
   
 Q.   You said the first two days you made 30 putts?  
HENRIK NORLANDER:   No, the first day.   The first day I made about 30‑foot of putts and hit it really close and tapped in for par all day long.   But I'm pretty pleased to be 10‑under.   I was 2‑over through 7 on the first day, so I'm heading in the right direction.  
   
 Q.   Greens seem really receptive by the end of the day.   Did that surprise you?   
HENRIK NORLANDER:   No, I mean, it's humid.   I don't see how it's going to dry up too much.   I was the fifth group out maybe and the winds were perfect.   I mean, if you get it on the right side of the flag, you can be aggressive.   They're not overly fast.   Yeah, it's just very good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT