BUICK OPEN
July 30, 2009
Fulton Allem
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR: With today's round of 5-under, Mr. Fulton Allem.

 Q. Pretty strong finish with birdies on, looked like three off the last four holes. Tell us about that a little bit. 
 FULTON ALLEM: I played -- [ inaudible ] though the back nine kind of got going. I holed a bunker shot on 11, which got me going. Then I missed a very short putt on number 13. It was about a foot long. Birdied the Par 5, hit it to about a foot, buried that. Then had a chance at 16. Missed that. 
 Hit a good 4-iron iron at 17 to 3 feet. Made that. Nearly holed my second shot at 18, hit it to about four inches. It was just a good day. Enjoyable. It's nice to be under par and just nice to get off to a good start.

 Q. Course conditions pretty good for scoring with firmness of fairways, et cetera? 
 FULTON ALLEM: They were pretty generous to us. They had -- a few the pins weren't totally tucked. It was accessible. Still some really great holes out there. But still had to play pretty solid to get it under par.

 Q. A lot of names recognizable, including yours, right near the top. Is that surprising to you that the scores were this low?
 FULTON ALLEM: Didn't think they would be that low, as many of them. I knew somebody might shoot 6-under par but there's quite of a few of them. No surprise to see Greg up there. He is just such a world-class player. I think he is the man we've got to watch this week. If he has his confidence with his putter, it's going tough to beat him.

 Q. Did you see this 5-under coming from yourself?
 FULTON ALLEM: I kind of really have to thank the doctors over here. I've got a terrible back, and the Doc gave me a shot -- ten minutes before I went off he gave me an antiinflammatory shot. So thanks, Doc, all thanks to you. I appreciate it. It took me awhile to settle down but I felt good.

 Q. One shot off the lead after the first round's got to be satisfying for you. 
 FULTON ALLEM: It is. We still got a long way to go, you know. Three more rounds, still a lot can happen. But it's just nice to get off to a good start and sort of like get the adrenaline flowing a little bit.

 Q. You might not have seen it as much as some guys who played more toward the middle of the afternoon and early part of the afternoon. What did you think about the crowds?
 FULTON ALLEM: The crowds are phenomenal today. I mean, it was lovely to see such a big crowd out there, you know. It's just a great event for us. We're very fortunate to have this event, and it's so nice for the people to come out and watch and see some of our stars. 
 I think we've got more stars out here than they do on the other Tour. So it's great for them to see their old buddies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT