MAUI JIM MAUI INVITATIONAL
November 27, 2019
Mike Young
Tyrece Radford
Landers Nolley II
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








BYU - 90, Virginia Tech - 77
THE MODERATOR: We'll start with an opening statement from Coach.
MIKE YOUNG: Well, needless to say, Brigham Young has a very good basketball team with a heck of a coach. I think a lot of Mark. And what they do offensively is difficult and I was worried about some coverages, and I thought we did a fair job. Nine first half threes is embarrassing, but I thought we did a fair job in certain sequences of the half.
In the second half, they played like old people and we played like little fellas and they got the best of us. Y'all go ahead.
Q. Could you both talk about what you take out of here? You beat Michigan State and then two tough losses. What do you take out of this trip?
LANDERS NOLLEY II: This trip, you take the good with the bad. You learn from both. You add what you need to add going forward and you move on.
TYRECE RADFORD: I'm going to go off what he said. We did beat a high-ranked team, but after that we had to move on to the next game and bring the same intensity and that's about it.
MIKE YOUNG: Is that it? Is that it? Can we get them out of here.
THE MODERATOR: Yup. You can go join your team. Any questions for Coach?
Q. You guys shoot 31-58 from the field, 50 percent from three-point. You only turn the ball over eight times and you lose by 13.
MIKE YOUNG: Got to guard a little bit better. That's the short answer. Got to guard a little bit better. They make it hard. They got a number of guys that can shoot it and five guys that can pass, catch, and shoot. And Mark does a good job. I really like some of their actions. I thought, we thought going in we were going to score plenty enough to win. Can we get enough stops to win? And the answer to that was no. Anything else?
Q. You seemed to have TJ kind of bottled up. He got in foul trouble in the first half and then they kind of picked up pace a little bit in the second half and it appeared that folks were scrambling. What was happening defensively there when they went on a run?
MIKE YOUNG: I thought we were a lot more cohesive and connected in the first half. And Coach Odom over there can tell you, you do this thing long enough and if you don't hang in there and continue to fight, there's one shot that can break the back and then they start going in from all corners, and that's what happened. One shot goes down or a couple of shots goes down and then that thing opens up. And when you can put five guys on the floor, four at all times, like Mark can, the ball gets rolling downhill on you and it's not very pleasant. And that happened tonight.
I think we went through our first six opponents our, first six opponents we held under 60 points or thereabouts. Five of six under 40 percent from three. And then we ran into the Flyers last night and this bunch. Suffice to say we've got a lot to talk about when we get back to Blacksburg.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT