NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 30, 2006
Evgeni Malkin
Jordan Staal
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  Q.  Evgeni, what do you think of the comparisons to Mario Lemieux so far in your career?  How much contact have you had with Mario since you joined the Penguins?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  I met Mario first day when he came to Pittsburgh.  He invite me in his house.  I met in Mario Lemieux's house also Sidney Crosby.  It was great.  Also it's great everybody compare me with Mario Lemieux.   
 Of course, when everybody compare me to Mario Lemieux, it's an honor.  He's the best player.  I have to prove a lot more what I can do on the ice.   
  
  Q.  Evgeni, what is it like playing with Sidney Crosby?  Do you find Sidney Crosby thinks the game the same way you do when you play together?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  It's great play with Sidney Crosby because he's one of the best player.  He has a great view on the ice.  He always going to find it with his great pass.  He always going to find you.   
 It's still a little bit difficult because I'm not used to playing on the wing.  But I think it's going to take a little bit of time.  I think I will play my role better and better because it's easy to play with a player like Sidney Crosby.   
  
  Q.  There's a lot of fans that are upset because of the great players in the Eastern Conference and the fans in the Western Conference cannot see these great player.  Would you like to have a schedule where you play more games against western teams?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  Right now it's hard to say anything because I'm playing the first year in NHL.  All the rules, the NHL rules, are just like working out for me.  I mean, it's kind of hard to answer this question.   
  
  Q.  Evgeni, what is the most difficult aspect of moving over to the wing?  Do you see this as a long-term solution that will allow you to play with Sidney Crosby or do you think you'll move back to center as soon as they can make that work?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  I think it's just time.  Right now we are winning the games and it's great for everybody.  If the coach thinks I'm doing well on the left wing, that's how I'm going to play now.   
 Of course, it's a little bit hard for me to play defense when I'm on the left wing because I'm not used to it.  We'll see in the future.   
  
  Q.  What is your impression of Jordan Staal in his first season?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  Jordan Staal is the same as me.  We are young players.  He's in the first year in the NHL.  The way he's playing, he proves he has to be playing in the NHL.  The last games, he was unbelievable.  I mean, he's a great player.   
  
  Q.  What were the biggest adjustments you had to make to living life in America and to playing in the NHL?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  The most important that my dream was to play in NHL.  It was difficult to have all those changes in the lifestyle, on the ice.  But to have that kind of teammates that I have, it became much easier.   
 I have huge support from all my teammates, from all the guys on the ice.   
  
  Q.  Growing up, which players did you idolize?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  Always I was following for Pavel Datsyuk.  I following his game, the way he's playing.  I'm not trying to copy him, but I'm trying to be same leader as Pavel Datsyuk.   
  
  Q.  When did you know you could play in the NHL?  Was the during the Olympics or was it even beforehand?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  After the Olympic Games, when I played with such great players around me, I played against them, I could see what kind of level they had.  I felt like I was ready, I can play in the NHL.   
  
  Q.  Has specifically the on-ice transition been a little easier than you expected to the North American game?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  I didn't know what kind of game they played here when I tried to come to North America.  Of course, it's difficult.  I have to make some adjustments.  It's not that easy for me, but I'm trying very hard.  I think I'm in the right direction.   
  
  Q.  What adjustments have you made through the first five games?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  I didn't do really lots of adjustments.  After the first game, I know I have to concentrate for every game.  I have to be ready for every game.   
  
  Q.  When you got hurt in the pre-season, how difficult was that for you to deal with?  How were you able to stay mentally focused until you were able to play your first NHL game?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  Of course, it's very difficult.  I think it's difficult for every player to get injured especially in the first game, pre-season game.  But I have such great teammates, such a great team, they just support me.  We have such a great medical staff who helped me a lot with the rehabilitation of my injury.   
  
  Q.  The Kings also have a real good rookie player in Anze Kopitar.  Have you played against him in junior hockey or elsewhere?  Are you looking forward to the trip to California to play some games?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  Yeah, he's a great player.  I've seen him play in the World Cup, Junior World Cup, when he played against Slovenia.  He was the center.  He's also a great player.  He sees the ice very well.  He makes great passes.  He can make a great pass.   
 Yeah, I look forward someday to play against him.   
  
  Q.  Is there anyone in particular who you were relying on to help you get adjusted to life in North America, a teammate or somebody that your family knows over here?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  Of course, that's my great friend and teammate, Sergei Gonchar, who was helping me from basically day one on and off the ice.  Without his help, it would be much more difficult for me.  I'm very thankful for everything he's doing.   
  
  Q.  When you play in San Jose, it might not happen, but you might be going against one of your former teammates, Yevgeni Nabokov.  Is that something you look forward to?   
 EVGENI MALKIN:  Of course, they have a great team.  He's one of the great goaltenders.  It would be very interesting to play against Nabokov.  The next game we play against Los Angeles, I'm thinking and concentrating for that game first.   
  
 EVGENI MALKIN:  Thank you.   
  
  
  
  Q.  Any advice from your brother as the clock was ticking down in terms of staying with the Penguins and not going back to the juniors?  Also, there's a lot of people in the Western Conference that don't get to see Crosby and Malkin and yourself.  As a player, would you like to see more games against Western Conference teams?   
 JORDAN STAAL:  First of all, I guess Eric didn't tell me a whole lot.  It was more or less just keep doing what you're doing.  He didn't give me a whole lot of advice.   
 As far as playing in the Western Conference, it would obviously be more exciting.  But rivalry games are really important, too.  Close and tough games, too, trying to create more rivalries in the league.   
 I'm still a rookie in the league.  I don't know a whole lot about it.  See what happens.   
  
  Q.  What is it like playing on a team that has so many stars with Crosby and Malkin and Recchi?  Does it make it easier for you to play your game knowing those guys are focused on a little bit more?   
 JORDAN STAAL:  Yeah.  I mean, it's obviously a lot better when you're playing with a lot of great players.  I think this team's really starting to join together, really creating lot of chemistry.   
 I think we're starting to pull together in the last couple of games.  We can really be a good team in the future.   
  
  Q.  Is there any sense of relief on your part that the Penguins decided not to send you back with the juniors?   
 JORDAN STAAL:  I was just obviously more or less excited to stay.  It's a great bunch of guys in the dressing room.  I've really been enjoying myself the last couple weeks.   
 I'm just really glad to be part of this team finally.  Just really focused on being on this team and obviously getting some wins.   
  
  Q.  Are you surprised at how well you've played or were you expecting to play this well when the season started?   
 JORDAN STAAL:  I obviously wasn't expecting to play this well.  You know, things just kind of have been going my way the last couple games.  I think just more or less I've been really working hard the last couple weeks to get where I am.  I think I had a few bounces here and there.  I think overall I've worked really hard to get here.  I'm glad to be part of this team.   
  
  Q.  You are really the sensation of the league right now, all the young guys up in Pittsburgh.  What has it been like to be a part of the renaissance over the first months of the season?   
 JORDAN STAAL:  It's really been exciting.  As we all know, we have a lot of teenagers on the team, a lot of young players.  We obviously have a future in this club, a lot of young talent.   
 I think whether it's hopefully in the next couple years we can really be a team to be reckoned with.   
  
  Q.  When you approached this season, how realistic did you think it was you could play this season in the National Hockey League?  Did you think it was a longshot, even money?   
 JORDAN STAAL:  I guess I kind of came into camp obviously hoping to make the team, not thinking.  As the training camp went on, I think I started gaining more confidence.  I started to think I can play here, I can contribute to the team.  I think the last couple games, again, my confidence kept raising.  I started playing better, really started to contribute to the team for the last couple wins.   
  
  Q.  The penalty killers, the shorthanded goals, when I think of those things, I think of veteran guys, guys that have been around the block.  How do you explain the fact you came in and established yourself as not only a guy that can kill penalties but be dangerous at scoring goals in a shorthanded situation?   
 JORDAN STAAL:  I think a lot of it's due to more or less anticipation.  I've been a penalty killer the last couple years in Peterborough.  I really worked hard to obviously kill off those penalties and get our team on a roll.   
 I think I'm just trying to do that here now.  So far the coach has put a lot of trust in me.  I'm just trying to take the opportunity and capitalize on it.   
  
  Q.  It's only been a few games into the season, but talk about the potential this team has for this year and years to come with so many young and budding stars on the team.   
 JORDAN STAAL:  Well, I mean, all the young guys on the team are leading scoring.  Again, we obviously have a lot of young talent on this team.   
 For us to get off to a pretty good start this season will obviously give us even more confidence I think a young team needs.  As long as we can keep that ball rolling, I think we'll be fine.   
  
  Q.  Talk about gelling as a team for the future.  You are very young.  You may get to play together for many years to come.   
 JORDAN STAAL:  I think it's really important as a team to create chemistry.  Obviously, when you got a lot of young guys on a team that can really just enjoy hanging out with each other, obviously creating a better team atmosphere.  I think this team can obviously grow together in the next couple years and for years to come and really obviously create a family here and play well on the ice.   
  
  Q.  Ray Shero said that your work ethic, maturity and consistent effort have helped you make the transition to the National Hockey League.  Can you respond to that.  How does that make you feel, what your GM said about you?   
 JORDAN STAAL:  Obviously it's a good feeling.  He's given me a lot of confidence in the last couple weeks.  For him to say that, it's quite an honor.   
 Again, I came into camp just hoping to improve every day.  That really comes through work ethic.  As long as you keep improving, obviously the team is going to keep you around.  That's what I've tried to do.   
  
  Q.  It's been said that coaches have to give their players a situation or chance to succeed.  How has Michel Therrien been able to do that for you?   
 JORDAN STAAL:  All throughout training camp, they threw me into different situations:  penalty killing, power-play, first line, fourth line.  They had me everywhere.  Left wing, center.  They just tried to feel me out.   
 I think as the games went on, I started to just try to capitalize on the opportunities he gave me.  When I was on the penalty kill, I thought I did pretty well.  Obviously, he kept putting me out there.  I just kept gaining that momentum.  Obviously, I loved the ice time.   
  
  Q.  Do you play anything like Eric?   
 JORDAN STAAL:  I think we have similarities.  I've been asked this question a lot.  I haven't really had patented answer for it.   
 I think we both see the ice well, kind of got the same skating stride.  Hopefully I can get the numbers he has and win a Cup myself.   
  
  Q.  Is it good for you in that you can feel your way into the lineup while Malkin and Crosby get all the hype around the league?   
 JORDAN STAAL:  I think it's kind of nice to be under the radar coming into the season.  I haven't had a lot of pressure to contribute.  I'm just trying to obviously play my best and just try to contribute for the team.  Being under the radar is kind of nice.  Hopefully I can really do well.   
  
 JORDAN STAAL:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT