NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: PENGUINS VS SENATORS
May 16, 2017
Evgeni Malkin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Geno, what are some of the things you did well in Game 2 that you'd like to carry over into Game 3 and build upon?  
EVGENI MALKIN: I think we were a little bit faster and we controlled the game, we controlled the puck.  I think we have like 30 shots.  It's a good number against Ottawa.  And just play the same, like past game, and go to the net.   
 Q.  It seemed like you were the focus of some exchanges yesterday.  
EVGENI MALKIN: Sometimes it happens, like I say, in an emotional game.  It's a tough game.  It's like two periods 0-0, we understand we need to score, and we're not happy like a couple shifts.  It's fine.  It's like sometimes, like we can talk each other, you know, a little bit, but after the game, we're fine.   
 Q.  Do you feel you need to talk to him after a game like that or do you just feel you guys are fine no matter what?  
EVGENI MALKIN: No, we're emotional guys.  Sometimes we're not happy, like I'm open and he not pass me, or he pass when (indiscernible).  I will bark more sometimes.  So he comes to me after and say, be careful, be easy, save your energy, just play game.   
He's right.  I mean, like sometimes we lose mind a couple shifts, but after we rest, like a commercial break, we talk to each other, and always start play the same way.   
 Q.  Is that going to be key, not getting frustrated, especially against a team like this who likes to take away so much ice?  
EVGENI MALKIN: Yeah, you're right.  It's tough to play like this, two games you score like two goals.  It's not easy, like you want to score more.  Like we have like five power plays in this game, but we have power plays, and we're not scoring.  Of course, we're a little bit like lose mind, and we want to like win every game, every home game, and we want to score power play every chance.   
But sometimes it's not like -- it's not like how you want, but you need still understand like and still don't lose focus.  Like save your emotion and support your teammates and be nice guy on the bench.   
 Q.  If you have to play without Justin Schultz, you already have Kris Letang out on the power play, especially Justin has that big shot.  What changes for you guys in the power play going forward?  
EVGENI MALKIN: We have a couple more deep for sure.  I think it's Streit back, he's a power play guy.  He plays enough.  I saw he was play in Philly on top.  He's good.  He controls puck.  He's good guy who can shoot and assist too.  I think he helps so much, he play tomorrow.  I think he understands how he plays.  He plays tough.   
We're fine.  We'll score some goals.  I mean, I hope tomorrow like Schultzy, I hope he play, but if not, like Streit, I think he guy who play in power play.   
 Q.  Does it make it difficult, like you don't have your puck (indiscernible) obviously, and that probably makes it more difficult for you guys, right?  
EVGENI MALKIN: No.  I mean, we have like so many talented guys on the team.  Everyone wants puck.  But sometimes it's not work.  We play against Ottawa.  They play like so good in D-zone, like sometimes we -- like we lose puck, like we not like find way to go to net.  But it's like it's a hard game, but I think now we're better because we win last game.  We feel so much better, and we have like so much better confidence.   
I think like Game 3, I think we understand like they play at home, like they play a little bit like -- I hope like they not play like last game.  They play a little bit more in offensive zone and a little like we have more chance to score.   
 Q.  You guys have done a good job containing Erik Karlsson for a couple of games.  What's the biggest challenge facing a defenseman like that who's so talented offensively?  
EVGENI MALKIN: Same way, don't give him puck.  He's got the puck like every shift.  Play a little bit close to him.  When he have puck, like jump to him, play physical against him.  We do a great job the last two games and like just get to him some way.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT