NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BRUINS v PENGUINS
June 4, 2013
Evgeni Malkin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  EVGENI MALKIN:   Just stay positive and focused.  
   
 Q.   What's the most important thing to change to do better if there was one thing you could fix?   
EVGENI MALKIN:   D‑zone coverage, because after you sometimes play a little bit deep, but it's a little bit harder, and just three guys come back and (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   How hard is this going to be, you guys go to Boston down 0‑2 in a hole?  
EVGENI MALKIN:   But it's a good test for us.   Of course it's hard, but if we beat Boston we have a good chance at the Stanley Cup.   It's not easy to win and never easy to win in Boston, but we know we can and just good practice today, good meeting, and stay positive.   
   
 Q.   Sid said that every time he touched the puck last night the puck just seemed to be bouncing and nothing seemed to go right.   Is that kind of how you felt, as well?   
EVGENI MALKIN:   We played one night.   It's all the guys, both teams.   Even though they scored six goals, why they score?   We not control puck because you know maybe we know (inaudible) and puck starts bounce because we notice.   We just relax and control more pockets, puck never bounce and we score goals and we control more game.  
   
 Q.   Did they really know you so well in the defensive zone to keep you guys to the outside and not allow a lot of shots through?  
EVGENI MALKIN:   It's hard, when you just play simple, sometimes, he's right, puck bounce in zone, but just play simple out neutral zone and play right.   It's just focus (inaudible).  
   
 Q.   In 2009 you guys came back twice from 2‑0.   How much does that help knowing that?  
EVGENI MALKIN:   Of course it helps.   We have great experience five years before, but it's different time, different team, but we know we can come back.   We see Chicago come back, won three, lose, and come back and win three games.   It's not over, it's Playoffs, it's a tough situation, it's tough time, but it's not over yet.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT