NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 20, 2012
Evgeni Malkin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk about what you said about your friend, Sergei Gonchar?   Can you talk a little bit more about you lived with him and he helped you with English?
EVGENI MALKIN:   Yeah, yeah, I remember six years before when they come and it's a different life.   I must speak English and they take care of me. 
Sergei is a great guy, unbelievable player and he learned how life‑‑ how hard to play, and it's my best friend here and thanks to him and family.   He always support me.

Q.   Do you still talk to him a lot?
EVGENI MALKIN:   We work out together in summer and vacation and always talk on the phone, too.

Q.   How much does this mean to you in your career in your lifetime?
EVGENI MALKIN:   A special day to me.   You know, it's my friends here.   (Indiscernible) and I hope it's not the last one, but I try work every year and I hope again.

Q.   Did you ever think being on a team with Sidney Crosby that you'd have a chance to be an MVP in this league?
EVGENI MALKIN:   Of course I want to be with Sid and Staalsy and Flower and everyone I like and with their great team.   And I hope Sid come back next year and play all season, no injury, and we have a great chance to win.

Q.   How does it feel to know how you felt during this season, to know that that made you the best player in the league?
EVGENI MALKIN:   I think about with just my best, you know, every game and every practice and great line this year with (indiscernible) and (indiscernible).   I play together, and Coach believe me power play and play 25 minutes, it's a lot for me.   Great team, too.

Q.   Did you expect to win this at some point in your career (indiscernible)?
EVGENI MALKIN:   Best day of my life.   Very special day, and very excited and nervous.

Q.   What's it mean to have the Ted Lindsay, voted by your fellow players?   What does that mean to you?
EVGENI MALKIN:   It's special because it's what players‑‑ I play against players every game, and it's very special to me as they would myself, you know, and, of course, would thank my friends from (indiscernible) and Russia, too.

Q.   You play in front ofthousands of people in games, millions of people on television, but you seemed really nervous on stage tonight.   Were you?
EVGENI MALKIN:   Yeah.   I remember my first speech, first trophy, but I think this was a little bit better.   Maybe next year a little bit better, too.

Q.   Are you as nervous, are you more comfortable than you ever were speaking the language, being in the spotlight?
EVGENI MALKIN:   Yes, of course every year I'm a little bit more comfortable.   I learn English, watch TV, and I have more friends on Facebook and go out with friends and teammates.   I'm pretty comfortable right now and enjoy to play and‑‑

Q.   I think you said yesterday you want to be at this level for the next 10 years.   Is your confidence and your dedication as high as it's ever been?
EVGENI MALKIN:   Yeah, now it's my choice.   I love this sport.   I like my team and I want to be the best next 10 years.

Q.   How good can the Penguins be the next year and the year after?
EVGENI MALKIN:   Every year it's different.   Sometimes you have injury.   It's tough.   But if all players are healthy, we have a great chance to win.   We have great goalie, great center and great defensemen, and we have great chance every year to win the Stanley Cup.

Q.   How do you go from the little boy in Russia becoming the best hockey player?   How does that happen?
EVGENI MALKIN:   I don't know.   Thanks to my parents, of course, and just coaches from Russia.   I never think about any chill.   I just enjoy playing hockey when I'm growing up, and now I can do it.   I'm here and I can't believe I'm standing here and, around me, three trophies and the Hart Trophy.   It's unbelievable day to me and to my family.

Q.   What does it say about the Russian hockey players?   They get a bad rap.   You've proven it is not necessarily true. 
EVGENI MALKIN:   I love my country.   Every year I come back to my hometown in Moscow and I have a lot of friends from Russia and great country and growing up and I always represent Russia to national teams and I love my country.

Q.   Would you trade all the awards for gold Russia 2014?
EVGENI MALKIN:   I want to come to Russia and play in the Olympics.   And I hope NHL say yes and all players, all best players go to and from Russia, look to Crosby, it's all best players. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT