WORLD BASEBALL CLASSIC: 2ND ROUND POOL F
March 14, 2017
Manny Machado
Ervin Santana
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ervin, you did not have the start in Spring Training, but you also started training in Minor Leagues.  How do you confront this major responsibility with the Dominican group?  And, Manny, have you dealt with any sentiments with regard to this confrontation?
MANNY MACHADO: Let's play ball.  What happened in Miami, it happened already.  And we need to continue playing as a team and doing the work that we need to do to win and to continue winning.  We're dealing with a division that is excellent, that's very good.  We have to continue playing like we need to play.
ERVIN SANTANA: Well, I practically came here as a mission to win, with that mission, with not looking behind.  Wily Peralta, he was able only to do the first round, and they asked me to see if I could pitch for the first round.
Q. Ervin, two outs, this was incredible.  You were very good.  And before you came out here you were working on your mechanics.  How would you be able to explain what process did you see?
ERVIN SANTANA: I worked really hard on the mechanics and the games, and I saw the difference, and I started to do much more strikes and have lower balls.
Q. Manny, just your thoughts on playing shortstop tonight and getting that opportunity?
MANNY MACHADO: You know, to be honest, just trying to do whatever for the team.  Play short, third, second, first, outfield, DH, I mean, you put all egos aside whenever you play here.  This is all trying to play for the Dominican Republic, trying to win, trying to win games.  At the end of the day, that's all that matters.  So wherever you play, it's just trying to do everything possible to try to win and do the best for the team.
Q. Ervin, when they called you, were you ready to represent the country?  The manager, did he surprise you?  And you said that you play anywhere for your team.  Do you know the value that Manny Machado has in the Major Leagues?
MANNY MACHADO: I don't know.  We'll see.  I'm playing ball.  That's mine.  That's the only thing that I can control is to go out and to play on a team and to have everyone be by my side and to do the best I can.  And that is the one thing that I can control, the bat, the glove, and moving forward.
ERVIN SANTANA: It didn't surprise me, the call.  It wasn't surprising because my agent told me that there was going to be a second round.  Well, let's see if they ask me to go, then I'll go.  I'll let you know.  And they asked me if I was ready for the second round, and I told them, yes, I was.
Q. One question for both of you.  Manny, congratulations for your award.  I've noticed that the American press has been giving you the incredible presence that you have.  That you've been adapting to that kind of game, that contentment in the game.  That you're just emanating?
ERVIN SANTANA: Not all groups are the same.  The Dominican group is always having a good time.  It doesn't matter what kind of circumstances we're in, it doesn't matter the ups and the downs, we're always in a happy mood and we're always sharing as a family.  It doesn't mean on the field and playing, but outside of the field.
MANNY MACHADO: He told it as it is.  That is ours, that's the game.  Like he says, all teams are very different.  Obviously, when we return, it's going to be different.  There aren't too many Latinos, there are more Americans, and obviously everyone has to think about what you do.
But obviously in our blood, we're going to play the way we play, and that's never going to change.
Q. I'm wondering, where were you four years ago when the Dominican beat Puerto Rico for the championship?  Did you watch the game?  Where were you?
MANNY MACHADO: I was actually -- it was my first Big League camp trying to make the team in Baltimore.  So I was in Spring Training watching them play, watching them win the whole thing.  Watching those games is one of the reasons I wanted to play because just seeing how their emotions were for the game.  They were together as a team, unity.  It was just unbelievable watching them from the TV.  So to come be part of it, it's a lot different, and I'm glad I chose to come.
ERVIN SANTANA: I was in Arizona Spring Training with Kansas City.  I just watched the whole World Baseball Classic.  I was enjoying it from the outside, and now I'm part of it and I'm very happy and excited to be part of the team of the Dominican Republic.
Q. Odd question for either or both of you on Fernando Rodney's plantain.  What do you guys think of it, and what does it mean for the team and also for the Dominican Republic?
MANNY MACHADO: I mean, that's us.  I mean, that's us, that's Rodney.  I mean they've blown it out of proportion a little bit.  Everything you see on social media right now is all about the plátano power, and plátano this, and plátano that.  It's kind of fun.  It keeps us loose.  That's one of the things we have on this team is we just try to keep it fun, as loose as possible.  You know, because that transfers out to the field when we're out there playing.
ERVIN SANTANA: I said we're born eating plátanos, either smashed or boil it, so it's in our blood.  The good thing is everybody's enjoying the time we put out there and play.  Everybody's happy with the way these guys are playing right now, and especially Rodney with his plátano in the dugout and all that.  So it's very exciting.  So it's very happy for everybody.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT