CHICK-FIL-A CHARITY CHAMPIONSHIP
April 25, 2003
Denise Killeen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  We'll go over your score card last.  Can you just talk about your day, about the day from the beginning, all the delays and  --
DENISE KILLEEN: From the beginning to my lousy nine swings?

Q.  Yeah, exactly.
DENISE KILLEEN: I kind of expected a delay this morning.  I'm quite surprised we actually got in 18 holes, I'm kind of pleased that we did.  I have two kids, so my day is a kind of little different from every other player's day.  When there is a delay, I just got up, fed my kids, and hung out for a while and did a little shopping, and came back and played some golf.

Q. You were playing lift, clean and place out there today obviously, so you can kind of just throw it right at the flag today.  Is that the case, because the greens were so soft or what?
DENISE KILLEEN: Well, they are not that soft.  Yeah, almost had to play the play in place because almost every time I picked up my ball, it had a chunk of mud on it, so it would have been really difficult not to do that. 
And I think The Tour made a great decision in doing that.  The greens still -- I mean, there were some you could hit it right at it, but there were others that still kind released about what they had been before the rain.  The course is in amazingly good shape for the amount of rain they had.  You have to commend the crew here, they did a great job in getting the golf course playable, much less as good as it is today.

Q.  What was the key for you today, posting a good number?
DENISE KILLEEN: I haven't been playing very well in the last year.  I didn't really have a whole lot of expectations, which is probably good for me.  I've had a lot of people helping me in the last  -- trying to get my game back to where it was in Tucson and, you know, I just  -- i don't know, I went out there and I played and I made a couple birdies early and started having fun, and it's amazing when you have fun at this game how much easier it is.

Q.  What's your commute here from home?
DENISE KILLEEN: My commute would be about an hour, 50 minutes to an hour, but we moved down last night because of that.  We stay home most of the week and then move down on Thursday and the weekend.  (Inaudible) traffic is.  You've heard it's bad.  Rumor has it.

Q.  I guess it wouldn't be the Chick-fil-A without a delay, right?
DENISE KILLEEN: Well, lately it would be, yes.  I was kind of sad for this tournament because this is such a great tournament to not have great weather, but I think the players have just kind of gotten used to it and expect it, which is probably good because then they don't get upset anymore when these things happen.

Q. Did the conditions change much out there today?
DENISE KILLEEN: I don't think it really changed that much out there, to be honest.  It got a little windy, that's about it.  It's not like it went from being totally wet to totally dry.  I mean, the ground stayed the same.  I don't know.  I think they did a great job in getting this course ready and it's ready to be played.  I mean, they moved some tees up, but they had to do that more because of some of the landing decisions, that was a wise decision because you can't be hitting it out of that stuff so, therefore, it didn't play that bad.

Q.  Were the greens holding well early?
DENISE KILLEEN: My 6-iron into the first number 10, and it's probably really 7 or 8, so it's not like they were like hitting and stopping, but then there was some, if you had shorter clubs, that you could kick it right at.  I mean, it just -- they weren't too terribly much different than they were on Wednesday when I played.

Q.  Your kids are young.  Are they going to be out here this week?
DENISE KILLEEN: My kids, they go with me every week.  They're with me every week.  My husband caddies for Pat Hurst so we all travel around every week.

Q.  He used to caddie for you, right?
DENISE KILLEEN: He's tried that.  It didn't work very well.  Yes.  Much better this way.  So much.

Q. Does this feel like a home tournament for you?
DENISE KILLEEN: It does.  I mean, I really enjoy this golf course, and it's nice to be back in The South for me.  I enjoy the West Coast, but it's just nice to come back to your home surrounding.  This is as home of a tournament as I'm going to get.

Q.  Last year you talked about getting to the point where your kids will be in school and you might be thinking about stopping playing.  Where are you now with that?
DENISE KILLEEN: I am right at that point, and my son goes to kindergarten in August, and I've got this year figured out.  After that, I don't quite know where I'm going to go, what we're going to do.

Q.  If you didn't have to deal with the traffic, you'd probably commute, right?
DENISE KILLEEN: I'd love to stay at home.  Exactly.  If I didn't have to deal with that, if there was just 45, 50 minutes, that wouldn't really bother me that much, but getting up at 6:00 because you know you have to  -- you know, to get there by 7:00 because you have to get through the city, it doesn't matter when your tee time is after that.  That's kind of a problem.

Q. There has to be an advantage to finishing your round today?
DENISE KILLEEN: Oh, yes.  I was on the other end last year of that and I know how that is.  I was playing all day Friday, all day Saturday, that's not a lot of fun.  I'm happy I got done.  I was thinking it would be a big advantage.  It's hard to wait until like 5:30, 6:00 to tee off,  play for an hour and a half, and turn around and finish tomorrow.  And I don't know what they are going to do, whether they are going to just let them turn around and go like they did last year or whether they're going to  -- that's a long day.

Q.  Tomorrow will be -- it won't be repaired by 4:00, they are going to flip-flop the two segments.
DENISE KILLEEN: I don't have that time.

Q.  Do you have any thoughts that this will be your last year out because of the kids?
DENISE KILLEEN: No, I think it would be switched off.  At least play some.  It might be more limited.  Like, I might go out for two weeks, stay home for a few weeks, go out for another few weeks.  I would probably have the ability to do that.  The way our schedule is right now, I wouldn't miss a whole lot in the beginning of the year before my son got out of school.  I don't foresee this as my last year.

Q. Is your husband going to do something accordingly?
DENISE KILLEEN: That's the question.  I don't know the answer to that yet.  I don't know whether he'll stay home or not.  I don't think  --

Q.  Do you think it'll be a combination of the two?
DENISE KILLEEN: No, maybe.  That would be tough, though, if you were caddying for someone else.  We could never do it together so I don't know.

Q.  What was the problem with your game the last couple of weeks?
DENISE KILLEEN: I could find the fairways.  It's pretty tough to play out here if you can't hit it in the fairway.  I managed to come up with something in the beginning of the week that is going to help me and I hit it pretty good today, so.

Q.  Do you have a lot of family and friends here this weekend?
DENISE KILLEEN: Well, I've given out about 40 tickets, so whether or not they all show up is another issue.  I have a lot of family here also, I'll tell you that.

Q.  I'm sure it's nice to sneak in under the radar this week, right?
DENISE KILLEEN: Sure, it was.  I kind of like that.

Q.   You handle the pressure of all of Atlanta and the U.S.?
DENISE KILLEEN: It would be nice to see a US player win.  That's a lot of pressure now, isn't it?

Q.  And you can handle that kind of pressure?
DENISE KILLEEN: Oh, sure.

Q.  Go over your birdies and bogeys real quick.  Start on 10 if you want to, or 1.
DENISE KILLEEN: Let's start on 1.

Q.  Okay.
DENISE KILLEEN: I hit a five-iron to about 5 feet.

Q.  Okay.
DENISE KILLEEN: I got to figure out where I made bogeys. 

Q.  Birdie on 6, I think, is the next one.
DENISE KILLEEN: That's a par 5, hit a sand wedge to about 4 feet; 11, I hit another sand wedge to about 4 or 5 feet.

Q.  11, I think.
DENISE KILLEEN: 11 I chipped in from right at the green.  It helps when you don't have to putt.

Q.  How far away were you?
DENISE KILLEEN: Off the green?

Q.  Yes.
DENISE KILLEEN: I was probably about 10 yards off the green.  I was right  -- then I bogeyed 12, I hit a bunker left off the tee and it was short of the green and chipped it up there.

Q.  How far was your putt there?
DENISE KILLEEN: It was probably about a 20-footer. 

Q.  Okay.
DENISE KILLEEN: 13, I hit it to about  -- let's see. 

Q.  What did you hit there, a sand wedge?
DENISE KILLEEN: Yeah, sand wedge.

Q.  Okay.  Other bogey was on 15.
DENISE KILLEEN: I hit right of the greenside bunker and had about a 25-yard little pitch shot, hit it to about 8 feet and missed the putt.

Q.  What iron did you hit on that, 4?
DENISE KILLEEN: 4.  And 18, I just had a little chip from in front of the green, (inaudible) about 10 feet, made it.

Q.  You birdied three of the four par 5s.
DENISE KILLEEN: That's pretty big for me. I like this golf course.

Q.  Do you feel any urgency to get a victory?
DENISE KILLEEN: No.  I mean, I play just because I enjoy playing.  I mean, I've had several opportunities  -- not opportunities, but times when I was frustrated and ready to quit, and just decided that I  -- i about quit at the end of last year, the more I was away from it the more I really realized I enjoyed it and didn't want to quit. 
Everybody has goals and things they want to accomplish before they are done, and that is one of my goals before I'm done, but I've got a couple years here, so if it happens, it happens.  It's always something you're striving for.  As you said, Americans are having a tough time out here. If I was Korean I'd probably be in.

Q.  Thank you very much and good luck tomorrow. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT