NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 26, 2015
Zack Fischer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Not ten birdies, but still four and a really good round today.  Talk about it if you would.
ZACK FISCHER: I had a really good day.  I struck the ball really well.  Again, kind of struggled off the tee a little bit, but definitely got it more located today.
I actually probably played a little bit better today than I did yesterday.  The pins are really difficult.  With the wind and everything it was really tough to shoot a low number.
Made some good putts.  Unfortunately I had two 3-putts.  All in all, it was a really great day.  I was really happy with 69.
Q. Where were the 3-putts?
ZACK FISCHER: 3-putts, 7 and I 3-putted --
Q. 15?  Both of those?
ZACK FISCHER: Yeah, yeah.
Q. Pleased with your round, and that seemed to be reflected leaving the putt here just a little bit shy on 18, but your reaction looked like you had a good day.
ZACK FISCHER: Oh, yeah.  I was super happy.  I mean, putt looked like it would be pretty quick once it got over the little hill.  I saw Lucas leave it short.  It was just hard for me to commit that it was going to be really slow.
I had a really great line on it, but, like I said, just shooting 69 I was super happy.  Any underpar scores on this golf course are great.  If I could just shoot another 69 tomorrow I would be really, really happy.
Q. Did you find anything with your driver on the range last night?  I know you were going to hit some balls.
ZACK FISCHER: Yeah, I mean, I kind of found something -- it was actually more on the course today.  I wasn't striking all that well on the range, this afternoon when I went out on the range.
On the second hole I was just trying to hit draws.  Kept hitting it to the right so I was like, Well, I'm going to try to hit it left.  Just kind of equalized.  I think I hit a bad tee shot on 6.  Got in the bunker that was left.
But all in all, they were really solid and they weren't far off the fairway.  Not to the point I was having to chip out like I was yesterday.
I hit the driver actually a lot better today and I kept myself where, you know, you didn't have to get underneath the trees.
Q. How do you balance having fun on the course versus the pressure of the finals?
ZACK FISCHER: Oh, I don't even know how to answer that.  Just got to smile and just -- especially on this course, you just know that you're going to have some really, really difficult shots.  I mean, the 3-putts were from 50 to 70 feet away.
You just know there will be a lot of really, really tough putts.  Just got to laugh and just know that you're going to get in some bad spots and hit some bad shots because you're human.  Just accept it.
Q. Did you learn anything I guess about yourself and the way you handle pressure from last Saturday and I guess anything you're able to focus on today that helped you fare better today than last week on the weekend?
ZACK FISCHER: I kind of went back to what I was doing the year I won Q-School in 2013.  I had a deal -- I went to a like a college golf fellowship.  Not really a fellowship, but like a Bible study for one the college tournaments.
Phil Dawson, the kicker for the Browns at the time, he was speaking and he was talking about a playlist he would have.  He had this playlist every single time, so it didn't matter if it was the Super Bowl or just a regular practice routine, he had the same playlist.  So every single time he was either in the Super Bowl or he was just in a regular game it was the same exact thing and nothing felt different.
So I've tried to incorporate that this week, and it really has helped.  It's got some good Christian songs in my head, so basically I've been singing the whole time.
It's just been fun.  I have just had a lot better time this week.  I wasn't really that nervous today; don't think I'll be nervous tomorrow just because of that playlist and having that routine going.
Q. And that playlist is while you're practicing, warming up?
ZACK FISCHER: Yeah, while I am warming up.
Q. How long is it about?
ZACK FISCHER: 51 minutes.  Basically right when I go to the tee box it cuts off.
Q. Had you ever met Phil Dawson?
ZACK FISCHER: I had never met him until then, and I was glad I met him because he gave me some really, really good advice on that.  He's a really, really strong Christian.  He helped me out a lot.
Q. Talk about the birdies today:  1, 4, 9, what you did there.
ZACK FISCHER: 1 I drove it in the bunker to the right.  I know everybody is shocked by that.  Hit it in the right bunker, and then I hit lob wedge to probably 20 feet behind the hole and I made it.
Then 4 I had 225 to the pin, but it was in a really tough spot.  I was talking to my caddie, Michael, and I was like, I think we should just lay up, because if you go long you're just dead.
And so we laid up to 80 yards and I hit a lob wedge to like two feet and made birdie.
Then what was the other one?  9?  I hit a good tee shot again in the fairway.  Hit a pitching wedge to probably 15 feet left of the hole and made a pretty good downhill slider to the right.
Then 16, I hit a good 4-iron down the fairway; hit a pitching wedge about 25 feet short of the hole, and then made the 25-footer.  It was going in with the speed, too.  I'll admit it.
Q. Are you one to watch a leaderboard on a day like today?
ZACK FISCHER: I honestly kind of like watching it just to see how the guys are doing, the people I know.  Just almost rooting for them just to see how they're doing.
Not so much for me to like shoot at their number, but you almost kind of encouraging to see.  Like I played with Garrigus last week and he's such a nice guy.  Kind of pulling for him.
And Harold, I've known him for the last two or three years.
It's just fun to watch and see how those guys are doing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT