NATIONWIDE CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL CHAMPIONSHIP
September 25, 2015
Zack Fischer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Something was going right.  
ZACK FISCHER: The putter.  I was really, really, rolling the putter really well.  Just had it going right where I wanted it.  Just seemed like every time I hit a putt the ball was starting perfectly.   
If I could just get it on the green it was a good thing.  Unfortunately I was having to hit the balls off the tee, and that wasn't going so well today.   
Hopefully I can get that ironed out before my round tomorrow.   
 Q.  You using a new driver?  
ZACK FISCHER: Yeah, using a new driver, but wouldn't really have mattered.  Old one wouldn't have done any better.   
I was hitting it a lot farther with the new driver, so that was a good thing.  I just kept losing the ball to the right.  It's a very consistent miss, but hopefully I can just get it, like I said, straightened out and keep the putter going the rest of the week.   
 Q.  What happened at eight 8 there?  
ZACK FISCHER: Just pulled my tee shot.  Had 6-iron, pretty good yardage, and just came over the top of it.  Kind of been having issues with that.  I did the same thing on 17 yesterday when the pin was on the left and just had no chance to get up and down.   
I just got to get a few thing swing-wise ironed out.  Short game is in a really good spot.  Wedges are great.  Got to get the long game going.   
 Q.  How I guess discouraging or hurt were you by what happened last weekend, and how were you able to turn around and keep progressing so quickly?  
ZACK FISCHER: Well, I've got an amazing God that's always for me.  Without him there is no way I could be where I'm am.  My wife does an amazing job.  She was caddying for me last week and she does an amazing job to keep me encouraged.   
I'm going with a professional caddie I guess the last two events.  She said she's going to leave me.  I've done my job.  It's all done.   
But the guy who is working with my, Michael, he did an awesome job keeping me calm.  Honestly, I haven't really thought about it.  Talking to a few guys, just some really good guys just knowing that, I mean, it all happened for a reason.  It may happen again.   
I'm going to go into it with confidence and just hoping for the best.   
 Q.  Does a day like today show you how mental the game is?  It's just between the ears, isn't it?  
ZACK FISCHER: Absolutely.  Today I was in a really good state mentally.  It was more of a golf swing thing.  I couldn't execute my shots.   
When I did execute them I hit them really, really good.  All my birdies were really close, inside 15 feet.  Hit a lot of really good shots, but just couldn't get it off the tee.   
It was so frustrating.  I am trying everything to get it to go left and it just goes right.  I told my caddie, I could've aimed in the fairway on No. 10 and it would be in the bunker on No. 9.   
I am making really good recoveries.  I just got to keep birdieing the par-5s.  Hope for the best for the rest of the week.   
 Q.  Take us through the tenth birdie of the day.  
ZACK FISCHER: The last one on No. 9?  So I set up on tee.  The wind is blowing pretty hard off to the left; probably 15.  It was picking up the whole day.   
Come out of the tee shot; hit it really solid and it goes in the bunker.  My caddie and I, we were 162 I think, and we were kind of caught in between clubs.   
He got me really confident, and I hit like a kind of three-fingered 8-iron in there to like three feet and knocked it in there.   
It was an up and down day, and I hope there are some more balls on the range.   
 Q.  This miss to the right, is that what you were struggling with last weekend?  
ZACK FISCHER: I mean, that's just my miss.  Always seems to go right.  Never really thought left.  If anything, it's just off my irons.  Driver I've never really had issues with hooking it.   
It's not normally the worst thing in the world.  It's only five or ten yards out of the fairway.  The problem is if the wind is up it keeps pushing it right.  If the wind is off right it's easy for me.   
Like I said, hopefully I can hit some balls today.   
 Q.  I may have this wrong, but walking down 9 with you, were you talking to yourself a little bit?  
ZACK FISCHER: Oh, I like to talk to myself.  I'm my worst critic sometimes, and that's why it's great to have an awesome caddie just to keep me positive.  Positive thoughts right before I hit my shots.   
Just got me in a good mindset.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT