NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: SHARKS v CANUCKS
May 16, 2011
Max Lapierre
Sami Salo
Daniel Sedin
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  DANIEL SEDIN: I think if we play the way we can, we don't have to take penalties because we're going to be in the right position all the time. 
 It comes from being sharp, playing good as a team. 

 Q. What have you learned from the last two years about Antti?
 DANIEL SEDIN: He's a winner. He hasn't lost a playoff series yet. You have to respect that. 
 At the same time, you have to treat him like any other goalie. Get in front of net, shoot the puck. You got to get to those rebounds. That's the tough part. 

 Q. He's a guy that has a lot of credit for not letting things get to him. How about your guy? Last night after that give-away, what do you see from him?
 DANIEL SEDIN: I think he's been through a lot in this city and in these playoffs, too. Like I said yesterday, it's going to take a lot more than that. We're realizing here that guys are going to make mistakes, but it's how you bounce back, not letting it affect you. 
 I think he showed that yesterday. 

 Q. Have you seen improvement in the (indiscernible)? 
 DANIEL SEDIN: I don't know. I think it's always been pretty solid mentally. I think in the past we played some good teams, and they have been able to score a few goals. He feels that, too, I think. Overall, I think we're more confident.

 Q. As far as adapting to this team... 
 MAXIM LAPIERRE: I think it was pretty easy. A great group of veterans. You just have to build a solid base and go from there. Every game you improve. Right now we're pretty good, for both of us. 

 Q. Much has been made of their third line. How much of a challenge is that? 
 MAXIM LAPIERRE: It's a great challenge for us. It's a great chance for us to play against those players. We have to be at our best every shift. 
 It's going to be the same thing tomorrow. We can't afford to turn the puck over. We have to put the puck behind their D and work down low.

 Q. You've always been pretty good in the circle. Anybody helping you in terms of your draws? 
 MAXIM LAPIERRE: Of course, Manny is helping me a lot. He's looking at video every period, telling me if I have to change something. Of course, he helps me a lot. I learn from him. 

 Q. What does it mean for you to be out there late in the game taking a draw? 
 MAXIM LAPIERRE: It's fun. We're all in the game. We want to play at those times in the game. Felt great last night. Now it's over. Now we have to focus for the next game.

SAMI SALO: It's six series in a row now. He's a premiere goalie. We got to continue to try to make his life as miserable as possible. 

 Q. Doesn't seem like he's real flashy or things stick out. What about to you guys? 
 SAMI SALO: Yeah, no, I guess he's not one of those goalies or players that, like you said, has all those things, but he gets the job done. 
 He's a good goalie, there's no doubt. They're this far because a big part of him. As I said, he's won a Cup. He's a good goalie. 

 Q. What do you think the turning point in the game was? 
 SAMI SALO: Like I said, we were just trying to pitchfork anything. Unfortunately it didn't go in. That's playoff hockey. That was a fun shift to be a part of. I think it did give us a bit of momentum. I thought we jumped out well in the third and continued to press the puck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT