PURDUE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 15, 2016
Gerad Parker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GERAD PARKER: Thank you, sir.  Good to see everybody again this week.  Obviously week four of this weird transition of events.  Sad, but true that it was another position where we put ourselves in a great first half and battled a great football team that's really coming into their own, and then came out in the second half and didn't take care of business by turning it over again and giving them too many possessions which equated to us losing control of the football game.  So certainly tough to see that happen again in the second half and us not take care of it and respond better in every phase.   
I'm certainly proud of the effort.  I will say that.  Our guys played hard, and very proud of the result in the first half, which is something you have to continue to look at, especially with where things are at with some of our personnel.   
Really, really proud of those guys, though.  And I have to say again what a first-class act that Coach Fitzgerald is.  Had a chance to visit with him before the game and all those things, and how he handles himself and what he does for his student-athletes, and that program should be commended for what he is and what he's about, and can't say thanks enough for some of the words that he had to share.   
With that being said, this week is fully and completely about our seniors.  The staff has continued to work our tails off.  The players have as well, and this week is about our seniors playing their last game in Ross-Ade Stadium, and a chance for them to play an unbelievable football team in Wisconsin.  And those guys, I know, want to go out the right way, embrace their fans, their families and their name by putting the product on the field that'll make them proud in their last memories here in Ross-Ade.  So we'll spend a bunch of time thinking about that, talking about that, continue -- as I've said from the start, I'll continue to give every ounce of my energy and being very, very positive and pushing these guys in the right way, because it's the right thing to do, and try to put them in the position to win games.  They'll also be better men for it and then learn how to prepare and attack, being able to learn how to win and being positive in how you approach a game and the atmosphere of it.   
And then lastly, as I started with this, I did want to, again, mention that my mother's side, my grandparents, Sue Smith and Gene Smith were both affected by cancer late in their lives before they were gone, and it's the two that I wanted to mention in this No Shave November approach to this, and miss them dearly, and I know they were a huge impact on our family.  So wanted to say thank you to them.  With that being said, we'll open it up to any questions and go from there.   
 Q.  Coach, when you look at Wisconsin, what makes their running game --  
GERAD PARKER: Number one, what they do is what they do.  They've done it hundreds and hundreds of times.  They commit to it.  They pick out their formations, their style of running.  They'll do it over and over again.  They'll decorate a little bit with motions and shifts, but when you get through all the cloud and you look at it and you hit pause right before the ball snap, they get back to doing exactly what they do in their run game.  They hit the ball vertically, and they make a decision to go ahead and push the ball down your throat, so to speak.  So you add good players to that; you add good linemen to that and you add a good plan and you have yourself a very formidable run attack.   
 Q.  The quarterback formation that they've been using, how much of an extra challenge is that to prepare for?  
GERAD PARKER: It's not.  That's not the challenge of it.  I think in my opinion, our opinions you would continue to approach those guys the same way because when it comes right down to it, they're going to run the football first and put you in a position to where you better stop that.  After that things can come up and you gotta be ready for things, but first in, first out regardless of the quarterback taking the snap, they're going to run the football at you.   
 Q.  Is this the Big 10's best defense?  
GERAD PARKER: Tough to give you a for-sure yes on not playing all the other ones, but you would for sure say that they have to be right at the top.  This is a great defense, a great scheme that presents several problems, and they've gotta be right at the top.   
 Q.  And lastly, how have you been able to keep the team mood positive?  
GERAD PARKER: You know what, that's hard.  And it's been hard.  And sadly enough, the reason we're in the position where we are right now is because of our past, right, that creates that.  Just as we've talked about, everything is contagious.  Positive attitude is contagious.  A negative attitude is contagious.  Winning is contagious, losing is contagious.  All those things are.  And what I try to do and what the staff's tried to do, but more than anything I've done is I'm never, when I approached this, there wasn't like a win total that I had in mind or anything like that.  I wanted to approach it week by week to give these guys a better chance to change their mental makeup of expecting to win, to play at a high level the best we can and approach it that way, and then everybody can label it as it is.  But I think more than anything, for me to push on them my positivity and how we're going to approach it each week is they're going to follow what my lead is right now, and with that it's not real hard for me to stay positive and keep pushing and do those things.  That's what I've done my whole life.   
 Q.  Gerad, with so much emphasis today in college athletes on the postseason, and I know at the start of the season this team's tangible goal was to get to a bowl game.  
GERAD PARKER: Sure.   
 Q.  That's probably not realistic now.  You talked about playing for the seniors this week, but knowing that a bowl game is probably out of the question, how do you still channel that positive nature?  
GERAD PARKER: Sure.  I think more than anything just out of respect for my name, number one, you know, and who I am and what I've been throughout my coaching career and throughout my life, number one.  And then doing right by the guys, it's the right thing to do.  We talk about all the time, what is the right thing.  The right thing to do is to play your guts out, to celebrate playing a great football team this weekend and celebrate your seniors, who those seniors have been awesome.  And I hate we couldn't do for them -- I hate that I couldn't do more for them to put them in the position of winning.   
We've been in a tough spot.  Everybody knows that.  I've not used it as a crutch once, nor will I, but I think it's the right thing to do to push these guys forward and try to give them reasons.  Why do you go, because you're playing the game.  You get the chance to compete one last team, especially seniors at home, and only two guaranteed left in your life, and why not go out there and play your guts out for your brothers, for your team, for your fans, and that's what we're going to preach.  And that's plenty enough.  I don't think that's an old-school thought of wisdom.  That's the right thing to do and that's what we better do, especially this week or, you know, look out, because they're a great football team.   
 Q.  As physical as they are, and I know you've avoided specifics about injuries, because they are so physical, would that make a determination on a player or two for you that you might or might not use if they're on the fence?  
GERAD PARKER: Sure.  The medical, and I'm not avoiding it at all.  The medical staff and players make those calls.  There's such a firewall up anymore, and rightfully so.  We're concerned about every one of our athletes and their health.  And we've made that very, very aware of that to them.  But in my opinion, if a guy is able and willing and can participate, regardless of who it is you're playing, they should participate, and we only have two left.  So to answer your question, I would say if they're able and willing, I think the right thing to do is to come compete with your guys and get on the field.  If they're not, then we certainly hold them and they don't go.   
 Q.  And last thing from me, this really doesn't have anything to do with Purdue today, but my Associated Press brethren in Florida and Louisiana wanted me to ask you, because you care about people, are you interested at all in the Danny Etling, Austin Appleby game this Saturday, and if so, why?  
GERAD PARKER: Good question.  Of course I care.  I've been around those guys and was around them for a long time, built a relationship with those guys, you know.  So why would we not sit there and keep an eye on it and see how both those guys do?  Wish those guys the best and were around them and spent valuable time with those two guys.  So heck yeah, we'll look it up and have some fun and keep an eye on it to see how those two guys do.   
 Q.  You talked a little bit about the seniors and playing for them this week.  What have they meant to the program and what's been their role through the last couple years?  
GERAD PARKER: Sure.  I mean it's hard because with the lack of success that's been had, I'm sure they're going to walk away with some regrets and/or some tough feelings about not accomplishing some things I'm sure they dreamed of.  But on our end -- all I can do -- they've been great, you know.  I've formed very strong bonds with my wideouts.  That's what you're supposed to do, and that was my job going into this year.  So for the four guys that I have to say good bye to personally in my room that I've put around my family and all those things, I couldn't -- it puts tears in my eyes, honestly, but it's the best group of seniors I've ever coached.  Their production certainly is in that, but them as men.  Bilal Marshall is welcome in my home anytime he wants to come and will always be that way.  Domo Young is a guy that has done nothing -- the college football model and being a student-athlete has done nothing but make that kid a great man and will have a great future because of it and a guy that wears a smile on his face.  And Cameron Posey just to see his growth and who he is as a kid and the man he'll be, and then DeAngelo Yancey and the growth he's had as a person and player.  All those guys, I would let them baby-sit my girls, you know.   
So to speak from the heart on those guys is easy to do.  Then you throw six weeks, five weeks around a whole group of seniors that somehow it's been said, hey, you're responsible for, which is a little crazy, you know.  But you know what, I just think about what they've given to the program and what they've done for our staff, players and for me in this weird time, and all they've done is stared me right through my eyes and said, "whatever you want, whatever you're doing, we love you, appreciate you."  I mean to hear those words and know they mean them, my God, that's all -- what else can I ask for, you know what I mean, for them to work hard, keep the locker room together and pour their guts into this thing with such a huge question mark to the finish of their careers, I just think is special.  Roos came up to me during the game last week, and it just was special.   
So I know I -- I could go on for 10 minutes, you know, so I just think that they have responded to this deal in a way that I can't imagine it going better.  You know what I mean?  And for that, this group of seniors, I can't wait to take a picture of them because they'll always be with me wherever I go.   
 Q.  What did Roos say to you when he came up to you?  
GERAD PARKER: Whew.  He said that he loved me and he wanted me to know that some of this is not my fault and that he'd essentially do anything he could to make sure these two weeks went in a way that was respectful to this team and ^ to me and all those things, and again, it's not about me.  That's why I hesitate to say, it's not.  But for that guy to come up during a tough time of a ballgame and tough end for him and say, "I believe in you and what you're about" and to say thank you to me during a time when it was tough during the game, I just think is -- it meant more to me than anything, to be honest with you.   
And I already thought all those things about him.  But for him to feel that way and express that to me hit me pretty deep, and that's what it is all about.  You know, that is what it is all about.  That's why I coach.  That's why we all coach, I hope, and certainly makes it what it's all worth, and one of these days when we're on a mountain top somewhere, right -- and there will be that day, I can promise you that -- and when we are, one of these days, when my staff is, whatever it is, whenever we're on that mountain top, I'll remember Jordan Roos.  I'll remember this job.  I'll remember all those people and the texts I've gotten, from you all in this room.  That's the things you remember.   
When you're kind, when you do it the right way and people still appreciate it when you're not winning, things aren't going that right, that's when you see true character out of people.  I've seen the ugly of this.  There is no doubt.  And I won't forget that either.  But I've seen the positive in this, too.  I've seen the support come from people that you would never imagine and the support from your family.  The things that have come from this -- the support from our staff, this staff, I tell them every day, thank you.  They have been phenomenal, you know, in a time that's as ugly as it gets for your profession, the staff has been unbelievable.  And you'll remember that.  I'll remember those guys ^ and what they've done for this team and all those things when it's kind of a weird deal.  So it's special.  It really is, and it's something I won't forget.   
 Q.  You mentioned Roos.  He has kind of a unique relationship or friendship with King on the front line there.  I think Hazell used to describe it he said, "those two guys get each other even when I don't get them."  How would you kind of describe their personalities or their friendship?  
GERAD PARKER: Yeah.  You talking about two different ends of the spectrum, right, as far as Roos, outlandish, short shorts, long hair beard, King a little more put together in how he appears, not outlandish, not loud, not all those things, and crazy, but then I think in my opinion they approach the game the same way.  Those guys played tough and played a bunch of snaps here, and I think there's been a -- not I think.  They've developed a great friendship based off of how they approach the game, and they get each other.  No different than a marriage.  Normally you don't have the same personalities.  I know in our home it's not, right?  Thank God for that.  But I think they get each other, understand each other, respect each other.  You got a great friendship if you have all those things, you know?   
 Q.  The position that they play isn't a position that gets a lot of glory, and especially when you're not having the success of maybe winning as many games as you'd like.  Then you also don't have that.  What have they meant to this team in some of the tough times?  
GERAD PARKER: Sure.  They still have big personalities in their own way, and they've played so much football here.  Guys know who they are in that locker room.  Roos is a great leader and a voted captain.  King is a great leader and could easily have been a captain.  But when you play that much football there, and they've got a great presence about them, they're good friends, they're good players, there's easily a quick respect throughout the whole team.  So I think that's what they've gotten more than anything, as much as they don't get as much recognition because of all that, throughout our team they do, and they should throughout our locker room because of what they've done for the program and how they've been able to handle the tough parts of this time together, and especially these last six weeks.  Those guys have been phenomenal.   
 Q.  I'll just ask you one more, and this is more specific to the game coming up here.  This is going to be your fourth straight running backs you're going to be playing one of the top four in the Big 10, which is tough, but has that prepared you in any way, playing some of these other running backs, or what are the challenges of playing so many good running backs?  
GERAD PARKER: You sure hope it's beneficial, you know.  If we had a choice, probably rather not.  Right?  But I mean welcome to the Big 10, you know, and Power Five football.  He's another great player.  It's another great running attack and another great football team we're playing.  It's been a great run of five weeks; right?  They're a great football team.  They're ranked right where they should be, if not higher.  There's no mistakes.  So they've done a great job.  They've played their guts out.  They play hard and make you earn every inch, and that's a pretty good personality to have as a football team, certainly one I'm sure every coach would want to promote moving forward.  So we have our hands full but we have played great backs in the past, we're going to have to do a great job against this one to slow these guys down.   
 Q.  Can you clarify Ja'Whaun Bentley's status?  
GERAD PARKER: I can't.  And again, respectfully, I can't.  But he wasn't available Saturday.   
 Q.  Other times you've talked, you're not talking about specific injuries, you've said that a player wasn't able to play because of injury.  
GERAD PARKER: Sure.   
 Q.  Was that the case for him or is it something not injury related?  
GERAD PARKER: Yeah.  That was the case.   
 Q.  Brian Lankford-Johnson got extra -- got some more back field reps than he'd gotten in weeks before that.  What did you see from him in that regard, outside of just running the ball, the other things that were keeping him off the field maybe?  
GERAD PARKER: Yeah.  Sure.  It's nothing -- I love him.  He's a great kid, you know what I mean?  He's trying to figure it out.  A little bit of an immature approach to it at times that have become sporadic in his attention to detail as a runner, in pass protection, all those things, in ball security, which popped up during the game, all those things, and they're normal things.  He's not defiant.  He's a great kid.  He's just learning how to do it at a young age, and with his gifted abilities and the things he has for the future, if he continues to approach it week by week the way he needs to and the way he did a little bit last week and what he'll continue to do this week, because I've challenged him already, and Coach Smith's done a great job with him.  But it's just like anything, you bring in a young kid, hadn't had to prepare all the time that way because he's so much more gifted than everybody on the field in high school, then you have to put all that together.  So it's just things like that that he's continued to improve upon, and he's had to grow up quick here.  He's had to grow up in a quick way.   
 Q.  Your defense has started creating turnovers in the last couple of weeks in a way they weren't in previous weeks, especially I guess from the defensive backs getting some interceptions.  Have you seen anything different or anything they're doing better in that regard in these last couple weeks?  
GERAD PARKER: Well, and you always gotta continue to do it better than you're doing it.  But they have.  You would argue that some of it is a little bit of what you ask as far as not moving a guy around.  We try to leave them -- we played more zone, which puts more eyes on the ball.  So that's a factor.  I think our guys are starting to continue to study more to get a better feel for those things so you can get the ball out of the air when it does get in the air.  Those things have happened and those things we've done good.  Now we have to continue not to let it over our head and come up and get off blocks better, all those things to get better.  Some things schematically they've done a great job putting them in and also those guys just owning it more to put them in a position to try to get some takeaways.   
 Q.  You already talked a little bit obviously about the senior class, but can you sort of encapsulate what you think the senior class's legacy is and what they're leaving behind them going forward?  
GERAD PARKER: Sure.  There's always some outliers, but for the most part the whole senior class, number one, I think they have completely -- it pours out of them, in my opinion, their ability to come back to work each week in a time that hadn't been easy to do, especially these last six.  They've come back to work and busted their tails and bought in to the process of doing that and realize it may not be what we wanted to get to; we didn't get the prize per se, but they got themselves at a point where their in games going out in the halftimes and all those things, and you hate that it hadn't bled over and we didn't finish a couple of them at least and all those things, but I think you've seen a group of guys that have battled their tails off in a tough time and a tough run of four years and done nothing but go to work and work their tails off in the off season.   
And as far as their legacy, it's not going to be what they want.  It's not going to be four straight bowls.  It's not going to be things that everybody would want or desire, but you want to make sure there is legacy left and how they finish in Ross-Ade, how they finish next week and all those things that could help that legacy, too.   
 Q.  Is the lack of fans at the games at all affecting this team?  Is it something that you guys talk about as a team?  
GERAD PARKER: No.  We don't talk about it.  My goodness, I went over to Mackey after we got done last night and got a chance to watch the second half.  And again, I've been very, very open and honest about this.  You certainly can't say go in there and play, that was a great atmosphere last night and what a great effort our basketball team made.  That was a great environment and a great basketball team they played and played a great game.   
The reason I say that is it would be crazy not to acknowledge if there were -- if that place were packed out every weekend, that environment helps you.  You are what your environment is.  Now, we all have to own why that environment's not it either.  And that's why we're in the position we're in, no question.  There's four tough years.  It's a two-fold deal.  And because the situation it's in and where it's in, there's been a lot of things happen bad over there, this is a day and age where they're not going to come over and support and be there in droves like they are in other stadiums and like they were in Mackey last night.  And I get that.  I'm a fan, too.  So that's why -- it's not like we're sitting there saying, hey, fans.  We get it.  I understand their frustrations.  Sure, we'd love for them to come out in droves this weekend for our seniors.  I would.  And before anything would hit Twitter, I would say, not for me; come out and support our seniors, in ugly weather, on a windy day, and watch a great football team square off against us, and we're going to try to play our guts out for you and give you something you'll be proud of, and everybody can move on to the next week.   
But again, what do we, stand up here now as the interim head coach and say, don't come watch the seniors, we're just trying to finish these two weeks.  Are you serious?  You know, I'm not doing that.  Again, long after I'm gone or whatever happens to my future and other coaches' futures and all those things, how does Purdue Football change?  How does it change?  You all know this.  I believe this with all my heart.  It changes by your approach to every single step you take.  Some of those I've been able to change and affect; some of them we didn't have time to and can't.  How it's going to change is by everybody aiming big, thinking big, approaching every piece of the organization big and having everybody around here think the same way and approach it and embrace it.  That's how it'll happen.   
So we would love for the fans to come out and see us and pay tribute to the seniors and do all those things, but in the flip of that, I certainly -- we certainly understand why it is in the position it is.  We get it and I understand that.   
 Q.  You're a competitive guy obviously.  
GERAD PARKER: Yes.   
 Q.  When you go into a game like this, do you get excited about game planning against a team that's very, very good and you guys are limited in some areas?  
GERAD PARKER: Sure.  You always do.  And heck, everybody in that building I sure hope is.  But I know it's a little bit over the top how we approach sometimes.  But it is exciting.  It's like anything; as a kid competing in all those things, you knew when you were playing a great football team, probably your level went up.  You sure hope so.  And I hope that's what happens to our football team this week.  We know we're playing a very good football team.  We better have a notch up in it to compete, just like we did at Nebraska and Penn State, all those things, and then find a way to get the thing into the third and fourth quarter.  So it is exciting to go play them, and it's a pleasure to watch them on film.  They're a great football team.   
 Q.  How much more zone did you play than typical for this season?  
GERAD PARKER: I don't know.  I wouldn't be able to say, hey, put a numerical value on it, but it was more.  You know what I mean?  It was more, and then goes back to the question last week of that's why we decided not to because we thought, hey, it's zone anyway, why not put guys in familiar spots.  But it was more, and you know what, they did a great job.  If you sit there and watch the intense match of game planning during the game, what a great job they did of changing some things in their routes to attack the zones we were playing.  That's the game.  And they did a good job with it.   
 Q.  Did you like it enough that it'll matter this week?  
GERAD PARKER: Good question.  All based off of certain different approach to what we're going to see by their personnel, too.  This will be -- jokingly, I would say this is just like going into the Civil War.  This will more look like a Civil War.  We're going to be five feet from each other and ready, aim, fire and here we go.   
 Q.  Are they mostly like 12 and 22 personnel?  
GERAD PARKER: Mostly.  Not all or exclusive.  But that's what they want to be.  And they get creative enough with it, and then they'll get into some 11 personnel to have fun with you, too.  But when it gets down to brass tacks, as they say, you're going to see 21 and 12 and things of multiple tight end sets and here we go.   
 Q.  What's the plan for Senior Day, like before the game?  When are you going to have the guys come out and do all that kind of thing?  
GERAD PARKER: Yeah, it'll be, from what I understand, we've looked at it obviously, it's going to be very, very similar to what's been done in the past.  We didn't want to change it up and get too creative with those things.  I wanted to spend more time with families and parents, which I'll do.  But otherwise, as far as the game-day setting, we'll still have our parents out on the field.  Our players will run through and be able to go see them and get pictures with them.   
 Q.  Is that like 20 minutes before the kickoff or something?  
GERAD PARKER: Yeah, roughly.  I think it's a little less than that.  We're still looking at the exact time, but it's right in there.  Our guys will go out a little bit earlier, but I think it's a little later than 20.   
 Q.  Why is Wisconsin's defense good?  
GERAD PARKER: Good question.  The things you know are they've got a great pass rush.  They play two great fronts.  They'll bring in two different types of personnel and play two great fronts that create major pass issues.  They're active in the back end in the way that they play a lot of man coverage, but it's not a lot of man blitz stuff.  They're still able to mess with you enough where they'll run away from you and still have a lot of eyes on the ball and have an extra player to sit there and rob eyes of the quarterback.   
And they're real responsive at corner.  You know, when you think that you can sit down and run something, they'll jump and sit on you, they squat on you and all those things and it's still hard to get the ball above their head.  But at the end of the day what makes great defenses, I tell you what, as soon as the ball is thrown, five guys close; as soon as the ball is ran, more than five guys close.  They close gaps and things that look open.  When you watch NFL film, something that looks like a huge run and then the gap closes like that.  So that's what they do, they close to the ball as good as any team we've played.   
 Q.  How does David Blough need to be better this week than he was last week?  
GERAD PARKER: He knows it, and we all know it.  He owns it.  We'll always take it first.  But he knows he has to be more accurate.  Heck, it wasn't his decisions.  You know what I mean?  You all know that.  He didn't make a bad decision.  Maybe one.  It's one of those, the adage of it's a good pass, it was the right decision, just a bad one.  It was a good decision, just a bad pass.  He just missed his spot, and it turned out to be three -- you know, you look at his game, you could easily compile it into six or seven bad plays.  That's all it was, six or seven.  But those six or seven were tough ones.  So he'll have to be more accurate, and we've gotta take care of him, and he'll handle it good, and we fully expect him to play well this week.   
 Q.  Was that a designed quarterback sneak that he did something else on or was that the play for him to run outside^ ?  
GERAD PARKER: Again, not too give too much away, but actually there's three different options on it, and that was one of them.  And we used it, and it was a great call by Terry and something we talked about.  Didn't think we needed to kick it again and go up six.  But it was designed.  He had three different options on the play.   
 Q.  The first drive you kicked a field goal of 26 yards.  Seems to go kind of against what you've been.  
GERAD PARKER: I know.   
 Q.  Why the decision there?  
GERAD PARKER: Just trying to be a part of the norm, I guess.  (Laughs).  The staff, I kind of gave them the look because I knew what I wanted to do, and I saw that need for us to get on the board, which I got.  So I thought it was important for us to kind of say, hey, let's take points here, get on the board and get some confidence.  ^ So we did, and then I didn't ask on the next one.  But believe me, that was my fault.   
 Q.  Lorenzo Neal was in a boot, obviously did not play.  Will he play again this season?  
GERAD PARKER: Good question.  And one I don't have honestly do not have the answer to.  But whew, yeah.   
 Q.  Quick followup, Mendez, Worship and Lorenzo are not on the two deep.  Is that an indication that they are not available this weekend?  
GERAD PARKER: It could be a good indication, depending on how you would want to take that:  I'm prayful.   
 Q.  What is your opinion on Wisconsin's offense?  
GERAD PARKER: Well, so the first thing you notice, you know, again, in thinking about game planning and attacking somebody, you say, what is the major, major problem for us.  And it's their run game.  I mean they're really, really good at what they do.  They'll control the clock on you.  You know, there's teams against them that had 48 plays, 50 some plays on offense, on their offense.  So they'll just bleed the clock on you, and before you know it, the game's over.  So the toughest thing is going to be the amount of possessions you're going to get against a wonderful defense and them imposing their will in the run game.  And they'll do enough in the pass game to be effective, but at the end of the day, the most impressive part is the run game and what they do to you by lulling you to sleep and taking the air out of the ball, so to speak, and handing it off.   
 Q.  And without giving away any specifics, have you guys done anything differently defensively to get ready for that?  
GERAD PARKER: Sure.  You have to.  Of course, no specifics, but you have to, you know, because it is different.  It's much different than playing the way Northwestern plays compared to this one.  So it's going to be different, and it has to be, just as though everybody else that's tried to attack them has, too.  They find a way to still succeed at that, so big, big test and one that we'll try everything we can to slow it down.   
By ASAP Sports   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT