UBS HONG KONG OPEN
November 21, 2008
Chawalit Plaphol
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SHENTON GOMEZ: Firstly, two steady rounds for you, good job. You must be feeling very happy.   
 CHAWALIT PLAPHOL: Very happy, yeah.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ: So two good rounds, what do you think has been working for you out there?   
 CHAWALIT PLAPHOL: Firstly, to play on this course, I tried not to use my driver. Mostly I used my fairway 3-wood and tried to be on the fairway and not play too aggressive. I wanted to make sure to be on the green so I could have a chance at birdie.  
  
  Q. You've been in this position before among the leaders and you've won on the Asian Tour, so what is your mental approach to this event being a leader?   
 CHAWALIT PLAPHOL: For me, I think whoever can hit the fairway and get on the green on the approach shot, that person can win. So I think for this week, I will try to hit on the fairway as many times as I can and to get on the green so I can have opportunities for birdies.   
  
  Q. As you can see, an Asian player ha not won this tournament in ten years. Would it would be ideal winning this tournament as an Asian player?   
 CHAWALIT PLAPHOL: There will be some pressure for this event, being in the lead among all of the Europeans. I realise that an Asian player has not won for quite a long time, and there are a lot of star players and a lot of European Tour players and there are a lot of spectators that will cheer more for the star players or European players. So I will feel a little pressure for that.   
  
  Q. You don't think the Hong Kong fans will support you?   
 CHAWALIT PLAPHOL: A lot of Asian spectators, of course will, support me, but compared to some of the bigger names, maybe I will be lucky enough or not lucky enough to play with some of the star players if I'm still leading. So the spectators might cheer more for the stars or big-name players.   
 SHENTON GOMEZ: Thank you very much and good luck.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT