NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v LIGHTNING
June 6, 2015
Jon Cooper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Jon, regarding Jonathan Drouin, do you expect him to play tonight?   If so, what do you hope to see from him?  
COACH COOPER:   Well, for these playoffs, we've also put 21 in warmup.   You have to show up to the game to see who's going to play.   
But Jo, he's a talented player.   We've watched him grow this season.   He gives us a different look when he's in the lineup.   
It's hard to sit here and say what you expect.   I'm going to sit here and say, I expect every single guy on our team to have a hat trick tonight and to win, what would that be, 20 ‑‑ 60‑0.   It doesn't work out that way (laughter).   
We expect our guys to produce, stick to our structure, play as hard as you can, look in the mirror at the end of the day and say, I have no regrets.   If he's in, that's what I expect.   
   
 Q.   When you're making that decision, how much do you factor in the fact he hasn't played in a bit and is going in cold?  
COACH COOPER:   Well, I think that happens with a lot of the players in the playoffs.   A team doesn't make a playoff run and be injury‑free.   Other guys have to step in.   Barberio had to step in, Vlady stepped in, Marchessault stepped in.   We go down the list.   
Your job as a player, you have to be a pro.   You have to make yourself ready.   Yes, is it going to take, if he's in tonight, going to get bumped a little differently, feel the flow of the game, the speed of the game?   There's no question.   They're National Hockey League players.   If anything, these guys come in, they don't have the bumps and bruises, they're a little fresh, they're probably a little better off.   
   
 Q.   You talked yesterday about the grind, everything that goes on in this run in the playoffs.   You had one game basically in eight days from Game 7 going into tonight.   Has that helped you with all these bumps and bruises that you have?  
COACH COOPER:   There's no question.   I don't always sit here and say it's the physical bumps and bruises.   It's the mental aspect of the game.   That's where you really have to kind of recharge.   
I've found as this goes on that's a big part of everything.   So I think it was great for us.   I thought in Game1 we came out with a lot of energy, we were sharp.   I think a big part of that was because we had the break.   
   
 Q.   If you do play Drouin, are you thinking of going 12 and 6, or is 11 and 7 going to happen regardless?  
COACH COOPER:   How about 10 and 8 (laughter)?   
   
 Q.   You've had quite a few too many men on the ice penalties during these playoffs.   Have you figured out what's been going on there?  
COACH COOPER:   Too many men, it's a bench penalty.   I'll take the blame for those.   I got to be better.   
   
 Q.   What do you expect from the Blackhawks in this game?   Quenneville said he looks at this as a Game 7.   We saw what they did with Anaheim in Game 7.   Do you expect them to come out busting tonight?  
COACH COOPER:   Couple Cups here in the last few years.   Two teams left.   They're one of the ones standing.   I don't expect them to lay down.   
To be honest, I don't care how they come out.   I'm worried about how we come out.   
To me moving forward, it's really not about the Chicago Blackhawks, it's about the Tampa Bay Lightning.   That's where we're focused.   
   
 Q.   Eight shot attempts for Steven Stamkos in Game1.   Would you ideally like to give him some more looks and maybe give him a bit more ice time tonight?  
COACH COOPER:   Well, the more he shoots, the better chance there is they go in.   
I mean, you get eight shot attempts in a game, I mean, he had some good chances.   He had the great look in the second period with a minute and a half left.   Crawford made a great save.   
But the more he shoots, the better he is.   Clearly Stammer is a big part of our team, if not the biggest part of our team.   I always say when Victor Hedman is rolling and Steven Stamkos is rolling, the Tampa Bay Lightning are rolling.   
That kid has battled his way through adversity in these playoffs, especially when people were on him in that Detroit series, and all Stammer has done is rise to the occasion.   
We're down a game here and I expect that kid will come out flying.  
   
 Q.   Will you give him more ice time tonight then?  
COACH COOPER:   I mean, I don't know what that means.   Should I just play him the whole game, like all 60?   
   
 Q.   Somewhere between 18 and 22.   
COACH COOPER:   18, okay.   So if he plays 20 minutes, I should give him two more shifts.   I'll think about that tonight.   
Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT