NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: LIGHTNING v RANGERS
May 16, 2015
Jon Cooper
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you have an update on Ryan Callahan?   Will he play today?   
COACH COOPER:   He'll be in warm‑ups.   We'll make a decision then.   Pretty tough kid though, so I suspect he'll play.  
   
 Q.   How would you describe your coaching style compared to other coaches?   And who was your mentor?   
COACH COOPER:   Oh, God.   Those are the questions you need to send in in advance (laughing).   To be honest, I think‑‑ oh, I don't even know how to answer that question.   I guess when I got into coaching, I think I brought the life philosophy to coaching.   I was probably more of a life coach when I started out than a tactical coach.   I had to learn more tactically and systematic coaching as I kind of went up in my career and the more serious I got about it.   
When I was still coaching high school hockey and as I went on to Junior B and Midgets, I spent a lot of time around the Michigan State program.   I was an attorney in East Lansing at the time, and I used to go watch Ron Mason at his practices and talk with him quite a bit.   So probably early on he was somebody that was probably the best coach.   He was right in his prime at the time and he was the one right in my backyard, so I used to go watch him a lot.   
As I got going, I think I don't know if I was just‑‑ other coaches I would meet and I would sit with.   I remember before I got in the NHL, Joel Quenneville and Mike Babcock were two guys before I even got to this league I made a point of going out of my way to meet and talk and be with, and still today I converse with them about different things.   Obviously, not the same way we used to speak.   But as I got going, those were guys at the time I looked up to.   
Other than that I watched a lot.   I watched a lot of people.   I went to a lot of hockey.   I went to practices of all sorts just to see how people did things, and if you pull a mentor out of that, that's probably it.   
Other than my coaching style, I don't know.   I'm a hockey coach.   Lot of people ask me what I do, and lot of times I say I'm a people manager.   That's kind of what I do.   And a lot of my philosophy is I manage people.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT