WASTE MANAGEMENT PHOENIX OPEN
January 31, 2020
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. 6-under, 65 today. If we can get some comments on your round.
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I played solid. Hit a lot of good putts. Hit it really good in the middle of the round. Didn't hit it quite as good towards the end, but putted really well and was able to make some birdies out there.
Q. How important is embracing the vibe of this event in terms of being able to have success here?
J.B. HOLMES: You just have to deal with it. I don't know if embracing it, dealing with it, you just kind of have to know what's going to happen. Late in the day like this there's going to be a lot of people that are having a lot of fun and don't really know that golf's being played, so you just have to be aware of it and know that that situation's coming and just be ready for it.
Q. Did that happen on 18?
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, there was some people being really, really loud there, so I just I tried to back off and ended up it was a pretty simple bunker shot and just didn't hit a good one. So, like I said, we got to, you got to be ready for that.
Q. Do you enjoy being able to give that smirk on 16?
J.B. HOLMES: It's always fun making putts and making 2s out there. So everybody over there on that hole is having a good time, so it's nice to be able to make a birdie, and it's just a cool hole.
Q. What's the craziest PG thing that you've seen out there?
J.B. HOLMES: I haven't seen a whole lot. I pretty much just been focusing on golf, so I haven't been looking around all that much.
Q. What was working in that stretch on 15, 16, 17?
J.B. HOLMES: Like I said, I hit really good putts. I hit a great 5-iron on the par-5, almost eagled that one. And I hit a great iron on the next hole, it went a little long, but made a great putt. And then tee shot on 17 was fabulous, so that gave me a shorter putt for eagle and luckily I made it.
Q. How do you approach the weekend now going out in the final group?
J.B. HOLMES: Just the same way. There's going to be a lot of people, it's going to be really loud, and just keep doing what I've been doing, hopefully keep making putts and not change the strategy. It's worked pretty good so far.
Q. When you crushed that drive on 17, did you have a feeling it was making the green?
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, when I hit it, I thought it had a pretty good chance. I was just worried about it maybe going too far left. But when I hit it, I thought it was, I thought I hit it about right and hopefully it would hit into that bank or bounce just up and it did.
Q. How different are you as a player from when you won here?
J.B. HOLMES: I feel like -- you want to say you've grown a lot. I don't hit it as far as I used to. That was when I just came out, so I could move it a little bit better. I still get it out there, but the golf course has changed more than anything, like, 12 holes are different than they were when I played last time -- or when I won last time, so they have changed the course a whole lot.
Q. Do you sense that people recognize you as a former champion here even though it's been a little while?
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I still -- people yelling, Go get the third one and stuff like that. So they're, there's a mixture of people out here, some people that are really knowledgeable and there are some people that are just having fun, so you got everybody out here at this event.
Q. Is it impossible to focus -- like is it, not impossible to focus, but is it just like impossible to not pay attention a little bit to the crowd on at least Saturday?
J.B. HOLMES: We try not to, I mean only when they, if they get out of hand. I mean, if they start being rude or anything like that. And like, it's just like anything else, 99 percent of the people out here are doing a good job and there's always a couple idiots. So those guys can stand out or yell at the wrong time or whatever, but in general it's, everybody's pretty good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT