SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 5, 2009
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. You think 11 will hold up?  
 J.B. HOLMES: I don't know. It's tough out there but, you know, every week when somebody wins they always seem to put up an incredible number. Last few holes should be fun to watch for everybody because they're very difficult.  
  
  Q. J.B., can you talk about what it's like to stand at 18 tee today, back with this kind of wind?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Scary, terrifying. It's a very intimidating tee shot. After you hit that, the next shot is just as hard, if not harder. The bail out is right. If you do bail it out you got the bunker shot I had. It's not easy. It's very tough. The last few holes the way they got it set-up is very tough.  
  
  Q. Is this hole too hard with the wind? Is it unfair, I guess?  
 J.B. HOLMES: It's not unfair. If the wind got much harder it would be but there's still some pretty decent scores up there. It's difficult, it's very difficult.  
  
  Q. Talk a little bit about it's been mentally taxing today everything you've gone through to come back and play a larger number of holes to finish this. Thing?  
 J.B. HOLMES: I was exhausted yesterday. I played 35 holes yesterday and straight back to the room and just go to sleep. Then you got to get up at 5:45 the next day. It's been a long week. I feel like this is the sixth or seventh round and it was just the fourth. Just funny. I got to get up early today to finish the third round. Coming in Sunday, haven't finished three rounds yet. It's just the way everything worked out.  
  
  Q. Is the wind picking up when you got off fairly early?  
 J.B. HOLMES: I think so. Unless it dies down, then I don't think it will be. Right now it's blowing pretty good. It was nice to get out early but it was still blowing, you know, when we started. So not quite as hard but, you know, I had to play nine holes with a 40-mile an hour gust earlier this week. I don't feel sorry for the leaders.  
  
  Q. Any explanation for catching fire after you made the turn. Kind of looked like maybe you weren't so much in it and just kind of --  
 J.B. HOLMES: Made some birdies. I never thought I was out of it. I was 8-under and the wind howling. I'm three shots off the lead. Never thought I was out ever it. Take a couple birdies and that's where you got to score on this golf course, you know, 10, 11, 12, 13, and short par short par 4 there.  
  
  Q. Are you going to the range now?  
 J.B. HOLMES: I've got about two hours. I'll probably go to the locker room and go to the range when it starts getting closer.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT