MERRILL LYNCH SHOOTOUT
December 13, 2008
J.B. Holmes
Boo Weekley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOHN BUSH: We'd like to welcome J. B Holmes and Boo Weekley into the interview room here at the Merrill Lynch Shootout. 10-under par 62, and they'll enter the final round four shots behind the leaders.   
 Boo, get some comments on the day.  
 BOO WEEKLEY: Overall it was a great day. I mean, I really didn't help out J.B. but a couple holes. I kind of rode him pretty good today. He played extremely well, and I'm impressed. We still can't get the putts to fall. If we get those putts to fall, we got them.  
 JOHN BUSH: J.B.?   
 J.B. HOLMES: You know, yeah, we played pretty good. We didn't birdie the same hole ever, I don't think. Maybe 17.   
 So, you know, played pretty good. 10-under, I thought that would be a pretty good score and we would probably move up a little bit today. But looks like Kenny and Scott played phenomenal looks like.  
  
  Q. J.B., what did you have for eagle on 17? What was the putt and what was the read, and was that kind of crucial at this point?   
 J.B. HOLMES: I mean, that would have helped, but I don't know about crucial at this point. But it was, I don't know, 18 feet, something like that, and I watched Zach's chip break pretty good to the left, and I hit it right where I wanted to and good speed. Like it has all week, it's the same putt and it does something different every time on these greens. We haven't been able to read them.  
  
  Q. Is four an amount you guys can make up tomorrow with your power?  
 J.B. HOLMES: I think so. We'll have to play great obviously. If Kenny and Scott go out there and play really well, then I don't know if we'll be able to do it then.   
 If we play really good and maybe early get up on them and put some pressure on them maybe, but they have a pretty good lead for a scramble.   
 If they continue to play like they are now and make a bunch of putts, yeah, they'll be hard to catch.  
 JOHN BUSH: Boo, how is the game coming around?   
 BOO WEEKLEY: It's slowly but surely. Like I said, I rode J.B. pretty good the last two days. It's getting there. I mean, I feel like tomorrow if I can get it in play for him and turn him loose we'll have a pretty good chance.  
  
  Q. You got a Champions Tour player and an almost Champions Tour player. Is that going to help you guys out?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: I think what it is, they just got a little more knowledge than we do. That's why they're playing so well. They got a little more rounds under their belts.  
  
  Q. Will you do any horse antics to inspire the crowd, get them in your corner?  
 BOO WEEKLEY: No. They're here to watch the golf, man.  
  
  Q. J.B. you've both seen Kenny play. Well, you've both seen Kenny play. Talk about what you're facing tomorrow with him.   
 J.B. HOLMES: Well, when Kenny is on he hits every shot about three feet from the hole. If he's on, like I said, it'll be tough to beat 'em. I enjoy playing with Kenny, and it'll be fun to play with him tomorrow. Hopefully we can give them a run for their money.   
 JOHN BUSH: Anything else? All right, guys, play well tomorrow.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT