THE RYDER CUP
September 21, 2008
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. J.B., growing up here in Kentucky, did you ever imagine a day like this?  
 J.B. HOLMES: No, I couldn't imagine this. Hopefully we can finish this thing off and get a victory, get that Cup back. Best moment of my life right now. I'm just so excited. This is just an unbelievable day. I don't know what to say.  
  
  Q. Congratulations on an awesome performance.   
 J.B. HOLMES: Thank you very much.   
  
  Q. Describe what that was like floating around this golf course being cheered onto every tee and green.   
 J.B. HOLMES: I'm still flying. I think I'm higher now than I was out on the golf course, just an unbelievable feeling. To be able to be on a Ryder Cup team, to win two points, is just unbelievable, and to be able to do it in my home state, I couldn't in my farthest dreams have imagined this thing to play out like this. I'm just so excited right now, and I'm so happy. I hope our team can finish this off.  
  
  Q. Did you feel under pressure as a captain's pick?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I felt a little bit. I got a little heat for making it and maybe Paul got a little heat for picking me. I wanted to work hard and show him that I belonged on the team. I feel like I did a pretty good job.  
  
  Q. Your tee shot at 17, it must have been 370 or 380, whatever it was, but the pitch shot, did you feel you had to go for the flag there?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Well, yeah, he's got up-and-down all day. He almost made birdie from there. Yeah, I was going right at it. I had 79 yards to the flag. I mean, I'm a professional golfer; I can't shoot away from the pin.   
  
  Q. One more for your Kentucky folks.   
 J.B. HOLMES: Go 'Cats.   
  
  Q. You started these matches off on Friday morning as a cheerleader, forecaddying for your teammates; you ended on Sunday afternoon with your teammates cheering for you.   
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, it's a great feeling. This whole week has just been unbelievable, so hopefully we can finish this off here.   
  
  Q. You're known as such a big hitter, and yet after you hit it 350, 360 out here at the 17th, you hit a wedge in there, and you have the finesse even though you're a long hitter to hit a wedge within two feet on the 17th hole to close out the match.   
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, got to make birdie on this hole. You've got to make birdie. It's not a real hard hole, especially hitting it in there and I've got 75 yards, so I've got to go for birdie there.  
  
  Q. How was it to have this take place in the Commonwealth of Kentucky?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Unbelievable. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. I'm glad I got here, and I'm glad I was able to come through for the team.  
  
  Q. This match was all square going to 16. Talk about the 16th hole.   
 J.B. HOLMES: Well, I hit a great shot in there and made birdie.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT