U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP 2017
June 16, 2017
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You're in the thick of it in the weekend.  Your thoughts of what's to come tomorrow?  
J.B. HOLMES: Hopefully a lot of birdies is to come.  I haven't seen the weather.  I don't know if it looks that great for tomorrow.  But I like this golf course, we'll just keep doing the same thing I've been doing.  The same plan, and get on the fairway, and be aggressive as you can, and take your par.  Get through the tough pin and get to the next hole?   
 Q.  How did you feel about the round today?  
J.B. HOLMES: It was good.  I felt pretty good about it.  Hit some good putts.  Hit a lot of shots probably better today than I did yesterday.  It was a good round for me.   
 Q.  Is there something about this course that lends itself to a more bunched leaderboard than maybe we're used to seeing in this tournament?  
J.B. HOLMES: It's so long.  You can make a bogey kind of anywhere, and it's hard to make a ton.  You're going to make some bogies.  As long as you hit so many fairways, and if you miss one, it's easy to make a bogey.  Like I said, you can make some birdies, but nobody's going to make nine birdies out there.  If you get four or five, that's pretty good.  You're going to make some bogies in there, so it's really hard to get away from anybody.   
 Q.  What's been really good with your game these last couple days?  
J.B. HOLMES: I've been putting well, been hitting irons.  Just all aspects of my game are pretty solid.  Probably putting.  I've been putting really good.  Irons have been good, and driving well.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
J.B. HOLMES: Couple, maybe twice.  Maybe just once.  I don't know.  I hit it in the rough once today, but not a lot.   
 Q.  (Inaudible)?  
J.B. HOLMES: No, it's the same game plan.  So kind of got that ready before the tournament started.  You know, hit it in the fairway, like I said, be aggressive.  Par's always a good score out here.  So I've just been listening to my caddie and just hitting where he says.  So I'm not thinking too much.   
 Q.  Given the length of this course, are you surprised there's not more bombers near the top of the leaderboard?  
J.B. HOLMES: It's still golf.  You've got to make putts.  Some of it almost takes the bombers out of it.  But a 675-yard par-5, nobody's hitting to that.  So that kind of takes the advantage away from the bombers.  You would think the longer ones.  But you're all kind of hitting in the same spot.   
So, you know, all the guys hitting up there, everybody out here hits it pretty good.  If you're striping them different, you can take advantage.  But you've got to hit them in the right spots out here and make some tough putts.   
 Q.  You're listening to your caddie and not thinking too much.  Have you ever overthought?  
J.B. HOLMES: Everybody has.  It's golf.  You're thinking all the time.  So I just went into it.  I've been doing that lately.  Just pressing too hard.  I was just like, all right.  This is your golf tournament.  You're playing this week.  Wherever you point, I'm just going to hit it there.  It's worked so far, so we'll just stick to that.   
 Q.  Any lessons from the Masters last year from Troon that you're going to be able to apply this weekend?  
J.B. HOLMES: I mean, not those individual tournaments.  But, I mean, in the end it's a golf tournament.  I've played in a lot of golf tournaments.  I've played well in big tournaments.  I've won tournaments.  So that's a long ways away.  We're halfway through, you just go out there and as boring as it sounds, you just plot along, one shot at a time.   
 Q.  What is the longest you've hit hole?  
J.B. HOLMES: Easiest question is where I didn't hit driver out there.  I hit it on every hole today.  It's one of those courses where you can definitely be aggressive off the tee, and it's fun.  That's what you get at the U.S. Open.   
 Q.  Are you expecting the scores to creep back to par over the weekend?  
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, it always does that.  Every time you have a difficult golf course, they'll jump out at the beginning, and Rickie had that great run yesterday, and he's seeing 7.  Today really kind of stayed the same.  Still 7.  Yeah, the golf course always, depends on the weather.  The golf course usually gets firmer.  Where the weather goes, the more difficult the golf course is going to get.  So probably -- you never know.  The weather can change anything.  It could be soft and the scores might get lower.  If it's raining and we're playing into the wind, you just never know.   
 Q.  What is the longest iron you've hit into a par-4?  
J.B. HOLMES: I guess today was probably 7-iron.   
 Q.  It looked like you have good trust in your caddie.  If he gives you some wrong information, do you blame him or yourself?  
J.B. HOLMES: He doesn't give me wrong information too much.  He would be out of here, if he did.  Like I said, I told him it was his tournament.  I'll just try to hit it where he aims me and go from there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT