THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2007
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Great round, I imagine after 15 you must be pretty excited; hard to keep it in the moment?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  No, I was playing well.  Just made two bogeys, a couple bad shots.  I was calm all day.  Could have been better but all it comes down to is a great round.   
  
  Q.  How many birdies or chip-ins?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  I chipped in on the last birdie on 14.   
  
  Q.  When did you really know you had it going?  Did you have a sense early?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  I guess it was probably about on 8, I made my fourth birdie.  I drove it on 7 and I was on the very, very appropriate, a very, very difficult putt and I had a 3-putt on that one so it could have been better.  I made a really long putt like on 4.   
 It was just pretty good all day.  I was just solid.  It wasn't anything -- I was making some putts.  I was hitting it in there 10, 15 feet and making it.  So it was good ball-striking and good putting, and I chipped one in on 14 and got a little lucky there.  Then I had a little rough finish.   
  
  Q.  Drive on 10?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  3-wood today.  I hit driver the last two days.   
  
  Q.  This course is known as a shot-maker's kind of course, long hitters have won here, what do you make out of that as a long hitter?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  I only hit four drivers today.  Just got to hit 3-woods and put it where you need to.  It's a placement golf course and you have to make some putts out here and get some longer shots into the holes.  There's holes you can make birdies, holes you can make bogeys.  On tough holes, just try to make par, hit it to the green and 2-putt and when you get a chance at birdie attack the pin.   
  
  Q.  You had to make up a lot of ground after the first round, did you ever think you would get back in it so quickly?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  You know, I knew I could do it.  I just wasn't likely, so I've been playing well and I played well first two days.  I thought before the tournament started I was hitting the ball great.  And we had first tee times, we started playing and I was just trying to keep the ball on the greens.  I got a few bad breaks and I didn't hit it as well obviously, but I didn't hit it as bad as 5-over.   
  
  Q.  Do you play differently when you come into the third round that far back, do you say, "I've got to go for it," that kind of thing?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  No.  When you're that far back, you don't want to -- if you're 12 shots back, you don't say, well, I need to birdie every hole to win.  You've got to keep it going; you've still got to play safe.  You've still got to make birdies when they are there and make putts.  There's 36 holes left, play conservative, shoot 5-under out here and make a few putts.  I wasn't trying to be more aggressive than any of the other days.  I just rolled in a few putts and was hitting close.   
  
  Q.  A little different, too, because there's points on the table; it's not so much whether you win or not but you can still makeup a lot of ground?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  You know, I don't even think anything about the points.  Just play golf and whatever happens, happens.   
  
  Q.  Did you hit driver on 5?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  I hit in the bunker, it's right in between driver and 3-wood.  I hit driver hard most of the time, just going to try to hit 3-wood and land it short of the bunker.   
  
  Q.  And 7?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  I hit it over yesterday and I hit it on today.   
  
  Q.  Is it hard for to you take driver out of your hand as much as this course forces you to?  Is that something you've learned since you've been out here a little longer?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  No.  I'm just hitting my 3-wood good and want to get something in the fairways.  It's not hard to take it out.  I think it's frustrating not being able to hit driver on par 5s like No. 5 or something like that.  That's just how the course is.  Everybody has got to play the same golf course.   
  
  Q.  Did you have a tough time last year here?   
 J.B. HOLMES:  I don't even remember.  Honestly I'm not a real big fan of the golf course.  It doesn't set up great for me.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT