THE BARCLAYS
August 25, 2016
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-under today, looks like the best round of the afternoon.  Talk about what was going right for you today.  
J.B. HOLMES: I've been hitting it pretty good lately.  I just haven't been putting well.  Really worked hard this week and really grinded on the putting green, fixed some stuff.  Made a few putts today, and then it was kind of the difference compared to what it has been lately.   
It was really good.  Had to stay calm today and tried to let go of just the results and let God take care of what was going to happen and not worry about what was going to happen and just focus on that.  That's basically what I did today and it worked out good for me.   
 Q.  You spent two hours the other day, didn't you?  
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I was about two hours the other day on the putting green.  I kind of figured something out and was definitely doing something wrong, which was a relief, because I wasn't making any putts.  We found out what it was and we just really tried to grind it in.  I stayed out there for two hours and hit putts.  Ended up being good for me.   
 Q.  You and Patrick and Rickie all finished high at the top of the board; will you keep track of where guys are?  
J.B. HOLMES: Doesn't do me any good to watch what they are doing.  I've just got to go out there and do the best I can.  I'm trying to win.  I'm trying to do the best I can.  If I watch what they are doing or look at everything else, you just add pressure on yourself that there's no need.   
I'm doing the best I can, and hopefully at the end of the week, that will be good enough.   
 Q.  Your head can hurt if you start doing all the mathematical --  
J.B. HOLMES: That's for you guys to figure out.   
 Q.  Have you talked to Davis at all lately?  
J.B. HOLMES: No, I haven't got to talk to Davis.  Hopefully I play well enough to get on the team.  But I think that's a good golf course for long hitters up there.  I've played great this year, so hopefully I can get in inside the number, and if not, hopefully I'll be a pick.   
 Q.  When did you start thinking about it?  
J.B. HOLMES: I mean, it's always in your head.  Definitely after the British, it was more in my head after that I guess.  You're wanting to make that all year.  At the beginning of the year, that was definitely one of my main goals, to get on The Ryder Cup Team hopefully.  I've played well this year, so hopefully I'll be able to accomplish that goal.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT