THE MEMORIAL TOURNAMENT PRESENTED BY NATIONWIDE
June 5, 2016
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. J.B., you came in at 13 under.  Just give us another view of your day and the position you're in now, just anticipating a couple more guys to finish.
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, it was a good day for me.  Played well.  I'd like to have a couple shots back, but overall, it was a good day for me.  I was over par early.  Got on a run at the end of the front nine and made four in a row, so kind of got me going.
It was just windy out there.  It wasn't as easy -- wasn't as scorable quite as it was before, but happy with the way I played.
Q. Was it any different after the suspension going out there again?
J.B. HOLMES: It started off there wasn't quite as much wind, but it looks like it's picked back up now.  Right when they blew it, it was blowing really hard.  It's not blowing quite that hard now.
Q. What was working for you today, despite the wind?
J.B. HOLMES: I was putting well.  I made a lot of good putts.  Hit it -- when I hit it in there close, I made the putt.  So I took advantage of when I had those opportunities and didn't make too many mistakes.
I had a three-putt on 11 was a mistake, and then I missed a four or five-footer on the 4 or 5, par 5 -- I think it's 5.  Other than that, I played pretty well.
Q. What's it like to post to 13 under, knowing that you still need a couple of guys to maybe come back to you?
J.B. HOLMES: I kind of, now that the tournament's over, I doubt it will come back playing downwind the last few holes.  Stranger things have happened.  I'm not too worried about it much.  I played good this week, played well.  So I'll just chalk it up to that, and we'll see.
You don't want to wish anybody bad luck.  So I don't want -- but if it comes to that, we'll go out there and play some more.
Q. I didn't see your hole on 17, what happened there?
J.B. HOLMES: I just hit a bad drive off to the right.  I hit my shot kind of like I wanted to.  I hit it in the short bunkers.  It just got over, and it managed to go between the two bunkers, and it was just a really bad lie.  It jumped out, and I hit it to like ten feet and missed it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT