THE 148TH OPEN
July 20, 2019
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Kind of sum up the day, wat it was like out there.  
J.B. HOLMES: It was awesome to see -- be able to play like that in front of this crowd.  That was really a cool experience to be a part of.  Happy for him, he played awesome.  So it was his day.  When he had a couple of oopsies he had a good break.  He hit great shots after that.  It was good.   
And as far as me, I played -- I hit the ball really well.  Just didn't make any putts.  I hit it in a good spot.  And had that one three-putt where I missed -- kind of misjudged the speed there.  And one or two bad swings.  But other than that I hit the ball really well.   
And it wasn't my day.  It feels like that.  It wasn't like it was terrible.  But you're playing with a guy making everything, it feels like you shot a million.  But I played well.   
 Q.  Do you find it tough at all to be the other guy in this kind of atmosphere knowing that he's got that kind of support?  
J.B. HOLMES: No, I enjoyed playing with him.  It wasn't me against him today.  We were just out there playing.  Like I said, I don't know how many times in the history you get the opportunity to witness that or be around that, to have somebody from the home country and put a round up like that in an Open.  It's pretty special.  Something I'll never forget.   
 Q.  Were there any times out there you might have taken a step back and just enjoyed the scene a little bit?  
J.B. HOLMES: You have to.  You have to do that every day while you're playing in situations last group in a major.  Not everybody gets to do that.  You have to enjoy it while you can.  And like I said, I played pretty good.  It just doesn't feel quite as good as he did.  But I could have shot a pretty good score if I made some putts, I just didn't make any putts.   
 Q.  Looking ahead tomorrow you can just let it fly?  
J.B. HOLMES: I'm going to do the same thing.  I'm going to play the same way I've been playing.  It's definitely not over yet.  If he plays like that again it's over.  But a lot can happen.  You never know with the weather, it can be blowing.  I don't know.  There's a lot of golf left to go.  But I put myself in a good position and go out there tomorrow and keep trucking.   
 Q.  Having a big lead like that puts tremendous pressure for him to seal the deal?  
J.B. HOLMES: I mean it's tough no matter whether you have a one shot lead or five shot lead.  It's tough to finish off a Major.  It's a tough test.  So we'll see.  See what he does tomorrow and like I said I can go out and hopefully put up the number and give him something to look at.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT