BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
September 19, 2015
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk about your round a little bit.
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I played solid today and made the putts I needed to and got them to drop, so just a good solid round of golf.  Did everything okay.  I don't feel like I did anything great.
Q. Talk about the conditions out there after all the rain last night.
J.B. HOLMES: It was tougher today with the wind in a different direction than we've been playing.  We played a few more holes into the wind, and the ball wasn't rolling, and sometimes you couldn't even get out of casual water so you had to hit out of the water a little bit.  It was definitely more difficult than it has been the last couple days for sure.
Q. What's the mindset when Jason has such a lead the way he does going into the final round?
J.B. HOLMES: I mean, you can't control -- it's his to lose.  He's up there so much, he's going to have to -- somebody is going to have to play really well and he's going to have to mess up.  If he continues to play well or probably even just shoots even, he's probably going to win.  We've just got to go out there and try to make some birdies, but don't force it because it's hard to go out and shoot 10-under, especially if you're trying to push it.  It's just kind of one of those things that tends to happen.  It'll take somebody up at the top putting in a round like he did probably to give it a run.
Q. I assume you want to gain some momentum going into the TOUR Championship next week, too?
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, any time you just want to get some good rounds in and play well, and it's nice to finish strong.  However it ends up is how it ends up.  It's definitely a confidence builder.  I've played well so far this week, so I'm definitely feeling confident going towards the TOUR Championship, so that's a good place to be.
Q. Do you like that course?
J.B. HOLMES: I haven't played it in a long time, but from I remember, I thought it was pretty good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT