PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 13, 2015
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Talk about your opening round and the conditions today.  
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I had a great start to the tournament, finished at 4-under, made a lot of birdies.  Starting out even, it was windy a little bit this morning, but definitely picked up as the day went on.  It's whipping pretty good right now.  There's some birdies out there but you can definitely make some bogeys really quick too.   
 Q.  How much of an advantage was it to go off in the morning?  
J.B. HOLMES: We don't know yet.  The other group hasn't gone out and played yet.  The wind could die down and they could get the better end of the draw yet.  You never know.  It was windy this morning, it wasn't like it wasn't blowing at all.  And it was definitely blowing now, too, it's picked up, especially the last hour and a half, it feels like, but we'll see.  Tomorrow they get to start in the morning, so but the course was playing well and the greens were good and it was a good start for me.   
 Q.  How are the greens?  
J.B. HOLMES: They're good, they're in good shape and they got a little dryer at the end, especially that 16, 17 and 18, they were rolling out a little bit more.  So, could get a little bit firmer this afternoon.   
 Q.  Long hitters that we talked to earlier in the week said that you still have to drive it straight.  Was that the case today?  
J.B. HOLMES: I hit it great.  I really just hit one bad tee shot and I hit it on 18.  So other than that, I think I missed one fairway with the driver and I missed by a foot.  So I hit it really well off the tee and hit my irons well and it was just a solid round of golf that could have been better, but definitely happy with that start.   
 Q.  Anything different about the course today than practice rounds in terms of setup?  
J.B. HOLMES: Just slowly getting firmer.  It was really wet on Monday and Tuesday, and slowly with the waned, it's drying out a little bit.  They haven't had any rain.   
 Q.  If we have some rain tomorrow, what role do you think that will play?  
J.B. HOLMES: I mean it depends on how much it rains and how hard it rains and if there's lightning, even if we play.  If you got a lot of rain it will soften up the golf course, it's hard to tell.  Depends on what kind of rain it is.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT