U.S. OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2015
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  That eagle helped.  J.B. HOLMES: That definitely helped me a lot to get the eagle.  Anytime you can get a birdie out here or an eagle anywhere, it definitely helps.  Tough to make some birdies today for sure.   Q.  Talk about the par save.  J.B. HOLMES: I hit two good shots going into 18.  And unfortunately, that's probably the worse lie I've seen this week.  If it wouldn't have been there, I felt like I would have had a chance to at least have an attempt at birdie.  I was unlucky there. I was able to get up and down and make a good putt.  That was nice going into Sunday.   Q.  It was an up-and-down round, but you didn't do yourself a whole lot of damage, you're right there in Sunday at the U.S. Open.  J.B. HOLMES: I don't know too many people who didn't have an up-and-down round today. I felt like it was a pretty solid round for me.  I had a few chances.  Missed a couple of short ones, but it was tough to make putts out there today, for sure.  They got really firm and really fast. And a couple of pins, one on 11 I hit two good shots in there and have a putt that's really difficult to even two-putt.  So even when you hit good shots out here sometimes you're not in the best spot. It was a good day for me.  I had fun the whole time.  I enjoyed the challenge.   Q.  Game plan for Sunday?  J.B. HOLMES: Same thing.  Just go out there and have a good time and hopefully I get a few more putts to go in than I had today. After it leaves the club, there's not a whole lot I can control.  All I can do is control my routines, enjoy being out there, enjoy the moment.  And not too many people get to play in the U.S. Open, much less be in contention. I'm going to enjoy the opportunity I have, and have fun tomorrow and hopefully it goes my way.   Q.  What do you think about Jason Day's remarkable round, 68, battling vertigo, how tough is it to do that with health issues?  J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, it's really difficult to have the vertigo.  I had those type of symptoms when I had my Chiari malformation.  It was very difficult sometimes to even play, difficult to play.  It's very impressive that he's been able to play the quality golf he has.   Q.  How tough is it to focus?  J.B. HOLMES: I mean it's tough anytime, if you're sick or feeling good.  Actually, it might be easier when you're feeling bad because you're thinking one shot at a time.  You've seen a lot of great performances from great athletes that have felt bad or been sick. In one way it kind of makes it easier because you're trying to get to the next shot and you're staying very present.  Other ways it wears on your body and stuff like that. Kudos to him, that's great playing.  And whether he's feeling good or great, it's great playing.   Q.  Several of the longest hitters in the game are in the top five.  Did you think your length would get you in the spot like this to win the tournament?  J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I thought there would be an advantage to hitting longer.  It's definitely playing long here.  But you've got to hit it in the fairway, too, and you've got to make some putts.  So it's not just about that. I hit my driver really well this week.  It's definitely a big advantage any week when I can do that, but especially this week with this many long par-4s.   Q.  You probably eagled your share of 370-something par-4s with your length.  Is that the most special eagle you ever had on a par-4?  J.B. HOLMES: It's pretty special, to be in a U.S. Open on Saturday and in contention and have that happen.  That's pretty awesome.  So I'll definitely log that in the memory bank as a great moment in my career.  A lot of fun.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT