WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 8, 2015
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Looked like you had a hard time getting something going today?  
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, it was a great week for me.   It was a great day.   God is good all the time.   Just didn't make any putts.   I hit a lot of great putts.   A ton of putts I thought I made that were in the center of the Cup that at the last second broke out.   I made a couple bad swings early.   It was tough out there.   Just wasn't my day.  
   
 Q.   How frustrating is it when you hit that many good putts?  
J.B. HOLMES:   It's golf.   Some weeks they go in and some weeks they don't.   The last.  
   
 Q.   How do you keep battling when you don't feel like you've got it?   
J.B. HOLMES:   I'm not going to quit.   I played great all week.   You know, I just didn't make any putts today.   I didn't hit it as well as I had been but I hit a lot of great putts on the back nine.   Just burnt the edges all day.   Just normally‑‑ usually two or three of those go in.   It was tough starting out.   Conditions were difficult.   
Made a couple bad swings and a couple swings I thought were okay and ended up in not great spots.   Just wasn't my day and Dustin played great.   It was going to take one of those type of deals to, there was a couple guys that were going to have to play great and I was going to have to have an off‑day.   Unfortunately for me, that's what happened.   
   
 Q.   What options did you have on 17?   
J.B. HOLMES:   I thought I hit it middle of the fairway.   I hit the exact same shot every day‑‑ wedge, so I was a little surprised when I got there.   It wasn't a super‑easy shot but it could have been a lot worse.   I felt like I had a chance to maybe hit a really good shot.   I hit a good shot but was hoping to maybe try to get it a little closer.   Again, I thought that putt was in the middle of the hole.   I don't know how it missed.   
   
 Q.   Did you feel you really needed to get off to a good start, first couple of holes?   
J.B. HOLMES:   Not necessarily.   I mean, the first three holes, the pin on 1 is tough.   It's a tough green.   I didn't hit a great approach shot but I thought I made that putt.   It was right in the center of the Cup and almost went backwards.   
Then 2, hit an okay drive, just barely went in the bunker, had an awkward lie and hit a pretty good drive or second shot and just went a little long.   Then the next hole, 3, I hit a great drive.   Was playing left of the hole, I didn't want to go at the flag.   Hit a pretty good 6‑iron, thought the wind would take it.   Very difficult 2‑putt, and I hit a pretty good putt speed‑wise, it just didn't break as much as I thought and was left with a 4‑ or 5‑footer that was two cups outside.   I didn't hit a great putt there.   Next.  
Hole I hit a good shot, thought it would come off that hill and actually went left.   That putt was in the center of the Cup and left it short.   Made a couple bad swings in the driver.   Hit it left, got lucky.   Hit a 7‑iron I thought was pretty good.   Just didn't turn.   It was pin‑high.   I was surprised to see it go long and then I didn't hit a very good bunker shot.   Another good putt.   So it was just, next hole, hit it level.   I didn't hit a shot left all week so it was just, kind of popped up on me, fixed it, hit my driver pretty good the rest of the day.   Just one of those days.   Like I said, I hit pretty much every putt on the back side right where I wanted to.   And just didn't go in.   
   
 Q.   What's it like, you start with a five‑shot lead and probably 45 minutes into the round, it's like a normal Sunday with three guys.   Anything change‑‑  
J.B. HOLMES:   Well, it always ends up that way.   You just kind of expect it.   Very rarely does somebody have that big lead and hold it through the whole day.   The guys are good out here.   Bubba started, he was 4‑under through seven, the way the wind was blowing, that was ridiculous.   
Then, you know, there's really two guys that were close.   Those two guys have a day where they don't play well‑‑ it was just really‑‑ those two guys played great today and Bubba started out great.   I don't know how he finished but Dustin played good and holed a lot of putts.   He hit on 15, I hit my shot right behind his and I hit my putt just absolutely right where I wanted to, perfect speed and thought I had it good right there at the end and saw that it didn't so he got a perfect read and he knocked it right in the middle.   It was just one of those days for me.   Unfortunately it was not the ending I wanted to a great week but if was a great week for me.   So I had a lot of fun, had an unbelievable round the first round and played pretty solid the rest of the way.   Just unfortunately wasn't my day today.   
   
 Q.   Apart from having a lot of fun, what does your performance tee‑to‑green on a course like this tell you about your chances in the majors this year?   
J.B. HOLMES:   I've not been healthy for so long, really I've just been healthy for a year now and this is coming up on the second year I'm healthy.   It's nice to get back into competing and getting those opportunities.   I had an opportunity earlier this year, fortunately didn't win in the playoff and I had an opportunity today.   
I've been in the lead‑‑ I was in the lead at Pebble.   At some point in the last three or four tournaments I've played, I've been in the lead I think in almost all of them.   I'm right there, so you've just got to keep giving yourself opportunities.   It's hard to win out here.   You've got to have four rounds of some putts going in and some things going your way.   Used all mine up on Thursday.  
   
 Q.   Is Doral as good as you're going to get to the majors?  
J.B. HOLMES:   It's a very difficult golf course.   I would not have thought‑‑ I would have thought 9‑under would be the winning score but I would not have thought somebody would have shot 9‑under on this golf course.   I thought four or six would have been closer to where it was last year.   They got a bit of rain.   It's a super difficult golf course.   It's closer to the U.S. Open.   The greens are firm and everything.   PGA and the Masters always plays a little bit different and British.   This is kind of a mixture.   I guess this is like a really windy U.S. Open would be closer.   It was a difficult golf course.   It's super hard and some of the best players in the world.  
   
 Q.   Do you find yourself protecting the lead?   
J.B. HOLMES:   I mean, I had the same attitude I started the week with.   I knew if I shot 72, that would probably be good enough.   That's kind of what I was going to, to be honest with you, I thought probably 2‑ or 3‑over would have been enough.   But like I said, just had a couple guys that needed to play well, and Dustin is it.   He stepped up and played great.   
Obviously I was still trying to shoot under par.   I wasn't trying to shoot 2‑ or 3‑over.   But like I said, you know, you give me this much and I shoot 71.   With that much distance, I don't think I could have made four putts.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT