WGC CADILLAC CHAMPIONSHIP
March 6, 2015
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  CHRIS REIMER:   J.B., 36 holes into the World Golf Championships ‑ Cadillac Championship and you've got a two‑stroke lead.   You have to appreciate where you are I would imagine.  
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, I'm in a great spot.   So, you know, hitting the ball great.   Looking forward to the weekend.   It's been a lot of fun so far.   Been having fun.   It's a tough golf course.   It's a fun challenge, so hopefully the course won't get too much firmer and we'll have fun on the weekend.   
CHRIS REIMER:   Probably don't feel like you've played that much worse than yesterday; is that the fine line?   
J.B. HOLMES:   Describes this golf course.   I really didn't play that‑‑ I hit a lot of great shots today.   I didn't make as many putts.   I didn't putt as well, but you know, I missed maybe two or three swings yesterday and they ended up being okay and missed two or three swings today and they went in the water.   
So it's just kind of one of those things.   Overall, played great.   Was right there.   So still in the lead, so couldn't have been that bad.   
   
 Q.   Just a day that going in, water balls are going to be part of the tournament, they don't really throw you off too much when you get a couple like you did today?  
J.B. HOLMES:   Well, you don't expect them to, but I hit two perfect shots on 1 and it went in the water.   So I guess if you hit two perfect shots and it's able to go in the water, I guess you should expect a few.   
So it's pretty bad that you can hit two perfect shots and the ball can go in the water because of just a ridiculous green design that's really just terrible.   The shape of the green is fine, but it's not that wide anyways.   And why you would put a giant hump in the middle of it to make a ball go in the water is ‑‑ it's stupid.   Golf course is hard enough.   You don't have to do that.   
   
 Q.   You did say you thought the old course was too easy.   But any way‑‑  
J.B. HOLMES:   Well, there's a difference between easy and hitting two perfect shots and the ball going in the water.   That's a joke.   I hit one, I hit a 350‑yard drive and hit a 6‑iron straight up in the air, and it landed three feet off the left edge of the green and five feet on it and it goes in the water on the right side of the green.   I mean, that's not hard.   That's stupid.   That's unfair.   
   
 Q.   Yesterday you said if you had shot even par today, that would be pretty good.   
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, I mean, I'm a two‑shot lead.   Not too bad.   If you had told me that at the beginning of week, I would have a two‑shot lead after two rounds, I would have said, all right, sounds good.  
Like I said I've been playing great.   Played great today.   Just had a few loose swings, and today, happened to not go in the right spot.   
   
 Q.   We often talk about players trying to bounce back after poor rounds.   How difficult is it to come back out here after shooting a really low score, and how does your mind‑set change?  
J.B. HOLMES:   No mind‑set change.   Just the same thing, just go out and do my routines and hit my shots and see what happens at the end.   So I mean, that's all I can control.   I had a lot of fun today and that was what I was focusing on.   All I can control is that and I can't control if the ball bounces in the water.   
So I did the stuff that I can control, and you know, it was a good day.   I hit a lot of great shots, and you know, just at the end, the score, like I said, not much difference between this round and yesterday in my opinion.   So easily could have been‑‑ easily could have shot 6‑under today.   So just shows how difficult this course is and how you can get a couple bad breaks and make some numbers.  
   
 Q.   Can you describe the 12th hole after your driver went in the water and how you saved par on that one?  
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, you know, that was one of my bad swings for the day.   Like I said, I didn't have too many.   Just got into the water there.   I was able to get a pretty good drop and hit a 5‑wood.   I was trying to get it past the pin so I could chip down to that but hit it in that bunker.   
Luckily it kind of got on the upslope so I could hit a little bit softer and hit a great bunker shot to about eight feet and made a good putt.   
   
 Q.   Trying to figure out, you seem happy with the round, and frustrated with the last hole.   I'm trying to figure out exactly how to categorize your mood right now.   
J.B. HOLMES:   I'm not frustrated with the last hole.   It's a tough hole.   There's a bunch of great players who made a double on that one today.   It's just part of it.   I was happy‑‑ the stuff I could control today:   I had a lot of fun out there with my buddy and played and made some good swings.   
You know, the score is just, you know, just something‑‑ you can't describe your round if you put everything on the score, then golf's not going to be much fun, because it's difficult.  
I was just trying to go out there and have a good time and whatever the score is, it is.   
CHRIS REIMER:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT