AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 12, 2015
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Like to welcome J.B. Holmes to the interview room.   An 8‑under 64 in round one of the AT&T Pebble Beach National Pro‑Am.   You're off to quite the start this morning with your eagle birdie start and obviously had many more birdies after that to get to the 64.   So a few comments on the round today.   
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, it was ‑‑ the weather was awesome, so it was a lot of fun to be able to play this golf course with not a lot of wind and nice temperature.   So I was looking forward to the day.   Started out great.   
Made a wedge on the first hole and hit one in there close again and made a birdie on the next hole.   So it was a great start.   It was just a good day all around.   
I hit the ball well and hit my wedges really well.   Hit them in there close and didn't have to make too many long putts.   So it was a lot of fun.  
THE MODERATOR:   What did you have?   123 on 10?   
J.B. HOLMES:   I don't remember.   I think it was maybe 117, something like that.   That was like the second shot of the day.   That was a long time ago.   
THE MODERATOR:   Well it counted.   All right.   So we'll start with questions.   
   
 Q.   You played a great tournament last week.   One shot too many, end up in the playoff.   After the playoff, do you think about it a long time?   What do you do?   You drive, go to the airport, I mean can you just follow into you get here and obviously you're playing well and so you know you're playing well.   
J.B. HOLMES:   Obviously you think about it a little bit.   You want to get the win.   So I was right there and had a chance, but your brain always wants to go to results and that, where, but really I played great last week, mental game was great, I did my routines well and all the stuff that I could control I did really well.   Unfortunately, the result side it just didn't quite work out.   But it was still a great week for me, so, yeah, you always, your brain's always wanting to go there and think about it, but I just got to keep reminding myself it was a great week for me, and I did everything I could do and just carry that on to this week and maybe things will go a little bit different this week.   
   
 Q.   Does it help coming to a place that you like and that you've had success at?  
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, you always enjoy it.   There's several tournaments in the year that you feel comfortable at or more comfortable than other places.   It's always a treat to be able to play Pebble Beach anyway, so these golf courses out here are great.   I enjoy it.   So, yeah, it's nice to be able to come to places that you really enjoy being at.   
   
 Q.   Was there any one thing you would take back besides that last shot at the par‑3 on the from last week?   Was there any one thing?  
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, I missed a couple short putts early in the week.   I had one come back at me.   I would rather those would have gone in.   You can think about that stuff, but it's all, everything happens for a reason and you learn from it and you can either hang your head and feel sorry yourself or you can learn from what happened and use it the next time you get in that situation.   
   
 Q.   Over the years this tournament's famous for bad weather and you get a day like this.   When you're playing, you're thinking at all, wow, this is fantastic and for all the years that we walked through the rain and the mud making up for it?  
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, any time you get great weather and be able to play a beautiful place like that all day you're thinking, would you, this is perfect and even if you don't hit a good shot it's still like the weather and this view is pretty amazing.   It's awesome to be able to play a place like this and have the weather be really good.   
So, it was a lot of fun and you come out here expecting the worst and hoping for the best.   So the weather was great today.   
   
 Q.   For those of us who don't follow you week in and week out, could I ask how is your health?  
J.B. HOLMES:   It's good.   It's good.   So, I'm healthy, it's been almost a full year I haven't been injured.   So that's a record for me, I guess.   
So, yeah, it's been a struggle over the last few years, just getting healthy.   Had a few freak things happen and an accident here, so it's nice to be able to go out there and not have to worry about that.   This game's hard enough, so playing injured is not much fun.   So it's been great.   It's nice to be healthy and get out there and hit some shots and not worry about being limited because of an injury or something.  
   
 Q.   Did your win last season in some ways confirm that to you that you were back?  
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, I worked really hard to get back to that point and it was just a nice kind of cherry on the top to be able to get back in the winner's circle and feel like you kind of, you kind of not completed a come back, because you still want to play well and that, but I felt like that it was definitely a step in the right direction for sure.   
   
 Q.   Did you get tired at all and are you tired of answering questions about the brain operation?   Every where you go, that's the first question you get when they haven't seen you for awhile.   
J.B. HOLMES:   You know, it's not ‑‑ it hasn't been as bad.   Every now and then.   But that's part of my history, I'm going to get it, so if it can maybe help somebody that's not aware of the disease or it's not really a disease, aware of the issue, symptoms or something, maybe they can get it checked out maybe it can help somebody in their life.   So, it doesn't really bother me, like I said, it's part of my history and what's happened to me, so I got to answer that question.   
THE MODERATOR:   J.B., we appreciate your time.   Best of luck.   
J.B. HOLMES:   Thank you.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT