FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 8, 2015
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We're joined by J.B. Holmes you had the 54 hole lead, lost in the second playoff hole to Jason Day.  Talk about the day and the playoff and we'll open it up for questions.   J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, overall it was a good day.  Didn't start out as good as I wanted to, but the fog kind of blew in and changed the speed of the greens. They seemed a little bit slower, so that messed with me a little bit. But got on a run on the back and 9 and 10 and made some birdies and had a good chance and had some chances today and just didn't pan out for me.   THE MODERATOR: Questions?   Q.  Run through how you played 18 in regulation and the playoff and what your thought went into how you played all the shots.  J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I played them all correctly for me.  My wedge shot on regulation just didn't really come back.  I thought that ball would come back a little bit.   Q.  Did you this about going for it at all?  J.B. HOLMES: I thought about it, but it was on a, if it would have been five yards shorter or three or four yards longer, it was really on a down slope to the hole and it was just a lie that my tendency is to hit it a little bit further and hit a draw and long and left is dead.  If you hit something over the green there, it's not really an easy up-and-down.  It's not really the best access to the pin. The best lay up is to lay up and hit a wedge.  I had the same thing again, I would lay up.  I had the wind and that and you can't ask for much more than that.   Q.  Did you pull the wedge shot a little bit?  J.B. HOLMES: Just a little bit.  But if it would have stuck with some spin it would have come down there.  I thought I made the putt, I made a really good putt.  But that's how it goes sometimes.   Q.  (No Microphone.)  J.B. HOLMES: The wind blew off the off the left, so it was tough for me and Harris to hit a cut there to hit it in that fairway with the draw there.  I thought when I hit it I started where I wanted to but the wind took it and it ended up in the bunker and laid up and then I hit a good wedge shot right at it and a little bit long and that time it did take the spin.  Came back down and I had about a 3-footer. So I -- and then on the par-3, just with that pin, that's just a really, from that tee box, it's really just a bad hole is what it is.  I hate to see them put it back there for that.  I tried to hit a good shot, just didn't hit a great shot.  That tee box, you know, they put it there for the U.S. Open, green wasn't designed to do that, so not a big fan. But I hit my 6-iron I drew it too much and it went long, I didn't think I could get it long, went long, got my drop, and felt pretty good over the wedge shot and it just kind of jumped on me.  Some grass got in between the ball and club and it just jumped a little bit.  The rough was thick this week.  It happened from time to time.  It happened there.  Then on the putt, I just misread it.  Kind of went back, went by it and it was breaking, it went to the left and then I went down and to the left too, so it was a tough putt to read and Jason hit a great shot in there and had a chance to make a birdie and he got it done.   Q.  Is it better to get into a playoff and lose than not make the playoff at all?  J.B. HOLMES: Well, yeah.  You always want a chance to win.  So, I had my opportunities today and I feel like most of the time I'm going to come through there and today it just didn't happen for me.  Overall, it was a great week for me.  I felt really comfortable on golf course, felt comfortable throughout this day and it was a lot of fun.  I had a good time.  So, unfortunately, just didn't end the way exactly how I wanted it to, but it was a really good week for me.   Q.  Were you at all surprised about the scoring conditions today?  Obviously you were in the middle of it you knew how tough it played but the entire field had a rough day.  Were you expecting that before you guys went out?  J.B. HOLMES: Well, this golf course is hard.  So we had really perfect days and the scores weren't that low.  So, warming up on the range it was perfect.  It wasn't that windy and it was nice and then when we teed off it got cold and fog blew in and it was blowing.  It was tough.  Those first few holes were really tough. So, yeah, it got a little bit better towards the end, I was able to score a little bit there at the end but, yeah, I knew the scores probably wouldn't be that great today.  So, I kind of figured if it got to 10, 10 would win.  So it would have.   Q.  You won in Charlotte, you were in a playoff here, but in between no top-10s, how do you explain that?  J.B. HOLMES: I didn't get any top-10s, I didn't play well enough.   Q.  That's just golf?  J.B. HOLMES: It's just golf.  It happens sometimes.  So, that was a year for me it was I played really well, I didn't really have my full status, I was coming off of a injury and then when I won, my schedule completely changed, I got into some tournaments I wasn't planning to and I played more golf than I normally do.  To be honest with you, I was a little bit tired at the end of the year, but I just didn't play well enough to get it up there.   Q.  You played well here, obviously, but you come from the desert where the scoring is high scores, you come here and it just seems like are you in favor of this like U.S. Open type conditions this early in the year?  J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I enjoy difficult fair and difficult tests and I thought this was a very fair test.  But it was also very difficult.  I always enjoy that.  I would rather have it be firm and long rough than have it be soft and so that's, I'm just I enjoy that type of golf.  It was very difficult out there today, all week.  The course was in great shape.  Greens were firm and it was fun.  It was a lot of fun.   THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT