FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 7, 2015
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: We would like to welcome J.B. Holmes to the interview room.  J.B., you're 4-under on the day, 9-under on the tournament.  You made seven birdies today.  If you could open up, talk about your round a little bit and then we'll open it up for questions.   J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I hit it really well all day and putted well.  So it was nice to get out there on this beautiful golf course and make some putts. So started out pretty good and was able to chip one in on 4.  So kind of got me going there. And I made a birdie on 7 and 8.  So just a good start. On the back nine made a couple putts on 13 and 14, I think it was, to get me to 5. So all around it was a great round for me and I hit the ball well and putted well.  So it was a lot of fun.   THE MODERATOR: All right.  Questions?   Q.  You've won three times on TOUR, you've been on one Ryder Cup team.  Horschel the other day said, after Tiger left, the whole crowd got up and left.  I'm just wondering, a guy whose won on TOUR, whose been around and all you've gone through, does this bother you, either the fans or the media spending so much time paying attention to, say, Woods and Phil, who are not here any longer?  J.B. HOLMES: Well, I mean, they earned it to have that attention at the beginning.  Phil and Tiger's really helped grow the sport, so they deserve that. As a player do I feel like the media talks about it a little too much?  Yeah.  If he's not playing good, I mean everybody goes through lulls and everybody doesn't play good all the time, we just don't have a camera around all the time. So when a guy is down and not playing too good and for everybody to really to just critique everything, it kind of gets in the way, because there's some people that are playing well. I would like to see the TV and the media maybe pay a little more attention to people that are playing well. So, Phil and Tiger, they will play well again.  It's just part of golf.  You make 80 percent of your money in 20 percent of your tournaments.  Nobody plays well all the time.   Q.  It seems like putting is at a premium on this course.  A lot of the guys, including yourself, have putted really well.  What is it about the course that makes putting so important?  J.B. HOLMES: Well, that's every golf course.  Every week whoever wins is usually top-5 in the putting.  So that's the game out here. But also this golf course is a big ball striking course, so you got to hit it in the fairway, you got to hit some good shots and give your self a chance for some birdies. But putting-wise, they're fast and you got to be on the right spots.  If you get above the hole on some greens it's tough to get the speed and you have a lot of 10-footers for par out here. So, but every week whoever makes the most putts usually wins.   Q.  It seems like there's a premium on hitting off the tee and staying in the fairway here.  What's that rough like out there?  J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, it's really kind of the main premium right now I feel like.  The rough's probably, it probably plays worse than it did at the U.S. Open when they had it here in 2008.  The Kikuyu rough was nasty, but you could also get it where it would set up on a tee.  It would either drop down to the bottom and you couldn't hit anything or it was up on the tee.  So it was kind of 50/50. Where, this week, if you hit it in there, you just have a bad lie.  So you're not going to be able to hit it very far.  Most of the ones I hit in the rough have been bad lies.  I'll get a decent one every now and then, but I wouldn't say I really got a good lie in the rough this week yet.   THE MODERATOR: All right.  Thank you, J.B.   J.B. HOLMES: Thanks.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT