FARMERS INSURANCE OPEN
February 7, 2015
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  You birdied the last but probably wasn't the finish you wanted over the last four or five holes.  J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I played great all day and hit the ball well and gave myself a chance to make some birdies and I made them.  So, I birdied 18 to finish, that's kind of all I'm thinking about.  It's a tough golf course, tough finishing holes, bogeys are going to happen.  Yeah, I made a few coming in.  So, overall it was a great day, I hit it great, felt comfortable over the ball all day and just had a lot of fun.   Q.  Expectations tomorrow?  J.B. HOLMES: I just want to go out and have a good time and just relax and play.  So whatever happens, happens.  Just lucky to be able to be in a position to have a chance to win and hopefully it will go my way tomorrow, but the main thing, if I can just go one shot at a time and just have a good time out there, then the rest will take care of itself.   Q.  Bill Haas mentioned your length, how important is it for you to score on the par-5s on the South Course here?  J.B. HOLMES: Every week you kind of feel like it's important to try to get some birdies on the par-5s.  Just because you, with some distance, I got a chance to get there in two.  But if you don't hit it in the fairway it doesn't matter how far you hit it.  The rough's really high right now and you can't move it very far.  So you got to hit it in the fairway and give your self a chance.  Even the par-5s I guess the good thing about that is if you do miss the fairway you can still get it up there and have a wedge in your hand and have a chance to make a birdie.  So every week the guys make, everybody out here makes more birdies on the par-5s, so you always like to feel like you have a better chance on those for sure.   Q.  Is this a fair test for this course?  J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I think it's very fair.  It's very difficult, but it's fair.  I don't feel like there's any holes out there that are bad or anything.  There's a couple pin placements that maybe makes the hole maybe not quite as good.  But overall I think it's a very fair test the way they got it right now.  So it's good.   Q.  Can you explain what happened on 17.  J.B. HOLMES: Just a bad shot.  I've been hitting the driver really good all day and I've been hitting a little cut and that one didn't cut.  So, I was fortunate to for it to drop where it did, or cross where it did and was able to be far enough back I could get up over the tree and get it in that front bunker and hit a good bunker shot and then on to the next.  So, that's that.   Q.  Can you talk about after the times that you won out here on the TOUR, you actually run into a lull.  Can you talk about how hard it was to come back from that, obviously with the physical injuries you had and then is this one of the places where you feel like you've had one of your best opportunities to win since then?  J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I'm, I got a chance tomorrow to have a chance to win, so I feel good out here.  The golf course is playing kind of how I like it now.  It's playing difficult. Injury-wise, I've been healthy for, I was healthy all last year and so that's a big part and that's kind of what's, I feel like a lot of times what's held me back a little built, just had some injuries.  But hopefully this year I'm going to play better than I did last year and contend and hopefully get a couple more wins.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT