TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2018
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, hit a poor tee shot, hit a great punch out and was able to hit a wedge in there close, and kind of saved the birdie on that hole.  Then I hit a good tee shot, and I had a really good number for a wedge, and hit it right at the flag.  Luckily it went in, so that was nice.
Then on 14 I hit a great tee shot.  I actually thought I had a chance to get up on the green, and then a good chip, and a good putt.  So it was a tough win on that hole today, for sure.
Q. Yeah, showed off the short game there at 15 because that green can be really difficult.  11-under par, how do you feel about it headed into Sunday?
J.B. HOLMES: I feel great.  I've played well this week and I've played solid, and I haven't made too many mistakes, so hopefully I can go out there tomorrow and go low again.
Q. 11-under for the tournament.  Let's talk about that stellar eagle hole out that you had on 14.  Take us through that shot?
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I hit it on the right side of the fairway, wanted to.  There is that tree just short of the green that you have to worry about.  Had a good number for a wedge, and I was trying to hit a little draw in there.  I pulled it just a little, but it was right at the flag.  If it doesn't hit the tree, it's going to be pretty good.  You know, bounced up there and hopped in the hole, so it was nice.
Q. I'd say that was pretty good.  That highlighted a stellar back nine, really, where you had -- you were 5-under back there, so kind of explain what made a difference for you once you made the turn?
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, just I was hitting greens but really wasn't getting anything close to the hole on the front.  I made a birdie on 11, that kind of got me going.  The hole out obviously helped.  So I birdied the easier holes when you need to birdie the par-5 and the drivable 14.  Like I said, that 2 helped.
Q. What has been the key for you in the last few weeks to kind of start turning things around?
J.B. HOLMES: I've worked hard on my swing, so I've got a little more control over the ball.  I've putted better.  So I really putted poorly this year, and the last few weeks I've putted a lot better.  Been more confident with it and holed some more putts.
Q. Just making a couple good shots, does that give you a lot of traction and is that what gets it going?
J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, feeling good over the shot and seeing the ball go in the hole.  I hit a lot of good shots on the front too, it rolled over the edge.  Just it's a weird game, you know?  I hit that shot that holed out.  It was on the edge of that tree, could have hit that tree and dropped down and could have made a bogey, but it went through and went in the hole.
So this golf course for sure, you can -- if you just stay patient, you can make some birdies out here kind of at any point on the golf course.  Just not to get too aggressive, and you can make some bogeys too.  So just be patient, and hopefully some good things will happen.
Q. Paul Casey's having a good round, but you're very much in contention for tomorrow.  What is your mentality going in knowing that there are a lot of guys up at the top and you are too?
J.B. HOLMES: Just keep doing the same thing I've been doing.  Go through my routines.  It's just another day.  Go back out there and do the same thing I've been doing.  Do the practice and warm-up the same and just go out and play.  There's nothing I can do about how he's hitting it or how he's playing.  All I can control is what I do, and go out there and do the best I can and add them up at the end.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT