PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2014
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 ]Q.   Talk about your play today.   
J.B. HOLMES:   I think I'm really close.   I played pretty good today.   I had a chance to have a really good round.   I just putted really bad.   It was kind of Jekyll and Hyde.   Seemed like I either made a long putt or hit an awful putt.   I had three 3‑putts and missed a couple short birdie putts.   It was frustrating.   I finished with two birdies.   
Hopefully it will all come tomorrow.   I definitely hit it better today and had a chance to shoot a really good round.   Maybe the putter and everything will show up tomorrow and I can go low and hopefully finish off pretty good.  
   
 Q.   Two birdies there to finish it off.   
J.B. HOLMES:   Makes it a little bit easier.   I played really good on the front, missed a couple of short putts and was 3‑under.   
Then I had three bogeys on the back, just poor putts, didn't really thing going.   It was more kind of a save at the end, just to kind of hold my position.   It was playing pretty easy today.   You definitely could have shot a low number for sure.   
   
 Q.   Curious about your range of motion?  
J.B. HOLMES:   I've pretty much got it all back.   It did there for‑‑ it took almost two years to get it all back.   It was definitely real stiff the first year back and really had to work on it to get it back.   I've pretty much got all of it back now, but it took a long time.  
   
 Q.   Is it frustrating when you know you are playing well, but then you look at the scoreboard and everybody else is playing well?   
J.B. HOLMES:   No.   You just try to focus on your game.   They don't have the electronic scoreboards out there this week, so you don't see everybody.   But by the way the golf course is set up, I knew you could definitely go out there and shoot a low number.   Like I said, I shot 2‑under and pretty much just stayed in the same position.   Maybe lost a spot or two.  
Hopefully go out there tomorrow and throw a 5 or 6‑under at them and get it in check Top‑10 or something.   It's there, just haven't got every piece to click so far this week.   It seems like every day one of the things have been missing.   Hopefully that will come together tomorrow.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT