PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 7, 2014
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   How big was that finish to the round?
J.B. HOLMES:   That was really good to finish on a birdie.   I played really well all day.   The hole I made a double, I got a bad break.   My ball was in a divot in the fairway.   Pretty deep divot.   I thought I could get it out and didn't.   Cost me two. 
But other than that, I putted great today.   Kept it in the fairway, my chipping was good.   It was a really good day for me.

Q.   (Inaudible)?
J.B. HOLMES:   It's Round 1, so a lot of stuff can happen.   It's just nice to get a solid round under my belt.   A whole lot of golf left, so not really looking at that right now.   Just trying to do one step at a time.   Was happy with a good solid round and go out and do it again tomorrow.

Q.   Anything in particular you feel good?
J.B. HOLMES:   No.   Everything was really good.   Like I said, just had that one hole where I got a bad break and didn't execute out of difficult shot and it cost me.

Q.   You had some support? 
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, the support was awesome.   It was great.   I was very comfortable out there.   It's nice to be in a place I'm so familiar with it.   It was a lot of fun. 

Q.   (Inaudible) Ryder Cup? 
J.B. HOLMES:   Well, I've always really enjoyed this golf course.   I played well here when I was in college, all the stuff.   The Ryder Cup was just another one I felt good into it.   Having such good memories from there, playing well from there, definitely let's me know I can make some birdies out there.   If I make a bogey or something, not to worry about it, I can get it back. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
J.B. HOLMES:   Who is this? 

Q.   Lee Westwood?
J.B. HOLMES:   Okay. 

Q.   (Inaudible)?
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, I mean, it's pretty much all divot.   It was tough there.   I hit one right down the middle.   Perfect.   It was at an yardage I felt like I was going to be able to hit something close.   It was just a really rough lie. 
That's part of it.   Like I said, I was only in one, he was in several.   It's tough on that hole, surrounded by water.   You really got to make sure you hit a good shot.   It's more penal on that one, where if you are in a different hole you can get out of that.   Hitting a wedge out of that is more difficult than hitting an 8‑iron or something like that too.

Q.   What is it like to play a major here?   Does it have a different feel to it? 
J.B. HOLMES:   It's great.   Like I said, I'm familiar with the area, really familiar with the golf course, just comfortable with here. 
Just out there having a good time and a lot of fun.   Proud to be from Kentucky, a lot of support, just a lot of fun out there. 

Q.   How many times have you played Valhalla? 
J.B. HOLMES:   In my life, probably been around it 25 times or something, maybe more.   I don't know.   I started playing it when I was end of college, played it quite a bit that summer, off and on.   I feel pretty familiar with the golf course and comfortable with it. 

Q.   What can serious weather to do to this course? 
J.B. HOLMES:   I mean, it depends.   Depends on if it rains and then stops and then there is no wind.   Depends on if the wind blows hard all day.   Any time the wind kicks up, it makes it difficult. 
They have Sub Air under the greens, so they should be able to suck the moisture out.   Hopefully they should be able to control that.   Ball is not rolling a whole lot in the fairways now anyways.   Definitely make the course play longer, maybe get some mud balls.   It could change, but depends on what type of weather. 
If it just rains a little bit and softens up the greens, there is no wind, it's going to make the scores go lower. 

Q.   Over the years (inaudible)?
J.B. HOLMES:   I do.   You know, if you hit it in your own fairway.   Now, if you are in a divot in the rough, I would say no.   If you hit one down the middle of the fairway and you are blatantly in a divot, it's full sand and everything else, I think you should be able to drop it out of that. 
But it's always been like that, and everybody has got to deal with it.   I hit one today and it cost me.   Lee hit it into 3.   He fared pretty good out of it.   It's part of the game. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT