WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2014
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   For the fourth time in his PGA career J.B. Holmes entered the final day with the lead, and for the third time you converted it into victory.   Carrying the lead especially on the back nine can be a burden for a lot of players.   What was your comfort level as you were making your way around the golf course? 
J.B. HOLMES:   Nobody is comfortable on those last three holes, so they're definitely ‑‑ you can have disasters there.   I felt going into it.   I felt good all day.   Played well, used the driver really good.   Got out of trouble, when I did miss it, so it was a good day for me, had a lot of fun.   Haven't been there in a while, so it was just fun. 

Q.   What did you learn about yourself today? 
J.B. HOLMES:   You know, it's nice to be able to come back from all that stuff, you know.   The Lord was with me all week.   I leaned on him and definitely know that I can't do it by myself.   I tried that for a few years, so now I'm asking Him for help, and it worked out this week for me, and it was a lot of fun. 

Q.   You mentioned that "stuff."   Let's go back.   For viewers that don't know, 2011 you had brain surgery twice, broke your ankle last year, you had elbow issues.   Considering the difficult road to get back to where you are right now with your health, how special is this victory? 
J.B. HOLMES:   I mean, it's great, you know, it's what I've worked so hard to get to.   A few weeks after I broke my ankle last year, I said this might be the best thing that could happen to me.   It gave me some time off from golf and I got to spend some time with my new wife and family and friends, which I haven't got to do in a long time, so it let me recharge my batteries, and I worked really hard in the weight room and getting my skills back and speed back and, you know, it worked out this week.   I've been playing really well, and it was just a great experience and something I'll never forget. 

Q.   Did you always believe you would hold a Championship trophy again? 
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, I felt like I was too young‑‑ I felt like I hadn't accomplished what I felt like I could have been able to, and it was mostly just my mind and myself holding myself back, and I've worked hard this year to free myself up and to be able to walk out there comfortably and play. 
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you, J.B. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT