WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 3, 2014
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   We will start with J.B. Holmes.   You got you to 13‑under today.   Talk about your round and what went well today.   
J.B. HOLMES:   Played great, started out good, hit one in there close on 2 and made a putt and hit a great bunker shot on ‑‑ I think it was 5, to about a foot, made birdie there and hit 7 and 2, made a birdie, made a good championship on 8, got up there and made a good putt, bogeyed 9.   
I hit it a little left off of 10, just short of the green, 2‑putted for birdie, had a good drive on 15, had five‑iron into the par 5, just to the right, got it up and down.   
Then on 18, hit a great drive down the middle and pushed my 9‑iron a little bit, but it was a great distance and I hit a great putt.   
It was an all‑around great day for me, my short game was on, and chipping and putting and the driving game was on, too.   
   
 Q.   Can you tell me through your pre‑swing, prestroke approach, seems your methodical.   
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, I get the two practice swings ‑‑ are you talking about putting?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
J.B. HOLMES:   Just trying to see the line and the shot and I'm repeating over in my head, just being thankful to be out here and grateful to be in this opportunity, and try to put in to words what's going on, and try to enjoy the moment not to get ahead of myself, and just have fun.   
   
 Q.   I think a year ago you were at the Derby and now you have a chance to win a golf tournament.   Can you talk about the last year?   
J.B. HOLMES:   It's been a big change since last year, so‑‑ last year I broke my ankle and I was at the Derby this time and couple weeks after this I think I ended up having arm surgery, too.   
It was kind of the beginning of a long come‑back, so it's a big change coming back, but I worked really hard in the off‑season and the year off that I had and tried to improve my game and where I could, middle game and short game and, you know, when I came back I really felt good, this whole year and been playing well lately.   
   
 Q.   When you talk about where you were a year ago the difficulty of coming back, how satisfying is it for you to find yourself in this position?   
J.B. HOLMES:   Anytime you get a chance to win a tournament it's a great tournament, and you feel good because this is what you work to get to, and I've worked hard to get here and just going to enjoy it, and I'm happy to be here and looking forward to playing tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Did you ever get discouraged?   You've had a lot of health problems in your life.   When you broke your ankle, did you think, oh my God, here we go again?   
J.B. HOLMES:   Not really.   I had been playing a lot of golf and I was in a bad mental state and not shortly after I broke it.   I thought it might be the best thing that could happen to me.   Gave me a year off from golf, I got to spend time with family and friends and did a lot of rehab so it wasn't all vacation, but it was nice to get away from it a little bit.   
It's the longest break I've had from golf and tournament play I've had probably in my life, so I tried to look at it more of that instead of‑‑ it was a broken ankle, it was tennis elbow, so it wasn't quite as big as the brain surgery thing, so I wasn't thinking I wasn't ever coming back or anything like that, but I just enjoyed the time off and tried to get better where I could and looking forward to this year.   
   
 Q.   Earlier, Phil Mickelson said that sometimes it can be an advantage not playing in the final group.   What are your thoughts about playing in the final group tomorrow?   
J.B. HOLMES:   I mean, you can say that, you cannot say that.   Usually the winner comes from the last few groups.   The last group you kind of know what to do, but there has been a lot of people win from the last group, probably more than from the other groups.   I can see what he's saying, sometimes the greens get chewed up at the end or the course gets a little bit harder, but pretty much anybody that's going to win the tournament is morning coming from the last few groups.   You're looking at the scoreboard a little bit, I guess, it could put some extra pressure on you if you want to, but I'll take being in the last group.   
   
 Q.   J., afforded the chance to live a more normal life, was there any point where you thought, why do I want to go back to that golf, nomadic grind again?   
J.B. HOLMES:   No, I enjoyed playing golf.   I really loved the game.   I did miss it, but, you know, I definitely enjoyed my time off, too.   The goal is anyway, like Tiger and all those guys, play well enough you only have to play 14 or 15 times a year and everybody is trying to work toward that.   Excited to come back and never thought about not coming back.   
It can cross your mind but I missed playing.   
   
 Q.   J.B., when is the last time you went into the final round of a tournament in first place?   What would it mean to you to win?   
J.B. HOLMES:   I don't know, probably broken ankle, arm surgery, brain surgery ago.   I don't know.   
I was in the last group on Saturday at Bay Hill this year.   That was the last time‑‑ I don't know.   I mean, a lot.   I've worked really hard to get there and it would be a great accomplishment to come back and get a win in the bag.   
But I'm looking forward to it and the happy to be out here and go out tomorrow and do the best I can and if I win that's great.   If it ends up not being my day, then I'm just thankful to be out here and happy to have the opportunity that I have.   
   
 Q.   I know you were at the Derby last year, Derby is in 30 minutes or so.   Do you have a favorite and are you going to watch?   
J.B. HOLMES:   Actually I'll probably‑‑ I'm probably going to hit a few range ball and I probably won't get to see it but Harry's Holiday‑‑ I didn't look at much‑‑ I read the names of the horses and I liked that one, so I didn't get much information in on that.   I don't know if he's a favorite but that's the one I thinkI like.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thanks, J.B. for your time.   Good luck tomorrow.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT