WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 2, 2014
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   (No microphone.)  
J. B. HOLMES:   Yeah, I played great today, especially the first two holes, I felt like I was really controlling it and did everything really well.   Got a little loose in the last few and missed some fairways, short game has been good lately and hitting some good shots and good putts, so it was a great round for me.   
   
 Q.   We know you have power off the tee.   What do you see in your game which is giving you confidence besides that?   
J. B. HOLMES:   I worked hard on my wedges in the off‑season and stuff.   I have improved on that and feel like I can wedge in now, get it close, where in the past I haven't felt that way, so I feel like if I get a wedge in my hand I feel like I'm going to make birdie.   That's helped, been putting good as of late, doing everything pretty solid right now.   
   
 Q.   This course has changed, good golf course, obviously.   Do you like the changes?   I'm assuming so, where you are right now.   
J. B. HOLMES:   Yeah, the changes are pretty good.   They softened up the greens.   Some of it's hard to get the past out of, the greens used to break so much, and right now the greens being new and all they're not quite as fast as they're going to get, but for the golf course to be a year old, the greens are in great shape and it's otherwise perfect, and the fairway is perfect.   It's a great venue, and all the changes are good.  
   
 Q.   J.B., what was the key to your round today?   
J. B. HOLMES:   You know, I hit my driver really well at the beginning and, like I said, seemed like when I needed to score I hit a good putt.   Everything was solid.   I felt like I hit good, my irons were good, and I putted well.   It was a solid day all around.  
   
 Q.   This tournament has a big field to it, and you are two shots back going into the weekend.   Talk about how excited you are for the final 36.   
J. B. HOLMES:   Yeah, you know, I'm excited to get out there and just like I have every day, go out there and play and have a good time.   It's been great this year just to come back and get to play, since I didn't get to do it last year, so taking it one round at a time, one shot at a time and just enjoy the ride.   
THE MODERATOR:   Perfect.   Thank you, sir.     
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT