SHELL HOUSTON OPEN
April 3, 2014
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DOUG MILNE:   All right.   We'd like to welcome J.B. Holmes up here a successful 6-under 66 in round one of the Shell Houston Open.   J.B., thanks for joining us for a few minutes.   Had a pretty good history.   Runner up in 2009, I think.   And with that said, just some comments on today's opening round.  
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, it was a great start.   Like you said, I've had some success here before.   I enjoy this golf course.   You know, played pretty solid all day.   I putted well and hit a bunch of greens so my misses were pretty much in the right spot.   Just a good start.  
DOUG MILNE:   You're off to a good year this year.   Your ninth start and just one missed cut and a Top-10 a few weeks back.   What's going right for you?  
J.B. HOLMES:   You know, I'm doing everything pretty good, but I've been putting really well the last four weeks.   I've worked on my wedges in the off-season quite a bit and they've been a lot better.   So, just kind of been waiting for it to click together.   So I've been a little disappointed with some of the finishes considering how I feel like I've played.   I feel like it's close and just kind of waiting for it to click, and worked out today and hopefully I can put three more rounds together.  
DOUG MILNE:   We'll take some questions.  
   
 Q.   What do you like about this course?  
J.B. HOLMES:   You know, it's always well manicured.   It's not a whole lot of rough.   That's different for the Tour.   Usually we have quite a bit of rough.   But, you know, this course usually gets pretty windy.   It's nice to be able -- you hit it in a few places and still be able to come out.   The greens are in great shape.   I just like it.  
   
 Q.   Did you see any conditions that would give you any kind read on how the guys are going to play this afternoon?  
J.B. HOLMES:   The wind pretty much stopped when we got done.   It stays like that, they'll be low scores.   The greens are getting a little bit slower from wind this morning, little bit of rain.   Like I said, in the conditions now, probably see some low scores.   There's not a lot of wind.   I heard it could rain or bunch of stuff could change.   Stays like it does right now, then not too bad out there.  
   
 Q.   After a good round, how do you prepare for like the next round the next day?  
J.B. HOLMES:   You just kind of go through your same routine.   Think of it as another round.   You're looking at a great round and not really worried about the scoreboard.   You know, go to sleep the same time, get up your usual time, get to the course and warm up just the same, try not the change.   As much as you can, not change your situation and get in a routine is the easiest way to do it pretty much for every round.  
   
 Q.   Would you say the course favors long hitters like yourself?  
J.B. HOLMES:   I think this course in general can favor long hitters.   It's pretty long out there, it gets windy, and some of those holes could be difficult.   I would say it would favor the long hitters.  
   
 Q.   Did you have any goals or thoughts going into your round today?  
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah.   My goal today was just, you know, try to learn and grow on the situation that I got.   Go out there and try to learn from situations that I'm getting in and have a good time and try to just think positively and control the stuff that I can control.   After I hit the ball, I can't control it bouncing or anything like that.   Just trying to focus on stuff that you can control and just stay in the moment, stay in the present.   It's difficult, but that's the easiest thing to really stay there and play well.  
   
 Q.   Was there one shot that stood out in your round?  
J.B. HOLMES:   I hit a lot of good ones.   Hit a lot of good putts, too.   Not necessarily one shot.   Couple -- coming in on 5 and 6 usually tough holes and if I get through those, get a good round -- I ended up birdieing both of those.   It was nice to do that.  
   
 Q.   Good par save on 9, too.  
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah.   Good putt on 9.   First two shots aren't much, but good putts.  
DOUG MILNE:   All right.   J.B., thanks for your time.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT