TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 23, 2012
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Thanks very much.   J.B., you already had a good round going yesterday, and then the rain delay and you come out here and your on nine fairway, which 500 this morning, and you end up shooting 62.   How good is that?
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah.   Yeah.   Good round.   It was a great round.   It was a long round.   So it was good. 
I played well yesterday, and (inaudible) going in and out, and was really on.   And I came out today and started out in the fairway and hit a wedge in there about three feet and kind of chipped in from there. 
It was good.   Hit the ball really well.   I've hit it well every day.   Didn't score very well the first day, but I've been hitting the ball really well since.

Q.   Obviously you couldn't play from a better place this morning, because the round had already started.   Did you hit some mud balls out there?
J.B. HOLMES:   I got one, but it was up against the green chipping, so it didn't really affect me too bad.   It really isn't too bad.   (Inaudible).   Really wasn't too bad.   A little bit of mud, but nothing ‑‑ I thought I may get some bad ones, but it wasn't that bad.

Q.   Talking with your coach actually during the rain delay.   And he's on your bag this week and he's saying seems like the last three weeks that you are back to 100 percent full strength?
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah.   I'd say I'm pretty much there.   Stiff neck when I wake up in the morning a little bit, stuff like that.   But for the most part I feel comfortable. 

Q.   Well, you know, you're lying 59 on the fairway and the final hole.   That's always a nice number to have in your mind.   So I'm just curious, what do you expect out of yourself now?   Are you back to where it's like, you know what, just full bore ahead?
J.B. HOLMES:   I mean you just gotta ‑‑ I'm hitting the ball well.   I just gotta take it one shot at a time and be happy I'm hitting it well and go with that.   Golf's a funny game and you get bounces and everything else.   So I'm just going to go out there and do the best I can, and I'm just happy to be out here and glad I'm playing here.

Q.   And I imagine big picture, you're thinking Ryder Cup, aren't you?
J.B. HOLMES:   No, not really.   I'm thinking third round right now.

Q.   Well, great playing then.   Thanks for your time and go enjoy your couple hours off. 

Q.   Tell me about it. 
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah.   Played great.   Made a bunch of birdies, made some putts and hit everything pretty well.   Just all‑around a good round for me.

Q.   Was the golf course much softer when you resumed?
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah, it was a lot softer.   The balls were backing up where yesterday it was just kind of holding.   So it was a little bit different going in, but you had longer irons into the greens because your ball wasn't going quite as far.
But it made it where you could really go at the pins a little bit more.   Didn't have to worry about it bouncing off to the right or something or if you short side yourself, it's not quite as difficult to get up‑and‑down, but it was holding for sure.

Q.   The fairways are obviously damp, too.   Did that change some of your sight lines off the tee?
J.B. HOLMES:   No, not really.   I don't hit a ton of drivers out here.   I hit a lot of 3‑woods.   So it didn't really change a whole lot.

Q.   It's kind of been an up‑and‑down season coming off the surgery.   Did you feel this coming on?   Did you feel your game getting better?
J.B. HOLMES:   Yeah.   I mean I've played good the last two weeks that I've played, and really hadn't scored that great, but I feel like I've played ‑‑ you know, hit the ball really well, especially on the last five or six rounds. 
So yeah, I kind of felt it coming on a little bit, but I'm just happy to be out here.   In fact, I feel like I'm 100 percent and swinging at it good.

Q.   It's going to be a long day.   Do you try to pace yourself at all?
J.B. HOLMES:   I got a couple hours off.   I'll probably go back to the room or something.   It's my seventh year out here.   I've done this before.

Q.   We'll see you this afternoon. 
J.B. HOLMES:   Thanks.

Q.   J.B., you're teeing off later this afternoon.   How do you think the course will change from the way it was for you this morning?
J.B. HOLMES:   It'll probably be a little bit better.   You won't have worry about spin as much.   Hopefully it'll firm up a little bit.   They should hold really good because they were firm yesterday.   So won't have to worry about spinning it back as much.

Q.   Was there a point this morning where you thought, hey, I've got it going like I did yesterday?
J.B. HOLMES:   No.   Just taking one hole at a time.   There's definitely some birdie holes out there, and you just gotta put good swings on it.   And the last three holes I was really hitting it good.   I hit a good shot on 16 and hit a good putt and just misread it and then I had another shot on 17.   At the end there I really felt like I was just kind of looking at my spot and hitting it really well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT