WELLS FARGO CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2011
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. There's nothing like a double eagle, is there?
 J.B. HOLMES: No, not at all. That's the first one I've ever made, so it was nice it was during tournament play. Those are a lot harder to get than hole-in-ones. It was really fun and came at a good part of the round, too.

 Q. Came at the Kodak hole, by the way. Tell us about the shot. 215 yards, you used a 5-iron?
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, 215. It was uphill, so it was playing like 224, and I hit a 5-iron just right at it. Usually those aren't the ones that go in. I hit it just like I wanted to, and I just saw it land, and I couldn't really tell, but then everybody started cheering. You know, it was a neat feeling.

 Q. And then you come back at 16. How do you top that? But you make a nice long birdie putt there. 
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, that definitely helped, too, so came in and made a good putt on the next hole, hit a good tee shot and then a so-so second and hit a great putt. It was a great two holes for me.

 Q. 7-under 65, you're at 9, you're certainly well within range here, the leaders struggling out there. Your thoughts going into Sunday?
 J.B. HOLMES: Just go out there and try to play the best I can. I put myself in position for Sunday. That's all you can ask for. Go out there and hopefully post another good number. 

 Q. 65 is certainly a nice way to spend your Saturday afternoon, but highlighted obviously by 15. Can you talk about how 15 played out for you?
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, obviously that was my best hole of the day. I hit a good tee shot, hit it just over the trees on the left and maybe hugged the left side a little closer than I wanted to but ended up being down there perfect. I had 215 to the flag and hit a 5-iron and we were talking about didn't want to really get past the hole, try to stay a little short of that hole, and put a really good swing on it, hit it right where I wanted to, started just a touch left of the flag and cut back about two yards and looked great the whole way. 
 You know, you hit one like that, you're just hoping for it to be up there around four or five feet. I saw it bounce, and I thought when it hit the ground maybe it could be a little bit long but then everybody started cheering. So I was kind of like, did it really go in? Because usually it just doesn't happen like that. It was fun. 

 Q. Was there a moment of disbelief that it actually went in? You want it to be in obviously but you don't really believe it until you get up there?
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, even after the cheer you don't know -- usually when it gets that loud, you figure it went in. But still, from that distance it's hard to get that ball to go in that little hole. 

 Q. With the 65 today, obviously you shot up the leaderboard, much like McIlroy did last year. How do you go about your business the next couple of hours as you wait to find out what time you start? 
 J.B. HOLMES: I'll do the same thing I always do. I might go hit a few balls. But just another day tomorrow, put myself in position. That's all you can ask for. There's nothing I can do about it until tomorrow, so there's nothing I can do right now.

 Q. Conditions pretty benign out there in the morning?
 J.B. HOLMES: They weren't too bad. The wind picked up a little bit on the back. It was swirling a little bit. It was hard to tell exactly how the wind was blowing. But yeah, first two holes, starting out the wind wasn't blowing too much.

 Q. How nice is it to put a number up there and know that you're going to be in pretty decent shape, one of the last to tee off tomorrow?
 J.B. HOLMES: It's always good. It's always good to have a chance on Sunday, and it looks like I've put myself in position, unless one of the -- yeah, I'm still probably going to have a shot unless somebody goes really crazy on the back nine or something. But that's all you can ask for.

 Q. Have you ever had a double eagle before?
 J.B. HOLMES: I've been close a bunch. I've had them five or six inches, but they never seem to go in.

 Q. Have you ever had a hole-in-one?
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I've had two of those.

 Q. When you have a huge shot like that, I think the secret -- the question is, the next hole you've got to settle down and still produce another good score, so how big was the birdie?
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, it was good. It was great. I definitely had some adrenaline going, but I had a little walk for it to wear off. It was a long walk up to the green, then you get up there and then Chez had to play the hole, so I had a while before my next shot, so I had time to calm down. Hit a great tee shot and hit a so-so second and I hit a great putt. 

 Q. That's kind of an elevated green, so I gather from what you're saying you didn't see it go in. Do you know whether it bounced in or hopped in or rolled in?
 J.B. HOLMES: No, I saw it bounce, and then I'm guessing it kind of bounced and hit the pin and went in. I don't know, I don't think the cameras were on. It would have been nice if they would have been on. I don't know what it looked like. 

 Q. Can you describe the feeling of when you actually get out there and see that little white ball smiling at you when you pick it out of there?
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, it's a 2. Probably the feeling was more in the fairway. I pretty much knew it was in. But yeah, it's a great feeling. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT