WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2011
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURA HILL: J.B., we're sure seeing a lot of you in here for someone who wasn't in the field until so late. Just talk about how the match went today and expectations going forward.   
 J.B. HOLMES: I mean, it wasn't a very pretty match. And neither one of us played real well. I hit it in the desert a bunch. But I got out, made pars and just I didn't get -- I did just enough today.  
  
  Q. Obvious question, the guy you're playing tomorrow, you guys have ball speeds that are off the charts. Have you played with him much in standard stroke play?  
 J.B. HOLMES: A few times. I haven't played with him for a while. I played with him at the PGA last year, one round. I've played with him three or four times, I think.   
  
  Q. I guess you've got to be careful not to get too caught up in who is moving out there, because it's not about --  
 J.B. HOLMES: No, I think we're both past that in our careers. Maybe when we were 16. But we both know that's not the most important thing.  
  
  Q. Speak to the remainder of the guys who are still out there. It's obviously -- Jimenez had another big round, couple of other guys winning big. From what you've seen, how does this shape up for the next few days?  
 J.B. HOLMES: I don't know everybody that's won. I haven't gotten a lot of time to catch up on that. I'm not really looking at any of that anyways; I'm just looking at my match. That's all I can control. It doesn't matter what everybody else is doing.   
 You can come out one day and shoot 8-under, the next day you might come out and shoot even and lose. It doesn't really matter.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about what would you have been doing this week if you had been home in Orlando? Did you have any plans? Were you going to go fishing?  
 J.B. HOLMES: I was going to relax. This is my 5th week. I was out four weeks. I was going to fish some and hang out with my friends. My friend had a birthday party tomorrow I was going to go to. So looks like I'm going to miss that. So that's good; I'm glad to miss it. He'll have another birthday.  
  
  Q. That will teach you to keep winning?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Yes.   
  
  Q. You were 1-down with two to go. Were you concerned at that stage? Did you still feel confident?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Well, yeah, obviously I'm a little concerned we're running out of holes, but I just -- all I could do is just try to hit the shot in front of me and hit a good drive. Like I said, those are my best two drives of the day, the last two holes when I really needed them.   
 It adds a little pressure to the person you're playing if you're out there hitting a wedge in front of them and they've got to go first. I hit a good wedge on 17. Didn't have to make a good putt, but did what I needed to do.  
 Then 18, when Jason hit it over, I geared back on the wedge a little bit. I wanted to get it up there, but with the adrenalin and the wind coming behind you and out here the ball can really go sometimes, I was aiming for it to be short.  
  
  Q. On 12, the par-3, you made a clutch up and down after getting relief. Were you concerned at any point you weren't going to get that relief?  
 J.B. HOLMES: No, not really. When I was walking back there, yeah, obviously I was wondering. But once I started looking at it, if you've got the club length, the way the rule is, either way I was going to be right behind it. I knew I had to go over there.   
 And the next thing was just the distance. Luckily, the distance stopped right there on the edge of the grass. If it had been a couple more steps, I would have had to drop it in the desert and it would have been a harder shot.   
 There were several turning points in the match. That really helped because it looked like Jason -- if the stands aren't there, I'm screwed, Jason wins that hole more than likely. But I got -- knowing the rules and just the way we play out here, I got relief from that. And then I made a great up-and-down. And he didn't hit his best of chips. But it's tough chipping out here, the grass is real sticky. But that was a big turning point.  
 But then he won the next hole. And then he wins the 15, I don't hit a very good chip. I hit one just over the green, and the club got stuck a little bit and he goes up one.  
  
  Q. Had you heard before the match that Jason hadn't been giving people short putts? You always sort of putted a few short ones early and then you got close enough it wasn't an issue, I guess?  
 J.B. HOLMES: No, I hadn't heard any of that. If it's two or three feet then make him putt. I made him putt a shorter one on 1, but it was straight down the hill. Normally I would have given him that, but it was straight down the hill. You get some speed and hit a lip and it can lip out.   
 I thought we both gave putts pretty good today. I didn't feel like he was not giving me putts or anything like that.  
  
  Q. It's supposed to blow a lot tomorrow. How will that change this golf course and do you consider yourself a good wind player?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Well, I played out of the desert all day today. If that puts more people in the desert, that will give me an advantage, I guess. I've been practicing out of there (laughter).   
 I consider myself a pretty good wind player. Usually I don't like playing in crummy conditions, but over the years it seems like the tournaments where the weather has not been very good, I tend to play very good. So I would consider myself a decent wind player and pretty good bad weather golfer.  
  
  Q. Is there any advantage coming into this thing so late that maybe, you know, you didn't sweat it and you weren't agonizing over it? I'm not suggesting you do that too much normally, but just kind of free wheeling it and going out there with not many expectations?  
 J.B. HOLMES: You've got expectations. I was wanting to get into this tournament. I was playing well. Definitely didn't come here and think I'm glad I got in, I'm going to lose it. I came here to win it. Obviously, I'm happy I got in. I would have liked to get a practice round, but it didn't work out that way. I was happy to be here and take the same attitude I've had all year, and be happy to be here and play as good as I can.   
 LAURA HILL: Good luck this weekend.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT