NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 18, 2011
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I know you were kind of on the cusp of contention in Phoenix, and of course you've won twice there. Does this course fit your eye? I know it's more of a precision course.   
 J.B. HOLMES: I really like this golf course. I don't see it as much precision as everybody else says they do. There's not a whole lot of rough, and the fairways are fairly big. The greens are -- you've got to hit it to the right spot on the greens, but you've got to do that on every golf course.  
  
  Q. How would you assess your golf game a month, month and a half into the season? Are you happy with it?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I'm playing pretty good. I'm definitely not disappointed with it. I definitely -- I'm not getting everything out of it I think I can. I think I can do better. But I'm playing -- I'm just playing solid.  
  
  Q. Are you working on anything right now with your game?   
 J.B. HOLMES: You know, just mentally being ready and more of that stuff than actually my swing. My swing is pretty good. I can hit all the shots, so I'm trying to get where I need to be to compete out here between the ears. That's where a lot of it is, where most of it is. The best players in the world, that's where they're at. That's where they dominate.  
  
  Q. You have goals I'm assuming? You probably want to play on the Presidents Cup team, and I know you're kind of on the edge of getting all the events you want. How much are you aware of that?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Not really. You have just got to play. You can't worry about that. There's nothing you can do about that on the golf course. I just go out and do the best I can every week, and if I get in, I get in, and if I don't, I don't. It's a tough system. I've missed it -- the last two years it seems I've missed everything by one. The way they've got the World Rankings set up it's hard to get up there. I don't completely understand it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT