NORTHERN TRUST OPEN
February 17, 2011
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   LAURA HILL: A nice start. I know you're glad to get finished. You've had a couple good finishes here the last couple of years and off to another good start today. Talk about your round.   
 J.B. HOLMES: I played pretty solid today. I had a couple bogeys that were just more mental mistakes; a three-putt, I missed a short one. But made six birdies, hit the driver well and hit the irons pretty good and putted so-so.   
  
  Q. What is it about this course that suits you and that you seem to be so comfortable here?   
 J.B. HOLMES: I don't know. I just -- I've played well and I'm just comfortable here. I like the layout. I think it's a good golf course. Several holes set up a little dogleg right maybe more than some courses on TOUR, and I like hitting a cut. But I think it's just a great layout and a good golf course.  
  
  Q. Was it slow out there today?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, it was very slow. We waited a lot. I mean, it was a little bit cooler, I guess, and I don't know, but -- did they add some players to the field this year, 12 players? Maybe they've got a few too many people out there, I don't know. It was a little slower than it has been the past few years.  
  
  Q. Is that frustrating?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Well, to not have any delays, and I don't know if they're going to get the round in, that's not very -- that's cutting it pretty close.   
  
  Q. What hole did you three-putt on?   
 J.B. HOLMES: It was on my third hole. It was like, hmm, 12.   
  
  Q. Can you just talk a little bit about your year? You had a good finish in Phoenix, and you're playing pretty well right now. You've got to have confidence.   
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I'm off to a pretty good start. I played good at Phoenix, got 5th there, and I played solid last week besides a really bad start at the beginning of the third round, finished tied 13th, I think, there. Just been hitting the ball well, just getting it in the hole. So it's been pretty good. I've been making a lot of birdies. I've been making too many bogeys is what I've been doing. I've been making a lot of birdies. So if I can just knock down the bogeys and keep making the birdies I'll be in good shape.  
  
  Q. I have to ask because I'm a local person, do you guys take note of the NBA All-Star Game being here?   
 J.B. HOLMES: No, I mean, not really. Actually on this Saturday I think I'm going to go to the dunk contest or something like that, but I think -- I think it's this Saturday. I'm looking forward to that. That should be fun. But prior to somebody telling me that I didn't really know it was here.  
  
  Q. Are you an NBA fan?   
 J.B. HOLMES: I mean, I like basketball. I watch the Playoffs. I don't watch much of the rest of the regular season.  
  
  Q. You're a UK fan, right?   
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah.  
 LAURA HILL: Good luck tomorrow. Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT