THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 31, 2010
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. At this point now, 60 is almost passe now. Should it be?  
 J.B. HOLMES: No. I mean, you know, because I've seen people in the world ever shoot 60. So, I mean, there's just been a lot of the great play lately, so you've seen some big numbers.  
 If I had shot 60 maybe this time last year, probably get a little more attention than it's probably gonna get. But there's been a lot of great scores lately.  
  
  Q. Overall, as you look back on 11 birdies, obviously a grit day. Were there any times when you started thinking about that magic number?   
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, there was some -- I hit some good shots on the first hole. Just kind of, Oh, birdied the first hole. Maybe I can make 18 birdies.   
 So, you know, I got that on my head. I made a bogey on 3, but it was just a good day. My turn on the back nine around 12 and 13, I thought, Well, you know, if I have a really good finish maybe I could give it a shot.  
  
  Q. What did you see on the putt on 17?  
 J.B. HOLMES: It broke left. I mean, two days in a row I've hit perfect putts on that hole and just not gone in. I mean, it was -- looked like it had to go a little bit left. I saw it right on the left edge, and it just didn't move. I couldn't believe that it didn't move.   
 So that one didn't bother me as much as -- I hit one in there about three feet on 11. I hit a good putt, and it shot right and lipped out on me. So that one was more of a -- I felt like I really should have made that one.   
  
  Q. Carl Pettersen did the same thing that I guess you're trying to do this week: make the cut on the number, shoot a 60, and then go on and win. Do you take some inspiration from the fact that he was able to do that?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, that was last week. I mean, there's been a couple guys that should win that just made it on the number, the cut. You know it's possible, so we'll see where that ends up at the end of the day.   
 Overton is still two ahead. If he goes out and plays like he's been playing, goes out and shoots 5- or 6-under, then he's got an 8-shot lead. It'll be tough to come back. He's a good player.   
 But you never know. Maybe I get hot two days in a row and shoot 60, 60. You never know. (Laughing.)   
 I put myself in a position, and that's really all you can ask for.   
  
  Q. Everybody talks about how long you hit it. I talked to Rocco, and he talked about your wedge game today and how good it was. You were really flipping with the flatsticks, weren't you?   
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I was hitting it close. I hit three inside a foot, so I was definitely on with the wedges today. I was putting pretty good. I was doing everything pretty good today.   
 You know, when it all clicks like that, golf is a lot of fun.  
  
  Q. When you were 7- or 8-under through 13, did the thought cross your mind?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Well, I knew I was quite a bit a ways, but, yeah, I knew if I played well I had a chance. I hit some good putts on the back nine that didn't go in. So, you know, it's a little frustrating when you look back and end up one short.   
 I mean, it's a great round no matter what. When you look back and there's a three-footer you missed or even the eagle putt on 17 where you hit two good shots and then, you know, I hit the putt right where I wanted to.   
 So to do that, hit good shots, to end up one short is a little frustrating. I'll definitely take it.  
  
  Q. Is there a 59 out?  
 J.B. HOLMES: Oh, yeah. Yeah. This golf course, the beginning of the week, if you get no wind, there's definitely a 59 out there. It's not that different.   
 We'll see if the greens hold up. Usually in the afternoon the greens are getting a little more bumpy, so we'll see what happens.   
  
  Q. Playing with Rocco is fun any time. But when you're both playing as well as you were, it had to be a blast.   
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I mean, I think we had 18 birdies in the group, so, I mean, we were having a lot fun. We were just chatting away. We started talking on 14 or 15. We both made par, and we were like -- my caddie said, Par is not a bad score. I was like, Man, but it feels like it.   
 So, you know, Rocco was kind of the same way. We were both making a lot birdies.  
  
  Q. Take us through yesterday. You come in at 2-under. Was it late? Early? Did you know where the cut was?  
 J.B. HOLMES: It was early. And when I finished, I pretty much thought I wasn't gonna make the cut. I thought it was gonna definitely go to 3. Then I look at it again at like 4:00, and it was like already 66, so I was pretty sure it was out. Then later on it got above it, so I never thought it would come back. It did. Fortunately for me it did.   
 Got out here early before the winds blew and the greens were good, you know, and put up a good score.  
  
  Q. Jim Justice has said that he would eventually like to bring the U.S. Open here. Would this be a suitable course?   
 J.B. HOLMES: They would to have lengthen it a whole a lot. It would be tough to have a -- at 7,000, it would be tough to have a U.S. Open here.  
 But they could definitely tighten up the fairways and make this more difficult. But, I mean, it's possible, but they would have to make a lot of changes.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT