VALERO TEXAS OPEN
May 13, 2010
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. J.B, what a great finish for you. You come home 4-under par, 32 with a birdie, eagle finish on 17, 18.
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, it was a good finish for me. I hit the ball great all day. I didn't make anything. I missed two little short putts and I hit the ball so good. 
 I should have been 5, 6-under going into the last two holes and just didn't make anything. So it was nice to feel like I salvaged that round a little bit and finished like that. I was hoping maybe get birdie, birdie. Birdie, eagle that was really, really great. Feeling good.

 Q. Talk about the approach into the 18th. We had you 261 out.
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, 240 front and we were just trying to fly it a little bit past that, probably around 250. I hit it, held a little cut into the wind, held it right where I wanted to, and hit and bounced up and from the fairway it looked like it might have had a chance to go in but I had a good line. It was about six, seven feet short. Good putt and made it.

 Q. Absolutely. You got off to such a quick start last week at The Players Championship and really you're in the midst of a great year, 17th in FedExCup standing.
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah. I've been playing great rounds, hitting the ball great. If I just start putting like I did earlier in the year, you know, I feel like I can do some good things. But I'm hitting the ball really well right now.

 Q. You went through a little swing change at one point last year, going from a draw to a fade and now back. How are you hitting ball and what's your predominant ball flight?
 J.B. HOLMES: I'm playing a cut right now. I've been playing that for awhile. I'm hitting it great. I think I had 11 birdie putts inside 12 feet today. I hit the ball fantastic. Putter let me down a little bit. Finished strong. Made a couple putts at the end. It was good.

 Q. Good start on a tough golf course. Congratulations.
 J.B. HOLMES: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT