THE HONDA CLASSIC
March 7, 2010
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   J.B. HOLMES: I felt pretty good on the last hole. Hit a pretty good shot and got a couple bad breaks. I hit a pretty good third shot, second putt and backed off. On 17, I hit a pretty good 6-iron, wind didn't really touch it and hit it in there -- and there was a big shell behind my ball. I didn't know whether to go at it if it was going to shoot out or go long. Perfect putt, right in the center of the cup about a foot. 
 18, hit a good drive and hit a good 3-wood. Over there, the grass was trampled down pretty good and went across the green. I didn't hit a very good shot and didn't hit a very good putt. So, you know, some bad shots, some bad breaks there at the end. 
 I'm getting in Doral. That was my goal at the beginning of the week, I'm trying to get in the Top-50 in the world, get into Doral and get into the Masters. That's been my goal so far. I've been playing great, and, you know, it's been a pretty good week. I could have helped myself a little bit better if I had finished better, but all in all, it's not a bad break. 
 I'm happy I got in. That was good news to walk in and figure out I made that. I've only played there a couple of times, I wasn't a real big fan of it. I thought, if the wind doesn't blow, you shoot 68 and you get lapped. 18 is a tough hole out there, but if the wind doesn't blow, people can shoot low. 

 Q. Did you ever think about signing up for Puerto Rico on Friday?
 J.B. HOLMES: No. I was going to take a week off. But then I was just going to take a week off and play three or four there at the end, and now I'll play Miami and I'll probably take Tampa off. 

 Q. Did you think you had made it afterwards, you kind of tossed your ball into the water. Did you think you had blown it? 
 J.B. HOLMES: Were you watching? It was frustrating. (Laughter).
 If I played that scenario a thousand times, I don't think it would do it again. It was frustrating it happened that way. I hit some poor shots and got a couple bad breaks, but all in all didn't get the ball in the hole and it's my fault. So, oh, well. 
 I felt pretty good. Anthony hit a shot over there, and I probably should have went ahead and hit the ball, so I was just waiting, and maybe it turned out -- (Inaudible.)

 Q. Have you always gone for 18 this week?
 J.B. HOLMES: If I've been close enough. The first day I went for it. And today with that pin over there -- I had 238 to the front and I thought, well, I'll just hit it over there in those bunkers and that will be a much easier shot. Hit it pretty much where I was aiming, and got over there, he told me I could drop it in there off the two, I could take it in a heartbeat. I hit it in a good spot. I just didn't hit a good shot. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT