AT&T PEBBLE BEACH NATIONAL PRO-AM
February 14, 2010
J.B. Holmes
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. What is the balance between playing well here and competing well here and contending and another guy edging you out on the 72nd hole?
 J.B. HOLMES: You know, Dustin played great. I think they had such a big lead, and the way the scores have been going this week, I figured I had to shoot 8-under to even get close to 'em. 
 You know, the weather changed today, and they were still three or four shots ahead most of day. They struggled a little bit there at the end and brought it back and had some chances.
 It was nice to -- kind of caught myself off guard. I was kind of like, you know, they're three or four shots ahead and I was trying to make some birdies and they weren't going in, and then making pars was catching up to them. 
 So I had some shots there at the end. Had some pretty good putts, I thought. 17, I really felt like I had a good line on that one. 
 18, I really felt good on that putt. Thought I was gonna make it. Just didn't go in.

 Q. How much incentive or excitement propels you towards the U.S. Open later in the summer having competed well here?
 J.B. HOLMES: You know, I really like Pebble. I've always liked this tournament, and this is the first time we ever got good weather. That was nice, too. 
 I think it'll be good. A little short for most U.S. Opens, but the greens are so small. If they get the greens really firm, it will be very difficult. 

 Q. Is there a favorite hole on this course for you? 
 J.B. HOLMES: Um, you know, they're all pretty great. I like -- I probably like 8; 8 is probably my favorite hole. 

 Q. Is that because you holed out there?
 J.B. HOLMES: No, that's not it. Competitively on that hole I think I probably played tit ten times in tournaments, and I bet you I'm six or seven under on it. I've played it really well. 

 Q. You said the weather changed today. Didn't seem like the wind was that strong. Was it just that it came from a different direction?
 J.B. HOLMES: Well, it was blowing pretty good at times. It would be blowing and then it would stop; and then it would be blowing and then it would come from a different -- I mean, it just everywhere today. 
 It was kind of a heavy wind, if that makes sense. It really was affecting the ball at times. Sometimes you think it's really hurting the ball and you hit one and it stops and then it (indiscernible).
 You know, it was a beautiful day. It wasn't like it was really hard. But compared to what everybody had been shooting on this golf course, the scores weren't that low today. 

 Q. The scores are really high. Is that just the weather?
 J.B. HOLMES: That's the weather, the pins, and the greens. At the end of four rounds, the greens are getting pretty bouncy. You know, it was pretty bouncy getting all those footsteps on it. And as much rain as they've had, that's kind of how poana gets when you have that much play on it. 
 The course is in great shape this week. Looks like they're heading the right direction for the Open. 

 Q. Yesterday you said you expected professional pins today. Were they that much more difficult?
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I thought they were much more difficult. They tucked a few. Maybe it just felt harder because the wind was blowing. 
 Yeah, it was more of what we're used to on tour instead of kind of the amateurs, you know, got to play all week in one spot so they're more towards the middle of the green. 

 Q. Any examples where a pin was maybe easier in the first round was harder today? 
 J.B. HOLMES: I mean, a bunch of them. 1, 2.

 Q. The most extreme? 
 J.B. HOLMES: Most, extreme, No. 5, the par-3. 

 Q. Back right?
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah. Looks like you're hitting it into the ocean. Intimidating hole. 

 Q. Next tournament Phoenix?
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah.

 Q. You won there twice before. Got to be feeling good going into that. 
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah, I'm playing great. Hopefully I can continue that. Go home and rest a little bit this week and then come back and hopefully play well again.

 Q. Good vibes going back to a place you won before? 
J.B. HOLMES: Obviously. You always have good memories. Already feel like you got a leg up when you go out there. I've had a lot of good experiences there. Always different with the crowd and everything. Should be fun.

 Q. Describe what 17 and 18 were like knowing that birdie would put you in the lead or maybe get you in the playoff. 
 J.B. HOLMES: I felt like I had to get a birdie to get into the playoff. When you get in contention, just like in junior golf when you're playing one shot behind or whatever, it's just a tournament. 
 You know, it's a little bit of nervous, but it's excited nervous. You get a little adrenaline pumping, so you got to gauge back a little bit on your clubs.
 But it was fun. It was fun. Nice to be in contention in a beautiful golf course like this. You see it on TV growing up. Would have liked it to end a little bit better for me, but I had a good week. Had my chances and just didn't happen.

 Q. (No microphone.)
 J.B. HOLMES: Yeah. Had pretty good shots in there, you know, 15-footers. You would have liked to have made one of 'em, but just didn't happen. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT