OMEGA DUBAI DESERT CLASSIC
January 29, 2015
Hennie Otto
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  HENNIE OTTO:   The wind picked up a little bit this afternoon, but if you play solid, the greens are really good.   If you hit good shots close, you can make the putts.   If you play well, especially there's a little breeze, makes a difference.   
   
 Q.   You didn't play the first two weeks of The Desert Swing and you have good reason for that.   Tell us about it.   
HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah, it's school holidays back home.   We are never home, so the extra two weeks with the kids is fun.   My little one started at school, so it's always nice to be there for his first big day.  
   
 Q.   Tomorrow you get the course in perfect condition in the morning.   What did you expect to do then?   
HENNIE OTTO:   Golf course is perfect anyway, isn't it, afternoon or morning.   It will be nice.   It will be fresh.   The ball doesn't travel that far in the mornings to be honest but I'm playing nicely and I'm looking forward to tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Your thoughts on 6‑under par?   
HENNIE OTTO:   The golf course is in perfect condition.   To make the putts, if you hit good putts, they go in.   I hit the ball good the back nine.   I hit it close and I made really good putts, and that makes a difference.   
Today I think I saved par once today, up‑and‑down for par, and that kept the momentum going a little bit.   But the golf course is in perfect, perfect condition, so if you really play well, you're going to score well.   
   
 Q.   Are you in perfect condition?   
HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah, a good rest after the long season last year.   It was still school holidays back home, so I spent time with the kids.   It's nice, the season start and then we can go on from here.  
   
 Q.   Given where your home is, your off‑season is shorter than most, so you benefitted that two weeks have you?   
HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah, it's nice.   Where we live is actually a holiday destination.   It's always nice to take an extra two weeks off and come back fresh.  
   
 Q.   Do you feel absolutely fresh and ready for 2015 and injury‑free at the moment?  
HENNIE OTTO:   Are you ever ready?   I don't know.   But injury‑free, that's good.   So far, so good.   The back kept up from the injuries last year, looking forward to 2015.   I'm working hard with Jamie Gough, so we are looking forward to working together for the rest of the season.   
   
 Q.   Are you seeing positive signs already, not only with the score today but in other aspects?   
HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah, definitely.   I think we've only been working for seven tournaments, and what we've done so far, it's a big jump.   So I'm looking forward to what he's got in store for me.  
   
 Q.   Often it's just a tweak, sometimes it's a big transformation.   Where does that one lie?   
HENNIE OTTO:   It's just little tweaks here and there.   Because of the back injury, I started doing bad habits and we're just trying to get out of the bad habits and get back to basics.  
   
 Q.   Do you enjoy playing these desert courses?   
HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah, I always enjoyed stopping in Abu Dhabi, but like I said, it was school holidays so nice to be home.   But The Desert Swing is always good.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT