TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN BY THE MINISTRY OF YOUTH AND SPORT
November 13, 2014
Hennie Otto
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What is your verdict on 5‑under around here? 
HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah, I mean, good weather today and the golf course didn't play that tough to be honest.   There's a lot of birdies out there to be made and it's the type of golf course if you get yourself in the right places, you'll make a lot of birdies.

Q.   And you did make a lot of birdies, seven in a row?
HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah, I was more surprised at one stage, but I hit really good shots close and where I wanted to hit them.   If you hit them the right side of the holes, you can make some putts and that's what I did.   Slow start, bad luck on 11, I plugged it in the lip with a driver.   And then 12, 3‑putted and from there onwards it was pretty good.

Q.   What's the most you've ever had in a row? 
HENNIE OTTO:   I have no idea.   Might be seven (laughing). 

Q.   Quite something when you've had four, you think, oh, this is a good day; five, you chuckle to yourself; seven, you wonder where it's going to lead to?
HENNIE OTTO:   We did have a laugh when I made seven.   I said, I'm more surprised than you, boys.   I hit it close so that helps.

Q.   The course, it's not easy, is it?
HENNIE OTTO:   It's not easy, especially the greens.   If you hit in the wrong places, you can easily 3‑putt.   That's what I said, if you hit it in the right places, you can make a lot of birdies.

Q.   Is it nice playing in the sunshine after coming back from China and the difficulties out there?
HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah, definitely.   The rough is a bit easier, as well, this week.   Yeah, tomorrow is going to be a bit of an iffy day.   It's always good to play a resort course.   It's a good resort course to be honest. 

Q.   And all the more important to build the score up? 
HENNIE OTTO:   There's birdies to be made, so if you're patient, I think on this course, you're going to make them. 

Q.   Energy levels? 
HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah, a tough two weeks, and there's four to go.   So it's not going to be easy. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT