ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 3, 2014
Hennie Otto
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts of 5‑under over two days?  
    HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah, I mean it's pretty good, especially today.   Today was like on and off rainy and windy.   The wind did die down a little bit, and yeah, it's difficult because they slowed the greens down.   I think they were waiting for some big wins, so it's tough to make a few putts on the links course today.  
   
 Q.   But nothing like as bad as we feared it would be, is it?  
    HENNIE OTTO:   Exactly.   They thought it was going to be a terrible day today, but I thought that the wind actually came early yesterday.   We played Kingsbarns, and that was quite tough as well.  
    But I mean that's links golf.   It's not Scottish golf if it's not bad weather, isn't it.   But yeah, I'm playing well.   I've hit a few loose shots but I've managed to just keep it to like one bogeys and not double bogeys.  
   
 Q.   Obviously you played extraordinarily well just a few weeks ago.   Feels like an age ago and there's been a bit of up‑and‑down since then.   Has your back been troubling you again for a while?  
    HENNIE OTTO:   No, not really.   I just got back from the injuries, and just taking it one step at a time.   I just feel a bit tired from three weeks ago, starting to get a bit fatigue in there.   Just take it day by day like I normally do and see what happens.  
   
 Q.   Well, you had hoped it was 100 percent, and with a victory we thought maybe kick on a little, but I guess you just gotta be careful?  
    HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah, the year's not finished yet, is it.   Still a few tournaments to go, and yeah, I'm just easing into it and hopefully we'll have a good finish to the end of the year.  
   
 Q.   This is a tournament you usually enjoy, isn't it, and you've had some very good knocks around here?  
    HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah.   I've been lucky.   I've had some good amateurs and some nice guys to play with, especially DJ.   He's from America and it's really nice to have a good amateur so you can have a good laugh and all that.   It's always nice.  
   
 Q.   It's always important, isn't it, because you're spending so long out there in each other's company.   You've gotta have that kind of camaraderie?  
    HENNIE OTTO:   Yeah.   Yeah.   It's nice.   It makes it easy if you've got a nice amateur and they always play a little bit better, because they always try their best.   Sometimes they try too hard.   But yeah, I think we were like 17 under, so we did pretty well in the team thing.  
   
 Q.   Absolutely.   You've got another challenge tomorrow, but in a nice position individually and as a team?  
    HENNIE OTTO:   Exactly.   We're playing Carnoustie tomorrow, so hopefully we'll have a good side.   Like I say, just take it day by day and see how the weather keeps up.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT