PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2011
Hennie Otto
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Before we speak about today's incredible round, tell us how you made the cut right on the mark?
 HENNIE OTTO: I got it to six under yesterday with three holes to go and then I double bogeyed the seventh. I had five under par in my head to be the number for the cut and I chipped and putted on the eighth for par but then managed to birdie nine to get in right on the mark.

 Q. What was your thinking going into today?
 HENNIE OTTO: Well with the early time and fresh greens, I really wanted to have a go. I played well last week but made 18 pars in row in the first round. Yesterday I also played well but didn't make the putts but I knew it was going to happen sooner rather than later for me.

 Q. Can we expect to see some other low scores today, is the course set up for it?
 HENNIE OTTO: I think so but it all depends on the wind. If it stays like this it is not too tough. But there are a few key holes into the wind but the rest of the course is accessible and if you hit the ball close you can make a score. But the greens do get a bit bumpy in the afternoon.

 Q. I dare say you didn't think you could take the lead from the cut-line, did you?
 HENNIE OTTO: No, not really. You have numbers in your head before you tee off and you do have numbers in your head this morning before you tee off but I did hit the ball good today and that is what made the difference.

 Q. You had a storming start and the eagle at the third helped?
 HENNIE OTTO: Yes well the eagle, the pin was in the front and my second shot got almost right there so my chip was only about 20 feet or so but it was nice to see the ball drop.

 Q. When you were nine under par with four holes to go, were you thinking of that elusive 59?
 HENNIE OTTO: Yes I did. At the 15th I was 40 yards from the pin from the tee and I made par, I didn't get it over the hill. At the 17th, I could have gone for the green but I went left of the green, which left me with a basic chip and I made five from there. But to get to nine under with four holes to go and two of them are really good birdie chances, you do start thinking you should take advantage, but that's just the way it is. But I can't be disappointed. If you'd given me a 63 this morning before I went out I would have definitely taken it.

 Q. And you say this has been coming?
 HENNIE OTTO: Yes it has. I won back home in South Africa a couple of weeks ago and I have been working on a few things in my game and I have just had to be patient which is hard for me because patience is not one of my strong points but it is coming through and I am feeling I am nearly where I want to be. Mentally I am stronger than I used to be and I am not surprised that it is coming through. My life has changed over the last couple of years and I am just doing the right stuff now







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT