BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 17, 2003
Hennie Otto
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







STEWART McDOUGALL: Ladies and gentlemen, Hennie Otto, 3-under par, 68.  Hennie, it's fair to say you've not had your best of seasons so far on the European Tour, but you led the qualifying, are you back in form?
HENNIE OTTO:  Yeah, the last couple of weeks I've been working with Pete Cowen, and trying to get my game back on standards.  Beginning of the season I played really well.  So I've been shooting low scores.  I said to my caddy that this is a putting competition.  I really putted well of late to shoot a low score.

Q.  How have you been since the back operation?  Could you talk about how you are?
HENNIE OTTO:  It's much better.  Thank you.  No complaints, no complaints.

Q.  What caused the back operation?
HENNIE OTTO:  The doctor said anything.  I don't know.  It could be picking up a suitcase or a golf bag or some sports events I had or whatever.  Can't blame anything.

Q.  What did they do to your back?
HENNIE OTTO:  Doctor's words, I can't tell you.  But it was a lumber decompression, and all sorts of funny things.

Q.  Did it threaten your career?
HENNIE OTTO:  I had four months off, and thought I was never going to play golf again.  But they said there was no need to be worried about it, it's going to take a couple of months to get back to standards.  After the operation you are always scared after a few months.  But three years nearly, so it's all up to standard, I think.

Q.  When did you start with Pete Cowen?
HENNIE OTTO:  About five weeks ago.

Q.  What has he been working with you on?
HENNIE OTTO:  Simple things, you know.  You forget what to do.  He taught me how to get back to basics and play to your strength, and that's all.

Q.  What time did you get out of bed this morning?
HENNIE OTTO:  4:00.

Q.  Were you glad to get the early call?
HENNIE OTTO:  I think I got the best draw, 6:30, after the weather, and they said there was going to be thunder storms in the afternoon.  I thought what a great draw.  And I got here this morning and it was raining.

Q.  You worked with Jos in 2000.  Have you worked with him since then?
HENNIE OTTO:  No.

Q.  Was that a result of your rugby playing days?
HENNIE OTTO:  No, I can't blame that.

Q.  How close were you to choosing -- it says in your biography you were close to Otto choosing between rugby and golf.  Was there any --
HENNIE OTTO:  Wanted to play rugby, but golf was where the money is.

Q.  It's not bad in rugby, either.  Was it a serious consideration, which one to choose between?
HENNIE OTTO:  I don't know, to be honest.  I don't know.  To be honest, so little people make it in rugby.  You have to be a superstar, and you have to be six foot four, and I'm only five foot seven.

Q.  Can I ask you to compare your emotions when you shot 3-under in the first round of the Open to that time where you were so frustrated you threw your clubs in the lake?
HENNIE OTTO:  I'm much calmer now, to be honest.  My attitude has changed.  I'm still a little bit edgy sometimes, but that's changed a lot.  I'm playing with better clubs.

Q.  Have you worked on the mental side to make yourself calmer or have you done anything to make yourself calmer?
HENNIE OTTO:  Like my manager says, it's tough to grow up sometimes.  But I worked with Carel Nieuwoudt to get all that focused, and Pete Cowen, as well, also talks about a few things.

Q.  Do you think you can maintain this over the four days?
HENNIE OTTO:  I hope so.  Give it to me now, I'll take it.

Q.  Would you talk about the fourth hole?  You were looking at the possibility of going 2-over after four, and saved a nice par there.  Would you talk about that?
HENNIE OTTO:  First I was in the rough, I missed the green.  We practiced it from the right-hand side, on the right.  So I said to my caddy, if we miss, miss on the right, I can always chip it back on.  And I can have a long putt anyway, down there.  So we practiced that on the practice rounds.  So it was a good putt I made.

Q.  (Inaudible.)
HENNIE OTTO:  No, not really.  The only thing, that it's so soft.  The rough is very dry, so it's easy to get through it.  It's very patchy, but it's not that tough, no, it didn't make it firm or nothing.

Q.  Did you play rugby with any of the current players?
HENNIE OTTO:  No, not with the current ones, no. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT