UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS AT SAN ANTONIO FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 14, 2019
Jarrod Carter-McLin
Carlos Strickland II
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Army - 31, UTSA - 13   
 Q.  Jarrod, what were the biggest challenges of the triple option?  
JARROD CARTER-McLIN: Just how fast they move, man. You practice for it all week and you practice for it and you get scout team guys taking over there trying to replicate the look, and those guys do a great job, but the speed of it is so much different when you go out there, and those guys that do it year-round, it's tough to get a good look at it until you actually get it.   
 Q.  At a certain point, you guys switched to it looked like five defensive linemen a couple of drives in. Did you feel like that made a big impact?  
JARROD CARTER-McLIN: Yeah, it definitely helped us out a little bit being able to do some more things and be as physical with those linemen as we would like to be. It definitely helped us out, but unfortunately it wasn't enough.   
 Q.  Is that an offense that after a while kind of wears you down a little bit?  
JARROD CARTER-McLIN: Oh, yeah, definitely, man. Like I said, that was my first time playing a triple option, and if I had to play it again, I would, but I wouldn't hope for it, man. It's a different type of deal, now. It's different.   
I mean, it was fun and I enjoyed it, but yeah, it's definitely a different type of deal. It gives you -- you're always looking at your knees, looking in different directions, seeing where people are coming from. It's definitely tough, and it takes effect over time.   
 Q.  Was that why late in the game they kind of got going against a put a couple of drives together? Was fatigue a factor?  
JARROD CARTER-McLIN: I'm not sure about that, man. They came out and just tweaked a few things, and we didn't get a stop. We didn't get the ball on the ground when we needed to and missed tackles out on the edge. I'm not sure that's what got it going. I think it was more or less just our deal, but it wasn't fatigue. I don't think it was fatigue. I think we just didn't do what we were supposed to do.   
 Q.  Jarrod, what about their quarterback and the way he executed?  
JARROD CARTER-McLIN: Yeah, he did a great job. You can tell he's been running that for a little bit of time. He's very comfortable in it. He did a great job, and I mean, we made plays on him, and he made plays on us, but that's just a football game.   
 Q.  Carlos, what were the challenges of trying to protect against all the different blitzes they were throwing at you?  
CARLOS STRICKLAND II: It was just one of those things where we don't really see those blitzes on like a day-to-day practices and things like that, so we just kind of had to prepare for it in four days, but we just kind of came up short offensively. But we don't normally see that often, but they did a good job over there.   
 Q.  Was that the toughest part about getting the offense going?  
CARLOS STRICKLAND II: I mean, that was one of the parts, but it was a lot of different things, guys catching the ball, running the ball, so I wouldn't just pinpoint that one thing.   
 Q.  We talked about the option, that's one thing, but it seemed like they're physical on both sides of the ball. Can you talk about that?  
CARLOS STRICKLAND II: Yeah, they're a pretty physical team. You can tell they've been in the weight room, but we've been in the weight room, too. We're also physical. But it was just one of those things where we just kind of came up short. But they're definitely a pretty physical team, though.   
JARROD CARTER-McLIN: From a defensive standpoint they did a great job. They were physical. I mean, but I feel like we were just as physical, as well. So I mean, yeah, in a way they were, but I feel like we were, too, up until a point.   
 Q.  Carlos, the first drive of the second half you got something going. What were the keys to that and why couldn't you replicate that the rest of the game?  
CARLOS STRICKLAND II: Coming out of the locker room, Coach kind of lit a fire under us, kind of got us going with his halftime speech. Offensively we kind of got into a roll and did a lot of fast ball, fast paced offenses and kind of got them off balance and kind of -- they weren't able to get in their places and make their fits, so I think that was good for us offensively.   
 Q.  Carlos, you guys played a couple of pretty good teams the last couple weeks. Offensively what did you learn from those two performances? I know it wasn't what you wanted, but what do you take away from those two ballgames?  
CARLOS STRICKLAND II: You know, you go back, watch the film and just see where you messed up at as an individual because there's places everywhere around the field where we had miscues and things like that, so you've got to watch the film and try not to make those same mistakes over again.   
 Q.  Jarrod, how do you refocus and look ahead?  
JARROD CARTER-McLIN: We'll watch the film and we'll put it behind us for sure, put it in its proper place. We played well at times, and we played down at times. We'll acknowledge that, put it behind us and look forward to our first conference game because really up until this point it doesn't really matter. You can go 0-3 and still win the conference, and that was our goal at the end of the day. It was never to go undefeated. Of course that would have been nice, but our goal is to win a conference championship, go to a bowl game. So everything we want, everything we're trying to get to is still right in front of us. We'll put it in its place and move on.   
 Q.  Carlos, you guys were driving in the second half, you were down 10-7 at that point and then lost the ball on a fumble. Was that a deflating moment?  
CARLOS STRICKLAND II: Yeah, I think so, just kind of -- we had the momentum going into it, and then they kind of -- it was like a drive killer, a momentum killer for our team like all together. But we still had a chance to go back out there and score, but I think that was a critical moment, though, in the game for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT