SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 24, 2015
Lee Rinker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  9-over for the tournament, what did you think going into the week compared to how you ended the week and your overall performance?  LEE RINKER: Well, I haven't really been playing much, so I didn't really have a whole lot of expectations as far as how I would play. I played about the way I expected.  I mean, I played okay, but not great.  But I just haven't been playing enough to play a little bit better.  But the course, I don't know, as you play the course you get more used to it.  And you kind of get an idea of where -- you almost feel like, hey, you can get around it a little bit better.  Even missing shots, you kind of feel that way.  But it's great.  It's been, I mean just watching it, it's, if you're hitting some good shots, you can make some birdies and get -- but yet there's a lot of movement, you know.  I mean it's real easy to shoot 4- or 5-over.  But then you can shoot, 4- or 5-under, too.   Q.  Was there a part of the course that you thought became easier throughout the week by playing it more?  LEE RINKER: The par-5s are hard.  I only made one birdie, I birdied the very last par-5.  And to me the par-5s were kind of touchy, because number nine you can reach, but I never hit a good enough drive.  And but yet I hit it in the fairway.  And then that was kind of a tough tee shot there, too. But I don't know, they're awkward with the way they go and you're kind of hitting around them, so they're kind of a challenge.  So, normally that's where you would kind of pick up some shots and I didn't play them very well.   Q.  What part of your game do you think was your strength for this week being 9-over for what's set up as a very tough golf course?  LEE RINKER: Well, I putted pretty well.  I scrambled fairly well.  I think that I scrambled pretty well and when I did get in trouble I was able to hit good recovery shots.  I hit a lot of good recovery shots back out into play. Because that's where you can really get into trouble.  When you hit a bad shot and you get on one of the side hill lies and you could very easily then hit it in trouble.  And I was able to hit quite a few good recovery shots.   Q.  Watching it here on TV, is there stuff that you started noticing, seeing it on television, compared to actually playing it in person that was a little bit different for you?  LEE RINKER: Not really.  I mean, you watch some of the better players and you see them hit a lot of good shots and make some birdies.  You're seeing them -- there's some birdies out there, you just have to hit some really good iron shots.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT