SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 27, 2011
Lee Rinker
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How do you feel about your first rounds on this course?  
 LEE RINKER: I played pretty well today. I had, I hit a lot of good shots. I finally made a few birdies on my back, the front today. And then just -- anyway, I won't talk about 8, I hit a bad shot, but the -- anyway, no, the course is good. The course is playing really good.   
 It's soft, obviously, it's playing really long, but I think that they set it up nicely. They moved the tees up a little from probably where they would have played if it was playing fast. But it's still, it's still playing plenty long. I had to hit a lot of long clubs, even 3-woods into par-4s.   
 I hit 3-wood, 3-wood on No. 6 today. I mean, wow. But that hole you can't really, you're going to be hitting, you know, at least a 220 yard shot in there. But the course is playing really nicely. I think if you got a little bit of length it's set up to where you can shoot a good score, but you have to play really well.   
  
  Q. Sort of evaluate the way these two days went for you, you can imagine the cut's in that range where you are now, so.   
 LEE RINKER: Right. Well I felt like that, the way I played today, I made two double bogeys, which is kind of, I mean I could have very easily been, you know, even par or better out here the first couple days.   
 But that's kind of the story of my life lately. But hopefully -- it's good to get to play on the weekend and get some momentum going.  
  
  Q. When was the last time you were in a golf tournament that was like the conditions you're in?  
 LEE RINKER: Gosh, I haven't played a course this wet in a while. I mean, oh, I mean I played lift, clean and place before, but this is pretty wet. The ball's just not getting any roll whatsoever. I can't really remember.   
  
  Q. This is a position golf course, isn't it?  
 LEE RINKER: Well Muirfield would play like this sometimes. The Memorial Tournament they had for so many years that you would get -- but actually, you know, when I played here in '96 in the PGA the ball was running and it was probably not, I mean there's a few target shots, but there was places where you can kind of scoot balls in and things like that and obviously you can't do that now. It's too bad that, but that's just the time of the year kind of. It's always been a little soft this time of year.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT