CACTUS BOWL: KANSAS STATE VS UCLA
December 23, 2017
Scott Quessenberry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
SCOTT QUESSENBERRY: Everyone does their job really well.  They know their role, and they play it really well.  I think we're going to have to be on top of our game.  And we're going to have to make them match our effort instead of the other way around, because of how hard they do play.  And we know they're stingy on defense.  And they get after it.   
 Q.  How tough has it been, distractions for this team, with the coaching changes, the wildfires, Josh's status for playing --  
SCOTT QUESSENBERRY: I was just saying there's a lot of external pressure coming, looking down at this team.  Everyone wants to know Josh's decision and where Coach Fisch is going to end up, but internally we're sticking together, we're tight, and we're out here to win a championship and that's really it.   
 Q.  Does the offense change at all without Josh?  
SCOTT QUESSENBERRY: No.  Whoever is in that quarterback, we know they can make all the throws.  And Coach Fisch will call what's dialed up, and we know that whoever is at quarterback can make all the throws.   
 Q.  Talking about Josh, obviously, what kind of person is he?  
SCOTT QUESSENBERRY: On the field he's the ultimate competitor, always.  All that matters is winning and being the best he can be and making our team the best they can be.  And then off the field he's a really good dude.  He's always there if somebody needs to talk to him, he's willing to listen and he is always wanting to hang out with his teammates and really just like a class act, really, is how I would describe him.   
Me and him have built a really good relationship.  And whatever he decides, it's going to be a bummer to see him go, because if he decides to come back, I'm out of here.  And if he decides to leave, I'm out of here, too.   
But it's been a pleasure playing with him.  And obviously I wish him nothing but the best.  And I want to see him succeed at the highest level.  But like I said, class act, can't beat him.   
 Q.  How has your relationship developed?  
SCOTT QUESSENBERRY: Quarterback/center, everything we do is -- we're always together.  We watch film together.  During the week, protections, walk-through protections with him and blitzes and stuff like that.  And then just through that, kind of talk about life and I learn a lot from him.  He's a really smart guy.  He knows a lot about the outside world, as do I.   
Although our opinions might not always line up on what's going on on the outside, we have very intellectual conversations.  And I enjoy talking to him.   
 Q.  Talk politics and all that stuff?  
SCOTT QUESSENBERRY: Everything, anything you could possibly imagine.   
 Q.  Is he the type of guy that will text you in the middle of night or middle of class, hey, I saw this movie, is he that type of --  
SCOTT QUESSENBERRY: Yeah.  We'll also watch film on our own.  Then two days before the game we'll meet and we'll talk about what we saw and what we have to do and put our finishing touches on the game plan because he's so busy dialing up his film study and going over the play sheet, and I'm so busy doing the same.   
So a lot of the times we'll just kind of write down what we need to make sure we're on top of going into the game.  And that's kind of how we go about it.   
 Q.  You guys get into your conversations, what kind of debater is he?  How does he handle it with you?  
SCOTT QUESSENBERRY: He's kind of pushy.  He kind of sticks his opinion there, but I'm kind of the same way.  So I'll stick mine right back.   
There's not a lot of leeway when we talk.  So we believe in what we believe in.  And it doesn't hinder our friendship or anything.  Like we're great friends and we'll be great friends going forward.  So it's a lot of fun just hanging around him and being around him and just talking to him.   
 Q.  What's the most heated discussion between you two?  
SCOTT QUESSENBERRY: I'm a political science major and he's econ.  So we -- and then two kids that graduated last year, Dylan Luther and Adam Searl, they're two of my good buddies, Josh's roommates.   
I would always be over there studying with them because they're both political science majors too.  We would kind of spark up debates.  And he would come out of his room, hear it, and it would be kind of like two versus two or three versus one, and so those get pretty heated, just not so much of like one or the other, like one side or the other, but just because there's so much going on right now, it's so fun to talk about.  So those get pretty heated.   
 Q.  What's he like in the huddle?  
SCOTT QUESSENBERRY: Poised, confident.  And you know that when he gets to the line of scrimmage, he'll do the right thing and make all the throws.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT