NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
June 4, 2011
Nathan Horton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Nathan Horton.   
  
  Q. Ready to play a hockey game finally?   
 NATHAN HORTON: Seems like it's been a little bit. Hope to regroup and feel better about ourselves.  
  
  Q. How anxious are you to get out there, try to get a win?   
 NATHAN HORTON: I think everyone is very anxious, excited to get back at it. It's been a long two days. We obviously need to be better. We know we can. There's some stuff that we talked about.   
  
  Q. What would you like to be better at, come at harder in Game 2?   
 NATHAN HORTON: I think getting to the net. We put some shots on Roberto, but he's going to stop it when he can see. We have guys there, that's what we want, we want traffic, get in his vision a little bit.   
  
  Q. You kind of take heart something you said after Game 1 against Montréal, Tampa, it's something you've been able to correct as series have gone on?   
 NATHAN HORTON: Maybe it's just that first game, trying to find their tendencies, how everyone plays, the nerves, all that stuff. Obviously, you don't want to take that first one off. We don't want to lose it. But we get a sense of how they play just playing against them. It should be a better game.   
  
  Q. Talk about Roberto, the fact you need to be around him a little bit more. If you look at the third period, it was too easy for him at that time?   
 NATHAN HORTON: Yeah, I mean, I think so. I think with any great goaltender, you want to make their life as hard as possible. That means getting in front of his view, being in front of him, just standing there and whacking away. Like I said all along, that's how you're going to score on good goaltenders.   
 He's no different. He's a great goaltender. That's the only way we're going to score.  
  
  Q. Knowing how hard it is to fight out of an 0-2 hole, how critical does that make tonight?  
 NATHAN HORTON: It's huge. We want to go back home with a split. It's a big game for us. We need to get on the board obviously and feel good about ourselves again.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT