NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: BRUINS v CANUCKS
May 31, 2011
Nathan Horton
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR: Questions for Nathan Horton.   
  
  Q. Ready for the Stanley Cup final now?  
 NATHAN HORTON: Definitely. It feels like it's taken forever to get to play the games. It's a big day. Obviously you can tell that this is definitely the Stanley Cup finals.   
  
  Q. What do you have to do to beat the Vancouver Canucks?   
 NATHAN HORTON: I think we all know they have a lot of skill. We're going to have to stay out of the box, be disciplined, play the way we've been playing.   
 I think if we don't play hard every night, if we don't play our A game, it's definitely going to be tough.   
  
  Q. The lack of success on your power-play bother you at all?  
 NATHAN HORTON: I mean, you do need a power-play. That's how you score a lot of goals. We haven't fared too well in it so far. It's been talked about a lot. It's definitely something we need to improve on and hopefully be better on in the series.   
  
  Q. (Question regarding body clock adjustments.)   
 NATHAN HORTON: A lot of guys were up a little bit early. Tried to stay up as late as we could last night. Tough with a long flight. A lot of guys slept on the flight. Just getting used to it. We got here a day early.   
 I think not only that, everyone's excited to be here, to be in the Stanley Cup. A lot of guys wait a long time for this. You're not going to get much sleep through the next couple weeks anyways.   
  
  Q. Talk about being in your first Stanley Cup final.   
 NATHAN HORTON: Couldn't have been any better. I had an unbelievable year with my teammates. It's been a lot of fun. To be in the spot we are in now, it's something that you do dream of.   
 There's 28 teams that want to be in our positions. I watch it, but it's definitely nicer to be playing.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 NATHAN HORTON: Well, I mean, even if I did have something on the inside, I wouldn't tell him.   
 He's a great goaltender. As any good goaltender, you need traffic. That's how you're going to score most times. If he sees, good goalies stop it. Same with him. He's been great for a very long time. He's a top goaltender.   
  
  Q. Too much emphasis put on Game 1 sometimes?  
 NATHAN HORTON: I mean, especially being here, you want to win every game, you want to play as hard as you can every game. That's why it's a seven-game series. If you do have one off night, which you don't want to, you hope not, but you always get back on it and you have a chance to regroup and get the momentum again.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 NATHAN HORTON: Well, I mean, I think obviously they're the best team in the NHL. They proved it through the regular season. I think they have a mix of everything: scoring, grit. For us, we got to play them one time. We got a little taste of it.   
 It's hard to compare them to other teams because they're a good team. They have a lot of talent. Like I said, we have to be prepared to work real hard and play hard against them because you don't want to give them any easy opportunities to score.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 NATHAN HORTON: It's been fun. My two line mates that I've been playing with, Krejci and Lucic, unbelievable players, great play-makers. They do it all. Everyone brings something a little bit different. These two guys, I can't say enough about. Obviously they help our team to get to where we want to be.   
  
  Q. How do you think you'll approach it, like you did Tampa Bay?  
 NATHAN HORTON: You don't want to open up too much with this team. They're pretty talented. You want to be patient, play smart, get pucks in deep, grind it out that way. Just don't turn the puck over, don't give them too much. I think that's what we want to do.   
   
    
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT