PLAYSTATION FIESTA BOWL: OHIO STATE VS CLEMSON
December 28, 2016
Sam Hubbard
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SAM HUBBARD: I like being out here.  I've got a lot of family out here and we're happy to be here.
Q. Is there any added significance for your guys, sense to uphold the tradition of success?
SAM HUBBARD: I mean, we're more focused on getting to the National Championship.  Of course we always want to win, but we've had a lot of experience out here.  I think that's going to help us just from past experiences.
Q. Knowing how close you were last year, though, to playing in the playoffs, was it difficult to watch the championship game being played out here last year considering you played in the Fiesta Bowl just a couple days before?
SAM HUBBARD: Yeah, it was tough, especially when we thought we should be there.  And that's what I had in my mind all offseason, spring ball and why I want to get back out here so bad.  And I'm glad we're here.
Q. What do you see in a guy like Deshaun Watson, his athleticism, and that offense that they run?  And have you seen any teams this year in the Big Ten or Oklahoma similar?
SAM HUBBARD: Yeah, he does a great job of extending plays and controlling the game.  They've got a dynamic offense and a lot of weapons.  And he reminds me of J.T. a lot with how he avoids pressure and controls the game.
But we've seen a lot of great quarterbacks this year, and I think he's definitely one of the better ones.  And we've got a challenge to stop them and stop the whole offense.
Q. Coach Meyer said, four days, you're not strong.  And he's been saying that for 20 days now.  What is your personal reaction to that?  Does it get repetitive or does it actually continue to motivate you through time?
SAM HUBBARD: I think it's just a daily reminder that we've got to be nine strong and just to focus on my unit and myself to be ready to play the game and take advantage of every opportunity to prepare.  And the most prepared team is going to win.  So I like it as a daily reminder.  But it does get repetitive, though.
Q. Are you guys doing anything particularly different specifically to prepare for Deshaun?
SAM HUBBARD: We've had I think over 700-something snaps from Clemson from our scout team this bowl season.  So we've had a lot of preparation.  We've had a lot of different looks.  We've had different scout teams, quarterbacks.
We've had scrambling guys come in there help us out.  Eric Glover-Williams.  We've had Dwayne Haskins come in there and throw the ball all over the place.
We've done a lot of things and we're prepared for a lot of stuff.  And I think that these last two days we'll wrap it up and be ready.
Q. Brian Hartline too?
SAM HUBBARD: That was pretty cool.  He was giving more work to the corners than me.  But he was doing a good job.  Glad to be out there helping us out.  We had some other guys, Zach Boren and Bobby Carpenter out there helping us too.
Q. Why is it important to get those different looks, to have different guys?
SAM HUBBARD: Just because he can do a lot of things.  And we don't have guys that can do all this stuff that he can do.  And we want to see it all.  And just being prepared for all that.
You just gotta do it in practice be able to do it in the game.  You're not just going to show up on Saturday and be able to do it.
Q. How is having a month to prepare for a team, how has that helped you -- of course it's going to help you but can you overthink, overknow, over and over and over again, of course -- they've had time to prepare for you and they're going to bring their A game?
SAM HUBBARD: Yeah, I think that we do -- at Ohio State Coach Meyer and his staff have a really -- we do it the same every year.  We prepare for bowl games the same way.  They've been very successful.
We break it down into three phases.  The first is fundamentals.  The second is game plan.  And the third is finishing up the final touches.
And it really keeps you focused on one thing at a time and doesn't put too much pressure on you for the game.  So I think we do a good job with our bowl prep.  And I feel like I'm ready to go.  Not going to overthink it.
Q. Looking at Watson, what jumps out at you.  Obviously runner-up in the Heisman.  He has thrown 15 picks.  He's been sacked and what do you see when you see this kid?
SAM HUBBARD: I see a competitor, very mobile.  Great accuracy.  Great arm.  And great ability to extend plays with weapons all over.  So we've got our hands all over.
They're very similar to our offense and our scheme and what they do, and we see it every day in practice and we've got some stuff ready for them.  So we'll be ready on Saturday.
Q. What's it like playing in front of guys (indiscernible) Latimores?  And you've seen what they've done with the interceptions.  Being up front and trying to get pressure on the quarterback, trying to get him uncomfortable, knowing that those guys back there can pick him off, what's that like?  How much of a motivation?
SAM HUBBARD: It gives you a lot more confidence, I feel like, to know that they're behind you.  And just we pressure them, they pick them off.  So that's what we do.  It all ties in together.  I think that having a great secondary comes from having a great "D" line and a great "D" line comes from having a great secondary.
So the fact they're playing really well helps our game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT