U.S. SENIOR OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 8, 2007
Danny Green
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  DANNY GREEN: The course beat me up, cut me up.   
  
  Q.  Mission accomplished in terms of being low Am, at least tied for it, but certainly not the back nine that you hoped for.   
   DANNY GREEN: No, I got -- actually got a little tired out there today. It was hot and humid and the hills; it's been a long week. I played every day. And I wasn't playing as good because when you're not playing as good you get a little tired.   



 I saw what I needed to do at the turn, and I knew I needed to shoot 76 or better to be low Am by myself, but then they will give both exceptions to George and me.  The double didn't really hurt me on 18, just helped George out a little bit.  So that's okay.   
  
  Q.  He was up here watching you.   
 DANNY GREEN:  I'm sure he was.   
 (Laughter.)   
  
  Q.  What did he share?  He was waiting for you at the top of the hill.  What did he say?   
   DANNY GREEN: Oh, he just said good playing this week and he didn't say much. I was going to sign my card, and I'm sure he was watching and excited that I made double, so that's okay. We both get in the Senior Open next year and both get in the U.S. Amateur this year.   
  
  Q.  Go through what -- and you have it all laid out.  You got the U.S. Amateur, you got the Senior Open next year?   
   DANNY GREEN: I guess that's about it. I guess that's the two exemptions. Paul Simson was telling me I may get in the British Senior Open in a couple weeks, but that's something I have to inquire about. Call them and -- we'll get home tomorrow and I'll either mail them or call them and find out about that. It's at Muirfield, so...   
  
  Q.  What's the rest of your schedule like?   
   DANNY GREEN: I'm going home this next week to Memphis and playing in my State Match Play at Colonial Country Club. And then I've got a week off and the Porter Cup is the following week, if I don't go to Muirfield. Porter Cup, and then probably another week off, and then my State Amateur, and then I leave the last day of my State Amateur -- I'll have to get on a flight that night out of Nashville to go to San Francisco to Olympic for the U.S. Amateur.   
  
  Q.  How would you assess your week?  You had two great, two good rounds in the middle, couple of 72s?   
   DANNY GREEN: Well, I started off good the first day and then didn't play quite so well the next morning when we had to come back and finish. I made a bogey early and then a birdie to get it back and I turned around and doubled 7 and bogeyed 9. I was even par or under par all day in that round pretty much and shot a 75.   



 Then the first five holes of the second round, that after we finished up the first round, I was 3-over through five.  And then played started playing a lot better.  Played the last 13 holes 3 under to get back to 72.   
 And then yesterday I played pretty solid all day.  I didn't, playing with David Eger that was a lot of fun.  David and I were on the Walker Cup team together in 2001, have been good friends and I keep in touch with him quite often and his senior golf.   
 And it was fun to play with David.  I knew it was going to be a good pairing for me and David was playing well and making a lot of birdies, so that's always helpful in the group.   
 And I had it under par most of the day.  Well, no, I wasn't, I got off to a bogey, birdie, bogey, bogey, actually, I was two over through four.  And then made some, started making some birdies and actually got it to 1-under before I bogeyed 17.  So, but I'm happy with the week.   
 I mean, my goal here was obviously to make the cut and if there was any other amateurs to make the cut, then beat all the amateurs to get my exemptions to Olympic this summer, without having to go back into St. Louis to qualify from the Porter Cup and then obviously don't have to.   
 I mean this is a hard championship to qualify for.  We had 73 people in Nashville for two spots.  I mean, it's just a crap shoot, 18 holes.  So this is good.  I enjoy playing USGA championships, I played in close to 50 of them now, so I'll add two more to the list now, the U.S. Amateur this year and Senior Open next year.   
  
  Q.  If I know you and George well, I mean you just turned 50, but just because that's on the paper, you probably wouldn't admit it because, I don't think you're going to concede anything when you get to the U.S. Amateur either, it's not your style.   
   DANNY GREEN: No, but I mean Olympic -- I never played there, but Olympic's a golf course I think that the Mid-Ams can compete on, from what I hear. Although I've never been there.   



 But on most of the amateur courses these days, the kids have a big advantages.  I mean it's, they hit the ball so far and the golf ball doesn't curve enough any more, they don't hit it out of play enough like they used to.   
  
  Q.  But that gives you more incentive to play well, right?   
   DANNY GREEN: Well, sure, I'm going to try hard as I can every time I'm over a golf shot. That's just me, I'm a competitive person. And if I make match play anything can happen when you're looking a guy in the eye.   



 I had my share of success and I had my downfalls, but I can't win it if I'm not there, so I'll be there so I'll have a chance.   
  
  Q.  They had a couple of your shots, the great shot in on 17, they had it on network, so the whole United States got to see that grooved swing?   
   DANNY GREEN: That Danny Green swing, right? Well, I played 17 well this week. I played pretty good overall. When I played here the first day in the wind howling out of the south, southeast, if you would have told me I could have shot 8-over for the tournament, because of course we did have a couple of pretty good days without the wind, but 8-over would have been good. I thought 2-over a day would have been real good scores. So that's what it averaged out to be.   



 It's just that I was disappointed in it at the end and disappointed in my finish, but like I said, it didn't cost me, it helped George out, so that's fine.   
  
  Q.  Can you elaborate about the blood on the shirt and everything?   
   DANNY GREEN: Yeah, I've been out in the sun all week and my lip got sunburned. And I get little blood blisters on my lip. And I don't know, it started bleeding, I was getting ready to go to the first tee and it started bleeding real bad. I don't know whether I ticked it with a water bottle or what. But I had to go in the locker room and get it stopped before I went to the first tee. I thought I had it stopped and all of a sudden I get on the 6th green and of course you can taste it and it starts dripping all over me. And the 6th green is full of blood. I couldn't hardly, I couldn't get it stopped.   



 And I carried a bloody towel around with ice in it.  Everywhere -- I left, I left it, that's what jinxed me.  I made double and I didn't want to walk up through there.  I should have kept carrying it in my hand.  I kept carrying it around all day long.     
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT