UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 25, 2017
Nyles Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Wonder if you could talk about Te'von Coney and just the impact that he had filling in for you guys defensively on Saturday night.
NYLES MORGAN: Te'von had a great impact.  Led the team in tackles, (indiscernible) and just out of the gate, you know, he had a sack, forced fumble, fumble recovery, all in one play.  And he really just set the tone for the entire game.
Q. From your point of view, after the incident that he was involved with last year, just the strides that he's been able to make since then and how proud you are of him to be able to overcome that?
NYLES MORGAN: I would say that I'm very proud of Te'von.  He's came a long way, and since the incident, you know, he's been steadily been trying to get better and to mature and learn and grow.
Q. Now kind of getting to the game aspect of it against this Wolfpack team, a team that doesn't turn the football over.  You guys harp on turning the football over.  How forward of a matchup are you looking just from that aspect of it?
NYLES MORGAN: Just from that aspect, I'm very excited.  I feel every great competitor wants to be challenged.  So this will be a perfect challenge for us.
Q. We were talking with Drue about the strides Brandon Wimbush has been making in the two-minute drill throughout practice, throughout the season.  Obviously you guys haven't had many opportunities to see that in games because it hasn't really been close except for one game.  Maybe you're not eager to be playing close games at all, but are you guys kind of excited to see that once the offense gets in that situation, kind of excited to see it translate into a game format?
NYLES MORGAN: Yes, it's like a double-edged sword, because we want to win.  But it's always good to see our offense competing, especially Brandon, just see him throw the ball around with confidence and things like that.  So either way it's kind of a win-win for us.
Q. But you obviously don't like him beating you in any of those drills, I'm assuming?
NYLES MORGAN: I mean, no.  But, yeah.
Q. Nyles, Drue was talking about all the motions that NC State has to offer.  I don't know how much of that you've seen on film.  But how do you guys deal with that?
NYLES MORGAN: With the emotion?  We just move with it.
Q. Just move quickly?
NYLES MORGAN: With it.
Q. Move with it.  Because you can't react to everything because you would be switching back and forth.
NYLES MORGAN: No, you can.  Just he moves, you move with him.
Q. Simple as that.  All right.  I'll keep an eye on that on Saturday.  How would you describe NC State's offense?  Does it compare to any that you've played against previously?
NYLES MORGAN: I would say that they're kind of like our offense.  Like our offense has like a lot of motion, a lot of shifts.  There's things we have seen before.  We're not just -- not not accustomed to it.  We had it like all summer with Chip Long and now he runs things.
All the motions, all the shifts.  We'll have an answer for everything that they have.
Q. Have you faced a running back as fast or faster than Hines for NC State?
NYLES MORGAN: Is it because of the whole track thing going on?
Q. No, it's because he's really fast and you can see it on film.
NYLES MORGAN: To me everybody is kind of really fast.  Like Nick Chubb he's fast.  Sony, he's fast.  No. 3 for Michigan State, he was pretty fast.  Everybody is kind of fast to me.  I just gotta catch you.
Q. I know you guys were pretty confident in what you guys could achieve before the season.  But to be at this point, seeing what you guys are achieving as kind of like that validation of what you said before, how has that grown the confidence in this team?
NYLES MORGAN: It's a great feeling to know that everything you've been working for is coming to fruition.  And it's like you want more of it.  You want everything to keep working.  So it makes you just want to practice and compete and lift weights and do everything that much harder.
Q. Can you put in perspective the feeling, the mood around the team now versus maybe this time last year?
NYLES MORGAN: I would say now guys are it's like they're hungry.  It's like they keep getting a taste every game but they want more and more.  And that's what we need.
Q. What was it like at this point last year?
NYLES MORGAN: I would say last year it was hard, you know.  Guys obviously wanted to fight.  Guys obviously wanted to compete.  But I would say it was a little more frustration.
Q. And then obviously you guys got more students, classmates talking to you about what you're achieving, maybe more family and friends texting you.  How do you keep that same mindset that you've had all season long and not let that stuff become a distraction?
NYLES MORGAN: You just block it out as you walk into this building and you block it out as you're walking to that stadium, and you block it out as you walk on to that field.
Q. You were very vocal on social media since January about Notre Dame is back.  You had this confidence it seemed like throughout this entire process.  I'm wondering what was it in January and March and April seeing this, what was it then that made you so confident that you'd be at this point right now?
NYLES MORGAN: Because either the things that we were doing, either everyone else was already doing that and we just kind of missed out, or the things that Coach Kelly had brung to us was so, I guess, new and over the top compared to what we've been doing, that it was no way that we could have any other result.
Q. I guess this was your expectation.  Do you feel everyone else is kind of coming around to it right now what you already expected?
NYLES MORGAN: Who is everybody?  Like you or --
Q. Outside the program.
NYLES MORGAN: I'm not here to talk about anybody or anything outside of the program.  I don't know.  It doesn't really concern me.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT