UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 27, 2017
Nyles Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I know you guys try to treat every game the same and I understand where you're coming from with that, but when you go to Michigan State and play a game like that against a physical program and do a pretty good job of hammering them over 60 minutes, is that something you feel that you guys can take and carry with you moving forward?
NYLES MORGAN: Definitely.  You know, I don't want to say that that was a statement game, but obviously it was one of our bigger games, and you know, it kind of set the tone for what we have to continue to keep doing, whether it's Miami of Ohio, North Carolina, USC, that sets the standard forward for what is yet to come.
Q. And leading into that because Coach Kelly talked this week about what your mission is and how you guys want to be able to and should be able to avoid letdowns because of your commitment to the mission and the cause, but how difficult is that when you invest as much emotion and energy into a game as you did last Saturday, and really three straight very physical opponents in Georgia, BC and Michigan State?
NYLES MORGAN: I mean, it's not hard at all because just, you know, all the hard work we put in this summer and for the guys who were here last year and this spring, that's not for nothing.  We're doing it to win, and that's the mission.
Q. What assistant coach or coaches recruited you here to Notre Dame?  Who were the most prominent ones?  Who were you involved with most during that process?
NYLES MORGAN: That was like four years ago.  It was Chuck Martin, Coach Kelly, Coach Diaco, Coach VanGorder, Coach Elliott, rest in peace.  I love coach Elliott, he's my guy.
Q. A lot of guys have said that.
NYLES MORGAN: Yeah, he was the best.
Q. Any Coach Martin stories from that experience?
NYLES MORGAN: I liked Coach Martin a lot because he's actually from like the same area I was.  He went to one of my rival schools, who we beat on all the time.  But yeah, I like Coach Martin.  He's a good guy.
Q. Why did Coach Elliott make such an impression on you?
NYLES MORGAN: He was just so genuine with everything, you know.  He kind of took things out of more of a -- well, more of -- not out of a football perspective but more of a -- how do I explain it?  Like he understood that life is more than just football, as well, and he wasn't just a coach, he was a great mentor, a great person, and he was a great person just to learn from.  He had a lot of wisdom, you know, and I always came to him when he was here, like wherever he was, I was like, any issue or anything wrong in my life going on, I could count on Coach Elliott to be there for me.
Q. Nyles, going back this year you've had great success and the defense has had great success making turnovers, and going back to last year, what little things are you doing and is the defense doing do you think that's helped make the change?
NYLES MORGAN: You know, Coach Elko is really big on turnovers, and he makes sure that we feel the same way about it, so you know, just putting that implication of every day in practice getting the ball out, punching, stripping.  We work these mechanics every single day, so you know, it makes sense that it translates over to the field it you work it every single day.  It's kind of like walking.  You walk every day, you just learn how to walk.
Q. What is Shaun Crawford like?  What's his personality like?
NYLES MORGAN: I love Shaun, because like Shaun is always himself.  Shaun is a guy who he brings great energy to this team and to this defense because in my eyes, everything he does is pure.  He's not faking it.  He's always himself, and especially on that field, you know, Sean brings -- Sean gives me energy, and I just give it back to him, and if he has enough energy, I'll just give it to somebody else.  He's one of -- I look at Sean as a leader on the team, despite what anybody might say.  He's somebody that motivates others, and if you can do that, then you're somebody of great value.
Q. Obviously we've seen a lot of him the last couple games; where have you seen him show just the most improvement having obviously missed the last couple of years?
NYLES MORGAN: I would say most improvement would be since the minute he got on the field.  I mean, for me, you know, I've watched Shaun's process since he's got here, and he's always had that fire and ambition.  He's been through a couple challenges, but when he touches that field, he -- like I say, ignites everyone else around him, and it's through his play making ability and through his energy and enthusiasm.
Q. What do you remember about what Shaun going through not only one recovery from a significant injury but two, and what do you remember about him during that process?  How much was he around?  I know he was around, but just the process that he went through to get back to this point.
NYLES MORGAN: Shaun was here every day before anyone else, I think.  Every time I got to Gug, Shaun was already in the training room getting treatment.  Shaun was always after practice or after lift or anything we had going on, he was out there getting treatment.  He's so dedicated to getting back at it without even saying a word.  He's not a guy who tells you -- who does the talking or even has to talk.  He shows it through who he is as a person, and him coming back from two injuries like that, he's still fighting what he does.  If that doesn't motivate you, then I don't know what else would.
Q. What do you see from the Miami quarterback that makes him such a threat?
NYLES MORGAN: I think anybody who plays Division I football is a threat.  We don't take anybody lightly.  We're not that team that thinks, oh, yeah, he's okay.  We take everybody seriously.  He's very accurate.  He's very athletic, as well, and he's, I'll say, one of the better players on their team from an offensive standpoint.
Q. They like to control the possessions; how critical is it for you guys as a defense to obviously try to limit their time of possession, being that that's one of their biggest strengths?
NYLES MORGAN: Just like every other team, the faster the offense has the ball, you know, the less your defense is tired on the field and also the less that the offense is on the field since they're the ones usually scoring all the points.  The more that they're not on the field, the better for this team.
Q. Obviously you guys have done an incredible job with the turnovers.  What else about the defense do you think has -- I don't want to say improved, but what's the biggest steps the defense has taken since the beginning of the year do you feel to be at the point where you guys are at right now?
NYLES MORGAN: Four games in, you know, I'll say the biggest steps I've seen is just consistency.  Guys are game in and game out pretty much reenacting the same thing as last game.  And it's not perfect, it's football, things happen, whatever.  But overall guys are really honed into what they need to be doing.
Q. Does that improve the confidence each week when you see that?
NYLES MORGAN: Yes.
Q. When you look at the team stats, three linebackers and a rover are the leading tacklers right now.  What does that say about the kind of job the defensive line is doing in front of you guys right now?
NYLES MORGAN: Really?  I didn't know that.  We don't really pay attention to stats too much.  It's all about just really doing your job.  Like in my eyes, stats don't really matter as much to me.  Just for me personally I'm trying to do the best I can, but saying that, D-line is doing a heck of a job because the biggest thing for linebackers is when those guys come up to you too quick or guys getting not back into you, you can't get a good read, and D-line is doing an excellent job, like excellent job.  If there are any mistakes, the three linebackers are there to clean it up.  But they're doing an amazing job.
Q. And also just in times of Julian Okwara getting more and more playing time, how is his skill set and how important is he to the defense?
NYLES MORGAN: As far as Julian, Julian is excelling, in my opinion, pretty quickly.  He's catching on to things.  The game seems like it's getting easier for him, and he has the skill set to be a really great pass rusher, and he's doing that.  Wasn't he the first guy to get a sack; is that right?  You guys would know.  Julian is doing a heck of a job, as well.  He's really come along, and I see his role growing more and more every game.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT