NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 17, 2012
Edward Ruth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  174-lb Champion

THE MODERATOR:   Questions? 

Q.   The feeling of winning your first national championship meet your expectations?
EDWARD RUTH:   It definitely does.   You go out there.   Unbelievable feeling, especially we are on the mat and you have the title within your grasp, it's amazing.

Q.   Ed, you were the third one to finish off the national title today.   Three undefeated wrestlers for your team now.   What does that mean for you? 
EDWARD RUTH:   We're doing the right things in the room.   Whatever we're doing, I'm going to try to keep the same routine.   I really want the same results. 

Q.   Ed, the whole wrestling community knows the crossface cradle is coming.   What's your key to the move and why can't anybody stop it? 
EDWARD RUTH:   It's a move that I'm so confident in, so comfortable with doing, and every time I go out on the mat and I know they're looking to fight that, and it got to a point where a lot of people, they fear the crossface cradle.   And it's one of those moves they don't know how to react.   Especially when you play normal, and then they feel how tight it is, it's just like it comes as a surprise to them.   And it's just hard for them to defend against it.

Q.   Last year you run into this guy in the tournament and it didn't go the way you wanted.   Was that something in your mind, and did you have a little bit of extra incentive to give your best to tell people know where you are in relation to this opponent?
EDWARD RUTH:   Oh, definitely.   I think about it last year.   I think about it this year.   I'm like, wow, we are two completely different wrestlers compared from last year to this year.
And that whole situation, I didn't really look at it too much.   The only thing that made me look at it much was the fans, what the people were saying on the Internet.   And it's just getting me a big drive just to prove them wrong.

Q.   Talk about watching your two teammates, Frank and David, win, if you could, and what that did for your motivation. 
EDWARD RUTH:   Watching them win the way they did, seeing how they put their blood, sweat and tears into it, it's just like‑‑ it really just gets the momentum going, and it's just like you can really just feed off the last guy who just wrestled before you. 
And seeing David go out there and getting the tech, I just really fed off of that.   Wow, he's going out there, he did a great job.   And I wanted to emulate that.

Q.   Last night we talked about your journey from Harrisburg to Blair, to Penn State.   How different is this Ed Ruth compared to the one that left Hannah whenever it was?
EDWARD RUTH:   A lot different.   I've learned a lot of different things along the way.   And they all just create the wrestler you see before you today.   And the journey, I'm glad I took it.

Q.   How much did Cael Sanderson‑‑ we talked about it last night, him allowing you to be yourself.   If you didn't have Cael Sanderson as the head coach there, would you still have the success you have now?
EDWARD RUTH:   Kind of hard to say, because a wrestler doesn't decide to be good just by himself.   He needs people behind him to support him.   And I'm glad that it's him.
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT