NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 16, 2012
Edward Ruth
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Ed.   
   
 Q.   Why is that cradle so effective?   
EDWARD RUTH:   It's something I've been doing for years now.   The move I'm most comfortable with.   Very confident in the strength of my arms.   Every time I go out there, if I feel it, I'm going to shoot right for it.   
   
 Q.   You have Amuchasteg in the finals.   What are you going to do tomorrow night?  
EDWARD RUTH:   Uhm, same thing as I did today.   When I went out, I just felt comfortable.   I felt like everything was right there, everything that I needed.   
Like tomorrow, next match, when I go out there, I'm just going to make sure I feel comfortable and wrestle a good match.  
   
 Q.   Can you take us back to last year when you wrestled him.   I believe you got hurt in that match, is that right?  
EDWARD RUTH:   Yeah.   I'm one of those people that I don't like to talk about things, I like to do things.   A lot of people are saying that I was hurt, but then I came back and wrestled fine.   
Hey, all I got to do is prove it to them.   
   
 Q.   How much better are you this year now that you've gone through another full season in college?   How much do you feel you've improved?   How much has to do with your coaches and teammates?  
EDWARD RUTH:   A whole lot has to do with my teammates and coaches.   I mean, I got a good coaching staff, got the teammates.   Every day that we come in, we're all working hard, feeding off of each other.   
It's like we're all just ricocheting off each other, reaching new heights.   Nobody is doing it by themselves.   We're doing it together.   
   
 Q.   The fact that you have green and black hair, you have a personality and style that doesn't seem to fit the other Penn State guys.   
EDWARD RUTH:   The green and black, means I'm a fan of the Green Lantern.   No (laughter).  
When I first dyed it, it was teal.   It started coming off and started to turn green.   It's a big deal that Cayle lets me wrestle the way I wrestle.   He's not trying to stop me from doing something.   He helps me, guides along, along with Coach Casey and Cody (phonetic).   I wrestled with all of those guys.   They're really helping me develop my style in terms of me, not trying to change me, not trying to force me into a cookie‑cutter mold.   
   
 Q.   Does he allow your personality to come out, too?  
EDWARD RUTH:   He definitely does.   When you're in the Penn State wrestling room, it's definitely a lighter atmosphere.   People are bouncing around.   We're playing with balls, do anything to start breaking a sweat, not doing just like the same mundane thing day in, day out.   
It changes.   
   
 Q.   When you were at high school in Pennsylvania, you seemed to run into some of the studs and you were close to making the finals.   Now you're in college, you've done that.   With one more match to go, how have you progressed as a person since you were in Pennsylvania and now at Penn State?   
EDWARD RUTH:   It's been a steady progression.   You know, when I left Susquehanna, went to Blair, seemed like everything took off from there.   Kind of fed into my college career and everything.   Felt like I had a lot of things I needed to be a college wrestler.   I just kept building off of that.   
   
 Q.   With everything that Penn State and the community has gone through this year with Joe Paterno, et cetera, how important is it for you guys to bring home this national title as a team and have as many individual title‑ists as well?  
EDWARD RUTH:   It would definitely help with the publicity because we're having bad publicity attracted to us lately.   A lot of people are saying, like, crazy things.   You wouldn't be the jokes.   They're like rude.   Sometimes you just want to say.   
The fact we're out here doing this, it's a good things.   I'm so proud to be a part of Penn State.   The thing what we're doing out here, what we're going to be doing tomorrow, it's a big deal to see we can still do this, we can still stay focused.   
THE MODERATOR:   Good luck tomorrow.   
EDWARD RUTH:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT