NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIPS
March 23, 2013
Chris Perry
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Our national champion is Chris Perry at 174 pounds.   Chris, could you start talking about that ride in overtime and how you rode him out. 
CHRIS PERRY:   It was tough.   I went to his ankles a couple of times.   We worked on going to his ankles instead of jumping on the top, which I've done a couple times this year, cost me in National Duals. 
But I didn't give up that escape when I went to his ankle that one time.   I knew after I kept going ankle he was thinking I was going ankle again.   If guys are waiting on that, it's hard to do it because I seem to fall over the top like I did the first time when I tried to ride him. 
I went to his ankle twice in a row.   He was thinking ankle again, and it worked perfect.   He went straight up, and I pulled him straight back.   I got both legs, and I knew I was setting fine. 
It took a lot out of him.   After I got the legs in, I felt him just go straight to his belly.   Obviously, a great opponent.   Athletic, strong.   Yeah. 
THE MODERATOR:   Questions for our national champion.

Q.   Obviously, we've seen on your face right now, just talk about the emotions right now of winning this. 
CHRIS PERRY:   It's unexplainable.   Most of the emotions are just out of work and the people I do it for, my family and my coaches, and there's so many people I have in my life that I just want to win for. 
As great as winning for myself, it's just the people who helped me through it.   I have so many great people, and it's just undescribable.   I can't‑‑ it's almost a shell shock moment when you're up there.   You don't even know what to do.   When you win, you just kind of fall apart, like everything is like a big weight is off your shoulder. 
Just a relief.   You don't even know what you're doing, just kind of like you're better off the match.

Q.   Chris, were you here this morning when your teammates got you guys within striking distance, or were you watching it? 
CHRIS PERRY:   I was here.   I wasn't worried about getting rest.   I got a rest for seven minutes, like I did tonight.   I was here for my team.   They were here for me last year.   On the back side, we made a push.   I'm hoping to keep an eye on all these matches. 
It added a little more pressure to Penn State, I think, tonight.   I don't think‑‑ I feel like Brad normally shoots more than he did tonight.   They've been wrestling with not as much pressure because they've had the team score so far ahead.   Just there's no one that‑‑ they thought they had it won, but I thought tonight it helped.   We put a little pressure on them and made them think about the team score as well as the final.   We've got nothing to lose.   We can go out and win it in one match. 
But it's a long way to go still.   We need to move forward with all of our wins.

Q.   Chris, I know over the years people asked you about maybe there being pressure from being from such a successful wrestling family.   My question is what are the positive things about having so many people in your family that have done so much in the sport of wrestling and have been around with you throughout your life? 
CHRIS PERRY:   I mean, what else could you ask for really than to be a wrestler?   You've got the greatest coaches and wrestlers in the world sitting there in your living room. 
My uncle John, I mean, the best thing I've ever done is go to Oklahoma State and have him as my coach.   He's there for me no matter what.   The guy, he gives me the extra attention, but it's in a different way.   People don't see it, but I feel it, and I feel his presence.   When he's around me, I just feel that winner's mentality all the time. 
Being around our family, we don't accept second.   I was pretty excited yesterday making the finals, but I knew, if I lost, it was a failure.   In our family, we don't accept second.   We don't sleep if we get second.   That's what's great about our family.   We don't. 
Like my Uncle John said, his brother gave him a hug after he made the finals of the world championships, and he told him to get off of him because he's got one more match to go.   We're not satisfied with that.
THE MODERATOR:   All right.   Thank you, Chris.   Congratulations. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT