ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 15, 2020
Gemma Dryburgh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Another good round today, still in really good position on the leaderboard.  Talk about your round?
GEMMA DRYBURGH:   Yeah, a played really well today, hit it much better than yesterday.  Didn't really get much reward for it, but yeah, just had a couple bad shots, and those turned into a double and a bogey, and apart from that played really well, so it was good.
Q. Any particular highlights in your round?
GEMMA DRYBURGH:   I had my only birdie on 14, so that was nice, but yeah, I had to hit quite a few good shots.  Hit a good shot into 17, but yeah, it's quite difficult to get close to some of the pins because there's some downslopes at front the greens and stuff, but hopefully make some more birdies tomorrow.
Q. Georgia was saying earlier she felt the pin positives are tough.  Are you feeling the same?
GEMMA DRYBURGH:   Yeah, they have been really tough, especially yesterday, tucking them behind slopes and at the front of the greens, it's quite difficult, especially if it downwind to get close and the greens are much firmer this year.  It's quite difficult to get close to some of them.
I think they moved quite a few tees up last year and they haven't really done that this year.  They moved up 13 which is a drivable par 4 now which is quite fun.  Yeah, it's playing longer.
Q. Do you relish it being harder?
GEMMA DRYBURGH:   I prefer when courses are harder.  Suits me better I think compared to the field, so yeah it suits me quite well.
Q. And having played your third day, how are you feeling now about playing without crowds?
GEMMA DRYBURGH:   It feels like you're kind of playing amateur golf again with no crowds, but it would be nice to have a few crowds out there.  But we're kind of used to it now.  We're always focused, anyway, so it doesn't make too much difference I think.
Q. Does it make you feel more free and easy?
GEMMA DRYBURGH:   I think obviously, Scottish Open, you put a lot of pressure on yourself being Scottish, so maybe takes some pressure off, as well.
Q. So what will you do for rest of the day?
GEMMA DRYBURGH:   I don't know.  Can't really do much.  Probably just chill in the hotel and watch a movie or something.
Q. Are you watching any series?
GEMMA DRYBURGH:   I'm trying to find a new one.  I didn't quite finish The Old Guard movie on Netflix.  I didn't get to finish it yesterday, so probably today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT