PURE SILK CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VISIT WILLIAMSBURG
May 23, 2019
Gemma Dryburgh
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  So coming out of here with a bogey-free first round and the lowest career round on LPGA so far.  What was so comfortable for you out there?  
GEMMA DRYBURGH: Everything really, to be honest.  Drove it well; hit into the greens well; hit it pretty close a few times; and then my putting was really solid.   
I think the putting was key.  Yeah, just everything was pretty solid today.   
 Q.  Conditions got a little wavy in the afternoon.  How were you able to kind of combat that?  What was the strategy?  
GEMMA DRYBURGH: Yeah, well, obviously I'm from Scotland so I'm used a little bit a wind.  Towards the end of our front nine, which was the back nine, 16, 17, 18, were pretty windy right along the river.   
Used my Scottish knowledge to help me out there, so I think that helped.   
 Q.  When you are in a tournament like this, how much of that do you draw on from your time playing over in Scotland?  
GEMMA DRYBURGH: I think you have to try to play it to my advantage as much a possible from.  (Indiscernible - wind.)  Kind of take that into account with the wind.   
It was a on tough afternoon, that's for sure.   
 Q.  This is your second year on tour.  What is different you would say about your game maybe last year to this year?  
GEMMA DRYBURGH: Yeah, it's definitely improved a lot.  Thinking back a year from now, I've improved pretty much every aspect my game and more of my mental as expect as well.  Kind of relaxing a bit more and kind of not thinking about the score too.   
I think last year I was trying to make cuts as much as possible and as a rookie, I think you just want to get off to a good start.  I just put a little bit too much pressure on myself, and I think this year just kind of relax a bit more.   
 Q.  Got to see a little bit out in L.A. where you tied for 3.  What did that do for your confidence for the rest of the season and specifically for this event?  
GEMMA DRYBURGH: Yeah, I think e it was huge.  I played really well there.  Obviously really good last round; bogey-free as well.  That was a big confidence boost.  Putted really well that day.   
So just kind of -- I've always kind of last couple rounds I've kind of thought back to that day and kind of got confidence from it.  I think it really helped having that good result there.   
 Q.  What have you been improving on, focusing on to come out and shoot a round like you did today?  
GEMMA DRYBURGH: The mental aspect and my putting.  Those are the two things.  (Wind.)  I got a new putter a few weeks ago so it's been helping a lot.  I've been working with a new putting coach which I saw when I was at home, so that's helping me out a lot.   
 Q.  What you do you say to yourself to get you through the last couple events, and also after this round to continue the momentum into the next couple days?  
GEMMA DRYBURGH: Yeah, I mean, I'm off early tomorrow so I think that will be nice.  Softer greens and just got a bit of confidence from today and hopefully be a little bit easier out there tomorrow so I can try to go a little bit lower hopefully.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT