MLB WORLD SERIES: CARDINALS v RED SOX
October 23, 2004
Mark Bellhorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q..  In light of what happened in the ALCS, did you guys sit in the dugout in the later innings and go, "Please, not again"? 
 
MARK BELLHORN:  Coming into this, we knew it was going to be a tough battle.  I mean, they have a great offense there.  You know, it's going to be a battle.  We are going to score runs, they are going to score runs.  It's whoever can get the last one.  This team has got a lot of heart and character and somehow I think we got the confidence to come back, so we did.  
 
Q..  You seem like a pretty laid back guy, how does that help you in your slump like you were early in the ALCS, how does that help you ride it out? 
 
MARK BELLHORN:  You just have to kind of feed off those games.  In the playoffs, everything seems like a critical moment kind of, but you've just got to think of the positives and not really so much think of those four games, because any game can be a pivotal game or a pivotal play, so you've just got to live in the present.  So that's kind of what I try to do.  
 
Q..  In light of what you just said, this turn in the last three games, is there anything mechanical or physical or is it just riding out the slump? 
 
MARK BELLHORN:  Just confidence.  I mean, I think we forget that the mind is a powerful thing and sometimes we just lose our confidence.  You know, these games, you want to win so bad that you sometimes put too much pressure on yourself and that's when you start to struggle.  You know, you just got to battle through it and that's kind of what I did.  Support, everybody kept trying to pump me up and keep my confidence up because you never know what could happen or when you're needed.  That's what happened.  Got a couple of good hits.  
 
Q..  You got a pretty good look at it.  Is that a home run in any other park or is that just home-field advantage? 
 
MARK BELLHORN:  I don't know, I'm not sure.  I hit it pretty good, but depends on which way the wind was blowing.  The wind was blowing pretty hard.  Actually I thought I hit the first one and it kind of blew pretty hard to the right.  I don't know, I'm not sure.  
 
Q..  History is full of playoff and World Series heroes, like the Mark Lemke and Gene Tenace and Tito Landrum, did you ever envision yourself like that growing up, watching the series in the playoffs and putting yourself in a spot that you've been in tonight and up to the World Series?
 
MARK BELLHORN:  I think so.  Every little boy always thinks of playing in the World Series, Game 7 and winning the game.  I mean, I know I did, I guess, but it's not, being, I'm not here to try to be a hero.  Just to here to try to win four games. 
 
Q..  After slumping last year, what does it mean to you to be in this position this year and having a chance to win a world championship? 
 
MARK BELLHORN:  Unbelievable.  If you asked me last year if I thought I was going to be in this spot, I would probably have to say no.  I think last year, I really don't know what happened, but I think I got a lot stronger from it.  And was able to, you know, for future times, been able to go back on that and remember what I went through, and hopefully get over it quicker.  
 

End of FastScripts...`            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT