AL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: RED SOX v YANKEES
October 19, 2004
Mark Bellhorn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  After your struggles in this series, what does it mean it hit the home run. 
 
MARK BELLHORN:  It's pretty big for me.  My first time to be involved in something like, this it makes you try a little bit harder sometimes.  Teammates, they just kept pumping me up and build my confidence and for me to do something like this is pretty good.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about what Curt's performance tonight and were you aware what he had to go through to get ready to pitch?
 
MARK BELLHORN:  Yeah, it was an unbelievable challenge and everybody knows that the stuff he was going through with his ankle, just the pain that he was in and for him to step up like this in Game 6 was just unbelievable.  Just watching him go about it out there was awesome.  You know, it kept us in the series.  
 
Q.  Did you ever lose confidence in yourself and how were you dealing with what you had gone through in the playoffs so far?
 
MARK BELLHORN:  I think you do maybe a little bit.  You know, any time you don't get hits or you're not putting good at-bats together I think you lose a little bit.  But that shows a lot about this team where everybody was on my side and kept telling me that I'm going to come through for this team and that just shows a lot about this team, how close we are and how much we really want to win this.  
 
Q.  Was there any doubt in your mind the ball was out, the home run?
 
MARK BELLHORN:  To be honest with you, I didn't think I hit it good enough to get out.  I knew the wind was kind of blowing in from left and when I hit it, I knew it was slicing away from Matsui.  So I mean, I pretty much knew that it was going to maybe just get in the corner for a double or something like that.  I don't know, kind of surprised myself that it went out.  
 
Q.  Can you talk about tomorrow being part of Red Sox/Yankees Game 7 with a trip to the World Series on the line? 
 
MARK BELLHORN:  It's going to be an exciting game.  I know last year they went to Game 7 and I was at home watching it on TV but to be a part of it is going to be pretty awesome, especially the way the series had gone.  They won three and we came back and won three.  It's going to be an exciting game and I'm looking forward to it. 
 
Q.  This has just been a phenomenal series; from a players perspective how exciting is it to play in this particular series?
 
MARK BELLHORN:  It's been exciting.  We pretty much knew what we were getting into all year long, and I've never experienced it before but just the Yankees and Red Sox, it's a lot more than you would expect looking at it from the outside.  We knew what it was going to come down to, you know it was not going to be an easy series for either team and I think it's everything everybody expected it to be, coming down to this Game 7.  It's going to be exciting tomorrow. 
 
Q.  With Schilling going so deep into the game tonight, what does that mean and how does that set you up for tomorrow night pitching-wise?
 
MARK BELLHORN:  I really don't know who is going tomorrow but both of our bullpens have been used a lot in the last two games, or the two games before in Boston.  Game 7, end of the year, I think you're playing on adrenaline and you're not really thinking about what hurts or something like that.  It's who wants it more, who has more heart.   
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT