ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT
March 7, 2019
Quentin Hillsman
Kiara Lewis
Miranda Drummond
Tiana Mangakahia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Syracuse - 67, Virginia - 57   
COACH HILLSMAN: ... we had a great balance.  We were able to get a few players off the floor probably for a few more minutes than we had to play.  At this time of year it's about winning the game and we gotta do whatever we need to do to get a W, so just really happy for our team and happy for our effort.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions?   
 Q.  I know the press is kind of the calling card of yours.  But how did you do in that aspect?  And how did it affect the game given UVA's short bench?  
COACH HILLSMAN: We wanted to speed the game up.  A lot of times when you're pressing teams everything is predicated on your turnovers.  And for us it's not predicated on that.  We just want to get pace and get tempo.   
I thought that our press really sped them up and allowed them -- sorry, it made them not run solid offense.  They couldn't really get down the court and get into a set.  That's what we really wanted to do, not guard the sets for the entire game.   
 Q.  Coach, it feels like the 3, obviously it's still a big part of what you guys do, but feels like it's a bit more well rounded now, it complements the inside game.  Has that been an effort in the last couple of months?  
COACH HILLSMAN: We were talking about attacking the basket and attacking the paint off the bounce and post feeds.  And our offense did a really good job of really recognizing when they're open and when they're having good shots.   
And Miranda was -- really, really shot the bell really well and Gabby shot the ball well today and that was key.  You have two of your best shooters making, I believe it was six out of their eight 3s, that's what you want.   
 Q.  Tiana, what does it feel like today when you have an off game early, takes a little bit to get going but your teammates pick you up?  How does that make you feel especially moving into tomorrow?  
TIANA MANGAKAHIA: Yeah, obviously I didn't have a great game.  I had a couple of turnovers and stuff.  But it's always good when everyone's contributing to the game and everyone's giving what they bring to the table.  And I think that really helps us no matter who we play.  And no matter how I'm playing or what I'm doing, like, if everyone comes to the game prepared and ready, like, we can win.   
 Q.  Miranda, you had three pretty big offensive boards in the third quarter and one in the fourth quarter.  How does that boost team morale after you get those second-chance opportunities?  
MIRANDA DRUMMOND: It's a good feeling, I guess, getting a rebound.  That was one of my main focuses for this game is to box out and get as many rebounds as I can.  I feel like they were big-time rebounds, like you said, and I felt that kept our team going.  We stayed positive and I thought that helped with our energy.   
COACH HILLSMAN: I want to chime in on that because it's important we understand that it saves possessions.  Those rebounds and those games and games like this, that means we're playing offense for a minute and that was critical down the stretch.  Those rebounds, they were huge rebounds.  They really sealed the game.  Did a good job.   
MIRANDA DRUMMOND: Thank you.   
 Q.  Kiara, you really thrived over the past couple of months.  If Tiana had an off game, feels like you come in and provide that spark off the bench.  How do you think you fit in with this team and how do you find your groove, because you've been very productive?  
KIARA LEWIS: I know a lot of teams focus more on Tiana, so I think that's my opportunity to come off the bench and step up.  And actually, not starting, you get to see how the game's going.   
So I think that's helped me in the last few months.  And I know a lot of teams are going to focus on Tiana so that's my chance to step up and help the team.   
 Q.  Miranda, looking at the Miami game, you missed that game, the game they came into the dome and built you guys by double digits.  Is it exciting to get back out there get a second chance and have Miranda back in the lineup, anybody?  
TIANA MANGAKAHIA: I think for sure.  She's a big aspect of our offense, shooting 3s, that's what we love to do.  And I think her coming into this game will really help us a lot.  It was a good game against them at home and not having her, we struggled with the 3-point percentage in that game, yeah, so I think it will be good for us.   
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT