BIG 12 CONFERENCE WOMEN'S BASKETBALL CHAMPIONSHIP
March 3, 2017
Brandon Schneider
Jada Brown
Jessica Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Oklahoma State - 79   
Kansas - 75   
THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by the Kansas Jayhawks, Coach Brandon Schneider and his two student-athletes, Jessica Washington and Jada Brown.  Coach, your thoughts about tonight's game?   
BRANDON SCHNEIDER: I thought our team showed a lot of fight down the stretch.  Unfortunately, Oklahoma State, give them credit was dominant on the glass.  You can't get outrebounded by 29 and expect to win a game.  I also think that you expect Jensen and Mandy Coleman who have been terrific players all year long.  But I would also credit Diana Omozee being an out standing player for them tonight and really being a difference maker.   
 Q.  Coach, you had 0 wins last year and you were more competitive this season.  How do you think your team improved throughout the year and how do you see next season going?  
BRANDON SCHNEIDER: There is still a lot of unanswered questions for us in terms of next year because we've signed three players, but we have three open scholarships and plan to add as many as six new players to our team.  I thought we took some steps forward defensively.  We had a bunch of freshmen that played last year and they all improved, and I think obviously we were excited about the year that Jess had, being Newcomer of the Year, it's the first major award winner we've had since 1997.   
 Q.  Jessica, you went 4 for 17 tonight.  What was different?  What did you see that was different?  
JESSICA WASHINGTON: Some nights are going to be your off nights and some are going to be your on.  I'm a competitive player, and with my team behind me it really doesn't matter.  They fought back down the stretch, and if I was 10-17, 15-17, 4-17, it doesn't really matter.  My team is always behind me and they're never going to give up.   
 Q.  Coach, you mentioned Diana Omozee going off against you guys a little bit.  What do you think she did guarding Jessica as well?  
BRANDON SCHNEIDER: Well, I think when she was on Jess you have a tremendous athlete who also has length and I thought that Jessica was aggressive, but there were a lot of shots that Omozee did a really good job of challenging and turning routine shots that Jess normally gets into tougher looks.   
 Q.  Coach, what was the message going into the fourth quarter that sparked that 12-0 run in a two-minute span?  
BRANDON SCHNEIDER: We preached rebounding in every timeout, but we felt like we were still in the game and there's been numerous times this year where we have been able to mount some comebacks with the press and felt like getting to the free throw line was going to be critical in that stretch as well.   
 Q.  Jada, then Jessica, how have you seen your team grow this season?  
JADA BROWN: Like he said, we had a young team last year, so I've seen growth in them on and off the court, and I think with more pride and defensively going into this season we knew if we could be a good defensive team that would give us momentum for offense.  I've seen my teammates learn a lot of accountability on defense and taking pride in that more than anything else.   
JESSICA WASHINGTON: I agree with Jada.  Everybody has grown on and off the court.  We did a great job of building our team culture and I don't think anybody could say that we ever give up.  We always are going to play hard and our team chemistry is going to continue to build.   
 Q.  Jada, so Mandy and Kaylee, they had a lot of rebounds tonight.  What was the challenge down there for you?  
JADA BROWN: I've always been an undersized in this league playing for the Big 12.  They are very strong.  Solid bodies.  A lot of people think they're big, but they're mobile bigs.  So it will push them back and get the rebound.  I would probably say the weight difference makes it a little bit tougher.   
THE MODERATOR: Thanks folks.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT