WALKER CUP
September 10, 2017
Doug Ghim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Let's get the obvious question out of the way.  How does it feel to be a United States Walker Cup champion?  
DOUG GHIM: It feels great to be able to play it the way I wanted to.  Wasn't really sure how nervous I would be, but, I don't know, I felt really comfortable from the first tee shot on and just kind of rode the wave.  I've been playing really well all summer and to end the summer with a week like this is so much fun.  But couldn't do it without the support of the fans this week, the volunteers, a great captain, the USGA, the R & A, and my teammates.  My teammates are great as well.   
 Q.  You played in amateur and team competitions, but it's different when you got that red, white and blue on.  Tell us what's different about it.  
DOUG GHIM: It's just an electricity in the air.  I just think that to be named to one of the strongest, if not the strongest country in the world of golf, to be named as one of the 10 to represent the United States in the highest of honors an amateur can get is just, it's head scratching.  I remember watching the Walker Cup when I was in middle school and elementary school and I remember thinking like, wow, maybe one day I might get there, but that would be crazy.  And then to think that I'm standing here and won all four matches, it's just a dream come true.  It's a huge confidence booster moving on.   
 Q.  I know you're disappointed when you lost the Amateur final, you played well that day, but does this make up in any way for that disappointment?  
DOUG GHIM: I mean, sure, disappointed to lose, but I left Riviera with my head held high.  I showed what I could do, I proved to myself what I could do, and the goal this week was just to keep it going and do what I prepared for.  I felt really prepared for the U.S. Amateur and I felt just as prepared for this week.  Yeah, it feels so good, it feels so good to win for Cap and I just feel really good right now.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT