WALKER CUP
September 10, 2017
Doug Ghim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  4-0 week pretty much of a dream summer.  The U.S. Amateur was a little bit of a rough finish, considering what Doc did.  How were you able to bounce back and play so well here?  
DOUG GHIM: Well the Monday after the U.S. Amateur I was on Twitter and it kind of just hit me.  I mean, yeah, certainly disappointed that I didn't get the W at Riviera, but I played great and I just ran into a really tough competitor.  And he's just -- I mean, if you told me at the beginning of the week that I was going to get an exemption into the Masters and the U.S. Open and be a member of the Walker Cup team, I would have taken it.  So I took it in stride, I was really excited for the Walker Cup and I really wanted to play well and, more than anything, it wasn't so much that I wanted to get redemption for the U.S. Amateur, it was more like I really wanted to win for Cap.  I know how much this means to him and I'm just so happy that we could pull it through and win for him.  He's such a great guy.   
 Q.  You had an amazing Amateur week, but this week is special, this will be something you'll remember for the rest of your life.  You now have nine brothers.  I'm sure you'll talk to them for the rest of your life.  Can you put into words what the week has felt like?  
DOUG GHIM: It's, I mean, the first couple of days was crazy.  I remember watching the Walker Cup as a kid and just, it looked so up there, like I just didn't think that -- I mean, obviously, you dream of being in that position, but when it comes a reality, it is just, it's pretty crazy.  And frankly I struggled the first couple of days just trying to deal with the fact that I was a member of the U.S. men's squad and in the Walker Cup.  And just to get to know the guys -- and these are the best players in our country, this is the best players that we have to offer -- and I learned so much from them just by spending time with them every day and got to play some of the nicest courses in the area, and the level of golf played this weekend was incredible and GB&I had a great squad, their team is great, and it will be a week that I won't ever forget.   
 Q.  The Walker Cup has been around for a long long time and there's a good chance that you'll be one of three men to finish with a 4-0 record.  That has never happened for a team, either team, ever.  So congrats on a great week it was fun to watch?  
DOUG GHIM: Thanks so much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT