ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL
March 6, 2021
Doug Ghim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Obviously not a great finish, but I think you would probably have taken 7-under when you started the day.  Just kind of talk about the round and where does this rank among rounds so far in your TOUR career?
 DOUG GHIM:   Yeah, it was a good one, obviously.  It looked like it could have been very difficult at the beginning of the day, just looking at the forecast, but we were kind of lucky, we got hit with some rain, but not too much.
 But the only difference today was I was making putts and it's nice to see, especially with some big events coming up, including this one.  So as far as ranking them, I mean, it could be a really good round, I mean obviously it's more of a week thing, so if I play well tomorrow, it could be a really, really good day that ranks up there.  But the only thing I'm really focused about is going into tomorrow and just trying to make more putts.
 Q. How many shots easier do you think this rain made this course from the first two days?
 DOUG GHIM:   I thought it made it almost harder in some ways.
 Q. How so?
 DOUG GHIM:   It just made the course a little longer tee to green.  But then the greens didn't seem to get much softer.  So the greens almost felt like they got firmer and faster and, yeah, I mean, I don't know.  For me, I guess it ended up good, because I left a lot of putts short the first two days, so I was just starting to get them to the hole and they were going in.
 Q. You mentioned putting.  Was there anything in particular you've done in the past few weeks to try to tighten up that part of your game?
 DOUG GHIM:   I found something at Pebble Beach, just alignment and just picking a more specific spot.
 And I putted well at Riviera and I didn't drive it well.  I found out that I cracked a driver.
 So, yeah, it was a frustrating week because I was hitting it so well going into Riviera, but didn't hit it so well during Riviera and putted great.  And putting was the one thing that I didn't do well coming into that event.
 So got an off week and started hitting it better again and started -- kept putting well and -- it wasn't, the first two days were a little frustrating, because I was hitting my lines and there was a lot of putts that looked like they were going to go in and they just didn't.  The only difference today is that they went in.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT