U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2016
Doug Ghim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. With what's going on with some of the matches, how will you feel about carrying the Texas banner?
DOUG GHIM: I mean, both good and bad in a way.  I definitely wish that Taylor got through that playoff this morning and that Scottie -- Gavin still has a shot to bring it around.  But I'm not really sure where they stand now.  You know, whenever I get an opportunity, every time I tee it up, I feel like I'm bringing that Texas banner, whether it's by myself or with my teammates.  It doesn't really change much, but it's definitely something maybe in the back of my mind that I want to do them proud and I want to see how far I can make it this week.
Q. You come to the first round of match play and you get somebody who's got some pretty good USGA experience playing Todd White.  What was that like, and how did you get the job done?
DOUG GHIM: Well, I knew it was going to be difficult when I saw that I was going to play Todd White.  Todd is a member of a Walker Cup team.  He's a very accomplished player, and like you said, very experienced, whether it's in USGA or just golf in general.  You know, I played pretty solid.  We did give each other a couple holes here and there, but I just felt like I played basically how I wanted to in terms of I put the ball in play for the most part, and I played smart and capitalized on a couple of opportunities and was just fortunate to hold on.
Q. How different were the conditions when you got back out there?
DOUG GHIM: It was noticeably more wet than when we were previously on the course, obviously.  But it didn't make too much of a difference, or at least we didn't have necessarily very long holes to play, so it wasn't as noticeable, because it was already kind of wet before we went in, but you could kind of tell walking up to some holes that it was pretty severely flooded at one point, but I don't think it made too much of a difference in our match.
Q. Is the U.S. Amateur an event that you circle on your calendar and try to get ready for and gear up?  I see the smile on your face.
DOUG GHIM: Absolutely, yeah.  The two I think that I look at, or I guess three, I would love to play in a Walker Cup one day.  That's one that I would love to do.  But the U.S. Am and maybe national championships while I'm in school are the two things that we probably want the most.  I would do anything to win a national championship with my teammates, and to be able to win a U.S. Am would mean everything to me.  It would mean that I played and I beat the best players in the world on one of the best golf courses in the world.
Yeah, it would mean a lot to me, and I definitely look forward to it every year.
Q. The close that you got to the national championship when you're playing Oregon, what's carrying you now?  I coach kids, so I always tell them you learn more from not winning than you do from winning; is that true when it comes to what happened at nationals?
DOUG GHIM: It definitely sticks to you a little longer, I feel.  Still stinging from it.  It's tough.  It's tough to go through that, and I just remember me and Scottie, who had won our matches the last day, it was brutal.  I can't imagine how Gavin and Taylor felt, and even Beau for not getting to play.  It was difficult for all of us because we all wanted it so badly.  We wanted Beau to leave on a high note, and we really wanted to bring it home.  But yeah, we learned a lot.  We're still learning.  We learned from Concession.  We lost barely in the quarterfinals, and then we got a chance for redemption.  Yeah, I think all of us, it made us all stronger.  The adversity that we had faced, I think it brought us closer.  I think the chemistry is better.  Given the opportunity next time around, I think that we'll be ready.
Q. Does Coach check in with you guys?
DOUG GHIM: He does, yeah.  He was here earlier this week, and our assistant coach is here now.  But I think Coach will make another trip down should we make it a little bit further.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT