MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2018
Doug Ghim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. What are you going to do with all the glasses?
DOUG GHIM: I don't know, I guess decorate my room. I don't know what else to say. Just very excited and glad that I get to take special hardware home. 

Q. And the trophy, that's going to be pretty impressive?
DOUG GHIM: That is probably the most honorable thing that I've done as a golfer. I mean I've had the opportunity to play on a Walker Cup team, Palmer Cup team, on a national championship with my team and play‑‑ and finish second at the U.S. Amateur. But to be here and to play against the best players in the world is definitely a confidence boost moving forward, the fact that I could perform somewhat close to what I feel like I can. I feel like I could do better than I think 6‑over par is what I finished at. But I'm going to credit that to some nerves, inexperience. This is my first TOUR event, let alone a major championship. But a lot of positives to move forward.
Yesterday they had those tablets inside of the caddie house, the statistics, category, and I looked at it and that will get you real humble, real quick (laughter.) There wasn't really many things that I stood out amongst the field in. 
So as great of a week as this has been and as happy as I am to be playing the weekend, I also understand that there's a lot to do and a lot of work to do to be able to have the dream and contend for one of those jackets. But being here on the weekend amongst the best players in the world on one of the most special golf courses in the world is definitely a great motivator for years to come.

Q. Can you describe your eagle?
DOUG GHIM: It was special. I mean, 13‑‑ I would say 10 and 13 are my favorite holes on the golf course. And 13, I hit a great drive and I got a favorable kick that sent the ball a little further down there than I have been all week. Had about 205 to the flag and I was advised by multiple players to play that to the middle of the green, because one left is a very difficult up and down. Had the nerve to make solid contact and aimed right where I was looking and it was in the middle of the green. It actually got to the slope but didn't come down, it might be because it's a little wetter and a little softer. But it left me a pretty straight forward, up the hill‑‑ 20, 25‑footer. It had just a gentle break right‑to‑left. 

Q. 5‑iron in there?
DOUG GHIM: 5‑iron, and I just told myself to give it a chance. The greens are a little slower today and just be a little bit more aggressive with it. And halfway it looked good. And it just continued to look good until it went down.

Q. Any golfers asking your advice, since you've got three eagles?
DOUG GHIM: I think that's the only category where I'm near the top‑10. So I'm glad to at least have some silver lining. But being out here is great. I'm excited to be playing on Masters Sunday. It will be an emotional day for my family and I. Blessed to be here. 

Q. What was it like playing with Bernhard Langer?
DOUG GHIM: Anytime you get to play with someone who's won the event and won so many major tournaments‑‑ not major championships, although he did win this twice, I do know that. I mean playing with Mr. Lyle and Mr. Langer, it was a blast. They had a lot of nice encouraging things to say to me. And Mr. Langer, especially, made sure that I felt comfortable. There were a lot of times where he would go ahead and hit up first, just so I didn't feel like I had to rush. And I really enjoyed playing with him. It was a lot of fun. And he is very good. It's cool to watch that. He knows the golf course so well. And he always put the ball in the right spot. 
And I just told myself that I've got to continue learning. Like I said yesterday, I don't want this to be my last trip. And so it's a big learning curve. I'm going to try to learn as much every day as I can. And hopefully I'll get back here soon, and be able to get into contention.

Q. Do you know some of the low Ams in recent years?
DOUG GHIM: I know Bryson, Bryson is a friend. I talked to him a couple of times early in the week. He told me this morning that I was his pick to win the low Am. And he said thanks for making me look smart. 

Q. Sergio, Hideki, Tiger?
DOUG GHIM: Yeah, and I was reminded yesterday that Mr. Crenshaw had won the low Am twice, and that means a lot to me. That's pretty special. And I won't forget it for the rest of my life.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT