MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 5, 2018
Doug Ghim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Different nines there for you. But talk about the eagle?
DOUG GHIM: Which one? 

Q. The one on 18. 
DOUG GHIM: The one on 18, I was just trying to make sure that I hit a good shot. I just came out of my second shot on 17, got away with a par. Just kind of backed out of it, scared of it for some reason. 
So I thought going into the shot I needed to commit to it, be aggressive. And it came off the club great. It was on a great line right off the bat. It was going right at it, and I said please get back there. I saw it land, and then all of a sudden everyone was standing up and the next thing I know I turn around and my dad is running at full speed. It's stuff you dream about. And just that the crowd on 18 was cheering for me, was special. 

Q. What changed on the back nine from the front nine?
DOUG GHIM: I was just nervous. I mean I couldn't feel my hands on the first tee. Somehow the ball went down the middle of the fairway. But I was trying to get comfortable, which is difficult to do out here. My first professional event and to have it at the Masters is pretty special. It's very emotional, just having my family here and being here as an amateur, it means a lot to me. And there's been a lot of thoughts on my head, but once I made the turn, the tee shot from the back nine fit my eye a little bit better. I felt a little more comfortable. And I just felt good. And I gave myself some good looks, and I made them. The one on 18 was just a bonus. 

Q. Did it have the expectations you thought it would have?
DOUG GHIM: Yeah, there are definitely some shots I'll never forget in my life. I mean the hybrid I hit on 13, I hit it right at it, and I hit it to like six feet, and it was just like‑‑ I just looked at it and, did I just hit that? Was I the one that did that? I couldn't believe it until I got to the hole and I marked my ball. It was my ball. I don't know how it got there. 
But it's been everything that I could dream of and more and I'm just fortunate enough to play well enough to have the crowd cheering for me when I was walking up 18.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT