MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 6, 2018
Doug Ghim
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q. Talk about the day.   
DOUG GHIM: I fought, I did everything I could to make sure that ‑‑ I didn't get down on myself because that's what this golf course wants you to do, and this Masters tournament, just because of all the things, I mean what the Masters represents. They do a great job of trying to distract you from what you're trying to do. Whether it's the scenic views, the danger that's around the target that you're looking for, or just the crowds and just everything. I just felt like I did the best that I could to stay focused and stay positive and just try to stick it through.   
   
 Q. Did you expect two eagles again today or?  
DOUG GHIM: I certainly am going to let it happen if it happened. But I knew that it was going to be a lot more difficult today. I was a fraction off on 13 from being a good shot, but that's okay. I was fortunate to find my ball. And I didn't want to mess with Rae's Creek again, so I just played it out safe and tried to make a longer putt and it didn't fall. But the putt on 16 was huge going into the last two holes. I mean that thing was kind of motoring, but it hit dead center and it's a big relief to be 4‑over instead of 5.   
   
 Q. Do you think that might be what the cut line's at?  
DOUG GHIM: I don't want to jinx myself, but I just think I might be in pretty good shape, I'm within, I think, 7 the last time I checked, might be 8 now, but I just hope my number's called tomorrow and it would be a blessing to play the weekend.   
   
 Q. How far was the putt on 16?  
DOUG GHIM: The putt on 16 was from the fairway cut, it was about probably 20 feet. And I hit a really good tee shot, I thought it might land shorter than it did, it carried a little bit further than I expected and ran out. But I mean I put a good stroke on it, it was just a little faster than I thought, but I mean it was such a good line and I was like, please, please, just hit the hole, and it hit dead center and it went in.  
   
 Q. You bounced back after the double with birdies on 2 and 3. What was it on 2?  
DOUG GHIM: I had like a 4‑iron from 230, I think, on the second shot and just thinned it. But I knew that if I was anywhere short ‑‑ I was trying to get it short left, but there was a tree that was kind of in that way and I didn't want to mess with it too much and just by catching it thin it didn't draw as much as I wanted it to, but I left myself a decent chance, I hit a good pitch. I thought it would roll back the slope, but it was about six feet. And it was a ticklish putt, but it went in dead center, which is a good way to see something go in early.   
And then I hit a great drive on 3, got all the way down there, hit a wedge from about 69 yards, skipped it back there to about five feet and then hit a good putt and it went in and all of a sudden I was back to even.   
   
 Q. 18, did you think that putt was going in? You read it perfectly.   
DOUG GHIM: Yeah, I mean I've hit variations of that putt, the pin, I never hit it with the pin that far down there. I was told that a lot of the pins sometimes are closer to the ridge, so I was just trying to figure out exactly the angle that I was trying to get, because I was practicing the putt closer to the ridge and I felt like, I was thinking it was more on a side line, but I took it more, slightly more direct, and it just kind of picked up speed. But after like about three quarters of the way there I was like this looks similar to on the fall line of Sandy's bunker shot and this might have a chance to just get in the hole, but immediately as it was going to the hole I was like, please, just sit. Like, please sit. And it left me a pretty easy putt for par. Nevertheless, not easy, but I was fortunate enough to have it in there to make it.  
   
 Q. No matter what happens, what are you taking from what you've done so far and applying it to the college season the rest of the way?  
DOUG GHIM: I'm assuming that not every TOUR event feels quite this nerve wracking, but I take a lot of confidence from the way that I held myself. I felt like if anything, my attitude was really good these first two days, I could have very easily shot 78 yesterday, very easily could have shot 80 today, and kind of stuck with it. I looked at the leaderboard and saw that everybody was kind of salvaging whatever they could get and it kind of gave me the motivation to be like, if I could hang in there and maybe stick it through tomorrow, the weather's not great, if I get my number called and play a solid round, I could even move up that leaderboard and that.  
   
 Q. You were saying yesterday that you are kind of addicted to watching, are you going to be watching today to see how it pans out for you?  
DOUG GHIM: Yeah, I mean, I have a good feeling that I've, that I probably will be around for the weekend, just because of that 10‑shot rule it doesn't seem like ‑‑ I mean, obviously there can be crazy things that happen, but I think that, I mean the greens are softer in the morning and with the wind it was playing difficult, I can only imagine when they're firm. But these are the best players in the world and I don't know what to expect. These are not collegiate players that I'm used to. But I'll see what happens, but I'll be around and I'll enjoy my weekend nevertheless.   
   
 Q. Last question, did your dad lose the yardage book?  
DOUG GHIM: He lost it early in the week. He lost it I think on Sunday, but we gathered it back on I think Monday afternoon. So the people were kind enough to scrounge it up for us.  
   
 Q. Where was it?  
DOUG GHIM: He said it was in the lost and found, they had found it near the restroom.  
   
 Q. Here?  
DOUG GHIM: Yeah, I think that, my dad was using the restroom, you kind of have to take your whole jump suit off, it's a onesie, or whatever it is.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT