ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 15, 2020
Cheyenne Knight
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  THE MODERATOR:   Welcome to Cheyenne after a 2-under par round, one of only ten or 11 players who managed to score under par.  Can you talk about your round and how you handled the conditions.
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, looking at the weather forecast this morning, it definitely played harder than it looked like.  It was just chilly and a steady breeze all day, but yeah, I hit a lot golf shots, and when I was out of position, I was able to get up-and-down, and I've been putting really well, for the most part, I'm really happy, like tee-to-green how I've been hitting it but just got to clean up a few things for tomorrow.
 THE MODERATOR:   So you started out, you played Drive on and Marathon and you missed the cut at drive on, and you were tied 34th at Marathon, so your great champion game is obviously on a great curve.  How have you got it into this position.
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, kind of the restart in Ohio, I was kind of over thinking things and now I'm just kind of free swinging it out there and just trusting myself and trusting all the work that I've put in and honestly just enjoying myself because I want to play golf for a long time, and me being so stressed out about how I play takes the enjoyment out of it, so at end of the day, I'm just trying to have fun.
 Q. You look like you're having fun out on the course and enjoying the challenges of links golf.  Are you enjoying the links challenge?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yes.  I haven't played a lot of links golf, but I do love the challenge and love how creative you have to be, and when it's tough -- I like it when it plays hard but you just have to embrace it and when I've been out of position, I just want to give myself a putt at par and just take bogey if I have to, because I feel like on this golf course, you're going to make bogeys but you also get some birdie opportunities.
 Q. I think you're downplaying some of the up-and-downs you made today, they looked extraordinary.  Can you walk us through, I think it was 12 where you ricochetted off the stone wall and had to get it up-and-down?  How were you going about that sort of thing and what is different about getting up-and-down in Scotland, as opposed to Texas?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Oh, let's see.  Well, on 11 I hit the wall a little bit and it kind of ricocheted back.  I like to be creative with my chipping and I like to hit those different heights and trajectories, but I feel like out here, you either run it -- you just have to run it a lot I think, playing the chip-and-run or bump-and-run or putting it.
 But on that hole, I was just trading my chip shot like a putt.  I picked a spot where I wanted to land it and knew the speed it was going to go and the break.  Just kind of played a little runner like I would a putt.
 Q. Do you do those shots with the same club or something a little different?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I usually just use my 58 and my 54-degree wedge, probably like the people in Scotland don't love to hear that I use those clubs.  But yeah, I use my 58 and I can kind of manipulate a little bit, like roll the face if I need to run it a little bit or -- but yeah, I love to kind of chip around here.  It exposes you if you're not chipping well, but you have to make solid contact out here.
 Q. I heard in your TV interview outside that you had come over to Scotland when you were 13 to play golf with your dad.  Where did you play?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   We played at Turnberry.  We played at St. Andrews.  We played Kingsbarns, Western Gailes.  We played a lot of links golf over here, and he was definitely a lot better than me because I would hit the high shot right into the wind and he would play the low, low shot, run it up on the green.
 So I lost to my dad a lot that trip.  But that was my first experience, and I was totally like out of my comfort zone.  But yeah, getting the hang of it I think.
 Q. Did you love it from the first go, or were you a bit frustrated, your dad knowing what to do and you not knowing what to do?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I was frustrated because at Turnberry on the third hole, he holed out from 150 yards because he like chipped an 8-iron and just it rolled up right on the green and I thought that was so unfair because it requires you to be creative, and I was not creative when I was that young.  I think out here, you may get it wrong sometimes if you're going to try to like run it up there and you just kind of have to accept it.  You can't really dwell on your shots, ever, and especially out here.
 Q. Everybody is saying the pin placements have been particularly tough today and patience has been a key.  Has that been how you felt, just trying to be patient and let everything go?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, I think the pins were especially tucked over the bunkers.  It was hard to fire at them a lot, especially on the back nine, but you just have to take a 30-footer or 40-footer and just accept it, but there are birdie chances out here, but yeah, for the most part today, you just had to play smart and stay patient.
 Q. What are you thinking about tomorrow, so well placed on the leaderboard?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, I think I'm just going to go about it like I would any other day, just treat it the same.  Just try to do my best.  That's all I can do.  But I may glance at a leaderboard every now and again, but I think even par, a few under goes a long way, especially on this golf course, one shot at a time.
 Q. Have you been looking at leaderboards?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I've been looking.  I think like I saw where I was yesterday, I think when I was walking to 17, I glanced and I think like Stacy and Aza were at 6 and I was at 5.  Just knowing and kind of how the course is playing, as well.  Got to just glance a little bit.
 Q. What's the difference between a Scotland wind and a west Texas wind?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Oh, it's colder here.  But not a whole lot.  I like playing in the wind just because I'm used to it.  But the Scotland wind, we don't have fescue or pot bunkers, so definitely the wind makes it a little bit more intimidating.  But yeah, it was, it was blowing steady all day.  Kind of similar.  But I know it can really blow out here.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT