ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS LADIES SCOTTISH OPEN
August 14, 2020
Cheyenne Knight
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. 3-under today, what was going so right for you?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I don't know, I guess I just stayed really patient.  I feel like I honestly hit it better yesterday, but just kind of made the putts today.  Yeah, at first I was kind of grinding it out.  Made a lot of like putts inside six feet to save par, but on the back, the putts just started falling.  I started hitting it pretty close to the pin, and so yeah, it was good.
 Q. What's the last two days been like for you?  What's your take away on playing links golf?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I love links golf.  Just the challenge of it makes it fun and get to try new shots.  Yeah, I remember the first time I came to Scotland on a golf trip, I was 13.  I just love it.  You have to be creative and embrace the challenge of it.  I feel like sometimes you're not going to judge it right with the bounces and stuff, so you just have to take it for what it is.
 Q. A lot of players have been saying you have to accept the shots out there.  Would you say you're accepting the shots?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, for sure.  I've just been telling myself like all I can do is hit the best shot I can and from there, you have to accept it, whether it takes a good bounce or a bad bounce.  So yeah, I'm just trying to, you know, play aggressive because I feel like links golf is intimidating.  So just kind of be fearless and just accept it at the end of the day.
 Q. We saw you for two weeks over in Toledo and here with new protocols and everything.  What's it been like transitioning to now this tournament in another country?  Are you the one driving?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I am the one driving.  I feel like I'm doing a pretty good job.  I hit a kerb like a few days ago, but I feel like it's just -- I feel like at the end of the day, things are weird, but we get to play golf, especially over here in Scotland, you know, which the guys don't get to do.  Like they canceled The Open.  So the fact that we get to be here for the next two weeks when we could easily just be sitting at home and not playing.
 But it's been fun.  I think driving, when I first got the rental carry was a little stressed but now I think I've got the hang of it.
 Q. What's it been like in the hotel?  Do you ever get bored?  Are you out here more often than not just trying to keep yourself sane a little bit?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, I think yesterday I was in the morning, so especially with the delay and stuff, I was ready to get back to the hotel just because I was out here for a long time.  I think I've been trying to be out here more so I can just socialise a little bit and see people, but I like going to my room, taking a shower and just relaxing.  So looking forward to doing that.
 But I think, I mean, just not being able to eat out and walk around and sight see is a little weird.  But we are in the bubble, and it's smart for them to do that.  I would feel not as safe if we did get to leave and go to places, so it's really smart.  It's what needs to happen.
 Q. Heading into the weekend, seems like you don't have to shoot the lowest score to really still be in contention.  Do you feel like you're as confident as you can be in your game heading into the weekend?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, I feel good with my game.  I feel like even when I do like hit a bad shot or miss it a little bit, I think it's really important just to like just make bogey, like worst possible, because if you try to do something special, you could make double or worse really quickly.  So yeah, I feel good with my driving and my putting.  Everything feels good.  Just keep playing smart and the birdies are going to come.  There are birdie holes, but just got to hit the greens and kind of avoid those pot bunkers.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT