DIAMOND RESORTS TOURNAMENT OF CHAMPIONS
January 22, 2021
Cheyenne Knight
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q. Cheyenne, what a great second round here at Four Seasons.  You are started off 10 and first birdie was on 16.  Would you saw that's when the momentum started to kick in for you?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   No.  I wasn't really playing well my first nine holes, on the back nine, but the momentum really shifted when I birdied 1 after bogeying 18.  That was my first of three birdies in a row.
Q. How would you say the 1st hole went?  What club did you use to get to the green and how close of a putt was it?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, hit my gap wedge to like 12 feet; made it.
Then after that, I made a 15-footer for birdie on 2, which is a tough hole.
And then on 3 I (indiscernible) made a hole-in-one and today is my birthday, so would've been really special if that one went in.
But it was to a foot, and so the momentum just kept going.  I knew I needed to make birdies, so it was nice they were finally coming.
Q. Well happy birthday.
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Thank you.
Q. Good vibes all around.
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah.
Q. What you did you do to celebrate starting when you woke up?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Oh, gosh, it was an early wake up.  I woke up at 5:00 and my mom is so sweet, she kind of decorated room for me.  This is my first time I've ever gotten to play on my birthday, so it was definitely fun and my group was a lot of fun today.
Q. On the near ace, what club did you hit and are they giving anything away on that par-3?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I hit a 7-iron and it was 160 yards, I believe, and I hit it probably that far.  (Indicating.)  You get a $1000 gift card to Bonefish.
May caddie yelled, Bonefish while it was tracking to the hole.  A tap-in birdie is always nice.
Q. Nice round today.  Overall, the scoring seemed a little higher.  What played tougher out there today?  What made it tough?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I think the wind did.  I think it was kind of a benefit I was first off the back.  Well, not technically first off, but I was I was at 8:00.  I was the first girl off the back, LPGA player.
So definitely the wind and the pin positions were tricky today, just getting close to them, because you either get close or you're kind of off the greens, missing the greens.
There are birdie opportunities out there, so it's really important to kind of get those.
Q. You played all through the Texas swing and Naples and now here.  Do you feel like this is a continuation of last season and then you got a break, or do you feel like you had a break and now you're picking back up?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I think it was just a mini break.  Honestly, when I was testing again on Monday I just felt like I was just getting going again.  But I like this tournament kind of to see where I'm at.
I've been making some changes the last few weeks, so trying to -- I'm starting to see the shots that I'm trying to work into my game a little bit more.
And it's nice to kind of -- just feels like a continuation of last season because we have a month off after this until we really get going, but it's nice to have this tournament and to always be here is a good thing.
Q. What's the significance -- what's your new sponsor, Empower?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Empower Retirement.  Very grateful for them.  They've been absolutely fantastic.  They sponsor Webb Simpson and a few other guys on the PGA Tour, so to be their first LPGA player is an honor.
Q. Best part of your game right now?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, just Empower --
Q. Just asking what is the best part of your game?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Oh, sorry.  The best part of my game, I would say my driver is the best right now.  Hitting a lot of fairways and getting the draw back with my driver.  Like I don't think I missed any fairways today.
And my putting has been really good this week as well.
When those two things are going well for me, I can score pretty well.
Q. What kind of changes have you made?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, just like kind of little tweaks here and there.  Like playing so much at the end of last year I was holding on for dear life kind of, especially the last few events.
I was really fighting a right miss, like right, didn't go anywhere.  I'm not seeing that shot anymore.  I made some adjustments to my grip and a few little tweaks here and there with my body.  That also helps the club get into a better position, backswing and down swing.
So it's starting to feel more natural.
Q. I have a quick question.  What would you say is the most fun part about this tournament?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Oh, gosh.  Just playing with the celebrities and like the amateurs I've played with.  It's so much fun.  It's more relaxed.
I was telling my caddie, like when I would make a birdie like yesterday and today they would just start yelling.  That is very different, because you just do the golf clap.  It kind of scared me at first how loud they're yelling.
But just how positive they are and just how great athletes they are, and like a Jeremy who I played with today, amazing hockey player.
So just learning from him and just being around different athletes is really cool.
Q. Someone in particular you wanted to play with this week, Annika being in the field, too?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, I think Annika would be amazing.  I said it last year, I wants to play with Ben Higgins pretty badly.  I watch The Bachelor and I follow his fiancee on Instagram, so I think I they're just so cute.
I'm also good friends with Phil Nevins, so to play with him again - played with him last year - would be really special.
Q. Last question.  I promise.  Have you been following this season of The Bachelor?
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I have.  Of course.  I didn't get to watch it Monday, but we're like halfway through.  So I really like Matt James.  You know, the drama is always entertaining, so I like that.
Q. He's definitely a good one.  Thank you so much and good luck for the rest of the week.
CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT