THE LPGA DRIVE ON CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY VOLVIK
March 5, 2021
Cheyenne Knight
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Four birdies today, Cheyenne, 2-under overall.  Right in the hunt at 3-under.  How did it feel to put that number up today?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   It was good, especially I was 2-over after 5 and so I was struggling a little bit at first, but I holed out of the bunker on 16 for birdie and that kind of kick started things.
 But it felt good.  Like the pin positions are a little tricky today and just how firm the greens are it's hard it give yourself some looks, so I was happy to make four birdies coming in.
 Q. How different did the greens play from yesterday afternoon to this morning?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I didn't think they played that much different really.  Like yesterday afternoon they were really firm and then today they're just -- I mean, it's so warm out.  They just keep like baking out.  Definitely firm.
 I'm going to be interested to see how players play this afternoon just as they continue to get firmer.
 Q. You call Texas home, but you were able to avoid some of that recent weather out in Scottsdale preparing for events.  Take us through how nice it was avoid the weather and how nice it was to get ready for 2021?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah, I saw the terrible weather coming and I was going to go out to Scottsdale to see my short game coach, Stan Utley, to begin with, so I just left a few days early and hung out with one of my former teammates, Janie Jackson.  Got to go out to Silver Leaf.
 That was my first time being out there, so it was amazing because I wouldn't have an opportunity to practice at home if I stayed there, no even indoors or anything.
 Q. She's got a nice setup out there.
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Yeah.
 Q. Did you like the course?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   I loved it, and the practice facilities, their short game area and everything was so nice.  Since we don't have the event out there anymore it was nice to just experience Arizona.
 Q. What did you focus on with Stan?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   He's been my coach since I was 12 years old for short game, so the last time I saw him was in 2019.  We just cleaned up some stuff.  Last time I saw him was right before like the Monday qualifier at the Founders, and I shot 63 the next day.
 So just cleaning up a few things, just shallowing out my chipping motion, and with my putting just kind of like some setup up stuff.  It was good to see him.  I've known him forever, so he's a really great friend, too.
 Q. What is your favorite replica hole out here?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Oh, gosh.  I think 11 is pretty cool.  It's kind of -- it's an intimidating shot, like what you see on TV at Augusta.  I really like that one.
 Just because you know how they always talk about Augusta, you don't know where the wind is and I feel like especially on that hole you have some trees on the right that kind of block it, and so I really pay attention to other people's shots there and it's kind of like all over the place.
 So it's an intimidating shot because if I bail out left and pull it you're in the bushes.  So that's probably my favorite.
 Q. Had you ever played any of the golf courses where the replicas are?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Troon and I played St. Andrews, but that's it.  Never got to play Augusta.  Never played Oakmont.  So just the links courses.  I'm doing better on the Postage Stamp than I did in Troon, so I like that.
 Q. What do you hit on 11?
 CHEYENNE KNIGHT:   Today it was like 140 and I hit a little 8-iron and I went just past it on the fringe.  Then yesterday I also hit an 8-iron.
 So I think maybe like -- because yesterday the wind was kind of blowing all over the place and this morning it was calm, but I feel like it's an awkward number for a lot people.  It's like the pin today is just over the bunker and so you just really don't really know how it's going to react.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT