AUSTRALIAN OPEN
February 16, 2021
Hsieh Su-Wei
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  N. OSAKA/Hsieh S.
 6-2, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. How did you feel on the court today?
 HSIEH SU-WEI:   Oh, is not easy.  My first quarterfinal, so I try to tell myself it's okay and try to do my best.
 But looking like only last two shots when Naomi has two match points is when I play my best.  So I'm proud of myself.  Next time.
 Q. You had three breakpoints in the first set.  It felt like if you could have just grabbed any of them, it would have given you a lot of momentum.  What happened on those points from your point of view?  Do you think you tried too hard?
 HSIEH SU-WEI:   We know she kind of have the big serve, big baseline.  I was little bit thinking too much, so I don't manage very good on couple point when they are little bit important.
 I know is like this.  You going to do good or you not going to make some point.  So I just couldn't take it.  This is what happen in tennis.  Sometimes you are not taking the chance, you lose the point, then maybe you lose the match.  This is what happened.
 I hope next time I do better.
 Q. On the two match points, do you think you were just playing the most free you were playing the entire match?
 HSIEH SU-WEI:   Yeah, I finally feel no pressure.  So I just go and go for it.  Anyway, if I don't go for it, the point is finish and the match is finish.  So you going to do something.
 I mean, I quite like to play the point (indiscernible).  Naomi is a good player, we already know.  I accept what happened happened.
 Q. In the day leading up to this, did any sponsors reach out to you?  Would you listen to anyone now who wants to sponsor you?
 HSIEH SU-WEI:   It's always someone contact us, but I don't have a manager in Taiwan.  I play a lot of tournament.  I traveling a lot because I have to play singles and doubles.  Is going to be really tough, only if they are sure they want to have contract with me, then will make it works.
 If they're not sure, because before I went to a place to try to get a contract with one company in Taiwan, and it was not happen.  But I spent a lot of time.  I need to push my tournament somewhere else.  I'm not going to go this tournament, I need to do something.
 Then I was thinking, Okay, this is not working, if I don't have people like a manager to help, who know little bit more of tennis.  Then it will waste a lot of time.  I just go there, I'm not focusing on my practice, on my tournament.  I think is not good for me because with my age, I don't have many time to waste.  I want to put the tennis as my first priority, and other stuff if it comes, it will come, if it don't come, I don't mind.
 As you see, I do good here.  I play singles and doubles.  If I do good, I going to use this to pay my team.  If I don't do good, I need to expend my energy outside the court, if it's not happen.  So I don't have good stuff to pay my team.  Is not a good sign for me.
 Q. From what you saw from Naomi, could you see her going all the way?
 HSIEH SU-WEI:   She always can go all the way.  She just need to play her game and stay calm.  She's a great player.  She's half Asian, so we all think she can do very good.
 Q. What made Naomi such a difficult opponent for you today?
 HSIEH SU-WEI:   I think she doing good job.  The first set I was not taking control, so the match went at the side.  I was little bit in my little feeling, I was thinking I'm not doing too much, I doing late.  I going too much with my own drama.  She's doing good.  So it make it more difficult.
 So next time I need to do little bit better.
 Q. What are you most proud of this week looking back on your accomplishments, making your first Grand Slam quarterfinal?
 HSIEH SU-WEI:   My family, my friend, they are very excited.  All my fans, they're cheering for me on the Internet.  I'm sorry I couldn't play good today, but thank you so much for all of this support.
 Q. There's been a lot of discussion about you for the last 10 days or so, about your game style, your personality, your history.  How much do you realize all of this excitement around you was happening?
 HSIEH SU-WEI:   You know, as a doubles player, become a singles player, is always pretty drama for the tennis.  I'm glad that I made it.  I hope more player, they looking forward to become a better player.
 I know it's very difficult for the tennis player, the jet lag, the financial problems, sponsor problem, the team, all the pressure, is always not easy to manage it.
 At least I did it, and I will keep working hard for this.  All my team from France, from Australia, my boyfriend, my family that help a lot, so I think sometime is not easy to get everything to work this good.  But keep a positive thing and you will have good thing happen.
 Q. How do you plan to celebrate your run to the quarterfinals?
 HSIEH SU-WEI:   I will wait quarantine open and we will see.
 Q. Are you going to stay in Melbourne for a few days or head back to Paris immediately?  What is your plan?
 HSIEH SU-WEI:   I think I will stay in Melbourne, and we will see if I can get into Middle East tournament in main draw or not.  Then we will plan the next trip.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT