SHISEIDO WTA FINALS SHENZHEN
November 3, 2019
Barbora Strycova
Hsieh Su-Wei
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
BABOS-MLADENOVIC/Strycova-Hsieh   
6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Obviously not the result you wanted today. Talk through the match. What made it difficult today?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: To be honest, was difficult for us because we finished late, very, very late last night. I fall asleep at 5. I was little bit tired during the match. But it's not excuse. I just wasn't feeling 100%.   
Yeah, but they were playing also very, very good. They killed us I think from the beginning. We didn't have so much chance to get into the match.   
Huge credit to them because they were playing a great tournament. But overall I think -- not I think, but I know we had a great week. I'm very proud of what we achieved this year.   
 Q.  Speaking of the season, now that it's finally over for both of you, is it safe to say this is for each of you both in doubles and singles the best year of your careers? What do you think?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, I achieved in one tournament my goals, that I was playing semifinal in Grand Slam, I won doubles and I become No. 1 in the one tournament. I am say that this was my best year, best memories I had from this year.   
It was so special, so many moments I had. It was incredible.   
HSIEH SU-WEI: Yeah, I think is one of my best year because singles and doubles was not expect. We have a lot of fun in doubles. It helps to get rid of the pressure on singles, as well.   
Beginning of the year was a lot of singles match for both of us. It was not very easy because after singles match, you need to run on the court to play doubles.   
Thanks to Barbora helping a lot saying, Sometimes smile on court, it helps. We just relax, enjoy the match. Even we lose, we try to be positive next week.   
 Q.  Year-end No. 1 for you, Barbora. A nice shot you hit to get No. 1. Reflect on that accomplishment.  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, I knew yesterday if I win that match, I become No. 1. To be honest, I was so nervous. I was, like, Oh, my God, I can't breathe. At the end we were playing amazing match. From the first point to the last, we were dominating the match.   
It's amazing achievement, but it's doubles. I have Su-Wei, who helped me. She helped me in so many ways to become No. 1 in the world. I have to thank her the most because she is amazing.   
 Q.  You enjoyed a lot of crowd support this week, especially Su-Wei. Talk about the atmosphere as well as your impressions of the tournament being here in Shenzhen.  
HSIEH SU-WEI: Before we come into Shenzhen, I was a little bit tired in Asia tournament because the singles and doubles was going too much. I was little bit hurting in the U.S. and Asia tournament. Okay, my goal is to do this, this and this. Finally I get into the (indiscernible) first match. It was very good for Barbora to help, as well. Thank you so much.   
Of course, the crowd was helping a lot. I was traveling every week almost different tournament, different city, different country. You always want to have a lot of support. After the half year, you start getting little bit tired, little bit too many match coming on the head. You start getting little bit free, wild, anything can happen. When people cheering for you, saying your name, Okay, I know I'm here now. They bring me back. It really helps.   
 Q.  Barbora, during Wimbledon we spoke with you a lot. You mentioned there you were not sure if you were going to be playing next year. Is that still where your head is at?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I don't know (laughter).   
No, I think I will be playing. Not I think, but I know that I am coming to Australia. It's one of my favorite tournaments over there. I love the country. I'm coming to play and compete over there, point (smiling).   
If there is another questions about if we continue playing with Su-Wei? Yes, we are continuing playing with Su-Wei.   
 Q.  Have you talked about pairing up again next year and definitely come back to Shenzhen and go one step further?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Well, we just finished 2019. We just made final in the Masters. We talked on the court, so we will continue playing. We just take it step by step. Another year in Shenzhen? It's in one year. I don't know what's going to happen in one week, so...   
We are playing first in Australia.   
 Q.  Obviously you are good friends, partners. What do you learn from each other?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: I mean, we are totally different characters. From my side, I learn the calmness. The relax time on court I have with Su-Wei, it's amazing. I can be very tense and emotional on the court. She help me to calm down. I can take it from her and I'm learning from her.   
And you? Nothing (laughter)? That's okay.   
 Q.  Barbora, in terms of thinking about your future, what are factors you are going to take into consideration in terms of your decision on how much longer you want to play?  
BARBORA STRYCOVA: Also I have to look at my body, how it feels. I really look forward to play. I really look forward to play in Australia. I don't want to think so in the future. I just want to take step by step. I don't want to think in a rush.   
Yes, I will be playing. I will try my hardest. We see. I think I'm a person who will know when it's time to go. But it's not yet.   
 Q.  Su-Wei, the other half of his question: What have you learned from Barbora this season?  
HSIEH SU-WEI: Yeah, because I'm not that kind of person try really hard every tournament. Once I do good in one tournament, I say, It's done. Next week, Okay, I want to go and eat something, find something fun. Barbora, she always fights every point. Okay, I'm going back to the court.   
I learned a lot. She was working really hard, try really hard. It makes me feel like I need to do more exercise, more practice. You see I was practicing little bit after I warm up with her.   
THE MODERATOR: Now Chinese questions for Hsieh Su-Wei.   
 Q.  You had two kids with you when you came here. Can you introduce them? You were with your little brother and sister. Does that have an impact on your performance? Do you have an overall plan for the whole familiar?  
HSIEH SU-WEI: Those are my brother's kids. My brother has two kids. His wife is working, so I was thinking I could have one kid with me.   
I live in France. I'm on the road all the time. I don't have that much time with my nephew and niece. I can bring them out and play with them. Don't forget they have an aunt, that's the plan (laughter).   
My brother and sister, next year is the Olympics, I think my brother has nothing to do with the Olympics. We want to play in the mixed doubles and the Grand Slams. This has always been a dream. This actually helps with the singles and doubles if I practice with him. In the mixed doubles, we can practice with him so I can face those powerful serves. In the singles matches, when I can practice in this way, that helps with my singles performance. I was practicing in an exhibition with my brother. I might have a lot of plans with him. That was the goal.   
And my sister last year in South Korea, we made it into a final. In the last 30 minutes I decided to play with my sister. I didn't want to play doubles. I wanted to take a break and focus on the singles in Wuhan and Beijing. Eventually all of these factors, I decided to play with my sister.   
I just want to try my best to get more points.   
 Q.  Your brother is also playing in Shenzhen. Did he come here to root for you?  
HSIEH SU-WEI: I didn't really pay attention. I knew he was champion. I congratulated him. I don't know if he is here because when I'm playing, I focus on myself. I wasn't focusing on other factors.   
 Q.  For the trip to Shenzhen, what's the overall feeling? First time here. I feel players might have different feelings.  
HSIEH SU-WEI: First time here. I see there are many ways for improvement. For example, center court and the practice court, it feels different on the surface. Purple is my favorite color. Every time I play in the matches, I feel it's great.   
We practice more on the practice courts. When I play on the practice court, the surface in the center court is more comfortable. I actually can transition very quickly between different surfaces. I can adjust pretty quickly when I play the matches.   
That was a little issue, but I made the adjustment very well. I really like it that the hotel is very close to the court. After the match, we can change and go out for food. That was very convenient.   
 Q.  Talk about your trip to Shenzhen. What ways can they improve?  
HSIEH SU-WEI: This is a very tough question. I want to say something happy. A lot of rice, Asian soup and noodles. I'm very happy. I'm always on the road. It's always spaghetti, Italian food everywhere on the road. I love to go to Italy. I love Italian food. But every day is just too much. Every day breakfast, lunch and dinner, it all gets monotonous. I don't want any western food when I go back to Taiwan. I want Asian food, Asian noodles, Asian soup.   
The tournament is really good in preparing Asian food for us.   
 Q.  Anything you learned from your partner? I would like to know from you your thoughts on your partner?  
HSIEH SU-WEI: I can't be really focused on each tournament. But I learn from her that even when she is tired, she practices a lot. She tries her best in the matches. Even when is injured, she tries to run, tries to cover the court. That's a big lesson for me. I need to work harder. I need to try my best in those matches.   
When I warm up with her, I try to practice more because I learn from my partner because my partner is working so hard. That gives me extra motivation.   
 Q.  After the final I could tell Barbora was quite emotional. She cried. You were quite calm. You've been in this position. Do you feel much motivation to come back to Shenzhen?  
HSIEH SU-WEI: I would say I'm a very laid-back person. I don't want to set too many goals. This year my goal is top 100 in singles. I always try to set a lower bar for myself because I get tired when I play too many singles matches. It's like eating too much spaghetti.   
When I reach a certain goal, I want to reward myself. I want to go to the Grand Canyon, I want to go hiking. I don't want to set too high a goal for myself. Once I reach a goal, then I will move my goal higher. I don't want to stress myself out.   
I need freedom. I need imagination in playing tennis. I want to enjoy my life. I want to enjoy tennis. In the evening, I always want to sneak out to eat local food. I had Beijing Peking duck. I went to a Shanghai restaurant here.   
Unfortunately our match was always the last in the evening, so I didn't have that much time to go out.   
 Q.  A question about your sister. There was a name change for her. Any special reasons?  
HSIEH SU-WEI: I'm an older sister. I don't interfere in their affairs. I don't know what happened. You have to ask her this question.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT