THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 7, 2018
Hsieh Su-Wei
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HSIEH SU-WEI/S. Halep
3-6, 6-4, 7-5
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. As you were serving for the match in the third set, you hit a fault, then you paused.  What was going through your mind at that moment?
HSIEH SU-WEI: Because last year I was play against Safarova, then I have two match point.  I make double-fault.  Then she had one match point, make double-fault again.
So today I have a fault.  Oh, my God, not going to be happen again.  People was kind of like laughing or say, Aah.  I go, I need cool down a little bit.  Was helping me cool down little bit.
Q. When you were 5-2 down in the third set, what was going through your mind?  How did you find a way to bring it back?
HSIEH SU-WEI: With the 5-2 down, normally you feel like, Okay, you are close to finish the match, so you got run harder.  You need to try to hit the ball little bit heavier.  Simona, the best player, they going to smash you at this moment.  I need to not going too much.  Like first set, I was a little bit tight, tried too much, every ball was little bit off.  I try to hang in there at 5-2.
Q. Do you think anyone enjoys playing you with your style?  Because Simona was crazy inside her head, struggling.  Your style of play upsets a lot of players, it's difficult, in a good way.
HSIEH SU-WEI: You sure (smiling)?
Q. Yes.
HSIEH SU-WEI: I don't know.  I think we have a lot of fun in Australian Open.  Like Kerber and I was running a lot on the court, so we have a lot of fun.  Even I lose the match, I was like, Oh, my God, I run so much, this is a good match, even I lost.  We were running so hard and fighting so hard for every point, this is great for me.
Because this age, you have a few injuries.  Always difficult to come back.  You still can running so much, competing those top-10 girls, so hard.
I was so enjoyed, yes.
Q. Nine of the top 10 seeds have gone out.  Is this a tournament now where the unseeded players think there might actually be a chance of winning?
HSIEH SU-WEI: I think all the girl not silly.  We don't thinking too much.
For me, I just try to enjoy the tennis and enjoy the city, enjoy the food.  I feel I'm really lucky to be a tennis player, stay here until the second week.  I'm very, very grateful and thanksful [sic] for about all this.
Q. Have you always been able to enjoy tennis as much as you clearly enjoy it now?
HSIEH SU-WEI: Since, like, I enjoy a lot, very much.  On the court I was more enjoy than before, too.  I like to do some different stuff.  I like to run.  It was really good, yes.
Q. I think in your TV interview you talked about how you've been eating a lot of strawberries and lobster this week.
HSIEH SU-WEI: There's a shop in London very famous now, called Burger & Lobster.
Q. You've been eating there?
HSIEH SU-WEI: This is my list every year for my team.  I will take all my team to the shop and then we enjoy it.
Q. Will you do that again tomorrow?
HSIEH SU-WEI: We need to find something new.
Q. McDonald's?
HSIEH SU-WEI: McDonald?  My nephew is really picky.  I need to ask my nephew first.  Before the afternoon tea, my nephew was like, Afternoon tea, afternoon tea.
I said, We will go before we play, relax, it's okay.
So I need to ask my nephew.
Q. How old is your nephew?
HSIEH SU-WEI: Six years old.
Q. Halep was saying how difficult it is to prepare to play you, especially on grass, because of how unpredictable your game is.  What was your plan going into this match to play her?
HSIEH SU-WEI: You mean this match?
Q. What was your plan?
HSIEH SU-WEI: Plan for the grass court season?
Q. For this match specifically.
HSIEH SU-WEI: Oh, this match.
I was play every day, so I was hope I can pass all my match every day.  I was not thinking too much because I was play the doubles yesterday, three set.  Was not easy.
Today I know she going to fight really hard, so I know I need to be try to be stronger as normal in mental.  I doing good today, so they is very important for me today.
Q. In Australia you talked about Su-Wei style.  That style beat Muguruza there.  Now it's beaten Halep.  How proud are you of the fact that your style of game can do this on the biggest stages, at the biggest tournaments, beat the best players?
HSIEH SU-WEI: Sometime can go good way, sometime not going good way.  It's important thing for me right now is I need to keep calm and keep concentrate on the court.  I was doing better this year, then I have my family and my boyfriend traveling with me.  I was getting all of the support from them every point.  So it helps a lot.
Q. You beat Muguruza in Australia, beat Radwanska in Australia, Konta at the French Open, now you beat Halep at Wimbledon.  How did you learn to be a giant killer?
HSIEH SU-WEI: I don't learn how to be giant killer.  I just want to feel free and enjoy the match.  You know anything can happen on the court.  You don't have big chance to win, because they're very good.  So all I want to do is just go on the court and hit the shot and run every point and enjoy it.
Q. How do you practice?  Do you have specific patterns when you practice?  Do you drive your practice partner crazy because you hit all kinds of crazy shit?
HSIEH SU-WEI: I normally drive the girl crazy before because when I practice, in two shots I do dropshot.  If I don't dropshot, I hit as hard as I can.  The girl is like...  Maybe I should have someone to travel with me and I don't drive the other girl crazy.
Now I am little bit better.  I try to practice normal with the girls, don't go too crazy on the dropshot.
Q. You talked about your mental toughness today.  At what point did you think down 5-2 you could win it?
HSIEH SU-WEI: I don't feel I can win this.  In 5-2, against this big player on the big court, you could get smashed, a love game like this.  It's not easy.  I just try to run as much as I can, try to catch every ball.  I'm doing good, so...
Q. The crowd seemed to be enjoying the way you were playing.  How much did you take from the energy they were giving you?
HSIEH SU-WEI: I was pretty concentrate on my match until the last point.  I was making the fall on my serve.  I was say, Oh, my God.  The crowd...  Okay, now I feel more relaxed.  It helps a lot.  Thank you.
Q. Who was your favorite player to watch?  Is everyone else just boring compared to you?
HSIEH SU-WEI: No, is interesting because before I don't really watch tennis much.  Now sometimes I watch.  I feel, Oh, maybe I can steal something from this player, this player, try to get something from this player, too.  It's fun to watch some match before.  Sometime you have a holiday, you watch a little bit.  I don't like to watchful match.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT