CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 25, 2011
Adrienne White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  ADRIENNE WHITE: It was nice. It felt really good today. I hit the ball well early in the week and just tried to keep it going into today, which, yeah, it felt good.

 Q. It rained a bit this morning and it was a bit wet. You were playing lift and place, right? 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Yeah, we were playing preferred lies, so it was nice. It rewards a good tee shot. I hit my driver well today and hit it well off the tee, so I got to take advantage of that quite a bit today. 
 It actually turned out nicer than I thought. I thought we were going to get more than we did.

 Q. Can you sort of sum up your season how it's been going? 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: It's been quite a roller coaster, actually. Not as well as I'd like it to go. I've had conditional status on the LPGA the last two years. It makes a hard year to set up a schedule and set up a rhythm when you're jumping back between Futures Tour and LPGA. 
 I got a start last week in Portland and just tried to get warmed up for this week.

 Q. Did that help getting used to the different conditions you have at these events? 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Absolutely. The courses here are set up a little different than Futures Tours. They're a little more difficult. The green speeds are a little quicker. It was really nice to get out there, get in the environment and get around the event again.

 Q. When you say conditional, what's that mean? 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: There are different types of status that you can have. There is exempt where you get into every full feed event. Depending on where you are in the money list, you can get into the full field as well. Then there is conditional status where basically I need people ahead of me not to play in order to to get in. But I got in this event through a sponsorship exemption from Golf Canada and CN.

 Q. Do you have a lot of family and friends at this event? 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Yeah, yeah, I have some friends and family that came in. Mom and dad are here. They're really excited about this event. This is a big event for my sponsor CVS Controls, too.

 Q. Do you still play ringette?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: No, I wish.

 Q. You were really good at it at one point. 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Yeah, I loved it. It is always my sport growing up. Golf kind of connected the seasons for me as a kid. I got to play on some Canada Games teams and some Alberta teams playing nationals. Yeah, loved it. Miss it a lot.

 Q. Did you pick up golf after ringette? 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: During. I started playing golf when I was 14, started competing when I was 15. As I approached graduation from college -- sorry, from high school -- I realized that golf could take me a little further than ringette, so I pursued it.

 Q. Would you call yourself a late bloomer, because 14 is late? Most of the women out here have been playing since they were four?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Right. There are players out here who are 14 (laughing).

 Q. Who look it. 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Yeah (laughing). So, yeah, I picked up the game pretty quick. I've always just kind of been going at my own pace. So experience is such a big thing out here, and I feel like I'm now starting to get some experience under my belt a little bit. I have a lot to learn yet, but I'm starting to build that foundation a little bit now.

 Q. He wants to know if you know the Senators. 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: My dad's pretty good friends with Brent.

 Q. How's that? 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: He played for the -- he's head coach of the Rebels, so my dad was a minor official with the Rebels, so he got to know him yeah, we used to know a couple players as well.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT