CN CANADIAN WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
August 27, 2010
Adrienne White
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. You've been getting starts this year?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Good question. It's been tough. I mean it's kind of been a tough year for everybody, I think, in that scenario. And I just gotta make the most of what I can get. 
 I knew as soon as I got status, I missed my full card by a shot, and I knew from that point on it was going to be a tough year and I had to make the most of the opportunities when they came.

 Q. You made the most of today. 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: I did. I did, yeah. I'm quite happy with today.

 Q. Can you tell us a bit of what sort of spurred on the round?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: I started off just sort of steady, hitting it well, missed a few putts early in my round, but I tried to stay patient, and I got one to fall at 9 and another one on 10 so that kind of got me going. And I knew the putts were dropping in, so I just had to keep hitting it close.

 Q. The quasi-hometown crowd help? We heard the cheer go off when you approached the final hole. 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Yeah. It's nice. You always want to play well in front of your home crowd, so it feels really good.

 Q. And how about making the cut in Canada? We've got three women now that have made the cut in Canada in the LPGA event. 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Good. I didn't know what the number was on that. So it's good. It feels good to represent our country well. 
 I know last year I don't think any of us made the cut. So it feels really good to be there and represent Canada on the weekend.

 Q. Is this the best round you've played in a while would you say?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: For a while. A few tournaments ago I shot 67, but I was 4-under as well. So I've been playing well. And I had a few bad rounds last few rounds I've played, but my confidence was still there. I tried not to let it get to me and just knew that the putts would fall soon.

 Q. Can you talk about your mentality going into the round knowing you would have to go low to make the cut?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Honestly, with the conditions of the golf course and the conditions with the weather and the wind I didn't think I would really have to go low, to be honest. I thought maybe even par one would do it before I started. And then as I kept going I thought maybe I can get it back to even for the tournament and I kind of kept resetting my goal as my round went on.

 Q. What are the keys for you for the weekend now?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: To keep doing what I'm doing. Take a lot of confidence from today. I learned a lot about the golf course. I played it really well today. I was very smart in how I approached the course today, so I'm just going to keep that going into the weekend.

 Q. Have you played this course before?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Not before this week, no. 

 Q. Learning experience. 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Yeah. I haven't played any of the courses we've played this year, so every week is a new week and a new golf course.

 Q. Has it been fun? Like you said, it's tough to get in, but have you enjoyed the first year?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: It's been a blast. I've loved every minute of it. And that's something else I've told myself coming into this year. There's not a whole lot to be certain about with not having a full card and not knowing how many events I get to play this year, so I thought, you know, if this is it for me, I'm going to make the most of it and have fun out here, so it's been great.

 Q. And you've been in how many tournaments?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Four now.

 Q. And you've made the cuts in all of them?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Yeah, yeah.

 Q. Will this help drive you now going forward?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Oh, yeah. 

 Q. Q-School for sure?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Absolutely new out here. I got to play with Cristie Kerr last tournament. And she's been on Tour longer than I'm playing golf. So every round I play out here is another round of experience for me, and it helps a lot. It helps me move forward and grow and mature as a player.

 Q. When did you start playing golf?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: I was 14.

 Q. Have you given up the ring yet?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Unfortunately, yes. I try and get on the ice and play hockey every once in a while when I get down to the States, but it's hard to come by down there.

 Q. Where are you living?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: I'm actually in Phoenix.

 Q. You might have qualified for ShopRite; right?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: I did, yes.

 Q. And then you got your number?
 ADRIENNE WHITE: I got in, yeah. 

 Q. Thanks, Adrienne. 
 ADRIENNE WHITE: Thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT