COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 28, 2017
Nacho Elvira
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Tied second; what's your assessment of that round?
NACHO ELVIRA: I started hitting the ball pretty well.  I think I was under control all the way through the last couple holes, and then my mind wasn't in the right place on a couple drives in the end.  But overall, I'm pretty happy.
Q. Is that what happened on 15?
NACHO ELVIRA: Yeah, definitely.  It wasn't that difficult of a tee shot.  The wind was blowing into us off the right a little bit.  It was just aiming a little bit right and for some reason, it was a little bit quick on my process and it was a bad drive.  I mean, I cannot judge a round over that drive.  I think it's a great round today with these wind conditions, and the pins were a little bit tucked today, so I'm feeling very happy.
Q. You narrowly missed out in Morocco last year.  What do you think you have to do tomorrow to nail your first European Tour victory?
NACHO ELVIRA: I guess I've got to keep doing what I'm doing.  I think what I'm doing is right.  I'm sticking to my process.  I think with my caddie, we are picking the right clubs, I guess pretty much all the time.
So just try to stay patient and let's see where that gets me.  I'm not going to try to rush anything tomorrow.
Q. 4-under, can I get your thoughts on that round?
NACHO ELVIRA: I think it's been a great round today.  Honestly.  I think I hit the ball pretty well.  I was in the right position most of the time.  I missed a couple shots coming in, but like I said, I cannot judge a round by a bad shot.  I think it's a great round today.
Honestly, 15 is playing on the back nine, I think the toughest hole that is playing on the back nine.  It wasn't playing maybe that tough today because it wasn't blowing as hard at the end, but obviously a tough hole.  And I guess didn't do my process mentally on that tee shot and that got me to miss my driver.
But I thought to myself, I still have three holes left, and 16 is a drivable par 4.  I hit a great drive.  I just didn't get it up-and-down.
Then it was a great shot on 17, and I managed to make birdie on 18.  It's always a par 5 you can always make a birdie, so I'm pretty happy finishing birdie, birdie.
Q. You're in strong position going into the final day tomorrow.
NACHO ELVIRA: Yeah, definitely.  I'm three shots back.  I'm happy where I am.  I think tomorrow is going to be a great day to see what it gets me.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT