SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 15, 2019
Ryan Agnew
Jesse Matthews
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SDSU 17
Fresno 7
Q. What was it like offensively to have it come together tonight, especially the way it did in the passing game? You were the first 300-yard passer in like 65 games, goes back like five years. Haven't been many of these nights in the offensive game in this program recently. How did that feel tonight?
RYAN AGNEW: It's awesome. Especially in a rivalry game like this against a great team in Fresno State. We were going to do whatever it takes to win. We're known as a team that runs the rock, but if they are going to stack the box and stop throwing, we have to be able to throw the ball.
We have guys like Jesse, Kobe, Elijah, Ethan, Parker, all making plays and they have been doing it all year. Great to see it all come together in one game and like you said to throw for that many yard, credit goes to the O-line protecting and the running backs and receivers making those catches.
Q. You connected with 11 receivers. How unique is it you were one of the receivers?
RYAN AGNEW: It would be unique if it was more than negative nine yards. I should have batted that down and then that would have been not negative yardage and then it would have been better. Yeah, I should have batted it down, it was a bad play by me.
Q. Have you ever caught a pass in your football life?
RYAN AGNEW: Yeah in, high school, I used to play receiver when I was younger. I like catching the football. It's fun.
Q. Jesse, you had a career-high eight catches, 119. What's it like to see the success early?
JESSE MATTHEWS: It's incredible. I mean, put so much work in practice every day, just try to build that chemistry with Ryan and all the quarterbacks and just seeing it come to fruition is pretty awesome. All credit to Ryan and the coaches for getting us ready to play.
Q. Can you describe that moment, the whole team rushing to the oil can, what was that like if you were in that scrum?
RYAN AGNEW: Chaos. Absolutely chaos. We were excited because Jesse has only been here for two years now, this is his second year. We've lost the past few years to Fresno State, and I remember the last time they won it, they ran on our sideline and grabbed it.
So when we won it, we were going to go over and chase that thing. We were excited to get the oil can back. It's not the pretties trophy, but it means a lot to us and we're excited to have it back in San Diego.
Q. What's been the most difficult part about finding consistency with the offense?
RYAN AGNEW: Probably the most difficult part is just seeing how great the defense has played. I mean, last week, we kind of squandered away a great defensive performance. The only frustrating thing is the defense is playing great.
We just got to control the football better. Can't have any turnovers. You know, throw the ball when we need to throw it. Run it when we need to run it and playing with that defense, you can get a lot of wins if you take care of the football and make your plays when they are there.
Q. Early, the call the red zone -- touchdown taken away on review, what resolve does it take to keep doing and make something positive happen?
RYAN AGNEW: Just resiliency. I remember Coach Hall before the game, "Just keep going. Just keep going." There's going to be some trials and tribulations, like you said, the blocked kick, the touchdown being called back, the fumble in the red zone, you just have to keep playing.
If you get your head down and saying, "Woe is me and it's not our night," when stuff like that happens, you have to brush it to the side and move on. That's the only thing you can do.
Q. You had 47 passing attempts. Was the game plan centered on passing the ball or did that just happen?
RYAN AGNEW: I wouldn't say we centered the game plan on throwing the ball or running the ball. Our game plan is to have great drives, make plays when they are there, but tonight, you know, Jesse was having a great game. Kobe was making catches. Eli was making great catches.
We felt like we had that match-up, and I trust these guys 110 percent. If I just give them a catchable football, you see they are going to make those catches. I think that's what the coaches saw, and when we put it up, we trust those guys fully.
Q. Maybe describe the moment on the third down play at the one-yard line, backed up on the goal line, you complete the long route down the sideline. You seemed very comfortable for a situation where you're standing in the end zone on third down?
RYAN AGNEW: I think the only reason I was so confident in that was I trusted the play call that came in. We knew what they were going to give us defensively and then I trusted Elijah. He's been doing it all year for us, even though he had a four-game stretch where he was hurt. He makes those plays even when people aren't watching. When he does it in a stadium on TV, it's like second nature to him honestly and I knew he was going to make that play. I just had to give him a chance.
Q. You guys ran 34 plays and had the ball for almost 12 more minutes than them. Was that the plan today?
RYAN AGNEW: I think the plan is always if you keep their offense off the field, they can't score points. Now, we have to do a better job -- we have 12 more minutes, right, 30 more plays; we've got to score more points than 17. We felt like we were playing really well. We just got to get more points on the board so then the defense isn't stressing as much.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT