U.S. JUNIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
July 18, 2019
Austin Greaser
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Emotional with your family right here.  Just tell me a little bit about how you're feeling in that match?  
AUSTIN GREASER: Yeah, I mean, I'm feeling good.  I feel like I'm firing on all cylinders right now.   
It's just really cool to be from Ohio and this tournament in Ohio only about two hours from my house.  I got a lot of people pulling for me.  I've had people on the range say, Let's go Austin, let's go, Greaser.  You know, they want to see an Ohio Bo go far.  It's really cool.  It's really exciting.   
That match was good.  I mean, I missed a short one on that one to win the hole and that kind of flustered me, and then got a weather delay.  Wasn't really the best start, but after that kind of everything kind of just went my way.  Made a few putts to really get up on him and didn't really look back.   
 Q.  Yeah, you won I think three of the first six holes.  What was working really well for you?  What was the key?  
AUSTIN GREASER: Putter.  I mean, I rolled the putter a lot -- I rolled the putter this round better than I have probably have any round I played yet.  I made a couple putts that he probably didn't think were going in.  Of course you got to kind of plan that way if you're in match play.   
But, yeah, I got the putter going and kind of capitalized when he made mistakes.  That's kind of match play, so...   
 Q.  Yeah.  Any of the birdies stand out to you as a big one, big momentum builder?  
AUSTIN GREASER: It wasn't a birdie, but the putt on 6.  I had about a 25-footer for par and he had about an 8-footer for bogey.  I drained my putt to not even give him a chance to make his putt to go 3-up through 6.  I mean, that's a pretty big statement.  You know, you've won half the holes.   
And I missed a four or five-footer on the first one, so I should have almost been 4-up.  So, yeah, that was probably one of the bigger putts of the match.  That's what probably first comes to mind probably.   
 Q.  First USGA championship and you're a quarterfinalist.  What does that mean to you?  
AUSTIN GREASER: Yeah, I mean, it means a lot.  When I step out here it's not to get quarterfinals or get to round of 32.  It's to go all the way.  I'm not trying to get top 10 or whatever.   
I don't want that to sound arrogant or whatever, but I don't like to lose and I'm giving it my all every time I step on the course.   
Yeah, it feels pretty good.  This is really a special event.  USGA does an amazing job, and it's really cool that Inverness has put this on.  It's a great place and it's been great hospitality all week.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT