BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 18, 2017
Charlie Callinan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  As a Jersey guy, is this kind of a home game for you?  
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Yeah, this is awesome.  Right when we found out we were going to get this bowl game I had a whole bunch of texts, calls, we're going to be there.  Got a lot of family coming in, just past coaches, past teammates, everyone.  So it's going to be great.  It's going to be a lot of fun and going to be a great way to end it out.   
 Q.  Talk about working with Darius?  He's been around a while, but since Connecticut and Syracuse, he's targeted ten different receivers.  Talk about how much progress he's made?  
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Yeah, he's come a long way.  He had a little game experience earlier in his career, got hurt, some things didn't go his way, but he's always been ready.  He's always been preparing like a starter.  Ever since then, we see it.  We all have faith in him.  I have so much confidence in him, and we're rallying behind him.  He's doing a great job for us, and he's going to help us win this game, we believe.  It's going to be a lot of fun to watch.   
 Q.  Is there any -- I wouldn't call it a war, but any gratitude that you get a chance to play so close to home -- you talked about the texts from coaches and family members and you're a captain -- as you get a chance to go back for that?  
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Yeah, it's a dream come true.  Where else would I rather play other than a National Championship?  I get to play in my backyard.  I grew up going to Yankee games.  New York City is the best place in the world to be during Christmastime.  Everyone knows that.  Like I said, it's a dream come true.   
 Q.  Are you going to put off shopping for gifts until you get there, and that way you can say, well, I might as well get the gifts while I'm here?  
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Yeah, I'm going to try to get that done a little bit this week.  We get a lot of sweet bowl gear from New Era and BC and everything.  So maybe I'll hit my siblings with a couple hats and shirts and let them enjoy some of the Pinstripe Bowl gear too.   
 Q.  Talk about playing Fenway Park and Yankee Stadium in the same season?  
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Oh, yeah, I mean, come on.  When is the last time that's happened, right, Jason?  Yeah, right.  It's awesome.  I mean, we've got two of the most historic ballparks in the world.  We were in the Fenway Park locker room and I was just kind of sitting there for a second like how many greats have come through here, sat in this locker room and gotten ready to play.  Even though it's not even football, it's sports legends.  It's just awesome.  It's a little piece of history that I'll never forget.   
 Q.  Your secondary (Inaudible)?  
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Yeah, yeah.  They've got some good players.  They play very sound football.  They know what they're doing.  They don't make a lot of mistakes.  We think it's going to be a really technique game.  It's going to be mono-a-mono, we know what they're doing.  They probably have a good idea on what we're doing.  Whoever has the best techniques is going to win.  Whoever plays toughest is going to win.  Whoever is better prepared.  So they've got a great team.  We respect them.  We hold them in high regard.  But we're not going to sit back and play scared or anything.  We're going to go at them pretty good, so it's going to be a lot of fun.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Yeah, I mean, they've got a similar -- they've got a regular quarter structure.  It's their base.  They play that very well.  They have a couple checks, very little pressures.  But when they do man up, they do a good job.  They like to break on routes quick, which has helped them with a lot of their interceptions this year.  Couple of them against Ohio State.  They've jumped a lot of the short routes, so I'm not going to tell you much about what we plan on doing.  But we know how to attack them, and I think we're going to do a great job of doing it.   
Coach Loeffler has done a great job, and Coach Gunnell, and they're getting us ready.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT