BOSTON COLLEGE FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 16, 2017
Charlie Callinan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Notre Dame - 49, Boston College - 20
Q. No matter where you are, how much do those kind of chunk plays affect a game?
CHARLIE CALLINAN: I mean, it's great whenever we have those chunk plays, we -- oh, our opponent?  If anything that motivates us.  We see that as we've got to go harder.  We've got to keep going next drive, next time we get the ball back we've got to push hard and go out and make plays and erase that, whatever they just did.  You know, if anything it brings us together, to answer your question.
Q. How deflating was that 4th and 1?  You're right there down by a point, you're in their territory, you get a stop --
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Yeah, I mean, as I'm sure you heard Coach Addazio say, that was a big turning point in the game, and I'm not one to comment on the offense as a whole, but we just tried to keep pushing after that.  Obviously that was tough because then they went back and had their big drive after that.  But our guys are working hard every day, and we weren't fazed by that at all.  We were ready to go and ready to re-bite and get back in there.
Q. Did you feel like offensively you guys were able to do some things, make a step from last week?
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Yeah, I feel like every week since the beginning of the season we've been taking strides, and this week was great in terms of throwing the ball.  We threw the ball a little better than we have in the past.  So next week we're hoping to take an even bigger stride and have a great game against Clemson.
Q. What did you see from Anthony this week?  Obviously he had a tough week last week.  What did you see from him throughout the week that kind of led into a bit of a bounce-back performance today?
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Yeah, you know, everyone, every quarterback is going to experience a bad week from my experience of being a fifth-year playing for four years.  Quarterbacks, they have tough weeks, and it's really about how they respond, which signifies how they're going to play the next week.  He's been awesome.  He really rallied the troops together.  We got a couple great leaders on this team, and he's one of them.  It's just great to see a young guy who's starting his third game to come back and have the poise and be a great player.
Q. Explain what happened on your catch for the touchdown on the 4th and goal.  Anthony made a fabulous play getting hit, throwing it off his back foot, you making the catch.  At the end what did you see on the play?
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Which, the second one?
Q. Yeah, 4th and goal.
CHARLIE CALLINAN: I went up, ran a wheel route, pulled it down, hit the ground and I secured it throughout the catch, and kid got his hand in there after I was on the ground.  I caught it, the ref saw it, they reviewed it, and they couldn't overturn it.  Yeah, it was a hell of a play.  Anthony made a great ball, threw it up, trusted it.  He trusted the receiver was going to be there in the spot that he needed to be, and he makes plays like that all the time in practice, so it's really no surprise to me, but it was a great way to come bounce back after the tough drive of the defense.
Q. You guys I think were down 15 after that play; when you're coming back to the sideline, what was the energy like, and obviously I would assume the feeling was you guys are definitely back in the game?
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Yeah, definitely.  It's a two-possession game at that point.  I don't know, it was probably beginning of the fourth quarter, and we expected to get four or five more drives in that quarter, and all we need is two touchdowns.  Do the math; less than half of the drives we're about to have we just need to score, so the game is fully in reach, energy was high, guys were pushing.  It was great to get that momentum swing back towards our way, and even for the defense, got them all excited, too.
Q. On that first touchdown you had, seemed like you had really tight coverage there.  What did you see on the throw from Anthony, especially with that tight window?
CHARLIE CALLINAN: You know, he threw a great ball.  We've been looking at that play a lot, and as of this whole week, the game -- I don't know if you guys watched the Georgia game last week, but a couple of their players had post routes on floods that were wide open and they beat the corners well, and the safety had a tough time getting backside over to cover.  So we knew there was a good possibility that that play would come open, so when he called that play, my eyes lit up, and I guess so did Anthony's, and he threw a strike right in there perfect position, and I got to go up and make a play, so it was a great job by Anthony.
Q. I know you say one game at a time, but talk about the games with Clemson you have coming up.
CHARLIE CALLINAN: Yeah, so I mean, biggest thing is sticking together.  There's going to be a lot of talk from students or press and media, just a lot of outsiders getting in our ears, and our biggest thing is that we're going to need to kind of tune them out, stick together, trust in the coaching, trust each other that we're all going to have each other's backs and go out there and give it our best shot against Clemson.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT