NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: NATIONALS VS CARDINALS
October 13, 2019
Jack Flaherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Hi, Jack. I'm calling all the way out from Puerto Rico. I'm wondering, what does it signify having Yadier Molina as a catcher of yours on the team? And also, what does it signify to you to be considered like an ace of the St. Louis Cardinals by Mike Shildt? And thank you so much for answering.
JACK FLAHERTY: Well, to have a guy like Yadi back there means everything. It's impossible to put into words what he does for us as a team and especially for us as a staff. He runs us. He makes our job really easy. It's easy to trust a guy back there. He's an absolute legend. So he really makes our job easy. He just lets us go out and really pitch our game and do what we want to do.
In regards to that about Shildty, I just try to go out and do what I can no matter what the situation is, no matter what it is, no matter what day of the week it is. I just try to go out and put up as many zeros as I can regardless of the situation.
Q. And a follow-up question to that, I wanted to ask you, what did it signify to you when your mom told you to try your best and also help out with your little brother? And that motivated you to keep going as a pitcher.
JACK FLAHERTY: My mom's been there for me every step of the way. She's helped me out. She sacrificed so much, it's impossible to quantify all that she's sacrificed for myself and for my brother. She's our motivator. She's our rock. She kind of does everything that we could ever ask for no matter what. It's kind of special to have her there every step of the way.
Q. What has surprised you by the lack of offense from the Cardinals knowing that you did so well in that Game 5 in Atlanta?
JACK FLAHERTY: The Nationals have executed. I mean, Sanchez went out there, and he executed for -- I don't know how long he was out there, but he executed his game plan. He mixed speeds. He hit spots. You look at the game yesterday and you go up against Max Scherzer. When Max Scherzer is gone, he's as tough as anybody to hit in this game. I think that's pretty easy to say right there.
We put some good at-bats together. Yesterday was tough. We had some shadows creeping in. We put some good at-bats together, but when you face a guy like Scherzer and he's on, he's as tough to hit as anybody in the game. As long as we keep putting good at-bats together and keep going out there and working towards our game plan, we'll be all right.
Q. Jack, the last visiting starting pitcher to start a game in Washington this deep or deeper into the postseason was Hal Schumacher for the 1933 New York Giants. My two-part question for you is have you ever heard of Hal Schumacher? And more to the point, are you able to sort of step back and appreciate the history of the events in baseball while you're in the middle of them while still obviously trying to be competitive at this point in the season?
JACK FLAHERTY: To your first question, no, I do not know who Schumacher was, but in regards to anything like that, I just try to stay within the moment and control the things that I can control and stay here and stay present and kind of look back on everything once the season's over with. Then I can look back and evaluate things like that or moments that are special moments or anything, I can look back on that once the season is over.
For the time being and the time we have right now, it's more about staying in the moment and working towards the next day and staying right here with these guys.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT