NL DIVISION SERIES: CARDINALS VS BRAVES
October 3, 2019
Jack Flaherty
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We'll start with Jack Flaherty.
Q. Can you sort of describe what it's like for to go into your first postseason start and being in this position here?
JACK FLAHERTY: Simply put, excited, just to be here with these guys, be in this situation. Know how far we've come through this season. And just any opportunity, looking forward watching Miles tonight and watching him go out do his thing and try to carry on what he does.
Q. Obviously there's some guys in that clubhouse with some significant postseason experience. Have you leaned on any of them to kind of get a grasp with what the stage is going to be like being on it for the first time?
JACK FLAHERTY: Yeah, I mean you look at guys like Waino, Yadi, those are the two obvious ones, but from a pitcher's perspective, Waino, it's the kind of thing I've said this whole time where he treats every game like it's the biggest game of the year. If you're able to do that, it will make situations like this easier, just mindset-wise, and atmosphere as well.
Q. Harrison Bader is getting the start in center field, can you describe from the pitcher's standpoint his importance from the defensive end?
JACK FLAHERTY: He's unbelievable. Having him out there, anytime the ball goes up, you just think he's going to get it, doesn't matter where it is or what happens.
He brings a spark, brings an energy about him. He's excited to play no matter what. You can see it in his eyes and just the way he goes about had game. He loves being out there, doesn't matter the situation, doesn't matter what's going on, but he loves being out there.
But having him in center field, the way he goes and gets the ball and no matter what goes on, anytime the ball goes up, you think he's going to go get it.
Q. You faced the Braves twice this season, second start a really good against them. What stands out the most to you, what's the most challenging thing about this Atlanta lineup?
JACK FLAHERTY: It's a deep lineup. They've got professional hitters up and down; they've got professional hitters, guys who are exciting.
No matter what, then you get guys who get on base and they can run a little bit. So they just put good at-bats together no matter what, don't really give any at-bats away. As long as we go out execute our game, execute what we need to do, we'll be in a good position.
Q. You've obviously been through a lot off the field. Kind of curious how have you managed to stay grounded?
JACK FLAHERTY: I think staying grounded has been something that I was raised to be. My mom was always like that. She always preached being humble and just kind of being ourselves, never forget where you came from. But everything that's gone on off the field with the guys in the clubhouse, the guys we have on this team, they make it easy. They've always -- we all have each other's back no matter what's gone on, and guys go through things that people don't really ever hear about.
So it's just everybody in there has each other's back, and the support system that we have throughout the team and then throughout my family and whatnot. So just those people around me make it easy.
Q. Do you find in a way you are pitching for Tyler?
JACK FLAHERTY: Yeah, absolutely. I mean, he's on my cleats. I write his initials and his number in the dirt right behind the mound when I start. Every time I get the ball I kind of come from behind the mound and I see it, see it every time kind of before, not necessarily before every pitch but before every hitter. No matter what goes on, I see his name, his initials right there. He's always with me. I can feel him. You just feel that energy. So, yeah, I'd say so.
Q. Would it be reasonable to describe your second half as historic in terms of the success you've had? If you take that to a next level here in the postseason, what does that do to put this season in a broader context for you?
JACK FLAHERTY: I don't think I'm going to try to go out and do anything more. Every game that we had in the second half we went out and played well.
And for myself it was if I was to try and go out do anything more try to get, do anything extra to try to get any better, that's where you kind of try to do too much. So just going to try to stay right there and continue to do what I've been doing and not try to do anything extra or do anything more just because of the situation and the circumstances.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT