U.S. OPEN
September 1, 1992
Ann Grossman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.   How does this rank up there with some of your best wins?

 ANN GROSSMAN:  I say this is definitely my best win.  I beat
Zvereva, like three years ago, maybe in Chicago, when she was
sixth in the world but I mean this is the U.S. Open.  Every player
is at their best here.  This is my greatest achievement ever.
 Last week I beat Novotna and she was ranked ten.  I beat her,
last week.  Then I lost to Conchita on Friday, and I actually
got beaten by her pretty, I mean I played awful in the first set.
 Then the second set, I started coming back.  So I had a lot more
confidence coming into this match then ever before.  I think playing
her last week helped me a lot because I knew I could maybe take
her down here.

 Q.   What was the difference between Friday and today?   
 

 ANN GROSSMAN:  It was all mental.  I think tennis is just like
the biggest mental game of all time.  I mean, tennis is all mental;
99% mental and physical.  I have been working on my mental a lot
off the court, and it has definitely paid off.  My coach has done
a great job, Donnie Young, with me.  Ever since my fathers died,
he has been my coach, so it has been a long road.  It is just
the best ever because I've been through so much, and so it is
the all time best.

 Q.   How much does the team tennis help you coming into the
Open?  Do you expect it would give you this kind of help?

 ANN GROSSMAN:  Yeah, I mean I got to play a lot of matches, in
that way because I think the Olympics and the Fed Cup wouldn't
have given me that many chances to play.  I think that definitely
helped me keep intact and work on a few things coming in and stuff.
 It was all right. It was good for it.

 Q.   When you get close to the end of an upset, do you have
to keep forcing yourself to keep steady and not get timid, or
back off?

 ANN GROSSMAN:  Yeah, I started at 5-3, I started backing off
a little bit, and I was like come on, in you got to keep going
for it.  If you lose this match, you wouldn't be able to sleep
for the next month, so, I was just praying to God, please gift
me give me opportunity, you know; but you know, it all worked
out great I played really well.

 Q.   Describe the bracket that you are in and what lies ahead?

 ANN GROSSMAN:  I have no idea.  I have no clue.  I actually went
out to the watch the match.  That is the only thing I know because
my coach said if you win, you might play this catch let us go
check.  You know, let us take it a set at a time.  I actually
went out to watch her.  I feel great, just I just mentally want
to be prepared, and that is my biggest goal is just to go out
and play every point one at a time, and do the best I can.

 Q.   What do you do mentally to improve?  What have you done?

 ANN GROSSMAN:  I don't know, you know I lost my father about
a year ago and I don't know how many months ago, and it has just
been so brutal on me, he was my coach.  He taught me every since
I was 4, and it is just and it kind of like-- I just remember
all these things about him and how hard he was on me, and I grew
up on a farm and everything was a struggle, and I think that tennis
has to be a struggle to be the best.  But actually, it doesn't.
 I am working with a guy named Chris Anderson.  He is not a psychologist
like a metaphysics guy.  I talked to him like about once a week.
 He makes me like do things at night, like writing to my dad,
and you know, forgiving myself, and forgiving him, and how hurt
he was on me, and I mean it is just there is just so many things
that has happened, and that is what I have to overcome, is just
that ability to get all that stuff out of my life that has caused
me to stay where I am.  I have been 50 for the past four years,
and I was going psycho.  I am like, what is my problem, you know,
I mean I know I can beat these players.  I hit the ball just as
well as anybody else, but why aren't I winning, you know, and
it is always believing in yourself that you can go out there and
compete with the best that is what I have done, you know.

 Q.   Conchita has been injured lately.  Do you think that
had anything to do with it today?

 ANN GROSSMAN:  You know, maybe it did.  But you know, I can't
-- there has been a lot of times when I have been injured, and
I don't know what was really wrong with her. I know her arm has
been sore for a long time.  I played her like 3 times this year
and it has been hurting every time, so, you know, I don't know
what it is like, so.

 Q.   First time you belt Conchita?

 ANN GROSSMAN:  Yeah.     

 Q.   Talking about the mental aspect, did you find her also
waving?

 ANN GROSSMAN:  Yeah, I think she is really talented, and you
know, I haven't played Seles, I haven't played Graf, but you know,
I mean I just think she is so talented.  She hits the ball so
well, I think like you know like a Sabatini and them, I think
she definitely has the ability to be up there.  I think it is
really mental for her.   

 End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT