MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 15, 2016
Lee Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Strong round overall and a really good finish.  How did you feel about today?
LEE LOPEZ: Pretty good.  I've definitely been hitting the ball really well for a couple weeks now, so it was nice to drop some putts towards the end and have a good round.
Overall just tried to stay patient, and it worked out well.
Q. You've had really good results in your last two starts.  Anything in particular you've been working on or something that's been different clicking for you?
LEE LOPEZ: Yeah, I was actually able to see my coach last week for the first time in two months because I've been on the road for so long.
It was really nice.  He worked with me on my putting, which I think was key.  I've been putting really, really well.  Everything else has been really solid.  I think the putting has made the difference.
Q. What is your coach's name?
LEE LOPEZ: Bob Lasken.
Q. Is it normal to go that long without seeing him, or is that just the product your schedule?
LEE LOPEZ: Yeah, definitely just my schedule.  F I could, I would've definitely flown over to California and seen him.  It's been a long stretch, and as a rookie you don't have the luxury of choosing.  You would rather just play in every event.
Plus, I haven't seen these courses before.  I want to see which ones I like.  It's been fun.  It's hard to choose which ones not to play in, so I've just decided to do all of them.
Q. You guys ever do like video chat or anything?
LEE LOPEZ: Definitely.  I send him a lot of videos.  Basically every day.  Yeah, we keep in touch a lot, and we've made to work really well so far.
Q. Pretty cool to see your name on the leaderboard with another UCLA Bruin, Alison Lee, right?
LEE LOPEZ: Yeah, it's been awesome.  Says a lot about our coaches and our program.  I think there is, I don't know, maybe eight of us out here.  It's exciting, and it's been nice to come out (plane interference.)
I think it says a lot about our program and our coaches and what they do to prepare us for the next level.
Q. First time to this course?
LEE LOPEZ: First time.
Q. You must be enjoying it, especially after a day like today.
LEE LOPEZ: Yeah, it was a lot of fun.  It's always nice to make birdies.  Overall just trying to take it day by day.  We got some nice weather today.  Fans are awesome.  Good day.
Q. Is the difference the putting?  You birdied four of the last five.
LEE LOPEZ: Yeah, I've been hitting a lot of fairways overall and getting myself in good spots off the tee to get it pretty close to the pins.  Overall I've been dropping putts, so it's been fun.
Q. You're in a good spot right now.  How do you keep this going the next two days?
LEE LOPEZ: I think just do the same.  Have to keep working, still have to keep preparing for the rest of the season.  So just try to get a little better every day and that's it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT