U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 11, 2015
Lee Lopez
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  Maybe not score-wise the best round, but it will be memorable?  LEE LOPEZ: Definitely memorable.  You know, it's not the score I wanted, but it's not every day you get to play in the U.S. Open.  So pretty happy with my day today.   Q.  You go into the weekend with a hole-in-one, that's not too shabby either?  LEE LOPEZ: It's a pretty special one.  My other hole-in-one was at a little par-3 course when I was 15, so I think this is a tad bit more special than that one.   Q.  Take me through the whole sequence, club, weather, wind, whatever was going on at the time.  LEE LOPEZ: I believe we were 151 at the pin, slightly into the wind, so we tried to play it about 155 just right of the pin.  I remember I hit the shot and it looked pretty good and I was a little upset about my hole before that.  I had a 3-putt, so I remember just picking up the tee and thinking that's a good shot, on the green, let's go work on that speed control now.  Then all of a sudden, I hear my caddie go, "Go in."  I looked up and it goes in the hole.   Q.  What club did you hit?  LEE LOPEZ: 6-iron.   Q.  Was there any wind?  Sometimes you get up to a tee and you are sometimes between clubs and you are not sure what to hit.  Was there any hesitation?  LEE LOPEZ: No, not at all.  We knew that was the club.   Q.  You heard your caddie say, "Go in."  What was your reaction?  LEE LOPEZ: I think it took a little while to sink in.  The crowd was unbelievable.  That was probably one of the loudest roars I've ever heard.  I think that's what made it even more special.  It was a lot of fun walking down to that green.   Q.  You say it's a tad bit more special.  Really, how does that -- what is that emotion that runs through you when you walk down to that green and there is your ball smack in the middle of the hole?  LEE LOPEZ: Especially here at the U.S. Open.  I'm not sure, it's so hard to describe.  It's what you practice every single day, day in and day out, and to have it pay off on a hole like this, on a day like today, in front of a huge crowd, it was really fun.   Q.  And tomorrow, trying to move up, getting a better score.  Anything in particular you want to focus on to get up the leaderboard?  LEE LOPEZ: Definitely my hybrids.  I struggled a bit with my long clubs today, so probably go to the range and hit some balls.  But for the most part, I've been playing pretty good golf.  Just tune that up and try again tomorrow  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT