MEDIBANK INTERNATIONAL
January 8, 2007
Nicole Pratt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q.  Congratulations. 
 NICOLE PRATT:  Thanks. 

 Q.  How does that win rank in your career? 
 NICOLE PRATT:  It definitely ranks up there.  I mean, I'm not sure -- what's Dinara's ranking? 

 Q.  No. 10. 
 NICOLE PRATT:  The only other win I've had against a top ten player was Sandrine Testud when she was top ten, so I guess it's my second win against a top ten player. 
 I'm just wrapped.  I'm really excited.  Obviously I knew she was in good form coming in from winning the Gold Coast but also knew she'd be a little tired, so I wanted to take advantage of that and make it a physical contest, and I did.  I kept it close enough in the first set that I felt like I was really close to winning the first set and I had some great points, so yeah, I'm really pleased. 

 Q.  How did it feel at this stage of your career? 
 NICOLE PRATT:  I'm just taking every win that I can get.  Basically this year's goal for me is just accumulating matches, and ultimately I felt like I wanted to go out this year and win matches that I should win against players and basically just swing away at players that maybe I'm not meant to beat, but I do believe I can beat those players, but I've got to allow myself mentally to swing and allow myself to do that.  You know, that's the goal this year.  I'm just enjoying every moment I can.  I feel like I'm in bonus years, and I'm just trying to make the most of it. 

 Q.  How many bonus years will there be do you think? 
 NICOLE PRATT:  Honestly, I've pretty much said it -- I'm going to say it all summer, to me it's a day-by-day proposition.  I'm keen; I love working out.  I feel like I'm hitting the ball great, and for me it's just -- it's physical, and as long as I feel good physically, then I'm going to keep going, and as long as the enjoyment is there.  So to be honest, I don't know how long I've got. 

 Q.  Do you think you frustrated her emotionally out there tonight, especially the second set? 
 NICOLE PRATT:  Well, that was part of the game plan.  Part of the game plan was I wasn't going to give her an inch.  Even if she was up in score, I was pretty much going to be there mentally, emotionally, and basically say to her that I'm not going away.  I'm going to stay here, and if you want to win this match, you've got to win it.  I'm pretty proud of myself for doing that tonight. 

 Q.  She didn't seem to particularly like that attitude down there. 
 NICOLE PRATT:  Well, that's about being a competitor.  I don't think I was over the top at all.  I was excited when I hit good shots or we had a great rally and I was enjoying the moment, and hopefully the crowd enjoyed that, as well. 

 Q.  Was it part of the game plan because she's vulnerable in that area? 
 NICOLE PRATT:  She's vulnerable mentally, yeah.  At different times in matches I knew I'd get a window of opportunity because she can go off, and there's a few suspect areas in her game that I knew and I wanted to take advantage of.  Fortunately for me the conditions, the wind is a lot different from the Gold Coast where there's a sail over the top.  So I knew a little bit breezy conditions would be in my favour. 

 Q.  It's been a good day for Australian women's tennis. 
 NICOLE PRATT:  Yeah, a very good day.  I think we all won today.  I mean, everyone is giving 110 percent.  We're all in good shape, and we've all kind of got different stories at the moment, Alicia is coming back, I'm sort of I guess in my twilight, and Sam is just -- she's bursting through basically.  She's got a real opportunity to break the top 20, top 10, and the best time for Australian women's tennis is if we're all doing well and pushing each other, so hopefully we can keep the momentum going. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT