AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2005
Nicole Pratt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Looked as if you were digging yourself in in the second set there?

NICOLE PRATT:  Yeah, I felt like I was kind of starting to finally find some sort of rhythm out there.  I had a few points to probably get a lead on the score board.  So, you know, unfortunate I didn't convert.  But, yeah, definitely much better in the second set than the first. 

Q.  Where is your game at the moment?  What's your plan overall? 

NICOLE PRATT:  Well, unfortunately, my game was basically the best it's ever been prior to sort of injuring my knee day after Christmas.  So unfortunately that sort of set me back.  I've just sort of had to play catch-up to get ready for the Australian Open.  You know, I'm just falling a little bit short with match play, and probably, you know, a little bit of fitness I missed out on that I was looking to do in the, you know, week, two weeks prior to the Australian Open.  But, you know, I've just got to sort of get back into it, probably use now these next two weeks to get on top of things again and get ready for Tokyo singles there.  But obviously I'm playing in the doubles here and looking to have a good tournament. 

Q.  Had you lost in the first round before? 

NICOLE PRATT:  Australian Open? 

Q.  Yes. 

NICOLE PRATT:  Yes, yeah.  Yeah, I have.  But last few years, I've obviously had good results here at the Australian Open.  So, you know, disappointing to go out in the first round.  But, you know, unfortunately opponents are pretty tough these days. 

Q.  What do you think of Alicia's sudden emergence?  What is your take on that? 

NICOLE PRATT:  You know, like Alicia said, and I agree with her, it hasn't been sudden.  She's been working hard and, you know, putting her game together.  And probably the biggest thing that people probably don't realize is she's actually really matured as a person.  I think she's really comfortable with herself and what she's trying to achieve.  You know, I think she should be very proud of herself, how she's handling the situation.  And obviously has put herself in a good position to do really well this year. 

Q.  Even so, to see her fourth favorite with the bookmakers, is that a bit surprising?

NICOLE PRATT:  Yeah, it's quite funny.  I've been doing a radio show, SEN.  We were commenting I think about a month ago she was 25-1 when we first started talking about it.  I think her odds have shortened to 6-1. 

Q.  6.50. 

NICOLE PRATT:  Yeah, 6.50.  To see her probably fourth or fifth favorite for the Australian Open is probably a little bit surprising but not due to her form going into the Australian Open.  You can't replace or substitute winning matches, and that's what Alicia's been doing.  So, you know, she's been putting herself on the line and winning those matches.  You know, if she can get her teeth into the tournament, I think she can obviously do very, very well. 

Q.  Your opponent today, what was your take on her, how she played?

NICOLE PRATT:  Yeah, I mean, she is solid, I think a solid player.  She's always going to make you play a lot of balls.  You know, I felt like -- I played her in July last year and I beat her.  I felt like I had the game to beat her.  But, you know, unless you've played sort of a few matches and you get those under your belt, you start to get into a rhythm.  I just feel like I'm just short on match play, short on finding that rhythm.  It's about sort of getting that back.  As much as you try and play practice sets, it's just not the same as going out there and playing a match. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT