OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 18, 2004
Nicole Pratt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 


Q.  Nic, bad luck.  Was pretty one-sided.  She played damn well?

NICOLE PRATT:  Yeah, ran into I think a steam train today.  No, she played well.  Didn't really give me an opportunity to get into the match at all.  Surprised me by coming out and serve and volleying.  But, you know, little disappointed, you know.  Would have liked to have obviously had a better match.  But when your opponent, you know, plays well and they're No. 1 in the world, it's going to be a pretty tough task.

Q.  Any difference playing on the center court, seeing that all your matches have been outside?

NICOLE PRATT:  Yeah, a little different.  I think I was a little bit further back in the court than I was in my previous matches.  So I'd like to sort of get a tape of the match and actually see where I was in the court.  But, you know, I probably could have been a bit further in the court. 

Q.  US Open next. 

NICOLE PRATT:  Yeah.  Made the third round US Open last year.  You know, hard court's my favorite surface so I'm certainly looking --  I, I think, play well in those conditions there in New York.  So I'm certainly looking forward to it.

Q.  Granted, it was very disappointing, but because it was such a one-sided score line, is it easier to put that out of your mind rather than if it had been much closer and a loss?

NICOLE PRATT:  Oh, not really.  I think a loss is a loss and you want to learn from it.  I'm going to sort of have a think about the match a little later on tonight and certainly write down some notes.  You know, Justine is a player that I'm looking to emulate.  So I can take a lot from that match and know sort of where my game's at and different aspects I need to improve on to make sure that, you know, next time I face her or another, you know, top player, that, you know, my game, you know, is still improving.  I really need to get back to that and know that I'm still improving and getting better.

Q.  But it's been a great experience being here?

NICOLE PRATT:  Yeah, no, I've really enjoyed the week here.  It's a fairly unique environment.  Not sure if I'll be around for the next one.  But, no, I've really enjoyed myself this week.

Q.  Will you hang around or leave pretty soon?

NICOLE PRATT:  I think I'm going to leave pretty soon.  I might stay tomorrow and watch Alicia play and head off because we've got a tournament next week in Forest Hills.  So, no, unfortunately can't stay around. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT