OLYMPIC TENNIS TOURNAMENT
August 17, 2004
Nicole Pratt
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Questions. 
 
 
Q.  What happened in the first set, slow to get moving?
 
NICOLE PRATT:  She played unbelievable.  She really didn't miss a ball, didn't allow me to get in the match.  She was, you know, serving really big first serves.  You know, I was hitting a few short balls and allowing her to play, you know, really well.  But, no, I got it together in the second.  She started to make a few more errors, and then it was just a matter of I think grinding her in the ground would be the word (smiling).  
 
Q.  Can you talk about your next match, please. 
 
NICOLE PRATT:  Yeah, it's a match definitely I'm looking forward to.  When I saw the draw, I, you know, saw that Justine was obviously at my end of the draw.  I've had a couple of different matches with Justine.  I played her at the Australian Open a couple of years ago and sort of a close second set.  First set I don't think was too close.  But I know her style of game well; she obviously knows my style.  I'll have to play considerably better tomorrow than I did today.  But, no, I'm looking forward to the challenge.  
 
Q.  Three matches against her or is this the third? 
 
NICOLE PRATT:  Well, we played in Fed Cup, as well.  Yeah, I played her maybe three times, three or four times.  
 
Q.  Obviously a special occasion to play the world No. 1 at the Olympics. 
 
NICOLE PRATT:  Oh, definitely, yeah.  I think playing at the Olympic Games is totally different from playing at a normal tour event.  It's similar to Fed Cup in that it's a team environment, but then it's quite unique that it's an individual event.  So, no, I'm really enjoying the team aspect side of it.  You know, I know that my team's behind me to go out there and win tomorrow.  
 
Q.  Do you draw any confidence from the fact that the girl you beat today actually beat Justine at the French Open?
 
NICOLE PRATT:  Yeah, definitely.  Like I know -- I actually saw the match at the French Open.  I guess the first set I realized she must have been playing like that when she played Justine.  But, yeah, I mean, we have similar style games.  I think I match up quite well against Justine.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT