NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: CAPITALS v RED WINGS
June 12, 1998
Todd Krygier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TODD KRYGIER:  Obviously we are disappointed about the loss.  But I think we worked very hard to get here.  No one said it is going to be an easy road.  I think overall our attitude is positive and optimistic and we made some mistakes last game to let them -- to forego two, two-goal leads in the third period and let them back into into it and they eventually win the game.  We have to learn from those mistakes and go into the next game being persevering and working hard.  I think there is a couple of different game plans to do that, but I think the most important thing is whichever one we choose, we have to stick to that.  We can't get a lead like we did yesterday and you know, that really affected us. 
 

Q.  What about in terms of coming home, how much of a boost is it?
 
TODD KRYGIER:  It is definitely going to be a boost rooming home.  Our fans have been great and very supportive all the way through the Playoffs and we are going to work hard.  We are going to continue to persevere.  I think that is what is most important and hopefully we will pull out -- all that really matters is the next game.  The game, you know, 4, 5, 6, 7, those don't matter.  Right now all that matters is Game 3 and that is the one we have got to be focused on. 
 

Q.  Game 3, a must?
 
TODD KRYGIER:  Obviously it is a must.  Every game for us is a must.  We have four wins to the Cup and they have got two wins to the Cup so obviously it is a must. 
 

Q.  Do you get anything out of a game like -- positive from last night's game?
 
TODD KRYGIER:  I think that the positive thing is that we did have two, two-goal leads, you know, obviously the negative thing is that they win the game.  So, after the first game we carried that momentum into the next game and then you know, we blew it.  So, I think there was positive and there is negative.  I mean, it is all what you are going to take out of it.  I think the most important thing is how we respond next game. 
 

Q.  Here is a big team that has got a big record and you scored on them.  You regained your lead after you lost it. That has got to be something that the players say to themselves:  We can do this week beat this team?
 
TODD KRYGIER:  Yeah, I don't think we have ever said we couldn't do it.  It just hasn't happened for the first two games.  All along we feel as though we can compete and we can win and it is -- just we beat ourselves last game.  And that  is the frustrating part about it when you are in the Finals and you have two two-goal leads in the third period and you end up losing, I mean, that is, you know, ourselves.  And I think that is part of the, you know, experience and we just have to go into Game 3 and follow our game plan and stick to our systems and we will be able to pull it out. 
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT