U.S. WOMEN'S MID-AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
September 18, 2019
Andrea Kosa
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You had some really incredible shots out there today.
ANDREA KOSA: I had some interesting things happen, yeah. It was good.
Q. What were a few that come to top of mind?
ANDREA KOSA: Well, 16, my drive, I pushed it way right and it's sitting up on a nice little island tucked on the other side of the bunker, like, wow, there's even water back there. Go thing I didn't push it further. Sitting on the grass -- I'm like, great, don't mess up something lucky. So then I hit a really good iron shot in there. Then the putt, I just said right edge, nothing to lose, you just have to hit it hard and just get it there and it went in, so that was pretty cool. That was probably the highlight.
Q. Lauren had one, too on that hole.
ANDREA KOSA: She did. She was coming down hill the other way. A little tricky when they are downhill. Hers just missed.
Q. And then 17, obviously there was a chance there?
ANDREA KOSA: It broke off quickly. I re-aligned and took more, hit it hard at the center and that takes away any of the nerves and the breaks. Just hit it there. I took a little bit more break. I'm like, yeah, nothing like it breaking more and it still went more than that.
Q. 18, that's win of the best pitch shots I've ever seen. To knock it down there within gimmie range, how were you feeling standing back there?
ANDREA KOSA: Well, I know you're supposed to expect them to make it, but I was like, that's a tricky putt that she had, too. Like par should be good. Just pitch up there, land it and let it release and maybe have a 4-footer for par, that's fine, you can deal with that. It worked out even better than that.
My husband called and he's like: How did she birdie 18?
30 feet off the fringe, slam dunked it.
My mind-set was expecting to play 10. Because she's got nothing to lose there, either. She's going to cram it in the hole.
Q. You have to really just expect. If you don't expect it to happen, you're going to be all rattled, right. So you just have to may as if she's going to be ready to go to the next hole, and you battled for three more holes?
ANDREA KOSA: Which is incredible, because I haven't played 10 well at all this week. I had to play it twice and I feel pretty proud.
Q. You tied for a record, most holes played in a quarterfinal match.
ANDREA KOSA: We could have gone more.
Q. I don't think she makes that birdie?
ANDREA KOSA: She would have been tighter, too.
Q. The week as a whole, on your own, making friends, what's the vibe of the week been like?
ANDREA KOSA: Well, it's been very supportive. I bought myself -- I'm now like an honorary member in my heart of this club. Everyone's been supportive. Everybody's giving me high-fives and a lot of people shocked about, where's your caddie and I'm like, that's me. They were supportive, saying, that's great, go for it. Everybody's embraced me for that.
We had four Canadians here and even though they have left, they are all still cheering from afar. They are like, you can do this any given day. So it's nice to have that support from afar and here, as well.
I mean, you meet new friends, like Arlene, she's this member here housing one of our Canadian group and she's adopted me since they left and taken me out to dinner. It's nice. I'm alone but I'm not, and I'm really comfortable here.
Q. You're talking at home every night about how you are doing and they are watching the scores and know you have been doing fantastically well. How else is it to be talking at night after your day, is it emotional?
ANDREA KOSA: No. Anti-emotion. I'm like, do you have the kids ready for tomorrow and do you what you need to do?
Sorted, don't have to worry about us. Don't have to pack lunch today. Just those little things, check the boxes. He says, go play, go do it. On any given day, that's been the theme. On any given day, you can beat anybody. Just play and be consistent and do your best.
Q. You played this in 2011 and this is the first time back, right?
ANDREA KOSA: Yeah.
Q. Is that mainly because of family responsibilities?
ANDREA KOSA: Yeah, family and injuries, I would call that, from having babies. It's harder to get the body moving in the right direction sometimes. So I struggled for a few years with some strength and some control and my golf game was wild.
Q. Did you have any specific goals in mind as far as getting your game back to a level? Was this a goal in itself to get back to this championship?
ANDREA KOSA: Absolutely. The best way I describe this championship is this is the biggest championship for someone over 25 that's not professional. This is the biggest one in the world. I don't know of any other tournaments that are as spectacular as this and have such history -- this is what I remember from 2011 is going to the dinner and having everyone standing up.
I was fortunate to play with Martha Leach and Ellen Port in the practice round and I didn't know who they were but afterwards, I'm like, Holy Cow, this is amazing. It's such an honor to be part of that and that's why I wanted to come back is to be with the best. These guys are the best of over-25ers in the world, I think, I really do.
Q. You mentioned Ellen and Martha, and there's some camaraderie among the players, along with how good they are. You probably didn't have to think too long to feel like you belong.
ANDREA KOSA: That's neat, and it's like, hey, you know this person from Canada. It's the golf community. It's not that big, especially when you get into more competitive events. We all kind of support each other and follow each other from there.
Yeah, you mention one person and they know this person and all of a sudden, you're in, kind of thing.
Q. We were both just at the senior Women's Amateur and Judith was there -- you're pretty close with them and have you heard from a lot of those players this week?
ANDREA KOSA: They are in Europe playing in two amateur events, so I haven't really heard from them. But more I guess our other local crew that played in the Canadian Mid-Amateur senior group.
Q. Another strong contingent of people that play from Canada. You guys are pretty tight, right?
ANDREA KOSA: We are, and I mentioned it, like I'm the physio for the national team program, and those were the neat messages, too, that I got back from the players that are on the LPGA, that are on the Symetra Tour, and some of the college players that I worked with, and it's nice to see them, director of golf from Golf Canada, they are like, hey, keep going, you are one of us. You're not just a physio. You're actually a golfer, too. It's nice to see that, that support. That was really neat, actually.
Q. Obviously very proud of you. Some of the players, can you mention any names of people we would know?
ANDREA KOSA: She's injured. Don't hold that against me, but Jaclyn Lee. She's from Calgary. Brittany Marchand, AC, she all sent me players, mad die from the Symetra Tour, a bunch of our college players and stuff like that.
Q. So how does that work with the national team, you're in Calgary? How do you work with the players?
ANDREA KOSA: We travel on camps so they have camps in November and January and May, June, and we do all our evaluations. The rest of it is basically Skype over the phone, text, something crops up. We develop programs and send them to them.
Q. So you go south in November for the camps? Where do they travel to?
ANDREA KOSA: Last year we were in Orlando but usually we're in the Phoenix area. I never know until November rolls around and I get my plane ticket.
Q. How many years have you been doing that?
ANDREA KOSA: Six. So 2013, yeah.
Q. And your children are?
ANDREA KOSA: Six and four. I'm very fortunate my husband can work from home some days and they are all supportive with his job. They are like, yeah, okay, we know Andrea and let's do what we can for her.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT