JELD-WEN TRADITION
August 19, 2007
David Edwards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   PHIL STAMBAUGH:  David, tough day to play out there for virtually everyone, very cold this morning, raining, gusting winds in the afternoon, but you hang in there for 73 and record your best finish in a major.  Just a couple of thoughts about how you played today and how the day went. 
 DAVID EDWARDS:  That's right, it was a tough day, raining kind of off and on early on and blowing some, and wind really pick up on the back nine. 
 I played okay.  Kind of having trouble with my back all week and it's been getting worse every day.  So it was kind of sore the first nine.  And then felt a little bitter on the back nine.  Got off just to a really good start and was 4-under through seven holes, I think it was, and then the wind kind of picked up on the back nine so it made it really tough to make birdies, and Mark didn't make bogeys. 
 So he just kind of stayed out there.  But I'm happy with the week.  I played pretty well, played pretty well today.  I had some good putts I thought might go in, and just didn't.  But I'm happy with the way I played. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  You want to just quickly take us through your round? 
 DAVID EDWARDS:  Fourth hole I bogeyed, kind of hooked it into the trap and didn't have anyway to get into the green and chipped on to the fairway and wedged on and 2-putted. 
 Birdied the fifth hole probably about 18 feet, was kind of right on the front edge of the green. 
 And 8, hit a sand wedge in about 12 feet, made that. 
 Bogeyed 10.  I hit -- came up just short into the fringe and thought I hit a pretty good chip but it just sat down real quick and missed the putt. 
 And then 11, came up short of the green and didn't hit a very good chip by the hole and made bogey there. 
 13, hit an 8-iron about 15 feet and made that. 
 17, hit in the trap on the right and knocked it on about 15 feet and 2-putted. 

 Q.  Mark has a reputation of a really good putter and front nine early. 
 DAVID EDWARDS:  I can attest, he is a very good putter.  He made some nice putts starting off there on 2 and 3.  But he played solid, too.  I played with him the last three days and he played very solid.  He didn't miss very many shots.  He got the ball up-and-down.  He didn't hit any bad misses and, you know, played very smart, got the ball, chipped the ball close when he was off the green and played very well.  Obviously to pull away from everybody else, he played really well. 
 You look a long ways down, fourth or fifth place, he bit fifth place by ten shots on the last hole other hand double on last but obviously he played very well. 

 Q.  Did the rain affect the back much? 
 DAVID EDWARDS:  No, the only thing it bothers it hitting golf balls.  The more I hit warming up, it's kind of a -- what would be the phrase?  You kind of need to warp up but the more I hit the worse it is on my back.  It aggravates any time I hit a shot.  I didn't practice any after the rounds this week and just took many pain pills and went out and played.  I didn't know if I would break 90 today or not.  I'm glad they moved the tee up on the fifth hole because I don't know how I would have got out of the ditch.  I would have ran out of balls before I got to the fairway there I was pretty happy when I saw that. 
 Started feeling better.  The back nine, it didn't feel too bad.  Every once in awhile I get a zing that just about takes me to my knees.  And each shot, it kind of aggravates it.  It's nice not to  -- I hit a shot and walk for a while and it kind of subsides and I hit a another shot.  So it didn't affect, it didn't affect the shots too terribly much.  Probably wasn't hitting as far and swinging as far as way normally would but I don't hit it far anyways. 

 Q.  Is this ongoing? 
 DAVID EDWARDS:  No. 

 Q.  Your overall impressions of your experiences this week? 
 DAVID EDWARDS:  It's nice.  It's a beautiful place here and the course is in nice condition.  All of the greens were really good, good to putt.  That's one of the reasons the scores were as good as they were.  It's a pretty tough golf course, long holes but when the greens are good, guys are going to make putts and that's what happened.  Pretty forgiving off the tee.  You have to hit good iron shots, and I certainly enjoyed my week. 

 Q.  Did you say here at Sunriver? 
 DAVID EDWARDS:  No, I stayed in bend. 
 PHIL STAMBAUGH:  Thank you. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT