SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 26, 2006
David Edwards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  A little better round today?
DAVID EDWARDS:  How did you figure that out?  No, I didn't play bad yesterday, I just didn't make any putts.  Today I made a few putts.  Still missed a few that I could have made.  But 68 on this golf course in these conditions is good.
Q.  18 just seems to be a problem the only blemish on your scorecard the last two days?
DAVID EDWARDS:  Well, it's a short par five, I made two fives.
Q.  What makes that hole so difficult?
DAVID EDWARDS:  It's long, it's narrow, if you don't hit it in the fairway, you don't have a shot.  The green's difficult.  You can't hit it over to the left, you can't hit it short and to the right and the green rolls around like a roller coaster, so even if you hit the green have you a tough putt.
Q.  It seemed like you got off to a pretty good start today, 3 under through six holes, something like that, I think, what's the story behind that?
DAVID EDWARDS:  Oh, I don't know that there's a story behind it.  I shot 4 under the first nine.  Played well.  The course has a little less wind and greens a little softer and I just made some putts on some holes and kept trying on the back side, but just didn't make any.
Q.  How do you think the course is going to change over these next final two rounds?  Going to be kind of more of the same do you think?
DAVID EDWARDS:  Well, it sounds like it.  From the forecast, it's going to get even windier.  And that's going to make it pretty tough.  And you just got to keep fighting.
Q.  The Oak Tree guys are really starting to play pretty well, you and Gil are right up there, do you think that you'll continue to see you guys on Sunday?
DAVID EDWARDS:  Well, so far, so good.  We'll see.  He started off very well, I didn't get off to a very good start.  Got a little bit of it back today.  If I can play a good round tomorrow and get myself kind of up in the middle of things, then hopefully it we'll have a chance on Sunday.
Q.  Talk about the leaderboard a little bit.  Some big names of golf up there, Hall of Fame type names.
DAVID EDWARDS:  Well, yeah, these guys are pretty good.
Q.  Sometimes you get the sense though where you don't get the totally recognizable names up there?
DAVID EDWARDS:  Well, that's just the nature of golf.  On any given day or any given week there's a lot of guy that is can play this game well.  So you got to look at things over a long haul.  And the guys you see this week have had a great career and that's kind of what distinguishes them in golf.  But other guys, I don't think there's any rhyme nor reason why, it's just sometimes there's a guy that kind of comes out of nowhere and that happens in golf.
Q.  From the fan perspective it's nice to see all those big names up there?
DAVID EDWARDS:  It is.  I think they like seeing the big names.  They also like seeing the underdogs sometimes.  So there's always something going on in golf.
Q.  7 under with a couple guys who have a chance to take it a little deeper through two rounds.  Is that more than you expected?
DAVID EDWARDS:  Yeah, I think it's harder than that, but somebody needs to tell them, I guess.
Q.  You get somebody that takes a double digit lead through here, is that really going to have an effect on the chances of winning the PGA on the Regular TOUR?
DAVID EDWARDS:  As far as them getting a tournament here?
Q.  Well, I'm just thinking that most guys are hitting it so far that we just don't know that this course could
DAVID EDWARDS:  Well, I mean I can set it up where 10 over par would win here.  I promise you.  Not a problem.  I can go to Kickingbird and set it up where 10 over par wins.  I mean it all has to do with where you put the tees, the pins, how much rough you grow, how hard the greens get.  The golf course makes little difference.  They can take, you know, USGA could go to Merion these days and it's 60, I don't know what, hundred yards long and they can make 10 over par win if they want to.  It's just how deep you grow the rough, how hard and fast the greens are.
Q.  How does it set up?
DAVID EDWARDS:  This one?
Q.  Yeah.
DAVID EDWARDS:  For the most part pretty good.  I thought there was a few pins yesterday, on four, was quite ridiculous.  Today on 8 was, you know, and 17, next to impossible.  You know, I don't like it when you mishit one to get it close.  I mean I bet nobody hits it wasn't 10 feet or 15 feet on 8 today without pulling it.  Because you can't aim, it's over to the left kind of middle back left there and the wind's left to right, kind of switching from down and down to into you and it's just a guessing game, you don't know how far it's going to go and you can't get anything but 30 feet, 40 feet right of the hole and hit it on out there.  Everybody in our group did that, everybody in the other groups that I saw did.  And that's as good a shot as you can hit.  I don't really see the point in doing that.  I think you got the best players in the game, you ought to be able to, you know, shoot at the pin sometimes.  Not all of the time, but most of the time.
Q.  How encouraged are you about your start thus far on the Champions Tour?
DAVID EDWARDS:  On a scale of?
Q.  One to five.  Five being very encouraged.
DAVID EDWARDS:  I'm very encouraged, yeah.  It was a nice start, I didn't really know what to expect.  And I still don't for sure, whether that was just two good weeks and I'll fall back a little bit or maybe I can play better than that, I don't know.  I think I can play better than that, but I don't know if I will.  So but it was encouraging to get off to a good start and I'm looking forward to keep playing these next few weeks.  I think I'm going to play three in a row here and see if I can have some good finishes again.
Q.  How different is your mindset coming into this 67th Senior PGA Championship here at Oak Tree, plus the one in '88?
DAVID EDWARDS:  No different.  Just a golf tournament.  Just go play, different set of circumstances.  I mean when you're home and there's a lot of people, there are just different things to deal with than when you're on the road, but you just deal with them the best you can and go out and play.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT