THE PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
March 27, 1997
David Edwards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








DAVID EDWARDS:  Well, generally, I was happy to get off to kind of a nice start here.  I have been home for three weeks, and we just built a new house and finished it up a couple of weeks ago.  Right now, I am better at lifting boxes than I am at hitting golf balls, I think.  But, today, made some putts, and so I am happy to get off to a good start here.

DAVID EDWARDS:  Yeah.  13, par 3, hit 5-iron about, oh, 4, 5 feet, I guess.

DAVID EDWARDS:  I hit 4-iron about twelve feet, made that.  15, I hit a 3-iron about 25 feet, probably, and made that.  So 3 in a row.  Then parred 16 and 17.  Hit it just on the left fringe about, oh, 20, 25 feet made that one. 

DAVID EDWARDS:  That was on 8.  17, I am sorry.

DAVID EDWARDS:  Hit 8-iron, little 8-iron there.  And then parred 18.  Parred 1, 2, hit it over the green; made great up-and-down; hit it in a bad spot and hit really good shot out of there.  Made par.  Then birdied the next hole; hit good shot; rolled down the hill; made about 30-footer probably there.  That was a 5-iron.  That was 3.

DAVID EDWARDS:  And then I really, today, a lot of it, the pars were made almost better than the birdies.  I hit it over the green on 4, another really bad shot.  Hit another good shot out there close to the hole.  Saved some really good pars today.  Parred around.  I bogeyed the 7th hole.  Hit it just to the right of the green there and chipped up about three feet and missed a little short putt there.  But, then came back on the last hole and made about a 30-footer on the last hole.


Q.  A lot of the players seem to be playing better on the backside today than the front.  Why is that?

DAVID EDWARDS:  Couldn't tell you.  Your guess is as good as mine.  I don't know, pin placement.  Coincidence, possibly.


Q.  How do you feel after today's round?  Up? 

DAVID EDWARDS:  It is nice to get off to a good start.  Played very well this year, so it is kind of nice to get off to a good start.  And, hopefully tomorrow, kind of keep things rolling and try to play myself back into a little confidence and you know --

DAVID EDWARDS:  It is the first house on the left of -- no, it is in Stillwater, Oklahoma golf course called Karsten Creek.  It has been kind of a long project.  But, anyway, we finally got it finished up a couple of weeks ago and moved in.  So, I spent the better part of last two weeks doing that and not playing very much golf.  But maybe that made golf seem fun, I don't know.


Q.  How do you find the conditions of the course today?

DAVID EDWARDS:  Really good.  The greens are just perfect.  Obviously soft with the rain.  But they will dry out some; they will get firmer, if we don't anymore rain.  Fairways are soft; not getting much roll.  Little bit of mud on the ball.  Kind of got me one time today.  But, it is in great shape.  Just need a little bit of dry weather.  Little bit more rough.  Seems to me like anyway they have cut down on the shaved areas and whatnot around the greens as much, and which I think is better, a little tougher around the greens, I think, for the missed shots, so....

DAVID EDWARDS:  Okay.  Hope I am back.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT