NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 13, 2009
Rafer Alston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Overall in the postseason you guys have been overcoming a lot of obstacles. Is this just another situation where you have to do that?
 RAFER ALSTON: We've overcome obstacles, nothing to this degree, though. We were down maybe 2-1. You know, we were able to do that. We're in a bigger hole than normal right now, and we just need to take it one game at a time, not try to say, we've got to win three. That's obvious, but you've got to win one before you can win the next.

 Q. Stan said the other night that at the point that he was ready to maybe send you back in, he got concerned that maybe you had been sitting too long at that point. Is that how it works? Would you have been feeling --
 RAFER ALSTON: You know what, that's the time that that usually happens, but I was over there nonstop asking the ballboys if they could get me heat bags. I was ready to go, but it's the coach's decision. That's why they're coaching. They're made to make those decisions, and that's the decision he went with at the time, that he thought I sat so long he didn't think I could go back out there and be as effective as I had been throughout the game.

 Q. What did you think?
 RAFER ALSTON: I was ready to go. I was ready to go. I was antsy, I was anticipating when he yelled my name, and I was going to sprint to the scorer's table and give it a shot and help us pull that game out.

 Q. Have you talked about that with anybody?
 RAFER ALSTON: No, just friends. They were ready to fly in and wring his neck, but that's the way the game goes. Friends don't understand that. They want their buddy in the game. 
 It just is tough. You think you're going to go back in there, you think you're going to -- not so much be the savior, I'm not that player. I'm not the guy going out there and getting 25, 30 points a night. But you have that thought that, hey, he's going to call your name, so stay ready. The professional job I had to do was stay ready, anything to keep the blood flowing and stay loose. 




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT