NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 6, 2009
Rafer Alston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Coach said that he would not be surprised if Jameer Nelson started Game 2. Just wondering what your thoughts are on him saying that. 
 RAFER ALSTON: I guess he's played in this league, he's been on both sides of the fence in his career, so I success he has a sense of how things play out with a player of Jameer's magnitude, All-Star guard coming into a situation like now. I can understand where he's coming from on that.

 Q. Yesterday Van Gundy said that you mentioning that sitting out the second quarter kind of threw off your game a bit, he said that that sounded like an excuse. 
 RAFER ALSTON: That's Coach (laughing). But I'm not one that is one for excuses or anything like that. It's about playing. It's just a rhythm thing. He understands that. I still go out and I'm going to play hard, give him 100 percent effort every time. I'm going to do what I have to do with the medicine that I'm given. Again, I'm not one to make excuses.

 Q. So there's no hard feelings?
 RAFER ALSTON: No, listen, me and Coach are great. It's my second go-around with him. Him and I never had problems. We were always on the same page.

 Q. Has he talked to you and Jameer or just you about what he plans on doing tomorrow, because Game 1 was obviously strange. 
 RAFER ALSTON: He hasn't said anything. I think Stan knows I'm not one for all the coach-player meetings. He understands I get it, especially ten years into my career. I get it. I understand. I love my role. 
 Again, when I came in the trade, I understand Jameer is an All-Star starting point guard, but he was out for so long. Again, it was strange for all of us. It was even strange for Jameer. Jameer didn't think he was going to play that long. He thought he was going to play six minutes here, seven minutes there. Again, it's something that we have to adjust to rather quick. Again, I think the timing of it is just different because we're in The Finals, not like we're at game 38 of the regular season where we have all this wiggle room to deal with. You're talking about something that could end in four games or go seven, depending on how the series plays out. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT