NBA FINALS: MAGIC v LAKERS
June 5, 2009
Rafer Alston
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Game 1 really could not have gone any worse for you guys, but Game 2, you get that one, it doesn't really matter, right?  
 RAFER ALSTON: Right. You've got to put it behind you, look at the film, understand the mistakes we've made. The only thing about the film, there wasn't a lot of good things we could take from it.  
  
  Q. Talk about Jameer Nelson and just his toughness, being able to come back after four months of not playing.  
 RAFER ALSTON: Yeah, that's big-time. There's a lot of passion, a lot of heart out there. He looked good moving around.  
 Again, we can't take a lot from the game. It's pretty much a throw-out.  
  
  Q. When you have a night like that shooting collectively, how do you get out of it?  
 RAFER ALSTON: Continue to shoot the ball. You can't turn down shots and be passing off. You've got to stay aggressive. But we can help each other get more penetration, try to collapse the defense and then try to kick the ball to shoot it, maybe get wide open shots, not contested shots.  
  
  Q. Is there an explanation why as a team you guys had such a poor shooting night?  
 RAFER ALSTON: Sometimes when the other team is scoring and scoring and scoring at a consistent rate, sometimes it can sap your energy. We didn't play with a lot of energy offensively as well as defensively.  
  
  Q. Not having a shoot-around for you guys, that's kind of different for you on a game day. Did that have any effect?  
 RAFER ALSTON: No, it's the timing of the game. It's going to be that way again Sunday. The game is an hour earlier. Again, to come all that way and have shoot-around, go back in traffic and try to get a nap or a rest in before the game, we have to play it safe.  
  
  Q. Was it tough to sleep on that last night?  
 RAFER ALSTON: It is, it is. Again, we competed hard and played with a lot of energy. You can go back and tip your hat to them for winning the game. We have to look at some things that we didn't do well. When you get blown out like that and get it handed to you, it's tough.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT