VIZIO FIESTA BOWL: BOISE STATE v ARIZONA
December 29, 2014
Darian Thompson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		  THE MODERATOR:   Questions. 

Q.   What does it mean for Boise State as a program to gain success like this?
DARIAN THOMPSON:   It means a lot to our program, Bronco Nation.   It's truly a blessing.   We've worked hard.   For all of our hard work to be recognized on a national level means a lot to us. 

Q.   What defensively are you looking for from Arizona's offense?
DARIAN THOMPSON:   We're expecting a fast‑paced offense, likes to get the ball into space.   We have a great game plan going into the game. 
I feel confident we're going to go out there and do what we're supposed to do. 

Q.   What kind of relationship do you have with the guys around you?   What does it feel like to have your brothers behind you having your back?
DARIAN THOMPSON:   It means a lot.   When you have your brothers out on the field with you, it's a different amount of confidence to gain for you.   Just to trust the person next to you that they're going to handle their job.   Just to go out and play with the brotherhood, it really helps. 

Q.   I know Boise State fans are crazy, they love their team.   What did it mean for you guys to be able to bring home the Mountain West championship?
DARIAN THOMPSON:   It meant a lot to our fans.   It's been a couple years since we brought home a championship from our conference, for them to see we are out there working, we are the same old Boise State.   We're going to figure out a way to get things done. 
Just to know we're going to have them behind us every step of the way, it means a lot. 

Q.   In the past, Boise State has won the Fiesta Bowl twice.   What does it mean to you?
DARIAN THOMPSON:   It means a lot.   That's a reason why a lot of the guys decided to come to Boise State, because of the big Fiesta Bowl wins.   To be able to say I'm on a team that made it to the Fiesta Bowl, I'm blessed and excited for the future. 

Q.   Any plans for the future?
DARIAN THOMPSON:   I don't know yet.   Just going to take it day by day. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT