THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 7, 2009
Jeppe Huldahl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. That was a fabulous performance on the final day, no dropped shots, and here you are with a very heavy trophy in your hands.   
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Yeah, I mean, it feels amazing. I don't know what to say to be honest. I didn't even dream of this coming into this week.   
  
  Q. Were you dreaming of it when you came into this final round?  
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Well, of course, you have to when you're leading I guess, but there's so many players, really tight, I think it was like 30 players within four or five shots or something. So, yeah, you know you had to produce a really good round. But yeah, I managed to do that.   
  
  Q. And at what stage did you know what you had to do sort of down that closing stretch?  
 JEPPE HULDAHL: I found out just after I hit my tee shot on 18, I asked my caddie if we could find out what we needed, five, and that's what we did.   
  
  Q. What do you think this does for your career, because you've never finished higher than 12th on The European Tour before now, and now you're a winner.   
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Well, it does a lot of things, and I have to go home to work things out I guess. It changes a lot of things. Yeah, it's just amazing now. I've got these couple of years exemption and stuff, and I can really plan when I'm playing.  
  
  Q. And you're  £300,000 richer, as well. That's life-changing as well, isn't it?  
 JEPPE HULDAHL: It is, but the money didn't even cross my mind out there. It's such a big thing to win it, it's unbelievable.  
  
  Q. And tomorrow do you go to Sunningdale to try to qualify for the Open?  
 JEPPE HULDAHL: I haven't decided yet. I might actually go home to Denmark to celebrate this.   
 I'm a bit tired after this round, and 36 holes tomorrow sounds like a lot at the moment. I'll just have to work it out somehow.  
  
  Q. And how will you celebrate?  
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Haven't decided yet.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT