THE CELTIC MANOR WALES OPEN
June 6, 2009
Jeppe Huldahl
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. On the day when the average score is 73.5, you've shot 68; how?
 JEPPE HULDAHL: I managed to stay out of trouble pretty much all the way through and got up-and-down when it got important. So I guess that's that.

 Q. Very breezy out there. Do you consider yourself a better-than-average wind player?
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Well, I do pretty well in tough conditions normally, so I quite like it. Even though it's tough today, it was good fun. 

 Q. No obvious sign of this sort of form coming into the event, three missed cuts recently, what changed? 
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Well, it's been feeling quite well for a while now. So I felt like it was all about time before it started coming. It's just nice it came here.

 Q. It's your second spell on Tour, you were on Tour in 2004 but finished just outside the top 200. Do you feel better this time around?
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Yeah, I had some time on The Challenge Tour which has helped me a lot and certainly prepared me a lot better.

 Q. You could be leader overnight. 
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Well, I'll take it shot by shot and see what happens.

 Q. If we said to you what's the best thing you've done in your career, what would you say, so far?
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Don't know. Well, that's tough, really. This round today was one of them. 

 Q. What was the hardest bit about today? Must have been such a long day to be able to keep your concentration and focus through a long period. 
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Yeah, I was lucky not to be first off today so I could just stay at the hotel and take the info from there and see what happens. 
 I had a relaxing time back at the hotel, so it was fine. 

 Q. Do you, like most Danish players, have a lot of respect for what Thomas Björn has achieved?
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Yeah, I think he's won like nine times out here. I don't think there's a lot of players who have done that. So, yeah, of course, you have to. 

 Q. What got you into golf?
 JEPPE HULDAHL: My dad I guess. I started playing at six. Yeah, my dad. 

 Q. Do you talk to Thomas a lot? 
 JEPPE HULDAHL: The Danish players talk a lot, actually, yeah. 

 Q. It was interesting hearing what Tim said in the TV interview, that you had a go at the Tour earlier and played at The Challenge Tour; what was it about playing on The Challenge Tour that got you prepared then for your second spell?
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Well, I mean, The Challenge Tour is not The European Tour but it's pretty close actually. There's a lot of good players and really good competition, so it has to prepare you pretty well. And if you're going through top 20 there, there's a good chance you're good enough to stay out here. 

 Q. What was your best performance there?
 JEPPE HULDAHL: I won in Norway. I had two seconds and one win last year. 

 Q. But you haven't been in this position before on a main Tour event, have you?
 JEPPE HULDAHL: Well, close. I think I was third going into the last round in Indonesia or something. Tried a bit of it before, but it's going to be fun before.

 Q. Did you enjoy it?
 JEPPE HULDAHL: I did, but it's different from when I tried before, so I'm glad I tried it before now.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT