AL DIVISION SERIES: RAYS v RED SOX
October 5, 2013
David Ortiz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Tampa Bay Rays - 4
  Boston Red Sox - 7

Q.   What kind of things went through your mind as you watched that game unfold?
DAVID ORTIZ:     Like I told you before, we're facing good pitching and we definitely need to execute whenever we have the opportunity.

Q.   David Ross said you can't say what you came in saying what you are going to do tonight, but you had it in your mind.   Kind of go through those two home runs, and what they were like. 
DAVID ORTIZ:     Like I tell you guys, we faced Price many times, so you've got to make up your mind.   You can't let a pitcher change your mind.   And I stuck with the plan and it worked.

Q.   What did it mean to you to hit two home runs in a postseason game?
DAVID ORTIZ:     As long as we win, it means a lot.   It's not happening every day.   But I'd rather have it happen in these occasions.   It's good.

Q.   How about a thought on being up 2‑0?
DAVID ORTIZ:   It's not over.   We've got to keep on fighting.   We know we're playing against a good ballclub.   They always find a way to win games, and you can't take anything for granted.

Q.   How much are you liking this team, even as you go through these two playoff games?
DAVID ORTIZ:     We've got a lot of hungry guys, that's all that matters.

Q.   Joe Maddon said he's looking forward to coming back here to play Game 5.   What do you think about that?   
DAVID ORTIZ:     He's got the right to say it.   He's a good manager, he motivates his team real well.   I've got a lot of respect for Joe.   What else can you say.

Q.   The left‑handed bats tonight really did a job.   Talk about facing a lefty but you guys really got the job done. 
DAVID ORTIZ:     We've being doing that all year long.   We've put in some good at‑bats, we've got lefties.   Things are not going to go the way you want always, but lefties are tough, regardless, and especially Price.   The one thing that I notice about him, his fastball wasn't like it used to be.   He pitched four or five days ago, a complete game.   And a complete game to end the season can catch up with.   It wasn't a bad fastball but not 96, 98 like he used to.   It wasn't like you normally expect.

Q.   Do you think that's the difference?
DAVID ORTIZ:     I guess.   I guess.   But I think he pitched a good game.   I think he did.   He's a trooper.   The guys have a lot of respect for Price.   Actually I was talking to him the other day at the gym and I was congratulating him because he worked the whole game in Texas and that was unbelievable.   The guy is special, special, no doubt.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT