SHRINERS HOSPITALS FOR CHILDREN OPEN
October 23, 2015
Tyler Aldridge
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  What a fantastic finish for you there.  How good did it look from your vantage point?  
TYLER ALDRIDGE: Honestly, I was just playing a little right and had a little bit of a draw and landed right next to the hole, and the camera guy said it was like an inch away.  It was crazy.   
 Q.  You had a lot of time to think about that with the playing partners.  Did it change anything you were looking for or did you know you were going to hit that type of shot the whole time?  
TYLER ALDRIDGE: Well, I've been hitting it well all week.  I was playing a little conservative, a little right of it, and the wind was off the right, and I just hit one in there close.   
 Q.  I was going to talk to you about your bunker shot at 17 because you seemed to play it perfectly to save par there.  
TYLER ALDRIDGE: Yeah, I hit a great shot there.  Just got it out of the bunker and it was straight downhill to the hole, and you know, hit it perfect.   
 Q.  You're even on your second round after finishing your first round earlier this morning to get to 7-under par.  Even until 15, three birdies in the last four holes to take the lead here after your second round.  That's put a big smile on your face.  How does it feel right now?  
TYLER ALDRIDGE: It feels great.  I'm tired.  I'm going to go home, get some rest, and be ready for tomorrow.   
 Q.  How difficult was it to try to finish up yesterday in the dark and then come up two holes short and then get back here again?  
TYLER ALDRIDGE: You know, it wasn't -- I had a short birdie putt on 7, and I was feeling good about the way I was putting, so I told myself, you know what, let's just try to make that putt, and I was fortunate enough to make it.  It was tough coming out, my first hole being 8.  It's a long par-3, and kind of tugged a tee shot there, but had a great birdie on 9, nice two-putt birdie, and carried the momentum over to this round.   
 Q.  How early did you have to come out today?  
TYLER ALDRIDGE: I got out here at 5:30, so 7:30 restart.   
 Q.  Up until those last two birdies, you pretty much had a nice steady round, right?  No issues?  Guys were talking about the wind, but I don't know if you had any issues.  
TYLER ALDRIDGE: Yeah, I mean, yeah, it definitely played tougher today, just because of the wind, but I had some good up-and-downs out there.  I made some solid putts to save par to kind of keep everything going.   
 Q.  You finished up your first round this morning, you shoot a 64, then you have to come back out pretty quickly to play your second round and shoot a 68.  How happy are you with that 68?  
TYLER ALDRIDGE: Super happy.  Hitting the ball well, putting well, and everything seems to be going my way right now.   
 Q.  How are the scoring conditions out there today?  Do you feel like you could have gone any lower?  
TYLER ALDRIDGE: I thought it was playing a lot tougher than yesterday.  The wind picked up a little bit, and it made some of the holes a little bit more difficult.  But overall, you know, it was just a matter of making putts.   
 Q.  And having to finish up a round and come back out like that pretty quickly, does that mess with the way you warm up or your pre-round routine or anything, or was it pretty normal for you today?  
TYLER ALDRIDGE: Well, it's not normal because you come out and tee off on a par-3 for your first hole, and then after you finish you've got to wait around for a bit.  But you know, you've just got to do it.  Just got to do it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT