TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 28, 2019
Julian Suri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Disappointing but still positive on the comeback trail?  
JULIAN SURI: Yeah, absolutely.  To have four under par rounds is something I didn't have in India, and you know, on a course like this where it demands so much from me tee-to-green and on the greens, definitely huge steps forward, and for me to be bogey-free in the final round to maintain that sort of composure is definitely something first for this year, so it's definitely a trend I'd like to keep going forward.   
 Q.  How did it feel out there today?  Was it a grind or were you comfortable out there?  
JULIAN SURI: Today it was honestly the best ball-striking.  I figured something out last night when I was sleeping subconsciously.  Funny how this thing works.  Kind of tried it out on the range this morning and was crushing it, and today was the best I controlled my ball, the best I hit it all week.   
With where some of the pins are, it's challenging.  You just have to play defensive and give yourself a 30-footer for birdie.  Unfortunately none of those dropped for me, but I made a hell of a lot of good efforts from that range.   
Overall, lots of positives but definitely stings a little bit.   
 Q.  Looking at your setup, making those two practise swings, was that it?  
JULIAN SURI: It wasn't that.  It was something I've been doing for a while.  Yeah, just kind of a little sort of pre-shot routine thing.  Nothing too major.  Not probably noticeable to the naked eye, but me and my caddie were able to work on it this morning and it was all good.   
 Q.  Thoughts going into the next few weeks on Tour?  
JULIAN SURI: Yeah, you know, I'm looking forward to hopefully just seal my spot to get into the PGA in a couple weeks, and then, yeah, looking forward to China.  I heard it's a really good course, just like this one.   
Yeah, I'm excited.  I just love competing and I'm glad to be back here.  It's an energising feeling and it brings the life out of me, really.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT