DP WORLD TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP, DUBAI
November 16, 2017
Julian Suri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. An opening round 68, you must be very pleased with the way you've started this tournament?
JULIAN SURI: Yeah, I have.  It was really nice to get off to a great start.  Coming off early, the greens are pure.  They are awesome, perfect.  If you hit a good putt, it's going to go in.  It's really nice.
It was a little cooler this morning, and I've played with Richard now a couple times, so it was a good atmosphere out there.  Pretty pleased with the way I've played.
Q. Three pairs of birdies, as well.  All the birdies coming back-to-back?
JULIAN SURI: Yeah, I didn't even notice that but yeah.  I just feel like once I hit one good shot, I feel like I can hit them all good.  I just try to keep it rolling.
Q. Fantastic golf course.  First time you've played in this tournament.  How does it suit your eye out there?
JULIAN SURI: To be honest it reminds me a lot of courses back home where I'm from.  I think obviously the greens are the same, bermudagreens and bermuda fairways.
And just the style, there's a lot of courses in Florida that are big golf courses, big greens, big slopes, and you've kind of got to manage those.  You have a lot of kind of winding putts.  It really reminds me of something back home.
Q. We spoke many times this year about what you've achieved this year.  How much of a dream is it to be playing in this tournament, and do you set yourself any targets coming into this week?
JULIAN SURI: You know, if you play every tournament, you're trying to win.  I'm just trying to do as good as I can and hit as many good shots and see where that puts me at the end.
This is a special tournament, you can tell.  Obviously only being 60 players, you kind of feel like you're with the best of the best out here.  We're treated so well out here, and the course is in such phenomenal shape.  Just suits the whole vibe.
Q. You bogeyed the first hole but after that a very solid round.  How would you wrap up your performance today?
JULIAN SURI: It was a good start, that's for sure.  I hit a lot of good shots the way I wanted to.  Made it a little interesting on 18 there but that 3-wood was pretty sweet.  I'm pretty proud of the way I executed today.
The greens, I putted well.  I've been working a lot on my putting earlier this week and I think it's starting to pay off.
Q. YOU started the year hovering outside the top 1,000 in the world and now you're inside the top 100.  What have you elevated about your game?
JULIAN SURI: I think first the biggest change is I started working with an instructor in Jacksonville, Dan Carraher, and you know, that's been the biggest thing.  I had about a month of good work in April with him and then the first tournament I came over, I came in second and then I won on The Challenge Tour two weeks later.  Physically, that was probably the biggest thing.
And then once I got some good results, I just kind of kept working on stuff and I feel very comfortable out here.  So from then on, it's just golf and trying to make as many birdies as I can.
Q. You've played a lot of golf with Brooks Koepka growing up, and the fact that you're an American coming over here on The European Tour; how has playing on this tour in your opinion made you a better golfer?
JULIAN SURI: I think just travelling all over the world.  A lot of professional golf is what people don't see off the golf course.  Sometimes you have redeye flights and long flights and you're jet-lagged and you sometimes lose bags, which I've experienced a bit more than I would have liked.
So you kind of have all these kind of variables thrown in your face and to be able to focus on golf despite all that I think is really good preparation for when you start moving up in the World Rankings, then you have a lot more distractions, as well.  I think that's done a really good job of sort of preparing me, and look forward to kind of keep moving up.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT