TURKISH AIRLINES OPEN
November 5, 2017
Julian Suri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Julian, your second Rolex Series event and it's been an impressive week for you.  You must be pleased with the way you finished?  
JULIAN SURI: Well, I was guaranteed to make the cut this week, which was nice.  It was definitely very good on the weekend.   
Really I felt like -- one hole all week, I made a triple the second round, No. 11.  Put the brakes a little bit on my momentum but overall played really well.  Looks like I'll get a Top-10.  I'm looking out for my buddy, Dylan, to see if he can finish out strong here.  Overall a good week and I'm excited heading into the next week South Africa.   
 Q.  Just one dropped shot over the last two days, that's no mean feat, as well.  Some of the guys at the top of the leaderboard that started the day have been slipping back a little bit at times.  
JULIAN SURI: Yeah, there's a lot of birdies out there but you've got to hit good shots and if you don't hit good shots, you'll get penalised.  I had one 3-putt today but overall, the greens are so good; if you hit good shots, you'll get rewarded, which is nice.   
 Q.  Started the week 72 on The Race to Dubai, so this is a long way now take you into the Top 60 and getting you into the last event of the season.  Considering you only came into the Tour this week would be a fantastic achievement and something you're looking forward to?  
JULIAN SURI: Absolutely.  I spent last week practising in Dubai at Jumeirah and just being there the whole week and being around, seeing all the signs of past champions and all that kind of just provided a little extra motivation.   
So I'm really glad about that.  I don't know exactly where that puts me but I know it gets me into next week for sure, so I'm excited for that.   
 Q.  The Road to Oman standings finalised yesterday, so another 15 golfers coming up, familiar faces for you next year.  What can they expect and what have you learned in your few events on The European Tour since coming on?  
JULIAN SURI: Those guys are all good golfers.  I think a lot of it is just feeling comfortable sticking in the routines, feeling comfortable in certain situations with more people around, more media attention.  Just everything is a little bit more amplified and then just sticking to your guns, playing smart, and the courses are probably a little bit higher degree of difficulty I think.   
They are all good players, so we'll see how it goes.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT