TROPHEE HASSAN II
April 24, 2019
Julian Suri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Making your first two starts on The European Tour last month, how frustrating was it to have another break after so long out of the game?
JULIAN SURI: It is what it is.  I kind of view it as a good thing.  Definitely, the first two after the injury were more I went into with the mind-set that it was going to be a learning experience no matter what, shake some rust off, and you know, obviously I was in contention in India, a little earlier than I expected to be.  But I was -- it was good.  Take it as a positive, three weeks to grind on my game and get ready for this kind of stretch that kicks off the summer.
Q. Was that a little bit of a surprise for you, T-20 and T-4, your first two starts in five months?
JULIAN SURI: Not as much the finishes.  I expected to be up there because I know how to compete, but it's been a little while.  I think more surprising was the consistency with my ball-striking.  I've always been able to kind of scrap it around, score and get a decent finish.
But I essentially dominated that golf course in India for 90 per cent of the week.  So that was -- and that's as tough of a golf course as you'll ever play.
So that was a little bit surprising to me but obviously if a good way.
Q. And then a tough golf course this week; you can take a lot of positives from India?
JULIAN SURI: Sure.  There's a lot of slopes on the greens.  You've got to be on the right spot.  You've got to sort of put your ball in the right spots from what I've seen.  I've only walked the course -- only got my clubs late last night.  Looking forward to getting out there in the Pro-Am and doing it for real.
Q. Did you watch the Masters?  If so, where were you when Tiger won?
JULIAN SURI: Yeah, of course.  Yeah, I played at TPC Sawgrass that morning with a couple friends and then we watched the back nine in my living room at my condo, and that was -- yeah, that was pretty cool.
Q. Must have been quite special as an American seeing Tiger come back after the trouble the last few years.
JULIAN SURI: Yeah, Tiger, he's the reason I started playing golf.  If it wasn't for him, I wouldn't be doing -- I don't know what I would be doing right now but I wouldn't be doing this.  He made it cool.  He made it exciting.  Just what he did a couple weeks ago was just another chapter of that sort of story.
Q. How important is it for the youth of today to have the opportunity to see maybe the greatest player ever live do that again?
JULIAN SURI: Yeah, there's kids -- I grew up -- I go to the course where I grew up at, and they were born after 2000, and that was just like mind-boggling.  Like man, they never saw that.  They only have these Instagram clips or YouTube to go off.  It's pretty special that, you know, he was able to come back and kind of -- he's obviously a little bit older now and maybe not quite at full capacity that he was, but just a glimpse of that at Augusta was incredible.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT