HNA OPEN DE FRANCE
July 1, 2018
Julian Suri
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JULIAN SURI: You know teeing off it's almost two different courses, really 1, through 14 and then the last four.  I made a bunch of birdies the first 14.  I was 5-under for the day and I knew the last four, I have to buckle down and hit good shots, and I didn't hit good shots.  Honestly, with the shots I hit, I'm kind of lucky to only be 3-over in the last four.   
 Q.  But you'll be in The Open with that?  
JULIAN SURI: Yeah, so that's I guess a consolation somewhat, and I love Carnoustie.  I played it in the Dunhill for the first time last year, obviously totally different conditions, but last year at The Open was my first major, as well.  It will be nice to be back and play the last two majors of the year.   
 Q.  So next year will be revenge for you at The French Open?  
JULIAN SURI: That's the plan.   
 Q.  Probably difficult to explain your emotions, that final hole has really cost you here but just sum up the final round for us.  
JULIAN SURI: Yeah, I just kind of through away the tournament there with that second shot but to be honest, I was kind of losing my swing the last probably six holes or so, and to gut it out and only be 2-over on those last five, you know, I guess I can come away with that knowing I can grind it out.   
Compared to the way I hit it yesterday, today wasn't up to par and I kind of just scored a lot better.  The wind was down.  Overall, it was a positive week.  It's a tough course but it stings pretty good right now.   
 Q.  The consolation is that you've got a place in The Open Championship, so at least when you've had a few days to reflect, you'll have that to start preparing and look forward to?  
JULIAN SURI: Yeah, that will be nice.  A good couple weeks prep of weeks golf and playing in the British Isles, yeah.   
 Q.  This will be the venue for The Ryder Cup.  You've had a look at it.  How do you feel it will be as a Ryder Cup venue?  
JULIAN SURI: It will be great.  Obviously match play, it's going to be different that be stroke play with the risk/reward stuff and probably the setup.  But for me, you know, it's an awesome track and I think the harder it plays, the better, and I don't know, maybe I'm a cynic or whatever, but it's pretty great.  It's one of the best I've ever played.  Should be a great venue.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT