ATP CUP
February 2, 2021
Vincenzo Santopadre
Matteo Berrettini
Fabio Fognini
Andrea Vavassori
Simone Bolelli
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Captain, do you want to tell us about the win.  Obviously difficult first match, but then a great comeback.
VINCENZO SANTOPADRE:   Yeah, as we expected, it was a really tough match.  Fabio, for sure we know, everybody knows, that he can play better.  Of course, he needs some more matches.  I was really happy because on doubles, he was ready to play, he wanted to play.  To me is important for him to play some matches.
Of course, we are a team, so we have to consider everybody.  I am happy because there are so many things.  Matteo played unbelievable two matches.  I knew that he was playing good, he's fit.  But I was surprised because I didn't expect he could make this kind of victory.  It's really unbelievable.
Last thing, but to me is very important, I want to say thanks to Andrea and Simone because, of course, it's not easy to say to a player that they were not going to play the double.  They were ready to play, both.  But why I talked to them, they were really nice to understand that there was the team in front of them.  So I am happy because I know these two guys well, especially Simone.  To me was really tough to say, especially to Simone.  We know that he won the title here in Melbourne.  He has an unbelievable level.  Was a tough choice.
I'm really happy because they understood me and they have put the team in front of their own interests.
Q. Fabio, I know you were saying how you just need to get matches.  After singles, were you watching Matteo play when you were cooling down, trying to get yourself ready in case you had to play doubles?  At what point did you realize you were going to have to play for your country again?
FABIO FOGNINI:   I think the captain say everything.  They know my situation, so maybe the only one that should know more than the other one is me.
About singles, it's tough to say something.  Of course, I play really bad.  I was not feeling really good.  As I say before, I need matches, but not these kind of matches.
After Matteo singles we went in the locker room, we speak all together.  The captain ask me if I want to play doubles.  I say okay, I'm ready.  Of course, I want to play.  I want to try to feeling in a better way the day.
We are happy.  In this kind of situation when we play in a team, is not important, in my opinion, but I think for everybody who is not going to play, is important to win the tie, to win the two score, and to take home three points.
Q. Matteo, when you're in the locker room and you were asked to play doubles, how do you switch from being excited about your singles match to know you start fresh in doubles?  How difficult is that?
MATTEO BERRETTINI:   I mean, for sure it's easier when you win than when you lose.  I was feeling confident obviously.  I was really happy for the way I played the singles.  I was still feeling the adrenaline.  I didn't have a lot of time.  Vincenzo told me, I would like you to play, are you ready?  I was like, Obviously, yes.
I changed my shirt and I was ready to step in.  Like I said, I used the energy and that the confidence that I felt during my singles to play my best doubles.  That's it.
I think we played really solid.  We were really solid on the service game.  We were returning good.  We were the best team I think today.  That's what matters, I guess.
Q. You and Fabio played together, won a title.  When you're in that situation, do you talk strategy or because you know each other you just sort of go from there?
MATTEO BERRETTINI:   I mean, we didn't play a lot of matches, yeah, but I think we have a good record.  Also in Davis Cup we played a good match one year and a half ago.
I think we fit, like, pretty well.  I like, I mean, to serve.  He's really good at the net.  He's returning a lot, which help me a lot.  I think we can play really good, like we did today.
I mean, you have to change.  When you're playing, the others also are adjusting.  You have to kind of be ready for everything.  I think we stick to the plan most of the time because was paying off a lot.
Yeah, we were better.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT