NL DIVISION SERIES: DIAMONDBACKS v BREWERS
October 2, 2011
Nyjer Morgan
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. I'm the last one to know about this, but can you tell us about this (indicating)?   
 NYJER MORGAN: The "beastmode"?   
  
  Q. What is it?  
 NYJER MORGAN: It's called the "beastmode." No, it's just a little thing. Prince started doing it. And from there it's just -- it's a team camaraderie thing. As soon as somebody gets on base, it just gives them a nice celebration just for getting a hit, because hitting is tough in this game. Just being able to get on base, that's very special for us.   
 So we like giving a little -- we like basically having a little fun out there.  
  
  Q. Obviously your first experience in the playoffs. Is it still a little bit kind of surreal everything going on here?  
 NYJER MORGAN: No, I'm glad that's over with now. The first one is over with. I wasn't nervous or anything like that, but I was just more of just excited, didn't know really how to handle all the pressure out there and everything. And all the energy.   
 But now since I'm glad that one is over with and got that one under my belt I can get back to just playing the game and just staying to myself.  
  
  Q. Did those have opposite effects on you, defensively and at the plate?  
 NYJER MORGAN: No. Once normally -- just once that first couple of innings go by you kind of get that feel of the game and everything. And that's when everything really sits back and it turns right back to a regular game and everything.   
 But from then on, but those couple of first at-B's, for myself, that was kind of a -- I was a little nervous up there. But it was more excitement than anything.  
  
  Q. Who is Tony Plush?   
 NYJER MORGAN: That's the entertainer. That's the guy who likes to have fun. That's basically the guy who -- we're basically on the stage out there. And as an entertainer, you know, all entertainers have a name. And for me it's Tony Plush.   
 So basically when I clock in on that field and basically I just -- as you see right now, I'm right now Tony Plush. I'm an entertainer and I'm going to make things happen. And you've got to make good things happen for the team and everything. Everything seems to be working out.  
  
  Q. Nyjer, Mark Attanasio told us that you were telling his dad he needs an entertaining game. Have you got anything?  
 NYJER MORGAN: No, I couldn't think of him, but he kind of sounded like, what's his name, Frank Sinatra. Yeah, yeah (laughter).   
  
  Q. At the end of the day, all the names and personas aside, how much pride do you take in how hard you've worked to get to this point?  
 NYJER MORGAN: It's a lot of hard work. And definitely a lot of hurdles I had to go over. But I just -- I still enjoy playing the game. I play the game hard. I play the game hard for whoever I play with.   
 You know, some people they disagree and they don't like the way I play or whatever. But if you were having me on your team, then you will understand, and they understand just the hard work and what I put out there and the fun of just coming out here and playing a kid's game.  
  
  Q. With all those folks waving those rally towels out there, it was really going.   
 NYJER MORGAN: It was really intense.  
  
  Q. How was that for you all?  
 NYJER MORGAN: It's very cool. Just for my first time being in the situation, something that, you know, is just -- probably really never dreamed of. It's one of those things words can't really explain how you feel out there. It's a different feeling. And just being able to have the fans just in the Keg, and pumping us up and doing what they're supposed to do is really cool.  
  
  Q. Do you feel you were harmed somewhat just early in your career by people not understanding your personality, and sort of misunderstood, almost?  
 NYJER MORGAN: Most definitely. But it's just one of those things where I just -- I stayed with what I knew how to do, and that's play this game and enjoy it. And what they say is have fun in this game. Even though I know this is the highest stage, it's just basically -- they always tell you have fun and enjoy what you do. I enjoy what I do and I have fun out there.  
  
  Q. Can you tell us a little about your interaction with Ron this year? The good times. And then the times where --  
 NYJER MORGAN: When Tony "Hush" came around? (Laughter.)   
 I mean, that's just -- it's such a cool relationship. You know, because he understands that I come to work. But there's times where he gives me that look, where it's like, hey, Nyj, kind of tone it down a little bit.  
 It's a pretty cool relationship because he let's me be me. And he understands me. Being able to have somebody like that in your corner is, it's pretty solid. And knowing that I'm going to go out there and I'm going to give it my all just for him and knowing that he's steering the ship in the right way and he's a solid skipper. The only thing I can do is go out there and bust my tail and do what I do best.  
  
  Q. Is it fair to say that what you needed for your whole personality to come out was a winning ballclub?  
 NYJER MORGAN: I guess, yeah. I've always been this player. I've always been around that 290, 270 mark, whatever. But I've always got better each year. And I'm not taking anything away from Pittsburgh. I enjoyed being in Pittsburgh. And then in Washington, you know, that was an interesting situation, too. But I still enjoyed my time there, too. I guess, you know, I had to go through those little steps just to get to where I am now.   
 But definitely, I don't take anything back from playing with those teams and anything like that. But now that I'm playing with some great players, you can see my game coming out, too. It's actually pretty cool, being in this body and not being able to -- and being able to finally show these skills and finally get looked at as a solid individual out there in this game.  
  
  Q. What is it that makes this team so special?   
 NYJER MORGAN: We have fun.  
  
  Q. It fits so perfectly?  
 NYJER MORGAN: We have fun. We gel together, we're a complete unit. We understand what it's going to take, but we understand that we've got to take each day. We can't try to get ahead of ourselves. And everybody is a confident and competent group of men in there. What we know we can take care of, we're very confident about it.  
  
  Q. How much does it help in leaders like Fielder and Braun, everybody in the clubhouse, they want you to be you, how much does that help this team out?  
 NYJER MORGAN: Yeah, being able to be myself, like I said, I can go out there and play. I don't have to keep looking around, oh, am I doing something wrong? And that's what makes it a lot better, just to be able to go out there and be able to go play, without being able to look around and wondering if you're doing the wrong thing, are you pissing somebody off the wrong way. Are you, I guess, disgracing the game or something like that. You know what I mean?   
 Being able to go out there and knowing that these group of men, they trust me to go out there and have fun, but still be under control, that's what makes it even better.  
  
  Q. Does the freedom that Ron gives you guys to express yourselves and be yourselves and express your personalities, does that also give you guys a sense of self responsibility to know when to say when, for lack of a better term?  
 NYJER MORGAN: Oh, most definitely. But like -- he understands we're a fun group. So as long as we can just go out there and just keep having fun. But like I say, control what we can take care of, but just be ourselves, I think we can go far in this thing, here.  
  
  Q. You got the high-energy award, didn't they give you two trophies?  
 NYJER MORGAN: Oh, yeah (laughter).   
  
  Q. Are you surprised how the fans, even the businesspeople, kind of a town that's known to be a little conservative, has kind of embraced this whole alter ego thing?  
 NYJER MORGAN: Well, it's more of they understand. It's still a kid's game. But, like I said, even though it's still on the highest stage, but it's always going to be a kid's game.   
 I figure if you're going to go out there, and I've always been this player, just to try to be the people's champ. And basically just try to go out there and try to just make things happen, make people enjoy coming to a game.   
 You just never know who's watching, that one kid or whoever. He can just see you and just, man, that kid is special. And that's what makes me go out there and have fun and maybe interact with the fans and just be myself.   
  
  Q. What was your favorite dress-up outfit of the year? You guys did it several times? What one did you like the most? You looked pretty good in that cowboy outfit.  
 NYJER MORGAN: Tony "Tombstone." The city slicker, himself. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Now that you're able to be yourself, are you kind of touched in how the Milwaukee fans have just fallen in love with you?  
 NYJER MORGAN: Yeah, that's beautiful. Man, it's beautiful. You know, it's just -- the town has just -- is nice people. Or not a town, a nice city of just nice people.   
 Where I was sitting last night, we were having dinner, me and my father and my little brother. They had the sweatshirts on and they're pumped up and everything. And just some random individuals came up to our table. And they didn't know who I was. I put my head down, I'm ducking away, right, and that's when, you know, they're just talking about just the game. And "Go Badgers," you know, just everything about Milwaukee. It was really cool.  
  
  Q. When you see little kids throwing up the T, like five, six, seven years old?  
 NYJER MORGAN: Yeah, I'm a role model now. That's really cool (indicating).   
  
  Q. Does Tony Plush play well right now because they're winning, how big a factor is that?  
 NYJER MORGAN: Tony Plush has always played well. It doesn't matter where I live.   
 Last year was a learning year. It wasn't a terrible year. It was a learning year. And I had to bounce back and I had to -- and had a more successful year this year. But I have to be myself. I can't sugarcoat it for anybody. This is who I am. I'm going to be out there, I'm going to go out and have fun. I might get under people's skin a little bit. But as long as it's for the right things and I'm out there hustling, doing what I am supposed to do to win for my organization, then I'm going to be me.  
  
  Q. I'm wondering how Tony "Gumble" would assess the team's chances after winning the first game?  
 NYJER MORGAN: The professional, he's going to definitely, he's going to stay hush on this. He's going to be a little bit humble and just, you know, tell you guys that they're going to take each day as it comes and not try to get ahead of themselves.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT