UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 29, 2008
Stephen Schilling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
  Q. What do you think the key is to your offense getting off to a quicker start than it did last Saturday?   
 STEPHEN SCHILLING: I think we have to prepare and practice. I think have a good week of practice like we had last week. I don't really know the explanation for the slow start last week. I think I thought we were ready to play. I think we just some things didn't go our way early and kind of one bad thing led to another bad thing. We were able to turn it around at halftime, luckily. We're going to work hard this week and try to correct that.  
  
  Q. They were showing stats on the television broadcast, 44 percent of the plays this year have been for no yardage or negative yardage. Does the offensive line take that stat personally?  
 STEPHEN SCHILLING: I hadn't seen that stat. I didn't know that. But it's a pretty big stat. We'll try to correct that.  
  
  Q. When you watched the film, could you see that you were closer on some of the --  
 STEPHEN SCHILLING: Definitely. In every game you see plays where it's one block away, one inch away from something that could have sprung maybe for a bigger touchdown or a bigger gain.   
 But that's something that you just try to correct in the film. That's something you try to do in practice. But it's frustrating, too, when you watch it and you see how close you were. But when we correct it on film we'll get it going.  
  
  Q. How frustrating is it when you're out there?  
 STEPHEN SCHILLING: You don't usually know when you're out there. You usually see it on the film. But you can only really do what you can control. So if you do your job sxfsh does their job, they'll go together. I can't really worry about that.  
  
  Q. How differently are you being asked to protect defenses this year in terms of the blocking end of it, the offensive line, than maybe you were a year ago?  
 STEPHEN SCHILLING: It's pretty similar, with zone scheme and things like that. I think they want us to be a little more aggressive this year than last year in terms of, instead of simply landmarks with us and blocking schemes like that, be a little more aggressive. If you missed your landmark, don't worry about that, just try to be aggressive and get through them and block them and the running back can make you right. They stressed that a little bit more this year than in the past. We have to make sure our hat was to the play, things like that. This year they emphasized the running back making us right in case the defender slips off to one side or the other.  
  
  Q. Do you have any explanation as to why maybe the team played better or makes less mistakes in the second half?  
 STEPHEN SCHILLING: Not really. I mean coaches made good adjustments. I didn't think Wisconsin was doing much to us in the first half that really should have hurt us.   
 But coaches made adjustments. They came in at halftime. They were encouraging. They didn't get down on us. They told us to keep going and keep fighting and that's what we did. And things turned around.  
  
  Q. When things go that way, how hard is it to get it out of your head and try to start fresh and stuff?  
 STEPHEN SCHILLING: It's tough. But, like I said, the coaches were encouraging, which I think was different. You might expect a lot of yelling at halftime. They came in, they were encouraging. They saw we were close, and they weren't really doing too much to us. As long as we kept going, kept running our stuff like we knew how we'd be all right.  
  
  Q. Did you hear Terrance? Did the offense take offense at that?  
 STEPHEN SCHILLING: No, not at all. Terrance came over and sat down with our offensive line. He came and sat down before Coach Frey and McGee came in and talked to us about how it was on the lines to control the game, the offense and defensive line. Because we talked about it before the game. Obviously hadn't gone our way the first half. He came over, assured us that to win it for him and the seniors. Because he was pretty upset. But it was definitely some motivation for us for the second half.  
  
  Q. Is it different when you hear that from a teammate than if you hear it from your coach?  
 STEPHEN SCHILLING: I think so. Especially a defensive linemen. You go against him every day and battle and practice, have competition against someone. He came over and showed us support. We're all one team. To hear that from Terrance, definitely kind of a personal setting. Didn't yell at us. Just came down and talked to us, talked about what was going on and definitely I think helped us.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT