MLB ALL-STAR GAME
July 13, 1999
Jeromy Burnitz
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Jeromy, everybody has been talking about the emotion of this evening with all the
players on the field and Ted Williams came out, would you talk about how emotional it was
for you to be out there?

JEROMY BURNITZ: Yeah, it was a pretty awesome experience, to see everybody kind of
surround him there. It was definitely something I'll remember for a long time. We got to
see Eddie Murray out there, who I haven't seen in a while, and Robin Yount. So, yeah, it
was something I'll never forget. I also like Donna Summer, too.

Q. Jeromy, were there any other experiences that made this a special All-Star Game for
you?

JEROMY BURNITZ: I was thinking about that. And it's hard to pick anything out. I think
that there will be things that I remember later on, just a couple of things. Larry Walker
has always been one of my favorite players, and I got to hang out with him and talk a
little bit, and Bagwell, too. I never really get to talk to those guys, and that was a
really good time. And of course, that Home Run Contest was a blast. Coming into this whole
deal I was nervous, bad, for the first -- ever since I found out and then I got here and
it was very surprising to me ever since we put our uniforms on and walked out there, I've
been as relaxed as I could be and had a ball.

Q. How about the home runs, McGwire's performance?

JEROMY BURNITZ: I said it last night, it's the greatest show on earth. What you guys
saw last night is nothing new, he does it every single batting practice. It's the most
amazing thing I've ever seen. And you'll never see it again.

Q. From watching on the bench, do you wish you could have faced Pedro?

JEROMY BURNITZ: Not really. No. I don't have much desire to just strike out, you know
(laughter.) The guy is awesome right now. There's so much life on that fastball. You watch
it on the TV and it just rises. And guys are not catching up to it. And obviously what he
has done is speaking for itself.

Q. What were the guys on the bench talking about when Pedro was pitching?

JEROMY BURNITZ: Well, there wasn't a whole lot of talk coming on, guys aren't coming
back all happy and gay when they strike out, you know. There just wasn't a lot being said.
It was pretty obvious there's really not much to say.

Q. Before the Home Run Derby, you said you didn't want to make ten outs without a home
run, and you made it to the finals? 

JEROMY BURNITZ: My goal was to hit one, I obviously lost sleep over it knowing I was
coming into it. Once we put the uniform on, like I said, and got out there, I wasn't
nervous at all, I think hitting one on my first swing helped a lot. It was a pleasant
surprise. I wish it would have come down to McGwire and Griffey, because I think that's
what everybody was here to watch. Every time I went up there there was a nice hush in the
crowd. But it was a blast, I had a great time and I'm very happy the way it went.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT