U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 1999
Jenny Chuasiriporn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: Well, it doesn't really -- I don't know. It doesn't really feel any
different to me right now. But it is nice for me to look back and see that I had a strong
amateur career to lead me into the professional rankings, kind of. But I am excited. I am.
I feel like I am ready for the next level of competition.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: Well, the golf course is a great layout. I am excited to play. I
think it is going to just demand some really good drives off the tee and just some good
irons. It certainly is not as stressing as last year. Not stressing, but difficult. Then
the pairing, I am excited to play with Nancy. I have never played with her yet. It should
be fun. I am just looking forward to it.

Q. Nancy was talking about the fact that when she was a young player she wanted to
prove to the older players that she could play with them. Now that she is older, she wants
to prove to the younger players that she can still keep up. Where do you stand in terms of
obviously you have been in this situation with players last year. Is it any different now
that you are a pro that you want to prove --

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: Of course I want to play well and just kind of prove just to
everyone that I am -- that I am ready to -- ready to play at this level. But it just says
so much for the college golf and the junior golf that I have been raised on, just how
great of a level of competition it has given me as I have grown up. It is just neat to be
able to represent that group of people coming up and taking it to the next level.

Q. You had a very successful year at Duke this year winning the National Championship,
but you personally didn't play as well as you did last year. Do you think the expectations
are just so crushing on everything since that performance last year that everything is
harder for you?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: I think while I was in school I just -- I was kind of distracted a
little bit, just with the golf side and the school side. But I feel good -- I took a
little break in the winter, and it always takes me a couple months to get back into it.
But I feel like I have been swinging better than last year. It is just a little tweaking
here and there. I really got a lot out of this past week because I have been able to be
with my pro and just really getting the little stuff corrected. I feel 100% better, even
better than last year. I am swinging so much better at the ball, and then now I will just
have to wait for the putts to drop.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: Ted Sheftic. He is actually out here with me this week.

Q. Obviously your playoff last year is -- it has been a long week. I am sorry. Your
playoff with Se Ri has been well documented. One more time, can you go through what you
were feeling last year at this time toward the end the playoff round, what was going
through your mind especially when she made the shot from the water?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: Just on that day? I just felt really -- I think the difference, or
just last year I felt really confident with my game. I was striking the ball well and I
was just making a lot of putts. So I think the zone is kind of what -- what I'd call it.
It was a good feeling. I just -- everything really clicked together that week.

Q. How are you playing coming into the tournament to the Championship this week? How
are you playing?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: I am playing a lot better. Like I said before, I am swinging it
better than ever. It was just a matter of just making a couple setup adjustments, because
it -- nothing was wrong with my swing. It was just kind of my posture and a little bit of
grip. That is just the minor things.

Q. Every one of the pros that I have spoken to, every one of the players that were in
Kohler last year, when they think about this course as opposed to that course, they say,
this looks like it is going to be not easier, but maybe a little less taxing.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: Yeah, I mean -- Blackwolf run was definitely one of the hardest
courses I have ever played. But this course -- the fairways are little bit wider, and
there is a little bit more leeway. But it is still challenging. The grass is different and
the scores are definitely going to be lower this year.

Q. Wonder if you could talk a little bit about any kind of relationship you have had
with Nancy Lopez? Have you spoken to her? Did you consult with her or just ask her advice
about when to turn pro? Also, have you had any contact with Se Ri since last year?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: I think the world of Nancy. She is a great role model. I always say
I really look towards her for just the balance she has in her life, just with her family
and her golf. That is one of the things I am going to look towards into the future as I am
a professional, because I just -- I just think that is so important. I really -- I have
never played with her before, and I have talked to her off the course quite a bit. She
helped me a bit just with making the adjustments. I have talked to a lot of pros about
that. But I saw Se Ri actually at the Dinah Shore for the first time. She actually -- she
had actually did a press conference. She said she didn't recognize me at first. But it was
neat. I just saw her there briefly, then I really -- we really don't talk a lot. But I
mean we say hi -- we are friendly.

Q. What kind of advice did Nancy give you?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: Well, she was -- I guess she helped me out a little bit with just
management companies. That was the first thing. I am sure down the line she will give me
some more advice.

Q. One of the you had your older brother caddying for you last year. Who will be
caddying for you?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: My older brother Joey is going to be caddying for me this
tournament. I am playing in three more LPGA events in July. Depending on his schedule, he
will probably be caddying probably two out of three of those. I haven't really considered
anyone else yet.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: I just got three sponsor's exemptions from -- just from the
tournaments. They are allowed two of them. So they -- I just took the ones that came to me
early on.

Q. Which three are those, Jenny?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: Jamie Farr Kroger Classic in Toledo. Then the Michelob Light
Classic in St. Louis and Japan Airlines Big Apple Classic in New York. Then I am trying to
-- I am working on trying to play in the British Open, but I am not sure yet.

Q. We talked a minute ago about the expectations everybody has on you. What are your
expectations in your first tournament as a pro --

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: I realize there is a lot of expectations. I ran into a -- into kind
of that a little bit of that problem probably towards the end of my college career because
I did have a lot of expectations for me and my team leading into Nationals. But I learned
so much from that. You can't really play golf with all those expectations. All I really
care about is I want to hit the ball well. You can't really control anything else that
happens. That is all that I care about. I am not really worried about finishing a certain
way again or -- I just want to hit the ball well.

Q. Would it be easier for you to turn pro at a tournament like the Open where the
scoring is not that -- I mean, players are not going to win at 20-under or 17-under, and
also because you are comfortable with the surroundings having played in a couple of Opens?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: I guess my track record for Opens is pretty good, so I feel
confident. I feel confident coming into a course like this because I feel that my
ball-striking is good and that will get me -- that will go a long way. I don't know. I
think it is still going to be just as challenging though. I think they are saying it is
going to be pretty scoreable this course.

Q. How did last year changes your life? How did the whole year change just from being
runner newspaper U.S. Open and having the playoff and do you ever reflect on that?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: It was really quite a whirlwind towards the end of the summer. I
was pretty exhausted by August. I think it is great. I am really glad to be a part of just
the new way of kind of the young players coming -- of the young players coming out. But it
did -- we did get a lot of recognition for college, our college program at Duke. Just all
around more recognition for women's golf. I am glad to be a part of that.

Q. Last year you said one of the things you look forward to is going back, having your
senior year at Duke. Wondering, away from golf, was it as fun as you had hoped it would
be? Did you have as much fun in your last year of school?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: I definitely did. It was -- I mean, it was actually nice also to
have two really strong freshmen come in, because it did take a little bit of a load off my
back. I spent as much time as I could with my friends and just studying my last year. It
did kind of get me a little towards the end because I was a little bit more involved in
preparing for after college, rather than -- I just didn't have enough time to spend with
my friends towards the end of the year. I did my best. I am actually pretty happy with the
way it turned out.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: Not even close. Definitely the diploma. No, I am just kidding.
(laughs).

Q. Have you thought about what it would have been like had you been the winner that
day?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: I think about it a lot. There is that sense of disappointment, but
I am just a big believer in things happening for a reason. I could kind of go back and
imagine had I won, and it would have just been really hectic. So it turned out to be a
really great combination for my golf game and my kind of my life, my student life. So I
got the recognition that I always wanted, but then I was still able to go back to school.
It would have been -- I didn't want to go -- I didn't want to turn pro at all. It would
have probably been a little bit harder to go back. There was nothing in me that wanted to
turn pro at that time.

Q. Earlier, Annika Sorenstam was in here. We were talking to her about her play made
everybody else work harder and sort of raise the standard of play in women's golf. I
happen to know a lot of these players that you played on the college level, they weren't
going to let you beat them. They really worked hard and you kind of raised the standard in
the NCAA college ranks. Your thoughts there.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: That is nice to be credited for that. The college programs have
gotten better on their own, I'd say. There is a lot of foreign competition and in the
nation competition. I could see kind of sometimes people would compare themselves. I don't
know. I just -- I don't know how to answer that.

Q. You knew when you went up against them they wanted to beat you badly.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: Yeah, I could see that a little bit. It is good for them, because
the way I look back on it, I just -- I am just a typical college player, and I have the
same game as them. And it really just takes that one good week and one good -- one good
putting week or one good just ball-striking week to make that kind of difference on Tour.
It is just so close. I think it was good for people just because they started to believe
in themselves.

Q. You were a psych major in college. Why did you pick that field, and has anything
sort of transferred over to your golf game? Have you learned things in those classes that
may help you?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: I don't know why I picked psychology, but I really enjoy -- I like
studying it. I don't really want to do anything with it immediately. I don't really know
how it has helped. I won't say the classes have helped with golf. But I think it has
helped in other parts of my life. But I read up a lot on just sports psychology books, and
maybe it is that type of mind, I don't know. I can't really explain it right now.

Q. Have you ever been to a sports psychologist?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN: No, I haven't. But my pro works with a lot of mediums, so he just
kind of relayed that to me. I think I get more out of talking to my pro and my coach. I
think just talking to someone helps just as well.

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT