U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 6, 1998
Jenny Chuasiriporn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  First hole, chipped in from the front of the green.  That was just a great chip.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Pitching wedge, and I just picked out my spot that I was going to hit it and it was perfect, going for the center of the cup and turned out the way I wanted it to.  No. 2, oh, that was -- what did I do there?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, about 10-footer for birdie.  I don't know, I still was feeling good from the first chip and that was dead center again, that was just --

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  A sand wedge, my mid-edge, actually.  No. 5, that was probably my best birdie of the day. I don't know, it was pretty tough approaching.  She stuck hers pretty tight and I put a good swing on it and hit it up to probably about 15 feet, twelve feet.  Again, I had the line and my putter was just feeling good, so, after that, I just tried to stay calm.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I hit -- what did I hit?  Hit a 5-iron in there.  Then bogeys, No. 6, still didn't double all week - (laughs) - had one triple.  But, yeah, that was -- I had a 9-iron in my hand.  I think the wind was swirling and I still felt good with the 9 even because it was -- probably didn't affect the shot too much, but I pulled it a little bit, it took off the shot and I had no chance, so -- after that, the drop was probably 90 yards and hit it over and I think I just had too much adrenaline or something in the first putt and ended up 3-putting it.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I was definitely thinking 2-putt right there, just not to give away another stroke, but I just accelerated too much going through.  No. 9, oh, I hit a good shot in, but just closed the club a little bit.  It was perfect distance and everything, just a little too far left and almost made the putt out of the bunker, but caught the bunker shot too thick; didn't really accelerate enough for it.  On 18, bogey -- yeah, I just hit that -- the chip coming out was just a little too hot and then I pushed it a little right probably too.  But, the speed on it just took away any break I was trying to play.  Then I thought I had that putt, but my hands were shaking a lot.  Then I thought that I that was going to be it, but it didn't turn out that way.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I didn't -- I felt nervous inside a little bit.  It probably had to start somewhere on 12 because I was losing the ball a little bit right and I lost it right on 16 and 17 and 18.  That has all been the shot I was been fighting.  But I still had it under control and made a good up-and-down on 17, and made a good run for it on 18.  But --


Q.  After your 3-under through five holes and I think you had a 4-shot lead.  What was going through your mind at that point?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Three, four shots just wasn't enough for me.  I knew I had to make it more.  This course can get you - like it did.  And, I had those good breaks, great -- good birdies and I just tried to really keep it together and tried to keep the momentum going throughout the whole round, but Blackwolf Run got me.  So, that happens.  I expected some good breaks and bad breaks and just got a bad one.


Q.  What was going through your mind when you saw her in the water there on 18?  Did you think you had won at that point?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  No.  I definitely didn't think that.  I knew she was going to -- I knew she was going to be on the green for par.  And I knew she was going to probably be close because she is a really good pressure-player, and, I really didn't think it was over by then.  I just wanted to give myself a good -- actually was thinking just make par and get out of here and whatever she does, she does, and, you know, we ended up bogeying.


Q.  What were your emotions when you missed the putt on 18.  Joey had said you knew how well she played the first couple holes on 10, 11, 12.  What were you thinking then?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I really felt it slip away there.  I thought I was going to do it there.  But, yeah, for the rest -- I knew the sudden-death playoff was going to be pretty close.  I knew it was going to come down to one putt that one of us was going to make sooner or later.  I think we both were reading the greens well and it was a matter of one good stroke.  She got it first so.... 


Q.  How did you feel when you were sitting there watching her line up that last putt and watching it roll in? Was that real hard?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, it was difficult.  I really had a sixth sense feeling that she was going to make that.  I don't know, I made a good run for it the first time and I knew it was going to happen, I don't know.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Oh, no, probably after, right after I missed it, just I was feeling it, simple way a little.


Q.  The TV cameras kept showing your dad looking like he was going to pass out.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Oh, they did?


Q.  Your little brother was over there rolling around on the grass on his back.  Just wondering how were you under the conditions able to just even take the putter back on some of those, you could just feel the pressure mounting?  With all the extraneous enough going on, how did you keep your head in it?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I was able to block them out a little bit, most of the time today.  But, yes, I did have trigger anxiety, a lot today, just really just had to swallow and take it back most of the day.


Q.  Am I correct in thinking your Duke coach was here and, if so, could you tell us?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes, I didn't see him one time today.  So I am looking forward to seeing him after --


Q.  Did you have any other friends or special guests here today?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, my couple of teammates of mine from Minnesota, they drove in this morning.  One of my teammates left early this morning, had to go back to work and my coach came in.  I think that was about it.  Then several other --


Q.  I am sorry, his name.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Dan Brookes (phonetic).


Q.  I was curious if any conversation took place, you know, between you and Se Ri during the match?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Not very much.  (laughs) I would have -- I don't know, I would have -- I like talking to my opponents, but I think today you never know what -- I think we both had our caddies that we were comfortable with, and I think we were both just trying to stay really focused. We talked a little bit.  Not too much.  I told her to jump in the water, but she didn't.  (laughter).  I told her she had to. 

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes. 

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  She said:  No, I can't do it.  I was going to. 

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Right before we sat down, I was standing right by her, I was like you just have to jump in the water.  I just need to see that.  She didn't do it.


Q.  How do you feel about the way you handled yourself given all the pressure?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I am pretty satisfied with the way I handled it.  I mean, so stressful at times this week, it was -- this is just another thing to build my game and build my confidence and my mental game and just everything is just a big plus coming out of this tournament.


Q.  On 18 when it looked like it was taking a long time for her to hit, did that affect you in any way?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Not really.


Q.  Didn't it bother you at all?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  No.


Q.  What were you eating?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Those power bars.


Q.  You talked all week about your expectations were low and you were just having a good time.  But, given the fact that you came so close, what is the measure of your disappointment right now?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I don't know, I have -- I guess I really feel like I am going to win one, so, I am really not too disappointed.  I just wait until the time comes. 


Q.  Talk a little more about your putt on 18, what you saw and what you and Joey saw and what ran through your mind?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  We saw a left-to-right break. It was probably left center, left edge, and I probably hit it center which was I pushed it a little bit.  It didn't have a chance.


Q.  How long?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  It was probably about, maybe 15 feet, pushed it and a little bit before.


Q.  As one 20-year-old playing another 20-year-old, can you put into perspective what Se Ri has done winning two Majors at this age, just someone her other than age?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  She has done wonders.  People wait 30 years to win a major, sometimes don't even.  But, she is -- I mean, she has come along way.  I think she -- she has a great game and is probably going to win a lot more Majors in her future.  You should expect that.  I don't know, it is really something when you can pull through in a major and win it.  She has done it twice.  I don't know, it is something I will probably do one day.


Q.  Are you a fan of hers when you are not playing?  Do you follow the LPGA? 

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I wasn't before.  But I am sure I will follow them now.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  How old was she?


Q.  You are going to be a senior at Duke in psychology?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes.


Q.  You are going to graduate.  Do you have any expectations of turning pro after you graduate?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, I will probably consider it after I graduate.  I haven't really sat down and thought about what path I am going to go -- what -- how I am going to turn pro.  Like where I am going to play, what I am going to play.  But it looks -- I mean, it looks as though I will probably in a year's time, probably give it a chance.


Q.  Did you sense the crowd support you had today?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, they were great.  Yeah, they were just -- they were behind me all the way.  I could feel their support everywhere, just the magic in the air, almost.  But, yeah, I wish -- you know, I felt like they wanted to see the amateur win and I wish I could have done that for them.  But -- they deserved it.


Q.  When you think back, do you think you will dwell more on the 6th hole or the 18th hole?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Oh, probably the 18th hole. The last putt was more important than that -- the way I got there.


Q.  They asked you about the crowd support and the field.  But did you also get the feeling, as I did earlier, from watching people walk around that this really took on the an international competition?  I just wondered your thoughts there and getting ready for the Curtis Cup and everything else, it was really an interesting competition out there.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, it was.  I don't know, I didn't even -- I didn't think about that at all out there. Just another competitor is how I see her.  I didn't really think about the international part of it.  But, I am sure it will come into play in the future.  Yeah, but, I am looking forward to the Curtis Cup.  I like that rivalry, the friendly rivalry.


Q.  You mentioned you tried to stay calm on 5 after making the birdie; then you had too much adrenaline pumping on the dropshot on 6.  On the tee on 6, were you a little pumped up too much so and is that why it went over --

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I might have -- I think maybe I might have lost my focus a little bit.  There was a lot of  green to work with on the right.  There was no reason I probably -- I missed it left, but I knew I had enough club and I just I didn't catch all of it - I probably hit it ten yards less than I normally do, which gave it no chance.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, I was aiming right, so, just came over it.


Q.  Why is it so important for you to return for your senior year to Duke as opposed to turning pro right now?  And second part:  Is this going to change your life at all, do you think?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, this week absolutely changed my life, more than I would have expected.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Gosh, I just -- I guess everyone knows my face now, which is, you know, it will be fun, I don't -- I am glad I have that chance to reach out to so many people.  But, for returning my senior year?  I just -- I have been looking forward to it my whole life.  I am just not finished there.  I don't want to leave it unfinished at all. One year is a quick year and my first three years went so fast and I really enjoy school.  I love being there.  I love the basketball, the sports, everything.  I have an awesome roommate that I want to spend time with, and two great freshman coming in, too.  I am going to win a National Championship before I win an Open, I guess.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah.


Q.  Do you feel a rivalry now with Se Ri or maybe that will be something for the future?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  No, not really.  I mean, I think, you know, when I get out there I will be ready to take -- to take everyone on, but I don't feel a personal rivalry at all.  I don't think we are really matched up in the same tournaments enough to say it is a rivalry, but maybe eventually, I don't know.  I guess we will see.


Q.  I am guessing you thought you had a good chance to end it maybe on 10.  What happened with that shot and then with the putt after that?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  On 10?


Q.  Sudden-death.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Oh, yeah, I don't know.  That was a tricky putt.  I had about two mounds in my way, and I was kind of thinking 2-putt there, because it was a tricky break, tough to read.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  With the approach?  Not at  all.  I knew it was 50 yards and I just didn't take it back. I just took it back too short and didn't really be aggressive with it.


Q.  I have heard people refer to the fact that you remind them so much of Nancy Lopez, the fact that you are right in it.  I just wondered if she one of your idols?  Are you planning your life like her?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, if anyone, Nancy has probably been my greatest idol.  I don't know, that is such an honor to be compared to her.  But it is almost too much. But, it is nice to know how I am progressing and how I am developing and to be compared to her is very encouraging.


Q.  What does organized golf need to do to reduce the wage gap between men and female players?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  What do they need to do to -- I don't know.  I guess it is not -- I guess it is all up to the sponsors, the fans.  I think this is going to be a huge influence as well.  I hope the ratings go up and just the popularity of women's golf grows.  I think it is fun because, you know, the average golfer swings more like us, so it will be neat to see what happens in the future.


Q.  Do you mind if I ask if your parents plan to open the restaurant tomorrow or do you know when they are?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Actually I think they are probably closed tomorrow because they couldn't get a flight out until tomorrow morning, so I am sure they will take another day off.  They will be glad to do that.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  We eventually got one.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, we moved.  We already packed up anyway.  But, I don't know, I am really kind of scared to check my answering machine.  My locker was filled with notes.  I mean from the beginning of the week I probably got one note.  Then yesterday it was just filled.  It is nice to see everyone thinks about me.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I know.  (laughs)


Q.  Did you have any sense of the drama of the day?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, I did.  I don't know, I didn't let it get to me.  But, yeah, I felt it all day.  I was -- I knew it was going to come down to 18 and even more, I guess, you know, all day I just -- I knew I had to play a full 18 holes, so that I was just trying to get through that.


Q.  Given this crowd and this course and these conditions, how would you see about LPGA coming here on a regular basis?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I am sure they are working on  it.  I mean, the enthusiasm here is great.  It deserves an LPGA event.  I don't know what I can do for it, though.

(APPLAUSE)

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT