U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 5, 1998
Jenny Chuasiriporn
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Hole-by-hole?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Oh, gosh, well, I guess the big save was probably on No. 7.  I hit it into the bunker on my second shot.  I only -- I had a 7-iron into the hole and I pushed it right a little and I made probably like a 15-footer for to save par.  And then, again, on 8, two holes in a row.  I made probably a 20 -- probably a 20-footer for birdie.  Those were probably the two big putts, you know, in addition to the last putt, I guess, of the day.  Probably, oh, the bogey save on 15, I made a downhill like left-to-right putt.  Probably six feet, to save bogey.  Actually I was -- it was funny because Joey and I -- yesterday in the paper I think it said like only 11 people had -- didn't have a 6 on the three days.  That was my goal today, one of the goals, just don't get a 6.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  No.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  That was -- I pushed my 3-iron again and it actually, you know, was on too perfect of a line, going straight for the hole which I didn't intend, and it came in hot and hit a downslope and it trickled over into the water hazard.  But, luckily it went in over near the pins so, I could make up-and-down for bogey pretty easily.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I hit a 6-iron in.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I am thinking it was probably about 25 feet.  Pretty long.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I had -- I probably had about 155 to the hole and I was just going to play a 5-iron, put it back in my stance and just try to hit the green and 2-putt. I didn't really think I was going to have a hard time paring.  But I caught it in -- a little thick, or fat, coming out, and left myself probably like 90 yards into the pin.  And hit it over there to not -- it wasn't much that green to work with.  I pulled it a little and ended up chipping it short six feet and making that.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  17.  The par 3, gosh, I was -- I hit my 6-iron right of the pin and I went down the hill into the thick of rough.  But I had a pretty good lie, thicker rough coming out.  As I hit through it, it -- the rough grabbed my club a little bit so I ended up pulling it a little.  So I had probably about a good 15 feet left and I thought I made it.  I just left it a little short.  So.... Forgot to hit it.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I don't even know how long it was.  I am thinking 45 feet, maybe.  Maybe even more.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  On 18, well, I hit -- it was downwind, so I had my -- I hit a good drive and hit an 8-iron in and it was on a downhill slope, so I had left it off a little right, so which left me a good amount right.  And then the putt or --

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Well, I was walking back and forth and I was really trying to get the speed -- the feel of the speed of the putt.  It was a little downhill and Joey and I both looked at the putt and finally when I came back to the ball, I just asked him I was like:  Just tell me the spot. He said, you know:  About a foot left.  Because I really didn't want to think about the break because I just want -- I was just trying to feel the putt, the speed of the putt.  And as I -- and right before I hit it he just said:  Give it a good run for it - which means, don't leave it short.  I hit it pretty, pretty -- I hit it the way I wanted to and I guess the last 15 feet, it was -- my eyes probably popped out because it was going straight in.  I didn't expect it to go in at all.  I was really thinking 2-putt from there, at least.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  No, I actually -- I thought she was still 5-over and I thought I was almost playing for second.  But, yeah, so it wasn't until -- it wasn't until after -- right before she putt that I kind of asked someone, I was like:  What is she at or how many over is she?  They said:  6.  I didn't -- it wasn't until then that I realized it - she was putting for the win and not -- I thought she had to 2-putt so... I wasn't aware of it.


Q.  Jenny, who is the pressure on tomorrow, you or someone who already has a major this year?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I don't know, I guess -- I think most -- I don't even know.  I guess we probably have the same amount of pressure because she has already won her major and -- I don't know.  I am just going to just go out and have fun, I guess.  Nothing to lose from here on out so....


Q.  Can you talk about your emotions as you saw the putt go in the hole and are you kind of glad that you have a chance to sleep on it instead of going right back out there being all wound up?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I wouldn't have minded if we had to go right out.  My emotions?  I don't even know.  It was so overwhelming after it went in.  I just kind of turned to my brother and he was just delighted, almost in tears, so, couldn't really think straight at that point.


Q.  Is it hard to look at the money that you are passing up, that you have passed up and also have you given any thought at all about skipping your last year at Duke?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  No.  That was -- I don't care -- the money is not -- it was nothing ever I could have gotten anyway.  But, no, I didn't -- I don't really think about turning pro.  I am really looking forward to my last year at Duke and we have -- it is going -- I have a great roommate, a lot of friends back there and I am looking forward to spending my last year there.  But, no, not at all like I don't -- I don't want to turn pro at all.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I mean, not now.


Q.  You said you checked out of your hotel and all that.  What were you going to do tomorrow?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Tomorrow?  Oh, I was supposed to fly to Minnesota with the Curtis Cup Team for a four-day practice for the Curtis Cup.  Then my parents were going to fly home.


Q.  Check back in?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I guess so, somewhere.


Q.  What part of your game has really improved since the NCAAs?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Since Nationals?


Q.  Yes.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Gosh, probably my putting.  I have been working, tweaking a few things on my putting stroke and really just trying to get really comfortable with one stroke because I was wavering between different styles, the placement of the ball, or like forward-pressing or not. Finally I have kind of figured it out out here. 


Q.  Regardless of what happens tomorrow, are you likely to change the way you look at your own game and increase your expectations of how well you can play?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Probably, I don't -- you know, it is funny, I don't know if I -- I have been hitting the ball pretty similar like to how I have been hitting it for the latter of the spring season, so I am not, you know -- of course I guess the expectations go up, but I have never been really wanted to put too many expectations on myself or too much pressure.  I am just out there to have fun.


Q.  Two parts:  Your parents own a restaurant in Timonium, Maryland; is that correct?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  The Bangkok Place.


Q.  It is Thai food?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes.


Q.  No. 2, there were a lot of veterans out there. You were playing with one and they looked like they ended up being the ones who maybe cracked under the pressure and you  -- the two rookies, you and -- well, rookie and an amateur, were able to hold on.  Could you talk a little bit about that and why you think it is that you two are in the playoffs and people like Lotte and Chris Johnson are not?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Gosh, I don't know.  That is hard to explain, but I don't know.  I guess I can only speak for myself, but I just -- I really just went out there just trying to hit a lot of fairways and greens.  I didn't really have too many expectations.  I was almost like just -- I kept wondering what it is going to be like if I do win, but I guess I am one round away, I don't know.


Q.  You are a psychology major at Duke?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes.


Q.  Any carry-over to what you learned into your approach to golf?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Not really.  We just learn a lot of theories back there (laughter).  But, I guess it probably helps in some way or another, just whether or not specifically with golf, but just in general, it is always -- it is fun to learn it.  I don't really think I want to do much with it, like, beyond college, but I enjoy learning it, though.


Q.  How do you incorporate it in your life?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I don't know, I guess it is -- it is kind of neat to explore, like, the mind -- like, how people work.  I guess, that I kind of -- I like -- I enjoy just, you know, learning about people and -- that kind of sounds cheesie, but -- and, I don't know, I don't really know how much I have learned yet.  But it is just a bunch of theories so far.


Q.  I found out a lot more about you; that you really are a very competitive person on the golf course.  And you  are also a very, very nice person to play with.  I have to know this:  Are you a little disappointed that you didn't hold on after you got the lead at 12 and win it outright or are you just glad to be in a playoff?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Well, I guess, both, in a way. I am not disappointed at all about -- you have got to expect -- I had to expect bogeys to come some time or another out there and, you know, like I made a couple of bogeys coming in.  But those happen.  I mean, those couple of holes are pretty tough.  I am kind of -- I am kind of fortunate to be in the playoff.  I might as well not have been in the playoff had it not turned out this way, but --


Q.  You were talking about, you know, what you were thinking about maybe winning; what it would feel like.  What would it feel like to be the first amateur in several decades to win the U.S. Open?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  It would be a great honor.  It is neat -- it is always nice to -- wow, I don't even know how to explain it.  It is also neat to see like an amateur just do well, compared to the pros.  But, I guess it speaks for a lot of the level of the college play now.  I never thought personally that I was any different from a lot of the players out on the college Tour and just to be able to compare myself to these pros is always such -- it is such a good experience; it is a good learning experience for me and hopefully for a lot of people that I have played with in amateur golf and in junior golf as well.


Q.  You said before how much Coach Brooks (Ph) has helped you over the last few years.  I understand you talked to him last night.  Did he give you any advice?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, he actually -- one thing I remember is he just says:  Just don't think it is something that can't be done, is what he was telling me because, you know, he really basically just told me to believe in myself, just believe that it could be done and that four shots really wasn't very much to catch -- you know, to make up in one round; especially out there.


Q.  We had Se Ri in here.  She sounded anxious and excited to play with you because you are both the same age. Are you anxious to play with her and meet her and be out with somebody, a 20-something?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes, definitely.  Yeah, I mean, I really enjoy just playing -- wish the best for her too.  I think it will be really fun out there.  Just two, 20 year olds, I guess.  It will be exciting.


Q.  Do you know Se Ri at all and what is the highest -- I know you have won two ACCs but what is the highest you have finished in NCAA?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I haven't met her officially,  but I guess we both know each other now.  But, I guess the Nationals, I finished fifth, just as recently in Madison. And then the year before, I didn't -- we didn't make it to Nationals and my freshman year, I finished 19th.


Q.  Tiger Woods' mother comes from Thailand.  Your parents come from Thailand.  Is there a Thailand or Asian connection with good golf?  Temperament?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, I don't know, it is the Thai food, the spices.  (laughter).


Q.  What realistically were your expectations coming in here this week?  What were you gunning for and also would you have been exempt had you not been on the Curtis Cup Team, is that your way into the Open?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes, that was the only way into the Open.  And realistically, actually my parents came with me.  They closed the restaurant and they had -- they had the plane tickets and everything and my first goal was just to make the cut because, you know, I wanted them to watch a good four rounds.  That was basically my first goal, I mean, I didn't really think beyond that at all.


Q.  It seemed like yesterday because of the wind, nobody got a good shot at a birdie on the 18th hole.  Today you birdied it and Se Ri had a real good chance of a birdie. Talk about how differently that played as a finishing hole today compared to yesterday.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Well, I didn't -- after birdieing it yesterday, I kind of felt like my chances were kind of slim making another birdie.  But, from today, compared to yesterday, the 18th hole, played a lot shorter today; pin was up also from yesterday.  We had a downwind today.  Yesterday it was into our face, so, I think most of the players had a good 200 - maybe a little less than 200 into the green.  Today it was an 8-iron for me, so, it played extremely different.  I mean, a good like five clubs different.


Q.  When you are not playing golf, do you wait on tables at the restaurant or do you help out?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Not anymore.


Q.  I mean, have you done that?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes, I helped quite a bit, like, while I was in high school, but since I have been in college, they -- I go over there and help every time I can -- every time I have a chance, but they don't really need me all too much in college.  I have never had, like, an official job, you know, like I never had hours there. I usually go whenever they need help, especially on weekends.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I am all right.  I am not -- I don't like waitressing, actually.


Q.  Assess this course.  Is this one of the more  difficult courses you have played?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, this has got to be the hardest course I have played.  I mean, the length, especially, it is just playing so tough.  It really demands some good iron shots and consistent driving and just all-around good game, good --


Q.  Jenny, first of all, going back to what your coach said about believing.  Did you really start to believe today that you could win this thing with your putts on 7 and 8? And, the second part of this is:  Your play as an amateur, you play in a lot of head-to-head stuff.  Do you think that will play to you as an advantage tomorrow?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, in amateur golf we get so much experience with matchplay and I personally enjoy it more and more.  It is so much fun to have the player right there and just play him head-on and know what is going on.  I like it, personally.  I mean, it is fun to just have kind of everything in your face.


Q.  After the putts, 7 and 8 did you start believing --

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  When did I start believing in it or did I start --


Q.  After 7 and 8?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Those two putts, I just felt everything was going my way, those two putts were pretty long.  Those things happen.  That is what you have got to hope for when you are playing for a Championship like this. But, I believed it the whole way.  I didn't doubt that I -- I didn't count that I could win it at all.  But I just really hoped for some good breaks coming in.


Q.  Joey's influence on you?  You guys look like you have a real close relationship.  Was that soothing for you?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  He has caddied for me in both Opens.  It is nice to have him along because we have played together since we could walk and being only eleven months apart, we have pretty much experienced everything together in golf since we -- ever since we -- while we grew up.  He knows my game really well.  He knows my weaknesses, and my strengths and he is probably the best caddie for me right now.


Q.  Any disagreements out there during the week?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  On a couple of putts, but nothing major.


Q.  Does he read them or do you?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  We both read them and he kind of -- we kind of have to -- kind of agree on one line, but he helps me read them.  That is not my strength.


Q.  How old is he?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  He is 21.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes, I did.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I actually was about to hit my second shot, I turned to Joey, I am, like, I was:  Hey, there is George Bush down there.  He is like:  Oh, are you going to hit the shot or what?  He was, like:  What are you doing?  (laughter).  But, I saw him out there because I couldn't miss all those black suits, all the secret service out there.  You could see them right on line.  It was cool.  I didn't get to wave at him, though.


Q.  Who holes was that?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  That was on 16.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Right.


Q.  Do you have any kind of playoff record in amateur golf?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  No.  I think it is more wins and losses, haven't been very many.  I think the last two that I have been in I have won.  One was in the Eastern Championship.  That was 12th hole sudden-death playoffs.  We went to 12 holes.  Ended up making a long putt - was a 35-footer up a tier and it went in.  And, then, the second one was just for like a local women's golf association event near my -- in my hometown and there, I also made a putt kind of to save par on the first playoff hole.  That was like a 15-footer, so, it has gone pretty well.  I have been pretty lucky.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  So far.  The 2 that I can remember.


Q.  Are you aware of what a win would do for you as far as the LPGA if you did want to turn pro?  Have you let yourself think about that?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Not really.  I haven't really thought about it.  I don't know, I am looking -- I really am looking forward to going back to school, though.


Q.  Just briefly, could you give us your family's history in golf?  I guess your dad started playing --

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  He came over like in 1971, 1972 and he immediately got interested in the game.  He didn't -- when we were probably like one -- since we could walk he used to sneak us out like on the public course to play a couple of holes.  We actually got kicked off a couple of times.  But so since then my dad -- my dad is absolutely crazy about the game.  He goes out in all kinds of weather and freezing temperatures and just, anything he will be out there.  He  would play all day if he could.  But -- and he enjoys -- our -- we enjoy it as a family.  We used to have a foursome until the little one came along.  But -- so now we have to kind of split the time between like my mom and Jimmy, the little one.


Q.  Jimmy plays as well?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, he plays too.  He has played in a couple of tournaments too.  He played before us. When he was two he played in his first, probably a one-hole thing about 30 yards; he has played in his first tournament and played ever since.  It is part of our family, I guess.


Q.  Do you remember that public course?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  No, I don't remember.


Q.  Was it in Baltimore?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yes.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  My dad is probably like a 9 or 8 handicap.  My mom is probably more like a 16 or 17.


Q.  Any other interests or hobbies?  We don't know about you beyond golf.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Beyond golf?  I don't know, basically when I do have time, I really enjoy spending it with my friends and, you know, what do I do?  Gosh, I like to watch sports, so, that is why I like being at school.  I enjoy it, like the basketball games and I guess -- I don't get very much time off from golf.  But, I like to do a lot of things like -- I don't know, I kind of do a lot of random stuff.  I like to read a little and then listen to music and then just kind of relax.  I played with the UVA golf ball today.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I did.  It was -- this was funny because I played with a friend of mine, Louis Chitengwa, he is from UVA because I worked the UVA Golf Camp last week, we had a putting contest, the bet was if I lost, to play a UVA golf ball in the final round of the Open.  And I lost it.  So I don't know if anyone noticed, but --

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  It was a big V on the ball. And he had an amateur tournament that he was going to play in that he had to play a Duke ball had I won, but I didn't -- I was on his putting green too.


Q.  Your dad, before coming over here, was he an athlete at all?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, he played a lot of -- he played soccer and kind of on his free time he played ping pong is his did.


Q.  At a high level or -- 

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I don't know, he played a lot like in college, not for a team, though, but he enjoy -- he has been a really big athlete, you know, he loves sports and he got -- every chance he got when he was growing up he used to -- he kind of snuck out and either played soccer, shoot pool, played ping pong, like his mom didn't want him to do that when he was growing up, but he got out there.  So he has been the athlete in the family since we have grown up.


Q.  Your own development as a golfer, did you have a swing coach or anything like that?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, Ted Sheftic is his name. I have been with him for a long time, since I was about 12 or 13, so he has been -- he has done wonders for me.  I don't think I could have done it without him.  But he has really taken me in as a student and really done all he can for me.  He works at Hanover Country Club in Hanover, Pennsylvania.


Q.  The person you mentioned from UVA, was that a player on UVA?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, he is good player from Zimbabwe, actually.


Q.  Could you spell his name also?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  C-h-i-t-e-n-g-w-a.  He is a good college golfer.  Probably turning pro later on.


Q.  Play a Duke ball tomorrow?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Probably a Playing Ball.  Maybe the UVA ball again.  I have a dozen of them (laughter).

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Only used two, so...

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, we had bunkbeds, but the restaurant is kind of set up kind of -- it is set up as a house, so, there is an upper level to it and we stay there probably less than a year, just while the restaurant got started and --

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  We helped out a little bit.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  What did we do?  Gosh, we did  -- we kind of did the cash register and I helped a little like with the appetizers and soups and sometimes I hosted. But we kind of did everything.  Actually dish washing was what we had to do.  I can't believe I forgot that.  (laughs) That was the job.


Q.  How old were you then?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Probably starting at 8, we lived there, third grade. 


Q.  What about Thai food?  Do you like it?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  It is great.  Not to be biased but I love Thai food so....


Q.  Closed all week?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Oh, yes, they closed since Wednesday and then we are normally closed on Mondays, so, they just need to get a later flight home.


Q.  You parent's names?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  See, they have American names, which is Paul and Edy, but I like to give their Thai names, my dad name is Supoj, and my mom's name is Pornpimol; I like those names better.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah.


Q.  Does your name mean anything in Thai?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  My Thai name or --


Q.  Your last name.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  No, I don't -- actually it used to be like it -- my parents -- my dad's parents came from China, so, when they got to Thailand they kind of adjusted the name to be Thai, because the Thai names are naturally pretty long, so, I think it used to be like Sachua (ph); they changed it to Chuasiriporn.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Actually on my birth certificate at that time it is not even Jenny.  It is Wanalee, so that is what is on everything.


Q.  Does it mean anything?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I think it means Great Forest or something like that, Deep Forest, something Forest.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Stay out of the woods.


Q.  You said on TV that your brother, you and Joey were looking at the book, like the parking booklet that you get?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Oh, yeah, the ticket booklet.


Q.  Tickets for?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I noticed there was a Monday.


Q.  For passes for the family?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Just the normal like ticket badge or the ticket stubs that you have to wear and we both saw Monday, just from when we first got it and all week we couldn't figure out what it was for.  And finally on - I don't remember what hole it was - but probably on the back 9, I turn today him -- I finally figured it out.  I was like: Oh, it is for a playoff, the Monday is --


Q.  You knew there was a playoff?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I always knew there was an 18-hole playoff.  It didn't -- I don't know why, it just didn't click.  I was wondering why people wanted to come back  Monday.


Q.  How do you spend the week away from golf?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  What did we do?  My little brother wanted to go go-cart racing, so we did that one night.  We saw fireworks the night before, and we didn't do much.  Basically we just -- we hung around here to watch.  My parents went back out to watch.  For me, I just relaxed, you know, watched a little bit of TV.


Q.  You didn't have any, like, schoolmates or friends here?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Actually one of them drove in this morning from Ohio, an old teammate.  He just graduated and so that was only one and another teammate of mine from Minnesota was supposed to come, but she didn't drive in.


Q.  You stayed at the hotel a lot, quiet week?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah.


Q.  Jenny, when we had the lead-I know you are trying to play everything one shot at a time, one hole at a time, but when you got the lead did you find yourself starting to think about being the U.S. Open Champion?  Did you have to really put that out of your head?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, I thought about it.  I knew I had to hit some goods shots, though, coming in.  But after -- on 14, my approach shot, I thought -- I really thought it was going to happen, like I just -- I really felt it.  I was hitting the ball solid and then it was going where I wanted it to.  So really wasn't fighting anything.  Just had to play my own game.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  About eight feet.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  It lipped out.


Q.  Is this the best you have ever played?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Probably.  Definitely.


Q.  It is a dramatic difference or -- I mean, here you are with the best players in the world and --

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I guess over the past year it has -- last year I had trouble putting all three rounds together, all four rounds together.  I would always have like one mediocre round, but the latter part of the spring season I was really beginning to play well and usually like if I play in tournaments consistently, I usually start playing better, like it is the breaks that I take that kind of set me back a little bit.  But, this is probably the best I have played overall.


Q.  Do you know you led the Championship in greens hit in regulation?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  I didn't know that. 


Q.  Does that surprise you?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Probably, yeah, because I mean, I hit the ball well.  Gosh, I didn't know that.  But that is kind of neat to hear.  I have always been a pretty good ball-striker and I have always relied on hitting a lot of greens, hitting a lot of fairways and greens, and I guess that has really helped me out.


Q.  That has been part of your game?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Yeah, I mean, out here you just have to hit the greens, so it is really to my advantage, I guess.


Q.  Two things.  First of all, have you ever psychoanalyzed yourself on the golf course?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  No, not really.  I don't know, I just try to keep it simple, not really.  I don't really get upset because there is not really -- nothing to get upset about.


Q.  Any mind games that you could throw at Se Ri tomorrow as a psychology major?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  No, not at all.  Not at all.  I don't play that way.


Q.  One other thing:  You know the name of the restaurant you ate at last night?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  The Bangkok Place?


Q.  Last night, where did you eat?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Oh, we just ordered Chinese out.  We ate on the car watching the fireworks.


Q.  You don't know where you ordered from?

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  What restaurant?


Q.  Yes.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  It was the Chinese carry-out in town.  I don't know what it is called.  We have done that -- we did that for two nights, three nights.  Just something quick.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Thank you.

JENNY CHUASIRIPORN:  Thanks.


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT