MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY DANA
August 7, 2020
Megan Khang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  Q. Here with Megan Khang.  You finish your round today at 8-under.  What was different for you maybe compared to yesterday?
 MEGAN KHANG:   I don't know.  What was different today?  I wasn't hitting my driver quite solid at the start and sort of tried to figure it out mid-round; straightened it out mid-round.  So that definitely helped.
 And then just kind of again tried to give myself opportunities.  Lizette was playing well and I knew like with her momentum that would be great.
 But overall, I think I tried a little hard on some shots and didn't capitalize.  Got a little separated and just tried to limit the mistakes when there was one.
 Q. What do you tell yourself when you kind of feel you're a little off with something like your driver?  Does Kurt hospital you out in that moment, too?
 MEGAN KHANG:   So like after like a bad shot I'll tell him, Okay, I felt like I did this.  On the next shot let's just kind of smooth it out, do a little better, and stay confident with it.
 I just need him for like a little reassurance and stuff like that.
 Q. And you just Lizette was also firing on all cylinders today as well.  Does that push you to do better as you continue on in your round?
 MEGAN KHANG:   Oh, no, it definitely pushes me.  I was like, Kurt, let's try to catch her and stuff like that, but like, again, try to stay in our own bubble, per se.
 So, she played a great day and it was fun watching.
 Q. I know you two you were on the U.S. Solheim Cup team together.  Are you two good friends outside of this as well?
 MEGAN KHANG:   Yeah, we're good friends.  We were joking around the whole day today.  We were just talking about nonsense throughout the round.  We both just tried to keep it fun out there.
 Q. I know you said yesterday that you weren't comfortable at all.  You said.  Now that you've gotten even more rounds underneath you, what's it going to take to get your full comfortability back playing again?
 MEGAN KHANG:   I think just like constantly getting in had day after day, week after week, just really getting back into the groove of things.  I'm getting more comfortable out there, and it's just -- I'm just enjoying it.  I mean, you can't really overthink it.
 Q. What did you during the long break?  What was your highlight?
 MEGAN KHANG:   My highlight?  I took a lot of time off.  Did a lot of paddle boarding, a lot of outdoor stuff that I normally wouldn't do, I guess.
 I went to the beach quite a few times.  Not just the bunker beach.  No, it was fun.  I kind of just spent a lot of time with my cousins.  We did a lot of volleyball.  I mean, the height just -- clearly I'm a volleyball player.
 But, no, just really a lot of family time.  Couldn't really do a lot.
 Q. Where did you paddle board?
 MEGAN KHANG:   Somewhere on Rhode Island.  I actually don't know where, but on Rhode Island.
 Q. Got you.  You've put yourself in position.  You're in first place right now after two rounds.  Obviously the afternoon still has to play and I'm sure they'll play well.  Are you feeling confident in yourself and in your game going into this weekend?
 MEGAN KHANG:   Honestly, I'm feeling good about myself.  I know Kurt is there for me, and like as a team we're going to do pretty good, stay in the moment.
 And obviously the afternoon wave still has to go out, so when the day is done we'll see where that puts us and just kind of keep playing our game, play aggressive when we need to be or when we should be, and just kind of know when and when not to attack.
 Q. Are you a scoreboard watcher or do you just sort of try to focus on just what you're doing?
 MEGAN KHANG:   I guess it depends.  I typically do look at the scoreboard.  I know we have like the option to look.  I just -- feels wrong to me to take out my phone, so I just haven't looked at all.
 But, no, I feel like I'm probably going to not look at the scoreboard or take out the phone at all just.  Try to stay in the moment, because I have a tendency to get ahead of myself.  Knowing that, I'm just going to try to avoid it at all costs.
 Q. I know you said you lost your driver a little bit today and you were figuring that out.  Is that what you plan to work on for maybe some of the day today?  Is that what you're focusing on going into tomorrow?
 MEGAN KHANG:   Definitely.  I'm actually going to -- before you caught me I was going to the range.  Going to go to the range, figure out some driver, 3-wood, just really get my swing back in the groove and stay prepared.
 What's it called?  I don't even know what it's called.  I lost my track, train of thought.  Just stay in the moment.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT