SOLHEIM CUP
September 13, 2019
Megan Khang
Annie Park
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Just take me through your first Solheim match experience. What are the feelings after?
MEGAN KHANG: You know, first match, definitely (indiscernible) not what we were hoping for. But that doesn't mean that's how it is. It's match play, and a lot of putts didn't drop. We both couldn't hit it very well. So we're going to take a lot of positives away. And just kind of make sure we get everything squared away. And I'm sure we'll do better the rest of the week.
ANNIE PARK: I think we're pretty warmed up after that first round. Obviously it didn't go the way we wanted to, but we hit some great shots out there. Alternate shot, you're going to have bad shots, but it's about how you recover. And Megan had some really great putts. So we're both pretty warmed up and ready to go on.
Q. What was that first tee experience like?
MEGAN KHANG: I didn't hit the shot, so it was really fun for me. (Laughter.) It was really cool walking into the first tee and seeing like the whole crowd and the U.S.A., and hearing Azahara practicing the whole "Ole."
But Annie striped it down the fairway and she literally hit the first shot of Solheim for us.
ANNIE PARK: It was crazy. I thought I would be terrified, but I was actually pretty calm out there. I thought I would like not pull the trigger or like go behind a tree and do something, but it was good.
We had some -- we had some nerves out there but we were there to play golf. So, definitely warmed up.
MEGAN KHANG: Talked to each other and told each other, hey, no matter what, you're not hitting the second shot; I am, stuff like that.
But overall I think we were both very collective in a sense where we may be rookies, but I think we handled it very well.
ANNIE PARK: I think in the beginning we fought pretty hard, bounced back a couple holes.
MEGAN KHANG: We were down at one point, came back.
ANNIE PARK: For sure. And there were some good shots. So we're going to take away those good shots with us.
Q. Was there anything else you guys kind of learned from that first match that you might take into tomorrow?
MEGAN KHANG: I mean, alternate shots are really hard. I think in a sense where we don't necessarily get too down on ourselves. And we didn't do that today.
We were both, like, hey, don't worry, you've got this. No matter what, we've got this; we're going to come back no matter what. And I think if we stay in that direction it's going to be a really good week overall.
ANNIE PARK: I think in the end of the day it's just the same golf. But also having pressure out there, it's a good thing. It's a privilege. So we're just going to go out and have some fun out there tomorrow.
Q. How do you think Team USA has done overall, two and a half to one and a half, after the morning session?
MEGAN KHANG: It's just the morning session. But there's plenty more golf to play and more points out there. And I'm very confident in our team that we send out there, best ball. Can't wait to see how many points we get. And at the end of the day there's still more to come.
ANNIE PARK: For sure, it's still early. We've got a lot of golf ahead of us. The afternoon (indiscernible), I know they're going to do great, and we're going to root them on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT