AIG WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 1, 2019
Megan Khang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  5-under, solid opening round.  Are you happy with the way you played today?  
MEGAN KHANG: Yeah, definitely pleased with the way I played today.  My first British Open was here, so definitely a lot of good memories here.   
 Q.  You had a really good finish, as well, here.  
MEGAN KHANG: Yes, my highest finish as like a rookie in a major was T11 and was here, so a lot of great memories.   
 Q.  What do you like about this course?  
MEGAN KHANG: I feel like this golf course really suits my eye because a lot of holes are tree-lined and that's kind of how New England golf is, so I feel very comfortable here knowing that I play at these kind of golf courses at home.   
 Q.  And the last two majors this year, you've been playing really well, you had both top-10 finishes, KPMG and Evian.  How much confidence does that give you especially entering another major?  
MEGAN KHANG: It definitely gives me a lot of confidence knowing that my game is here and everything is coming along well.  I mean, coming off a top 10 at Evian is always a great feeling because that golf course is so challenging, but having back-to-back majors you kind of have to forget about that and focus on the new one.  But at the same time it's going in the right direction I feel like.   
 Q.  What has this year been like for you, and what have you been working on and what have you seen come together?  
MEGAN KHANG: My dad and I, my coach -- well, my dad is my coach, we've been working really hard on stabilising the swing.  That way when it comes down to pressure situations, it's not going to be as faulty, and kind of just staying in the moment.  I think as the year has gone by, some maturity has kicked in, and it's just getting to that point where I'm very confident in my game, and I just kind of have to do my own and not really have to worry about what anyone else does.  Again, like the putting is coming along, as well, so definitely proud of all that's coming and definitely still more work to come.   
 Q.  And last chance for double points for Solheim Cup.  It's the last major.  How much is that on your mind every week?  
MEGAN KHANG: Honestly, I know it's there in the back of my mind, but at the same time we're definitely here to win a tournament.  My team and I are here to just kind of focus on a win, and if everything works out accordingly, the points will come, as well.  Mainly focusing on the tournament at hand.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT