HUGEL-AIR PREMIA LA OPEN
April 27, 2019
Megan Khang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  You just shot the tournament record after not finding a birdie for 23 holes.  What happened?  
MEGAN KHANG: I just kind of stayed patient out there.  Mina kind of put the pressure on to start.  She stuck it to like less than a foot on the first hole and I knew it was going to be fun day.   
I just kind of stayed patient.  Knew we were having some fresh greens, and I wanted to get into that.   
 Q.  What did you tell yourself after the second round coming into today?  
MEGAN KHANG: I definitely told myself that there are a lot birdies out there since I left the second round wide open for them.  Out here you have to take what you get and try to roll them when you get the opportunity.   
 Q.  Coming in for tomorrow you're looking to get a later tee time for what movie are you trying to catch?  
MEGAN KHANG: I'm going to the movies tonight.  I'm not going to say like when and where, but definitely movie times are later in the night, and I wanted to play well today so I can get a later tee time tomorrow so I wouldn't have to wake up at 6:00 after being out until midnight.   
Worked out perfectly.   
 Q.  What kept you so consistent today?  
MEGAN KHANG: Definitely my caddie and I.  We just had conversation left and right.  We don't really talk about golf when we're walking on the course, so he kept me very calm and reminded me to play golf and don't get ahead of myself.   
 Q.  What non-golf topic do you talk about most?  
MEGAN KHANG: No comment.   
 Q.  What are you hoping to be take away from your game today for the final round?  
MEGAN KHANG: Definitely the confident putting stroke that I had today and committing to the shots and giving myself a lot of opportunities and capitalizing, when even if I don't hit the greatest shot, still end up in reasonable spot.   
 Q.  Take us through some of the birdies that you had out there.  I know the fourth hole there kind of from the hazard.  What were you thinking and what exactly were the changes you made between both rounds?  
MEGAN KHANG: Nothing really changed.  I think today knowing that I was early in the round and there was a better opportunity to do scoring-wise that I just had to be aggressive and stay within myself and not press so hard like I was yesterday.   
Overall, I mean, started off 1 where, again, like Mina hit a great shot in and I kind of wanted keep up with her.  We kind of just kept feeding off each other.  I managed to chipped in on 4 from the hazard, and my caddie and I kind of debated hard if should I go low or high.  My gut told me to go high, and fortunately I hit my spot and it was perfect online and hit the pin and dropped.   
Then kind of just made some good putts along the way.  Stay patient out there.  These greens are tricky, so we spent a lot time reading the greens together as a team.   
 Q.  When you have such a hot start, birdies on 3 and 4, when did it hit you that this could be my round?  
MEGAN KHANG: I think it never hit me until the back nine where I kind of started seeing more scoreboards, like where I was position-wise.  So I tend to look at the scoreboard and I kind of got ahead of myself.   
Again, my caddie stepped in and was like, Hey, let's just play some golf.  There are three holes left.  Let's put up a good number and commit.   
We don't want to leave any out there.  Give it 100%.   
 Q.  Tomorrow I know you were saying the later tee time is what you're shooting for, but what are you learning from your game playing today to keep the consistency and momentum into tomorrow?  
MEGAN KHANG: Definitely don't press.  Because yesterday I pressed a lot because I had been giving myself opportunities and I kind of like would try to force the ball in the hole and it didn't work.   
Today I kind of just picked a line, picked a stroke, and just focused on speed.  Overall, just kind of staying within myself, committing 100%, and trying to stay patient as I can.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT