ANA INSPIRATION
April 1, 2021
Megan Khang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
  Q. Megan Khang, one of the last groups of the day but still a spectacular finish from you.  Take us through the first round here at ANA.
 MEGAN KHANG:   I mean, like any time at a major, any tournament, you want to stay patient out there.  I felt that Kurt and I did that out there, so it was really nice to get the first rounds underway and just want to try and keep that momentum going into the next few days and just kind of take it one shot at a time.
 Q. You start of the on the back nine today and you were able to get off to a hot start.  Take you through some of those birdies and what was working so well on that back nine.
 MEGAN KHANG:   You mean hot start by bogeying 12, then yeah.  (Laughter.)
 Q. I misread, but...
 MEGAN KHANG:   No, I mean, like I guess that bogey fueled the fire to just get it back immediately right away which I did.
 And just kind of, again, giving myself opportunities and just really staying in there.  I mean, I made a great putt into 17 to get it to 1-under for the turn and we came into this back nine going, okay, we fought for the 4-under.  Let's try and get it to go lower, and we did that.
 Obviously there are still some missed shots out there, but there is always going to be missed shots.  You got to forget them quick and move on.
 Q. This is your first round at the ANA Inspiration that you've recorded in the 60s.  What does that do your confidence heading into tomorrow and maybe the mindset that you'll have?
 MEGAN KHANG:   Well, first off, I didn't know that, so...
 No, I mean, again, it's always great to start off the week strong.  Just kind of like, again, keep it day by day, shot by shot, and not try to get ahead of myself, because it's really a marathon out there, not a sprint.
 It doesn't matter what you do the first round but what you do throughout the whole week.  Just going to try and stay patient out there.
 Q. What have you been working on to get ready for the first major of the season?
 MEGAN KHANG:   So my dad and I, it's always a work in progress and always working on the swing.  Even with Kurt can out there I'm trying to like keep my mental game calm, cool, collected and just trying not to get either ahead of myself or like frustrated too early because in the end, again, it's a marathon.
 Q. And with that, what are you going to be working on tonight maybe before heading out a little earlier tomorrow?
 MEGAN KHANG:   Going to work on a little chipping, maybe a little like 5- 10-foot putts to make sure we're having a good stroke going into the next few days, and just making sure we see the ball roll in.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT