U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 2, 2018
Megan Khang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good score today.  How did you accomplish that 3-under?
MEGAN KHANG: I mean, my caddie and I just kind of said stay patient out there.  We knew with round 2 being still finishing that we had to stay patient.  We didn't know exactly what time we were going to go out.  Told me to stay in the moment, don't get too exhausted out there.
Just kind of went shot by shot and tried not to get ahead of myself.
Q. Did you hit it close on those birdies?
MEGAN KHANG: A couple of shots I was able to hit it pretty close.  On 18, I hit it to about a couple of inches, tapped in for birdie.  Took advantage of some par-5s.  Fortunately had a lot of good breaks out there and made a couple 20-footers for birdies out there.
Q. How much tournament around time did you have?
MEGAN KHANG: I finished both of my rounds.  I was just waiting on the wave to finish.  I was lucky.
Q. What did you think about the greens today considering all the rain we got last night?  Were they rolling putts the same way?
MEGAN KHANG: Definitely.  With the amount of rain we got last night and the weather being the way it was the past couple of days before the tournament started, I think the greens are rolling exceptionally well.  The grounds crew as done an amazing job.  It's rolling nice out there.
Q. Do you think the hole locations were more difficult than the first two rounds or not really?
MEGAN KHANG: Given the conditions with the amount of rain they did get, if it weren't to rain last night it definitely would have been a lot harder.  With the rains softening up the greens just a tad, it was not as hard as it could have been.
Q. What do you think is the lowest score to get out there today?
MEGAN KHANG: It's very gettable today.  A couple of the tee boxes are moved up.  If you are one to have longer hitters you, can get it out there.  But I think definitely 5-under is out there at least.  I know a lot of the holes are definitely gettable.  Some positions are in, like, little bowl area, so you can definitely attack them like that.  And again, if you are coming with a shorter club, you can spin them and check them where you want to go.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT