THORNBERRY CREEK LPGA CLASSIC
July 5, 2018
Megan Khang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Obviously a bogey-free day.  What was working?  Everything obviously.  
MEGAN KHANG: Yeah, it was pretty good.  Curt and I stayed steady out there.  We kind of stayed patient; let the birdies come to us.   
Started out hitting some pretty close shots to get things rolling, and then Amy and I kind of fed off each other on the front nine.  So decided to stay patient out there and keep the back nine like that.   
 Q.  Tied your lowest career round on the LPGA.  Did you see that coming this morning?  
MEGAN KHANG: I definitely knew that the course was gettable; low scores are going to be here.  Just last year I think the winning score was 22 under.  Definitely with the amount of rain we got we knew that we could go after some pins and just kind of take advantage of that because you don't know how the weather is going to hold up for the rest of the week.   
 Q.  Do you feel like getting out in the morning allowed you to take advantage of the rain and maybe it's going to be a little tougher for the girls in the afternoon?  
MEGAN KHANG: I think definitely, because knowing that it down poured yesterday for a good 30, 40 minutes definitely was like, Okay, we can go out there in the morning, be aggressive, kind of take pins on even with like a 6-iron, because we knew it wasn't going to release so much.   
If it was going to release any it was only going to go maybe one or two, so it was definitely pretty good having a morning tee time for this kind of day.   
 Q.  What do you like about this golf course?  
MEGAN KHANG: I definitely like this golf course, how it's kind of like a more tree-lined course than some of the other golf courses we play.  Some the holes you don't necessarily need driver off the tee, and a lot of courses most time you're hitting driver off the tee.   
This is a course you can be aggressive with, and I personally like to play aggressive.  I think this will be a good week.   
 Q.  Anything you changed coming into the week?  
MEGAN KHANG: I changed my grips, but other than that, not really.  Shoutout to Paul.   
But, no, I mean, just kind of gotten to that state where I got to get that confidence back up.  Did a lot practice rounds not really just hitting a lot of practice, shots but more playing as if I was in tournament competition.   
I think with that kind of mentality, I thought, Okay, we play this like, it'll be a great week.  Just kind of keeping a level head out there.   
 Q.  It's early, but what does it feel like getting in the clubhouse as the leader?  
MEGAN KHANG: I'm definitely excited to get off the course.  It's so hot out.   
No, I mean, there is plenty of golf to play.  The afternoon wave hasn't even started.  But it's good feeling coming in with a low score to get the week started, and hopefully get another good round out there the next few days.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT