BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 17, 2018
Megan Khang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bogey-free round.  A lot of birdies on the card.  Tell us about your day.  
MEGAN KHANG: It was a steady day.  I mean, I had Caroline in the group, and just we're good friends and everything.  Kurt was always there just saying, All right, let's just take it easy.  Caroline started birdie, birdie, and I was like, Okay, now it's my turn to start to catch up.   
We just stayed patient out there and didn't get too frustrated.   
 Q.  What was the highlight of the round?  
MEGAN KHANG: There were no fives on the scorecard.  I think that was the highlight.   
 Q.  Any long putts?  
MEGAN KHANG: Any long putts?  The majority of my puts were relatively close, so ball striking was good today.  I did have a longer one on -- gosh, I don't remember my round like right after I do it.   
 Q.  It was just so good.  
MEGAN KHANG: I really don't remember my round.  I think my longest birdie putt was today on 15, par-5.  It was maybe 15, 20 feet.   
 Q.  When you start out like today, you obviously got to get in an attack mode.  That's a little easier to say than do, isn't it?  
MEGAN KHANG: Yeah, it's definitely easier knowing you're going after someone rather than trying to make that lead bigger.   
In the end, it's golf.  You know if you get ahead of yourself it's not going to be the greatest result.  Kurt was there always reminding me that we have to stay calm, stay in the moment, because if that happens, then Lord knows what is going to happen after that.   
 Q.  Tomorrow by the time the leaders finish you may be chasing them again.  You like that position a little bit better?  
MEGAN KHANG: I mean, it's the position I'm stuck with right now.  I wouldn't mind leading the tournament.  In the end, the course is very gettable today.  I think the afternoon wave and the leaders are going to do quite well as well.   
So we'll just see how I end up at the end of the day and just take it from there.  Try to do my best again and try to put up a good score, and hopefully it'll be up there.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT