MARATHON CLASSIC PRESENTED BY OWENS CORNING AND O-I
July 20, 2017
Megan Khang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Finishing at 3-under for the day, you're right there in the hunt.  How do you feel coming off of round 1?
MEGAN KHANG: I feel pretty good.  I mean, I'm feeling pretty good about my game.  I've been striking the ball a lot better, trying to figure out the putting situation.  The greens are rolling great, and I think as long as I start to trust my stroke a little more, it'll start going in more.
Q. Some course changes, obviously, for this year.  Are there some things that you are taking away from today, lessons learned, so to say, going into tomorrow's round?
MEGAN KHANG: Definitely.  I think today was definitely a lot softer than the practice rounds have been.  I heard we got some rain yesterday afternoon, so I think with that being said, we technically weren't really assuming the greens were going to be this soft.  Given, they're still pretty firm, but compared to practice rounds, they're a little softer.  Some holes we tried to play for the softer side, and then other holes we tried to play actually five, ten yards short of the green.  This course definitely makes you think a lot, especially with it being this firm.
Q. And we're expecting possibly rain again today.  It's probably nice that you got to go in the morning group.  With what you just said and with the thought that there could be rain again, obviously that's got to play a role in your mind for tomorrow?
MEGAN KHANG: Yeah, definitely we're going to use the first few holes as a feel test because I will be in the afternoon and the sun will be out, so it'll definitely dry out the course from the morning.  But we'll see.  I think this course holds up well against the rain, so it doesn't mean -- I saw Jane Park's Snapchat, and it was pouring, and the fact that on some of the holes I had like a 60 degree and I was still playing five yards short of the green and it still managed to get like pin high, it's definitely saying a lot about this course.
Q. What was key for you today?
MEGAN KHANG: The key I think definitely was when I did miss the green I tried to limit the strokes, but I think ball-striking today was really solid.  My dad and I trusted each other, hit a lot of good numbers, and when I made a few errors, we kind of wanted to take our par and go away.  So it was a lot of teamwork today.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT