JTBC FOUNDERS CUP
March 20, 2016
Megan Khang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Megan, in your LPGA professional debut, tied for 11th in the Bahamas, looks like you're going to better that here.  Did you expect to have so much success this early?
MEGAN KHANG: Definitely no.  But I wasn't counting myself out of the tournament.  I mean everyone comes in here thinking that they can win, and I'm truly one of those people.  Because if you don't think you can win, there's no point in coming.  But I'm just happy that I'm playing well this season so far, and I hope to continue that the rest of the year.
Q. Only three events in, what's this experience been like for you so far?
MEGAN KHANG: It's been amazing.  I went from being a rookie from not many people knew about to walking on the fairway and going "go Megan" and I'm still in shock going, oh, me.  That's me.  So it's definitely exciting and I look forward to the rest of the year.
Q. I have a feeling we'll be hearing a lot from you for a long time.
So Megan, your last events with coach and you obviously had the time off with the three Australian events?
MEGAN KHANG: I'm sorry.  Is it okay if I don't look up.
Q. With the Asian events you had some time off.  What were you working on in your game?
MEGAN KHANG: After Ocala he went a spot of time working on my swing because my swing wasn't really there, but we spent a lot of putting, too, because everyone knows that you hit for show, putt for dough.  So we did a lot of putting.  I think that's starting to come along, and everyone knows that you're going to have to keep practicing with putting so it's a work in progress, but I'm happy everything is coming along.
Q. How much confidence does this week give you to where in a really strong field you're finishing likely Top 5?
MEGAN KHANG: It gives me a lot of confidence knowing and reassuring myself that I can compete out here, so I think it's good for my confidence, and I look forward to the rest of the season.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT