U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 10, 2015
Megan Khang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. You are low Am, congratulations on that.  You made the cut.  What were your thoughts on the round, were you comfortable out there today?MEGAN KHANG: It was definitely some pressure out there because I knew that going in 1-over might do it -- I mean 3-over is kind of pushing it.  I knew I had to play my own game out there and take one shot at a time. I made the turn and made a couple of hiccups and I knew after that you've got to lay down the law and go after these pins. But I think in the round I was asking too much for birdies.  I was trying so hard.  So coming down the stretch, I relaxed a little.  I said if it's meant to be, it's meant to be.  If it's not, there's plenty more to come.  A putt dropped and I made a good par save on 8, and 9 was a great shot in for me.Q. You said you were really happy with the conditions yesterday after the storm came through.  Now you're playing in the afternoon, are you still happy with that?MEGAN KHANG: I'm still happy.  Actually, no, I'm not disappointed, because this course takes so much beating throughout the week, in practice rounds.  I'm not disappointed in these conditions.  Of course you're going to expect there are going to be some spike marks.  Near the end of the round you knew there were spike marks.  It could have been worse, but it was still great condition.Q. Players said it was really slow out there?MEGAN KHANG: They actually were.  I couldn't tell myself to commit to hitting it harder than I had to.  I don't feel that there were opportunities out there for birdie, but overall I'm still happy I made the cut.Q. And you finished birdie today.  How does that make you feel going into tomorrow?MEGAN KHANG: Finishing with a birdie is definitely great, because 9 is a tough hole to birdie, I feel.  So going in I think that I can play out here, as long as I stay relaxed, I don't go for the birdies as hard as I want to.Q. Were you at Brookline, as well, Massachusetts?MEGAN KHANG: No, Rockland.Q. Which high school was that?MEGAN KHANG: Rockland High School.Q. And you're going to Wake Forest in the fall?MEGAN KHANG: Actually I haven't decided on a school yet.Q. So he was telling me, I guess your dad, Lee, I guess they all started playing golf several years ago?MEGAN KHANG: Yeah, they started in the 2000s, when it was raining and they couldn't play soccer.Q. And I guess your dad was pretty good at golf right away?MEGAN KHANG: Actually, no, he said he was terrible, that's why he quit every other sport and focused on golf.Q. (Inaudible.)MEGAN KHANG: Once he got hooked my mom was working and she said, you've got to watch our kid, too.  So he got me started and took me to the golf course, and said if I will hit a fairway, I could drive a cart.  But the rule was I couldn't drive on holes 1, 9, 10.Q. Were you pretty good at it or did it take a while until you thought you could make a go of this?MEGAN KHANG: I want to think I had a knack for it.  From a young age you knew it was pretty much hard, so it frustrated me, as well, so I wanted to get better.Q. Did you play any other sports?MEGAN KHANG: Not really.  I snow boarded and I messed around with soccer with my cousins, but nothing really serious like I do at golf.Q. And your dad is in business.  What does he do for a living?MEGAN KHANG: He teaches golf.  My mom is a kindergarten teacher.Q. Do you have any other brothers or sisters?MEGAN KHANG: I do not.Q. So you're an only child.  How did you qualify for the U.S. Open?MEGAN KHANG: I played in the qualifier.  I played at -- I forgot the course name.Q. How long ago was it, was it a couple of months ago?MEGAN KHANG: A couple of months.Q. Which state was it?MEGAN KHANG: Massachusetts.Q. This is obviously your first U.S. Open?MEGAN KHANG: No, it's actually my third.Q. So you're probably not as nervous then?MEGAN KHANG: No, I'm still nervous.Q. What have you been doing to prepare coming into this?MEGAN KHANG: Treat it just like another golf tournament.  You always have to know that you're playing with the best golfers in the world.  So it's definitely a little scary.  But it's just how you handle it out here.Q. The first few days of practice, what were you able to fix by Thursday and today that you think you did well that maybe you weren't doing so well?MEGAN KHANG: I didn't want to come in with any negative thoughts, so I just kept thinking positive thoughts.  I played this golf course before and some days weren't as well.  I tried not to come to this course negative.  We just focused on getting up and down because this course you have to learn how to get up and down.Q. Did you make the cut in your two previous Opens?MEGAN KHANG: I did not.Q. First time?MEGAN KHANG: I feel a big sigh of relief right now.  I knew coming in the last three holes I was 3-over total, so I knew I had to make birdies at the end of my round and thankfully some putts dropped.Q. Obviously your dad is your caddie, your uncle is here, who else is here, any other family members?MEGAN KHANG: My aunt is here.  My mom is here.  I know my dad's friends that he used to play golf with.Q. You have fans following you?MEGAN KHANG: Yeah.Q. Are both your dad's parents still alive?MEGAN KHANG: No, they're not.  They passed away a while ago.Q. What's the goal going into tomorrow?MEGAN KHANG: Just taking one shot at a time.  The hard part is over, now I can just relax and play some golf and have some fun.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT