U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 12, 2015
Megan Khang
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  General thoughts on your round, first of all?  MEGAN KHANG: I mean my round was going around pretty smooth.  I didn't make as many mistakes as I did in the last few rounds.  And then I was able to recover well.   Q.  What was your experience in the U.S. Women's Open?  MEGAN KHANG: It was a lot of fun.  I knew what I had to do and just play my own game because the hard part about making the cut was over.  So I just played relaxed out here.   Q.  Did you know where you stood in relation to the other amateurs?  Did you have that on your mind?  MEGAN KHANG: I did know where I was because the two behind me, Mariel and Muni were actually my friends, so we're all close.  I know we're all friends, but on the golf course we're fighting to the last second.  So I knew where I was, and I wanted it to stay that way.   Q.  Have you talked to them at all this week?  MEGAN KHANG: Oh, yeah, I talked to them before our rounds.  When we see each other in the practice rounds, we always wish each other good luck, even though at the end of the day we do want to beat each other.   Q.  When you're with them, do you talk about anything other than golf?  MEGAN KHANG: We try not to talk about golf because we are on the golf course almost the entire time we're here.  So we talk about other things, maybe our dads on the side.  We'll talk about the course sometimes, but we try to refrain from talking about golf.   Q.  Your performance this week, does that have any bearing on where you think your future goes?  Do you lean more towards turning pro with how well you did this week or does it play a part in it?  MEGAN KHANG: I do still have a lot of work to work on with my game.  But like I said before, the biggest goal of mine is to go on the LPGA Tour, and this definitely gives me a lot of confidence to compete out here with the women.  And it does -- I'm not going to lie, it does influence me a little to come out here and play on the Tour.  We'll see how this year goes as an amateur.   Q.  You made birdie on 16, that played really short today, 235.  Walk me through what you did on that hole and if you had any thoughts on how short it was?  MEGAN KHANG: Going into 16, I knew I needed a birdie.  But we went in there, it was 240.  My dad convinced me to hit driver.  So I thought I was going to hit a hard 3-wood, but driver was the right play because I could just hit it smooth and it actually went a little long.  But I knew that I could get up and down, so I relied on my short game on that hole and luckily I did make birdie.   Q.  Were you trying to watch the board to see where your friends were?  MEGAN KHANG: Actually, no, I was more interested in seeing if the final group went off or not.  But I mean I definitely wanted to see if my friends were playing well or not so I would know where I was in the tournament among the amateurs.  So I was looking, but I wasn't really occupied about them.   Q.  Have you ever won a USGA medal of any type before?  MEGAN KHANG: No, I don't think so.  I mean I get the medal for the U.S. Girls Junior for the amount of times we've played, but I've never gotten the Medalist Award or anything.  I did finish semifinalist in the 2013 U.S. Girls.   Q.  Of all that you've accomplished, where does this stack up for you in your career?  MEGAN KHANG: It's definitely among the top, I think maybe No. 1 right now, besides Kingsmill, because it is the U.S. Women's Open and it is the best women in the world.  It's great to compete out here with them.   Q.  You said earlier this week you played this course before?  MEGAN KHANG: Yes, I played it when the AJGA Rolex was here and when the Western Women's Amateur was here.   Q.  You're already into the Women's Amateur?  MEGAN KHANG: I am, but I don't think I'm going to go play because there's a Symetra Tour at home.  So I've already got a sponsor exemption into that tournament.  I can't pass on that offer.   Q.  What's the next event for you coming up?  MEGAN KHANG: The next event for me and actually my last U.S. Girls Junior, it will be my 7th one.   Q.  Are you happy it's done?  MEGAN KHANG: It's bitter sweet.  You always want to keep playing, but there's a time you have to move on from junior golf.   Q.  Where are you going to school?  MEGAN KHANG: I actually haven't decided where I'm going to go to school yet.   Q.  2017 or 2016?  MEGAN KHANG: I actually just graduated high school.   Q.  Is there a deadline that you have to decide that on?  MEGAN KHANG: I'm actually not entirely sure if there is a deadline.  I know the schools want to know.  But I should probably give myself a deadline  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT