WEGMANS LPGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2014
Lisa McCloskey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  KELLY THESIER:   Good afternoon, everyone.   We'd like to welcome Lisa McCloskey into the interview room.   Lisa, second year player on tour and a great first round today, 5‑under, 67.   Four straight birdies, 6, 7, 8, 9.   Take me through that stretch.   What was really working well in your game out there?   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Yeah, I didn't actually know it was like four in a row.   I was just kind of in the moment and putter was really working well today and the last four holes I guess I just‑‑ you know, I didn't stick them super close, but I was makeable range, probably 15 feet, and yeah, I just felt really comfortable with my putter.   So just kind of not thinking about things and just trying to be in the moment.   
KELLY THESIER:   This is the first time that we've played out of this golf course at Monroe Golf Club.   What is it about the golf course that stood out to you today and what do you really like about it?   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   I think it's really fair.   The fairways are really wide, so I think it's‑‑ yeah, even the long hitters have kind of I'd say a pretty big advantage this week.   And you know, I'm nowhere near a long hitter, and I still think the course is pretty fair, you know, on the holes that are longer, they still have that kind of that big runup right before the green so you can kind of run a wood up there.   
But yeah, I think the course is really good and the greens are really, I think, fair pace right now.  
KELLY THESIER:   For a lot of the people in here that might not have known you before, I was reading some of your little stats and talking about how you've lived in so many different countries.   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Uh‑huh.  
KELLY THESIER:   I think I counted five total?   Is that right?   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Yeah.   There's five.   
KELLY THESIER:   Colombia, Venezuela, Abu Dhabi, Italy and the U.S.   What took you to so many different places?   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   My dad's a petroleum engineer, so we just kind of moved around.   Ever since he graduated from college, he's been kind of moving around, and he met my mom, who's Colombian, and we've just kind of lived all over the place.   
I love it.   I think it's awesome to experience new cultures and go different places.   If I could, I probably would have lived in like ten different countries.  
KELLY THESIER:   So this tour is absolutely perfect for you as we travel all over the world.  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   It is.   It is.   I mean I miss home a little bit sometimes, but for the most part I love seeing the world, and I wish I could get into more of the Asian events.   But yeah, I mean we get to go everywhere in the U.S., and you know, just really nice places all the time.  
KELLY THESIER:   Well, if you keep playing like this, I think you'll be getting into more of those Asian events.   We'll open it up to questions for Lisa.   
   
 Q.   Your favorite place to live, and why, out of the countries you've lived in?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Probably Colombia, just because I was born there, and I have a lot of my family there, and I just love the people.   They're so welcoming and friendly.   
But I don't know, at the same time I love Abu Dhabi.   It's so modern and so much to do, and great beaches.   It's just good and Bads with every place, but probably Colombia and Abu Dhabi.   
   
 Q.   The conditions of this course this morning, toward this afternoon, do you think it's going to get tougher this afternoon?   Do you think it's going to get easier?   Do you have any opinion on that?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   The last couple holes it seemed like the wind was kicking up a little bit, so that could play a factor.   But I mean I teed off at 7:48 and it was still a little breezy, and probably a little bit wetter.   
I think just kind of depends on the wind, but I'd say probably play about the same.   
   
 Q.   Did you have an issue with your card this morning or something?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Oh, no.   
   
 Q.   No?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   The hammer issue happened when I was in college.  
   
 Q.   Oh, okay.   I thought maybe driving to the course.   Obviously you drove the ball well today.   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   No.   I probably wouldn't be here.   Yeah, no.   That was a while ago.   
   
 Q.   What's been the toughest part of being a pro?   Today you made it look easy, but‑‑  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Just kind of getting used to have a cut every week.   I know this is my second year and I should probably be used to it by now, but I feel like that kind of affects the way that I play.   It kind of just tenses me up, and I can't play as free as I would like to.   So I think that's been really, really hard for me.   
I mean once you kind of have like one or two good tournaments, it's easy to kind of relax and feel more comfortable out there, but this year I just haven't really gotten anything going.   So it's quite a bit harder.  
   
 Q.   So then for tomorrow you're giving yourself a nice little cushion.   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Uh‑huh.  
   
 Q.   How will you try not to think about the cut tomorrow?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Yeah, hopefully the cut won't come into my head.   But I mean I haven't been in this position either, really ever.   So you know, I'm just going to kind of take it as it comes and try and be relaxed.   I have a local caddie this week and he's been really good at just kind of keeping me calm and talking about other things.   So I think that helps.  
   
 Q.   Is this your lowest round on tour?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   No.   I think I shot like 64 in China last year.   
KELLY THESIER:   Speaking of last week, you played really well at the Meijer LPGA Classic.   Is there something in your game right now that's really seeming to be working well or is it just building that mental confidence of playing well?   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   I think it's more mental confidence.   I've played‑‑ like I've played better in past events, but just haven't been able to score.   You know, I haven't played great these past two weeks, but the scoring is a lot better, and just being comfortable if I miss the green that I can get this up‑and‑down and kind of making birdie putts when they come to me.   
   
 Q.   Lisa, you mentioned your mom is from Colombia.   Where is your father from?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   He's from Detroit.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   So you're an American citizen?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Yes.   Both.   Yes.  
   
 Q.   Okay.   So I see you played on the U.S. Curtis Cup team.   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Yes.  
   
 Q.   That was why I was asking.   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Yep.   I've played for both countries probably since I was 10.  
   
 Q.   So you have dual citizen?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Yeah.   I have dual citizenship.  
KELLY THESIER:   When did you pick up the game and where were you living at the time, I guess, when you picked it up?   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   I was like five, and I was living in Venezuela, and they just had this junior program, and‑‑ yeah, so my parents both play and so does my brother, so kind of like a family thing.  
KELLY THESIER:   Pretty natural then that you picked up the game.   Any more questions for Lisa?   Well, great playing.   Make sure to keep it up the rest of the week and we look forward to seeing you in here a few more days.   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT