PURE SILK-BAHAMAS LPGA CLASSIC
May 24, 2013
Lisa McCloskey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   All right, Lisa, well, you shot 5‑under par today on the 12‑hole golf course here at the PureSilk Bahamas LPGA.   Just talk about being on the first tee today and thinking I'm playing 12 holes.   How do you kind of wrap your mind around that?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Well, I just kind of took it as just another 18‑hole round.   
You know, a couple of the holes were playing I guess like par‑3s, and we didn't really expect some of that, so it was just kind of get up and get your yardage and just kind of hope it's the right club.   
But I mean the course is really receptive, like on the greens, and you know, we were first group off, so the greens were rolling really, really good, and I was lucky enough to have a couple of putts go in.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about any big birdies you had, any long putts, chip‑ins, anything like that.   
LISA McCLOSKEY:   The whole round was pretty steady.   I mean if I did miss a green, it was maybe on the fringe.   I didn't have any like chips or anything.  
The only one that was like a big birdie I hit it on the last hole it was kind of in the weeds on the right and I was hoping to maybe salvage a par, maybe bogey would be fine and I ended up hitting it pretty close to the green and made like a long, long putt for birdie.   So that was just a bonus.  
   
 Q.   How far was that putt, do you remember approximately?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   50 feet, something like that.  
   
 Q.   Just talk about obviously clubhouse leader very early in the day, 5‑under par on 12 holes.   What are you going to do the rest of the day and looking forward to tomorrow, that kind of thing?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Today I'm probably just going to go ‑‑ it's so early I don't think I can eat lunch yet.   But I'll probably sit around, maybe practice a little bit and eat lunch and then head back and relax and if I want maybe go to the pool or enjoy the beach, something like that.  
   
 Q.   For those fans out there who might not know much about you, just tell us a little bit about yourself, what you're into aside from golf?  
LISA McCLOSKEY:   Well, I'm actually a dual citizen.   I was born in Colombia.   My mom is Colombian.   So I speak Spanish and English, which is really nice.   And I'm pretty average.   I love to do all sorts of stuff, hang out with my friends, go to the beach is one of my favorite things to do, and just happy to be out here this week and playing well.  
   
 Q.   Thanks a lot, Lisa.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT