FORD SENIOR PLAYERS CHAMPIONSHIP
July 13, 1997
Jack Kiefer
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JACK KIEFER:  2nd hole, I hit a bad iron shot to the right of the trap, right of the green, and then holed it for 3.  So that was just trying to make 5 there, ended up making 3.  The next hole, I almost holed out of the trap, hit the pin, and I had about a three-inch putt, made birdie there.  5, made it from five feet.  6, I made it from about 20 feet.  I missed short putts on 7 and 9 for birdies, and I 3-putted 10.  11, I birdied from like two feet.  13, I made bogey, hit it -- only had 190 yards to the front of the green.  Hit it in the trap and airmailed it over the green.  Made it for about 12 feet for six.  3-putted 15 from about 15 feet, and then hit it about a foot on 16.  And, then, 18 must have made about a 25-footer. 
 
JACK KIEFER:  16, I hit sand wedge. 
 

Q.  That 3-putt at 10, did that kind of kill the momentum?
 
JACK KIEFER:  Yeah, it did because I hit it right off the tee in the high grass, hit a great shot out of there just to get it on the middle of the green, left it about four feet short and made the putt. 
 

Q.  How far were you at the start?
 
JACK KIEFER:  30 feet.  I was going down over the hill.  I thought it would come down over there. 
 

Q.  Looks like it stopped your momentum there?
 
JACK KIEFER:  Right.  But I turned around and birdied the next hole.  You know, if I don't make any birdies for a while, then, yeah, I would say was the turning point of the round.  But, I came back with a birdie -- the one that really hurt was the one on 13, when I made six there made a 12-footer for par. 
 

Q.  Were you checking the leaderboard at any point along the way there?
 
JACK KIEFER:  Yeah, I like watching it.  No, I follow it all the time.  I do. 
 

Q.  Did you get the feeling in the middle of the round there that this may be, you know, you're coming from quite a  ways back, relatively speaking with so many guys.
 
JACK KIEFER:  Yeah, anybody could maybe break out. I felt like I got an early jump by birdie-ing 2 and 3.  Then 5 and 6, I still had three holes left on the front nine.  I figured at least the 7th hole was a good birdie hole. 
 

Q.  Thought you might post the score --
 
JACK KIEFER:  That's right.  That was the idea, especially from, you know, being like three or four groups ahead of them, if I could put a score up there, but Larry, he held out all day long.  I mean, he's got, what, a three-shot lead playing 18? 
 
JACK KIEFER:  We used to play a lot in the winter, the National Club Pro Championship, I played with Larry and against him.  Then the winter events down at PGA National, we played many years against each other, you know, now with Dana coming out, Quigley, I mean, there's a pretty good gang of us out here now, maybe seven or eight of us.  We feel comfortable out here.  I do, anyway. 
 
JACK KIEFER:  It was fourth last year. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT