TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 20, 2019
Zach Sucher
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just get some comments about your round.  Looked like a pretty strong finish.  Probably wasn't the only part of the round that was good.  
ZACH SUCHER: Absolutely.  The driver was the best part of the round.  I think I only missed one fairway and that was 10.   
Out here playing the ball up and the rough being thick, hitting fairways is huge.  Bogey-free, which is always nice.  Missed a few I could have made on the front nine, but overall it was pretty solid from every part of the?  Game.   
 Q.  Must be pretty satisfying.  I understand you got a late invite into the tournament.  
ZACH SUCHER: Exactly right.   
 Q.  Seems like when that happens you've got to take every chance that you get and make the most of the opportunity.  
ZACH SUCHER: Exactly right.   
 Q.  So you feel like you've done that today?  
ZACH SUCHER: Exactly right.  I was playing in the Korn Ferry Tour event in Springfield, Illinois last week and I didn't know what exactly to do.   
I think I was one out to start the week and I don't think there were very many withdrawals.  There might have been only been two withdrawals, and they give the Korn Ferry Tour sponsor invites out, which is nice.   
So I was looking at it, and I was really happy to see that they had those left.  I was three out on Friday morning and got to one.  I was like, Okay, that's going to get in.  So that was nice to at least have an extra day to say I'm heading there no matter what.   
Yeah, absolutely.  It's nice to get a good round in books for sure.   
 Q.  You've played here a couple times.  
ZACH SUCHER: That's right.   
 Q.  What have you learned from playing here that you put into practice today?  
ZACH SUCHER: I learned that the back nine in particular, if you just play it right, if you hit it in the right spots, it's pretty simple.  It has a lot more trouble than the front, but if you keep -- you know, around the greens if you miss in the right spot you can get away with not hitting it perfect.   
Front nine doesn't have as much trouble but it's probably more difficult on paper than the back.  Yeah, I've learned the back nine just hit it below the hole.   
 Q.  It's your career low round.  You've played I think 35, 36 events, something like that, on the PGA TOUR.  
ZACH SUCHER: Yeah.   
 Q.  Career low round.  
ZACH SUCHER: Really?  I like that.   
 Q.  Yeah.  So does that change your expectations for the rest of the week?  
ZACH SUCHER: Not really.  This year has been good.  This year I've been playing really good golf.  Coming back from injury picked up some distance and I felt great all year.   
So it's paid off a few times in Korn Ferry Tour.  Had two Korn Ferry Tour weeks.  Haven't had a full week on the PGA or full four days.   
But it's nice to have one -- I mean, I know I can do it.  I've played well enough this year and I'm finally hitting it further, to be honest.  That's been huge for lower scores.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT