AL DIVISION SERIES: INDIANS v MARINERS
October 15, 2001
Mark McLemore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q.  It looked like Cleveland might have a chance top get out of that inning.  What were you looking for?  Were you looking for a specific pitch to hit in that situation?

MARK McLEMORE:  Something good, something out over the plate, not in the dirt.  He was throwing his forkball once he got ahead of you, and it's a tough pitch to hit.  I was looking for something that wasn't in the dirt and fortunately found some grass.

Q.  You had a couple of chances to blow the game open, and didn't, were you worried that that was going to come back?

MARK McLEMORE:  One thing we've done pretty well is not worry about anything, not panic.  We've got confidence and faith in the rest of our teammates to pick us up, and that's what Jamie did for us today.  You've got to give their pitching staff credit for getting out of those situations and making good pitches to get us out.  So it wasn't just us making the outs, Cleveland had a little bit to do with that, too.

Q.  Mark, obviously you played so many positions, how comfortable are you at shortstop?  Do you consider second base more your natural position?

MARK McLEMORE:  How comfortable do I look at short?  (Laughter.) I'm pretty comfortable at short.  Second base is the position that I've played the longest.  I feel pretty comfortable with every position that Lou has put me at.  I think the ones that I'm not comfortable at, he hasn't put me there, so I don't really worry about that.  Whenever he puts me at a spot I go out and try to catch the balls and make the plays.

Q.  We're not going to see you as a left-handed closer?

MARK McLEMORE:  You're not going to see me touching that mound unless Lou makes a pitching change, and it won't be me that he's changing to.

Q.  You also looked comfortable from the right side of the plate today.  Would you talk about that?

MARK McLEMORE:  Well, I can look comfortable and still not get hits.  So I was fortunate enough to get a couple today.  I've been feeling comfortable the whole series.  It isn't that I haven't had a whole lot of success.  It happens throughout the course of the year.  You don't want this to be the time it happens, but fortunately my teammates were there and picked us up, or picked everybody up.  The one thing we've done extremely well all year long is not depend on one guy.  We've had 25 guys, and we've pretty much spread it around to everybody. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT