NBA ALL-STAR 2020
February 15, 2020
Ben Simmons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How has the addition of Al Horford been like?  
BEN SIMMONS: I love Al. Al's the best. He's been such a good leader and vet to us. We're blessed to have him in our presence, just the way he carries himself. He's a true pro.   
 Q.  What do you think about a potential playoff matchup with the Miami Heat?  
BEN SIMMONS: The Heat? I mean, it's kind of tough during regular season. The playoffs are so much different. It's more physical, and it's a different style of play. I'm looking forward to getting to the playoffs, but we've got a while for that.   
 Q.  On Jimmy Butler:  
BEN SIMMONS: He's been playing well. He's being Jimmy. He's a great player. He's a great facilitator. He can handle the ball and get guys in the right spots. So he's doing well.   
 Q.  Can you talk the All-Star experience? What are you guys talking about when you're off the set?  
BEN SIMMONS: I haven't seen too many guys yet, but I think just enjoying the moments that we have here. It's an exciting time to be at All-Star. It's a blessing. We're very fortunate to be here.   
 Q.  Were you ever thinking as a kid that this was going to be your spot?  
BEN SIMMONS: Yeah, definitely. I had no doubt in my mind growing up that this is what I wanted to do, and this is where I wanted to be.   
 Q.  Do you ever think as a kid that you wanted to make that special shot?  
BEN SIMMONS: Not really. I just played. I go out there and play.   
 Q.  In the Dunk Contest tonight, who do you have as a favorite?  
BEN SIMMONS: I don't have any favorites. I'm excited to see what they got, though. No favorite. I promise you.   
 Q.  On his partnership with Joel Embiid:  
BEN SIMMONS: It takes time. Not everything is supposed to be perfect. Not everything works straight away. We're two different people trying to figure it out.   
I love playing with Joel. I think he's an amazing talent. I've got a lot of respect for his game, and I know he feels the same way about me. As long as we continue to strive and go the right way, I think we're going to be fine.   
 Q.  The NBA has started talking about adding an in-season tournament like they do in soccer, where you guys get a trophy midseason. They've talked about having a play-in tournament for the last two teams before the playoffs. What do you think?  
BEN SIMMONS: It sounds pretty exciting. I think people would definitely be invested in watching those things. I'm down to try it.   
 Q.  Would the players care about winning a trophy halfway through the year?  
BEN SIMMONS: I think just winning in general. People want to win. No matter what the situation, I think people are going to go out there and compete.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT