NBA ALL-STAR 2019
February 15, 2019
Ben Simmons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  If you had a choice, would you rather cross somebody over and make them fall on the ground, or would you rather posterize somebody?  
BEN SIMMONS: Either one.  I'll take either one.  Both are pretty satisfying if you're doing it.  So I pick either one.   
 Q.  Now, you've been on the receiving end of a couple recently that's been well documented.  Are you looking for payback in the dunk department maybe to posterize somebody?  
BEN SIMMONS: No, not really.  I think it's one of those things that happens during the game.  I'm not really looking for payback, though.  I came out that second half and dominated.  So I wasn't really worried.   
 Q.  Is there anybody you would maybe want to embarrass, just you have bragging rights and say, "I dunked on you"?  
BEN SIMMONS: I never want to embarrass anybody, but I'm going to come out and play hard and try to get the win.   
 Q.  On the 76ers:  
BEN SIMMONS: I think we're in a good position.  I'm looking forward to building more chemistry with these guys.  We recently just made the trade.  So I think for us it's just going to take a little bit of time.   
 Q.  On Rising Stars:  
BEN SIMMONS: I think it's just another platform, another opportunity for us to come out here and show what we can do.  I love being part of the World Team.  I think that's one of those things where I love coming to an event like this and playing with guys who are all over and then finally be able to team up with them.   
 Q.  Do you think the Sixers will win The Finals?  
BEN SIMMONS: Why not?  That's a bad question, come on.   
 Q.  How would you describe the All-Star experience?  
BEN SIMMONS: This is my second time here.  It's always busy, but it's always a lot of fun.  I'm just looking forward to playing in the All-Star Game, also.  That experience of being around so many great players.   
 Q.  What's your stance on playing --  
BEN SIMMONS: I'm not really focused on it right now, but I know when I have the right opportunity to go play and represent Australia, I'll do that.   
 Q.  Who do you think will win Rookie of the Year?  
BEN SIMMONS: Luka.   
 Q.  What's it like representing the 76ers in the game?  
BEN SIMMONS: It's always a great opportunity for me and the organization.  I'm looking forward to just going out and having fun.  Whenever I get to represent the Sixers on the court, it's a lot of fun.   
 Q.  Thoughts on Luka as a player?  
BEN SIMMONS: I think he's great.  Athletic, runs the floor well, shoots the ball.  Yeah, Luka is good.   
 Q.  The NBA is coming to India.  Do you think there could be an Indian player on the World Team later?  
BEN SIMMONS: On the World Team?  For sure, of course.   
 Q.  How do you see the progress and improvement in your game?  
BEN SIMMONS: I think I'm getting better.  It just takes time.  I'm just going to continue to work.   
 Q.  How do you see the changes as you grow in your leadership on the floor and off the court?  
BEN SIMMONS: I think trying to make everybody get comfortable, trying to find their rhythm on the floor.  As a point guard, that's one of the things you have to be mindful of.  Coming to a new team, it's not easy for them to just fit in.  So as easy as I can make it for them to fit, that always helps.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT