NBA ALL-STAR 2018
February 16, 2018
Ben Simmons
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Your name has kind of been blowing up around the world now.  Can you talk about that and how you try to stay grounded?
BEN SIMMONS: Coming from Australia, it's always kind of been like that.  I've been talked about since high school and coming off my sophomore year.  But I'm kind of used to it.  It's cool.  But at the same time, I'm grounded.  I have a big family.  I'm the youngest of six, so they keep me grounded and let me know that I'm the youngest in the household.
Q. Can you talk about the effect you're having on kids in Australia coming up in basketball?
BEN SIMMONS: Yeah, I heard the percentage of kids playing basketball is going up, which is amazing.  That means a lot, just to be a face to a lot of young Australian kids.
Q. What's it like sharing the experience with Dario [Saric] and Joe [Joel Embiid]?
BEN SIMMONS: It's amazing having those guys here.  It makes it easy for me to go out and play, knowing that I'm going to be on the court with them again.  So it's going to be a lot of fun.
Q. I heard Coach saying in practice, OK, the Sixers' group and then two others.
BEN SIMMONS: Yeah, it's three guys on the court.  We might as well start running our own plays.  So it's exciting.
Q. What do you know about the Rookie of the Year race?
BEN SIMMONS: I'm focused on my team making the playoffs.  So all the other accolades and awards will come in time if I do my job.
Q. Do you watch Donovan Mitchell much?
BEN SIMMONS: I'm not an individual type of guy.  I watch team games.
Q. How are you viewing tonight's game?
BEN SIMMONS: I want to win, but I want to have fun at the same time.  So having fun usually comes with winning.
Q. How is it so far playing in the NBA?
BEN SIMMONS: It's been amazing.  I missed out my first year, which was frustrating.  At the same time I had a whole year to grow.  But it's been great so far.
Q. What do you think is the strongest point for you skill-wise?
BEN SIMMONS: Scoring, rebounding and passing the ball.
Q. Does this rookie class feel special to you?  You've got so many guys coming into the league.  Do you feel like this will go down as one of those special rookie classes, like '96?
BEN SIMMONS: I kind of look at it like my class, but it's not really.  I'm kind of with the other guys [the 2016 class] at the same time.  But also I didn't play, so I'm considered a rookie.  But I think it's a great class.  Great players.  It's exciting to see these guys play.
Q. Does it motivate you at all when you watch other guys?
BEN SIMMONS: Watching the guys at the top, LeBron, Westbrook, Giannis, K.D., Steph, guys like that, they motivate me.
Q. When you look at this talented group of players, what's it mean to play in the All-Star Game?  Who do you think is next to play in Sunday's game, and is there a race to get there?
BEN SIMMONS: Hopefully I'm next.  We'll see.  It takes a lot of work and it's a grind, but I'm looking forward to it.
Q. Have you talked to the vets about a rookie not making it?  It seems like that's just what happens, right?
BEN SIMMONS: Yeah, I mean, I'm not concerned about that.  It's not something that I'm holding on to.  It's one of those things that happened.  It's really rare [for a rookie to make the All-Star Game].  LeBron didn't make it, guys like that.  I think the last one was Blake [Griffin].  It's obviously one of those things that I wanted to be in it, but it didn't happen and we move on.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT