QATAR TOTAL OPEN
March 4, 2021
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  P. KVITOVA/A. Kontaveit
 6-3, 3-6, 6-2
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. A tough result today.  When you look at the match, obviously there was a ton of breaking of serves for both you and Petra.  How difficult is it to find your rhythm when serve is being broken so consistently throughout the match?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   Well, I don't think there was anything wrong with my serve.  I think she was returning extremely well.  Yeah, she just returned so deep and into the corners and took initiative from my serves.
 I didn't feel like I was serving badly.  It was just her return was excellent today.
 Q. Obviously you were able to step up your game.  In the second set, you became more aggressive in your returning games.  What were the adjustments you made in the second?  And then ultimately when you're playing someone who is playing such an aggressive style, what are you trying to do out there?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   Well, I was trying to stay in the points a little bit longer, and I managed to do that.  Then the game got a bit more competitive.  I got into the match, but it was still very close and there was very little in it.
 I don't feel like I was doing too much differently from the first or third set.  I just tried to stay in it as long as I could and play aggressive and make the points a little bit longer.
 Q. What makes Petra such a great competitor and opponent?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   Well, I mean, she played extremely, what's the word, aggressive on these, like, big moments.  She was very successful.  She always fights.
 There were so many times when I was up 40-15 on my serve and she'd come back.  Because she's got such big weapons, the game is never over until it's over.
 Q. And despite losing today, what kind of positives do you take away with you from the week in Doha going forward?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   Really difficult to look at the past matches right now.  I'm really disappointed.  I felt like I played a very good match and I still lost.  So it's a little bit difficult to look at the big picture right now.
 Q. You'll be competing in Dubai next week?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   Correct.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT