AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 27, 2020
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KONTAVEIT/I. Swiatek   
6-7, 7-5, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How did you manage to put the setbacks in the first set behind you and still pull it off?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I was just trying to keep going and fighting as much as I could. You know, there was a lot on the line, so I was just trying to do my best out there.   
 Q.  What does it mean to be in the quarters?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: How does it feel?   
 Q.  What does it mean to you?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, I mean, it's really special. It's my first time in a quarterfinal, so it's definitely a big deal for me.   
 Q.  US Open, take me back to that tournament. What happened to you there? Subsequently, I know obviously with the virus and everything impacting, can you just kind of talk through what your year was effectively like until you could start practicing and going full and preparing for the 2020 season again?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, I have talked about it so much, but -- that's okay. It was really hard. I mean, so tough to retire at a Grand Slam. I mean, yeah, it was a really tough time, really tough couple of months after that.   
Yeah, but I'm so happy I'm through that now, and, yeah, I started training in mid-November or something. Yeah, it's been only uphill from there (smiling).   
 Q.  What were your expectations then when you got to Melbourne? Did you look at your draw and say, Yeah, quarterfinals, that's gonna happen?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: No, definitely -- I mean, I never look ahead so much and try and take it match by match always. Yeah.   
 Q.  Can we have a word for the British reporters here about your coach and how he's contributed to your success?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: It's going really well with Nigel. I feel like my game is improving constantly. Yeah, he's definitely a really big part of this journey.   
 Q.  Did he give you a lot of support in that tough period after New York?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah. It was great from him, like, supporting me and sticking around. And, yeah, I mean, I couldn't do much -- I mean, pretty much anything for months. He was really patient with me. He was really supportive.   
 Q.  He described you as being a young 24 because specifically with respect to your match play ability, learning how to play matches particularly well and making the right decisions and stuff like that. Is that how you kind of feel, as well? How would you kind of describe your evolution as a match player in terms of what that means to you?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I'm sure he's right. I mean, I do feel like I'm constantly getting better. But, yeah, it's a long process of learning and getting more mature on court and getting used to the situations and everything.   
Yeah, I'm just, you know, trying my best, I guess. But, yeah, he definitely thinks the way you said what he said.   
Yeah, I'm just -- I can do as much as I can, you know -- I can only do my best. So I think the key is that I constantly keep improving.   
 Q.  Do you feel calmer in matches like today? Even in those tight ones, watching it slip, things like that, but do you feel different now with more experience and more, you know, exposure to those moments, I guess?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I guess I feel a bit calmer than I used to.   
Yeah, it's not ideal, but it's a constant process, I suppose.   
 Q.  What do you take from a win like that today into the quarters? Because you seem to be battling yourself at times in the match today.  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Well, it was a really, really tough match. I mean, Iga is a really good player. She was really tough and she was playing great tennis.   
Yeah, I just had to stay tough. I mean, of course it wasn't easy. I feel like I could have done some things better, but I'm so proud of myself the way I was fighting through until the end.   
I think it definitely gives me a little bit of confidence getting through those close matches. Yeah, it's important.   
 Q.  And the quarters? The next round.  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, I mean, I'm looking forward to playing against Simona. It's been a couple of years. I mean, she's a really great player, so I have got to play my best tennis, for sure.   
 Q.  What's the challenge for you in playing against Simona?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I mean, she's incredibly consistent. She's playing so well, moving so well, and I have definitely got to be consistent but try and play my game and be aggressive.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT