BRISBANE INTERNATIONAL
January 2, 2019
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KONTAVEIT/P. Kvitova   
7-5, 7-6   
 Q.  Nice win.  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Thank you.   
 Q.  And welcome back.  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Thank you.   
 Q.  Can you talk through a little bit of the second set, come back in particular.  Seems like maybe that talk with Nigel maybe settled you down a little bit?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah.  I think Nigel coming on definitely helped me a bit and gave me some confidence and reassurance, and I think I was doing the right things.  She just played extremely well on my service game on 3-2 was it when she broke me.  Yeah, she had some really great returns, and I didn't do too much wrong, so I just had to stay stuff and try and stay with her in the second set.   
 Q.  If I remember at the end of the matches, playing so many times against Petra what kind of match you can expect today.  But you were really tough for her since this is the first match.  So I wonder what do you like most in this matchup?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I'm not sure.  Maybe it's the way I play.  I mean I don't know.  I mean she's beaten me most of the times.  I've just beaten her once at the French Open.  So it's been a tough match every time, like you said, but she's come through most of them.  Yeah.   
 Q.  So just talk about the off season a little bit.  I think you did your preseason in Thailand.  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah.   
 Q.  So what were kind of the main bullet point things that you were trying to focus on during the preseason and was Nigel there with you the whole time as well?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, Nigel was there the whole time.  I did my preseason in Thailand, like you said.  We worked on a lot of small things.  I think one of them was definitely my serve first and second.  Yeah, but on the forehand and the backhand, consistency, yeah, just small cleanup things.   
 Q.  And did you feel coming out of that that you've seen the work that you put in there translate immediately in these two matches or is it still a works in progress?  What do you think?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I think some things definitely have shown on court.  Like my serve's been better than last year, and, yeah, I think I'm very happy with the improvements and the way they've shown this week.   
 Q.  Anett, this was a good win for you, obviously, but a lot of people are saying on social media it's not an upset because of what you've been able to show us in the past.  How do you bring in those expectations for yourself now that you've climbed a little bit higher in the rankings as you come into these tournaments wanting to go deeper?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah.  I think these matches have -- I mean those wins have definitely given me some confidence, and I feel like I can compete with the Top 10 players, and I have that inner confidence feeling like when I go on court, anything is possible.  And, yeah, but I'm still right now out of Top 20, I think.  So there's not too much pressure with the rankings.  When I play Petra, I mean she's Top 10.  I think she has a bit more pressure than I do.   
 Q.  Knowing that your ranking is important year after year, have you set in the goals for this year?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah.  I've set my goals.  Of course.  As I got to Top 20, I mean last year, for a brief second, I'm definitely aiming for Top 10.   
 Q.  What for you would be a good season for you?  Like a result or -- I don't know how you measure it.  You know what I mean?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I think the main thing for me right now is to keep improving and working on the things that I am working on.  And yeah, for my game to get better and better, because I feel like there's still so many things I can do better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT