HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 31, 2018
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KONTAVEIT/J. Goerges   
6-2, 4-6, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  How do you feel about that performance today?  What was the key, especially in the third set?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, it was definitely a big improvement from yesterday.  It was a very close match.   
I think in the third set I was just trying to stay tough.  It was close all along.   
So, you know, in the end, it was about holding the serve and being consistent on the serve.  I think I managed to do that well in the third.   
 Q.  Do you feel that your match yesterday helped you to today to just kind of get a sense of the court, the balls, kind of how the conditions are out there?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, I think it definitely helps if you have a match under your belt, sort of get used to everything that you said.  I think it gave me an advantage today.   
 Q.  With today's win, you're still in the tournament in terms of potentially qualifying, but you're not going to play until the semifinals.  How weird is that to just kind of sit and wait to see how everything else plays out?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, it's definitely different.  Yeah, I guess it's something that I'm not really used to.  But it is what it is and we'll see about tomorrow.   
 Q.  What are you doing to kill time here in Zhuhai?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Well, I think I've been playing sort of middle of the day for two days now.  So after the match, I've had a few things to do like press or things like that.  So, I don't know, time sort of flies.   
You have dinner here and you get back to the hotel.  It's about 8:00.  I've just read a book and just sort of hung out in my room.   
 Q.  We've seen your increasing stronger performance lately and your ranking has been climbing up.  But the issue probably during the tournaments in the future, especially for the tournaments at the mid and lower level, you will be a stronger seeded player and you would face a very strong challenge coming from players with lower ranking.  That would be a change.  How do you deal with that?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Well, yeah, I've increased my ranking a little bit from last year and I might get seeded at some tournaments.  We'll see.   
It's difficult to answer that question.  I guess higher seeded players maybe feel the obligations to win, but I think I'm just trying to think about the process and how I want to improve and not focus on the ranking that I've currently got.   
 Q.  What's your plan for the winter training and do you have any arrangements before the next season, any plans before the next season?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Well, I'm going to go on a holiday as I mentioned yesterday.  I'm not sure where.  I guess I'll find that out in a few days.   
In the offseason, I'm most likely going to train in Thailand.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT