HENGQIN LIFE WTA ELITE TROPHY ZHUHAI
October 30, 2018
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
E. MERTENS/A. Kontaveit   
6-3, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Can you talk about the match first and your performance?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, the match started quite all right.  I thought the level until about 3-All was pretty descent.  But I was struggling with my serve, I think.  She took advantage of my second serves, and I was feeling a little bit flat.  And that sums the match up.   
 Q.  How are you finding the courts playing here this week?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I mean, they're really good courts.  I think they suit Elise maybe a bit better than they suit me.  They're quite bouncy.  I mean, I don't dislike them, but they are quite bouncy.   
 Q.  I don't know how familiar you are with round robin formats in tennis.  What's it like and are you familiar with being right back on court pretty soon after taking a loss in the same tournament?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I haven't played round robin on the WTA level ever, so it's kind of new.  I mean, today was not great for me, but it's good that I get another opportunity tomorrow.   
 Q.  Can you talk about yesterday, the players party.  Your outfit was quite impressive.  Besides yourself, whose dress do you think was most beautiful?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: That's difficult to say.  The party itself was really nice and everything looked really beautiful and the music was good.  It was a really nice players party.   
Thank you about the outfit comment.   
I'm not sure who I should pick.  I thought everyone looked pretty dressed up and really glam, and had their hair done.  So I think everyone looked good.   
 Q.  Your season is nearly done and everybody is probably looking towards vacation planning at the moment.  Do you have plans sorted out for the offseason?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I haven't actually booked a holiday yet, but I think, as every other year, I've stayed at home and sort of enjoyed being at home.  Then I think this year I will go somewhere on holiday.  But I haven't booked anywhere yet, so I can't tell you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT