WUHAN OPEN
September 27, 2018
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
A. KONTAVEIT/K. Siniakova   
6-4, 6-4   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Talk through the match.  A straight-set match, but an incredibly tough one.  What do you think made the difference there?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: It was definitely a really tough match.  Yeah, it's tough to say.  I was really fighting for every point.  Yeah, I think I came up with some really good shots in these really important moments.  Maybe that's what made the difference.   
 Q.  Against a player like that, how did you find the balance?  You're going to find your openings, be able to be aggressive, but she can counter-punch, you have to defend a little bit.  How did you find balance?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, it's always tough playing her.  She's quite unpredictable, so it's always difficult to sort of find your rhythm, yeah, do your thing.  I was just trying to stay in there every point, take my chances when I could.  Yeah, just try and be a bit more consistent.   
 Q.  Seeing you win tons of matches on clay, but obviously a very big semifinal on hard courts for you.  What do you think has been the difference in terms of being able to translate that level onto the hard courts?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I think I've been playing some good tennis.  Yeah, I lost some really close battles on the hard courts this year.  Yeah, I'm really happy that I've managed to turn some around and win some matches.  That's definitely given me some confidence.   
Yeah, I'm really, really happy to do well on a hard court, as well.   
 Q.  Do you have to adjust your game that much to get the best of it on hard courts?  In other words, is it just a fluke that all of your best results, most of them, have come on clay, so you're a clay court player-ish, then you have to transition onto hard court?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Maybe this year.  But then last year I did really well on grass.  I've done well on hard courts previously.   
I wouldn't say I'm, like, only a clay court player or something.  But it is a little bit different.  I mean, it's different for everyone.  I think there's some adapting, but not too much.   
 Q.  Is the adapting mostly a footwork thing or a tactical thing?  What is it for you?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: A bit of both.  I mean, the moving on clay is definitely different than on a hard court.  The sliding and everything on the clay.  Yeah, also maybe you don't have as much time, got to be more aggressive.   
 Q.  How are things going with Nigel?  Presumably pretty well given this result.  How have you, found now that you've had a few more weeks to work with him, how have you found that partnership going?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, I think it's going really well.  I'm really happy with it.  Yeah, I think I'm starting to understand him better and better every week.  I'm really, really pleased with the way things are going.   
 Q.  What has been the biggest message that you've been consistently receiving from him since you started working with him?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: There's a few things (smiling).  What do I point out?  There's quite a few things.   
He's quite, you know, strict with those specific things.  Some are to do with footwork, some are to do with positioning, some are to do with how I start the points, all those different things.  Yeah, there's quite a few things.   
 Q.  Wang Qiang, what do you expect for that match?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: She's definitely playing really well.  She won a tournament last year.  She's played great tennis this week.  It's definitely going to be really tough.  She's going to have the home crowd supporting her.   
But I'm going to fight like I did today, try my best, and we'll see what happens.   
 Q.  What does it mean to you to make a Premier 5 semifinal here in Wuhan?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, it definitely feels great.  It's not like I've played a lot of semifinals, so of course it's a bit special.  Definitely towards the end of the year, to do well, it's definitely great.  I'm really happy with the way I've been playing throughout the year.  I'm happy the results are showing.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT