QATAR TOTAL OPEN
March 3, 2021
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. KONTAVEIT/A. Kerber
 6-1, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. This is twice in a row now you're, like, first on and first off in under an hour.  Are you surprised with how easily it's gone for you in the first two rounds?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   I don't think you really think about or expect if it's gonna be a fast match or a long match, you know.  But I feel like I'm playing good tennis.
 Yeah, I was happy with the way I played today and happy with the way I served out the match, as well.
 Q. Is there something that you can pinpoint to in either of your victories, either the other day against Jen Brady or today against Angelique, as to why you're winning?  Also, I notice you're off to a very good start this season, just like you were last year.
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   Yeah, I think I have put in good work in the offseason, and I feel like I have been playing confidently and positively this week.  I think, you know, it's been working out these two matches.
 Q. Two victories in the bag at the start of a tournament and pretty comfortable.  In your previous tournaments or even last year, has that helped you go deeper in the tournament?  Or you think that you have to play it match by match?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   Yeah, I think I definitely have to take it match by match.  I feel confident with the way I have been playing, and of course I want to do well and every time I step in the court I want to win.
 It's gonna have to be just taking it match by match.  After I finish, I didn't even know who I was playing in the next round.  Now I know, obviously.  Yeah, I just take it one by one and, yeah, do my best each match.
 Q. Is the prospect of facing tougher opponents, does it put that little bit of pressure on you, or do you try and keep that out of your mind, try and keep out the reputation of your opponents who are coming up in the next round?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   Well, I think the tournament is very strong, so I don't feel like there is any, I mean, much pressure on me at all.  I can just enjoy being out here and playing good tennis.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT