INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 18, 2017
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KONTAVEIT/M. Lucic-Baroni
6-1, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Another good win.  6-1, 6-1.  What do you think about the match?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I thought I played really great.  I managed to do all the right things and stay with her.  That was the plan.  I thought I did really well.
Q. You're on to quarterfinal in your first appearance here.  How does that feel?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, of course it feels great.  Yeah, first time, like you said, in the quarterfinals in such a big event.
It's really exciting.
Q. You said your main goal was actually to reach top 70.  You will now be in the top 50.  Isn't it time to change your goals and raise them?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I didn't say it was my main goal.  I said it was just this small goal I had already achieved.
But, yeah, of course I have made some new goals, and, you know, looking forward to next matches.
Q. What's your next new goal?  You're talking about small goals?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Well...(smiling).
Q. You don't want to tell me?  You don't want to jinx it?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, I a little bit.  I'm just really trying to take it match by match and setting these really small goals and taking it how it goes.
Q. So that's it?  Just not a matter of luck, you not telling me right now, or you don't actually know?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: No, no.  I have these things in my head thought out, of course.  You know, we always plan things.  Of course you have goals and dreams.
But I just try to take it really match by match and focus on every tournament and all these matches.  It's all really new to me and all still gaining a lot of experience and getting used to all of these things.
That's the main focus.
Q. Do you like to be on the center of attention, or do you prefer to, you know, play in the shadow?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, I definitely like to be in the center of attention, yeah (smiling).
Q. I don't know if you watch Modern Family.  One of the most famous quotes of that TV series is Phil Dunphy saying, "The best things in life could happen to you if you only lower your expectations."  Do you think that that sentence could suit you?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I wouldn't say I have lowered my expectations.  It's a good sentence, but...  Yeah.
Q. So you don't have any expectations towards this tournament?  Just thinking match by match?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah.  Just really starting from the qualifying, I took it match by match, like you said, and, yeah, that's all I have been trying to do.
Q. Reading WTA notes, you're still studying in high school?  Is that true?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I finished.  Yep.
Q. You were looking for university options?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I have thought about it.  Not sure yet.
Q. How much do you think the full instruction is important to an athlete or a person in general?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I think it's really individual.  Depends on the person.
Q. How do you manage to combine your personal life and life on tour, instruction and, you know, stuff like that?  Is that difficult?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I think it's something we have all gotten used to, you know, being away all the time and being used to the tour life.  I think it's our life.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT