INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
May 17, 2017
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KONTAVEIT/A. Kerber
6-4, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. I haven't checked, but your first win against No. 1 in the world?  How does that feel?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, it feels great (smiling).  Like you said, my first time beating the No. 1 in the world, so, you know, I'm super excited.
Q. I was wondering if maybe that feels a little bit less exciting since Kerber is not playing like Kerber in the previous months.  Have you thought about that?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Haven't thought about it like that.  It's still really exciting.
Q. I have spoken with Gavrilova yesterday, and she played the quallies like you.  She told me that playing the quallies here, given the fact that seeding is so tough, it's like playing a few matches in Roland Garros and then you play seeded players, obviously the player in your first round, so it's like -- is that really an advantage for you to come from the quallies, or are you feeling a little bit tired?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I think it does feel like an advantage in a way that I have had a few matches.  I feel comfortable on the courts here.  Yeah, I think it's been good.
Q. You actually did pretty good also early in the year in Biel.  Are you starting to feel like you belong to the big spots?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, I think I believe in myself more.  I have more confidence, and I'm feeling really comfortable on the tennis court.
Q. Did you set any goal for yourself maybe this season or a long shot, couple of seasons or something?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I just take it match by match.  I've had my little goals.  I have actually achieved some of my goals for this year.
Q. Which were?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Top 70 was -- I have just had these small goals.  I'm just trying to take it match by match and tournament by tournament.
Q. Is that your biggest memory in your career so far, you know, beating the No. 1 in the world, or do you have another big great memory?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I think this is definitely up there with -- yeah, I think that would beat the previous memories.
Q. I was wondering, how do players develop a feeling with the tournament?  Is that you beat the No. 1 in the world and that's it, or are you feeling a different atmosphere with the fans, the venues, the city?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: As soon as I got here, I was feeling great.  This place is amazing.  I love the courts.  I love the atmosphere here, like you said.  There are so many people watching.  It does feel a little bit special to a player.
Q. At the end of the match, what was your first thought?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Wow, I've done it (smiling).  Yeah, I was just so happy.  I can't remember exactly what I thought, you know.  Yeah.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT