ROGERS CUP
August 5, 2019
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. KONTAVEIT/M. Sharapova
4-6, 6-3, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Phenomenal match tonight and that ninth game of the third set that went on forever seemed like a pretty big one.  Talk through your read on that match, the ups and downs, and also what the difference was in the end, do you think?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, it was really, really close match, and I felt like there was not much in it.  It was point by point.
In the first set, I felt like I had some opportunities and I just didn't use them.  So, yeah, I think I started serving better in the second set and that definitely, definitely helped.  You know, you don't want to be hitting second serves against Maria.
So, yeah, I think in the end it was the fighting.  I mean, it was so close.  And I managed to get that break on the ninth game and, yeah, I felt confident serving it out.
So, yeah, I think that sums it up well.
Q. Toronto has the largest Estonian population in the world outside of Estonia.  Do you happen to have friends or family that were leading the cheering section tonight?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I don't think I had any family, not that I knew of, anyway.  (Laughing.)
But I did hear that there was the biggest population outside Estonia of Estonians here, so I was excited about it.
Q. It was a very intense match, especially in the final set and everything.  How were you handling that occasion?  Were there moments where it almost got too big?  Did it actually help you zone in a little bit more?  Just it seemed like it was a different level of focus and intensity tonight from both of you.
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, I think in the end I was just trying to take it point by point and not think about the score.  And I felt quite free and I was really enjoying myself out there.
The crowd support was insane in the third set, so I was really actually enjoying myself out there today.
Q. This is your first tournament since Wimbledon, so just want to know how did you spend your time off and how did you prepare for the hard courts?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I had a little time off and had a little holiday to, you know, refresh the mind.  And then I started doing the work again and my coach came to Estonia and I was doing my training there.
Q. And you have Venus or Carla next in the second round.  It doesn't necessarily get easier.  Two very good players.
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, it will be tough either way.  I've played them both.  They have very different game styles.
So, yeah, you know, we'll see what happens tomorrow when they're playing, and I think we can talk about the next match when they're finished, when they're finished playing each other.
Q. Just in general the atmosphere tonight was electric.  I think both of you contributed to that.  But what was the feeling out there on center stage to feel that atmosphere and how much did you feel like you were feeding off just the reaction of the crowd in general in the third set?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Yeah, I think in the beginning of the match they were definitely, you know, more for Maria.  But I felt like it sort of changed in the third set and it was getting really, really close.
And, you know, I felt a lot of support and definitely gave me a lot of energy in the third set.
Q. She's obviously known as being a very intense competitor, very focused competitor.  When you're out there playing her, do you feel like you need to match that, like, you know that you need to up your intensity and focus as well, and did you feel like you did that tonight?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I was trying to just focus more on myself.  And I also need to be quite intense and focused to be playing my best tennis.  So, yeah, I think I managed to do that tonight.
Q. You're one of some phenomenal Baltic tennis players.  To what degree did Jelena Ostapenko's win at the French Open inspire you?
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I think the Baltic countries, you know, we're still Latvia and Estonia.  We're different countries.
Of course I was really happy for her and, yeah, it showed that you can do anything, come from anywhere, and win a big slam.
But, yeah, I'm just sort of doing my own thing and trying to improve day by day and, you know, not think too much about what the others are doing.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT