INTERNAZIONALI BNL D'ITALIA
September 15, 2020
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  A. KONTAVEIT/C. Garcia
 6-3, 7-6
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. Can you just give us your thoughts on that match and what the difference was today.
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   You know, I thought it was a very close match.  You know, even in the first set until she lost her serve I felt like it was very close.  We both served well and it was -- you know, we held serve well and were playing good.
 Yeah, I think I served a little bit more consistent maybe.  You know, she had a couple double faults in the first set and in the second set.  Yeah, I served for the match twice in the second set and couldn't make any first serves, so she really took initiative well.
 I managed to actually get my serve back in the tiebreak and play a good tiebreak.
 Q. How have you found the transition from hard court to clay?  Has Palermo all come back to you, or is there still work to do?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   There is definitely still work to do, but I feel like playing Palermo definitely gave me the confidence of playing on clay and was not that long ago.  So I feel like, you know, I still have that in my body and remember it well.
 I think it's coming back really quickly.  It has been a very quick transition, but I feel like I'm doing all right.
 Q. A quick question about the US Open.  Just in terms of coming out of that event and finishing out obviously a great summer swing, what is your confidence level going into the clay season now?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   Yeah, I mean, I feel really good about my game.  I have had really good wins.
 You know, I lost twice to Naomi, and she ended up winning the US Open.  You know, I feel like I have been playing really well since I first started in Palermo, and I have been consistent in my level, so I'm really happy about that.
 Q. I'd like to know what is the difference for you between the three different, let's say, bubbles where you have been:  Palermo, then New York, and now Rome?  If you can compare them?  Of course one was a small tournament, one extra big, this one in the middle.  How do you see the difference?  How do you react?  Is it one more difficult than the other?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   Yeah, I mean, of course it's a little bit different.  I think in U.S. it was very strict.  And here, also, we are not allowed to go out.  I think in Palermo, I never left or went anywhere, but I think it was a little bit looser with the rules.
 It's not easy to stay in your hotel room and not be able to go somewhere, but I think it's something, a situation we just have to deal with right now.  You know, it's definitely not getting any easier, but this is the situation (smiling).
 It's difficult to compare.  They are all different hotels, different tournaments.  The sites are very different, as well.  Of course there is a lot more space at the US Open.
 I think all the tournaments are doing the best that they can.
 Q. In Palermo there was some people, some crowd.  Small one, maybe.  Nothing in New York.  Practically nothing also here in Foro Italico.  Did you have more fun when you were playing Palermo because there were some people clapping, cheering, and so on?  Is it sad to play without the public?  And what do you expect in Paris?  Are you, I don't say afraid, but worried about the fact that there will be maybe 11,000 people around in three different zone areas?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   I mean, crowd gives atmosphere and it gets you fired up, and it's really nice to play in front of a crowd.  Theres no denying that.  I really enjoy playing in front of crowds and big crowds, as well.  So of course we are missing the fans in New York and here.
 But about Paris, I mean, it's difficult to comment because I'm sure the organizers are considering the risks and everything, and they have made this decision.  I mean, it will be nice to have some people watching and, you know, of course they have reduced the people who are allowed to come and everything.  But, you know, you definitely have to be very careful.
 Q. Your father may be like in Palermo and I can talk to him?
 ANETT KONTAVEIT:   If I get to the final maybe (smiling).  He only comes for the finals.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT