AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 29, 2020
Anett Kontaveit
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
S. HALEP/A. Kontaveit   
6-1, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Tough to get your teeth into a match like that when she's playing that way. Talk through how you saw it from your side of the court.  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Well, yeah, Simona played an incredible match. I was trying to do everything. I mean, she was just so strong today. Yeah, couldn't find a weapon. I was trying to be aggressive, but couldn't hit through her.   
So, yeah, it was difficult.   
 Q.  You were trying to get that ball through her. Were you surprised at the number of balls coming back, the number of shots you hit being neutralized by her?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Of course, I knew she's a great player. I was expecting her to be really tough. But maybe, yeah, I mean, it was hard, my shots not being as effective as they would probably against a lot of other players.   
Yeah, I don't know if I was expecting that. I mean, I knew she's incredibly fast. But I was a little bit surprised how aggressive she was playing as well, making me move so much.   
Yeah, I think she was returning great, putting me under pressure all the time. Yeah, she was playing amazing.   
 Q.  In hindsight, could you have done anything different in this match?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: Difficult to say. I mean, I don't think I played a horrible match. I was doing my best in this situation. Of course, I wish I wouldn't have missed some of these balls. But I can't think like that. She did play much better than me today.   
 Q.  Do you think Simona's aggression is a little bit underrated? Even speaks about her movement and stuff like that. Is that a fair statement?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I guess so, yeah. I mean, she was really aggressive today. She put me under a lot of pressure on the baseline, as well. Yeah, I think you're right.   
 Q.  What are your biggest takeaways from this tournament?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I think I can be really proud of myself. I mean, I was out for months and like three months ago I couldn't even jog.   
Being in the quarterfinals for the first time, I'm so happy with that achievement.   
 Q.  How much confidence do you take out of it knowing that right away, after that sort of off-season, you get a result like this? Especially now as we continue on the hard courts, into clay where you're also pretty good, that this level and these sorts of results, can you expect them from yourself at this point?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: It definitely gives me confidence. I do feel like I'm getting better and better, and my game's improving. That's the main thing for me. I think the results will follow if I keep doing the right things.   
 Q.  Schedule-wise going forward, do you at this point have to be concerned at all in terms of the fitness and physicality? Do you want to go home, not play tournaments, or get back on the court and play?  
ANETT KONTAVEIT: I don't have much of a choice because I'm playing Fed Cup at home in just like a week, yeah. I am really looking forward to playing again, getting out there.   
But really excited to go home after a couple months.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT