BREEDERS' CUP WORLD CHAMPIONSHIPS
October 27, 2001
Teddy Beckett
Olivier Peslier
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
TEDDY BECKETT:  Too many times.  
 
TEDDY BECKETT:  The Breeders' Cup is really the world championship.  To win like she did today was just unbelievable, really.  It was such a thrill, a home-bred filly.  Bred by Prince Khalid and the (inaudible) was bred by Prince Khalid, totally home bred.  To destroy that field like she did, superb.   
 
OLIVIER PESLIER:  I'm sure Prince Khalid, I haven't discussed it with him.  He's very low key when it comes to all that sort of thing, but he's a very generous man.   
 
OLIVIER PESLIER:  That would be entirely up to Andre.  I imagine Prince Khalid would want to keep her in training although that still has to be decided.  She stays obviously mile quarter really well, which is great because it increases the options.  She can go for the next year, both in Europe and of course the States.   
 
OLIVIER PESLIER:  Before she just keep going, if I'm in back choose progression, she finish like a million in Ascot and no show.  She's good foot, she just stop well just dropping in and (inaudible) just before like three furlong.  I stay inside.  The filly don't turn well.  The leader don't turn well.  I go in, when I ask her, she just keep going one time and just keep again and just gallop and she never tired or just look and keep going.   
 
 
Q.  Looked like a very smart trip.  I mean, she had room early.  You got her on the hedge and you could stay right on the rail.  When the hole opened, she just shot through.  Did that work out that way or was that your plan?  
 
OLIVIER PESLIER:  The plan after Andre tell me just after, you know, what's happen, you know, after the three furlong, you see what's happen, which horse go.  If you're no good race, you stay and have plenty of place and just keep going and the filly she go straight and she's strong and just gallop and a lot of -- look like a Europe -- a French horse, little bit afraid for the turn because it's very tight compared France, but when I see just before the race before Val Royal look -- I know the French horse is good.  This one, she turn so great and when she start and keep going is, have champion, she won.   
 
Q.  With all the great races you ride in around the world, where does the Breeders' Cup rank?  
 
OLIVIER PESLIER:  The Breeders' Cup for everybody is greatest cup.  When I ride in Japan, the greatest trainer, everybody see the Rider's Cup jacket.  Everybody not a champion.  For everybody in the world, the greatest cup is look like a top one.  
 
TEDDY BECKETT:  Well, the Breeders' Cup is well -- well named.  The Prince Khalid is a true breeder and a lover of the breed.  The Breeders' Cup means a lot.  It means a lot to the farm both -- the farms both in Europe and in Kentucky.  It's certainly been a major goal.  It's a goal of any owner to win a Breeders' Cup, but to breed and owner Breeders' Cup's winner has been really the Holy Grail and I think it means a tremendous amount to everyone involved.   
 
OLIVIER PESLIER:  My victory is so, so great.  I can't imagine I win look like so well.  You know, you fight with the horses I see, got nobody.  The filly she just keep going.  When I see back I see no horses, looks like this way, she look like a tourist.  Banks Hill race and horse's race.   
 
OLIVIER PESLIER:  I think she win the mile, mile and a quarter.  She love filly, maybe if she watch the program, she know which.  
 
TEDDY BECKETT:  Originally we intended to run her in the Ten Furlong Prix de L'Opera on Arc Day, but the going was such heavy rain the going was much too soft for her.  She relishes the fast going.  It was fast when she won the mile Carnation States Ascot.  And it's go fast going.  
 
OLIVIER PESLIER:  In Ascot if you stay the mile, you can run mile and a quarter.  Ascot is very hard trot.  Not hard trot.  When the horse gallop, it just keep going.  You need a good quality and it look like a mile, better if you mile and a quarter.  But last time, Andre concern, team concern the filly.  Too many rain and soft the ground.  
 
TEDDY BECKETT:  She also -- we were really confident she was going to get a mile and a quarter.  Danehill, her sire, has got lots of speed, but she's out of a mare by Kahyasi, who won dare bee.  Solid input, another staying mare.  Slot of speed in the female family.  The stallions have plenty stamina.  She's built, she looks like a stair really.  At least a mile and a quarter.  She's not a compact sort.  Big range.  
 

End of FastScripts...

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT