NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 18, 2016
Gabriel Dean
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We have finalist Gabe Dean of Cornell, 36-1 after his win tonight.  If you want to make a brief opening statement about your match.
GABRIEL DEAN: Tough kid, funky, knew he had some slick stuff, but stayed basic and got to my offense and executed.  Good, solid match all around.  Would have liked to pick up that last takedown, but happy with the win.
Q. Gabe, did you ride any momentum from (Indiscernible) were you paying attention to it at all and what does that do for you?
GABRIEL DEAN: I sat in the stands.  I sat with my family leading up to 57 and then I go down, and (Indiscernible).  Never complained about how he his life it and what he's been given.  So he inspires me ever day and never a day goes by that he doesn't have a smile on his face and he's been through so much.  So awesome.  Happy for him.
Q. Gabe, talk about guys inspiring, your teammates have had some tough things to overcome in this tournament.  Talk about what that's done to inspire you?
GABRIEL DEAN: One of the guys that probably inspires me the most in how he's handled himself is Brian Realbuto, talk about a guy that comes in.  He's hurt his first match.  Has every reason to forfeit out of the tournament.  Straps his leg up after blowing out his knee and tries to wrestle to score team points.  I mean, what more can you say about a guy like that?  What an incredible guy and what an incredible individual.  He really showed his character through this tournament.  I know obviously it wasn't the way he wanted to go but what an hell of a kid.
Q. Gabe, what's different this journey to the finals than the first time around?  I mean, obviously everyone knows you've been a champion here and there is a little bit of a target on you this season.  How did it differ getting through the process?
GABRIEL DEAN: Honestly, I think, for me, last year's tournament took years off my life.  I'm not going to lie.  I think you remember how many close matches I had.  But I think this year perspectivewise changed a lot, and I went from worrying about winning and losing to just having -- enjoying the privilege to be able to compete.
I mean, I talk about this kid a lot, I've been talking about him a lot through this, but a friend of mine, 14 year old diagnosed with leukemia this year, and I think about that kid.  He loved to play sports, football, wrestler from my hometown and he would give anything to put a singlet on and wrestle in anything.  Instead he's sitting in a hospital bed watching everything through a TV, so I don't take -- I try not to take -- just the opportunity to be here and wrestle and be a part of this for granted.
Just being able to compete is such a privilege and that's one of the kids that's been a huge inspiration for me throughout this year.
Q. Gabe, any history with Dudley?  You got Dudley, any history?
GABRIEL DEAN: A lot of history.  We wrestled in grapple at the Garden this year.  We wrestled in round 16 last year in the NCAAs.  My finals of my freshman year we wrestled in Vegas.  So yeah, history.  Big, athletic, strong kid.  He will bring it tomorrow night, so it will be fun.
THE MODERATOR: Congratulations, Gabe Dean, finalist at 184.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT