NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 30, 2010
Mike Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JAMEY HORAN: A few questions for Mike.   
  
  Q. Mike, it seems like all season you guys have had a different goaltender in there. No matter who plays in net tomorrow, does it matter to you guys, or do you not care? What are your thoughts on that?   
 MIKE RICHARDS: We feel comfortable playing in front of whoever. We've proved that all year. We've put our goaltenders in tough situations. Every time that we've done so, they responded. We feel comfortable playing in front of anyone and have confidence in either goaltender.   
  
  Q. Mike, the Bolland line, throughout these Playoffs, has done a good job shutting down the top lines in the other teams. What were they able to do against you guys? How annoying is he to play against?   
 MIKE RICHARDS: He's a good player. I'll give him that. I played against him in Junior. He's a very smart, intelligent hockey player. I thought we had good looks last night. We just didn't score, and did everything but.   
 So I think persistence is something we need to have as a line and not get discouraged by one or two bad bounces and just keep trying.   
  
  Q. Mike, a couple of minutes ago, Danny Briere made the comment saying essentially all we heard was our how great Chicago was, and that we didn't have a chance and that game showed we belong with them. How much respect do you think your team has been given coming into this Series.   
 MIKE RICHARDS: Have we been given?  
  
  Q. By hockey people or fans and others about your ability to win?   
 MIKE RICHARDS: I don't know. I don't think too many people on our team focus on what you guys say. No offense. It's just we go out there and play, and what's written about us in the paper or said about us on TV just kind of brushes off our back. Obviously they got a good team over there. I think you guys said before was probably the favorite coming in here.   
 We have a good team. We're confident in our team. We know we can play with these guys. We just have to execute better and play better.   
  
  Q. Obviously goaltenders get pulled for various reasons during games. What was the message last night that your coach was sending to your team when Michael did get pulled?   
 MIKE RICHARDS: I'm not sure. I think it's more of a situation where you're trying to rally everyone around a guy that's played his heart out for us, a guy that's been put in this tough situation, and all he's done is strive for us and play well and battle for us. And to see him get pulled, I think, was just a message of we have to start helping out and start playing. We're kind of leaving this guy out to dry who has been battling for us every game since he's been back.   
  
  Q. Mike, one of the many debates there with Pronger was whether you guys played Flyer hockey last night, physical hockey as evidenced by no penalties. Can you play more physical? And did you think it was Flyer hockey last night?   
 MIKE RICHARDS: I didn't think we played unphysical. I think we were tentative in some of the things that we were doing. I don't think not taking penalties is a reflection of that. I think most of the penalties being called last night were stick infractions. One late hit. I thought we played well inside the rules. Obviously we can be physical. More physical and be better. But you don't want to put yourself out of position with a team that moves the puck very well.   
 JAMEY HORAN: Thanks, Mike.   
 MIKE RICHARDS: No problem.   
 JAMEY HORAN: That will conclude the podium for today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT