NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CANADIENS v FLYERS
May 24, 2010
Mike Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Mike, sort of similar to what was just asked of Claude, was there a point in March, early March and before you guys began to put it together, where you went home after some of these practices and wondered whether the team was ever going to get back on the right path again?   
 MIKE RICHARDS: I mean, there's always thoughts that run through your head, especially when things aren't going well. It's easy to kind of step away from things and maybe have your head wander a little bit. But, I think in March, the mindset was more or less if we can just make it there, we'll see what happens then. This team steps up in big games all the time. I think you can just look at how we play against our division rivalries where you have that bitter taste in your mouth, it's a big game, and we always seem to step up well. I'm not sure what the reasoning for the roller coaster that we usually go on throughout the regular season. But I think in March it was just a mindset if we just make it there, we'll see what happens. Luckily we did. We were pretty close to missing it and letting it slip away; but once we got in, it was why not us. We're playing well now. We can play well. We've proven we can play well. Especially against New Jersey where I think we had success all year. I mean, we had confidence going in there. I think if we played any other team where maybe we didn't do so well against this year, like Buffalo or Washington, it might not have been that same confidence. But it set up well; we played a team that we had success against, and we had some confidence.   
  
  Q. Over the course of the past two, three years every Series that you've won has been on the road. I mean, this year you've obviously closed out New Jersey and Boston on the road. With that being said, how nice would it be to win a Series here, have guys instead of people yelling at you and throwing things at you, to have them celebrate an accomplishment?   
 MIKE RICHARDS: Yeah, it would be nice. The fans here deserve it for sticking behind us through the whirlwind of a season that we just had. It would be nice to play well enough tonight to wrap it up and get that last win to move on, obviously. Montreal's not a place that I think that we want to go back to, but at the same time we know we have to play extremely well to do so and have a start like we did last game. 6   
  
  Q. You obviously see it, for home games, the way the fans are, but have you gotten a sense at all about the way the city is rallying behind you? Maybe people that aren't even hockey fans are starting to pay attention to what you guys are on the edge of doing here?   
 MIKE RICHARDS: I think so. That comes with winning. Just walking down the street in an old city, different people come up to you wouldn't expect was a hockey fan, or sitting in a restaurant and not paying for a whole lot of meals right now. But it's nice to see the support by the city. It's nice to see that everyone's behind you, the words of motivation and wishing you good luck. It's just nice to have, obviously, the support of the city, especially like Philadelphia where they're not shy about voicing their opinion. It's nice to see it's nice to have that support.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT