NHL EASTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: CANADIENS v FLYERS
May 17, 2010
Mike Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What was your reaction this morning when you saw Jeff out there skating?  
 MIKE RICHARDS: I don't know. I didn't see him skating. I heard he skated. Obviously, a step forward. I haven't talked to him yet, so I don't know what his plans are or anything.  
  
  Q. Is it hard not to get excited about that or do you feel you can't get excited because you don't know?  
 MIKE RICHARDS: I don't know anything honestly. I haven't even talked to him. He was upstairs in the gym when I got here, so.  
  
  Q. Usually when a team wins 6-0, especially on a playoff game, a team is happy with the way they played. But everyone we talked to last night including yourself, was not satisfied with the game. What do you think that says about this team and your desire here?  
 MIKE RICHARDS: Well, we strive for excellence. We try to get better every day. Last night we didn't play our best game. We were opportunistic with our chances. Our power play and moving the puck around well, but overall I thought we lacked some energy. But a win's a win at this time of the year, and we've got to move forward and look forward to tomorrow night.  
  
  Q. You've had highs and lows, you know, especially getting down 3-0. Then a big Game 7, emotionally, and you come out and win this game like you did. Why do you think this team has gotten better at handling the highs and lows and staying on even keel?  
 MIKE RICHARDS: I think because of the adversity that we went through throughout the year together. We're a very tight-knit group. We've gone through a lot together. You can tell just hanging around the dressing room and being around us, we enjoy each other's company. We play well together, obviously, out on the ice.  
 I think throughout the year, since Lavie's got here, we've gotten better and better as the months have gone on. We're still getting better. We're still learning some of the things that he wants us to do, and we're getting better for it.  
  
  Q. It's usually catastrophic when you lose your goaltender in the middle of the Playoffs. Can you just talk about the advantage of having Leighton in there and being able to step in and doing what he's done?  
 MIKE RICHARDS: Yeah, I mean all year it's kind of just been one thing after another, no matter what's happened with injuries and whether it's Jeff or Lappy or you know Simon earlier in the year. And Razor. Our goaltender obviously has been different people stepping up. We pride ourselves on the depth of this hockey team and the goaltending position is no different.  
 Bouch stepped in and played extremely well. Leights - we picked him up and he played extremely well. We have full confidence in him in goalie. He's played well for us when he was in net before his injury, and he's playing well for us now.  
  
  Q. When you say you're close to understanding fully what Peter wants and the things Peter wants to play, how close do you think you guys are? And how much more does this team have improvement wise to what Peter wants you to be?  
 MIKE RICHARDS: I'm not sure. I still think we're getting better. I still think we're sometimes second guessing ourselves on the ice and things that we're looking at tape every day to improve in what we need to do better. As long as we keep getting better and keep getting the chance to keep playing, I mean, I think you're just going to keep getting better until you stop. Thank you.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT