NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 10, 2012
Mike Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Mike Richards.   
   
 Q.   Drew Doughty was pretty adamant about the biggest stage of your life, Game4, family, a lot going on.   He thought maybe the team had a tough time not getting distracted by the greatest moments of your lives potentially.   Can you discuss trying to juggle everything and win.   
MIKE RICHARDS:   Well, it's tough.   You get a lot of texts and calls.   People want to come and be a part of it.   At the same time it's something you have to handle as a professional, limit distractions, focus on the game.  
   
 Q.   On the other side of that, how much fun are you having with this entire challenge?  
MIKE RICHARDS:   I wish it was over, but...   
It's fun.   The process is fun.   Everyone was nervous for Game4.   Now we're back to having fun again like we were through the whole playoffs and the season.   We were nervous before.   I thought we played a pretty good game last night, but didn't get the result that we wanted.   
We're going to do the same thing we've done all year, try to get better every game.  
   
 Q.   Do you think you were putting the cart in front of the horse a bit?  
MIKE RICHARDS:   I don't know what that means.  
   
 Q.   Thinking about the outcome, what was to come too much.   
MIKE RICHARDS:   Maybe.   Cart before the horse (laughter)?     
It's something that you have to handle.   Something you have to go through.   Obviously we would have liked to have won one of the last few games, but we're in a situation where we can still be better.   We have to be better to beat their team because it seems like they're getting better, too.   We just have to bring our best game tomorrow night.  
   
 Q.   Beginning of the series there's been a lot of talk about Quick.   Lately more talk about Martin Brodeur.   You had some great chances.   Discuss beating a guy who has quite a history in the game.   
MIKE RICHARDS:   He seems to be seeing a lot of pucks.   That's our fault as forwards not getting to the net as much, shooting from a distance.   There's things you can do better.   We're going to look at that today, try to get better tomorrow.   
We have to make his life more difficult without taking penalties.   There's a fine line there we have to walk with not getting in his way, not putting ourselves in positions where Marty can draw that penalty with what he does.   
   
 Q.   It's only human nature that some doubt would start to creep in a little bit.   How do you deal with that?  
MIKE RICHARDS:   Well, I don't think so.   We're a confident bunch.   We obviously wouldn't be here if we didn't have the confidence.   It's just a matter of playing hockey and getting better.   
We set out a goal at the beginning of the year to get better every game.   We're still playing, so we're still hoping to get better.  
   
 Q.   You knew how hard it was going to be.   
MIKE RICHARDS:   It's the Stanley Cup Finals.   If it was easy, everybody would have the Cup.   It's not easy.   It's one of the toughest things you're going to have to go through.   At the same time, if you work for it, it's going to be rewarding.  
   
 Q.   Is there more pressure now?  
MIKE RICHARDS:   I think the only pressure you have is the pressure that's in the dressing room, looking at the guy beside you, see how hard he's worked.   It's something you want to do for him, not for everybody else that's trying to put the pressure on you.   
We put a lot of pressure on each other as players.   We expect the best of each other.   I'd rather have the guy beside me expect the best than going out there thinking I'm going to be average.   
There's a lot of pressure we put on ourselves, but we don't get a lot of pressure from outside.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT