NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 5, 2012
Mike Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Mike Richards. 

Q.   Mike, when you were in Philly, you had that monster of Pittsburgh, then Washington.   Looked like it might have been tough for your group to win.   Now you're in a situation where you're very close.   How does it feel for you and Jeff in that regard? 
MIKE RICHARDS:   The position we're in, we've obviously worked hard for.   It's exciting.   It's exciting for everybody to get this opportunity.   We know we have a lot of work left.   It's something we have to try to embrace, not be nervous, but try to enjoy.

Q.   Three teams came back from 3‑0.   Can you take us through what the Flyers were able to do, to be down but not out, make a comeback like that?
MIKE RICHARDS:   I don't know.   We just played. 

Q.   Is it because you went through the Philadelphia series, does it mean a little bit more going into tomorrow's game with a chance to win it this time?
MIKE RICHARDS:   I don't think it means anything more.   I don't think it can mean anything more.   It was a position that you dream about since you're young.   Like I said, it's a situation where I think you have to try to enjoy.   You're probably going to be a little bit nervous at the same time.   You just have to enjoy the process. 
We know how tough of a game it's going to be, what's ahead of us.   At the same time we have to be ready for it and not make mistakes just because we're nervous. 

Q.   You and Jeff talk at all about going into tomorrow, making sure you win it this time?
MIKE RICHARDS:   We haven't been very good in these situations.   We're 1‑2 when we're up in this situation.   It's something we have to improve on obviously.   We still know that we can play better and be better.   We're going to have to be because they're going to bring it all.

Q.   Has Stevens changed at all through the years?
MIKE RICHARDS:   No, pretty much the same guy. 

Q.   When teams have success, they're particularly rated.   Do you think this experience has helped him, be a good head coach?
MIKE RICHARDS:   He was a great head coach, I liked him.   He's a great assistant coach, very smart hockey guy.   I'm sure if there's an opportunity out there, he could be a good fit for a lot of teams. 

Q.   People are running out of things to ask about Jonathan Quick.   The latest I've come up with, was there a defining moment where you went, This guy is ready?
MIKE RICHARDS:   I think training camp for me, I didn't get to see him very often.   I remember he had an unbelievable game against us last year in Philly.   Still not knowing much about him coming in this year.   Playing against him in training camp, shooting on him every day, you're amazed at first.   The saves he makes, you see it on TV, those are amazing.   It's tough to be amazed anymore.

Q.   Has this been him all year long and we're just making a bigger deal because it's the playoffs?   Is it the same player?
MIKE RICHARDS:   You guys seem to put him under the microscope a little bit more during the playoffs.   He's been our most consistent player all year.   Really the big reason why we made the playoffs is because he was so consistent, played the same way every night. 

Q.   How would you describe the personality of this team?
MIKE RICHARDS:   I don't know.   It's an extremely tight‑knit group.   When I got here, the comfort level was a pretty easy transition with everybody being so tight.   You just step in.   We come to the rink every day, we have fun being here, enjoy each other's company.   I think you guys being around us can sense that, the demeanor of the team, how loose we are, how much we enjoy being at the rink.

Q.   (No microphone.)
MIKE RICHARDS:   There's a couple street hockey places right by our house.   I think right up the street, our family took care of a community club with a couple other families.   I remember just flooding the rink with my dad, some buddies, waiting for it to freeze, then going out there.

Q.   What was the name of it?
MIKE RICHARDS:   Evergreen Community Club.

Q.   Who were you playing?
MIKE RICHARDS:   I don't think you have teams when you play. 

Q.   Were you a player, though?
MIKE RICHARDS:   Just played.   There was no real player.   I mean, I watched everything.   You always dreamed about it.   I don't ever remember being one team or one player.   When you're a kid, you just enjoy that kind of a feeling of just doing it, having fun with it. 
Jeff said to me last night it's surreal we have this opportunity right now. 

Q.   (Question regarding travel.) 
MIKE RICHARDS:   I don't like flying.   It would be nice not to have to hop on another plane.   It's going to be a tough game.   By no means is it going to be easy.   We have to expect their best.   We have to improve in some areas, hopefully get better tomorrow. 

Q.   What about Drew Doughty's game?
MIKE RICHARDS:   He's steady.   He's smart on the ice, reads the play.   Doesn't seem to make very many mistakes.   If he does, it's usually from effort, the kind of mistakes you live with.   He works hard.   But just the sense of calmness he has on the ice, he seems to slow the game down.   Pretty amazing to watch.

Q.   Does he remind you of any particular defensemen you've played against?
MIKE RICHARDS:   Not really.   He's a unique player.   He's just so smart, it's unbelievable to watch him.   The poise he has with the puck at the age of 22 is pretty amazing.

Q.   Did you know how good Jonathan was?
MIKE RICHARDS:   No.   We just kind of went over that.   Didn't really see him.   But I was impressed.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT