NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 3, 2012
Mike Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Mike Richards. 

Q.   (Question regarding the trade from Philly.) 
MIKE RICHARDS:   Nobody ever likes being traded.   I think you take that personally a little bit.   I think that was one of the points where you realize that it's business, you get by it. 
He was professional about it.   He went there, played hard.   I think he was more pressured with the injuries he had early on.   That probably didn't help things out too much at all. 
We were both excited when we first came here.   He was out here I think early on.   We went for lunch, walked around.   How much he liked it out here.   Funny how things work out.   I think within a month or two, he was living at my house. 
It was a whirlwind, exciting.   He definitely helped our team out.

Q.   What was your perception of LosAngeles and the Kings before you got here?
MIKE RICHARDS:   I didn't know too much about it.   We didn't play out here too often being out in the east.   Didn't really know what to expect, to be honest with you. 
The fans here have been unbelievable, not only in the playoff run, how loud it is in the Staples Center when we do do well.   It's a pleasant surprise because I didn't have a lot of expectations, but just not sure what to expect here. 

Q.   Drew Doughty, he was a lifelong Kings fan.   Now a chance to go full circle.   What has he been like in regards to this team?
MIKE RICHARDS:   He's been unbelievable for us.   This is the best I've ever seen him play.   Regular season, playing with him at the Olympics is I think the best I've seen him play.   That demeanor he has, enjoy every day being at the rink.   You can tell just how he carries himself.   He always seems to have a good day, no matter what's going on. 
I think when you have a guy like that, especially a superstar on your team, it helps out, helps relax everybody.   Really makes coming to the rink enjoyable when he's around.

Q.   Jeff talked about the memory of watching another celebrating a Stanley Cup, that it is motivation. 
MIKE RICHARDS:   It is motivation.   That's probably one of the worst feelings I've had in hockey, in my hockey career.   That was the worst I felt on the ice.   It's not a pleasant sight.   If you can't get motivated by something like that, you probably don't want to be on our team.   That was a tough time.   I still think about that and what could have been. 
But, like Jeff said, it's something that drives you, something that pushes you a little bit more on the ice, not to have that feeling again.

Q.   Did you sense the naysayers got him down at all?   Some people questioned his performance, the trade. 
MIKE RICHARDS:   He's a guy that has confidence, and you can see that confidence on the ice.   Like I said, when you get traded, you almost take that personally, as a slap in the face.   Nobody likes being traded. 
Everything happens for a reason.   If there's doubters, you want to prove them wrong.   I think that's the nature of being a hockey player. 

Q.   You have been so perfect on the road.   Talk about being here, home. 
MIKE RICHARDS:   That's still far away.   We know the Devils are going to improve, and we have to improve.   That was the goal and mindset right from day one in training camp, was to get better every game.   We have to do that and carry the energy that's going to be in Staples Center.   It's probably one of the loudest rinks I've ever played in. 
I think everybody here is excited.   Even though we got in late last night, you could feel the energy around the building, the dressing room.   Tomorrow is going to be no different. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT