NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 18, 2012
Mike Richards
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Mike Richards.   
   
 Q.   About Dwight King, you played with him a bit.   What are your thoughts on him?  
MIKE RICHARDS:   He's a big guy that's hard to move off the puck.   You got stadium skill with that.   He protects the puck so well.   A lot of confidence and poise with the puck.   He protects it well.   Isn't shy to take it to the net or make plays when he gets the opportunity to.   
   
 Q.   Dave Tippett in his postgame press conference talked about the diving and embellishment becoming an issue in the series.   What do you think when you hear an opposing coach say something like that?  
MIKE RICHARDS:   I mean, I'm not sure.   It's fast out there.   It's intense.   I don't see it.   If it's there, it's not for me to point out.   I mean, I don't see it as a player on the ice.   Things happen quick out there.   It's hard to pinpoint anything that would happen because you never know what actually did.  
   
 Q.   Is it hard not to take that as an accusation personally?  
MIKE RICHARDS:   Oh, I mean, I don't have to take it as anything.   He's entitled to his opinion.   They have the best of the best refs here, as well as the teams.   They know what is an embellishment and what's not.   I thought they've called a pretty good game.   
I think in playoff series, when one team has more power plays, the other team's not so happy.   We just have to play our game.   We can't worry about what's said, what's not said, officiating, what's called, what's not called.   We have to play our game and whatever happens, roll with it.  
   
 Q.   If someone told you before the playoffs you would have been up 3‑0 three straight series, what would have been your reaction to that?  
MIKE RICHARDS:   I probably would have smiled.   But it's a situation that we're in that we have to embrace, still look to get better and improve.   By no means is it going to be easy on Sunday.   We have to approach this game like we have every other game and try to get better and try to improve.   Hopefully the chips fall where they may.   
   
 Q.   Thoughts on what it's going to be like around the center this weekend.   
MIKE RICHARDS:   It's going to be crazy down there.   I mean, in the building and outside the building, it's going to be pretty wild.   Last night was pretty intense and loud.   I'm looking forward to that again.   
   
 Q.   Meeting Kobe, did you ever text him and exchange messages with him?  
MIKE RICHARDS:   No.   That was a phoney exchange.   I think his phone number was 555‑5555 (laughter).   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT