BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 23, 2019
Yu Liu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Solo leader at the Bank of Hope Founders Cup; 19-under par.  Yu, how were you able to stay so patient all day today.  
YU LIU: Oh, yeah, I didn't started off very great, especially having a pretty big time pairing with Sung Hyun, the world No. 1.   
So I was just trying to get myself mentally prepared for the round and just play my own game.  She's just a player that I've been looking up to a lot.  I had a couple experiences playing with her but I did really bad the previous few.   
Today I was just controlling my emotions and staying in my own game.   
 Q.  Were you pleased with maybe how easy that was for you today?  
YU LIU: Yeah, I think I my caddie, having a new caddie on the bag helped.  He was very positive, very patient as well, and helped me keep very calm on the course.   
 Q.  I believe you eagled the Aon Risk Reward Hole today, No. 15.  Tell me about that hole.  
YU LIU: Yeah, well, they moved the tee up today and the pin is on the front right, so I knew it's pretty much a birdie hole.  You would lose a shot if you don't birdie that hole.   
So I just tried to keep it on the fairway and ended up pretty good drive.  Had about 190 to the pin and hit my 5-iron to about 20 feet.  It was really good.   
 Q.  You've won on the Symetra Tour.  How does that experience help you tomorrow?  
YU LIU: Yeah, I would say winning on any level would help because golf is just a sport.  No matter what kind of level you're playing in, you just have to stay in your own game and be patient.   
 Q.  Do you think playing in the last group will serve you well for playing in the last group again on Sunday?  
YU LIU: Definitely for sure.  I'm not very comfortable and not very used to playing in the last group.  I've had one -- I've had two experiences before and I didn't do very well.   
Today was definitely turnaround for me.   
 Q.  I wanted to ask about Shanshan Feng and what she means to you and to Chinese golf.  You're kind of following in her footsteps tomorrow.  Have you let yourself think about that?  What does she mean to you?  
YU LIU: Oh, yeah.  She's amazing player and greatest role model for all the girls and golfers from China.  I mean, her achievement is just so, so far up there that I haven't really think about it.  Definitely trying to follow her footsteps.   
 Q.  What would a win here tomorrow in front of the Founders of the LPGA mean to you?  
YU LIU: Oh, it would really mean so much.  Without the Founders there would be in me.  I wouldn't know what I'm doing now.  Playing golf for a living is definitely not something that I take for granted.  I really appreciate what the Founders done for us.   
Yeah, I'm very grateful for that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT