BANK OF HOPE FOUNDERS CUP
March 22, 2019
Yu Liu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Bank of Hope Founders Cup Yu Liu with the round of the day so far on Friday.  What was working so well with your 8-under-par round?  
YU LIU: Yeah, just everything kind of clicked all together.  I don't expect this to happen every day.  When a day like this come, I just am glad I was able to take advantage of it.   
 Q.  What part of your game was clicking today?  
YU LIU: So we started off the first tee time.  It was pretty chilly in the morning so my shots weren't coming all together.  My putting definitely helped a lot out there on the front nine.   
On the back nine the weather kind of warmed up a lot more, so I was just hitting it pretty close, all those short and mid-range putts.   
 Q.  Yesterday afternoon the winds picked up a little bit.  How did the course play differently this morning?  
YU LIU: Yeah, definitely being the first off the greatest advantage is pure greens and calm conditions.  I'm just glad I was able to take advantage.   
 Q.  This is your second full year on the LPGA.  How much more comfortable are you out here this year?  
YU LIU: Oh, yeah, definitely for sure.  And being to play in the Asian swing events early in the year helped, so just getting more experience and feeling more comfortable I think definitely helped.   
 Q.  I don't know if you've looked at the leaderboard, but a fellow Duke player, Celine, is up there.  Have you been paying attention to where things sit?  
YU LIU: I always look at the leaderboard when there is, so Celine has been doing an incredible job this year.  Definitely great role model for all the Dukies, and hopefully I'll be able to do what she's done this season, get a win.   
 Q.  How close were you with Celine at Duke?  Were you friends?  
YU LIU: Oh, we were the best friends.   
 Q.  And you were there one year and won a national championship?  
YU LIU: Oh, yeah.   
 Q.  Would you like to play with her this weekend?  Have you guys played on the LPGA?  
YU LIU: Yeah.  We played together in Singapore.  We were in the leader group, but we didn't -- like neither of us played very well.   
 Q.  What did you learn from that experience?  
YU LIU: Just stay in the moment and don't think about too much.  Sometimes I get a little too quick on the course when I'm not playing well.  Just try to stay patient.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT