HONDA LPGA THAILAND
February 23, 2019
Yu Liu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. How did you manage to pull off a 6-under round today?
YU LIU: 5-under.
Q. Okay.  Still, pretty good.
YU LIU: Yeah, I'm really happy about it.  I had a pretty good pairing, pretty big time pairing with Nelly and Georgia.  We all played pretty sold, especially Nelly.  So we just kind of just fairways and greens and make some putts.
Today I was able to hit them pretty close so I managed to make birdies on the par-5s, which is pretty crucial on this golf course.  Can be a tough course if your ball-striking is not on pointe because the greens are very undulated, a lot of slopes, and tough to get up and down.
So I think my ball striking has been pretty good all week.  Only missed one green today, one green yesterday, so that made it easier.
Q. Talking about your pairing, both of them are recent winners on the LPGA Tour.  What did you take away from their game, or did you try to focus on just yours?
YU LIU: Yeah, definitely during tournament I just try to focus on my own game, try to stay within my shots.  I think they're both really solid players, great personalities, great competitor to play with, and I really enjoyed it out there today.
Q. How do you like playing in this tournament, in the heat, on this course?
YU LIU: I love playing in the heat because the ball goes a lot further.  Makes the course a lot scorable and shorter.  It's just -- and sweat a lot.  You burn a lot of calories so you can eat more.
Always a good point.
Q. Talking about food, what have you been eating this week?
YU LIU: I've been eating at the pro-am party and then the RICOH party on Tuesday night, going to the mall three times already.  The mall is insanely good.  It's got everything you can imagine.  I've been eating different places every day.  I really love Thailand.
Q. Do you think this is maybe one of your favorite stops on the tour?
YU LIU: Oh, for sure.  Food-wise it's amazing.  One of the best.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT