RICOH WOMEN’S BRITISH OPEN
August 2, 2018
Yu Liu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. She's still smiling.  Disappointing way, of course, for you to finish the round, but otherwise, quite a successful beginning here at the Women's British Open.
YU LIU: Yeah.  Just my second major championship.  I'm definitely very happy with it.  Not the way that I wanted to finish, but.
Q. What is it about links golf you learned early on your first round here on Thursday?
YU LIU: I think it's just all about judgment.  You have to pick your distance, you have to call where to aim your lines on the tee, and tough shots.  It's a lot of thinking, for sure.
Q. You finished in the top 21 at the Ladies Scottish Open last week.  How much did that help you prepare for Lytham?
YU LIU: Yeah, definitely a lot.  That was my first time playing on a links course.  And I've always loved to hit in the wind.  I've been always practicing hard, because it used to be one of my weakness, but now I turned it into one of my strengths.
Q. You seem to be the fast leader, 3-under par, currently one off the lead.  What will you take away from today to improve on tomorrow?
YU LIU: So apparently it went pretty well the first 17 holes, and so I just really learned about the last hole, the importance of keeping your ball on the fairway.  So I'll take that.
Q. Avoiding the bunkers here at Lytham, but otherwise a wonderful round here.  Well done.
YU LIU: Thank you.
Q. Can you just tell us, like 18, what went on, shot by shot?
YU LIU: Yeah, the wind picked up a little the last two holes, but right now I'm kind of tired.  It was definitely one of the toughest holes on this golf course.  And tee shot was very important.  So I had bunkers on both sides that were kind of in play.  So I kind of had to hit it straight.  So unfortunately it went the worst side, to the right.  And I had like a decent lie in the fescue, so I decided to just pitch something and try to get up and down from there.  And just the ball didn't fly much, so ended up in a tough lie in the bunker.  So two shots from there.
Q. How did you feel about your day otherwise?  Seemed like you were just playing flawless.
YU LIU: Yeah.  I felt very good.  Putting has been the key.  Like I changed to a new putter last week.  And it's been very consistent.
Q. What did you switch to?  What are you using now?
YU LIU: (Indiscernible) 90.  Yeah.
Q. Is this your first British?
YU LIU: Yeah, my first British.
Q. Were you surprised to see how well you did this being kind of your first experience?
YU LIU: Yeah, but I feel like my game really suits well in the, because I like to hit a lot of low tee shots and low iron shots.
Q. What's it like playing here where there's so much tradition from past tournaments?
YU LIU: Oh, it's incredible.  This is my first time, actually, being in Europe.  And the culture is just amazing, and really enjoyed it.
Q. So last week would have been your first-ever time in Europe?
YU LIU: First-ever time in Europe.
Q. What food do you like around here?
YU LIU: Last week I had the traditional Scottish haggis.
Q. What did you make of that?
YU LIU: Loved it.  I love lamb, and livers.  Chinese people love stuff like that.  I do, too.
Q. Really?
YU LIU: Yeah, we love organs.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT