CME GROUP TOUR CHAMPIONSHIP
November 22, 2019
Yu Liu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  66 today; what went well? Tell us about your round.  
YU LIU: Yeah, I started off really hot. The first four holes I would say are four of the toughest on the course, but I birdied the first three, so it was a very unbelievable start compared to yesterday. Afterwards I kind of cooled down a little bit on the back nine. I haven't been driving the ball that well lately, so today was just being pretty conservative off the tee and trying to keep the ball in the fairway. But I think the plan really worked out because the other part of my game has been very solid. Today I was lucky to leave myself a lot of easier putts compared to yesterday because yesterday I had a lot of big, breaking putts, and today it was pretty straightforward, so I was able to make a lot of those.   
 Q.  How important on this golf course, especially with how tough the first hole is, getting off to a really good start, how important is that to a good round out here?  
YU LIU: Yeah, I think it's quite interesting that they made everybody tee off on No. 1 because I think it would play very differently teeing off on 1 compared to 10 because you're always going to face a lot of challenge coming out, and if you're struggling a little bit, it could affect you mentally a little bit if you're not getting off to a good start. So it really challenges your patience and just your mental game.   
 Q.  You've had a really great sophomore year out here on the LPGA this season. What's been the biggest thing that maybe you've learned about yourself this year?  
YU LIU: I just feel like I've been getting a lot more settled in on the Tour, just getting myself adjusted well to the life out here and getting used to playing with the big names. The first year I was a little scared, I don't know, here and there playing with -- I had a pretty nice pairing today playing with Sung Hyun and Amy. They're both very top players in the world. Yeah, but I was feeling very comfortable out there, so I think that was the biggest adjustment.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT