U.S. WOMEN'S OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
June 1, 2019
Yu Liu
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Great round today.  
YU LIU: Thank you.   
 Q.  Can you talk about -- you seem to be putting beautifully.  Can you talk about how you've adjusted on this golf course?  
YU LIU: Yeah, I actually struggled a lot on my putting last week.  So this week, I just really spent a lot of time.  But this is -- because I practice and live in Florida, so Bermuda greens this week is what I'm really used to.  So I -- it's kind of like playing on my home course a little bit so that was definitely an advantage on the greens.   
 Q.  Could you talk about going to Duke, how you ended up going to Duke?  I mean, Duke's all over the leaderboard here between you and Celine and Gina.  
YU LIU: I know.   
 Q.  What brought you to Duke?  
YU LIU: It was just my dream school since day one.  So I read an article on Golf Digest when I was pretty little.  So it was the number one ranked school, golf-wise and academically.  So since then, it was like this is where I want to go.   
 Q.  Where were you when you read the article?  
YU LIU: I was in China, back home.   
 Q.  Can you talk about your relationship with Celine?  You guys won a National Championship together.  
YU LIU: So we had a pretty similar background.  We went to Duke together for one year, but I, like her, I didn't -- I wasn't able to finish.  So I turned pro.   
But we played on Symetra Tour, and we graduated over there together in '17.  So then last year, we were together as a rookie.  So she's always been one of my best friends on tour.  I think we have a lot of things in common, personality-wise, as well.  So just a really great friend of mine.   
 Q.  What would it be like to play with her on a Sunday in a Major?  
YU LIU: Oh, I'd never have imagined this before.  This is something that I've dreamed about, playing with my best friend in the last group in a Major Championship, so I'm definitely going to try to enjoy the moment.   
 Q.  What do you think will be the key for you tomorrow to be successful in such a pressurized situation?  
YU LIU: Just keep my head in the right position.  Just keep playing like what I've been doing the past three days.  I think my game, it's -- I wouldn't say it's 100 percent where I want it to be, but at least I'm putting well.  Just have to keep it going.   
 Q.  Your caddie says you're pretty focused when you play.  Do you think you'll talk a lot with Celine, or will you guys both be --  
YU LIU: No, we don't talk that much during tournaments.  I think none of us is really a talker on the course.  So just try to be focused.   
 Q.  Have you met Gina Kim?  
YU LIU: No, I've never met her, actually.  She's a lot younger than me.   
 Q.  Did you watch Duke win the National title?  
YU LIU: Oh, yeah.  It was something that -- the vibe was just so passionate and something that you wouldn't expect at a golf tournament.   
 Q.  What's tonight going to be like for you?  Are you going to be able to get some rest, or are you going to be too amped up getting ready for tomorrow?  
YU LIU: It's probably 7:00.  Maybe I'll do some putting, do my normal routine, get a good dinner, and then try to go to bed early.  I'll have some time off before my round tomorrow and just think about how I'm going to approach tomorrow's round mentally.   
 Q.  How much did you watch the leaderboard today, if at all, as you were making this run?  
YU LIU: I watched every hole.  Like whenever there's a leaderboard, I will go and try to see what's going on.  I'm just definitely a leaderboard watcher.   
 Q.  What was your favorite part about college?  
YU LIU: Just everything.  I would say coming -- that was my first experience coming straight from China to the U.S., so just getting to know the culture here.  I think it was -- it really gave me a lot of advantage playing on Tour.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT