ALFRED DUNHILL LINKS CHAMPIONSHIP
October 5, 2018
Ashley Chesters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. You must be happy with that bogey-free great round.  Sum it up for us?
ASHLEY CHESTERS: I didn't hit the ball as good as I have done, I hit putts from all over the place.  Once it was on the green, it felt like a good birdie chance because I knocked them in from everywhere.
Q. You must feel the game is in good shape?
ASHLEY CHESTERS: I played all right but I didn't feel I was striking it particularly well.  I hit one awful iron shot on 11 that I got quite lucky with but I didn't feel -- I hit it close a couple of times.  It was just the putting more than anything.
Q. What's the difference coming from St. Andrews with the wind yesterday, new course?
ASHLEY CHESTERS: I don't know if the greens -- I think it might have been just not playing in the wind because I putted horrendously in the wind.  I find it difficult just to keep the putter still.  Short ones are horrible.  I missed from a foot on my fourth hole.
I think just coming out, having some nice weather probably made quite a big difference because you don't get many days better than this, do you.
Q. Mentality going to Carnoustie?
ASHLEY CHESTERS: This is probably the one I've played the least but I've played Carnoustie a lot with amateur stuff.  I quite like it.  You have to avoid the bunkers off the tee.  If it's as windy as it was yesterday, it will be difficult, and the greens are lovely there in the practice round, so hopefully I can keep putting the way I putted today and see where that puts me.
Q. Nice position going into the weekend, as well.
ASHLEY CHESTERS: I had last week off and six in a row before then.
Q. So rest was needed?
ASHLEY CHESTERS: Very much so.  I was nearly on mental breakdown the last couple of weeks.  Six was too many but I had to do it.  It was nice to spend some time at home and ended up watching The Ryder Cup all weekend.  Nice to have a rest and do that.  It was definitely needed.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT