THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 20, 2015
Ashley Chesters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  ASHLEY CHESTERS: Yeah, it's been a great tournament.  I was just saying in one of the other interviews, I think apart from the last three holes on the first day and the 15th today, I've not hit many bad shots -- I didn't really hit many bad shots on the 15th today, either, but yeah I've played really good this week, so I'm really happy.   Q.  You did take on the best in the world (inaudible) how pleasing is that?  ASHLEY CHESTERS: Yeah, it's obviously great.  I looked at the scoreboard on the 10th, and I actually had an eagle putt, and I saw that that was to tie me for the lead.  I think that was why I hit it so hard, actually.  But yeah, it's crazy to think I could have had a putt to lead The Open on the final day.   Q.  Actually last year you missed (inaudible) what does that say about this tournament?  ASHLEY CHESTERS: Yeah, I can't really complain about that too much because I've obviously done -- I think I've done well anyway, so it's just great that there's so many amateurs up there.  Yeah, might even be two or three of them to finish in front of me.  It's great for amateur golf, as well, I guess.   Q.  When are you going to turn pro?  ASHLEY CHESTERS: I'll probably wait and play the Walker Cup now and then hopefully this will do me no harm in getting picked for that, and then possibly turn pro after that.   Q.  What else have you gone planed for this year?  ASHLEY CHESTERS: I've got to go back and defend the European Amateur again.  It'll probably just be that and the Walker Cup.  We'll see what else comes up, really.   Q.  You're a young player trying to make his way in the game.  (Indiscernible.)  ASHLEY CHESTERS: I don't know.  I wasn't really -- I didn't really have much chance to think about that.  I don't know what shots have been shown all week to be honest, so I guess the BBC probably had problems with it because it wasn't supposed to be on today, so yeah, I can't really do a lot about that.   Q.  How did you get into golf as a youngster?  ASHLEY CHESTERS: My dad who's just over there, I used to go up in the evening just with a putter and a wedge and just chuck a couple of balls around the green while he played.  Yeah, so it was through him.   Q.  Did you watch lots of golf on TV when you were young?  ASHLEY CHESTERS: Probably not when I was too young, but more and more through like teen -- when I was a teenager.  I have watched a lot of golf over the years, yeah.   Q.  (Inaudible) standing there today?  ASHLEY CHESTERS: I guess so.  But it's more -- you get more from going out there yourself rather than watching on the telly.  But yeah, watching good players on the telly probably does help, yeah.  
 

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT