THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 19, 2015
Ashley Chesters
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Ashley, tell me about your round.ASHLEY CHESTERS: Yeah, I got off to a pretty good start, which was nice, and then managed to hang on to it this time.  Made a bogey on 17 but made up for it on 18, which was a bit better than the other day.Q. (Inaudible.)ASHLEY CHESTERS: Yeah, you saw me the other day.  I wasn't in the best of moods.  Finishing with a birdie always cheers the day up no matter what else you do, so yeah, always nice to finish with a birdie.Q. (Inaudible.)ASHLEY CHESTERS: Yeah, it wasn't too bad.  We just had the rain for -- we were stuck on the 14th tee for quite a while, and that was when most of the rain passed over, so it was quite nice that we had a bit of a wait.  But other than that, the weather wasn't too bad at all.  There was hardly any wind.Q. (Inaudible.)ASHLEY CHESTERS: Oh, I just leave him to it.  There's no controlling him.Q. (Inaudible.)ASHLEY CHESTERS: Yeah, well, it tried to pop out the other side, as well, but it did eventually hit the hole.  I wasn't sure, but thankfully it went in.Q. (Inaudible.)ASHLEY CHESTERS: I just want to do as well as I can and see what happens.  If I play well, I'll be happy, and if I win the Silver Medal, even better. All the amateurs seem to have done pretty well with the scores, so I don't think Paul has even teed off yet.  I'll see where I'm sitting at the end of the day and take it from there.  If I just play well again tomorrow then I'll be happy.Q. (Inaudible.)ASHLEY CHESTERS: I'm hoping so, but you never know what's going to happen.  But hopefully, yeah.  Hopefully finish with a good round tomorrow, as well.Q. What's it feel like to see your name up on the leaderboard with all those great names?  Do you have more of a professional mindset now?ASHLEY CHESTERS: I don't know, I haven't really thought about it.  It's nice to see your name on any leaderboard.Q. (Inaudible.)ASHLEY CHESTERS: The first two days I didn't actually feel pressure, but for some reason this morning I didn't hit the ball very well on the range, which didn't help, so for the first hole I was definitely a bit shaky.  It was more like when I played the first round last year rather than the first two days, but I don't know whether that was just the fact I hadn't hit the ball very well on the range or the fact that I hadn't played the third round of a major before.  But I hit it close in the second and then after that the nerves went.Q. (Inaudible.)ASHLEY CHESTERS: I might do at the end, not yet.  You never know where you're going to finish.  Yeah, I might do that at the end.Q. (Inaudible.)ASHLEY CHESTERS: A house would be a good start.  Maybe a car, as well.  I still live with my family, so it would be quite nice to have a house.  You can't get your prize money yet, so I can't get too carried away.Q. What's your father's name?ASHLEY CHESTERS: Nigel.Q. Is he a golfer?ASHLEY CHESTERS: Yeah, he's quite good.  He's off maybe scratch or plus one.Q. When did you beat him?ASHLEY CHESTERS: Maybe 14, 13 or 14.  We had to play each other in the club championship final at our golf club when I was 12, but he gave me a good hiding that day.  Yeah, maybe 13 or 14 I probably beat him for the first time I would guess.Q. And what about your mother?  Somebody said she was good, too?ASHLEY CHESTERS: She's off 14 maybe.  They're both captain -- lady captain of our golf club last year.Q. What's your mother's name?ASHLEY CHESTERS: Gina.Q. Do you have a car at the moment?ASHLEY CHESTERS: I do have a car, yeah, Peugeot 308.  I quite like it, as well.  I'm not that big into cars to be honest, so as long as it gets me from A to B, that's fine.Q. (Inaudible.)  Did that help you on the way around?ASHLEY CHESTERS: Yeah, it did help.  I saw I was between Harris and Andy on the score, so I knew I was going to be playing with one of them, so it was nice the fact that I played the first two days with them, as well, so yeah.  He played well, as well.Q. (Inaudible.)ASHLEY CHESTERS: A lot, yeah.  We were in regional squads together for probably four or five years.Q. And you played matches between the two of you?ASHLEY CHESTERS: I can't remember ever actually playing him one-on-one in match play, but I remember I played him when I won the Midland Boys.  That was when I was about 15.Q. You'll be playing in the final round of The Open tomorrow.  What will you expect to do?ASHLEY CHESTERS: Rest, because we've got our Walker Cup training two days at Lytham on Tuesday and Wednesday, so I was going to -- if I made the four rounds, I was going to go home on Monday and then just rest and then go to Lytham on Tuesday morning, so it might be a bit more hectic getting to Lytham, so we'll see what happens.Q. What are you expecting here?ASHLEY CHESTERS: I'll probably go -- I don't know.  I might go home -- Lytham isn't that far from home, so we'll see.Q. Hobbies apart from golf?ASHLEY CHESTERS: Big into football.  I've got a season ticket, Man United.  I love a bit of football.  Yeah, music is another one, as well.Q. What, do you play?ASHLEY CHESTERS: No, I just like listening to -- I go and watch quite a lot of live music.  That's the two things I spend my spare time doing really, football and music.Q. Who do you listen to?ASHLEY CHESTERS: Jay-Z.


END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT