NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS v CARDINALS
October 10, 2013
Joe Kelly
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   I think you may have heard Mike say that you earned this start.   But for you, because of everything that you've endured this season, what does it really mean to be starting Game 1 of the NLCS?   
JOE KELLY:   Well, I mean, it's obviously super exciting.   Something that being a little kid, it's something you look forward to just getting to the playoffs.   To be named a Game 1 starter, when he told me that, I got chills and goose bumps.   To have the confidence that he has in me, my skipper, it's going to be really fun, and I really can't wait for it.  
   
 Q.   Do you understand how huge this game is tomorrow?   
JOE KELLY:   I don't know.   You know me more than anyone, I mean, it's another game for me going out there and pitching and trying to do what I can to help this ballclub win.   It is Game 1 of the NLCS, but me being me, I'm going to go out there and just pitch like it's another game.  
   
 Q.   Just looking back on this year and just kind of the journey that you had to take to get to this start, what was your mindset as you're going through the bullpen and then getting that opportunity again?   
JOE KELLY:   My mindset was just come to the field ready every day, no matter what my job was that day.   Using me later in the game early in the year, and me being the long guy after that, like I said, you've got to come to the park mentally prepared to begin the game at any moment.   
I went through a couple dry spells where I didn't pitch for 12, 13, 14 days, but I mean, if you're not locked in and you get that opportunity, you might miss it.   So, I mean, I was just coming to the park and working my tail off and making sure when I got my chance that I was definitely ready for it.  
   
 Q.   You're part of a staff now that has guys younger than you.   What's that been like just kind of being a part of that and seeing some of these younger guys come through?   
JOE KELLY:   It's been a great ride.   I mean, it's been really, really easy for those guys to come up and do what they can, because we have such a great leader with Chris Carpenter and Adam Wainwright.   Those are two of the best in the game obviously.   You saw Wainwright pitch yesterday.   He's one of the best and he's a great ace.   The words of wisdom those guys have for us, it's almost as if it's like we have to go out there and just pitch.   They kind of coach you through everything else.   Especially with Yadier back there, it's definitely ‑‑ you just kind of throw whatever he calls down.   
But to watch and see how they go about their business, even though Chris isn't playing this year, he still does everything right.   He tells us what we're doing wrong.   We all go watch each other's bullpens.   To have that, I don't know, that's probably what the Cardinal organization is about.   But to have guys like that around 24/7 makes it a little bit easier for us young guys when we get the chance for our time to pitch.  
   
 Q.   Do you see the Dodgers a lot like the Pirates or different?   
JOE KELLY:   Well, we didn't play them 24 times this year, so I couldn't really tell you much about that.   All I know is they're a really, really good ballclub, exactly like what the Pirates were.   It's going to be a dog fight just like we just had with the Pirates.   It's ultimately going to come down to execution of pitches and putting good swings on the ball and playing good defense.   So it's something that our club is ready for and definitely looking forward to this series.  
   
 Q.   Is there pride on the team that you have like a middle range payroll and the Dodgers are spending all kinds of money and you're on the same stage?   
JOE KELLY:   Honestly, I don't think our guys even focus on that other than going out there and playing the game of baseball.   I guess that's just an outside factor that we don't really want to pay attention to, so I couldn't really tell you that honestly.  
   
 Q.   You're going against a really good pitcher in Greinke.   How do you resist the impulse to focus on that and instead just try to stay within your own game?   
JOE KELLY:   I've gone against a few good pitchers this year, and it's something that when I got there personally I try to focus what I can do to keep the game as close as possible and win ballgames and help our offense get back in the dugout as soon as we can.   I don't want to go out there and say, hey, man, this guy is throwing up zeros, I have to throw up a zero right away.   
It's just going to be a really good, fun, duel, and you've got to kind of focus on yourself and what your team is doing and just making pitches and not worrying about, hey, if this guy is throwing a perfect game or no hitter.   You don't want to be the pitcher on the other side going great.   If I give up a run, it's over.   You just want to focus what you can to get their guys out, and get your guys back in the dugout.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it behooves you guys that there really isn't much of a layoff after the LDS?   You guys kind of jump right back into it instead of three days off?   
JOE KELLY:   Are you saying is it better?   
   
 Q.   Yeah.   
JOE KELLY:   I don't know.   Baseball is a funny game.   You could be laid off for eight days and come out and play absolutely the best baseball you've ever done.   You could come out and play the next day and not have a good game.   This is all about execution and how you're playing the game that day.   So I don't really think there is an advantage or disadvantage to any of that.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT