UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 4, 2011
Pariya Junhasavasdikul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your thoughts on the final day?  
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   I'm just glad it's over.   Didn't have a very good start like yesterday again, but somehow I managed to turn it around again.   Right now, I'm just glad it's over with.   I'm just‑‑ my weak feelings in my knees and everything.   Good finish.  
   
 Q.   You should be proud of yourself, digging deep here, another double thrown in and you still salvaged something good.   
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   I was more or less looking that's should not even happen with a double‑bogey, but I'm kind of glad, I keep my head up and birdies going to come and it did.  
   
 Q.   Did you relish playing on the final day knowing that you had this chance?  
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   I kind of tell myself, don't expect too much but just go play and whatever you get, you've got to accept the result of it.   You can't force anything.   You can't force yourself to shoot 7‑ or 8‑under.   It's not‑‑ golf doesn't work that way.   
You can be 3‑ or 4‑under par the day, and you think you're going to win, but some guy might come in with 10‑under, you never know.   So I try to do my best and try not to look on the leaderboard, but sometimes just couldn't help it.   Golf is golf.   
   
 Q.   I'm all right in thinking that when it settles down and you look at that leaderboard, hey, my name is right up there just behind Rory McIlroy and others?  
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   I was looking on the 17th green, after I made birdie on 15, chipped in on 15 and made birdie on 16, when I walked up on the green on 17, I looked at the leaderboard and I was like, well, could be a top three, if I can roll in on 17.   
Like I said, you can't really force anything, but I tried my best, get a good pace and tried to hit it down the middle of the fairway on 18 and get a 2‑putt from there and that's what I did.   
I'm glad that I can walk away with a par on 18 ‑‑ with that amount of crowd.   
   
 Q.   Wonderful theatre out there.   
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   Yeah, it's a wonderful feeling out there, after you've made your putt, it's a wonderful feeling but before you make your putt, it's actually the other way around.   You actually feel all the pressure and it's like, oh my God, it's a lot of people there.   
   
 Q.   But it is all part of the learning curve, so you only get better from here?  
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   It is.   I've been away for so long, I didn't get that feeling to help me as much today.   But you know, at least this is a good week of learning and hopefully I can carry on for the next week.   
   
 Q.   This is going to give you a lot of confidence for the last tournament of the year back home?  
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   I hope so.   I hope so.   It's being played in Thailand, and I played that course before in the British Open qualifier, somehow I shot under par in the conditions, and I didn't even expect I'm going to shoot under par.   
If I keep playing like I'm playing this week, you know, might get a good chance.   But I won't expect too much.   I'll just do my part, one shot at a time.  
   
 Q.   Is the game back to where you want it to be after the troubles you've had last week?   
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   Well, you can always find room for improvement in golf.   It's never ending.   There are a few shots that I hit today that I didn't really like, and I didn't hit any fairways with my driver today.   
So it's something to work on.   That means there are some loose putts‑‑ especially playing under pressure and not hitting as many fairways as you want, that means your swing is probably not very efficient enough.   So there must be something that you've got to go back and look at.   My coach is here, he flew in yesterday and worked with me today and hopefully he sees something and we'll go back and work on in the next week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT