UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 3, 2011
Pariya Junhasavasdikul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Thanks for coming in.   After a start like that, I'm sure the last thing you thought was you would be sitting here right now.   Tell us about your day.
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   It didn't start out well.   I had bogey on the first hole and pulled it to the left and had no shot to the green.   Second shot over the green, 3‑putted from there. 
Second hole was even worse, kind of went off my game plan a little bit and went with a driver on the first shot and didn't carry over the bunker and ended up against the lip.   Hit the shot, almost came back and hit me again, and ended up making double there. 
But, well, I caught a lucky break on the third hole and I made birdie there.   And you know, I keep telling myself, okay, the round is not over, you know, you made it through the weekend already after I played really bad the last couple months.   And you know, just go out there and my caddie just go out and enjoy it and that's what we did, just one shot at a time and try to make something happen.   Absolutely got lucky, it kind of went my way today. 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   After a run of five missed cuts in the last six events that you've had in the last two months, what's worked this week for you? 
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   Just worked out with my coach last week almost every day. 
Before that, I had four or five events in a row, and I didn't get a chance to go in and check my swing with my coach at all.   Last week, took a video of my swing, and a lot of position I was in the wrong position, and finally made a very big adjustment.
I still didn't really feel comfortable with my swing, even right now, but somehow it held up.   It's a lot of work to get the swing in the right position, and you know, when you're fixing the swing, you never feel really comfortable. 
But it's kind of towards the end of the year, and next year‑‑ I figure next year is going to have to be a bigger year for me than this year.   So finally decided to make the adjustment last week, and somehow it paid off this week. 

Q.   From the position you're in now, what's the game plan tomorrow, to go out and attack? 
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   I can't really say.   I haven't been in this position for a long while.   Even like today, I had my game plan set up, just go out and enjoy it, and the first couple of holes, I actually went off my game plan. 
So I guess tomorrow, we'll just have to make better decisions and kind of have to stick to my game plan.   We'll make a little adjustment to that second hole, not going to be aggressive with it again.   Hopefully some putts will fall in, and keep it straight.   There will be some pressure. 
So let's hope all of my feelings that I used to play in big tournaments before, kind of come back to me and kind of tell me how I have to prepare for tomorrow. 

Q.   You said this is sort of an unfamiliar position; does that make it harder or easier for you tomorrow, if you are not quite used to that?
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   Being here and playing amongst the top guys is already progress, so I won't expect too much.   I'll just go out there and enjoy it. 
I've been in this position before, but not this year.   I've been in this position last year, and I learned a lot of things from it.   You know, there's always a thing called pressure there, but if you don't put pressure on yourself, nobody can put pressure on you. 
Let's hope I can go out there and feel my comfort zone and enjoy the game like today.   I didn't really kind of look at the leaderboard.   I didn't really feel anything.   I'm up there, I saw my name spelled wrong, I kind of laughed at it with my caddie. 
Just go out there and have some fun, and that will be my comfort zone.   So have to go out there and enjoy it. 

Q.   Which part of Thailand are you from? 
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   Bangkok. 

Q.   Any flooding affect your place? 
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   There's flooding around outside of Bangkok, outer area.   Inner Bangkok is fine.   My house is in inner Bangkok and we are lucky we didn't get any flooding at my house. 
CHUAH CHOO CHIANG:   Thank you and good luck tomorrow.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT