UBS HONG KONG OPEN
December 2, 2011
Pariya Junhasavasdikul
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You have a big smile on your face.  
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   It's been a long while.   I haven't shot under par in a long while and today it was very good, good ball‑striking, good putting, nothing to complain about.  
   
 Q.   And a good way to finish a round and get you up on the leaderboard.   
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   Yeah, I birdied 17, I had a wedge in my hand and made birdie.   
18, I sprayed one right and I had 180 yards, had to cut a 4‑iron around the trees and I hit it over the green, completely buried.   I almost stepped on my ball, and from there, I hacked it out, somehow it found the hole, found the bottom of the cup.   It's pretty exciting.   
   
 Q.   You talked about not playing good rounds; what's been the problem?   
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   I've been struggling a lot with my swing.   Been away too much, and haven't come in and checked the swing, so it's like your handwriting keeps going off and off and off, and next thing you know, your position is wrong, and you can't get the club back to the square position and a lot of things happen.   Last week I got a week off, and get something done.   
   
 Q.   What did you find?   
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   Oh, lots and lots of things.   I was moving everywhere, my clubs were in the wrong position, everything.   So it felt like I'm playing with a new swing, apparently somehow it sticks up to the challenge and that's the result I guess.   
   
 Q.   Two behind the leaders going into the last two round of the Hong Kong Open, must be quite exciting for you?  
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   Very exciting.   I won't expect too much, just like what I did last year, just expect a good couple more rounds and try to get a Top‑10 again.   A lot of my friends says, you know, you haven't been Mr.Top‑10 for a while, so here is a good chance.  
   
 Q.   Is this the kind of golf course which suits your aye, suits your game?  
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   I don't know, I don't really like narrow type of golf courses but I've played well here the last couple of years.   You never know, if you have a good ball‑striking week and your putting cooperates, and especially a little luck on your short game like on the last hole, you can always be up there.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure you're not surprised to see Panupol up on the leaderboard, as well.   
PARIYA JUNHASAVASDIKUL:   Not at all.   He's a good ball striker and one of the hard‑working boys out there.   So it will be nice to see him walking behind me tomorrow, and I'll be cheering for him.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT