US OPEN
September 7, 2020
Matteo Berrettini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








A. RUBLEV/M. Berrettini
4-6, 6-3, 6-3, 6-3
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Moments after the match ended it appeared something upset you.  What happened before you walked up to the net?
MATTEO BERRETTINI:   I don't know.  There was a guy that was supporting, cheering for Andrey.  He was acting fine for all the match.  At the end of the match I don't know why he said 'forza'.  There wasn't any need to do that, to say that, because I didn't say anything during the match.  Me and Andrey are actually on really good terms.
I didn't like that I lost, so I was upset also for my loss.  I just ask him why he said that in Italian.  There was no need to fight, anything.  Nothing.  I was upset for that.
Q. What specifically do you think Andrey has improved since this time last year?
MATTEO BERRETTINI:   I think a lot of things, not big obviously.  When you get to this level, there are not really big things, especially for a player like him.  I think he's returning better, serving better.  His forehand and backhand are more heavy.
I mean, I knew every time that I play him that he was improving every time that we play each other, playing better and better, like I said, after I won against Ruud.  I was ready to find him in these conditions especially after he started so well.
I think everything, he improved everything a little bit.  Today he was just better than me.
Q. Especially without the big three in New York, how big of a threat is Andrey?
MATTEO BERRETTINI:   I mean, I really think that everyone can win the tournament.  I think my spot is pretty tough, like all the spots.  I saw now that Daniil is playing.  He's two sets up.  If he's going to win, it's going to be a tough quarterfinal.
I saw Thiem playing against Felix.  He was looking good.
There are a lot of players that are playing really well.  I don't know who's going to win.  Andrey for sure has a lot of chances.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT