ROLAND GARROS
October 3, 2020
Matteo Berrettini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  D. ALTMAIER/M. Berrettini
 6-2, 7-6, 6-4
 THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
 Q. It wasn't your day today.  Can you tell us how you're feeling right now.
 MATTEO BERRETTINI:   Pretty upset.  I was really feeling bad on the court.  I'm feeling bad now.  Didn't play well in the big stage.  It's painful.
 But I guess that's tennis.
 Q. Did Daniel catch you by surprise?  What do you feel he did well?
 MATTEO BERRETTINI:   Last time I saw him was long time ago.  I kind of knew which kind of player he is.  I think he was playing really, really good.  He was moving well.  He made me move a lot.  He was playing good backhand slice.  Serving well.  I didn't play my best tennis.  Was tough.
 For me, I felt the conditions were pretty heavy.  And nothing.  I wasn't feeling good.  I tried to fight.  I tried to play with what I had, but wasn't enough.  I think he really deserved the win.
 Q. Was it the way you were feeling, playing tennis, the way you were thinking?  Was it a combination of all those things?
 MATTEO BERRETTINI:   I think it was a combination.  I think after you feel little bit down mentally, also your tennis is going to be affected about this.  Yeah, I was struggling to find the right attitude, the right energy.  I was nervous.  When I tried to calm down, I was too calm.  I was struggling every single aspect of the game.
 It was a really bad day.  I actually almost won a set playing like this, feeling like this.  It's just a bad day.  Maybe if I won that set, it would have changed something but I guess we will never know.
 Q. You said the second set was very competitive.  What did you say to yourself at the end of the second set?
 MATTEO BERRETTINI:   I mean, I've been playing tennis for a long time.  It's normal.  I know that you can lose, you can win the tiebreak, especially when it's so close.
 The thing is, sometimes you lose and you see, like, the light.  Today I was losing, and I was seeing everything dark.  I had so many breakpoints at the beginning of the third as well.  I tried to say to myself to keep going.  The match is long.
 I guess I was just playing too bad and I wasn't there mentally so I couldn't help myself.
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT