THE CHAMPIONSHIPS
July 8, 2019
Matteo Berrettini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








R. FEDERER/M. Berrettini
6-1, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Obviously a tough match.  What do you think was not working for you today?
MATTEO BERRETTINI: I think for sure I didn't play my best match, but he was just too good for me today.  Yeah, I think, yeah, he was playing good and, you know, I was kind of tight, also.
I expect that.  Before the match I was kind of ready for that stuff, and also, yeah, when he starts to play like this, for me, it's really tough to do anything.  I mean, I wasn't serving also so well, so didn't help me, my serve.  Yeah, he was playing better.
Q. What are you doing to try to change momentum when it's going very fast in his direction?
MATTEO BERRETTINI: I mean, you can try to change something, but when he's playing like this, it's tough to change.  You know, like, you can change mentally but he's not gonna change anything.
I think it's gonna be, like, really helpful for my career, but -- yeah.  I try to think of my serve, but also when I was serving well, he was returning, like, really good.  I mean, he moves so well.  Yeah.  (Smiling.)
Q. Were you having any issues with your visibility at all, the darkness?  Wondering if you could see the ball at all?
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Yeah, I wasn't seeing really well, you know.  I didn't expect that, because -- I mean, for sure is not the reason why I lost (smiling) but, yeah, I was struggling a little bit more than -- yeah.  Yeah, he's playing fast, so that didn't help me a lot.
Q. You spoke to the umpire?  The umpire just said there's nothing we can do about it?
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Yeah, he just told me it's like this, decided to let you guys playing.
Q. Were you hoping that the roof would come on?
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Yeah, they told me.  I saw it, but I ask also Roger in the locker.
Q. Afterwards?
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Yeah, after the match.  Was me or was dark?  He was, like, So dark.
At least, like, he was agree with me.  Yeah.
Q. When he's playing that fast, is it difficult to stay with him?  In the first set he was averaging 14 seconds between points.  How do you recover?  Are you, like, Wait, wait, wait?
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Yeah, the points were going, like, really fast.  Just serve and -- yeah, I mean, serve and first shot.  I wasn't tired, so I couldn't, like, I couldn't stop him.  It was okay.
I don't think that if I, like, stop him could be better.  Yeah, I was just playing and trying, but like I said, it was too good.
Q. You touched a little bit your calf?  Any physical problem?
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Yeah, I lost for that (smiling).  No, I have, like, some -- I played a lot of matches during, you know, last month, so my body, you know, is feeling a little bit.
But for sure is not the reason why I lost.  The match of the other day was really tough.  I run a lot, I played a lot of, yeah, a lot of rallies.  I was kind of tired a little bit.  And my muscles also.  But that's normal.
Q. In what way was this match different from what you expected before you played?  In what way was it similar?
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Actually, yeah, I wasn't feeling so good about my strokes, my serve, my forehand, backhand, everything.  I wasn't feeling so good, so I didn't expect that, like, so -- I expected to be tight, to be, like, maybe not ready, but not like this.
But I was saying to myself that it was normal, you know, like, for me, was first time on Centre Court against him.  It's normal.
Yeah, I expected that he was playing like this, serving well and changing a lot, especially the second serve, you know, like a lot of times on my forehand.
Yeah, he was moving the ball really well.  Make me, like, move a lot.  So, yeah, I expected that.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT