US OPEN
September 6, 2019
Matteo Berrettini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. NADAL/M. Berrettini   
7-6, 6-4, 6-1   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  You were leading in the tiebreaker in the first set. Do you think if you won that tiebreaker the match would have been a little bit different?  
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Yeah, for sure. I mean, winning the first set would have mean I think a lot. Especially with him, you know, it's tough to go, like, a set down after an hour, more than an hour, with him.   
But I was feeling I was playing really good, even though he had a lot of chances on my serve. I think I played also good important points. I mean, I was brave, like I asked to myself.   
I couldn't say anything bad. I cannot complain about what I did. I was playing with Rafa, center court, in semis. I think it's okay.   
 Q.  After defeating Gael Monfils you said that you didn't remember any point you played except for the match point. How about today? Would you play one or the other in a different way, maybe in the tiebreak, not a dropshot?  
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Yeah, I remember better now (smiling).   
I'm not sure. Not sure. Like I said, I really like the way I played, the way I approached the point. Yeah, I didn't serve first serve on 6-4. I played aggressive. I went to the net. I was I think a little bit unlucky because on the forehand the ball went on the net.   
But it's okay. I was also on 6-5 really tired. We did an unbelievable rally. Really looking forward to see those points because I was feeling good.   
Yeah, I mean, I think in the first set all the points that I did, the dropshot, I won the point. Maybe with the forehand... I never did it with the backhand. It's a stroke that I like to do it. He was playing, you know, far away from the net. I think was the right choice.   
I mean, even when it didn't go the way I want it to, but I cannot complain about my choices.   
 Q.  You tried many dropshots tonight. In general you are good at that. Before the match did you try to hit many dropshots because Rafa is normally staying behind baseline? That is your strategy?  
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Yeah, yeah. I like to do it in all my matches. It's something that I like to do because when I'm playing the forehand, all the guys are kind of no scared, but they ready to run, yeah, from the baseline.   
When I have the chance, I like to do it. Yeah, he was returning really far away, so was important I think the first shot after the serve. But, you know, you have to do it perfectly, otherwise like I did in the second and third set, he was more ready. He started to know me better.   
But, yeah, I think I did it because was worth it.   
 Q.  Was the experience of facing Rafa on center court what you expected?  
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Yeah, last time I played one of the big three didn't go like that well. The feelings I had on court for sure was unbelievable experience. I didn't have so many chances. I think I learned a lot from the match in Wimbledon.   
Yeah, I was more ready. I was feeling also that the next time I'm going to play Rafa, I'll be more ready because I didn't ever play him even on practice. I didn't know what expect a lot.   
I think this match will help me a lot to improve my tennis, my everything, and for sure be ready for him the next time.   
 Q.  There's a spot empty for the European team at the Laver Cup. Would you be happy to join Team Europe?  
MATTEO BERRETTINI: Yeah, it's something that is really nice I think. Laver Cup, I like it. Last year I watch it. Was really nice, really enjoying. But I am scheduling to play in St. Petersburg. Actually I think I'm going play there.   
 Q.  What are you going to take away from this tournament?  
MATTEO BERRETTINI: A lot of things, I guess. First of all, I'm still learning the tennis. It's really weird. I was coming here with not a lot of confidence. I was injured. I didn't play a good match in Cincinnati. Didn't expect to do such a great tournament.   
I'm learning to be ready. Every match is important. Every point is important. Yeah, this one for sure. Then all the matches, you have to be focus and ready to get the chances that you're making.   
I think when I have the right attitude on the court, I can play with any guys. If I'm focusing, if I'm playing my tennis, I can be really dangerous. That's really important to have this confidence.   
 Q.  In Halle I asked you how many times you would be traveling to London. Now that you made more than 700 points approximate this semi, getting closer to that, will you reschedule and play one other tournament more? Will we see you in Vienna?  
MATTEO BERRETTINI: I remember that question in Halle. I was laughing like I'm doing right now. It's so crazy to think about that. I mean, I saw the race. It's something that I had to realize, like 9. It's a big number.   
I cannot say is a priority right now because wasn't at the beginning of the tournament. I think I'm going to play the same tournaments. I'm going to play St. Petersburg and then Beijing and Shanghai.   
I didn't know which kind of tournaments after that. But, yeah, for sure I'll try my best.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT