ATP CUP
February 3, 2021
Vincenzo Santopadre
Matteo Berrettini
Fabio Fognini
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. Vincenzo, how do you feel about being the captain of the first team through to the semifinals of the ATP Cup?
VINCENZO SANTOPADRE:   Grande.  Of course, I'm happy about this.  I'm ambitious, I would like to be the first in the last day.  Maybe it's better (smiling).
We work for it.
Q. Fabio, the match that you played looked like it was going so easily, then got tight in the second set.  Talk about that, indicate what your thoughts were.
FABIO FOGNINI:   I am, after 15 days without playing, hard quarantine.  But it's important for me playing these matches in this moment because I need this kind of adrenaline.  I was knowing that is really talented guy.  He can do a lot of thing.  I mean, he serve really well.  His backhand is unbelievable.  His forehand is not really good as his backhand, but he can play in every surface.
We play so many times.  The match, yeah, it was an easy way.  Was 6-3, 6-1, 3-0, deuce, and I miss a second serve return on I think my forehand.  After that, I get angry because I play really three bad game.
But I think the difference than yesterday was more constant if you say focus on what I have to do for sure I think in a better way, better energy.  Even when he was serving, I was always in the game.  I was losing the game, really tight game.
It's a step forward, of course, from yesterday.  I'm looking forward to hopefully another match like this or even better.  Now is getting worst and worst, the team that we play.
Q. Matteo, you played some extraordinary points in the match against Gael.  Your thoughts on how you felt it went today?  Anything you feel like you have to change, what would that be?
MATTEO BERRETTINI:   I think overall I played a good match tennis-wise.  I think the level wasn't as high as yesterday.  Obviously different conditions, different player.  Like I said yesterday, I expected there would be, like, a different day.  I was ready for that.
I think I was talking to Vincenzo before we were coming here.  Mentally I was really good today, better in my tennis.  I went down 4-1, and also in the second set I was up, but you never know.  I was focused.  I was there.  I was feeling good.
I mean, I don't have to change big things.  For sure I can adjust.  I can play better.  I can serve better.  It would be bad if I couldn't do that.  But I'm happy for my performance.  Fabio, like he said, he played a better match, was feeling better in the court.
I think we are really a bad team to play in the semifinals (smiling).
Q. The incredible cross-court winner you played.  You got very excited at that stage.
MATTEO BERRETTINI:   Yeah, because was the first break on the second set.  I felt that was, like, a good moment to break because it was the beginning on the second.  It was good to break him that moment in a point like this.  I think he felt it.  I felt it.  I went 4-1 and serving.
There are some points that are more important than others.  That's why I got excited, also because I had my bench.  There was screaming, shouting, so it was a good feeling.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT