PENN STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 20, 2015
Carl Nassib
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. I just wanted to ask you a little bit about the season as a whole, 11 and a half sacks in seven games.  Has it been a whirlwind?  Do you just take it week to week?
CARL NASSIB: Personally I don't think about stats very much.  The only stats that matter to me are wins and losses at the end of the week.  Any success that I have is chalked up to my teammates and my coaches, and it's been a privilege playing with this team.  You know, the 2015 team will never be together again after this year, so we're going to make the most of it.
Q. You've said a couple times and Coach Franklin said a couple times that you're not always used to or totally like the spotlight, but whether you like it or not, it's on you now.  Have you gotten used to it as the season has gone on and you've been more productive?
CARL NASSIB: Not really.  It's not that I -- it's not that I don't like it.  I would just rather pass the torch on to other people that I think are better at that than I.  But I think it's getting a little bit easier.
Q. James said that you shared some things with your teammates on Friday night and the team in general that he really enjoyed listening to.  Is there any of that that you can tell us about?
CARL NASSIB: No, those shares are personal to our team, and we keep them close knit.
Q. The way things have gone for you this year, I mean, do you ever surprise yourself with how it's gone because of course you have to be confident in yourself, but these numbers you're putting up, is that ever on your radar?
CARL NASSIB: You know, I never had any sort of numbers on my radar whatsoever.  I could have -- it doesn't matter.  Those things never really crossed my mind.  When people tell me about it, it's the first time I'm hearing about it.  I don't delve into that kind of stuff.  I kind of keep focus on what's important.
Q. Your teammates have kind of given you that Crazy Carl nickname.
CARL NASSIB: Yeah, first time I got called that it was in ninth grade.  I don't know how it's resurfaced.
Q. Why do they call you that; any particular reason?
CARL NASSIB: I think I'm a pretty laid-back person, but on game day I get pretty passionate and into it, or other euphemisms that I won't choose today.
Q. You came here as a walk-on, and now you're outperforming guys that were four stars, five stars.  I guess is there anything -- do you like to serve as that kind of model, showing what hard work can do to other walk-ons, not just here, to other walk-ons in the country, at other programs?
CARL NASSIB: Yeah, I would love to be a role model for walk-ons and for four-star, whatever that stuff means.  It would be awesome to be a role model for hard work, and especially for walk-ons because it is difficult, and it's hard to see where all this hard work is going when you don't see results for four or five years, you know.  That would be awesome.
Q. Over the past few games, is there any particular sack, tackle for loss, play that sticks out more than others might in your head, maybe that first one that kind of broke the floodgates open against Army maybe?
CARL NASSIB: I have one that's definitely the most memorable, and that was against San Diego State where AJ picked up the fumble and just watched him sprint 70 yards.  It was awesome.  It was kind of comical, but it was awesome.  That was my favorite one.  We were both exhausted, you know, just -- I was exhausted.  I don't think I blocked one person because I was so tired.  But he couldn't even breathe.
But it was a great moment for our team.
Q. If you had to pick one factor that's attributed to all your success on the field this season, what would you say that factor is for you this season?
CARL NASSIB: Definitely my team.  You know, so proud of my teammates and the way that they play and the heart that they have every day, and especially on game day.
Q. Do you still have plans to go to medical school, and how has that decision maybe been affected by the on-field success you've had this year?
CARL NASSIB: I do plan on doing that at some point in my life, and this hasn't really deterred me from that in any way.  But I love football, and I want to play it for as long as I can.
Q. What do you tell the other walk-ons on this team?  What advice do you give to them, sharing your experience and stuff like that?
CARL NASSIB: You know, I tell walk-ons and everybody, just work hard and put your head down.
Q. For the past seven weeks or so, we've been asking others to describe you, and it seems fair that we ask you to describe yourself to us, if you could.
CARL NASSIB: I got asked this like a week ago, and it's difficult describing yourself, I think.  I think I'm funny.  I think I'm a pretty funny guy.  I don't know.  I don't know how to describe myself.  How would you describe me?  I'm hilarious, so there you go.
Q. You've talked a couple times about hard work, and your advice to walk-ons or whoever is hard work.  Is it just that easy for you, because a lot of people put in the hard work or don't have that sort of mental focus.  Where does that come from for you?
CARL NASSIB: You know, I was just talking to my mom about this.  People work hard for a while and expect results to come out like that (snaps fingers).  It's difficult to work hard every day for long periods of time and not really see the fruits of your labor proliferate until later in life.  But those are the really lucky people that don't really -- have really strived to be the best that they can be, and one day they look at themselves and they are, and I want to be one of those people that just can look at them -- like look at myself in the mirror and think, I did everything I could to be the best that I can.  That's just kind of the mentality I've had for a while.
Q. James Franklin said that you're a little quirky.  What do you think are some of those quirks that you have?
CARL NASSIB: I laugh at my own jokes way too much.  I think that's a quirk.  But again, I think I'm hilarious.
You know, I'm kind of a nerd.  If you ask any of my friends, I'm a big nerd.  I guess -- quirky isn't nerdy, I guess.  I don't know.
Q. Watching you play, your intensity really comes out on the field.  I kind of imagine you watching Monday Night Football last night when Eli throws the second interception, screaming at the Giants to put your brother in.  Is that accurate?
CARL NASSIB: I didn't watch the game.  Yeah, I didn't watch the game.  I was in chemistry class until 9:30.
Q. Did you pick anything up from your brother along the way?  How has he been an example for you?
CARL NASSIB: He helps me out so much.  He's such a level-headed guy and such a smart guy, and you know, he just helped me out with the way to hard work and the way to just ignore the noise, whether it's good or bad, and he's done such a great job of that and I'm very proud of him.  You know, couldn't be happier for where he is and what lies ahead for him.
Q. Just following up on what Travis said, who is the best football player in the Nassib family right now?
CARL NASSIB: That would definitely without question be my seven-year old nephew.  He's a stud, Jackson.  He's a stud.  Just pure athleticism, pure just love for the game.  It's undeniable, my nephew.  Everything.  It doesn't matter.  He went to the other team because he's in flag football.  He went to the other team the other day because they didn't have enough guys, and he just destroyed his own team.  That kid loves the game, just join your own team.
Q. Just kind of an overview, you never started a game in high school or college until this year; is that right?
CARL NASSIB: That is a true fact.
Q. When you take a look at that, I mean, obviously you're getting all these questions from us now, and we're all kind of amazed that somebody would go -- to just explode like this this season.  As you look back on it, can you view it as this is pretty remarkable that you've kind of gone from never starting a game to a mid-season All-American?  Congratulations, by the way.
CARL NASSIB: Thank you.  I just really have had so much help from my coaches.  Coach Spencer has helped me out an unbelievable amount of times, Coach Shoop and Coach Franklin have always believed in me.  I'm so thankful for them, so thankful for my teammates for working so hard, and I'm having a great time.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT