TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
August 28, 2018
Dakota Allen
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Who do you think the starting quarterback is going to be?  
DAKOTA ALLEN: I'm not sure, but whoever's out there, I believe they are going to give a 110 percent effort.   
 Q.  We've heard all summer, things have changed with this defense.  Is it a cool test to get a team like Ole Miss in the first game, especially since the SEC is known for their defense, and you can show what you guys have to offer?  
DAKOTA ALLEN: Absolutely.  I think this is a great first game to kick the season off, and hopefully it will take the rest of the momentum throughout the whole season.   
 Q.  There's been a lot of talk about the depth on the defensive line.  What does that do for you and Jordan as linebackers?  
DAKOTA ALLEN: It definitely helps us tremendously.  Those guys after every game, I'm going to have to buy them a meal.  As long as they keep the offensive line off us and allow us to fly around and make plays.   
 Q.  Preston was telling us earlier how even though there are two-deeps, they really don't apply and there are a bunch of guys end andable on the D-Line, is that the case?  
DAKOTA ALLEN: Definitely.  Not only on the D-Line but as well as linebackers and defensive backs.  We are just excited about our depth, so everybody could be fresh and everybody can play their best ball.   
 Q.  Do you keep getting recognized after the last --  
DAKOTA ALLEN: Of course.  I try to go to class with a hoody on and my headphones in; I'm just trying to learn in class.  Yeah, that's every day, and just focused on winning a game.   
 Q.  There's been a lot of talk about Ole Miss's receiving core and justifiably so, but what do you see from the offensive line?  What challenges do they pose?  
DAKOTA ALLEN: The offensive line will definitely have some ballplayers.  I notice they get a lot of wash on down blocks.  Their guards are pretty athletic, too.  They are good at pulling and it's difficult going to be a test up front.  It's a test that we're happy to accept.   
 Q.  The six captains, what do you think that says about the leadership of the team, that there are six guys that can go out and be leaders?  
DAKOTA ALLEN: I think it says a lot about our maturity.  I feel like everybody knows where we want to be now.  So that comes with more leadership because everybody has the same mindset, if that makes sense.   
 Q.  You mentioned their offensive line.  What have you seen from their quarterback?  And I know their running back, they just announced their starter, a junior college guy, but their ability to run the ball, specifically the quarterback?  
DAKOTA ALLEN: Oh, definitely.  They have the ability to run and pass the ball.  Specifically, their quarterback, I feel like he's a great duel-threat quarterback.  He can make some plays in the air and on his feet.   
The running game is incredible, as well, as long as we stick to Coach Gibbs' scheme, I'm sure we'll be fine.   
 Q.  Do you like the morning practices better than the afternoon practices, now that that's kind of a new system you guys have started?  
DAKOTA ALLEN: I personally like it a lot better.  After the morning classes, then we have the rest of the day to do our academic work.  I feel like that's very important.  That's actually where I'm going after this.  I have to go home and do some online classes, but I really do like the morning practice.   
We're all fired up being back.  We've been training for ten months and it's finally here.  We're excited to just play together as a team.   
 Q.  How special is it to know that you're playing your first game as a senior, kind of close to home?  
DAKOTA ALLEN: It means everything.  I feel like my time here flew by and I try to tell the freshmen that every day, and look forward to just be my first game of the senior season, it's a surreal feeling, and we're just ready to get the season started and hopefully end it in a big way.   
 Q.  Tough to figure out the ticket situation?  
DAKOTA ALLEN: It's still in the process of getting more.  I have 16 right now, so if any of you have any tickets y'all would like to give, I'd be happy to take them.   
 Q.  What does the stadium mean to you, growing up close to it and playing some games there?  
DAKOTA ALLEN: Oh, definitely, I played there once.  That was against LSU in the Bowl game.   
I've been there to watch the Texans play and I just feel like it's a great atmosphere.  I feel like the guys are really loving it and we just can't wait.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT