WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2013
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. HAAS/F. Lopez
  4‑6, 6‑2, 7‑5, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   After losing the first set, how pleased were you that you were able to recover and win the match?  
TOMMY HAAS:   Yeah, obviously very pleased.   You know, I played one not such a good service game, the third game of the match, a couple double‑faults.   He came up with a couple good shots.   I got broken.   
I knew it's going to be tough to try to break his serve, especially in the beginning, first time playing a lefty in a while, especially on grass.   He's been playing well on grass last couple weeks, winning in Eastbourne.   It was tough to read his first serve throughout the first set anyway.   When the first serves are coming and placement, you're in trouble.  
So was a bit frustrated.   But obviously very pleased how I then started to pick up his serve throughout the match, throughout the rest of the match, tried to get a lot of balls in, which I believe I did.   Started serving better myself.   
Yeah, it was a terrific match, I thought.   A lot of good points.   Happy to have won it.   
   
 Q.   Were the conditions out there tricky at all?   
TOMMY HAAS:   Yeah, a little bit.   It seemed like it was a little bit dusty on top of sort of the brown, dead grass.   It was a little bit slippery to me in that situation at times.   
But, you know, only slipped once, which is not bad.   He did once, too.   I think we both are okay with that.   
   
 Q.   You were playing a guy in his 30s today.   You're in your 30s.   Why do you think that's happening now, a lot of men and women?  
TOMMY HAAS:   I don't know.   I don't know how many times I answer that question now.   
You know, I think a lot of people enjoy the sport.   A lot of people are smarter over the years of what to do in order to get in better shape.   You have a good team around you.   You can do a lot of stuff also nutrition‑wise.   
There's a lot of things.   If you still have the desire and the will to do well, you have a lot more experience and wisdom probably in your late 20s, early 30s that you might not have had when you were in your early 20s, so maybe that's a reason as well.   
You also have the possibilities to see good physios now, good doctors to maybe maintain the body better.   A lot of reasons why probably.   
   
 Q.   Monday is a highly anticipated day for fans because it's the entire fourth round, the only major that does that.   We'll see a lot of different faces as a result of all the upsets.   From a fan's perspective, how do you look at that situation?  
TOMMY HAAS:   Well, I'm looking at it from my point of view.   I'm looking at my next opponent, that I'm playing Djokovic again, which I'm really looking forward to.   I'm not really a fan this week.   But obviously I know what's going on.   
I don't know exactly the matchups right now off the top of my head.   You get to see a few different players that deserve to be there in some ways.   It's just the way it is.   We saw some upsets that we're not used to seeing.   That's tennis, that's sport.   
You know, might be nice for some fans to see some different faces, but I'm sure a lot of them are probably going to realize they miss some of the familiar faces.   It's sort of like a different situation.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT