US OPEN
September 3, 1999
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








USTA:  Questions for Tommy. 


Q.  After losing the third and fourth set, you were able to come back and take the fifth 6-1.  What happened?

TOMMY HAAS:  I took a little time out.  I was feeling a little bit something in my hip.  I don't know what it was exactly.  It wasn't really a pain, but something was there, kind of like a cramp.  I waited for the trainer.  I had some time to think it over.  He came and actually tightened it a little bit.  Then this thing, the cramp, kind of was stuck there.  I couldn't really move so well anymore.  I had to go for bigger shots because I didn't want to be too much in a rally.  Fortunately, most of the shots went in.  I took the early break.  I served well.  The cramp kind of went away.  It was good for me.

Q.  The cramp occurred during the beginning of the third set?

TOMMY HAAS:  No.  It was like in the beginning of the fifth, end of the fourth.  I didn't know what it was exactly.  It was like a little bit of a pain there.  I don't know if it was a strain or what it was.  That's why I asked for a trainer to come.

Q.  You seemed to be having trouble with your first serves during the third and fourth set.  Was your serve affected by the cramp?

TOMMY HAAS:  No.  Just probably maybe the toss was too low, my left arm was too low.  I don't know what it was.  I'm going to talk to my coaches about it and try to fix that for the next one. 

Q.  Can you derive some confidence coming through a tough match like this?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, obviously in the past sometimes I've had a little bit of trouble losing tight sets, tough time getting back into it.  I'm very proud of myself today.

Q.  Looking forward to playing Magnus, have you had experience playing him before and how do you feel about that?

TOMMY HAAS:  My next match is Arazi or Vicente.

Q.  I'll ask the same question then. 

TOMMY HAAS:  I've played both players before.  Against Arazi I had to default in Palm Springs at 5-All because of a back injury.  Vincente, I won in a tough three sets in Hamburg this year.  I'll have to see what happens. 

Q.  Your expectations?  Do you see yourself as a possible finalist here?

TOMMY HAAS:  I'm not going to say too much.  Just have to go match-by-match, see what happens on Sunday.  It's a new day.  The opponent is not there yet.  If I have a good day and play well, you never know. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT