WIMBLEDON
June 25, 2013
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 T. HAAS/D. Tursunov
  6‑3, 7‑5, 7‑5 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Congratulations on your win.   Just as one of the older men still left in the competition, how have you adapted your training regime to cope with the tournaments you've entered into?  
TOMMY HAAS:   I don't think it has anything to do with age.   You just sort of go do the same things:   you try to get your body in shape and stay mentally healthy.   
It's been a pretty long season to this point already.   Playing some good tennis.   You just try to adapt from the change to clay to grass and try to change your game up a little bit.   Fine tune it so you feel comfortable doing the right things on grass, because it's a little different.  
And then you hope to get a good start and try to win the matches that come your way.   Hopefully a couple.  
   
 Q.   I spoke to Date‑Krumm, and she is 42.   She said it was the recovery time that is the most crucial to her.   Is that the same with you?   The intensity may be the same, but the recovery time is more important.   
TOMMY HAAS:   That's probably one thing that gets a little bit tougher depending also how much you practice or train and how long the matches will go.   You can recover or can be more difficult to recover faster.  
But, again, you try to do everything you've learned in the past to maybe recover a little bit faster.   You have a physio with you 24/7 so you can do a lot to recover for your next match.   You just know what helps to you also recover faster.  
Sometimes, depending on how the matches go, it can be tougher than others.   
   
 Q.   Few years left in the tank yet?  
TOMMY HAAS:   I don't know.   I don't look that far yet.  
   
 Q.   I suppose with your injuries it's been difficult to look too far, hasn't it?   
TOMMY HAAS:   Yeah, injuries come and go.   Once you know that mentally you're done with the sport there is no coming back.   When you're done, you're done, I think and you know it.   
For now I feel like I can push and motivate myself, and obviously I have joyful moments out there.   That's what it's about.   I think when the switch turns off you know.   I don't know when that may be.   
I look forward to the rest of the season, and then probably going to continue playing another one next year and see what happens.   
   
 Q.   Michael Stich tipped you as one the players outside of the big four that can win this.   Is it possible for a man over 35 to win a Grand Slam in this era with the players that are around?  
TOMMY HAAS:   Look, it's going to be tough.   It's nice words to hear from a fellow countryman who obviously achieved many, many great things on the court.   It's nice to hear that also sort of getting that support from a fellow countryman.  
But it's very tough.   It's something I don't look forward to in my mind to really thinking that it might still be possible.   
At the same time, you got to have dreams and goals.   It's going to remain a goal for as long as I play this game.   If you don't have that, what's really the point of still playing?   
So, you know, I'm just going to go out there every match that I need to play and give it my best, try to win, and then we'll see how far that takes me.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT