U.S. OPEN
August 29, 2012
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







E. GULBIS/T. Haas
  3‑6, 4‑6, 6‑4, 7‑5, 6‑3

THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please. 

Q.   Very tough match against a talented guy.   Did you feel it slipping away in the fourth and fifth?
TOMMY HAAS:   No, I think I let it slip away a little bit in the third.   That 3‑2 game in the third, you know, it's going to stay with me for a little bit for sure.   Just got a little bit tight, I guess, a little bit nervous trying to consolidate that break.   Made a few bad errors that you can't allow yourself to happen.   Sort of gave him a chance to come back.   Needed to play some better tennis. 
Even in the fourth or the fifth, every time I did have break chances he came up with some great shots, just going for it, like not really thinking about it, which makes him very dangerous.   When his serve is on, like I think it was at times today, he's a very tough guy to beat. 

Q.   You've said that you feel like the game owes you a few years because of all the time you've been out.   How do you feel physically? 
TOMMY HAAS:   I guess the disappointing thing is when you lose a match you're always disappointed, no matter what.   But obviously at this stage it really hurts.   You know, I've had some great last four months.   The position I'm in right now, I don't think I would have ever thought to get back for it.   Just kind of hoped for it and tried to do everything to make that happen. 
To be seeded here and be in this position is fantastic.   You know, to go out in the first round is frustrating.   But the sad thing is really, too, even Wimbledon, if it's a best‑of‑three sets I win the match, even like today.   I end up losing it in five. 
Sure, it's tough when you are getting a little bit older, the recovery, even when you are quite fit.   Maybe one half step or just a half step might be missing.   You know, it's just not enough against these young, fit guys sometimes. 
You start playing tennis that you're not supposed to play, go for too many shots and you're not really playing percentage tennis, and that's how you can end up losing.

Q.   I remember when you were one of the young guys here.   It's hard to believe this is your 15th US Open.   More than any other man in the draw, how many more of these do you see yourself playing?
TOMMY HAAS:   You know what, I love this game.   Even days like today, this is part of the sport, even though I'm obviously very, very frustrated.   I'm going to be in a shitty mood for a couple days, that's for sure. 
You know, you look back, you look at some of the wins that you had and the feelings that it gives you, the positives, the negatives, and it's always a rollercoaster ride when you're in sports or competing. 
That's what you get to love about it, but it can also be brutal.   That's certainly one moment right now. 
But I've put myself in a position to pretty much have a full calendar year next year.   And why not? 

Q.   You seem to be having some problems at the end of the fifth.   Can you explain what was going on. 
TOMMY HAAS:   Just my legs were sort of tightening up a little bit, yeah. 

Q.   Obviously frustrating as far as the result goes, but can you talk about playing a five‑setter in that atmosphere, the crowd? 
TOMMY HAAS:   I mean, you know, it's always great.   You're playing one of the biggest stages in tennis.   This tournament obviously has a very special place in my heart.   Like you mentioned, 15 times where I couldn't play twice due to surgery, so it should have been 17. 
But it's a great event.   I tried my best.   Unfortunately it's an early exit.   But, you know, hopefully I can come back here next year and give it a better go. 

Q.   How much smarter do you think you are now as a player with your experience and how much does that count in this run you've had this year?
TOMMY HAAS:   Yeah, I mean, it does help at times depending on obviously who you play.   But it can help, and it helps to sort of be in a position where you can physically still do quite a bit. 
I didn't think I was going to get that body back into this kind of shape six to nine months ago.   So to be able to play and compete the way I have been gives me hope and fun to continue, you know, see what else I can do. 

Q.   Can you look ahead to the fall, what you're planning to play?
TOMMY HAAS:   I'm not sure yet.   I'm probably going to go to Asia, I guess, for the two big tournaments there.   I'm not sure exactly where I'm going to be in Europe, but... 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT