THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 3, 2017
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
R. BEMELMANS/T. Haas   
6-2, 3-6, 6-3, 7-5   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  A final match at Wimbledon.  How did it feel?  
TOMMY HAAS: Yeah, lots of emotions.  Of course never great to lose the first round.  But happy to have been back, happy to have been given another try, happy to be playing in front of my close family, my kids.   
You know, overall, didn't play the best of my ability, unfortunately.  Had a good rough opponent today.  He played well.  Didn't win the big points when it counted.  Had a few chances to win the fourth set with a couple set points.  Who knows what could have happened the fifth, I would have loved to have played one.   
Yeah, that's it.  Simple as that.   
 Q.  In terms of your great run a little while ago, how did it feel to go from presenting Federer in the awards ceremony with the trophy at Indian Wells to beating him?  What was that experience like?  
TOMMY HAAS: I mean, you know, I have been on the tour for so long, there is so many highs and lows obviously.  It's been a very interesting year for me.  Like I said, it took a lot of work and effort to get back to a certain stage for me to be come back out here and give it my best and be competitive.   
As a tournament director, it was a great experience.  I have had a lot of fun working in such a great environment with great people, just trying to make it an absolutely amazing event, which I think we have over there.  And we will just have many more years of trying to improve, if that's even possible.   
But, you know, from a friendly point of view, you know, presenting Roger, a close friend of mine, the trophy was great.   
And then obviously playing him again and, you know, getting a victory over him is also unbelievable, of course.  You know, it's just tough to realize the fact that your body is not cooperating anymore.  Worse than it was in the past in some ways.  Every morning you wake up you have to hope that everything is stable.   
Yesterday, unfortunately, the lower back tightened up a little bit so it was tough for me to move around today.  But happy to have somehow made it out on the court and just have to continue to fight that battle until I know it's finally done.  I know it's at the end of the year at some point and just try to continue the last ride.   
 Q.  Finally, Indian Wells is known for its upgrades.  Some have said it will be a focus on the grounds, improving the grounds next year.  Can you give us a preview what the prime upgrade will be next year?  
TOMMY HAAS: Yeah, I think it's mainly the grounds.  The best thing usually is for everybody to come in '18 and see it for themselves and hopefully have a big smile on their face once again.  We will leave it at that.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT