ROGERS CUP
July 22, 2008
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  T. HAAS/C. Moya
6-3, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. Were you surprised at how efficient you could get, I guess, rid of him? 
 TOMMY HAAS: Well, I don't know the exact years that it's been sense I played Carlos. We played quite a few times, but that was a long time ago. 
 He knows my game and I know his game. I know he was coming from Europe and that he was playing on clay a little bit, so maybe I have a little bit of an advantage on hard court. 
 But I think I served pretty good, especially in the first set. I played aggressive when I had to, so I was pretty happy with my performance. 

 Q. Is your shoulder fully 100% healthy?
 TOMMY HAAS: That'll never be the case anymore unfortunately, but it's good to still play this game, which is great. You know, when you have three shoulder surgeries it's pretty damaged.
 But it's feeling good. It's good enough to play, so I'm happy about that.

 Q. Which shoulder is that?
 TOMMY HAAS: The one that I need. Yeah. You've been around for a while in tennis, huh? 

 Q. Very impressive service game today. You actually only surrendered six points on serve all match. Is that something that you've been working on lately?
 TOMMY HAAS: Well, it's always something that you hope to do. I think if you have good service games it puts more pressure on your opponent right away and you can try to go for more when you're having a good feeling about your serve. 
 Seems like if you place your serve well and get a lot of first serves in you have a chance to dictate play, and it's very important in hard court.

 Q. But it's not specifically something you've worked on?
 TOMMY HAAS: Well, you know, there's many things that you work on. You want to obviously try to have a good first serve percentage if possible, keep the unforced errors down and try to dictate play and come in when you have a chance. These are all things you want to try to do, but doesn't always go the way you want, unfortunately. Today overall I'm pretty pleased.

 Q. What's the recipe for keeping the shoulder as good as possible?
 TOMMY HAAS: A lot of praying, and then you have to do a lot of rehab and just, yeah, try to maintain it. 
 As soon as you know or you feel that there's something going on again you got to take a few days or a week off and just give it its rest. 
 Unfortunately I had to have another surgery end of last year, which was really tough because I had two great years and felt like I was playing some of the best tennis of my career. 
 It's been a setback and a struggle to come back to try to feel like I'm 100% with the shoulder. Obviously that's never going to happen again, but it's as close as it gets to the place where I can play tournaments, again then I'm happy. That's what I'm trying to do right now.

 Q. What happened at Indian Wells this year when you're playing so well and you feel something and you're forced to stop?
 TOMMY HAAS: Actually, that wasn't my shoulder unfortunately. I was playing a late-night match, and that night after I played Andy Murray just had a couple back to back matches that were really long and tough. My body just got really sick and I just drained. Maybe through the air conditioning where I was sitting that night as well at dinner just kind of got in my neck and I was finished. I couldn't do anything for like a week.

 Q. Talk about Davydenko next. You've had really close matches with him. 
 TOMMY HAAS: Yeah, Davydenko is always a pretty consistent, good player pretty much on any surface except grass, I would say. Stands at the baseline, moves well, and has great groundstrokes where he dictates a lot of play. 
 You know, we've had a couple of good battles, but he definitely has the upper hand against me. I think he leads the series 4-1. Looking forward to it. Going to try to play my best match and revenge myself for the last match I lost against him.

 Q. What makes you continue to play not only this tournament but on the tour if you're not 100%? 
 TOMMY HAAS: Because I feel like -- I'm just talking about my shoulder in general. If the shoulder is good enough where I can play, where I feel like I can still play some very good tennis and play with a big boys, and it's because I love the sport as well. 
 This is what I was always wanting to do. Basically I'm living my dream, and I'd like to continue that as long as I can. It's going to take a lot to stop it. If the shoulder says at one stage says there's no more I'll have to deal with that. It's already tried it three times and I'm still here, so it's still pretty good. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT