WIMBLEDON
June 28, 2008
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  A. MURRAY/T. Haas  
6-4, 6-7, 6-3, 6-2  
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions for Tommy.   
  
  Q. Did you feel after the second set maybe Andy was struggling? His serve seemed to go.   
 TOMMY HAAS: Yeah, I mean, it was very important for me to win the second set obviously. Didn't feel like I started off great myself. Took me a while to kind of get used to, yeah, Centre Court, the conditions a little bit.   
 I was down a set and a break. Fought back. Started to play a much better tennis, more aggressive.   
 You know, in the third set, I think at 1-All, I don't know if I had one or two break chances. He came up with the goods to hold serve there, and then I got a bad break. You know, he started serving really well again to hold in the third.   
 I think at 2-All in the fourth he really just played some unbelievable shots and deserved to win.   
  
  Q. How do you rate his chances in the rest of the competition?  
 TOMMY HAAS: I don't know. I mean, you know, in tennis it's tough to say. It's like everybody has a different game, different type of style. Depending on the situation, on the conditions and stuff, so it's tough.   
 Obviously, he's going to be tough to beat if he's playing the way he is, but he's still got a long way to go.   
  
  Q. What was it like playing out there?  
 TOMMY HAAS: I mean, it's great. You know, it's obviously one of the nicest center courts for us in the game with so much history. So, you know, you play that through your mind.   
 Obviously it's an honor to be on that court competing, trying to win. Crowd's great, so it was fun.   
  
  Q. Do you feel his game has developed, is still developing?  
 TOMMY HAAS: No, not really. I mean, you know, I think he plays a type of game that is quite unpredictable at times. He does have a very good first serve, which I think some people underrate. It's very fast. If he places it well it's very tough to get to.   
 I think he needs to work on the second serve, to be honest. I mean, I don't know I he used it enough. With a little bit of the windy conditions and the grass, it kind of makes it a little bit tougher to attack that I think here.   
 But overall he moves well and is a good counter-puncher. If he's going to make shots like he did at the end of the fourth set he's going to be a contender, but it's very tough to ask for to do that day in and day out.   
 You know, overall I think he plays a game that's tough to beat, but I don't think it's changed much.   
  
  Q. Were you surprised or impressed by his temperament? He kept calm when it got tough.   
 TOMMY HAAS: I wasn't paying too much attention about him really. I'm out there trying to win, trying to find my game. A few points here and there didn't go my way, and that's why I lost today. That's unfortunate, but that's the way tennis goes. You just have to accept it.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT