WIMBLEDON
June 29, 2007
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   THE MODERATOR:  Questions for Tommy.   
  
  Q.  Did you realize the miles per hour of his serve today was 124 to 142?   
 TOMMY HAAS:  I only noticed it once.  I actually won the point.  I returned the serve.  I saw that he clocked it at 140.   
 But, yeah, he did surprise me a little bit how consistent he did serve at a range of low 130s, even the second serve was quite up there as well.   
 In the first set, it really I think surprised me as well.  He's got a really powerful game also from the baseline.  If he makes those big first serves, you just kind of get it back.  You have to be so alert and move so quick to even have a chance in the point.   
 I felt like I got a good read on his serve throughout the match and that was very important.   
  
  Q.  All the buildup for the French and Wimbledon has been Federer, Nadal.  Do you think this is an inspiration for good players like yourself to show there are more than two players in the world?   
 TOMMY HAAS:  Well, every tennis fan knows that there are more than just Federer, Nadal, a lot of other personalities out there.  You have to give it up to Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer for the past years for how consistent they've been playing and how well they've been doing.   
 Look at the results Rafael Nadal has been having on clay, which is quite phenomenal.  Roger, obviously the last three years his statistics have been quite amazing as well, so it's no wonder we all talk about it.   
 Each one of us out there is trying to do the best they can.  Every once in a while a couple people come along that are that inch better than the others.  You know, we're happy -- well, I'm happy to be in the position I am again right now, thinking that if Roger would go through and beat Marat Safin, giving myself another opportunity to have a chance against the best player in the world, and I'll give it my best.   
  
  Q.  Do you believe you do have a shot?   
 TOMMY HAAS:  Oh, yeah, definitely.  I mean, we've had some good battles the last couple times we played.  I feel like if my game is going well, if I can serve well, use my chances when I get some, I definitely have a chance.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT