AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 21, 2007
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   THE MODERATOR:  First question, please. 

 Q.  Very happy to get through in three? 
 TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, definitely.  You know, never easy to play a German colleague, Davis Cup guy, kind of a friend off the court.  You go out there, you try to just mind your business and do what you have to do. 
 Got off to a good start.  Think I had 5-3 to serve for the first set.  Didn't do it.  Lost a little concentration.  Played a really good tiebreak again, which I think was the key to get the first set into your own pocket.  Then from then on, starting off with a break early in both the other sets, kind of helped me to keep the momentum going. 

 Q.  Tough when you kind of know each other's game? 
 TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah.  I think it doesn't make it easy.  But at the same time we know each other's game so we know what to expect.  You know what you try to do.  I just try to do it better than the other person. 
 Luckily for me I, you know, won those big points at times, through to the next round. 

 Q.  Word on David? 
 TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, I mean, saw the matches from him before.  Quite amazing that he is into the fourth round.  But that's what he does well.  He's a competitor. 
 It's going to be tough.  I like his style of play.  I'm going to go out there and have to play my game obviously and be aggressive.  Should be a good match. 

 Q.  You've been on the court for about five hours this time.  David has been on for about nine hours.  Do you think that extra freshness is going to be a help for you? 
 TOMMY HAAS:  At the end of the day you can do a lot of calculations, wonder how many hours this guy has been on the court or off the court.  You can also calculate I'm not going to get a day of rest, I'm going to play again tomorrow.  I was hanging around all day yesterday nine hours watching matches.  That's also tiring. 
 At the end of the day, you got to go out there tomorrow, do what you got to do.  That's why we're here.  You know, do our best and try to win the big points and try to get a momentum going and fight till the end. 

 Q.  Is the Australian Open a favorite tournament for you? 
 TOMMY HAAS:  It's one of my favorite tournaments, definitely.  Everything about this tournament, I think it's very tough to beat.  People are nice.  It's great.  Yeah, it's one of my favorite tournaments. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT