WESTERN AND SOUTHERN FINANCIAL GROUP MASTERS
August 16, 2005
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please.


Q.  You struggled with his serve today.  What was he doing?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, he was serving pretty well.  I don't really think I struggled with it too much.  But once he got the first serves in, they were pretty good placed. And, you know, then after that he tries to control the point, which he does quite well.


Q.  Can you just go over the third set.  When did you feel things kind of slipping away for you?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, well, first of all, I think that was a bad line call to get me down 15-30.  Then obviously the rain delay came.  And, you know, it's tough coming back after 15-30, and I missed the easy forehand which got me down right away mentally a little bit.  And, you know, lost that game. Had a breakpoint to come back and didn't win those points, so that's another tough thing to try to work out with your mind. And, you know, just a few easy mistakes here and there, and he just took advantage of it and had a couple of good points.  And, you know, set went away pretty quickly unfortunately.


Q.  What did you do during the rain delay, the first one and also the second one that interrupted your match?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, first one you just kind of wait around, try to get ready, see when it stops.  You know, just waiting to go out and play. Second one, you just kind of try to stay loose, take a shower or something, try to refresh yourself and try to go out there, which I did really well.


Q.  The US Open is right around the corner.  How disappointing is it that you can't get a few more matches in here?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, it's definitely disappointing.  It's something -- you know, going out there and losing, it's tough to digest all the time.  You know, I'm just trying to, like you said, trying to get a few matches in to feel comfortable going out to the Open, which is obviously the main big last event and you want to try to, you know, peak at that time. So, you know, try to get a few matches in next week in New Haven hopefully, and then see what happens at the Open.


Q.  What do you like in your game right now?  What are you concerned with?  What do you want to work on?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, I'm just trying to cut down the unforced errors.  Overall, I think, you know, just trying to get a few first serves percentage in. I'm pretty pleased with the way I'm playing.  I just can't seem to convert my chances at the moment.  You know, haven't played any matches really since Halle.  Unfortunately, I twisted my ankle pretty bad in Wimbledon, which was unlucky, and haven't been able to play.  After those injuries I got sick so I couldn't play Montreal.  So it's a lot of bad luck following me a little bit, but, you know, you got to try and get through it. Like I said, the main important thing for me is the Open.


Q.  How do you stay positive?  You're trying to practice for a match and trip over a ball, you get sick.  How do you manage to stay positive?

TOMMY HAAS:  You got to try to stay positive.  I mean, you know, I had a lot of good times in my tennis career as well so, you know, you try to take the bad.  Some have it more; some don't have it as much. But, you know, overall, I know that, you know, every day that I practice I'm getting better, and just trying to stay in shape.  Like I said, the Open is for me the most important thing.  Try to be fit and ready for that.


Q.  Where are you health-wise right now?  How do you feel?  What percentage are you, ankle and everything else?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, it's pretty good.  You know, it takes about six weeks for a torn ligament in your ankle to heal.  I've had about seven and a half now, so it should be fine. Just trying to, yeah, play some matches.  That's really what I need.  So unfortunately I couldn't have more here.  See what happens, like I said, next week.


Q.  Not that long ago you were right on the verge of No. 1 in the world.  How close do you think you are to getting back to that real elite level on the tour?

TOMMY HAAS:  Right now, you know, like I said, I think once you get a few matches in, maybe win a tournament again and try to get some confidence and then try to keep that up, try and stay in shape without -- staying healthy, I think I can find that level pretty quick, you know.  To be honest, if I get back there where I once was, in the Top 5, that's going to be tough.  That means you're going to have to get really far in the Grand Slams, which is my ultimate goal, but, you know... My main goal really is just trying to stay healthy again and trying to get some matches, try to win a title - doesn't matter where.


Q.  What about Paul-Henri?  He's obviously making quite a statement this summer.  Talk about his game.  What makes him so difficult to play against?

TOMMY HAAS:  He's a streaky player.  He has weeks where he has a lot of trouble trying to win a round, and then he comes out like last week and is very dangerous almost competing for a title in Montreal. And, you know, he's got a good game.  When he has confidence, you know, he's pretty hot.  He's difficult to play.  A lot of spin.  Can dominate points.  Like when he's serving like that, he, you know, makes it even more dangerous.  So he's been playing pretty good tennis.


Q.  You committed pretty early to New Haven.  What was it about that tournament?  Did you just like the chance to play right before the Open?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, I liked that and, you know, right after Wimbledon, you know, when I twisted my ankle earlier, I felt like I didn't know when I was going to come back.  It was more -- I was surprised myself that I was actually playing the test, to test my ankle.  Wasn't really ready tennis-wise, but I played there anyway trying to defend my title from last year, and turned out to be pretty good. But, you know, I didn't know if I was going to start in Montreal, even here, my first tournament after my ankle.  But I had good rehab, four weeks in Munich, Germany. That's why I committed to it, just because where I'm at right now, I knew I was going to need some matches.  So that's the reason.


Q.  Probably need more now than ever, I would think?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, but, you know, the world is full of surprises.  You never know.  Maybe if you don't get any matches in, you might, you know -- I wouldn't mind getting in a couple matches at the Open; that's the most important.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT