US OPEN
September 9, 2004
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  First question. 


Q.  That must have been a very disappointing performance for you. 

TOMMY HAAS:  In what way? 

Q.  Well, it's a straight-sets loss. 

TOMMY HAAS:  I take a look at it differently, actually, a little bit.  You know, unfortunately, there's not much you can do about Mother Nature.  But obviously it's very tough to perform against Lleyton Hewitt as it is, on a regular type of day.  You know, you have to come up with the best of your game in order to beat him, which I know is possible.  And then, you know, you're fighting against something totally different where, you know, where it's tough to, you know -- not even focusing on your game, but trying to actually just keep the ball in play. You know, it's unfortunate.  It happens.  I just have to look at this as a great tournament and as a great step back and, you know, move forward.

Q.  In addition to the wind, were the planes bothering you as well, the planes overhead? 

TOMMY HAAS:  No.  That was not really a problem, no. 

Q.  You think those conditions favored Hewitt more?

TOMMY HAAS:  Well, yeah.  Like I said, yeah, I think so.  I mean, he's like a wall, and I think he played terrific tennis today.  Any time I did make a first serve or change up my serve, you know, he just didn't make any unforced errors.  Returned really, really well.  You know, when I tried to come in, put some pressure on him in the early points in the beginning of the match, he made great passing shots.  That kind of made me a little bit uncomfortable coming in.  You know, all the credit to him to playing really well today.

Q.  It's obviously hard to gauge his sort of form in those conditions, but do you have an opinion on Roddick possibly against Hewitt?

TOMMY HAAS:  Well, I think it depends on the conditions.  I mean, you know, when you play somebody in these kind of conditions, maybe like Roddick, maybe it helps because he will not get a great rhythm on his serve. But once the wind slows down, I think, you know, Roddick has a very powerful game.  And, you know, if he's on fire and he's been playing really great, I think he can probably overpower Hewitt.  But he's a great competitor, so should be an interesting match.

Q.  When you saw the conditions, did you in your own mind think, "This is going to be a tough day for me, because it's hard to go for shots"? 

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, definitely.  I mean, you know, you try to tell yourself that the wind is your friend or you love playing in the wind and, you know, the real thing is that, you know, it's really tough conditions.  But it is, it's for both of us. But like I said, I think, you know, Hewitt has a different game than I do, and I think his game is better in those kind of conditions than mine.


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT