US OPEN
September 2, 2001
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 
 

Q.  You said at the Hamlet the way you improve yourself is to perform well in the majors, and the way you do that is to play at a consistently high level.  Do you feel you're doing that here, that you carried over from the Hamlet into this tournament?

TOMMY HAAS:  So far I think so definitely.  I've been playing solid tennis.  I'm really happy of how I'm playing, of how I kept the momentum going.  Like I said, for me to win the Hamlet was very important.  Second title of the year.  I've never done that before, winning two titles the same year.  Defeating Pete was a big step for me.  Didn't have much time to really enjoy the victory at all because the next day coming here, preparing for this big tournament, trying to do well.  Just try to continue.  Yeah, my tennis has been pretty much the same level.

Q.  Do you think it's as high a level as it's ever been?

TOMMY HAAS:  You could say that. 

Q.  Would you say it?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah.

Q.  Is it all aspects of your game, everything has come together, serve, groundstrokes?

TOMMY HAAS:  Pretty much.  Pretty much.  I still think I can learn much more and do better of coming in after the ball towards the net, serve and volley even more.  But I still hesitate sometimes.  I should maybe practice that more off court.  Otherwise, everything is going the way I want to.  Sometimes on breakpoints, maybe I'm not playing the way I wanted to.  Maybe just too defensive, be more aggressive on those shots.  Other than that, I'm very pleased so far. 

Q.  I think I'm right in saying you play Hewitt next.  Record is pretty even?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah. 

Q.  Can you tell us perhaps what you think might decide the Round of 16 match?

TOMMY HAAS:  It should be a good match.  Obviously, we've had some good battles before, some tough matches.  I played him twice in Australia in January.  I beat him in Adelaide.  I lost to him at the Australian Open.  You know, we know each other's games pretty well.  We both know what to do to win.  The better guy on that day is going to win, for sure. 

Q.  Do you especially like to beat another good young player?  There's obviously a good group of any number of good young players from around the world.  Do you especially like to win those matches yourself?

TOMMY HAAS:  I don't really think of the age or if they're younger than me really.  You know, if you get to the Round of 16, the next thing you really think about is trying to reach the quarters.  Playing good tennis that match.  Doesn't really matter who's on the other side.  Just try to do your best and try to win, that's all I'm going to think about. 

Q.  Are you personally a little bit disappointed with your Grand Slam record overall?

TOMMY HAAS:  This year, yeah, definitely.  I mean, like I said, lost the second round at the Australian Open to Lleyton.  Had a lot of chances to win the first set there.  I was up in every set actually.  Couldn't close it out.  Obviously, at the French Open, played against a player, Dupuis, who was playing extremely well that day.  Never found my rhythm.  Wimbledon, I had sort of a letdown in the first round, having to default without actually having an injury, just being down mentally, not knowing where to hit the ball next.  This is actually the best success this year in Grand Slams.  I wanted to do really well here.  So far I'm playing well, doing well.  Let's see what happens next.

Q.  Did that Melbourne match give you any ideas about how to play this match?

TOMMY HAAS:  Definitely.

Q.  Would you like to tell us about them?

TOMMY HAAS:  No.  It's no secret really. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT