WIMBLEDON
July 1, 2013
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/T. Haas
  6‑1, 6‑4, 7‑6 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   You played him twice on grass before, and he said he wasn't really comfortable to play on this surface.   What do you think was the difference today compared to the other times?  
TOMMY HAAS:   Well, I mean, you look back a little bit sometimes.   Obviously it was a while ago when we played here four years ago.   Different scenario now a little bit.   
What was the difference today?   I think, you know, unfortunately didn't get off to a great start.   I struggled a little bit in the beginning finding my rhythm, and I think he saw the ball pretty good.   Didn't get any free points on my serve.  
You know, I knew the first set was sort of slipping out of my control, and I was already towards the end of it trying to focus on the second and trying to mentally prepare myself for that one.   
Got off to a good start breaking his serve.   Everything was the way it needed to be.   And at 4‑3, it was one of those games again that was very, very important.   Got down to Love‑40 with I think three bad unforced errors.   Came back to deuce and a couple of long rallies that, you know, if they go any other way maybe it's a little different.   You know, if I maybe get the second set somehow.   
Then he played some great tennis to break me for the set.   You know, third set I sort of felt like, you know, it was, you know, playing much better.   I thought the long rallies could have gone either way.   But I wasn't really happy with the way I was trying to come forward.   
I don't know what it was, but I felt like, you know, it was sort of slow out there or I just didn't ‑‑or he's just too quick where I felt like he has too much time to maybe really pass me.   I didn't play aggressive enough, and that sort of is something I'll have to look at again.  
   
 Q.   Seems like you really enjoy the tennis after your comeback.   Do you feel that it gives you additional strength to continue your career?  
TOMMY HAAS:   Well, yeah.   I mean, it's been great.   You know, I have been playing some great tennis, you know, for over a year.   You know, the ranking shows that.   You know, it's obviously a great wave that I'm riding right now at this time of my career.  
I'll try to enjoy it as long as I can, you know.   A lot depends obviously physically how you're doing and mentally how much you're willing to keep going.   Because it's, you know, it's no joke trying to be professional tennis player, or any professional athlete for that matter.   You really have to put in the hard yards.   As long as I'm willing to continue to do that, I'd love to continue.  
   
 Q.   You played many great players through the years.   Can you talk about the way Djokovic is returning the serve?  
TOMMY HAAS:   Yeah, extremely well.   I mean, yeah, he's definitely one of those guys that when he sees the ball early on your serve, you know, he gets most of the balls back and deep.   He seems to be in a lot of rallies.   He doesn't really give you any free points, or very seldom, and even on grass, you know, where you try to maybe expect to get a few more free points.   
Did I serve unbelievable today?   Probably not.   But still, even when you place it well with the flexibility and strength that he has in the corners, it's really impressive.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT