TMS - THE ERICSSON OPEN
March 27, 2001
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Tommy withdrew from today's match against Agassi due to a left foot sprain that occurred in the Hrbaty match yesterday. Questions for Tommy.


Q.  What did the doctor say about the seriousness of the injury, Tom?

TOMMY HAAS: I haven't taken X-rays yet.  I'm going to take them later on this evening then doctors are coming at one o'clock, so I don't really know what exactly is the problem.  All I know is that I have a lot of pain and I can barely walk straight and I just try to hit a few balls and it's not worth it to play.


Q.  At what point in the match did it happen?

TOMMY HAAS: Actually happened in the tiebreak at 2-1, I think, for Hrbaty that I moved for a ball and I felt a little pop going there and nothing serious.  And the shoes that I was wearing, I've been switching back and forth with some shoes, they were a little bit soft, didn't have the good protection there at the moment.  I just called out the trainer because I wanted to make sure that nothing is really bad.  We taped it up a little bit and it was fine for the next couple of sets.  It was fine until yesterday afternoon, six, seven o'clock before I went to dinner.  I started feeling pain, then it swelled up a little bit.  I thought with some good sleep, good rest I won't feel anything in the morning, but it's gotten worse. So... That's bad luck for me.


Q.  Have you and Harold found a good fit together? Will you continue to work together?

TOMMY HAAS:  Yeah, we haven't spoken about it yet, but I like him a lot.  It's been good, you know, he's  -- he knows about tennis, a lot of things.  He was a player himself.  I think he can help me a lot.


Q.  So it would be your desire to continue working with him?

TOMMY HAAS: Yeah, we'll see.  I'm going to talk with Harold about that after the summer.


Q.  If you did, would you be moving over to this side of the state?

TOMMY HAAS: Those are all things we have to discuss and think about. 


Q.  Why have you been trying different shoes? Is it different brands or different styles?

TOMMY HAAS: No, because the shoes I'm wearing feel a little bit heavy to me.  That's why I went back to the other one and try to use those.  I feel like I'm a little bit quicker on those shoes.  Those were the ones that actually ended up giving me the problem.  Got a little bit unlucky, bad break.  That's just the way it is.


Q.  At this point if it does work out with Harold, would you need him to travel full-time with you? Would that be the ideal arrangement?

TOMMY HAAS: Yeah, like I said, I don't know about that too much yet.  It's a thing that we have to discuss between me and Harold and see how often he can travel with me, to which tournaments, then we have to decide. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT