US OPEN
August 31, 2000
Tommy Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MODERATOR: Questions. 

Q. How disappointed are you? 

TOMMY HAAS: I told you before I was injured quite awhile. I didn't expect too much for
this tournament for me. Just going out there and try my best. Obviously on a hot day like
this you have to be physically fit. I'm far away from it. Obviously the first set was very
important. I think Rainer played bigger points better than me today, served extremely
well, played a good match. It was extremely tough for me to give him a tough time. 

Q. Sound like a silly question. Does it ease the disappointment that you were beaten by
a countryman?

TOMMY HAAS: No, you don't really think about it too much when you go out on the court.
You go out and try to win. Doesn't matter who you play in my eyes. Obviously it's good for
Germany that we have another guy in the third round. I think he has a chance to go farther
and play Pete in the Round of 16. Like I said, I think everybody plays for himself, tries
to do the best he can. Today Rainer played well and beat me. 

Q. What do you need to do right now to play your best tennis? Is it physical injury?

TOMMY HAAS: Well, I've been injured on and off the whole year. I had some things going
on with coaches. I didn't really have a steady year like I did the years before. I just
need to get back on track and get in top shape. Most likely I'm getting a physical trainer
after the Olympics, try to go from there. If I'm not a hundred percent fit, my game is not
there where it can be. That is pretty up there. The next thing for me is to get back in
shape, play more tournaments, get some matches. It's totally different than practice. Just
wait and hope for a good indoor season.

Q. The fact that there is an Olympics a few weeks down the road, you can shift your
focus onto that?

TOMMY HAAS: Obviously it's shifted on that. I'm not a hundred percent fit. It's kind of
tough, tough travel. When you're not feeling a hundred percent, you don't have confidence.
It's kind of maybe your second guess if you should go or not. Obviously it is the
Olympics, you play for your country. It's a great deal. Maybe I don't have the opportunity
to go in four years or in eight. I'll probably end up going. It's going to be tough
decision to make. 

End of FastScripts….            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT