ALL STAR GAME
July 11, 1990
Andres Galarraga
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q. Congratulations on playing. How did you like your performance? How did you like the
crowd?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Why, thank you. Probably no words to explain how happy, how excited I
am feeling today. That's a great moment in my career in baseball -- walk on the field with
my kids, and the ovation they gave to me, my fans here in Atlanta. That's a really special
moment. I'm so excited, so happy right now.

Q. Do you have any kind of nerves today? Just waiting for the game to get here... Were
you nervous at all?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Not nervous. Excited. I can't wait for the game to start, to see the
reaction, to see what happens, to see how everything happens. And as soon as I go on to
the field, I'm feeling kind of nervous, but I think it's more excited, something special
happen, like a little kid going on to the field. Soon I go to home plate, hit the ball
hard. Getting my first hit today in the All-Star Games, make it more special, more -- much
better this day for me.

Q. Where does this rank in all your achievements in baseball? Where does today fit in,
in your career? Where does today rank in your career as far as memories, as far as great
days for you?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: This day is one of the best probably, the Opening Day here in Atlanta
is probably one of the best days in my career. Today is more special to be in this group.
But having cancer last year, coming back to play baseball, to come and make this thing, I
mean, it can be something better today to be with this team, to play this game today. To
get my first hit, that makes it more special, this day, for me.

Q. What will be your favorite memory of the last two days? What has been the highlight
of the last two days for you?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: The last two days, the best... I don't know. I think every moment of
the last two days, that's really special. It is probably getting my hit today in the
All-Star Game.

Q. You seem to be America's new hero. Do you feel like you're a hero?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Well, kind of in the way -- probably God send the cancer to me to
help a lot of people to stay positive, to play, to be more strong, to fight for life. In
that situation, I think, I'm helping a lot of people to be more strong. I know I've been
helping people, because I've been receiving a lot of letters, phone calls. A lot of people
come to me and say they appreciate what I've been doing so far, to come back and play
baseball after that. If it's not "hero," I don't know what's another word. I
feel like I'm helping people; that's more important for me.

Q. Did you watch the All-Star Game last year?

ANDRES GALARRAGA: Yes, I watched at home. It's a bit different to be watching it at
home sick and playing today. And believe it or not, that helped me to be more strong, to
come back to play baseball again, because I love this game so much. And probably I know in
that last year, I not even think I would be here today, to come back to play baseball, to
be in the Opening Day line-up for Atlanta, just the way I had to keep working hard.

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT