CAPITAL ONE ORANGE BOWL: FLORIDA STATE VS MICHIGAN
December 28, 2016
Jourdan Lewis
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Is that a unique experience?
JOURDAN LEWIS: If you say so.  Yeah, I guess.  Yeah.
Q. In terms of this week and what your role has been in terms of a senior, trying to get guys to maintain that focus and stuff, is that something that you've had to negotiate here?  Have you tried to --
JOURDAN LEWIS: Uh-uh, no, Coach Harbaugh does a pretty good job containing everybody -- well, keeping everybody focused, but everybody seems locked in.  If you look at the practices, we've had a few good practices down here, and just trying to go and expand on those.  But as far as focusing, everybody is pretty much on the same note, on the same key, and getting the job done in practice.
Q. Why do you think that is?  Do you think it's because a lot of guys know this is their last game?
JOURDAN LEWIS: I think that's just what we're used to.  We've been working so hard for so long, even in bowl preparation in Ann Arbor.  We just came down here and thought about it the same way, just come down here and prepare.
Q. Last year having so much success in that game, all work, no play, how much does that --
JOURDAN LEWIS: Obviously Coach thinks it works well.  It worked last year, so we can't think anything will be different this year.  If we prepare our hardest the way we prepared last year, I'm sure we'll be excited about the outcome.
Q. After the bowl are you going to the Senior Bowl?
JOURDAN LEWIS: Yeah, but I haven't accepted the invite yet, but I'll be --
Q. You plan on doing it for sure?
JOURDAN LEWIS: No, I'm going, I just haven't got the chance to actually get the paper --
Q. What's this month been like for you?
JOURDAN LEWIS: I mean, it's the same thing, especially before the game.  You've just got to go out there and prepare for the game, and that's your last one, that's your last opportunity as a college player.  But yeah, just before the game, just got to prepare, can't think about the future, just go out there and execute with your teammates.
Q. Are there things about their offense that we don't --
JOURDAN LEWIS: They have explosive athletes.  On the outside, too, it's not just Dalvin Cook.  They have great athletes on the outside, receivers, slots, and they have other running backs that can run the ball.  But they're definitely an athletic team.  I'm excited to see them.
Q. Their quarterback has had moments when he's thrown for a lot of yards and then he's had games where not as much.  Is there something different you've seen from him throughout the year?
JOURDAN LEWIS: When we seen him he was consistent.  He'd get knocked down sometimes, but as a freshman quarterback he does pretty good.  He has some ploys back there.  He can throw the ball definitely.  He has an arm, he has the talent to be a great quarterback.  I guess that's just -- I guess it's just maturing and going along with the season, but we broke down game film from like a four-game streak, but those four games we seen, he's done pretty good.
Q. He runs a little bit, too?
JOURDAN LEWIS: Yeah, they've got a few leads for him, a few plays for him to run, but he's definitely a thrower type.
Q. Colorado, is that kind of the comparison?
JOURDAN LEWIS: I don't think he does that much running because they have Dalvin back there, but he definitely can get out there and use his legs if he has to.
Q. Who are their young guys that you've really seen so far?
JOURDAN LEWIS: You know, all of those guys, Josh Metellus, Lavert Hill, David Long, Keith Washington, Brandon Watson, all those guys, especially on the defensive end, they've come along a great deal.  It's really exciting to see those guys mature and go out there and practice the way they are at a high level.  I'm just excited to see those guys play.  Probably a little bit this game and next year.
Q. How have you seen Lavert particularly progress, and does that remind you a lot of yourself?
JOURDAN LEWIS: I mean, yeah, he's just thinking in the game more, not just relying on his talents athletically, but just the mental aspect of the game, what he has to do, his assignments, and just knowing the feel of the game and knowing where to be when he needs to be there.  I'm just excited, especially for that back end, to see what those guys can do, and Khaleke Hudson, he's coming along a great deal, just to see what that back end can do in that secondary, it's really exciting.
Q. Are you concerned about the turnover next year?
JOURDAN LEWIS: Not really.  If you look at Ohio State, they didn't have too many returning starters, but if you think about it, they had just as much talent back there in that secondary, and we have some receivers.  If you talk about the offensive side of the ball, those guys can get it done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT