ABU DHABI HSBC CHAMPIONSHIP
January 18, 2020
Francesco Laporta
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  The round started slowly, 1-over par through seven holes, but broke 70. Pleased with your day's work?  
FRANCESCO LAPORTA: I was a bit nervous on the first tee box. Made a bad mistake on 2. So I was trying to hit it in the middle of the fairway for the second shot and pulled it, so I made a bogey there. Then I start to play some good golf and made one birdie coming out, so front nine wasn't bad and played solid on the back nine.   
 Q.  How different a player do you feel now from when you were in Morocco four years ago?  
FRANCESCO LAPORTA: A different player, I was younger four years ago. I was coming from a bad year and then I went to Tour School and was fantastic to get my card, but I wasn't ready. I feel more ready now and just try to enjoy my game.   
 Q.  How excited about the opportunity tomorrow?  
FRANCESCO LAPORTA: Yeah, it would be just a dream. I just want to think about my score and my game. Trying not to see the leaderboard, it's not going to be easy. There's going to be leaderboards everywhere. I think it's going to be a good day tomorrow.   
 Q.  Moving day, how would you summarize today?  
FRANCESCO LAPORTA: I was a bit nervous like two or three holes and then I started to play some golf and made three birdies the back nine.   
 Q.  Looked like you were going left off the tee?  
FRANCESCO LAPORTA: My driver was very bad. I hit only like four fairways today. Made good recoveries from the bunker, from the rough. So got to straighten the driver tomorrow.   
 Q.  Things improved as the day went on, incredible shot at 16, I think blinded by the sun. Tell us about that?  
FRANCESCO LAPORTA: Yeah, actually, I hit the ball pretty straight but then I lost it in the sun. People clapping, I thought, okay, must be good, and when I got to the green it was very close.   
 Q.  And the long putt on 17, this is all helping to you get into a better spot for tomorrow?  
FRANCESCO LAPORTA: Yeah, the long putt on 17 was amazing. I made so many putts yesterday, and my putting was pretty good also today. I made some good pars and hopes of another good Sunday on the greens.   
 Q.  Just to touch on your first answer, you said you feel nervous. How is that going to play tomorrow? Of course you're no stranger to the winner's circle, but this is obviously The European Tour, Rolex Series Event. Do you feel the last nine holes, if you're in contention tomorrow, you'll be okay?  
FRANCESCO LAPORTA: I hope so. I hope so, yes. Fill be there, I will think about it. I just want to enjoy it and let's see tomorrow.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT