NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: KINGS v DEVILS
June 3, 2012
Jeff Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Jeff Carter.   
   
 Q.   Regarding the overtime goal, what was it like?  
JEFF CARTER:   Obviously exciting.   A big moment in my career.   Huge goal for the team.   I got a lot of texts, a lot of phone calls and whatnot.   We're back at it tomorrow night, so we have to move on and get ready.   
   
 Q.   You've been in big moments before and had them go both ways.   Talk about being in that moment and celebrating the championship?  
JEFF CARTER:   Yeah, I mean, you never want to be on the losing end.   It's a tough situation.   Things have been going well for us here throughout the playoffs with overtime, coming up with some big goals.   
   
 Q.   Thinking about the things you had to celebrate, World Juniors, you celebrated a number of championships in your time, but how does that weigh against what the potential is here?  
JEFF CARTER:   I don't think any of those really match up to what we're going for here.   This is right at the top of the list.   
Obviously they're huge accomplishments, the world juniors, Calder Cup, whatnot, but this is the one I really want.   
   
 Q.   (Question regarding Philadelphia and the trades.)   
JEFF CARTER:   Well, it was obviously a tough situation for us leaving Philly.   We loved it there.   We loved our time.   We signed long deals to potentially finish our careers there.   
It was a tough situation.   We had a lot of thinking to do.   Took a little while to get over that.   It's funny how things work out.   We're both in L.A. now, two wins away from the Stanley Cup.   Couldn't be happier.   
   
 Q.   You've played the Devils before.   Are they a different team in the last few years?  
JEFF CARTER:   I think they're still kind of sticking to what they did in previous years.   I think since Pete came on, they've opened their game up a little bit offensively.   You look at the guys they have up front, they have some high‑end talent.   
They're definitely taking a few more chances, risks, whatever you might want to call it.   They're still the same old New Jersey Devils, strong defensively, don't give you much.   
   
 Q.   Describe the Columbus stint.   It was a difficult time.   Organization was having a tough time.   Describe that stretch for you.   
JEFF CARTER:   It wasn't an easy situation obviously.   Being in Philly for six years, all you do there is win, right?   That's really all you know.   They teach you the right way there.   
Going to Columbus, it was a team that was struggling.   Obviously there were some expectations going into the season.   Things didn't work out the way everybody had hoped.   I'm happy where I'm at now.   
   
 Q.   You thought you were a Flyer for life, though, when you signed that deal?  
JEFF CARTER:   That's why we signed.   
   
 Q.   In L.A., so close to the Cup, a year ago could you have imagined this?  
JEFF CARTER:   I wouldn't have imagined this three or four months ago.   It's crazy how things work out.   We're two wins away from winning the Stanley Cup.   It's pretty surreal right now.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT