NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: KINGS v COYOTES
May 18, 2012
Jeff Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Jeff Carter.   
   
 Q.   Just a comment on what this weekend will be like around Staples Center.   
JEFF CARTER:   Yeah, it's going to be pretty crazy.   You know, I think Sunday will be quite the day around there with our game, the Clippers, and the bike race, too.   It's definitely going to be exciting for everybody there.   
   
 Q.   Sometimes teams show complacency when either rolling through the playoffs or leading 3‑0.   That doesn't seem something like this Kings team is too concerned about.   
JEFF CARTER:   No.   I mean, we've been in this situation before in past rounds.   Coaches have done a great job of keeping us focused and realizing that we still have a lot of work to do to get through this series.   
We know they're a strong team.   They've showed it all year in the playoffs here.   We're going to get their best effort on Sunday, so we should be ready.  
   
 Q.   Is it difficult to not think about the fact that you are one win away from a Stanley Cup final?  
JEFF CARTER:   Yeah, I think a little bit.   We worked real hard to get to this point.   Like I said, it's not going to be easy to win that Game4.   We know we're going to get their best effort.   We need to be ready.   
   
 Q.   Really had trouble with your centers last night.   Do you expect them to get reorganized when they get Hanzal back in there?  
JEFF CARTER:   I'm sure they will.   He's a big part of their team.   He's shown that in the playoffs this year.   He maybe settles their lines down a little bit, gets people into right places.   
We know he's going to be fired up, coming out with a strong game after sitting out last game, so...   
   
 Q.   The fact you've had success in closeout games, does that carry you over at all?   Do you use that experience?  
JEFF CARTER:   Yeah, definitely.   We're a confident group right now.   We're pretty comfortable with being in this position.   We've done it the last two rounds here.   The guys are confident.   They're relaxed.   We'll be ready to go.   
   
 Q.   Do you do the same thing?  
JEFF CARTER:   Just do the same thing.   It's been working for us.   Like I said, the coaches have done a great job of getting us prepared, what changes they've made in their game, whatnot.   We got a lot of good leadership on this team, make sure everybody's staying focused, you know, getting ready for the next one.   
   
 Q.   Are you adjusting to anything they might have adjusted to?   How do you counter?   
JEFF CARTER:   We keep going.   Like I said, the coaches, they do a great job of making sure we're ready with whatever changes they come with.   Expect nothing but the same on Sunday.   
THE MODERATOR:   Thank you.   
   
  
  
   
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT