NHL STANLEY CUP FINALS: FLYERS v BLACKHAWKS
May 27, 2010
Jeff Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. I just want to know how the foot is feeling. 
 JEFF CARTER: It's feeling good. It's obviously a work in progress, like every day. It feels like even just walking around, it feels like it's getting better. Getting stronger as I skate every day. It's looking up. 

 Q. Would you categorize yourself as 100%. I know it's hard to say you're 100% now. Are you physically fit to go attribute everything you've done during the regular season? 
 JEFF CARTER: I think so. At this time of the year there's lot of guys that are playing through injuries, bumps and bruises and stuff like that. Something you have to put in the backburner. At the end of the day you have to go out and play hockey. 

 Q. Do you need to change - does the team need to change their game at all when they go up against a better offensive team like the Chicago Blackhawks? 
 JEFF CARTER: They have a lot of skilled players there. A lot of guys that are dangerous offensively. I wouldn't say we need to change our game plan. I think we've been really good defensively the whole Playoffs.
 But we definitely need to be on top of our game defensively. They have a lot of guys that can hurt you. We have to be ready. 

 Q. How has your spring been? 
 JEFF CARTER: Good. 

 Q. I was wondering when you first got hurt you probably wondered if your Playoffs were over or not? 
 JEFF CARTER: Yeah, I was told they were done. So to be honest with you, it was four weeks without putting pressure on my leg; told the Playoffs were done. I wasn't rehabbing. I wasn't doing anything. I was just kind of hanging out, watching a few games and laying on the couch, and did absolutely nothing.
 I got a call basically a week ago, I guess, from our trainer that there was a possibility that I might be able to start skating again. Next thing you know, I'm back in the lineup. 

 Q. It's kind of surreal, isn't it? 
 JEFF CARTER: It is. I was pretty down when they told me I was pretty much done for the year. I was obviously really happy for the guys the way it's going. But it's tough to sit there and watch knowing you're not going to be able to get out there and watch. I'm definitely excited. 

 Q. It looked on TV like you jumped in with the same rhythm you had before. 
 JEFF CARTER: Yeah, I was actually surprised. I skated - I had two full practices, I guess. Not even two practices. Two decent practices before I played Game 4, I guess. I surprised myself with the way I felt. I tried to keep the shifts as short as possible and roam all over. The game in Philly, Game 5, I felt like I had an extra jump than did I in Game 4. I was happy with the way things went. 

 Q. I was talking to Dave Bolland when the Hawks were here. I don't know if you've seen what he's gotten under the skin of the Sharks and the Canucks pretty good. What do you expect from him in this series? 
 JEFF CARTER: I know Bolls real well. He played in London, and I'm from London. I got to know those guys a lot. He's doing a great job for them. He's one of those guys that, he's just got that pertinent, that kind of on the ice. He kind of gets in your skin. I watched the Sharks' series a bit, and he got under Joel's skin quite a bit. That's what he's doing. He's doing a good job of it. You know we're going to have to keep our cool and just worry about playing hockey. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT