NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 22, 2008
Jeff Carter
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  


  


   DAVID KEON: Good afternoon, everyone. I'm David Keon of the National Hockey League's public relations department and I'd like to welcome you to our call. With us we have Philadelphia Flyers forward Jeff Carter. Thanks to Jeff for joining us today and thanks to Zack Hill of the Flyers public relations department for setting up the call.   
 Earlier today Jeff was named the National Hockey League's Second Star of the week after recording four goals and three assists for seven points in four games. He has taken over the National Hockey League goal-scoring lead with 25, has moved into sixth place in overall scoring with 39 points. Jeff has tied for the league lead with four shorthanded goals and also with game-winning goals with five.   
 The 11th overall selection in the 2003 Entry Draft, Jeff is in his fourth NHL season and he turns 24 on New Year's Day. The Flyers host Ottawa tomorrow night at the Wachovia Center, then leave on a six-game road trip from December 26th through January 6th, their longest trip of the season.   
 Thanks to Jeff for joining us to answer your questions. We'll open it up for questions now.   
  
  Q. Have you always shot the puck as much as you're doing this year? And at this time of the season, did you think you would have more goals than Ovechkin?  
 JEFF CARTER: Yeah, I mean, when I grew up, my dad always taught me you can't score if you don't shoot. So I try to put it in the net every chance I get.   
 The second part about Ovechkin, I don't know how long I can hold him off for. He seems to be scoring well these days. He's a great player. We'll see.   
  
  Q. The number of fights this year is up. Have you noticed the play being more chippy this year, a little bit more closer quarters than they have been?  
 JEFF CARTER: I don't really see a difference at all. I think it's just the way the game is. I think it's intense, tight games this year. I think a lot of teams are real close to each other in the standings and stuff like that. They mean a lot more, and guys are just battling.   
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about the chemistry on your line with Joffrey and Scott and why it has clicked so well this year.   
 JEFF CARTER: Yeah, it's going great. I think, you know, we complement each other real well. Lup's is a real finesse guy; he has a lot of speed, which helps my game out, too. Hartsy just crashes and bangs, gets to the net, creates a lot of space for myself and Lups. So it's going well.  
  
  Q. Talk about the team's success shorthanded. Has the success even surprised you?  
 JEFF CARTER: Yes, it definitely has. I think chief has us playing a real pressure style. Whenever we get a chance, we have the free rein to take off and see what happens.   
 It's been going well. We've been preparing for our chances, and hopefully we'll keep it going.   
  
  Q. Is there a lot of risk involved in that type of style?  
 JEFF CARTER: I think you have to be cautious when you go, when you to stick back. You need to know who's on the ice, too. We can't be really taking off when you got guys like Crosby, Malkin, and Ovechkin out there. You've got to be aware of what's going on. I mean, if you play the right way, I don't think there's too much risk, no.   
  
  Q. Have you given any thought to playing in the All-Star game coming up soon?  
 JEFF CARTER: It would be great. I haven't really thought too much about it. I mean, it would definitely be a big thrill for myself. You know, there's a lot of great players in the league. To be chosen, if I do, it would be great.   
  
  Q. About your goal scoring, could you imagine you were ready for a breakout year like this? Did you feel you had that type of scoring potential and you were looking to find it?  
 JEFF CARTER: Yeah, I always knew that I could score. I think this year I just started to play with a lot of confidence right off the bat, which has kind of helped me. I've been getting some good breaks, some good linemates, and things have been going well.  
  
  Q. Was it strictly results that gave you that confidence or was there something else that factored into it?  
 JEFF CARTER: I think it was just the way things went at the start of the year. You know, I've never really been a big starter at the season. I got off to a quick start; just kind of kept going. I think that's probably it: just a confidence issue.   
 DAVID KEON: Thanks very much, Jeff, for your time today.   
 JEFF CARTER: Yeah, no problem.   
 DAVID KEON: Thanks, everyone, for joining us and have a great holiday season.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT