STATE FARM MISSOURI VALLEY CONFERENCE MEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 5, 2020
Darian DeVries
Anthony Murphy
Jonah Jackson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Drake - 75, Illinois State - 65   
THE MODERATOR: We have the victorious Bulldogs with us. They will play UNI tomorrow at noon. Darian DeVries is the head coach. He's in the middle. Anthony Murphy and Jonah Jackson represent the student body.   
DARIAN DeVRIES: I thought it was a great effort by our guys tonight. It was great to see them playing a little loose and free. We got some threes to go down. We've been struggling the last few games with that. It was nice to see us get it opened up on the offensive end. I thought defensively, the second half, their guys played a tremendous half and really took some of the things that they like to do away.   
So I was really proud of our guys' effort, really from start to finish.   
 Q.  Darian, could you just talk about how you guys handled the zone tonight? It looked like you were much more comfortable.  
DARIAN DeVRIES: Yeah, it helped we had three days before the tournament here to really get prepped for it. I thought our guys did just a better job of being aggressive against the zone and attacked it on the interior a little bit better than we did the first time around. So I thought the guys, like I said, just their overall mindset was better against the zone this time.   
 Q.  Jonah, what did you look at as the keys to getting things going from the perimeter for your team here going into this tournament?  
JONAH JACKSON: Just going into the game, the coaches tell me to shoot the ball when I'm open and just have fun. I got my feet set and hit a couple today.   
DARIAN DeVRIES: I told him they were bigger baskets here (Laughter).   
 Q.  Anthony, could you just talk about -- I think they cut your lead to four points with about six minutes left. What was kind of going on in your guys' mindset, and what were you guys talking about in the huddle there?  
ANTHONY MURPHY: Coach said they're going to hit us with a run and don't panic and stay composed. That's what we did. Jonah hit some big shots and Liam made some free throws, Garrett and myself, also. We just didn't panic, and we just did it.   
 Q.  How determined are you guys to have another shot at Northern Iowa after that final game, home game, didn't go your way and you guys probably felt like you didn't play as well as you could have there?  
ANTHONY MURPHY: You know, they came to the Knapp Center and got the victory. Like Coach said, they're not going to see the same team. We've just got to come off strong and stay composed.   
JONAH JACKSON: Yeah. To kind of piggy-back off of what Tone was saying, we just have to play our game and do what we do best, and hopefully the results will be what we want to tomorrow.   
 Q.  Jonah, just wondering, for those who don't see you all the time, what is the key for a player offensively to get open shots like you do when defenses know largely what your offense is going to be from behind the arc?  
JONAH JACKSON: Just run offense and -- you know, I got really good teammates who look for me at all times. They kind of hunt for me, you know, coming off screens and just being a team player. Just knowing to come to me when I'm open and staying patient.   
 Q.  Darian, looking back at film from Sunday's game, what did you take away from that, and what are some of the adjustments you feel like your team is going to need to make tomorrow?  
DARIAN DeVRIES: You assume I watched that film. I burned that thing.   
They're a good team. They present a lot of problems for you. You know, they're well coached, got good players, and so there's -- when you look at it, there's some areas we need to clean up, that we need to do a lot better job of that I didn't think we were sharp at this last time around. On a quick turnaround, you can't do a ton. It really comes down to just relying on what your principles are at both ends of the floor and knowing what you're looking for, and then just be confident in what you're doing.   
THE MODERATOR: Gentlemen, congratulations. Thank you very much.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT