U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 19, 2016
Nick Carlson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Moving on to the semifinals, you've liken ed yourself to Roy McAvoy from Tin Cup, what's going through your head right now?  
NICK CARLSON: I don't even know how to explain it.  Playing some really good golf and I'm just enjoying myself out there.  That's all I can really do.   
 Q.  Do you think this attitude of nothing to lose has impacted you at all?  
NICK CARLSON: Oh, yeah, I can start on the first hole, knowing if I lose, I'm still really proud of myself.  I have so many people that are proud of me and I can just play golf.   
 Q.  We heard a rumor that you had some treatment on your hip during the rain delay.  If that's true, how did that impact you at all?  
NICK CARLSON: No, I just went in and used my foam roller.  It wasn't my hip.  It was down by my knee.  I was just a little sore, so I tried to get it out, and it was the perfect time to do it.   
 Q.  Let's talk about No. 14, the chip-in.  You had to play it perfectly, and you did.  Is that what you saw in your mind?  
NICK CARLSON: Yeah, luckily I drew like the most incredible lie.  Luckily I drew the most incredible lie, and it just happened to where I could hit a 9-iron and bump it into the hill, because there's no way you could go lie with it and land it on the green and stop it anywhere near the green.  I had to play it low with a 9 and luckily hit my spot just the way I wanted and it trickled in.   
 Q.  You definitely had the biggest crowds of anybody here, you're the hometown kid and you called yourself the hometown hero.  What does this mean to be on your stage with your family and friends all here to watch this show?  
NICK CARLSON: It's amazing.  It's amazing.  I'm sure I'll pull my phone up in two seconds and there will be 100,000 texts, just everyone coming out of the woodworks so say congratulations.  That's probably the coolest parts.  And to add to that, all these people watching, it's even better.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT