U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
Nick Carlson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First of all, how good does that feel doing this in front of your hometown people?
NICK CARLSON: You know, it's pretty awesome to be able to do what I'm just doing right there, signing autographs, saying hi to people.  You've got so many Michigan fans out here, Michigan -- I mean, I even had some State people come out today.  To do it in front of the people, it's just awesome.  I can't even put into words what it is.  I have so many people out here.  I have friends, family, my coaches, a teammate.  It's pretty special.  Hopefully I can just keep doing.
Q. How many people do you estimate you know were following this match here?
NICK CARLSON: 30.  30.  I know there's a lot of people that I knew.  It was pretty cool.  It's just awesome.
Q. This is your first USGA event, right?
NICK CARLSON: Yeah.  First one ever.
Q. Going pretty well.
NICK CARLSON: Yeah.  I mean, my goal was to make match play.  I did that.  And now it's my goal just to keep going as far as I can.  I'm playing some really good golf.  I just shot 3-under, not including that birdie there.  But I'm playing well.  Let's just keep riding the wave.
Q. What were your thoughts standing over that final putt.  You missed putts to win on 17 and 18, and then he put pressure on you with his third shot.
NICK CARLSON: Yeah, I knew he was going to do that.  He's a great player.  He's sixth ranked in the world.  He's going to hit great shots when he needs to, and he hit it great down the stretch.
Over 18 I was a little upset that I didn't make that one.  It was about the same putt today.  On that one I hit my line.  I hit it the correct speed, and it caught the lip.  It was just pretty cool.
Q. How do you calm down after an intense match like that?
NICK CARLSON: I plan on taking a shower, changing my clothes, eating some ice cream, and we'll go out and have another good match.
Q. Safe to say the support you're getting is boosting you?
NICK CARLSON: Yeah, oh, absolutely.  To have people out here screaming your name, I've never experienced anything like it.  It's pretty cool.  As you can see right now, I'm on kind of a high.  Got some hugs.  It's very emotional.  But it's something that I can't take back, memories.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT