U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 18, 2016
Nick Carlson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. It was an up-and-down battle.
NICK CARLSON: Yeah.
Q. Where do you start on something like this?
NICK CARLSON: I played well on the front nine when he didn't, and he played well on the back nine when I didn't.  Luckily enough I was able to escape 18 and then get to this one, and hit an amazing shot in there from 140 yards.
Q. I know it's all you, but having a crowd like this, did it help you on the back nine?
NICK CARLSON: Yeah, it was unreal.  I can't even describe it.  There's so many people.  I mean, there was so many people on this last hole.  I was feeding off them on 18.  My caddie told me to slow down and breathe on 1 tee.  Luckily enough we did, and I mean, I didn't really realize how amazing it was to have this big of a crowd until that last putt went in.  Just to look out and see people three deep all around the green, it was pretty special.
Q. And now you're in an elite place.
NICK CARLSON: Yeah, it's unreal.  I can't even put it to words.  I mean, sure, everyone is trying to win this, but I was just trying to get to match play, and now I'm in the elite eight.
Q. Do you always play this emotional?
NICK CARLSON: Yes, absolutely.  My coach, my teammates, my friends, they'll all tell you I'm a very vocal, outgoing person on the golf course, and that's just how I am, and that's just how I play golf.  It gets me into a rhythm.  It's able to get me out of rhythms.  But for the most part this whole week, it's kept me in a rhythm and kept me going and kept me confident.
Q. And now tomorrow maybe if you get a big blue crowd --
NICK CARLSON: You know, I'm hoping we will.  I'm hoping we will.  Today just to see all the Michigan hats and Michigan shirts and people yelling, "go blue," I even had a couple Sparties yelling, "go blue."  It's unreal.  It's like movie-esque.  It's cool.
Q. Are you trying to get Oakland Hills to redesign this course on No. 7 and No. 18, maybe move the fairways over to the right?
NICK CARLSON: No, I mean, this is how it's supposed to be.  Ryder Cups put in course out of bounds.  USGA decided not to.  That's just how I'm going to play the golf course because it's there in front of me and I'm going to do it.
Q. On No. 18 did you get that drive as far right as you wanted it?
NICK CARLSON: No, I toe-hooked it, and it was not in a good spot.  I wasn't even in a good spot in the rough.  It was terrible.
Q. Bad lie?
NICK CARLSON: Mm-hmm.
Q. What did you hit out of there?
NICK CARLSON: Everything was against me and I had 200 yards, and I just tried to muscle 6-iron as far as I could, whether that was in a front bunker or -- luckily it was on the green, but that's really all I was trying to do.
Q. How exhausting of a day is this?
NICK CARLSON: I'm tired.  I'll be out in 30 minutes when I get back to where I'm staying.  My legs are shot.  I need to take an ice bath.  I'm ready for tomorrow.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT