AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 4, 2000
Mike Sirotka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Q.  How does your arm feel today and what do you think of your performance?

MIKE SIROTKA: My arm was decent, not 100 percent.  But my body was telling me not to really cut it loose all the way.  But from a velocity standpoint, that's not a big issue.  Our big deal was how I pitch.  I pitch more with movement, location.  I pitched 83 to 85 instead of 88 to 90.  I still got my share of ground balls, made some pitches in tough situations.  I was not overly pleased, but not disappointed. 


Q.  Can you talk about the pitch  to Buhner and was it a good pitch?

MIKE SIROTKA: No, it was a terrible pitch.  It was a hanging curveball right over the plate. 


Q.  You guys as a team have rallied all year long.  You're in the ultimate hole now, at least in this series.  What kind of confidence do you have that you guys will put up a good battle and fight back?

MIKE SIROTKA: I have tremendous confidence in our club.  We've had our backs against the wall pretty much all season.  Nobody believed in us except ourselves, and I think we'll see some tremendous effort.  Our team has a lot of heart, a lot of guts, a lot of guys with tremendous wills to win.  If there's a team that can come back from this, it's our team.  We have a lot of belief in each other, and that's what it's going to take. 


Q.  Can you talk about the bad luck that you guys have had with pitchers lately?

MIKE SIROTKA: Obviously, in a perfect world you have your best three starters healthy.  Jim and I have done a decent job of giving us a chance to win.  Cal went through a lot to try and get back.  Unfortunately, he was not able to be with us.  James Baldwin has as big a heart as anybody and will give us everything he's got tomorrow  -- or in two days.  But at the same time, you have to overcome everything you're dealt with.  This is a team that's certainly capable of overcoming this. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT