AL DIVISION SERIES: MARINERS v WHITE SOX
October 3, 2000
Mike Sirotka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Talk a little bit about how you feel going into tomorrow's game, even though we
don't know the outcome of today's game yet. 

MIKE SIROTKA: I feel good about it. Very excited. It's taken a long -- it's taken the
last three years, a lot of rebuilding and then we've done it with a lot of our home-grown
guys. It's very exciting for the city, for the organization, and for my teammates. We're
very excited about it. 

Q. Coming off the injury to the elbow, will you be limited at all, any apprehension
going out and throwing full bore tomorrow?

MIKE SIROTKA: It's kind of just a wait-and-see kind of thing. I have to go through my
warmup routine, see how it feels, try and test it a little bit in the bullpen beforehand
and see where it's gonna let me take it. I don't know if I can throw 100 percent, but if I
can throw 99 percent, I still think I can get people out and I think as far as being
limited, I think it is a pitch-by-pitch basis and a situation in the game basis. 

Q. Mark Johnson was left off the playoff roster. So much has been made about this
team's camaraderie. How does a team view that business decision given the way it's been
run all year?

MIKE SIROTKA: Well, that's the first I've heard of it. I didn't know what the final
decision was. Mark was a guy who all the pitchers very much liked throwing to. He was
great behind the plate. But I think the move is probably based because Josh can run a
little bit better, not that he's necessarily a better catcher or anything like that. I
think with our team, maybe with some of the guys getting on base, if you need that run
from, you know, the guy to score from first on a double or a guy to score from second on a
hard single, I think Josh probably brings a little bit more speed. That's an option that
Jerry and Schue decided to use him. 

Q. You said that even if you threw at 90 percent, you could still get guys out. Have
you ever thrown at less than 100 percent?

MIKE SIROTKA: Yeah. Any time you go through a Major League season, you don't feel
perfect on every single pitch. When you're throwing them over 3,000 pitches a year,
whatever it might be, there's definitely times, you know, when you're a little sluggish,
your arm's hurting here, hurting there. There's just things -- you learn the limits of
your body being a starting pitcher. Because sometimes you can take it and go all-out;
sometimes you can't. That's what I'll have to find out tomorrow, is where I can take it. 

Q. Did you have complete input in the decision to a, pitch, and pitch tomorrow? How did
the decision get made at the end?

MIKE SIROTKA: Yes, I did have significant input into it. I went through a good throwing
routine yesterday, and basically with Jerry, Arty, Schue, all watching and seeing how I
was throwing. And everything went very well and the decision was made probably more just
in case I had any problems coming today so that we wouldn't be hanging Jim out to dry and
just knowing for sure that everything would be right going into Game 1 but also giving me
another day's rest, to be a little more cautious. 

Q. Talk a little bit about the line-up you face in the Mariners. 

MIKE SIROTKA: Obviously it's a very strong line-up, one through nine especially, Alex
and Edgar are two of the premiere hitters in the American League. But at the same time,
like with any hitters, they all have their weaknesses and if you're a good pitcher, you
know how to get there, and that's really the important thing. We faced them before, you've
seen them several times, you know what to expect, you know what everybody in that line-up
can do, and you try to make your pitches and not be intimidated by them. They're Major
League hitters, just like anybody else at this level. Maybe you throw tougher pitches to
those two guys and take your chances with the other guys. 

Q. Any thoughts about having a guy dropped off the playoff roster who's been with you
since Opening Day?

MIKE SIROTKA: I just talked about that. 

Q. Did you?

MIKE SIROTKA: Yeah. I think that -- basically, the decision was probably made not on
either of those two guys' catching abilities but more because of probably the speed option
that Josh brings. That's all -- about as far as I can guesstimate on that. 

Q. Is it possible to take the feelings out of it for another guy who's, you know, just
look at these other -- as your teammates as parts? I mean it seems like the personal
relationships and things would be tough to distance. 

MIKE SIROTKA: I assume so. Mark's done a great job for us all year, all pitchers love
throwing to him. We certainly wish that he was on the roster with us. He's a tremendous
addition to our team. But at the same time Jerry and Schue are trying to give themselves
every single best option they can to win a baseball game, and I don't think it is a
personal decision. It's more of, "What can we do to win a game?"

Q. Have you thought about what home-field advantage means to you guys? Or doesn't it?

MIKE SIROTKA: Well, considering we're a better team on the road (laughing) yeah,
hopefully that will come into play. But, you know, it's gonna be kind of unusual for us to
play in front of a packed house at home. It will be very exciting, very enthusiastic, and,
you know, a tremendous feeling, a rewarding feeling for us, you know, kind of a -- that we
have earned a little bit of respect in some -- it's nice to have the people of Chicago
behind us. But at the same time, it really comes down to if you can control your emotions
and your aggressiveness and your intensity, if you can control all those emotional things
when there is a large crowd, which our team has done very well this year playing, being a
very good team on the road. So I think our guys will handle it very well and just feel a
sense of pride that it's finally happening at home. 

Q. Before the last west coast trip you had mentioned that you had prepared for Oakland
and Seattle. You talked about how you had more of a comfort level pitching against
Seattle. What is it about their line-up you feel you can attack or you feel works to your
advantage?

MIKE SIROTKA: It's one of those things about being a baseball player that you really
cannot explain. Because there's several teams that I've struggled against throughout my
career and there's a couple -- there's some teams -- that I've done very well against. For
some reason, Seattle's one of those teams that I always seem to pitch very well against. I
think just the way maybe my ball moves and the way I pitch coming in -- plays into some of
their weaknesses. My strengths play into their weaknesses. And then at the same time I've
always been able to adjust to their guys very well. 

End of FastScripts…            
          
END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT