WEETABIX WOMEN'S BRITISH OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 29, 2005
Louise Stahle
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in and speaking with us.  You had a fabulous round today, 7 under today and 6 under for the tournament, and you're at the top of the leaderboard right now.  Just some thoughts on that and your fine play today.
LOUISE STAHLE:  Yeah, I just felt really good today.  I had a good pairing, I think that's one of the keys.  I played with Juli and Laura, and they were really nice to me.  And my putting was great today, so that's all the birdies.  Yeah, I'm really happy.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Can you take us over your score card, on the birdies?
LOUISE STAHLE:  Well, I got a good start on the first hole, my birdie.  I had a 5 iron and I was only two feet away, and that's a good start.
Q.  How far was the 5 iron?
LOUISE STAHLE:  Probably, I do meters, maybe 160 or something.

4, I hit a 6 iron to like three or four feet.

5, I hit a 3 iron off the tee and a wedge to 15 feet maybe.

12, I hit 7 iron to about 15 feet, 15, 20 feet and made the putt.

14, I hit a 6 iron to about five feet.

15, I hit a driver and 5 wood and just a little chip and made a 15 foot putt.

18, I hit a driver, 5 wood to the front of the green and then 2 putted.  I hit it to ten yards but was short.
Q.  Inaudible?
LOUISE STAHLE:  No.
Q.  Can you talk about the difference in the course from yesterday?  Is it playing easier?
LOUISE STAHLE:  Yeah, definitely.  Hardly any wind today.  Some holes maybe one or two clubs, but definitely a lot easier today with no rain, too.  I thought the putting in general was the key today.  I made all of the necessary putts.
Q.  Inaudible?
LOUISE STAHLE:  I had a good year, my freshman year at Arizona State, I won three times and became Player of the Year.  It feels good because I'm leading now and it feels good.
Q.  Any plans to turn professional?
LOUISE STAHLE:  Yeah, next week I turn pro and play in Sweden, I'll stay in Europe for a couple of weeks and then I go to Q School.
Q.  Inaudible?
LOUISE STAHLE:   I don't know, if I get an invitation, it's kind of hard to get in it    no, I haven't got in.  It was tough.  There's only one or two that I could play.  So I'm staying in Europe for a little while.
Q.  What university?
LOUISE STAHLE:  Arizona State.
Q.  Who else went there?
LOUISE STAHLE:  Grace Park, Annika Sorenstam.
Q.  Inaudible?
LOUISE STAHLE:  She went to the rival school in Tucson.  It was a great freshman year, I had a hope for that.  The competition is really tough and Annika was always my idol.
Q.  Inaudible?
LOUISE STAHLE:  Yeah, everyone in the spring.  I only went one year.
Q.  Inaudible?
LOUISE STAHLE:  I wasn't really    I was playing mostly golf.
Q.  What's your lowest round?
LOUISE STAHLE:  It's 64, at a college event in Tucson.  I think it was a par 72, but it's definitely the lowest in a professional event.
Q.  Inaudible?
LOUISE STAHLE:  Well, I couldn't turn pro    I wanted to turn before this tournament obviously, but I had my invite from the British Amateur in June.  So I had to stay amateur and obviously you want to play.  The professional thing, I kind of wanted, you know, since last year, so I kind of knew.
Q.  Inaudible?
LOUISE STAHLE:  Yeah, I have a really high goal.  It's tough, but you have to believe in it.  You have to aim high I think if you want to accomplish something.  And definitely I think also watching the U.S. Open with Morgan and Brittany up on the top, that's an inspiration.

I won two British Amateurs on links courses and I'm really happy in England.
Q.  Inaudible?
LOUISE STAHLE:  Well, I think this is    I feel this is like St. Andrews, more bumpy than I thought it would be.  You have to land it short and just plan your course strategy.  I have a really good caddie on my bag, so she's helping me a lot.

She's been out here for a long time.  It seems to be going well so she's sticking with me.
Q.  Will you be signing a series of contracts in the next few weeks?
LOUISE STAHLE:  No, I don't think so.  I think all of the contracts will be for next year.  Just going to play a couple of events and then try to get my card, LPGA card for next year, so I think everything will happen in the off season.
Q.  Do you think you can focus on the next day or two or will you be nervous; winning three times at University should help?
LOUISE STAHLE:  I think I enjoy the pressure and the people watching.  I think it's fun and makes you play better.  I've never been in this situation before, so I don't know.  Just going out there and have fun and make some putts.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT