VANDERBILT UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 12, 2019
Dayo Odeyingbo
Justice Shelton-Mosley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








UNLV - 34, Vanderbilt - 10
Q. What do you think the issue is with defense? Is it just tackling? Is it youth? What do you think it is specifically?
DAYO ODEYINGBO: Not stopping the opponent from getting in the end zone enough.
Q. How surprised are you by that? You guys have been a good defense in the past.
DAYO ODEYINGBO: Surprised. We worked hard, but we've got to work harder.
Q. Do you think there's anything missing in terms of leadership? Is there something more you guys can provide, the older guys, or are you just kind of searching for something?
JUSTICE SHELTON-MOSLEY: We've put a good amount of people in leadership, and they've been doing a great job and it's been spreading around the team, and the coaches have done their job, as well, as far as being a leader and setting the example.
Q. Coach said this coming week of practice you have to fight the frustration on this thing, keep it from going wayward. How do you do that, keep the guys fighting and keep working?
JUSTICE SHELTON-MOSLEY: I think you look at it from a bigger perspective. You only have a few college games as opposed -- relative to your whole life, so every game is a unique opportunity to come out and play. Every practice is a unique opportunity to be in the locker room, is something that you'll be able to cherish for the most of your life, so looking at it that way, you can't take anything for granted. So that's kind of how you approach that.
Q. Dayo, we usually hear a whole lot of racket even after a loss in that locker room. It's pretty quiet back there. What's the feeling in the locker room right now? Are you guys upbeat? Are you still confident? You have six games left.
DAYO ODEYINGBO: Still working.
Q. Is there a sense of panic in the locker room?
DAYO ODEYINGBO: No one is panicking, just working.
JUSTICE SHELTON-MOSLEY: I wouldn't say there's a sense of panic, and it kind of goes back to the answer that I had last time. We have, what, six more games left, right? That six college football games left. For some of us, for our whole career, six football games. And we do have a lot of young guys, but you still can't take it for granted. So I don't think there's a sense of panic, more an opportunity to get better because most of us, our aspirations are getting to the league, so it's a big opportunity to get better.
Q. Dayo, do you guys feel like the scheme is set right to be effective on defense?
DAYO ODEYINGBO: Yes. We've just got to execute.
Q. Coach mentioned that you guys somewhat were missing physically. I don't think necessarily -- it's probably the younger players. Is that something that can be fixed during the season, be more physical?
DAYO ODEYINGBO: I'm not sure what you're referring to.
Q. Just guys younger, not as strong, not being able to compete physically?
DAYO ODEYINGBO: No, I don't think that's a problem.
Q. Justice, you guys go down the field and score pretty quickly. That was your best drive of the game. What happened after that drive? Where did things change?
JUSTICE SHELTON-MOSLEY: Just the execution standpoint. Football is a game where all 11 guys got to be clicking for something great to happen, especially on the offensive side of the ball, and so, you know, there's a little bit of popcorn. Some things that are really fixable, which is great, so looking forward to fixing that and getting ready for Mizzou next week.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT