SAN DIEGO STATE UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 22, 2018
Darren Hall
Anthony Luke
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
San Diego State - 23, Eastern Michigan - 20 (OT)   
 Q.  Darren, what did you see on the interception?  
DARREN HALL: Before the play, my teammate, Tariq Thompson, was like, what's the route formation?  Either out in corner or a dig in the post.  So expect the corner because I'm going to be there on the post.  We were in cover two.  They ran it.  I sunk under the seven and I picked it off.   
 Q.  What's the difference between the halves for you guys?  Seemed like the first half you guys were dominating the line of scrimmage.  And the second half they came back a little bit.  Was there something that changed?  
ANTHONY LUKE: I think the momentum before halftime is what changed.  They did a good job before halftime using that interception to carry on with that momentum and score.  And just like when we played Arizona State we scored right before halftime and set the momentum for the second half.  So that's part of football.   
 Q.  Darren, could you talk about that interception what that means to you giving back the ball to your offense?  
DARREN HALL: It means a lot.  It was a great game.  Eastern Michigan played a great game.  We were heading into overtime, it was, like, dang, we got another maybe couple more halves to play basically with the overtime rule.  I was just going out there trying to make a play and just win the game for us.   
 Q.  How big were those fourth-down stops for you on defense?  
ANTHONY LUKE: Extremely big.  They were already in field goal range on one of them, and they could have put more points on the board.  We had a few more that they could have used as momentum to put more points on the board, so any fourth-down stops at any part of the game it's pretty big.   
 Q.  How did you adjust on defense after they changed quarterbacks from Wiegers to Glass?  
ANTHONY LUKE: Both quarterbacks were good.  We knew when No. 9 was in the game he likes to run the ball so we had to collapsed pocket more.  We knew you can't really rush up field with No. 9 because he's really fast.   
So if you rush too far up field he's going to step in the pocket and come inside and run.  So we just adjusted a little bit and knew we had to compress the pocket, stay tight.   
 Q.  What's this win mean for you guys?  
ANTHONY LUKE: Just any other win to us.  We just need to use it to go into this bye week and become better, get better.  Keep improving and learn from our mistakes.   
DARREN HALL: It was a good team win, but we have a bye week to get better.  We have going to conference play after the bye week, so get ready and play better before we play them.   
 Q.  Couple long receptions for them, couple yards, what happened?  
DARREN HALL: Sometimes the receiver just runs a good route, and the quarterback throws a good ball.  We try to be in the best coverage we can be but sometimes a better route to the ball beats us.   
ANTHONY LUKE: Defensive line on those wins need to get to the quarterback too also.  So our DBs don't have to cover for a long time.  So that's on the "D" line.  That's not on the DBs, that's on "D" line, that's on linebackers.  We just need to get there faster on those deep balls.   
 Q.  What did them switching quarterbacks do for you guys, did you game plan for Glass at all?  
ANTHONY LUKE: We game planned for both quarterbacks.  It was just football.  We just have to overcome adversity and even changing the quarterback is a little bit of adversity because you can't really focus all week on just like one dude.  We knew that No. 9 was going to play a lot actually because we watched the last game, we watched Purdue.  And in the Buffalo game, No. 9 actually played a lot more.  So we paid attention.   
 Q.  Do you feel his skills kind of gave them a spark a little bit?  
ANTHONY LUKE: They're both good quarterbacks.  I think they just took advantage of the opportunities that they had.  So could have been 12, could have been 9 in there, they both could make that, the passes they made on that.  So we just need to stop it.  We just need to adjust and the "D" line needs to get there we just need to do our job.   
DARREN HALL: We game planned for both of them like he said, but usually they ride the quarterback that's doing better.  He was doing better this game so he stayed in and we just had to adjust to his game style as we did.   
 Q.  What would you say was his game style, like how would you describe it?  
DARREN HALL: He's a more of a scramble quarterback.  He can stay back in the pocket of course and throw it because he had some good passes today.  But he's more of like -- I see him as a scramble quarterback.  He's more of a read option quarterback.  He'll pull it more than 12 will, but 12 is more of a stay back in the pocket and throw the ball.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT