AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 19, 2006
Nathan Healey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:  Questions, please. 


Q.  Sounds probably by the delay in coming here, you must have been pretty down on your feet after that. 

NATHAN HEALEY:  Yeah, I mean, it was a lot of hard work and a lot of running done out there.  Yeah, I started to cramp at 4-2 in the fourth.  Yeah, I thought, geez, you know, I thought I was going to be in trouble there.  But the guys helped me at the change of ends and, yeah, I was able to win the match.  Afterwards, I was walking into the change rooms, and I nearly fell over.  Yeah, it took it out of me, for sure.

Q.  What have you done since then to recover? 

NATHAN HEALEY:  I had a massage.  First, I had an ice bath.  The ice bath to the hot water.  Did that for like, I don't know, 20 minutes.  That's why I'm still shivering from that.  I hadn't done it for a while, maybe two years.  So it's a shock to the system.  But I had a massage, as well.  Yeah, I'm starting to get back to almost normal. 

Q.  Was it just heat stress, was that part of it?

NATHAN HEALEY:  Yeah, I think so.  Yeah, maybe I didn't drink enough water.  I'll have to look into that.  Yeah, I mean, I feel fit and, you know, ready to go.  Yeah, it sort of snuck up on me a little bit. 

Q.  How are you feeling now?

NATHAN HEALEY:  Well, I'm still shivering.  But, yeah, I feel a lot better.

Q.  Did you feel when that cramp set in the match might have slipped away from you?

NATHAN HEALEY:  Well, I mean, I don't know.  If it went into some full body cramp, then, yeah, I might have had to shake hands.  It was only minor.  Yeah, so I dealt with it.  Yeah, by the end of the match, I was still able to stand on two feet. 

Q.  Does that give you strength of mind then to go on or does it put a bit of fear in there as well to realize you were so close to meltdown?

NATHAN HEALEY:  Yeah, I mean, I just had to guts it out.  There was no real fear.  Yeah, it would have been disappointing actually if it had turned into something bigger.  But, you know, thanks to the guys on the side, you know, it put some confidence back in me.  Yeah, it's the first time I've had to call the trainers out for anything like that.  Yeah, it was all new to me.  They reinforced and made me feel good. 

Q.  How much of a lift did you get from the crowd?

NATHAN HEALEY:  Yeah, it was huge.  Yeah, it was great atmosphere out there.  Last year I played on Show Court 3.  It was an overawing experience.  I didn't settle down until really like -- till the third set.  Today I'm becoming more comfortable with that situation, and really enjoying it, to be honest.

Q.  You're kind of going into unchartered territory now, fifth seed next time out.  What do you do from here?

NATHAN HEALEY:  Well, I mean, I'll go back, have a look at his game.  I haven't watched that much of Davydenko.  Yeah, I'll sit down with the guys that have been helping me.  Yeah, we'll work out a game plan.  I'll just run from there. 

Q.  You were saying before that you've got some confidence out of this now.  That's a pretty tall order.  Third round of a Grand Slam, fifth seed.  Do you honestly think you have some chance of getting past him?

NATHAN HEALEY:  Well, I mean, I'm confident, yeah.  I'm feeling good out there.  I'm playing well within myself.  I'm just learning so much with every match.  If I can, you know, just remain on my feet, yeah, I think I've got a good shot. 

Q.  Emotionally, the cramps aside, how does it feel to know you're in the third round of your home Grand Slam?

NATHAN HEALEY:  It feels wonderful.  Yeah, what can I say?  I want more of it (smiling). 

Q.  Was that something you ever thought you would achieve when you were on the challenger circuit?

NATHAN HEALEY:  I always thought it was within me, but it's just taken a while for me to actually believe the feelings.  Like, you know, there's a difference between saying, "Oh, yes, I belong there inside that top hundred, top 50," to actually feeling it.  Now I'm really starting to feel it.

Q.  Who have you got here supporting you?  We have shots of coaches, entourage.  Who do you rely on to get you through today and tomorrow as well?

NATHAN HEALEY:  I've got a great group of people.  I've got my father down here, my brother.  They've been awesome.  I have other coaches in the background helping me.  Then I have a whole like entourage.  I have my girlfriend, all her friends.  I have friends from school.  They're all scattered throughout the stadium.  I fed off them as well as everyone else.  Yeah, it feels good. 

Q.  What's on the agenda tonight?  Catch up with them or go home and sleep?

NATHAN HEALEY:  I'd like to, but, no, I don't think that's the right move.  I'll just have a quiet dinner and replace everything that I lost.  Yeah, I don't know, get ready.  I've got mixed doubles tomorrow.  I've got to get up for that, otherwise my partner won't be happy.

Q.  Are you up on Saturday in the singles?  Do you know at this point? 

NATHAN HEALEY:  I presume so, yes. 

Q.  Sorry to tell you, but you look like you might have a 35 degree day again. 

NATHAN HEALEY:  Really?  Oh, great, bring it on (smiling). 

Q.  Any precautions this time around?

NATHAN HEALEY:  I'll just pump plenty of this, plenty of that, see what happens (pointing to Powerade and water). 

Q.  When you talked about learning so much, is it a court thing, a crowd thing? 

NATHAN HEALEY:  It's just everything.  Just little bits and pieces start to fit when you go through these experiences.  Yeah, I mean, I was playing a lot of doubles before, so I had my partner out there and I was able to discuss things with him.  Now, being out there alone, it's just a whole 'nother story.  Yeah, just with the more matches, yeah, I'm just starting to see little bits and pieces fit. 

Q.  The chance of playing on Rod Laver Arena?

NATHAN HEALEY:  I have no idea.  That would be an experience.  I'd love to do that.  We'll wait and see.

Q.  Will you watch Lleyton tonight?  Will you learn anything from that?

NATHAN HEALEY:  Yeah, I mean, I've always followed Lleyton.  He's a great guy, great mate.  Yeah, he's a wonderful player.  There's just plenty I can learn off him.  I'll flick it on and cheer him on. 


End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT