AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 17, 2006
Nathan Healey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  First question, please.  
 
 
Q.  When were you first aware that he had a problem?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  As soon as he shook hands.  I had no idea up until then.  I don't know.  I felt like I was well on top of him.  I think a heart muscle was pulled (laughter).  
 
Q.  Did he say anything to you?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  No, not at all, nothing.  Actually, he didn't even shake my hand (laughter).  Yeah, there you go.  
 
Q.  Do you know now what the issue was with him?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  No, I'm not sure.  He had ice like, I don't know, kind of on his arm here.  I don't know.  I'll take a win, though.  
 
Q.  What was the atmosphere like out there on the court?  There was quite a big crowd.  Were you really enjoying the whole atmosphere?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  I was loving it.  It's always a great time of year to play, you know, tennis.  With all the Aussie support, yeah, it's a good feeling.  
 
Q.  Did you feel any pressure coming into today?  You were up against a seed.  Hasn't been a great couple of days for Australia. 
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  Yeah, no, I mean, I learned a lot from last year's match.  I was out there on one of the show courts.  I felt a little overawed by that situation because I hadn't really played singles on such a big stadium.  Yeah, I learned a lot from that.  Also last week in Sydney when I played Clement.  I took that experience, you know, put it into practice out there, played well.  
 
Q.  You grabbed the ascendancy in the match really quickly.  You got the first break very quickly on in the first set.  What did you feel was going right for you today?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  I mean, I had a game plan to basically use my legs early in the match, just make a lot of balls.  Before that, in previous matches, I'd been going for way too much, too early, putting myself in a confusing situation.  Today I was just playing, you know, hitting that yellow ball inside the lines and, yeah, using my tank, working hard.  Once I get a sweat up, I feel like I can get my teeth into the match.  
 
Q.  In terms of the things you've done in your singles career, where does it sit? 
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  Yeah, I mean, a win at the Australian Open's always a big thing.  You know, I'm still working my way up.  It's really only been two years that I've given singles a good go.  It was always going to take a little bit of time.  I've ridden a few ups and downs.  It's certainly an up at the moment.  I plan to roll with it.  
 
Q.  Is this the first time you won a Grand Slam match?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  Last year also.  But other than that, yeah, I haven't played qualifying in any of the other events yet.  Yeah, I haven't.  The Australian Open's the only Grand Slam that I've played.  But it was all doubles before that.  
 
Q.  Do you have like a burning ambition for singles?  At the moment, you're happy playing?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  No, yeah, I've got plenty of drive.  I know I have the ability.  I have the shots, for sure.  It's just working out a few things with the mind.  I'm learning, you know, with every match.  I've played a few top guys this year.  It's certainly helping.  I'm really seeing what I have to do.  You know, I can see that I can definitely make it inside that top hundred, top 50. 
 
Q.  The reason you haven't played Grand Slam events, your ranking hasn't been high enough?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  Exactly, exactly.  I've just been on the challenger circuit.  I've been working my way up.  My ranking has gone from 350 to 240 within the year.  Like this year, I should be definitely inside those qualifying events.  Hopefully I can keep rolling and then, you know, get inside that main draw as quickly as possible.  
 
Q.  You had some good results on the challenger circuit in the US towards the end of last year.  Played quite a few matches.  Chris yesterday said it wore him down a bit physically.  For you, was it the best thing for you?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  Yeah, I feel like when I'm playing a lot more matches, I tend to do better.  So, yeah, I like to play a lot of tennis.  Yeah, the more I play, the more beneficial it is.  
 
Q.  You spoke about your fitness being a key today, that you wanted to keep the ball in play, use your legs.  Do you think that's an opportunity for particularly Australian players who have been working in the summer to maybe catch a few of the European players off guard that haven't done that work?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  Sure.  Yeah, I mean, there's been a lot of work put in over December.  Myself personally, like when I -- it's almost like I get lazy out there sometimes.  Once I get the body flowing, the blood pumping, I tend to do better.  Yeah, I just -- I see the game much more clearly when my legs are moving.  Yeah, it's definitely been beneficial working hard in December.  
 
Q.  Have you looked forward to the next round?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  Yeah.  I just had a look now.  I play the winner of Starace and Delic, the American wildcard.  I actually had a battle with Delic last year in about February/March.  I lost a 14-12 in the third-set tiebreaker in a challenger in Dallas.  I know how he plays.  I haven't seen much of Potito Starace.  Yeah, I mean, if I just continue playing like I am, I think I definitely have a chance to win that match.  
 
Q.  That match, will you go and scout that match, have a look?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  I might not hang around for too long.  I might send someone else out to have a look at it.  But, yeah, someone will be out there keeping an eye, giving me a game plan.  
 
Q.  Who are you working with?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  Well, Tennis Australia set up a coach in Bernie Gerlitz (phonetic).  Also my father is here, who has coached me since I was nine years old.  He knows my game inside-out, back-to-front.  It's good having him here.  Yeah, I've got a few other voices.  Yeah, had a lot of help coming in.  
 
Q.  Who supplied the post-match drink today?  A family member?
 
NATHAN HEALEY:  No, yeah, that was a friend from school actually.  Just a bit of fun.  
 

End of FastScripts….

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT