LPGA CORNING CLASSIC
May 27, 2004
Michelle Estill
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
PAUL ROVNAK:  Thanks for coming in and joining us.  It's 67, that's your best round of the year so far.  That's 5-under, and puts you right near the top of the leaderboard.  That's always a nice place to be.  If you can go ahead and give us an opening comment and we'll take some questions from there.
MICHELLE ESTILL:  I actually hit it probably the best I hit it all year.  I struggled so much last year that I really don't know what to expect from myself, but I was even impressed for me.  It was kind of fun, it was like every hole I felt like I could make a birdie, just fire at the pin, and I actually hit some really good shots.  I missed a couple of short putts out there, too.   I was really happy with the way the day went.
Q.  A lot of players are playing well, the scores are five, six.  A number of players are there.  Talk about the course.  Is the course playing well?  Are conditions good today?
MICHELLE ESTILL:  I think so.  It's in the best shape I've seen it in the 14 years I've been playing.  The greens are smooth, there are alot of grass on them.  The fairways are in excellent shape.  You almost always have a good lie.  And I think they've cut them down a little bit from the beginning of the week.  They're rolling at a really good speed.  They're holding their line.  The golf course is conducive to good scores today.  Not much wind, either, so that always helps.
Q.  As you compare this course to others that you've played at this time of year and in this neck of the woods, can you make that comparison for us?
MICHELLE ESTILL:  Actually we played near the City, New York last week and it was in probably the best shape I've seen it.  You guys know how it is.  May is a miss or hit month.  We've been out here when there's been more mud showing than grass.  I think it depends on the winter.  The groundskeeping crew has done a fabulous job.  So far in this part of the country where it's been iffy, it's in excellent shape.
Q.  Looks like the weather forecast is going to hold, if we can believe that.  Can you keep it up if these conditions stay the same?
MICHELLE ESTILL:  I have no idea.  You never know.  It's feast or famine for me.  I might shoot 67 or 75.  It just depends.  Today I was pretty fortunate.  I didn't have what I called the "Corning Curse," almost always hit it under a tree.  But they've been nice enough to cut some of those branches up off the ground over the years.  On 18 I hit it kind of under a tree just off the fairway on the right that under normal conditions it went all the way to the ground you wouldn't be able to get a shot.  But since they've cut some of those up you don't get some of the those unlucky breaks where you've just got to punch it out.  But fortunately I kept it in play and didn't have a "Corning shot" as I call it.
Q.  Part of the strategy for you is just mainly stay out of trouble?
MICHELLE ESTILL:  Just to stay aggressive.  Hitting my irons, I feel so good with my irons, and I'd like to stay aggressive.  And actually for me I putted well, even the 3-putt I had on 14, I hit the second putt just where I wanted to and just misread it.  I'd like to just keep it up, keep aggressive with my irons.  You need to attack out here, everybody else is going to be shooting some good numbers so you can't ease up.  I'd like to come out and keep being aggressive.
PAUL ROVNAK:  Go over the birdies and bogeys.
MICHELLE ESTILL:  I birdied No. 1.  I hit 5-iron, and knocked it about 18 feet.

Birdied No. 2, had 4-iron in, just on the front, I 2-putted from 25 feet.

Birdied 5, par-5, I had about 35, 40-footer.

Birdied 7, 6-iron in and knocked it about 4 feet.

Birdied 12, just short of the green in 2, chipped it up to about three feet, four feet and made the putt.

Bogeyed 14, knocked it over the pin with a gap wedge, had about a 15-footer and then I missed about a four or five footer coming back.

Birdied 16, hit pitching wedge to about ten feet.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT