JOHN DEERE CLASSIC
July 13, 2019
Sepp Straka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Good day, huh?  
SEPP STRAKA: It was.   
 Q.  Nice finish and everything.  
SEPP STRAKA: Yeah, an all-around good one, yeah.   
 Q.  Things fell into place for you today?  
SEPP STRAKA: Yeah, I felt like I was kind of just getting better and better as the week went on.  First day I did not hit the ball very well at all and just kind of scrapped it together and still managed to shoot under par.  And then yesterday hit a lot of great shots, and unfortunately made some bad swings on the back nine.  And then today it just kind of all came together.   
 Q.  Would I be correct in guessing you've never been this high on the leaderboard going into the last day?  Probably not very often anyway.  
SEPP STRAKA: I don't know where I am, but I'm sure it's going to change.  The leaders haven't even teed off yet.   
 Q.  You're like fourth or fifth right now, but you could still be top 10 by the end of the day I would think.  
SEPP STRAKA: No, looking forward to it.  It would be fun.   
 Q.  Do you have a sense of momentum right now?  Seems like you're figuring out the course a little more with each round.  
SEPP STRAKA: Yeah, like I said, my game has just kind of been building all week.  First day I went from hitting it terrible to today really hitting it really good.  One of my better ball-striking rounds that I've had this year.  Yeah, I mean, I'm definitely feeling some momentum going into tomorrow.   
 Q.  I was reading you're the only player on TOUR ever from Austria, right?  Tell me what golf is Austria is like.  
SEPP STRAKA: So we've got a whole bunch of different types of courses over there because more than half the country is in the Alps so we've got a bunch of courses in the mountains that you do not want to walk on.  They're brutal to walk.  But there's some pretty good courses out there, especially in the mountains.  You get some of the best views of golf courses that you can really get in the world.  And then in the eastern part of the country, which is where I grew up, in Vienna, it's more flatland, so you'll have more courses that are parkland style, kind of U.S. style courses.   
 Q.  Does it get this hot there?  
SEPP STRAKA: In the summers it got really hot but not this humid.   
 Q.  You see all these guys that are 5'10", 160 and 5'8", 150.  You're a big guy.  
SEPP STRAKA: Yeah.   
 Q.  Is that an advantage, disadvantage?  
SEPP STRAKA: I don't think it really matters.  Golf is such a -- all that counts is getting the ball in the hole, whether you're tall, skinny, short, big.  There's no real formula to it.  That's why golf is kind of a special game.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT