VALSPAR CHAMPIONSHIP
March 21, 2019
Sepp Straka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. First time coming here, seeing this event as a professional and you're able to get to 5-under par, so strong and no bogeys also in this first round.
SEPP STRAKA: Yeah, no bogeys is always nice, especially a tough course like this.  You really just got to put yourself in some good spots.  It's easy to get sideways on this course and I was able to do that today.
Q. Tell me how that putt on 18 doesn't fall in for you on that left edge to get to 6-under.
SEPP STRAKA: I don't know.  I thought it was perfect.  I thought it was just going to drop in the high edge.  But I had a couple go through out the rest of the round so give and take.
Q. We saw your caddie's bib and on the name plate on the back it said Ox.  O X.  Is there a story there?
SEPP STRAKA: It's my college nickname, I've always been Ox.  I don't know if you've ever seen Stripes, it's from that movie, John Candy plays a character and his name's Ox in the movie, so that's where I got it.
Q. Opening comment on that 5-under 66 today.
SEPP STRAKA: Yeah, really putted well.  The putter was key.  Made a lot of birdie putts and just keeping the ball under the hole is key, it's huge out here.  It was pretty stress free.  I rammed a putt on 16 by about 10 feet, that wasn't very fun, but other than that it was pretty, seemed pretty easy, but thanks to my iron play, it was really strong today.
Q. Are you at any bit surprised at how easy it felt for you your first round out here and Valspar?
SEPP STRAKA: I've been hitting my irons really well and I know this is a course that if you're hitting your irons well you can kind of attack it, if you bet the ball in play.  So my driver's been a little bit streaky, when it's good, it's good and I was able to get the ball in some good spots and so I could take advantage of that with my irons.
Q. You had a 63 earlier this season at Safeway, ended up finishing tied for 46.  How do you kind of build off of what you learned there?
SEPP STRAKA: This is a different event, it's a new event but, yeah, the golf course changed so much that week from the first two days to the weekend, it firmed up a lot and I just really wasn't prepared for that.  So really just go into every day and try to shoot the best score I can.
Q. 5-under today, what does it do for the confidence going into tomorrow?
SEPP STRAKA: It's nice.  It's always nice to get off to a good start and yeah, for confidence, it's always nice to show, with a score, how well you're striking the ball and putting.  So, yeah, it's always nice to get off to a good start.
Q. What did you like about this course?  I assume it's the first time you played this course, I know it's the first time at the Valspar, what played into your hand?
SEPP STRAKA: I played a junior event here about eight or nine years ago, way back when, so I knew it a little bit, but I couldn't really remember much and it's playing so different this week.  It's a great test of golf.  If you hit bad shots you'll get punished, if you hit good shots you'll get rewarded.  So it really is a good golf course.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT