U.S. AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 17, 2015
Sepp Straka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Let's talk about that first.  You played in the Amateur in '12 and didn't make it the last two years.  Is there something about that that's bothered you until this point to get back here again?  
SEPP STRAKA: I went through a little chipping issue there.  I think it was the year after I made the Am the last time, 2013 I think it was, that kind of kept my confidence a little low.  But over the last year, really, I got a lot of playing time last year at Georgia, and that helped out a lot, qualifying for tournaments for Georgia, and yeah, just built on my confidence, and here I am.   
 Q.  Was there any specific thing with your short game that you were able to correct recently?  
SEPP STRAKA: Yeah, I mean, over the last two years my chipping has gotten a lot better.  I mean, it's ridiculous how much it's increased.  But yeah, that's basically the main difference, and once you're -- if you're having trouble hitting greens from off the green, you're just trying to hit the middle of the green, you're not making any birdies, your confidence drops in your entire game pretty much, but that definitely gave me a little bit of confidence boost, and now I'm able to utilize my game.   
 Q.  How confident are you now after shooting a 67 here today?  
SEPP STRAKA: Pretty confident.  I didn't make many mistakes out there, and when I did, I got up-and-down or I hit it out in the fairway and made my par.  I was bogey-free today, so I felt pretty good out there today.   
 Q.  Tell me about the birdies at 16 and 17, which was your front side.  
SEPP STRAKA: Let me think about 16 and 17.  Oh, okay, 16 I hit a 3-wood off the tee and I hit it a little better than I anticipated.  I hit it even with that bunker that's about 300 yards out from the tee box.  And then I just hit a little flip wedge in to about 15, 12 feet and made a putt from behind the hole.   
And then the next hole, I actually thought I missed my drive right, and it carried long enough to carry all those trees, and I had 117 into the hole, and just a wide-open shot, hit it about four feet and made the putt.  But yeah, played pretty solid today.   
 Q.  What's your mindset now knowing that it's just about getting into match play?  Are you one of those guys who wants to keep the pedal moving forward?  
SEPP STRAKA: I'm just going to try to keep executing my plan and just try not to worry about my score or anybody else's score and just basically keep plugging along and see where I end up.   
 Q.  When you have your teammates leading the play out here rooting you on here at the end, does that help you?  Is that motivation?  
SEPP STRAKA: Absolutely.  It's awesome.  We're a really close bunch on the team, and it's great having those guys around and rooting you on all summer, and just spending time with them is really a lot of fun.   
  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT