NCAA MEN'S FIRST FOUR: DAYTON
March 14, 2016
Ron Baker
Fred VanVleet
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR: We're now joined by Wichita State athletes Fred VanVleet and Ron Baker.  Questions?
Q. Obviously you look at the roster, Vanderbilt has a seven-footer, 7'1" that they start.  What's been your experience when you deal with that size advantage, if it is a disadvantage?
RON BAKER: We haven't had many seven-footers this year, as far as our opponent.  Zimmerman from UNLV rings a bell and Poeltl from Utah, probably the only two that we faced this year.  We're fairly, pretty successful against them.  We got a couple of five-men in our rotation.  So trying to wear them out, get them away from the basket.  Put them in ball screens, things like that.  But Vanderbilt is a big team.  And it's going to be a tough -- I think, hopefully, an advantage for us if he's on the court, but it will be a tough thing to go against.
FRED VANVLEET: I mean, it's going to be a challenge.  Obviously those guys are really good, regardless of their size.  So we know that coming in.  We've got -- we just try to bring our fives in in waves and just try to wear them down.  I think maybe try to play some of our depth in that position.  It's going to take a group effort.  But we faced challenges this year.  So I think we'll be pretty prepared for it.  Just try to come ready to play tomorrow.  And as far as disadvantage/advantages they have.  There are pros and cons of having those big guys and we have ours.  It's just a matter of who can exploit what the best.  But, like I said, those guys are really good.  And I think our bigs are up for the challenge.
Q. You guys have a good rebounding team.  With that undersize, does it -- what do your bigs do well that can match up, that can be an advantage against a seven-footer?
RON BAKER: Like Fred said, our fives, we play in waves.  We don't have a five-man that plays probably over 27 minutes a game.  So our idea is to be fresh in your end, play as hard as you can.  Don't need you on the court for six or seven minutes at a time.  It's just two or three good minutes.  And if we can play in waves and rebound the basketball like we have been this season, our defense is playing at a pretty decent level right now.  Those are two big factors that go into basketball games in March, defense and rebounding.
Q. Fred, are there some things that you can do and maybe have done in practice to help some shooters' confidence, help them feel better about themselves coming into this game?
FRED VANVLEET: One, you just get in the gym for guys that are struggling.  Everybody, honestly.  Myself included.  Just get in the gym.  That's always a first step, get shots up, start to where you can trust your routine, trust your confidence.  As teammates, you just keep encouraging guys and keep staying in their ears.  We have good shooters on this team that have just struggled as of late, and hopefully things start going our way.  And the other thing it's pretty contagious.  So when one guy starts making them, it just lifts the whole team and catches on pretty quick.  So as quick as it can go bad, it can turn good, you know, at the snap of a finger.  So this week I think guys did a good job of taking their time, putting the time in, getting shots up.  So hopefully we'll have a better showing tomorrow.  But our deal around here has always been defensive rebounding.  So we'll lean on that and hopefully make some shots.
Q. You said your deal has always been defensive rebounding, but how maddening or frustrating when you hold a team in the 50s and don't pull out those victories?
RON BAKER: Most of our losses this year have been us scoring in the 50s.  And our defense and rebounding really wasn't that bad.  We just weren't able to execute on the offensive end and knock down our shots.  And part of the reason is from our lack of execution and our lack of spacing on the court.  Things we've seen in film can be easily fixed.  And we've been focusing on that all this past week, had really competitive practices.  And hopefully we can translate those practices into this tournament.
Q. Ron, how important is it for the defense to maybe create some turnovers and make things easier for the offense?
RON BAKER: Your first offensive possession in scoring matter for us is usually off our defense.  We like to get in the passing lanes, get turnovers, easy baskets.  Like Fred said earlier, that can get your team morale going pretty well.  And after that it's kind of a confidence factor.  Once you get an easy layup, an easy two, your confidence gets going, not only for yourself but for the team.
And that's when shots usually start falling is when your mindset's in the right direction.
THE MODERATOR: Thank you.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT