BLUE BAY LPGA
October 22, 2016
Kelly Shon
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Really great round yesterday.  You had a double-bogey in the second round but you bounced back with four birdies afterwards. Your score yesterday of 66, this year, it's the second-lowest score that we've had so far, so something to really be proud about.  What worked for you yesterday out on the field?
KELLY SHON: Well, I think you kind of have to put into perspective that I shot 6-over the first day.  I think when you have such a bad round, it's easy for you to start making changes and letting yourself know that it's okay, I don't need to linger on to anything that I have right now.
You can totally make a 180-degree change there.  I think that helped.  I think I started letting go -- I've been working on some swing changes and I started letting go of that, just played with what I had, because this golf course already has so much for you to think about, and to add another factor to that has been just -- is really mind, just, draining.
So after letting that go, putting kind of started coming together.  It's easier when you have 10-footers instead of 30-footers for birdie, too.  I think that's really all.  And also, this golf course, the greens are, on paper, pretty large.
But when you actually really play it, it's kind of small because it's sectioned off by big ridges throughout the greens, and you've got to putt yourself in the right corners or else you're kind of screwed.
So I think a little better at course management and a little better mind-set going into it is what kind of helped me with that 66.
Q. Going into tomorrow, how do you think you'll try to relive yesterday?  Will your approach be different coming into tomorrow than it was today?
KELLY SHON: Are we talking about today or tomorrow?
Q. Tomorrow.
KELLY SHON: Sunday?  Honestly I thought the golf course played a little bit different, even though weather-wise, which is usually a big factor here, it didn't change much.  But something about the pin locations or something just played a little bit difficult today.
So I don't know what it's going to be like.  It could be easier or it could be the same.  But like I said, I think what I'm going to do is try to stick with my course management plan and just try to stay calm and patient, because it really tests that here.
Q. I know it's been about two years since you graduated school.  How has it been different playing full-time versus not having to juggle studies and golf?  Do you feel like -- some people would say having the academic bent actually helps them focus playing golf.  Do you find that no longer having to focus on full-time studies helps or it has a negative impact, as well?
KELLY SHON: I'm definitely in the middle of the spectrum there, because I also believe, for me, at least -- everyone is different I guess.  But for me, because for so long I've had to juggle between academics and playing golf, that it's become part of my just how I plan things and how my mind works.  It's always kind of busy now.  So right now I'm trying to learn how to fill that gap with something else, which is kind of difficult, because it was such a big part of my life.
But at the same time, now I can actually practice.  So hopefully I'm just getting better and making progress.  That's all I can hope for.
Q. What do you think you're going to fill that gap with then?
KELLY SHON: I talk to my friends a ton and I still read a lot of books and magazines.  People have actually told me before coming on to the tour, it's very crucial to have a hobby and have something that you can relax with.  I've actually yet to find something that I can do routinely while on the road.  Because we're here and there, we don't really have that much time to have an extensive hobby.  So it's been a challenge, but if you have any recommendations, I'm open for it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT