NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINAL: DUCKS VS PREDATORS
May 11, 2017
Ryan Getzlaf
Ryan Kesler
Cam Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Ryan, Randy alluded to it when he was up here that, okay, now you go from behind last night and clearing a hurdle to trying to now turn the page and come down from that; what kind of challenge is that in terms of the process of kind of coming down from --
RYAN KESLER: To be honest it isn't too hard.  It was a hard-fought game last night.  We were finally of the right head with it, and today we came in, had a really good meeting, and -- we had a meeting and we reset, and we're getting ready for Nashville.
Q. Do you want to talk some more about Connor McDavid?
RYAN KESLER: No.
Q. I guess you two, prepping for Ryan Johansen, what kind of challenge does he bring and the rest of the Nashville Predators?
CAM FOWLER: Obviously he's a great player.  We're going to have to pay attention to what he's doing.  Like every star player in this league, he's a threat when he's on the ice, so we're going to have to pay attention to that, and we'll address our game plan as the day goes on here, I guess.
RYAN GETZLAF: Yeah, same.  Same.  Good player.  You've got to be aware of him.
Q. What are your observations about the difference between last year's team and this year's team and the way guys have been able to bounce back?
RYAN KESLER: Yeah, I always think it's hard measuring a team from year to year.  I think the difference with this team is I think it started with coming back against LA late in the year and doing it again against Calgary, and just having that mindset of always making -- that we have a chance to come back, and that's been the difference this year, I think.  The coaches have done a good job of being positive on the bench, and it breeds confidence in our group, and we just go with it.
Q. Cam, could you just address the challenge of facing Nashville, a talented group of forwards, obviously a very mobile D that likes to jump on?  What's that going to be like for you guys?
CAM FOWLER: Yeah, it's going to be a big-time challenge for our group.  They seem to be playing as well as anybody right now, and they're ultra, ultra aggressive in everything that they do, so we're going to have to make sure that we're on top of our game.  The one thing, though, is we've seen teams so far who have aggressive defensemen who like to push the pace of the play, so we kind of have a mindset for that.  But these guys do it just as well as those teams do, so it's something that we're going to have to be aware of.
Q. Getz, talk about playing again right away after last night, good, bad, were you hoping maybe you'd have an additional day or so?
RYAN GETZLAF: Well, I mean, it's good and bad.  It's the same with everything.  We have all these talks, and it's great if we're able to perform.  It's not so good if we don't.  We'll find out tomorrow.  But it's one thing when you finish a series, you don't really get to relax at all, so you kind of stay alert, stay in the moment, and for us it's just another prep day.  I think when you're talking about going from series to series, at times you tend to relax a little bit too much, maybe overprepare for a team instead of worrying about yourselves.  There's all different scenarios you can look at, but the fact is it is what it is, and we've got to be ready to play?
Q. Getzy, obviously you were part of the '07 team, and you guys are halfway there now, but have you thought about what it would mean to win another Cup as a captain, the leader of a team?
RYAN GETZLAF: Yeah, I think about it every day.  That's ultimately what the goal is every time I come to the rink at the start of every season is to end up in the Finals and have a chance to play for it.  It having been so long ago, you kind of look back on those things, and this year was one of those years where it was a little bit different because we had the anniversary and stuff this year, so I got to talk to some of the guys I hadn't seen in a long time, and it brings back a lot of good memories and things that I'd like to do with this group.  Having the group that we have, it's an exciting time for us.
Q. How do you imagine it being different?
RYAN GETZLAF: Honestly, the role thing, people ask me about that all the time.  The role thing is really irrelevant to me at any point.  It doesn't mean any more to be the captain of a team that wins, to me.  The media and stuff may bring stuff up about it and make you a better leader, so to speak.  But being part of a group that wins a championship is because it's a group.  It's the group you're with, whether it's the littlest moment throughout the game, the littlest play, make big plays seem small.  I remember we had guys that didn't play for us all year that came up and made big contributions in the Finals, and you need the whole group.  The whole role thing is kind of irrelevant to me.
Q. I remember in '07 you guys weren't afraid to talk about the Cup.  Obviously you're focused on this series, but are you at that point now where you're not afraid to talk about it and envision it maybe?
RYAN GETZLAF: I think you envision it all the time.  As soon as we enter the Playoffs, I think you have to have that mindset that that's what we're playing for.  Every series is about building towards that, and every game for that matter.  To be talked about in this kind of a different term, I guess, and whether we're going to actually grab the Cup and hold it and do those things, so it's -- we're building towards something.  We're never looking past anybody.  We know we've got a tough road ahead of us here, and we've got to make sure that we're ready for this Game 1, and we'll worry about the rest after.
Q. There's been a lot of talk this season about how Randy has changed.  Has he really changed, or is this kinder, gentler Randy thing sort of a myth?
CAM FOWLER: I think all the fundamentals and everything that he believes in are all the same.  I think he's softened a little bit, just based on some of the things with the rookies and stuff like that.  But at the end of the day, he's a demanding coach who brings the best out of his players.  He's always going to be that way.  That's how he's been successful.  So I've noticed a little change in that, but for the most part, he's pretty much the same.
Q. Just a simple question:  It's Nashville, there's the reason for the playoff history, obviously.  Does this opponent provide some extra fuel at all for you guys?
RYAN KESLER: Yeah.  You know, I think they're the team that put us out last year.  Obviously it's a new year, new teams.  For some of us, it means a little bit more.  But we're all playing for the same thing, and right now it's about getting four wins before they do, and it's going to be a tough road, but we're up to it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT