NHL WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: BLACKHAWKS v DUCKS
May 26, 2015
Cam Fowler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Cam, what does it say about your team that you guys were able to take that moment of that Toews goal and move beyond it as quick as you guys did?   
CAM FOWLER:   Yeah, I mean, I think it says a lot.   I think a lot of us would be lying if we said we weren't a little bit stunned after that happened.   You feel like you're in a great spot.   
But you have to credit them.   They have the same resiliency and attitude we do, and they never quit.   
I think the main thing is when we got in that locker room, we got a little bit angry, you know, a little bit mad.   Bruce has talked about that all year.   When we play angry and we play with a little bit of an edge, that's when we're at our best.   
We weren't going to let that one slip away.   Kes comes up with a big play in overtime and Matty buries the rebound.   I'm just proud of the guys for battling through it and never giving up, no matter what happens.   
   
 Q.   Has Freddie given you any doubt about him going into Game 6?  
CAM FOWLER:   No, not at all.   I mean, there's obviously times through the playoffs, any player, no matter who you are, there's going to be mistakes made.   
I think if you talked to Freddie, he'd say that he would maybe want one or two of those back.   
Freddie's a guy that's been an absolute rock for us all season long, so...   
There's going to be nights like that every once in a while.   By no means have we lost any confidence or anything.   He's our guy.   He's won us a lot of hockey games throughout the year.   We're happy to have him back there.   
We know he's going to respond and have a great Game 6.   
   
 Q.   Cam, with nine goals allowed in the last couple games, is it a result of breakdowns or do you chalk a lot of it up to Chicago's talent, as well?  
CAM FOWLER:   Yeah, I mean, I think it's a little bit of both.   They definitely put a lot of pressure on you, on us, defensively because they have a lot of speed and they like to stretch you out, use those long passes to their advantage, which kind of takes away our gaps, allows them to get their speed.   
I think there's a lot of things, too, some breakdowns here and there that we've had, a couple shifts in a row, when they seem to be coming at us, coming at us, we can't seem to get the changes we need, get people off the ice who are tired.   I think it's a little bit of both.   I think there's things we can obviously clean up.   
But they're here for a reason, too.   They're a great hockey team.   You have to expect them to get their chances, as well.   
But there's definitely things we can work on and improve on for Game 6.   
   
 Q.   Corey, it's been eight years.   What does it feel like to be this close?   
COREY PERRY:   It's exciting.   You only get this chance so many times.   You remember those times that you've had success and you've gone to the next step.   
We have a great opportunity going into Chicago.   To be this close, everybody in this room knows where we are, where we stand, what the game's going to be like.   
You have to go in there and you have to believe that you can win in that building again.   That's the approach we're going to take, is to go in and play the same way we did in the first period.   Put the second and third period behind us, but play that forechecking style, shoot the puck, get on their D.   
It was effective last night and that's how we have to continue to do it.   
   
 Q.   Jakob, how much pressure is it on you guys to get it done tomorrow?   
JAKOB SILFVERBERG:   I don't think there's a lot of pressure.   Obviously you want to get that fourth win, but it doesn't matter when you get it.   Obviously it would be nice to get it there.   It's a tough building.   They're a great team.   But so are we.   We're going to make sure we do our best to get it there tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   Cam, can you talk about the path you had that set up the winning goal?   
CAM FOWLER:   Kind of a broken play.   I think it was Bickell tried to dump the puck in.   It kind of hit Beauch, managed to bounce right on my stick.   I just turned around, Kes and Beleskey were on a two‑on‑one.   I just tried to get it up there as quick as possible.   It turned out pretty good.   
   
 Q.   Do you agree with Cam when he said the sentiment in the locker room going in before overtime that you were angry?   
CAM FOWLER:   I think so.   I think when you have that 3‑0 lead, you slowly see it evaporate, you get angry.   You don't hang your head.   You don't sulk.   You get angry and you thrive in those situations.   You know that you can score goals on that team.   
We had to go out and prove it in overtime.   We didn't want it to be a long one.   Thankfully it happened in the first minute.   
   
 Q.   Corey, as you head into Chicago's building, how much confidence does it give you that we're 14 games into the playoffs and you haven't lost in regulation yet?  
COREY PERRY:   It's definitely confidence.   But it doesn't matter.   You've lost a few games, the next game you come back and you're hungry.   You know they're going to be hungry.   It's a tough building to play in, tough crowd.   
At the same time we're going to be ready.   We're going to use this day to be ready and prepared.   Hopefully tomorrow night we have our best.   
   
 Q.   Cam, when Freddie is at his best, is he talkative?   Do you see any difference in him now that might suggest he's fatigued?   
CAM FOWLER:   When Freddie's at his best, he seems to have this calmness about him.   He goes about his business.   But the main thing that you get from him being back there is a sense of security.   He seems to always be dialed in.   
I don't see any fatigue really.   Like I said, there's going to be bounces that happen throughout a playoff series, there's going to be things that you don't want to happen, there's going to be mistakes that are made.   
That's us as a team.   We go through those things as a team.   It's not an individual thing.   There's always things that we can clean up together as a unit.   
You know, like I've always been saying, Freddie's our rock back there.   He's a huge reason why we're here and why we're in this position.   
I don't see anything wrong with him.   There's no fatigue or anything.   We got a win last night, that's all that matters.   We go on to Game 6 with Freddie as our number one guy and all the confidence in the world in him.   
   
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT