MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2017
Scott Gregory
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  SCOTT GREGORY: Actually I didn't feel that I actually hit that bad. I drove it probably the best I've driven it. Drove it quite nicely. And just wasn't able to make most of it, just hit it in the wrong spot. Yeah, it's frustrating. And I was annoyed all last night. But I knew I had to get off to a quick start. And eagled the second, which was pretty cool. But, again, in conditions like this you can't leave yourself in a position where you need to shoot 5 or 6‑under. There's only one guy that's done that. It's not an easy thing to do. But, it was okay. I wasn't that pleased last night but I'm happy with how I played today. And it sort of shows that I can do it.   
   
 Q. You think you had a point to prove today?  
SCOTT GREGORY: Not really a point to prove. I wanted to prove to myself, because I was a little bitticked off ‑‑ I played pretty good in the practice rounds and couldn't get it going yesterday. I had a few shots in the practice rounds that were actually not that hard. Even the chip on 18, I was actually practicing that chip the day before, and I couldn't get it within 15 foot. It's one of those frustrating things. But there's a lot to be learned if that, and I've learned a few different shots that Sandy was playing and Sean was playing. And I need to take the medicine a bit more. I played it longer the first, just chipped it to 30 feet and tried to make five. As soon as you start trying to get cute from the wrong spot you're asking for trouble. And I've done that a couple of times yesterday.   
   
 Q. Do you even get nervous around anybody out there?  
SCOTT GREGORY: I got nervous on the first tee shot, and that was the best shot I hit. It just went away. I tend to stay quite calm on the outside. I get a bit ticked off on myself inside. But I don't really like to show it. You've just got to plug away. I just had to stick in there and try to keep going. I couldn't turn things around. It was a bit of a struggle out there. Like I say, a lot of things to learn, and next time I come back I'll be better prepared to play.   
   
 Q. You mentioned the eagle, that must be the highlight of the two days?  
SCOTT GREGORY: Yeah, that was pretty cool. I think I get a little bit of glassware or something. That will be pretty cool to take that with me. I hit two great shots in. So that was just a great hole. I hit it great all day. I hit a couple of bad drives. Up 13 could have been the worst drive I hit.   
I've got a lot of positives to take from that, and a lot of things that me and Sandy can go away and work on.   
   
 Q. You played the last six holes in level par, as well?   
SCOTT GREGORY: Yeah, I probably should have played it in about4‑over. It's pretty good. I gave myself chances on the hole. Hit a great shot on 16 to leave it a fraction short.   
Same on 17. Probably few it a couple of yards too far. It was actually a pretty easy chip. But you've just got to hit it on the right line and I pulled it a touch. Yeah, to play the last holes the way I did, is a big positive.   
   
 Q. Talk about the putt on 18.  
SCOTT GREGORY: Yeah, and it's one of those putts that I've watched every year on TV. So you've got a rough idea what you've got to do. It would have been nice to drop.   
   
 Q. You say you're going to be back here?   
SCOTT GREGORY: Yeah, definitely. I think in the practice rounds this week I've shown that I've got the game to be able to play around here, I just need a few more shots and it takes a few times to go around there. I played on the practice rounds in flat calm. Like I said, a few of the shots that were actually pretty dead standard were pretty tough. I don't see any reason why I can't be back if I keep working hard and go on from here.   
   
 Q. The family‑‑ obviously there's a lot of members from home?   
SCOTT GREGORY: Yeah, definitely. And I could hear where they were, because they were shouting. It's pretty cool. It was nice to play a good round of golf in front of the people. And I think I've gained a lot of support from local people and people that came for the Masters. Hopefully I'll have fans for the rest of my career. So just building blocks trying to get better, and work on it over the weekend and just keep getting better, really.   
   
 Q. Are you going to try and play the U.S. Open?  
SCOTT GREGORY: Yes, I'm playing amateur until Walker Cup. That's my plan. So I'll play‑‑ yeah, I'll play at Muirfield Village in the Memorial. And then I'll play U.S. Open a couple weeks later, U.S. Am, and then keep going and get prepared for the Walker Cup.  
   
 Q. You mentioned Walker Cup?  
SCOTT GREGORY: It will be pretty sweet. It's a goal I've had quite a while. It's something that I'd love to do, and I think it sort of says that you've reached the pinnacle of the amateur game. That's something that I would like to have in my amateur career.   
   
 Q. What's it like playing in America? What have you learned about your game?  
SCOTT GREGORY: I think playing in America is different from playing here. I've played a lot of courses in America, and nothing like this. The shots you have to hit around the greens, the fringes are a bit sticky when you chip in. And also the greens are really quick and firm, so you can't lob it. So a mixture of a few different things around here. And that's what I've learned a few different things about. And need to go away and work on a few shots. Pitching is a big thing because my pitching wasn't very good today.   
   
 Q. Is that why you were pretty good in the British Open last year, were you in contention for a while?  
SCOTT GREGORY: I think we grew up to chip it on the floor. But when you have to actually start hitting if in the air it's hard to judge. And then when you add strong winds and stuff like that, I'm personally not used to having to hit it high and in strong winds. It's tricky, but other courses I've played in America I've adopted to quite well, I have to try to get back and give it another go.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT