THE 145TH OPEN
July 15, 2016
Scott Gregory
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  I've got to ask you, how was the experience?  
SCOTT GREGORY: Yeah, it was pretty incredible.  A bit up and down all the way around.  Went way off from leading The Open, and sort of battled back a little bit today, but unfortunately I was a fraction out all the way pretty much coming in.  But a lot of things that I've learned from the week, so I've enjoyed it quite a lot, yeah.   
 Q.  Did you feel you had a chance with those three birdies on the front nine that I might just close in?  
SCOTT GREGORY: Yeah, I was still confident until I made the 7 (laughing).  Apart from that, I don't know what the stats will say, but I pretty much missed two fairways and one of them I couldn't get to the green and the other one I lost the ball.  I haven't actually hit it as bad as what the score suggests, which is a bit unfortunate.  But I definitely felt like if I could just par some of the trickier holes, I had chances coming in.  I hit the hole pretty much every hole coming in.  So I'm not far away.   
 Q.  You haven't made the cut, but you have finished as the top amateur (inaudible).  
SCOTT GREGORY: Yeah, I'm pretty up for that, but obviously the aim was to make the cut.  So I'm a little bit gutted I didn't do that.  So I have a lot of things I've learnt this week, and I can work on them the next few weeks, so I'm looking forward to that.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
SCOTT GREGORY: I think it's massive.  I've learnt a lot from this week that I haven't learnt before.  As I think I've said earlier in the week, I've not played any challenge tours or even played with professional golfers before.  So it's good to sort of see where I am and I've got a reasonably long list of things that I want to go and work on.   
But all in all, I feel like I'm not far away.  So it's a big positive for me this week.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  How much of a help was Sandy Lyle?  
SCOTT GREGORY: Sandy was great.  We chatted all the way around and we had a good laugh on a lot of occasions, and he hit some class golf shots as well.  I really enjoyed his company, and it would be good to catch him another time as well.   
 Q.  The next match is the U.S. Open (Inaudible).  
SCOTT GREGORY: I reckon so.  I'll definitely go play in the Masters and we'll have to wait and see.  But I've got no plan at all at the moment as to when I want to turn pro.  I think I have a lot of things to take away and work on before I make that change.  If I turn pro today there's probably not a lot of point because I wouldn't be making a lot of money.  So I might as well wait until I feel like I'm ready.   
 Q.  Do you have a message for (Inaudible).  
SCOTT GREGORY: Yeah, just thanks for the support, and I gave it 100%, so I'm pretty proud of myself for that.  So I'm just going to keep working hard, probably harder than I've done before, and try to get myself to that next level.   
 Q.  When did you find out (inaudible)?  
SCOTT GREGORY: We found out walking to the key.  Duval was on the range, and yesterday he had trouble with his elbow or wrist or something in his right arm.  I didn't feel like the rain and the cold was probably going to be the best thing for him, so I wasn't surprised to see it.  Obviously a great shame.  I enjoyed his company yesterday.   
 Q.  One of the other things is sort of the mental toughness (inaudible).  Do you feel perhaps you learnt something on that specific hole that you can perhaps take away?  
SCOTT GREGORY: Not so much on the hole.  I just think there are a few things I need to work on, mainly left-to-right winds.  Yesterday I was just leaking it, and today I'm just flushing it straight through it.  So I need to do some work with that and there are a couple of other things as well.  The fact that it's front nine and back nine doesn't bother me.  I don't think that has anything to do with it.  I just hit a few dodgy golf shots and a few unfortunate breaks.   
 Q.  But yesterday there seemed to be a lot going on particularly on the 11th and it seemed to change your momentum or whatever.  Do you feel perhaps with a bit more experience you'd ride that a little bit better?  
SCOTT GREGORY: Yeah, definitely.  I like to review day by day how I'm doing.  So I've had a chat with my coach and people around me the last sort of 24 hours and we've discussed different ways that I can sort of get used to that sort of pressure, being on the clock, being in the bunkers.  As soon as I saw that, I started rushing.  So I just need to do a bit of work on making sure I'm within the times that I'm comfortable.  So if it does happen I'm not getting penalty shots.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
SCOTT GREGORY: Yeah, I've got quite a few.  I've definitely got that one to treasure.   
 Q.  (Inaudible).  
SCOTT GREGORY: No, but as I said yesterday, hopefully at some point in my career I'll be at the 72nd hole and not the 10th.  So we'll see what happens.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT