DAVIS CUP - BELGIUM vs USA
July 17, 1998
Filip Dewulf
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.  Got up a break in three of the four sets.  Just didn't seem to be able to capitalize the way you wanted. 
 
FILIP DEWULF:  Yeah.  Like I just said in French, I didn't feel really comfortable on this kind of surface.  I never felt like I was in control of the match.  I had a lot of occasions, but I didn't take all of them.  I took some of them, but not enough.  I think he played a pretty good match.  He stayed focused during three of the four sets.  He was too tough for me today. 
 

Q.  The unforced errors have anything to do with your lack of time here on the hard courts?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  No, I don't think so.  This is just not my kind of surface.  I mean, I didn't feel at ease on this surface.  A lot depends on your return and your serve. Those are two points - not my favorite strokes of my game.  I made a lot of unforced errors, especially on the service returns at important points.  Well, I don't think  that has anything to do with only the three or four days' practice that I had.  It's just a surface that I don't really like. 
 

Q.  At times it seemed like you were at odds with your own bench.  Was that the case?  Were you having words out there?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  No.  I was having words with myself all the time actually.  That's the way I express myself.  I always need eye contact with my coach.  I need to get some things out.  That's it. 
 

Q.  Did your captain give you any advice during the match, about things you should work on?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  Yeah, he did.  Well, he tried just to give me some advice on the points that weren't working that well at the moment, like my serve in the first set or my returns.  He tried to give a few little things that I could try to make it better. 
 

Q.  Helpful at all?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  Yeah. 
 

Q.  Any difference?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  Sometimes, yeah.  Not enough, I guess. 
 

Q.  Do you think they should do that?  They're experimenting with that on the tour.  Should you allow coaching in all the matches, do you think? 
 
FILIP DEWULF:  Well, I had the experience last week in Europe in Gstaad, ATP Tour tournament.  It worked out pretty well for me.  I think it's a good thing.  It makes the game a little more tactical if the coaches get involved.  It gives another level to the match, I guess. 
 

Q.  How was this atmosphere compared to other Davis Cup atmospheres?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  You mean today on the court? 
 

Q.  The atmosphere around.
 
FILIP DEWULF:  This was pretty normal. 
 

Q.  No big deal?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  No, no, nothing special. 
 

Q.  Playing in front of American fans, it isn't such a hostile environment playing here as opposed to maybe some other foreign country?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  Well, I wouldn't say hostile.  Some people said some stupid things, though (laughter). 
 

Q.  That's America.
 
FILIP DEWULF:  I wouldn't call it hostile, no. 
 

Q.  What about the doubles situation?  Do you expect to play?
 
FILIP DEWULF:  I'm not expecting to play doubles normally, no. 
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT