CHEEZ-IT BOWL: OKLAHOMA STATE VS MIAMI
December 29, 2020
Brennen Presley
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









Oklahoma State Cowboys 37, Miami Hurricanes 34
Q. Congrats on a career day, talk to us what it was like to come out with 118 yards and three touchdowns?  Gundy said you suffered a significant injury but came back.  Talk about that.
BRENNEN PRESLEY:   It was just one of those things that you pick up in practice and so like great training staff, took some time off.  Actually my first practice was I think Saturday, probably Saturday and Sunday.  That was all.  And just coming out here -- last game as a senior, so tried to give him most of the reps.
Coach Dunn told us some of the young guys will be in the second half as a way to bring in the new year and get the young guys some reps, but if you would have told me I'd have this type of game and all that, never would have believed it.
Q. What did you learn from the older guys this season?
BRENNEN PRESLEY:   Learned a lot.  I learned how to be a leader.  I learned how to deal with teammates, how to do things the right way.  Just being around all those guys, they really became like my best friends this year and they helped me with things on the field and off the field and teaching me stuff.
And it's genuine.  It's not something like they feel that they have to do.  They are all great guys so they all genuinely want to see not only me but the other young guys, they want to see us do good.  Their character and things is why this is a great program and why it will continue to be a great program and I think I can do my due diligence to them by just carrying on what they did.
It's going to be a hard task to try and surpass them and just try to bring that energy and the leadership that they did, but you know, they gave me a great path and just gave me great tools to use for the younger guys coming up.
Q. At what point tonight did you start to realize this had a chance to be one of those nights for you?
BRENNEN PRESLEY:   I think after the second touchdown -- no, no.  Actually after the touchdown where I stepped out -- I was like, okay, this could be one of those nights.  But I was more focused on just cherishing the moment and everything that happened, whether I had a good game or not because you know like I said, Dillon and Landon and Tylan, they are like my best friends now, so like it was just cherishing those moments on the game, cherishing those moments in the game.  Just give them a good send-off and not to think too much of myself but to get the win and celebrate after.
Q. Coach Gundy was talking earlier and said he wasn't surprised; this is stuff he had seen in the three or four years of high school that he watched you.  Did it feel a little bit like high school?  Did it feel like that?  The numbers kind of back that case up a little bit?
BRENNEN PRESLEY:   It felt a little bit like high school, I'm not going to lie.  But also, you're playing Miami, number 18 team in the country, and they are always known for having a great team and just coming into this game, they told us in the scouting report, they have great athletes all over the field.
So me going out there and doing that, it gives me a great sense of confidence to like know that I, you know, the things that I did in high school, I can still do now.  And it gives me confidence to try and improve on that going into next year.
Q. You talked about the opportunity that you as well as some of the other receivers were able to get tonight, and so I was just curious, what's your outlook kind of on the receiver group for next year going forward?
BRENNEN PRESLEY:   I just think we're hungry but we're ready.  Those leaders, they played this whole year.  So we had a whole year under our belt to just learn from them and even in practice, you know, to see what they do, see how they do things the right way, showing up on time, being that leader, being that voice.
So I think coming into next year, we'll have just a bunch of guys who want to step up and who want to make those same plays.  They want to not be the guy but they want to help us win collectively.  Like, no one is selfish in the receiver group.  We all want to see each other win.  I just think we have a really tight, close-knit receiver group, so it will help us going into next year so that everyone can excel and do well.
Q. Did you break news about Landon earlier?  Is Landon coming back?  You said he was done.
BRENNEN PRESLEY:   Did I?  I don't know.  No, I think he's done.  He's fifth-year season.
Q. Curious if you knew something we didn't.
BRENNEN PRESLEY:   Yeah, he's done.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT