ATLANTIC COAST CONFERENCE CHAMPIONSHIP GAME: FLORIDA STATE v GEORGIA TECH
November 26, 2012
Dustin Hopkins
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   You played in the championship game two years ago.   Of course it didn't go your way, but what do you remember about that experience?   Can that be any kind of advantage to you this time around? 
DUSTIN HOPKINS:   Any time you can get experience doing something, I think it's a benefit.   That being said, Georgia Tech is a great team, and I mean, their offense is scary.   In regards to whether we've been there or not two years ago, I don't think it's going to be a huge impact on this game.   But I do remember it was cold and it was like freezing rain, and the elements were definitely something both teams had to deal with and get used to. 
So we'll see what the weather is like, and I mean, two southern teams playing, and we'll see how they handle the cold. 

Q.   Also, games of this nature quite often place kickers have an important role in the outcome.   In your career you've seemed to relish those moments.   Is that still true? 
DUSTIN HOPKINS:   Yeah, I think in a position like kicker or something like that, the last basketball shot, whatever it may be, you have to want to be in that moment and want the ball on your foot or in your hands, whatever the situation.   And if you don't want that to happen and you don't want that to be the case, you've almost already lost. 
So those moments you remember, and those are the moments that make playing the position of kicker that much more worthwhile.   So it's definitely something I enjoy, and given the impact of this game and the prestige of this game, I mean, I've got to be looking forward to it, and I know the guys are looking forward to it, just because that's why you come here, to play in championship games and play historically great teams like Georgia Tech.
So yeah, I think big moments and big games is when all great players‑‑ it's what we look forward to. 

Q.   What kind of soul searching goes on within a team after a disappointing loss like this and knowing you can't kind of wallow in it?   What happened positively after the NC State loss, for example?   What happened positively after losing to Virginia last year and you bounced back and beat Florida?   What is it about this team that in the past you've been able to shake that really disappointing game off and move on very quickly? 
DUSTIN HOPKINS:   I think our coaches have a huge impact on us in that aspect, simply because in the past they've just instilled that in us where you can't let one loss turn into two, that kind of stereotypical thing, but that holds true.   And then specifically this year, speaking of this game, after coming off an obviously tough loss against Florida, it's‑‑ especially us, no one wants to lose a game and nobody wants to lose to Florida.   But that being said, our situation would not be very different if we won that game this past weekend.   We still have the ACC Championship to play for, and then the implications of that game have huge implications on our Bowl and where we play. 
Nothing would almost really change, and I think the team realizes that.   So we have so many goals still out there and so many aspirations that we as a senior class and all the underclassmen also have and that we're not willing to give up on just because we lost the game.   We know that if we looked at one loss could hinder how successful a team can be in the postseason, we'd be so disappointed in ourselves and so disappointed that we let down a city and a program.   We just realize we have so much left to play for. 

Q.   I just wanted to ask you about the perception that Florida State should roll in this game.   You guys were picked before the season even started to win the Orange Bowl.   Given what happened last week, do you feel like you guys still have something to prove?   Is there a sense that this isn't a gimme? 
DUSTIN HOPKINS:   Oh, yeah, there's definitely a sense it's not a gimme.   I mean, Georgia Tech hasn't had‑‑ they made the championship, first of all, that's not an accident, but they haven't played as well as I know they wish they would have, but the offense they run and just their team, they're going to have a chip on their shoulder, and they're scary, just because I know they're a talented team.   They have a lot of weapons. 
Yeah, it's not a gimme game by any means.   I hope none of our guys think that way, and I don't think we do.   And I'm sure that's something that's going to be reiterated to us, that needs to be reiterated from our leadership positions to our guys because when you're playing for a championship game, teams come out to play, regardless of games in the past.   It doesn't affect being in the moment and being ready to play on that Saturday‑‑ on this Saturday coming up. 
So yeah, we'd be sadly mistaken, we'd be remiss if we came in lightly to this game. 

Q.   Growing up being a placekicker, who did you idolize kicking field goals? 
DUSTIN HOPKINS:   It's weird because I really didn't idolize any field goal kickers, which is kind of weird.   I always played a position my whole life up until college was the first time I only kicked.   So I was kind of‑‑ I was a Deion Sanders man my whole life, when he played for the Cowboys, and that was kind of who I looked up to. 
Yeah, I mean, kicking‑wise, I watched Morten Andersen, and growing up in Houston, Chris Brown, he kicked there for a long time, and then I also knew who Sebastian Janikowski was, and it's coincidental I'm in the same university.
But as far as kicking I didn't really look at them too much I guess like a lot of other people in the country.   We're kind of an afterthought.

Q.   Watching you on games on TV, how do you get yourself in the moment knowing that you have to kick this field goal without getting nervous because I know a lot of field goal kickers get on the field and they're like, oh, God, I have to hit this field goal. 
DUSTIN HOPKINS:   Right.   Well, I think a huge part of it is I have faith in God that whatever happens is going to happen, and like he's sovereign in that kick, whether it's a make or a miss.   I'm going to do my best, and that's all anybody can ask.   I'm going to try to put myself in a position to be successful.   I'm going to go through my cues and be in the right mental state and the same mental cues I go through every time and doing my routine and developing those habits, when pressure comes‑‑ this is something Jimbo always says, when pressure comes, habits come to the surface, so I think it has a lot to do with developing good habits in practice and like taking those over into the game and not thinking about what's going to happen in the future if I make this kick, what's going to happen in the future if I miss this kick, but instead kind of being in this moment and realizing if I do what I need to do in that moment, the rest will take care of itself and the future will take care of itself, so that's kind of the mentality that I have. 

Q.   I know you've kicked in a lot of stadiums in college and also some pro stadiums.   What's the difference kicking this weekend in an NFL stadium down there in Charlotte?   It might be windy and rainy. 
DUSTIN HOPKINS:   Right, yeah.   I think any time a kicker‑‑ I don't think any kicker will say he'd rather kick in rain or sleet or windy conditions.   I think everybody would rather have good weather.   But that being said, it's not new.   It's something I've kicked in before.   You have to go through the same cues, same processes, and not hope for the best because there's more to it than that, but like I said before, put yourself in position to be successful, and whether the wind changes that ball or if the grass you slip or whatever it is, you're not worried about those outside forces as much as worrying about what you can control and trying to take that angle from it. 
So yeah, just worry about what you can control, not external forces. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT