WNBA ALL-STAR GAME
July 25, 2015
Alex Bentley
Tina Charles
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What are your feelings about playing in today's All‑Star Game?   
TINA CHARLES:   It's just a blessing, you know, to be able to be here and play here.   We had a lot of newcomers, especially for AB.   So the performance she put on today was fun to watch, fun to be a part of.   But the best thing about All‑Stars is the camaraderie.   You get to know the girls around you and just have fun.   It's a lot of fun.  
ALEX BENTLEY:   Man, I've been dreaming for days like this all my life.   I've been wanting to play basketball since I was 5 or 6 years old.   I used to go to the Indiana Fever games and want to be in their shoes.   Wanted to be in Tamika Catchings shoes.   
It's pretty surreal for me today to be able to play with the greats, the greats of the game.   Just like Tina said, you get to see a different side of the players.   So it's an incredible experience, and I'm just very blessed.   Like God is really good to me and I'm happy to be here.  
   
 Q.   Alex, it seems you and Plennette had a little fun back and forth all game.   Is there a history to it or just a good time by All‑Star duties?   
ALEX BENTLEY:   I've always known about Plennette Pierson, obviously.   She's a great basketball player.   This is my first time officially meeting her.   That's what I'm saying like you get to see different personalities off the court, so it's really nice to catch up with people that you don't normally see throughout the season.   But Plennette's really funny, and hopefully we'll get to see more of each other.  
   
 Q.   Alex, you seemed to be enjoying yourself so much the entire time.   But with under 4 minutes to go you made a point of pumping up the crowd on both sides.   Were you ever sort of processing at that moment what you were experiencing to have a game the way you did in front of your home fans?   
ALEX BENTLEY:   Yeah, absolutely.   Today is all about having fun.   It's all about having fun, seeing the best come out and showcase their talents.   That's what everybody did today.   I just wanted to pump up the crowd.   It's the fourth quarter with 4:00 minutes left to go.   It was pretty quiet in there.   So just pump up the crowd, have some fun, make some noise, and make this weekend even more special.  
   
 Q.   Can you just talk about the three‑point play late in the second quarter?   It seemed like you missed a couple shots and it was like all right, let's get to the basket.   How much are you looking forward to getting back?   
TINA CHARLES:   That's what I do.   You have to read the scouting report.   I don't know.   I was just having fun.   I wasn't making threes, so I figured I'd just take it all the way down.   
As far as the season, yeah, I can't wait to get back with my team.   I actually really miss them, just the camaraderie we have on that team, the character of those girls.   Having people like Tanisha Wright, Swin Cash being leaders of that team just makes it even better for you to want to get better and be motivated to play in the next game.   So I can't wait for practice on Monday and get back after it and face Indiana on Wednesday.  
   
 Q.   Alex, I've got to ask you, you're sitting on the bench and you're probably the MVP if the East wins.   How much did you hate to see Maya Moore go off with those ten points?   
ALEX BENTLEY:   Hey, man, I just hated that we lost.   I hated the loss for sure.   I thought we were going to pull it out.   That's what I was mad about.   But it's all good.  
   
 Q.   Tina, you've played with Maya many times and obviously she's done what she did in the last two minutes many times.   What's it like watching her play?   
TINA CHARLES:   It's like a video game.   It's like she's just possessed and that's just her.   She gets that face, that demeanor.   I've been with her on the court, during practice.   She's just a great player.   I don't think she knows any other style of play except that one way of just going hard and competing.   She's the ultimate competitor and always wants to win in everything that she does.   Little things of us going to class and her being the first one to get there, meanwhile we left at the same time from the apartment.   Like little things.   She just loves winning and that's just Maya.  
   
 Q.   Alex, you talked about growing up with the WNBA, and going to Indiana games.   Tamika Catchings last All‑Star Game.   Was it special to be part of her farewell here?   
ALEX BENTLEY:   It's so special.   Like I said, it's surreal.   I probably won't actually soak all of this weekend in until next week, honestly.   It's incredible.   I used to watch her.   Like I watched her play.   I wanted to be where she was, and I'm sitting here high‑fiving her and playing with her and passing her the ball.   It's just incredible.  
   
 Q.   When you and Maggie were having pretty big nights back there at Penn State, how does that atmosphere compare to being here today?   
ALEX BENTLEY:   Oh, man, like I said, our fans here in Connecticut are pretty amazing.   I had great fans at Penn State.   I love Penn State, love my school.   But today was about being at Connecticut and being a Connecticut Sun player, and our fans came out and they did what they were supposed to do and what they always do, which is support and get loud for us.   
   
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT