BIG TEN CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 4, 2010
Alex Bentley
Tyra Grant
Julia Trogele
Coquese Washington
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









 THE MODERATOR: We'll go directly to questions for the student-athletes. After we're done with that we'll stay with Coach Washington. 

 Q. Alex, is that what you expected, coming back home, playing here? 
 ALEX BENTLEY: What I expected? To win? Of course it is. It was nice to be back in my hometown and get back in the hometown feel and having my family and everybody here. It was a nice win. 

 Q. Julia, how good does it feel to come out and win the first round here?
 JULIA TROGELE: I think it was really exciting for us. The past two years that I've been here, you know, we unfortunately haven't been able to get past the first round. We struggled a little bit. 
 But coming out as strong as we did and knowing that they had beat us twice, and then beating them was really amazing for us. It just gives us a lot of confidence going into the rest of it.
 TYRA GRANT: Basically saying what Julia has already said. It gives us a lot of confidence going into the second game. But also I feel like a lot of this came from the second half of the Indiana game during the regular -- well, Big Ten regular season. 
 But it's exciting. It's exciting to be able to do something like this. And we hopefully can continue progressing forward into the tournament.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you. 
 Questions for Coach Washington. 

 Q. You play Iowa tomorrow. And they stand out there and shoot 3s and shoot 3s and shoot 3s. How do you defend them? 
 COACH WASHINGTON: With much difficulty, because they also -- Kachine Alexander and Kamille Wahlin and Jaime Printy are also very good at driving the ball and trying to get the ball into the paint. You've got to be on your Ps and Qs and we've got to have good ball containment defense. 
 We've got to make sure that we get up on them, guard them, and, quite simply, you just have to make them take tough shots, make them take contested shots and rebound when they miss.
 But they're tough match-ups.

 Q. There was a period of time in the first half when you had four freshmen on the floor. I don't know if that was intentional or not. But what do you see out of that unit? How do you see them progressing over the next few years?
 COACH WASHINGTON: Well, I hope they progress a lot. I think they all have -- one thing they all have in common is they're fighters and they're competitors. I knew coming into this game that we had some depth, and I was going to use it. 
 We used it and we needed to rest our starters some. I thought Julia Trogele played a tremendous game. Part of that is because she got quite a few breaks. Tyra was able to come back the second half. She sat some the first half. 
 We didn't miss a beat. So I'm really confident in our freshmen. 
 I think they at different times really give us a lot. Nikki, a stretch there in the second half, I think she got every offensive rebound and put-back and they were all big. Marisa Wolfe comes in and gives us some good rebounding, gets to the free throw line, and Gizelle makes a play, and Alex Bentley is our starter. 
 They all contribute in different ways. I'm hoping they just get confidence and get better and over the next three years that they're here we can continue to have days like this.
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Coach. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT