THE SOLHEIM CUP
September 12, 2003
Elisabeth Esterl
Sophie Gustafson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SOPHIE GUSTAFSON:  It was very good we played very well.  We stayed pretty much out of trouble and made lots of birdies.  Could have been even quicker, but it was exciting to the end.


Q.  You started a little bit at the second hole on the left side.  Was it nerves?

SOPHIE GUSTAFSON:  Maybe a little bit, but if I get into trouble, she gets me out of it.


Q.  Hello, Elisabeth.  How are you?  How was your first taste of the Solheim Cup?

ELISABETH ESTERL:  What do you think?  It was fantastic.  It was great meeting such good players as Meg and Rosie.  It was very, very exciting.


Q.  How confident were you and Sophie at the start of this match?

ELISABETH ESTERL:  Pretty good.  We get along so well.  I know I had a strong partner.  Sophie is playing fantastic.  And she got me out of trouble already.  It was fantastic.  If you have such a strong partner it gives you confidence.  It was a combination.  I Also made some good shots and she finished it up.


Q.  Does it feel extra special?  Because that's one of the most experienced if not the most experienced American partnerships out there?

ELISABETH ESTERL:  It was an extra bonus.  We played really good.  We had just one 3-putt. 


Q.  Some nice putts and nice shots.  Does anything stand out in particular for you if there was one shot?

ELISABETH ESTERL:  Probably down the par-3 that was a decent shot, yeah.  Sophie finished it up for the birdie.  I was trying to give Sophie easier putts to hole.  I have to sort out my driving. 


Q.  How confident were you out there today?

ELISABETH ESTERL:  Very confident.  It gave us some confidence that we played against Annika and Suzann Pettersen and beat them.  So that gave us some confidence.  Sophie was playing great.  Even when I sent her into trouble, she got me out of it.  Having her as a partner gives you confidence. 


Q.  You were the only rookie going out there today.  How was the first tee?

ELISABETH ESTERL:  Pretty good.  i wasn't a complete rookie going out there.  I knew what to expect.  I was on last year as a travelling reserve.  I actually felt pretty calm.  I think it just lifts you.  It's a good excitement and that's what counts. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT