ROSE BOWL GAME: OHIO STATE VS WASHINGTON
December 30, 2018
Jordan Fuller
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Just talk to me a little bit about the safety group this year, how has it improved over the season?  
JORDAN FULLER: I think as safeties we've grown tremendously throughout the whole season.  I know we've had different guys next to me all season, but we finally found somebody in Brendon White and just everybody in their role contributed tremendously.   
Probably what a lot of people don't notice, especially like on special teams and stuff like that, our room has contributed tremendously to this team, and I couldn't be more proud.   
 Q.  Could you talk to me more about that adjustment, what was it like for you going through, seeing the change on the other side of the safety, Brendon White eventually taking that role?  
JORDAN FULLER: All season I couldn't really get too (indiscernible) size and all that kind of stuff.  But now I'm solidified in my position.  And I'm just happy to see him blossom into the player he is now.  I can't wait to see him play on Tuesday.   
 Q.  Have you thought about what you're going to do in the NFL Draft this year?  
JORDAN FULLER: A little bit.  But my main focus is right here and right now and winning this game for my teammates and Coach Meyer.   
 Q.  What have you seen out of Washington, what have you seen out of Jake Browning, and what are you focusing on with this offense?  
JORDAN FULLER: They really have no weakness.  Power across the board, really, really good team.  We definitely have a challenge coming up, and I'm excited for it.   
 Q.  I don't know if you go through this at all, but it's something I've looked at.  Do you guys practice if the quarterback gives you punts or anything of that sort, Jake Browning (indiscernible) against Alabama, he's done it in the past.  Is that something you look at at all as a defense?  
JORDAN FULLER: I don't know.   
 Q.  Who do you think would get the push button, who do you think would turn it if you were on offense?  
JORDAN FULLER: A lot of it like offensive coordination.   
 Q.  Line up in the offensive formation and (indiscernible) punts it?  
JORDAN FULLER: Nobody would get it then.   
 Q.  Just go into the end zone?  
JORDAN FULLER: Yeah.   
 Q.  What's your favorite Rose Bowl Game of all time?  
JORDAN FULLER: Probably my favorite, I don't know, I was young and I was in and out of (indiscernible) but probably the USC versus Texas, from Vince Young.  That was my favorite.   
 Q.  What's your biggest influence that made you want to play football when you were a kid?  
JORDAN FULLER: Probably my older brother.  Because he's four years older and I was basically doing whatever he did.  I was inspired by him and just wanted to be just like him, and that's really what it was.  And he used to play at UCLA.  This is his stadium.  It's cool to be able to keep it in the family.   
 Q.  You've got your last game of the season, season coming to a close.  Any favorite game of the season?  
JORDAN FULLER: Favorite game?  Probably when we beat The Team Up North.  That's why we played that day, is to -- it was the way we knew we could play all season.  We just hadn't done it up to that point.  But to do it against our rival is a great feeling, especially because it was on senior day.  It was great.  A lot of emotions in that game.   
 Q.  Without giving too much in what you guys want to do to try to stop Washington, what's the mindset of the defense once you get closer to (indiscernible)?  
JORDAN FULLER: I'd say this is a really tough offense.  Everybody's going to have to make plays in this game.  It's going to come down to DBs, linebackers, and D line.  It's going to be a full defensive effort trying to stop these guys.  That's the kind of challenge we want.  We're excited for it.   
 Q.  You studied Washington on film.  What have you seen of their quarterback (indiscernible)?  
JORDAN FULLER: I know he's very accurate.  And he's a playmaker.  And he's bound to make a few big plays here and there.  He can make plays with his feet as well.  I wouldn't say he's a dual-threat quarterback, but can definitely keep plays alive and threaten you that way too.   
 Q.  Which receiver should you keep an eye on?  I hear they're all good, but if you had to pick one out and say that's the guy you've really got to keep in check in the game?  
JORDAN FULLER: I'd say Aaron Fuller.  Is that his name?  I know his last name because it's mine.  But he's a really good player.  And he attacks the ball well as well.  And I know he's like their leading target.  So I would say him.   
 Q.  Excited to be here in California in this weather?  
JORDAN FULLER: It's amazing.   
 Q.  Where are you from?  
JORDAN FULLER: Jersey.   
 Q.  How was practice?  Seems like you are excited to be here, but everything (indiscernible)?  
JORDAN FULLER: We're used to working hard.  And when it's time to practice, it's time to practice.  But we're definitely enjoying it out here and enjoying the weather and seeing different places as well.   
 Q.  Washington, the run game, they have a good offense.  What (indiscernible)?  
JORDAN FULLER: They have a pretty balanced attack.  We're just preparing for everything, all the different looks they give and the different formations and different plays.  We know what each team comes to do Tuesday as well.  They've had a whole month to prepare just like we have.  We're excited for the challenge.   
 Q.  Is it kind of surreal being here?  
JORDAN FULLER: It is.  It's definitely surreal for me because my brother used to play in this stadium, played for UCLA.  A family tradition playing in this stadium.  I'm glad I get to push that along.   
 Q.  Is your family coming out?  
JORDAN FULLER: Definitely.   
 Q.  Have you watched the playoff games yesterday?  
JORDAN FULLER: Bits and pieces.  But not full games.   
 Q.  What were your thoughts on those games?  
JORDAN FULLER: The teams that won deserve to win, I guess.   
 Q.  Dwayne said, I thought we should have been in it after watching that game.  Do you feel that way?  
JORDAN FULLER: Yeah, I mean, that last we had -- it kind of killed us, but we can't blame them for leaving us out.  But I think if we were in there, it would have looked a little different.   
 Q.  Do you think you would have had a better shot?  
JORDAN FULLER: Yeah.  Me personally, yeah.   
 Q.  Do you think now they'll win the National Championship?  
JORDAN FULLER: I don't, exactly.   
 Q.  Focused on this game?  
JORDAN FULLER: Exactly.   
 Q.  It's not often you get to work with an offensive coordinator, but Coach Day coaching you guys, now head coach, what do you anticipate the program sort of looking like?  
JORDAN FULLER: I'd say it will be mostly the same just because it's like the same infrastructure.  It's not like a whole staff blowup or anything like that.  So I think it will be mostly the same.  Obviously Coach Day has his own little flavor.  He's not the same as Coach Meyer.  But I think Ohio State will be Ohio State.   
 Q.  How would you describe the difference of -- you say it's a little different flavor.  What would you say is the main difference?  
JORDAN FULLER: I don't know.  Since Coach Day is younger, he's a little more relatable.  And he has a good balance of being able to relate to his players while also being stern, and when it's time to work, it's time to work.  He bounces back really well.   
 Q.  When your brother played out here.  How many games did you get out to?  
JORDAN FULLER: None.  I was playing on Friday nights and he was on Saturdays, but I was watching from home.   
 Q.  Growing up watching the Rose Bowl, is that part of your (indiscernible) watching?  
JORDAN FULLER: Growing up I wouldn't watch like full football games, but it was always like something I would see on TV.  And I was just, like, dang I would love to play in that game.  And also like watching that Texas-USC game was definitely a crazy one.  But, I mean, the Rose Bowl was always, like, that's like a dream of mine to play in.   
 Q.  (Indiscernible) every year everybody gets younger.  
JORDAN FULLER: I was so young I was in and out of sleep during that entire game.  But it was fun.  It was fun watching it.   
 Q.  Talk about the big game, how are you feeling and your preparation for the game?  
JORDAN FULLER: We're having a great time out here.  Just preparing and staying focused, but also just touring around the city and stuff like that and enjoying California.   
 Q.  Have you ever been here before?  
JORDAN FULLER: Yeah, I have family out here.  There's nothing really new for me.  But, yeah, still I love it when I come out here.  I want to live out here one day, hopefully.   
 Q.  Talk about preparation for the game.  How has practice been going?  
JORDAN FULLER: Practice has been tough.  We're really going hard.  It's nothing new.  We're used to going hard and practicing hard and competing every day.  And we're just excited for the challenge coming up.   
 Q.  When you step out on the field for the Rose Bowl Game, how will your emotions be?  
JORDAN FULLER: It's going to be just a dream come true, to be able to play in front of my family out here in California, because I have family out here, to play in front of them.   
 Q.  Where in California?  
JORDAN FULLER: Chatsworth, yeah, to be able to play in front of them for the first time, it will be fun.   
 Q.  What will be your signature mark on this game?  What impact will you have?  
JORDAN FULLER: I would say:  Stay tuned.   
 Q.  You have a lot of family and friends coming to support you?  
JORDAN FULLER: I do.   
 Q.  As far as that inspiration, how much more will that add to the field?  
JORDAN FULLER: I wouldn't say I need much motivation, but my family, them being there, being here to support me, that's just going to be a big factor, I would say.   
 Q.  What was the highlight of your season, and give me one phrase?  
JORDAN FULLER: I would say my interception against The Team Up North.  That was fun.  Just that whole win in general, it was just really amazing.   
 Q.  What inspires you, inspirational story?  
JORDAN FULLER: My family, I would say.  Just making them proud.  But that was my main goal in life, really.   
 Q.  How is your education going?  
JORDAN FULLER: Really well.  Really well.  I was able to get an Academic All-American for the second time this year, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT