LIBERTY UNIVERSITY FOOTBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2017
Antonio Gandy-Golden
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Liberty - 48, Baylor - 45   
 Q.  13 catches, 192 yards, two touchdowns.  Just another day at the office for you and Buck?  
ANTONIO GANDY-GOLDEN: Basically.  We do this in practice, so coming out here and playing this team we felt like it should be no different.  We want to win, we feel like we had all the tools to win, so all we did it just trust our technique and got it done.   
 Q.  When did you notice during the game that you had an advantage against their defensive backs?  
ANTONIO GANDY-GOLDEN: I would say the first quarter.  I just noticed something about them.  They just didn't seem like they wanted to cover us so you see he got those first two catches whack to back-to-back quick so from then on out we felt like we could exploit their weaknesses.   
 Q.  You and Buck roomed together during the Summer Bridge Program.  Back when you guys were incoming freshmen and have developed this rapport over a year plus.  What dynamics allowed you guys to be so successful where he knows he it put a pass to you and you can catch it one handed, on the run, for a touchdown, that makes you guys solely that will?  
ANTONIO GANDY-GOLDEN: We roomed together for the summer program, so we go out late nights and just throw the ball with no lights, we just have the Jumbotron, and we just go out and run every route four times on each side to get our chemistry down, because we knew one day we would both be playing together.   
 Q.  What was the message that you guys had amongst yourselves in the receivers room when you found out your leading receiver wasn't going to make this game?  
ANTONIO GANDY-GOLDEN: We found out so late, I literally found out as soon as I was getting on the bus.  So that hurt me because that's my brother, I wanted to see him come out here and play and I knew we would both be able to eat just as well as everyone else did tonight.  So we all got together, we prayed about it and we just wished him the best.  Hopefully the situation gets resolved but right now for like we have the tools that we need to keep doing what we did tonight.   
 Q.  In addition to this being a win for Liberty University is this also a mark in favor of under recruited players, Big South players, FCS players?  
ANTONIO GANDY-GOLDEN: I guess you could say that.  We all love to play the game and we all come here to play.  So just because you don't go to a bigger school or something like that doesn't mean you can't play.  We all came here, I came here and I was not, I was definitely not as good as I am now.  Coach Brown has helped mold and scope me these past couple years into the receiver I am now.   
 Q.  What did you see physically in terms of the physical matchup against a Power 5 secondary and what you expected coming in?  
ANTONIO GANDY-GOLDEN: To be honest I didn't expect them to be a lot bigger, but we have, I'll say, the best strength coach in the country.  He gets us prepared every week.  So once I got out there, I definitely felt like we were definitely no less than what they were, at all.   
 Q.  How big of a win is this for the program and your first game, your last game as an against an FBS team as a FCS team as you transition up to the level that Baylor plays at?  
ANTONIO GANDY-GOLDEN: It's a huge win.  We want to beat everybody, but just beating this FBS team and people underrated us, there was things going on saying we're going to get blown out 52-7 and two percent chance of winning, so we just came into the game head strong and just figured that we would come in and trust our technique and do what we need to do and we'll come out on top and that's what happened.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT