ZURICH CLASSIC OF NEW ORLEANS
April 28, 2013
Bobby Gates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Final round 65.   It could have been a little bit lower. 
BOBBY GATES:   It could have.   I hit some great putts, but it's been a while since I've been in contention.   So it was nice to go out, have some fun and hit some great shots toward the end.

Q.   Before this, your best finish T5.   If things remain the way they are, this will be a T4 finish.   You must be very happy. 
BOBBY GATES:   Yeah, it's always nice to have a chance on the back nine.   I hit a lot of great shots and had some good looks on 17 and 18.   Would have been nice to convert, but I'll take it.

Q.   We learned a lot about how you performed under pressure.   Anything you can take away from this for future events? 
BOBBY GATES:   Yeah, I made a lot of mistakes on Friday and Saturday, and I really didn't have my best game with me those two days.   So I think it's got to give me some good confidence that if I play well and bring my A‑game all four days, I can be in contention and see what happens again.

Q.   What clicked for you today? 
BOBBY GATES:   I've just been working really hard the last two weeks.   I played absolutely terrible all year, and got some new Callaway equipment and just didn't work hard enough.   I think I took myself for granted and didn't go out and really buckle down. 
So I'm really happy with the equipment.   The golf ball has just been phenomenal.   The driver is great, and now it's just up to me to be confident in it.   I think this week went a long way to doing that.

Q.   This the kind of week that can jump start an entire year?
BOBBY GATES:   Absolutely.   It's been close all year.   I just made one or two mistakes at the wrong time that's really cost me.   So this week I just played really steady, and I think in the end it's going to go a long way to show I can compete, and I can do it day‑in, and day‑out hopefully out here, and that is the next step. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT