CHILDREN'S MIRACLE NETWORK HOSPITALS CLASSIC
October 23, 2011
Bobby Gates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. (Question regarding double on the 14th hole.) 
 BOBBY GATES: Yeah, I didn't know. I just wanted to keep hitting good shots. I had played great all day and hit a great shot in there on 5 and the wind knocked it down and I got a really bad lie on the side of a bunker. 
 So from my standpoint I did everything I could do right; it just didn't happen on that hole. I made two good ones coming in and a little mistake on 9 and didn't hit the first one hard enough. But that's the game.

 Q. Let's talk about the birdies at 7 and 8. Those were huge. 
 BOBBY GATES: Yeah, they were. I just hit great tee shots on both of 'em and had a great wedge number into 7 and 8. I hit the one on 7 and thought it was great. I thought I made one on 8, but I had a little 10-footer and glad to see that one go in.

 Q. Greens were crazy slick. I saw a lot of guys at 9 take that 40-footer and run it eight feet past. Were you worried about that more than leaving it short?
 BOBBY GATES: I watched Arjun basically put if off the green. From my standpoint I thought I hit a great putt. It just never really got over the hill to get going down it.

 Q. You wait, you hope, but you got a smile on your face. Been a heck of a year for you. 
 BOBBY GATES: It's been a good year. I've learned a lot. I made a lot of mistakes this year, so I'm hoping that someone's shining down on me and I can just get through this and regroup for next year. 

 Q. Talk about your emotions coming down the stretch and how you feel right now. Are you better now, or is the unknown even worse?
 BOBBY GATES: The unknown is way worse. If I was 5- or 6-under coming down the stretch you would feel a little better, but I guess the only good thing I had going in my favor was I finished on 7, 8, and 9. 
 16, 17, 18 can be quite brutal when you know you got a bubble you're playing on.

 Q. You hit wedges into both 7 and 8?
 BOBBY GATES: Yeah, I hit sand wedge from 113 into 7 and then I had like six feet.
 Then I had 68 yards into No. 8, and I just flicked a little lob wedge in there to about 10 feet.

 Q. And the first putt at 9 was how far?
 BOBBY GATES: 45 feet, 40 feet, somewhere in there. 

 Q. We were just talking to James Driscoll who said he had a hard time sleeping last night. How was your night?
 BOBBY GATES: It was great. We went and watched football and went back and laid in bed and tried to fall asleep early so that if I woke up a few times I would get enough sleep. 
 But I actually slept great last night and really just tried to make to feel like another rounds in a long career. I really hoped if I did my job then everything would fall into place. I knew I could only control the things that I had in my hands. Whatever happens, happens. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT