MAYAKOBA GOLF CLASSIC AT RIVIERA MAYA-CANCUN
February 26, 2011
Bobby Gates
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   NELSON SILVERIO: Welcome, Bobby Gates, to the media center here at the Mayakoba Golf Classic at Riviera Maya. First off this morning and you shot yourself into a tie for the lead. Just talk about your round out there today and what might have clicked out there. 
 BOBBY GATES: Putting was great. I made a few putts more than I was expecting to make them, but they went in in the end, so that was a big turning point. On 2 I made a long one and hit a great shot on 3 for a tap-in, so that kind of gets everything going. And from there just stayed out of my way and kept playing.

 Q. Is that a benefit maybe to go off first condition-wise, or does it pretty much just come down to your game?
 BOBBY GATES: Usually first tee time is not 10:20. It felt like we were kind of a middle-of-the-pack pairing. There was just no one in front of us. I didn't really do anything different, didn't try anything different, just kept playing, made a few birdies and just kept everything going. 

 Q. Can you just talk a little bit about conditions out there, that momentary stoppage that we had? Did that affect you at all?
 BOBBY GATES: No, I made birdie right after we resumed. I hit a wedge and made a 20-footer for birdie. So it didn't affect me. But as far as the course and everything, it's in perfect shape. A little bit of rain didn't hurt it at all. Probably if anything smoothed out some of the greens and made it play a little softer, which was nice, took out some of the footprints. 

 Q. Are you the tallest golfer out there? 
 BOBBY GATES: Maybe today. I don't know. 

 Q. How tall are you? 
 BOBBY GATES: I'm just under 6'6", so 6'51/2".

 Q. Are your clubs longer?
 BOBBY GATES: An inch and a half longer. 

 Q. After the rain did the greens seem to get slower? 
 BOBBY GATES: No, you couldn't really tell any difference in the speed. They were perfect. They were the same all day, and they've been the same all week. You know, I think tomorrow I'm expecting them to be about the same, and they're just perfect. I think some people have asked if they're real just because they're so good. They're awesome. 

 Q. What's your strategy going into tomorrow? You'll probably be among the leaders. 
 BOBBY GATES: Same thing as today. Just hit a lot of fairways and as many greens as I can, try and roll in a few putts. I can only control what I do and see what happens tomorrow. 

 Q. How are the players being treated here in México?
 BOBBY GATES: It's amazing. The food is wonderful here, the hotel here is beautiful. The Fairmont has taken great care of us. It's a nice, relaxing place. I got married eight days ago, so this is my honeymoon, and it's my wife's birthday yesterday. So it is a great place to come relax and spend a week and play golf, and this is just a little bonus on top of it. 

 Q. Do you look at this as maybe if you win tomorrow, this will be your wedding gift to your wife? 
 BOBBY GATES: No se. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT