PGA TOUR MEDIA CONFERENCE
April 7, 2020
Trevor Immelman
Adam Sperling
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
CHRIS REIMER: Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. I sincerely hope everyone is safe and healthy and making it through these difficult times. It's a pleasure to have to join you guys and have you all on for the Presidents Cup teleconference, coming off of one of the most exciting Presidents Cup playings we have seen as the International Team took their biggest lead in tournament history but ultimately suffered a narrow defeat.   
That said, there's a great deal of momentum for the International Team in 2019, and that momentum continued today as we have announced Trevor Immelman as our International Team captain for the 2021 Presidents Cup to be held at Quail Hollow in Charlotte, North Carolina.   
Before we get to captain Immelman, I'd like to introduce Adam Sperling, the executive director for the 2021 Presidents Cup, to make a few brief introductory comments. Adam?   
ADAM SPERLING: Thanks, Chris. Welcome, everyone. Good morning. Our team arrived on-site in the spring of 2018, which was earlier than ever before, to begin the market planning phase for the 2021 Presidents Cup. We know that that added time in market is going to pay dividends for all involved when we welcome the world to Charlotte in the fall of 2021. And on behalf of our global partners, Citi and Rolex, along with everyone associated with Quail Hollow Club and the city of Charlotte, we'd like to congratulate you, Trevor. You're going to do an excellent job leading the International Team into the Queen City. We can't wait to welcome you.   
CHRIS REIMER: Thank you, Adam. Now, Trevor, you've played in two Presidents Cups, captained the Junior Presidents Cup, and possibly most importantly, you served as an assistant to your longtime mentor and friend Ernie Els last year. Start off, just how excited are you to be named International Team captain today?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, thanks, Chris. It's great to be joining everybody this morning. Hard to even put into words. I'm amazingly humbled and excited at this opportunity. Playing in a team environment, the few times that I've had that opportunity throughout my career, has been such a thrill for me. It's something that I thoroughly enjoyed.   
And you know, the experience that I had with the Junior Presidents Cup in 2017 and being a part of Ernie's leadership team at the last Presidents Cup was so much fun to see that side of it, as well.   
You know, to be able to try to continue Ernie's legacy that he had built for our team, the platform that he's created for us to try and build from is something that I'm really looking forward to, and I know that the whole team that competed in 2019 and everybody that was involved with that International Team is also looking forward to the opportunity to have another crack at it in '21 at Quail Hollow.   
 Q.  You just mentioned the idea of continuing Ernie's legacy. Having been there, what will be his legacy? What was sort of the plan?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, Ernie had decided that he needed to find a way to create like a family dynamic in our team. We felt that over the years that might have been something that was missing. It's a pretty big hurdle to try and overcome when you have players coming from seven, eight, nine different countries, different cultures, different languages. It's a big hurdle for us to have to overcome that particular week.   
And so the leadership team for the 2019 Presidents Cup spent a lot of time trying to get all the different players that could possibly be on the squad together, get them to get to know each other, feel more comfortable around each other and in that kind of team environment. And so he really went out of his way to try and get that unity of one group, and we learnt a lot through that process. We learnt a lot about ourselves. We learnt a lot about all the different players. And it's something that I think worked in our favor.   
We had an amazing chemistry in our team room down in Australia. I'm sure everybody could see that and feel that. And it translated on to the golf course, where our guys really did compete as one unit, and we came so close to almost causing one of the biggest upsets, shucks, that I can think of in sports, when you look at the differences in the World Ranking.   
So that was one of the many areas that he really wanted to create something not just for himself and the 2019 team but looking further down the road at possible captains in the future and Cups in the future, he really felt like our team needed a little bit of guidance, and to create some kind of identity, and I felt like he really did give us that.   
 Q.  Can you just speak about the fact that you are a South African and that you're the third one, and just about the legacy and just about golf as a whole in South Africa and how the Presidents Cup has been kind of a beacon?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, sure. It's great to hear a fellow South African. Thanks so much for the question.   
Obviously for me, it's an amazing honor. Any South African, when they're growing up, they're very well aware of who Ernie Els is and of who Gary Player is, and so for me to be able to have the opportunity to try and follow in those two guys' footsteps is something that is very, very special to me. Both of those guys are mentors and great friends and people that I've relied on throughout my life for advice and for guidance, and so for me to try to follow in their footsteps really is something that's pretty cool and that I don't take for granted. I'm really humbled by it.   
And from a South African athlete's standpoint, we've had such a rich history of great athletes coming from a small country. To have people perform at the highest level and win the biggest championships, whether it be in golf or rugby or cricket or swimming or all the other sports that South Africans compete in, it's proud for me to be a part of that group, and to fly our flag on behalf of the International Team is something that I'm really looking forward to.   
I have a sneaky suspicion that we're going to have a few South Africans on our team. Obviously we have household names like Louis Oosthuizen and Charl Schwartzel, who's coming back from injury and starting to show some good form; we have Branden Grace, who won the South African Open a few months ago; and then we also have these youngsters coming through. Erik van Rooyen has been playing some beautiful golf out here on the PGA TOUR; Christian Bezuidenhout is finally getting an opportunity to compete against the best players in the world and showing what he can do. You know, from a South African standpoint, I'm really looking forward to seeing how those guys compete over the next 18 months, and I look forward to possibly having a number of them on the team.   
 Q.  Have you spoken to Ernie since this announcement? Have you been in contact with him?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, look, Ernie is one of my best friends. I speak to him regularly throughout the course of my life, quite frankly, since I was about six or seven years old when I first met him. We speak regularly. We obviously were in contact very often leading up to the previous Presidents Cup and post. Ernie was a massive part of sitting down a couple weeks after Melbourne, trying to figure out exactly where we went right and where we went wrong, the things we need to keep, the things we need to try our best to improve on, and so we have that blueprint that we're trying to build off of. He's going to be a huge part of our team, albeit from a distance. He will always be there for us.   
I actually spoke to him yesterday and had another chat with him regarding today and exactly how things were going to unfold. I just wanted to show him the respect of keeping him up to date with everything. And I just wanted to reiterate to him again that what he has created for our team, I think, is going to be so massive, not just in Charlotte but I'm talking about three, four, five, six Presidents Cups down the road. I think what Ernie did for our team, giving us something to build off of, we sure are hoping that that is going to be some kind of turning point for our team to where we can find a way to finally win this Cup again.   
 Q.  I had a couple things unrelated. First of all, what about Ernie's captaincy do you think you will try to emulate, whether it's analytics or anything else he brought, and how will you kind of put your own identity on this captaincy?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, there's a lot of things that I learnt from Ernie. I think one of the things that he did so well, whether I can recreate that or not -- I probably can't. Look, everybody is going to come with their own spin on it and try and leave their own mark on it to where you really can get the players to perform their best. But I thought what Ernie did really well was when he spoke, he said things that were really impactful. I think you know Ernie, he's not always a man of many words. He kind of likes to just fly under the radar a little bit and let his clubs do the talking.   
But when he came into the team room, first of all, the size of him, the aura and the presence that he comes in with is something that the whole team could feel. We could feel his intensity. We could feel his emotion. We could feel how badly that he wanted to turn this thing around and get our team to be competitive. And that really rallied our troops.   
Those are literally and figuratively massive shoes for me to fill. But I think we have a nice plan going forward. I'm going to be drawing on all sorts of different things that I've picked up over the years from a leadership standpoint from successful people all over the globe in all sorts of walks of life. But you know, it's going to revolve mainly around, look, we're going to be having a great time. But we're going to have great communication. Just like everything in my career, there's going to be a lot of attention to detail.   
Then lastly and maybe most importantly is every player and every caddie and everybody involved with our team and the whole team environment is going to know that I have their back 100 percent.   
And so if I can take care of those things and get these players to be able to step on that first tee knowing that everything is taken care of, knowing that their captain loves them, knowing that he's going to be there for them regardless, hopefully that puts them in a position to where they can go out and play with freedom and let the chips fall where they may.   
 Q.  Not to digress too much, but if you could put on your hat as a Masters champion and just kind of give us some thoughts on what you think Augusta will be like in November if it's played.  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I think if you look at the golf course, if we just had to put the golf course in a bubble, so to speak, I think the golf course itself won't play all that differently. They have ways to be able to control from an agronomy standpoint the types of moisture and exactly what's going on. I think the ryegrass overseed should have come in nicely by then, and so from just playing the golf course, if we were in a bubble standpoint, I don't think it would be all that different other than the obvious esthetic differences between spring and fall.   
The massive wild card is going to be Mother Nature. You look at the average temperatures in April, you're looking at the 70s. You're looking in November, it's in the lower 60s. And so that change in temperature along with the possibility of that northerly wind that can blow is going to be the big difference.   
So many things are going to -- holes are going to play differently. The 1st hole is going to play a lot longer. You look at 17 and 18, you're going to be coming into some kind of breeze. And I think the biggest difference from a playability standpoint is you look at the par-5s, three of the four par-5s with a northerly wind will have some kind of breeze into, and so maybe not the same amount of birdies and eagles as what we're used to when we have nice warm weather in April.   
But then on the flipside you're going to have some of the other traditionally tougher holes that are going to have some help from that northerly wind. You're looking at the hardest on the golf course last year was the 5th hole. That's now going to have the chance to play downwind. 10, 11, 12, so that start of Amen Corner, that's all going to be coming downwind, so those holes may play a little bit shorter.   
But all in all, I do think playing it in November, and I've done that many times, the scoring won't quite be as low as what we're used to over the last few years.   
 Q.  I just wanted to ask you, when you started this two years ago when Ernie tabbed you as an assistant captain, I'm assuming you didn't think you were going to be heir apparent. Can you talk about that, as well as the fact that it seems like Ernie was the one, along with the entire team, who decided that you were going to be the captain, which is kind of unusual considering how they've picked captains in the past.  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah. When Ernie picked me as an assistant, I was thrilled. I'd been out of that fray of the International Team for a number of years and was really, really excited to have a shot at being a part of it again. It was something that I really did miss.   
Yeah, when he picked me as an assistant captain, I had no designs at all or even thoughts of possibly being a captain one day. I was just so focused on trying to help him.   
But I think you're exactly right. It just sort of organically came about. We got down to Melbourne. Obviously I've gotten to know the team so well, not just through what we were doing with our preparations for Melbourne but through all the broadcast work and being out, able to spend some time studying these guys and getting to know them, and it just sort of organically evolved while we were down there and in the weeks and months after that.   
One of the things that Ernie really wanted for our team was an opportunity to have a little bit more of a say from a leadership standpoint and seeing how things were going to progress going forward, and you know, I actually have to take my hat off to the TOUR, that in all those meetings, they really were so accommodating in trying to allow him to do those things.   
And so yeah, this just organically came about in discussions with our leadership group, and yeah, I am just -- I'm thrilled to bits. We're excited about what happened in Melbourne. We're excited about the 2021 Presidents Cup in Charlotte. But we're also excited about future Cups down the road because we feel like we have a nice plan in place for those, too.   
 Q.  As a player, you've obviously won the Masters and then you also were quite plagued with injuries throughout your career. Having played the Presidents Cup twice, having been an assistant captain, now a captain, do you feel this has almost brought your golf career full circle?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, that's a good question. You could definitely look at it that way. You know, it's been a lot of fun for me over the last 20 years traveling the globe, having an opportunity to play all over the world in the biggest tournaments against the best golfers, and so that is something that when I sit back now, having just turned 40 years old, it's something that I really, really do appreciate.   
And yeah, look, my career over the last few years has been transitioning. Everybody knows that. I've been doing more and more TV work with Golf Channel and CBS and Turner Sports. So that transition has started happening.   
And so when you add this as the icing on the cake, so to speak, it's going to be a lot of fun. You know, I think from a team standpoint, we're going to have a nice combination of some more experienced players that are guys that I grew up with playing from a junior golf, from an amateur golf, we turned pro at similar times, and you're thinking about an Adam and guys like that, and then also you've got all these youngsters that I've gotten to know well over the years that are trying to forge their way on to the biggest stage.   
And so now with all the broadcasting that I'm able to actually go out to tournaments and really focus on them rather than focusing on my own game -- look, when I was competing, the way that I had to compete at my best is I had to be really hyper focused and quite frankly selfish, whereas now that I've stepped away from that a little bit more and I'm going more as a broadcaster with my eyes and ears more open trying to make sure that I'm gathering as much information as possible, I really am able to go to these events and be there for our guys, be a shoulder for them, be an ear for them to be able to share some stuff, maybe ask my advice.   
And so I think that is going to work in our team's favor, and yeah, I look forward to just getting a tighter and tighter bond in our group.   
 Q.  I suppose this also does help with the current situation, tournaments being canceled and postponed, that it does give you a bit more of a catalog of players that you're looking forward to take into Quail Hollow?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, yeah, I think the good thing for us is over the last two years or so we've had a number of youngsters step up to the plate and really throw their hat in the ring as some of the best players in the world. You look at Sungjae Im, you look at Joaquin Niemann and Cameron Smith, Erik van Rooyen, we've got a lot of different players. You've got Jazz Janewattananond playing over there on the Asian Tour doing some great stuff, and he's starting to get opportunities now in the biggest tournaments here in the States.   
So I'm going to be able to be in a position now to -- we had our group of 12, obviously, at the Presidents Cup in Melbourne, but now I'm going to be able to step back and cast a bigger net and start to pull in a group of 30 or 40 players to start to create this camaraderie with.   
Like I said, we've already had some guys, even though we haven't been able to play a full schedule, but you look at a guy like Nick Taylor from Canada, who won the AT&T Pebble Beach earlier this season, there's another guy that all of a sudden has stepped up to the plate and is able to contribute to our team, Corey Conners. We can go on with names that have started to play well in the last number of years who are on the fringes of making the previous team. Branden Grace has found some form again.   
It's going to be really cool for me to step back and throw a bigger net and start to get to know all these guys again and see how things progress over the next 18 months or so.   
 Q.  I just have more of a kind of a Gary Player Masters question. I'm wondering first of all what you're missing the most right now this week not being at Augusta personally, and just as a follow-up, how often are you in touch with Gary and kind of what has it meant to you over the years to see him at Augusta every year after everything he's done?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, shucks, there's so many things that you miss about being at Augusta National and playing in the Masters. There's so many amazing traditions and things that golf fans and patrons around the world have become accustomed to and look forward to.   
You know, there's a few that jump out to me. Number one, it doesn't matter how many times you've been to Augusta National; the first time you drive down Magnolia Lane for the week is special. Every player that has designs on being a professional, that driver down Magnolia Lane is something that they will never forget. It doesn't matter how many times you've been there.   
The next thing would be the Champions' Dinner. For me over the last 10 or 11 years to have been able to be a part of that group in that room with players that quite frankly I've idolized and been my heroes ever since I started playing this game as a five-year-old in South Africa is just -- it's second to none, to be able to be in that room enjoying that moment, seeing what it means to them to be in that room. That really adds some gravity to it.   
The third thing would be the par-3 contest. The par-3 contest is another great tradition. As I've gotten older and my kids are getting older, I've got a 13-year-old son and a nine-year-old daughter that love the game. To see them and the way they look forward to the par-3 contest, look forward to being a part of it, seeing them practicing leading up to the week so that when they have to hit a putt or when my son needs the shot on the 9th hole, they're ready for it. To be able to be a part of that and see the Masters through their eyes is something that is -- I've really started appreciating as I've gotten older. So just countless things throughout the week that are just so, so special that my family and I look forward to for that week.   
And as far as Gary Player goes, look, there's probably nobody else in my life that has been as big of a part in my success than Gary Player, in the success that I had. The fact that from a young age I was able to have access to him, to be able to spend time with him, play with him, show him my work ethic, show him what I loved about the game. The fact that he appreciated those things and took me under his wing, those are things that I'll be telling people about for the rest of my life. He has been such a huge part of my career. I see him as a father figure.   
I've had very many serious conversations with him, when he'll give me a ring and he'll know exactly what he thinks about what I'm doing and how I'm playing and things that are going on with my game, and so we have that type of relationship where he absolutely lets me know when I'm doing something well, and on the flipside, he loves me enough to be able to reach out to me when he thinks that he can provide some support and assistance.   
Gary Player has been such an amazing part of my career, and the fact that I was able to break that drought from a South African standpoint, that 30-year drought that we had when he won his last Masters in '78 at the age of 42 and then I won in 2008, for me to be the guy to break that drought, considering my relationship with him over the years, was very, very special. And now again, for me to be able to follow in his footsteps and be the captain of the International Team, these are the kinds of things that just in some type of weird way have melded in some way our two careers together, and it's something that I'm very thankful for.   
 Q.  He would be obviously at the Champions' Dinner tonight with you, and I just kind of wonder what -- I know from speaking to many players that he's one of the best story tellers of all of them, all of the past champions. I just wonder what kind of stories he'd be telling and that kind of being the highlight of tonight and this week.  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, absolutely. You know, any of the past champions that have been in that room for a long time have got some incredible stories to tell, and the rest of us absolutely love it when they start telling those stories. You at that point can cut the atmosphere with a knife. I mean, the whole room goes dead quiet, and everybody's attention is on these legends when they start telling these stories.   
Mr. Player is a massive part of that. He really is the standard bearer, so to speak, for international golfers. One of the first guys that was able to travel all over the world and play against the best and win the Grand Slam, and so we all look up to him for so many reasons. Yeah, it's an amazing atmosphere to be in there. It's something that I'm obviously missing today, but we all understand the situation that the world is in, and that is far more important right now for the whole world to get through this and to be safe and then we can then get on to our lives as we knew it, and hopefully we'll get that opportunity in November to have another champions dinner, and I'm sure it'll be a great night again.   
 Q.  Another one of the traditions is the Thursday ceremonial first tee shot, which is another piece of history that Gary has been a part of in the last number of years. How much have you appreciated that tradition as it's taken place, and have you gone out and watched it in the mornings of the Thursday mornings in the past, and obviously Gary being a part of that in the last number of years?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I have. It sure is a cool moment for all the patrons and even the players that are playing in the following groups, to be able to be there to watch that. One of the stories that jumps out at me is a few years ago, I can't quite remember how many years ago, but I think I was in the first or the second group on Thursday, so that's a pretty short period after they've hit those tee shots off the first. And I remember when I went down to the practice area for the warmup, Gary was there before me, and he was having a full warmup. Even though he only had to hit that tee shot on the first hole, and he was going through his bag, hitting the wedges, hitting the short irons, hitting the mediums. He went all the way back and forth. He was hitting putts. And you could see his mind had switched back into that competitive mode and that he was going through the routine he would always go through when he was competing, and for me that was so special to see a guy doing that again, to see a world-class athlete's mind kick into gear. It doesn't matter his age, but his mind was still there on that.   
And then a little while later, you see Jack Nicklaus stroll down, in his usual demeanor, he's uber relaxed and calm and talking to everybody and really loose about it, and he only clipped five or six balls away before going to the tee, and just to see the two of them go back and forth and be a part of that while I was having my own warmup getting ready to compete in the first round, it was a cool thing to witness, and I went down on to the putting green at the 1st tee and watched them kick it off. Very special.   
Like I touched on earlier, there's so many cool traditions when it comes to Augusta National and the Masters that any time you have the opportunity -- even though I've been going there for a number of years. Played in '99 as an amateur was my first Masters. It doesn't matter; that first time you get through the gates again, it doesn't matter how many times you've been there before, it's something that you really enjoy.   
 Q.  I'm just wondering if we can assume it'll be the usual suspects for your captain's assistants, and have you reached out to any of those folks yet?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yes, I've reached out to a few people. We're not going to announce today exactly who it's going to be, but I think you're on the right track with your thought process, and we're really looking forward to it. We've been in communication for a number of weeks already, and yeah, we're really excited about it, to try and get the right blend in our leadership team to where we can find a way to get these players to respond to us, and ultimately bring their best golf out on to the golf course at Quail Hollow.   
 Q.  There were five Asian golfers on the team last year; being someone who's played regularly in Asia throughout your career, how do you think the Asian guys contributed towards the team, and moving forward, do you foresee other young Asians like Jazz, who you just mentioned, knocking on the door over the next few months?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, absolutely. You know, you look at the history of our team going back, with Maruyama and Ozaki and so many great Asian players, K.J., like you said, we had a number of Asian players on our team, and they performed brilliantly. I thought they responded fantastically to the team environment, and it really was a close-knit team, and to see how they went out on the golf course, accepted the challenge of playing against the best players in the world, accepted the challenge of for the most part learning a brand new golf course in Royal Melbourne that is very intricate and very difficult, I really was impressed.   
You just have to look at the young rookies, a man in his young 20s, Sungjae Im. The way he performed, it was so much fun to see this young guy who's so impressionable, he was like a sponge that week, just taking in all the information that he could take from Ernie and everybody else trying to short-track, fast-track the learning on the golf course, and then when it mattered he went out against these players and performed brilliantly, and then you look at his form subsequently and winning a few weeks ago at the Honda Classic, just so, so impressive.   
And so the Asian players have always been a very, very important part of our team makeup. They will continue to be so. And like you and I touched on earlier, you look at a guy like Jazz, who's climbed his way into the top 50 in the World Rankings and playing some beautiful golf in his own right, him and a number of other guys, you look at Haotong Li and C.T. Pan and Ben An, we can go down the list of great Asian players that really are starting to make their mark on the world of golf.   
So yeah, it's going to be great to have those guys back into the squad and hopefully eventually into the final 12, and hopefully we can just play a little bit better down the stretch on Sunday and have another chance to win the Cup.   
 Q.  Speaking of Sungjae, what are some of the traits that you like about him when you got to know him at Royal Melbourne?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, Sungjae has a unique personality trait where he is incredibly humble, but he has a lot of inner self-belief. For me, those have always been my favorite kinds of athletes to watch and to enjoy seeing how they perform, because you know that they're going to have so much respect for the competition, for the opponent, for everything that is taking place around them. But when it comes down to that point in time where they really need to perform, they have the self-belief to be able to back themselves and pull it off. I see that in Sungjae Im so far in his young career, and it's going to be very, very fun for me over the next 18 months and further down the line in his career to see exactly how he just starts to chip away at sharpening his game up in different areas and learning new things and gaining more experience. It's going to be pretty cool to watch because I do honestly believe that he has an opportunity to become one of the greatest golfers in the world.   
 Q.  Trevor, we go from one of the great sporting cities and golf courses in the world in Melbourne and Royal Melbourne to another golf course that is really well-thought of by the PGA TOUR players and another city that is known for supporting not only golf but sports as a whole. If you could just a few final questions about what do you think will be unique or positive about Quail Hollow Club and also just the city of Charlotte in general?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, like you say, we've been fortunate enough to for a while now be able to make a trip to Charlotte to play a PGA TOUR event, and from that tournament's inception, it's been one of the players' and wives' and caddies' favorites. Everything about it is great. The golf course itself is very challenging. It's a lot of fun to play. I must say, I think it's going to set up very, very well from a match play standpoint and a risk-reward standpoint when you're playing in a match play format against one player, or obviously if you're playing better ball alternate-shot you've got two opponents but one ball in the alternate-shot. I think that's going to provide a lot of excitement.   
You think of some of the holes, you think of No. 7, the par-5 with the water in front of the green and the water on the right off the tee; you think of 8 which can be a drivable par-4. You switch over to that second nine, and really the way we know the golf course -- whether it will be routed the same, I'm not quite sure yet, but the way we know the golf course, you think of holes like 14, that drivable hole with water on the left, 15 is a par-5, and then you have the Green Mile, those holes, when players have the opportunity in match play to play a little bit more aggressively, I think is going to provide some pretty good entertainment and a nice opportunity for these guys to show off their skills.   
You add what should be pretty solid weather in September and the fact that we're in a city that loves sport and has a great sporting history with the NFL and the NBA and NASCAR, and never mind all the amazing universities within a two- or three-hour drive from there and all the sports that they present in basketball and football and all that kind of stuff. We've seen amazing crowd support in all the years we've been there and for the PGA Championship, as well, recently, that I think it's going to be awesome. I think it's going to be quite a spectacle, and the American Team, quite rightly so, will have a lot of support and the majority of the support, and that will be one of the things that our team will have to be prepared for and be ready for but also enjoy. That's one of the things that you can really learn from. It's a fun experience, and so it should be a lot of fun for our guys.   
CHRIS REIMER: It's going to be a lot of fun to watch you as the captain continue to rally the International Team and build on what you guys started down in Melbourne. Again, congratulations on being the International Team captain and thank you for providing some time here for the media today. We look forward to kind of the next 18 months or so of building this tournament and being at Quail Hollow. Stay safe, everyone, and stay healthy, and hope to see all the media back out on the PGA TOUR when we get play resumed. Take care, everyone. Thank you.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT