TRAVELERS CHAMPIONSHIP
June 19, 2014
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









  TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Obviously you guys want to know about the double eagle.

Q.   Yeah. 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I got off to a nice start on the 10th hole there.   You know, it was raining and hit an 8‑iron into about five feet and made a birdie, so that was nice and then made a couple pars.
Then I had a good drive down that par‑5.   I think it's 13 maybe.

Q.   Yeah. 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   And had about‑‑ started with 250, and decided to go ahead and hit the 3‑wood.   And you know, the main thing is to keep it dry.   You gotta get it over there, and came out pretty good and landed just on the front and started rolling. 
And you know, for a minute we thought it had gone over the green, and then we saw the ball come back.   It was just cresting the air and came back, and I said to my caddie that's got a chance, and then the next thing the guys by the green were jumping up.   So it was quite funny.

Q.   Did you see it go in the hole?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I did, yeah.   I saw it disappear.   So I saw it land and then I kind of lost it for a minute and then we saw it come over the hill.   And I saw it disappear, yeah.   Quite funny.   I mean it was raining pretty good at that point.

Q.   Is that a bit of an advantage?   Obviously a little bit of rain isn't too bad, but obviously if it's pouring, it's tough.   But the greens are a little softer?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, sure.   I mean, you know, there were a few back pins today where you'd rather have the greens firm so you can kind of skip it in there.
You know, the back pins if you hit the fairway are a little tricky because now you gotta really control your spin. 
But you know, the course has been presented in great shape, probably the best I've seen it in the years that I've been coming here.   So we should have good weather from now.   Should be a great week.

Q.   How do you think it's going to change in the afternoon?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I think it'll stay about the same today.   I think the guys this afternoon will have it a little easier from the standpoint of, you know, it's getting warmer, the balls are going to go further and they're still going to have the moisture on the greens. 
But obviously we had real smooth greens going out early, so I think you'll see some low scores this afternoon.

Q.   Have you ever made a 2 on a 5?   Obviously not. 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, but it was in a pro am.   It was in a golf day and I was playing off members' tees, so I holed a 9‑iron.   (Laughs).   I mean I'll still take it.   Never in a tournament.   Yeah.
It was quite funny because the next par‑5, whatever hole that is, 6 maybe, I hit another good drive and I had the 3‑wood again, and I said to my caddie, well, we might as well take dead aim and see, you know.   Quite funny.   Missed the green with that one.   (Laughs). 

Q.   An interesting note, the last three albatrosses on TOUR have been South Africans. 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Really? 

Q.   Yeah. 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Well, Louis, I would imagine, at Augusta on the second.

Q.   And Retief, I think, in Canada. 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Okay. 

Q.   Yeah. 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah.   That's interesting. 

Q.   They going to have to rename it?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   The South African?   Yeah.   Brilliant.   (Laughs).







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT