WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 7, 2006
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  We'd like to thank Trevor Immelman for joining us for a few minutes here in the media center at the Wachovia Championship.  You've got to be really proud of yourself this week.  You gave it a good try and you should be real happy with your effort this week.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, sure.  Obviously when you come that close you're a little disappointed not to finish the job, but it's my best finish on the PGA TOUR, and I've got to build on that and get that first victory soon hopefully.
Q.  Just talk about the putt on 18, not the second one but regulation.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  The second putt?
Q.  Both of them actually, Trevor.  You had about 50 feet.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, the first putt, it was a tough putt, and I think for anybody to get it within five feet would have been a pretty good effort.  You know, that's pretty much what I was trying to do.  I was just trying to read the speed.  In the back of my mind I knew if I was going to get picky I'd like to have an uphill one coming back, so I was probably going to over hit it rather than under hit it.  Just hit it a few feet too hard.

Then I think I misread the second one.  I had it to go pretty straight, and it kind of came straight left off the putter face and kept going left and never really had a chance, to be honest.
Q.  Can you take us through the playoff hole?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, I got down there and I drew No. 1, so I was pleased with that because I was going to try and rip one down the fairway.  I felt a little uncomfortable with my game today.  I wasn't quite hitting the quality of shots that I've been hitting.  And just kind of left one out to the right there, so I knew it was going to be a tough hole from there.

I just kind of smashed an 8 iron from the rough.  I didn't have a very good lie for my third shot.  There was not very good grass covering up there, so the ball was sitting tight, and it was obviously a little damp from all the rain, and I caught it just a little heavy and it spun down the hill.

When you're playing against a guy of Jim's caliber, he wasn't going to take three to get down from the front of the green.
Q.  I don't know if you watched it or not, but Jim's 3 iron out of that sand trap there?  A pretty good ways away.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I think for any of us who have been in that trap today, it's a pretty good    well, you don't want to be in the trap, but it's a good break because it's been raining so you get a nice clean lie and the sand will be nice and firm, so you can pretty much hit anything you want out of there.

But he hit a great shot and was probably just a couple feet from being really close.  Yeah, it was a high quality shot.
Q.  On 18 the first time around, with all the Retief's problems, as long as it took him to get up onto the green, did that kind of maybe throw you off a little bit, just having to wait so long?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  No, I'm not looking for any excuses.  I definitely don't think that was the case.  If anything it gave me a little more time to survey that putt.  Like I said, it was a very tricky putt, and I was just trying to guess the speed.  I just hit it a little hard.
Q.  You don't seem too distraught about this.  Are you usually pretty good about handling these sort of things when things don't quite go your way?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, I mean, it's very simple.  There's a lot more less fortunate people in this world than myself, and I would find it pretty stupid of me to maybe handle it any other way.  I think, like I said, I'm 26 years old, and I think I made a big step in my career today and yesterday playing with the caliber of guys that I played with and stepping up to the plate and hanging in there most of the way.

You know, obviously I'm disappointed, but I'll put it behind me and hopefully I'll be able to have a good week at Byron Nelson.
Q.  Did you notice when you were putting on 18 the first time, the graphic on the video scoreboard out there on your putting stats?  Did you happen to see that at all?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  No.  No, I was, like I said, just trying to gauge the speed of that putt.
JOAN v.T. ALEXANDER:  Thank you, Trevor, for joining us.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT