WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 6, 2006
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAURY LIVSEY:  We have Trevor Immelman here with us.  We appreciate you coming in after a 6 under 66 today.  Talk about general comments about your round.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, I got off to a little bit of a shaky start and was 1 over there through that par 3, which is about the 6th.

And then hit two nice shots down that par 5 to about maybe ten feet and rolled that one in.  That kind of jump started my round.

I birdied the next hole and managed to make a birdie on 10 after a bad drive, 11 after a bad drive.

So I was really just kind of hanging in there, and then started to find a little bit of form on the last few holes with my ball striking.  My putter hung in there with me, so that was nice.  All in all, a pretty solid round.
Q.  Tomorrow looks like a long day with the weather.  Playing threesomes, any thoughts on that and what you're sort of facing tomorrow?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, you know, we've known all week it's coming.  I think everybody is prepared for the fact that we knew it was going to rain tomorrow.

I've grown up the last four or five years playing in Europe, so I'm used to wearing a rain jacket.  Nobody wants to play in the rain, but it's just one of those things, and all of us have experienced it before.  It's just one of those things, you know.
Q.  Do you feel like you're still getting used to playing over here, or is this all a part of a process?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I think I'm starting to find my feet a little bit.  Playing a full schedule, I think over the last three years, I've always known I was going to have only between 10 and 12 events, and when you've got that in the back of your mind, you're almost trying to force the issue when you're over here, and I was coming to play in all the big events.  I think I was maybe putting a little bit too much pressure on myself.

I think this year knowing that I was going to play a full schedule took a lot of pressure off, and I knew I could kind of pace myself and maybe try and gain some momentum as the year goes.  I don't think I've tried to force it as much, and that's a nice feeling.  So I think that's a sign I'm starting to feel a little more comfortable.
Q.  Have you moved house here completely?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  We've had a place here in Orlando for the last three years, and this year we're going to base ourselves permanently there.  I would call that home.
Q.  What is it about this golf course that seems to suit your game?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I don't really know.  I think everybody enjoys the golf course.  It's just such a great, classic golf course.  I mean, great shots get rewarded, and if you hit a bad tee shot or a bad shot, you know what you're going to get; you're going to have a lie in thick rough with fast, slick greens.

I think everybody looks forward to coming to this event because it's just a fair golf course, and the crowds are fantastic and they treat you so well.  I think everybody is pretty excited when they get here.  I don't think it's really just me.

LAURY LIVSEY:  Trevor, thanks for coming in.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT