WACHOVIA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 4, 2006
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
LAURY LIVSEY:  We'd like to welcome Trevor Immelman into the interview room.  You had a tale of two nines it looks like.  Played really well on your final nine.  Talk about that a little bit.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I actually played pretty similar all day.  Just on the back nine, which was my first nine, I got stuck on that short little par 4 there, hit it into the rough on the right and hit a sand wedge onto the green, which I thought was a pretty good shot and the ball kept running and went into the water.  So I made a double bogey there.  So that was pretty much my score on that side.

Then I turned around and hit it to about five feet on the 1st and made a birdie.

2nd hole hit it on and two putted.

3rd hole made it to about five feet and made a birdie.

4th hole I hit it to about ten feet and rolled that one in.  So I was kind of getting some momentum at that point, got to red figures again.

The next hole, par 5, I actually hit a great drive and the green was easily reachable and hit a poor second shot to the right and ended up making a 5 there.  That was a little disappointing, but I knew I had stolen a few already.

Then the next hole, I hit a 5 wood, great shot, probably the shot of the day for me to about ten feet and made a birdie there.

Then the par 5 I hit a drive and a 4 iron just short of the green and two putted.

I parred the 8th, and the 9th hole I hit a driver and a 6 iron to about four feet again and made a birdie.  Just caught some momentum there on that nine holes, and it was nice to convert all my chances.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Six birdies in nine holes, good finish.
Q.  Paul was just saying if you were going to get the course, it was there this morning.  You seem to have done as well as anybody.  How difficult was it?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, this course sets up exactly like a major.  There's no doubt about it.  This sets up exactly like a U.S. Open or a PGA.  You've got long holes and you have to be deadly accurate off the tee because if you're in the rough you've got no chance of scoring.  Even though we played in the morning and the greens were a little bit more receptive, the greens were still really fast, and there were some tricky pin positions.  If you got on the wrong side you were really struggling.

So like I said, it's just like a major.  There's a premium on hitting the ball in the fairway, and from there maybe you can take advantage of a couple holes.
Q.  Do you think that suits your game?  Is it something that    would you look forward to playing a type of tournament like this?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I enjoy courses that 25 under is not going to win.  I think that's more the type of golf where I've played my best, when the scoring is more around 10 under, around there.  So yeah, I mean, I don't think there's anybody in the field that doesn't like the course.  But I enjoy courses where the scoring is a little more around even par, absolutely.
Q.  Obviously today was good, but has your game sort of been where you wanted it to be?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I felt like I've hit the ball really solidly this year.  I haven't got too much out of it.  I don't think I've scored well enough and I don't think I've converted three shots into two shots from 100 yards and in enough.  I've been working on that a little bit and started to see some better signs at Houston and finished 11th there, so that was nice.  So I was coming in here with a little bit more confidence and I knew my game was pretty good, and just trying to build on Houston.  I've been feeling comfortable with my game.
Q.  How did you hit the 5 wood at 6?  Did you hook it in?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I hit a fade there actually.  It's about 240 yards and it plays about ten yards downhill.  I normally hit a 5 wood around 235, so I was just trying to hit a little fade and    any time you hit it anywhere on the green there, you're going to be pretty happy.  I was pretty pleased that it worked out and ran up there to about ten feet.
Q.  Are you attempting to maintain status on both Tours, European and PGA?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I am trying to do that.  It's becoming more and more challenging.  The first reason is that my World Ranking has slipped a little bit and I missed tournaments like the Match Play, I missed TPC, so it's becoming a little more challenging.  Also, my wife and I are expecting a kid later in the year, so that might even cut my schedule in Europe even more.

Like I said, I'm going to try my absolute best.  It's something that I would like to do, but I'm not 100 percent sure at this point.
Q.  How many is it that you have to play over here?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  You have to play 11 there and 15 here.  I'm comfortably going to make it here.  It's just I might miss a trip or two over to Europe.  Like I said, I'm really not sure how it's going to pan out yet.  I'm taking it month by month.
Q.  You live here?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I live in Orlando.
Q.  Other than getting to play a lot of different venues, is there some advantage in your mind to playing both?  Is it better for your career in some way?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  That's a very good question.  I mean, I grew up the last four years playing on the European Tour, and I've really enjoyed it.  I think it's been a great learning curve for me.

On the other hand, I've always wanted to play on the U.S. Tour.  It's always been a dream of mine, so once I got the opportunity, I was never going to let that go.  I'm going to be playing the majority of my golf over here.  I personally feel like it's better for somebody to concentrate on maybe one area and spend less time traveling.  Everyone is getting so good now that I find it    I think it's very difficult unless you're Ernie or Goose or Vijay or Tiger to travel back and forth and play less than 20 here.  There's no way for me to be able to compete doing that.  I have to concentrate on one Tour and hope for the best.
Q.  It seems like except for a few of the elite players, once they make it here, then they say sayonara and stay around here.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  That seems to be the trend.  I think with Ernie and Goose it might be different because they base themselves in London.  But it's becoming tougher and tougher to travel around and try and peak as many times as possible.
LAURY LIVSEY:  Trevor, thanks for coming in.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT