HSBC WORLD MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
September 14, 2005
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q. Your first time here - looking forward to the week?
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yes I am. First of all I am very excited to be here. I always remember watching this tournament growing up so it really is a dream come true to be playing in it. I'm really looking forward to it. It's a great concept for a tournament with the backing of a great sponsor and they have a good field so I think it's growing to be a great week.
Q. You must be confident coming here as a South African given your country's success in this event
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yes, we've had a bit of success here! I think Gary won here five times and Ernie six and hopefully I can follow in their footsteps. I have really vivid memories of watching Faldo and Langer have some great battles here - I always watched this event as a kid.
Q. How much will Ernie be missed?
TREVOR IMMELMAN: He definitely will be. I think he has been since he pulled out of the PGA, but as we said earlier, he has pretty much owned this tournament for the last ten years.
Q. Will you be popping into see him?
TREVOR IMMELMAN: I might do - but the problem is I might not leave! I'm sure he'll be itching to get back out here, especially with the tournament being next to his house, but I am sure when he does get back he'll be even more ready to go than what he was.
Q. How's your game?
TREVOR IMMELMAN: It feels good. I was seventh at the Canadian Open and I kind of feel that I am coming into a bit of form. We have the Presidents Cup next week so it is two very nice weeks for me. This week will get me into the Match Play mindset and it is a very good way to prepare.
Q. And an easy first round opponent for you?
TREVOR IMMELMAN: One thing is for certain - I will be hitting into the greens first, that I can assure you! I have prepared myself for that, though. Obviously Angel is a great player who has had a great season, but Match Play is a funny game so we will see what happens. I'll just play my game - not that I could try and get involved in the clubs he is hitting and the clubs he is playing because he will playing a completely different game from me.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT