MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2014
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Is there any place you were or anything funny that happened with your green jacket?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   No, not particularly.   I didn't really‑‑ I wasn't too adventurous.   Took it to the East, to China and Japan, on my travels there and home to South Africa.   
You know, I got to be honest, I think the guys in the last few years have done a little more with it, and I think it's being received real well.   I think if I had the opportunity again, I would, you know, probably be a little more adventurous with it and allow more people to see it and touch it and what have you, you know.  
   
 Q.   When you had it, were you a little worried, like I don't want to do anything too silly?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, I think I was.   I have a tremendous represent for the history of the game and for the champions that came before us, and for Augusta National.   So I didn't want to do anything that could have been, you know, construed as being disrespectful to the Club or to the Members or to, you know, to the tradition of the Masters.   I was probably a little too calm with it.  
   
 Q.   What would you like to do?   Have you ever thought about if you won again, what you would like to do?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Like I said, I would like more access‑‑ I probably would just take it around a little more and allow more people to see it.   I mean, it's such a cherished piece of, you know, sport.   It's up there with Olympic Gold Medal, the Stanley Cup, and things like that, and the World Cup in soccer and things thatjust not many people ever get to come close to.   So I think that would be exciting.   
Like I said, the guys in the last few years have done a great job with that.  
   
 Q.   Doing it around?   Doing more like the Claret, doing it around?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah.  
   
 Q.   Do people know it whenyou were out and about?   Did you know‑‑ I mean, is it that‑‑ when you go around the world, even China and Japan, they know what a green jacket is?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, absolutely, particularly in Japan.   They have a keen sense of the history of the game.   They've had a lot great players over the years, so they were very in awe of the green jacket.  
   
 Q.   Have you seen ‑‑ Gary is the one who has‑‑ he actually took his home and forgot to bring it back, right?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I'm not going to confirm or deny that.  
   
 Q.   How many rounds do you get to play with the kids and how special is it to have them out?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Oh, it's great.   My little guy has been doing this since he was, man, one and a half or two.   So he loves it and they look forward to it all the time.   They just love this week.   I mean, this week, especially since I've won.   It's special anyway, but especially since I won here, it's been a very, very special week for our family.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT