DEUTSCHE BANK - SAP OPEN TPC OF EUROPE
May 23, 2004
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  We have with us Trevor Immelman, the Deutsche Bank SAP Open TPC of Europe Champion.

Trevor, well played today.  It was a fantastic last day, 65 66.  Take us how you saw these last few holes unfold.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Well, I mean, the whole day, I was just really trying to play my game and make as many birdies as possible.  The wind was coming and going, which made it a little tricky, but it was a lot easier than last two days.  My game plan is to just go out there and try to hit the best shots as I could and try to make as many birdies as possible.

I didn't watch any boards at all.  And walking up the 18th tee, I asked Neal what the situation was and he told me we were tied.  Right from when he said that it was all systems go to try to make a 3 at the last.
GORDON SIMPSON:  And Haeggman said I think he was looking for a payment for giving you a read on last there, wasn't he?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I tell you what, he hit a great putt from the left side and I had to move my coin and his ball kind of went around right over my mark and just dribbled off to the right.  I knew the putt was coming off the left, and eventually I just played it a hair outside the hole and fortunately enough it went in.
Q.  How long on your second shot?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I had a 9 iron and I had 153 yards, probably eight feet.
Q.  And did you hit driver?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   3 wood off the tee.
Q.  Just wanted to ask about your putting, which seemed to be getting better and better every day.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, I holed putts, but I had 13 other clubs in my bag, as well.  You know, I drove the ball fantastically with my new Nike driver.  On the 18th tee there, that was a new Nike 3 wood that I got a couple of weeks ago.
GORDON SIMPSON:  The Nike advert.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Well, to be totally honest with you guys, I was a little disappointed with what you did after Thursday.  And, you know, I definitely didn't shoot 65 by not holing any putts, and I just wanted to make sure that you guys understand that.  You know, you've got to hit the ball well to win tournaments, as well.  You don't just hole putts.

As I said, I had 13 other clubs in my bag that worked just as well.
Q.  I think we appreciate that, but it seemed you were holing many long putts down the stretch there.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, I think you can put a lot of that to the good greens, too.  The greens were in fantastic condition.  They were rolling nice and true.  I guess it was just my week.  I am enjoying     I've worked real hard on my putting, and now I'm starting to hole a few and it's very exciting to just get some momentum going.
Q.  Why a little bit disappointed in us?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Well, don't take that out of context, please.  I just felt like we've got a lot of our top players on the Tour that use the belly putter, we've got arguably the best player in the world right now using a belly putter, and I've never really read too much about them using it, to be honest.  You tell me.  So I just kind of felt
Q.  Inaudible?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I haven't spoken to him about it.

Really, I'm not trying to make something out of anything here.  I just, you know, wanted to make sure that you guys understand, I had 13 other good clubs in my bag, too.  Thank you.
Q.  Inaudible?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   You know, I'm not quite sure where this will jump me to, but, you know, to win this tournament which is one of our biggest tournaments on the European Tour, and against one of our strongest fields of the year, it's a tremendous feeling.

So, you know, hopefully this can give me the confidence to push on from here.  As I said earlier in the week, I got into the mid to low 30s in the World Rankings before and I've kind of fallen back, so hopefully I can try and keep going from here.
Q.  Are you thinking U.S. Tour?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Why do you always ask me these controversial questions?  You know, I love the European Tour.  I've been playing here for four years.  I've had a fantastic time.  You know, I'm taking it week for week, as we go, and right now, I'm a member of the European Tour and I'm very happy to be a member of the European Tour.  I find myself, I'm thankful that I have the opportunity to go over to the States and play in the odd tournament and play the majors over there.

But, you know, I'm just taking week for week right now, and right now, I'm a member of the European Tour and I'm not going to look any further than that.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Trevor, we'll see you next week at Wentworth, well done.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT