DEUTSCHE BANK - SAP OPEN TPC OF EUROPE
May 22, 2004
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
GORDON SIMPSON:  A round of 69 today and that putt at the last it looked as if it might have got away from you, but just sneaked in.  I'm sure that made a big difference, the 69 to the 70.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, I was very happy with the putt at last there.  Yesterday I birdied the last hole, as well.  I bogeyed the last hole as well.  I didn't want to lose any momentum there, so I was real glad when it fell to the bottom eventually.
GORDON SIMPSON:  The last couple of days have been quite strenuous work out there.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, the course has really shown its teeth after the first day.  I was just saying earlier to somebody that there was a lot of holes that were crosswind, and you can't really feel whether it's helping you or hurting you.  There were times you feel like you're guessing with the distance a little bit, and so you've really got to go out there and commit yourself and just be tough.

It's kind of, you know, you've got British Open feel with the wind and the coldness, and you've got the U.S. Open feel with the greens and the rough.  So you kind of are just trying to hang in there, you know.
GORDON SIMPSON:  It's a tough combination, obviously.  And how do you view the tournament?  Obviously you and Pad seem to be working well with each other, making birdies.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah we've played a lot together and I think we both feel comfortable playing with each other.  Obviously he's turned into one of best players in the word.  He hit some fantastic shots out there today.  You could just see the shot he hit into the last hole was top notch.  He'll definitely be somebody to contend with tomorrow.
Q.  How do you feel about the comments of you playing with the belly putter?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I'm very surprised to be honest with you, because it's been around for a long time, and I'm definitely not the first person to use it.  A few of our top players here in Europe have won tournaments with it, Colin Montgomerie, Lee Westwood.  Nobody has really said anything.  You know, you have arguably the best player in the world the last 18 months, Vijay Singh, using one, and I never really hear anybody say anything.

So I was very surprised, and a little disappointed, in fact, but what can you do.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Well, I think you answered that one satisfactorily.  Thank you very much and good luck tomorrow.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT