RENO-TAHOE OPEN
August 1, 2013
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Nice start to the tournament.   Just gets some comments on the round today. 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, I played well.   You know, I played well last week in Canada, and so today was kind of just along the same lines.
Obviously in this format you're just trying to make as many birdies as possible and not make a double.
But it was tricky out there.   The wind was blowing, and when the wind blows here with the amount of elevation, it really can be quite tricky.   I managed to make some putts and make six birdies, so I'm really happy with the day.

Q.   I know a little bit of a struggle for you over the last month,   month and a half or so.   But last week in Canada, just one tournament can get you going in the right direction, can't it? 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, absolutely.   One round really can.     When you look to the stats, I mean, I'm 180th in putting.     You don't have to be a rocket scientist to figure out what the issue is.
We're addressing that, and hopefully I can turn it around here and get things going.

Q.   What are your thoughts on the course? 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Course itself is fantastic.   Like I said, obviously in this type of terrain there are some interesting shots.   Like the shot on 17 where you know you're hitting it 320 yards and hitting 6‑iron, so it's kind of crazy.
Couple times around and you get used to it.   The course is in perfect shape.   The defense of the course is when this wind blows.   Then when you have this type of elevation, the slope and the wind to factor in, three fairly large variables.   That makes it tricky. 

Q.   Does that alter how you attack the course at all?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:     I think in the back of your mind you care less about a bogey, as long as you're making a few birdies.   Losing one point is not the end of the world.   But if you make a double, losing three kind of sucks.
Like I said, if you can make a few birdies ‑ and if you happen throw in a few bogeys it's okay, as long as you don't have minus 3 at some point. 

Q.   What made you want to come back to this course?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Well, man, I need to play and play well to get into the playoffs.   It is what is is, so I'm here.

Q.   Is it a different feeling with two tournaments left after this to play make the playoffs?   Is there a little bit more pressure, I guess? 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   No.   I just got to play well.   To be honest, I put all the work in.   I've been working real hard for a while.     You know, I'm not going to quit.   I'm going to keep grinding it out and keep trying to improve. 
Just got to keep playing, and hopefully it turns around. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT