VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 23, 2003
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.  69, you started well but finished not quite so well; you must be a little disappointed with the end. 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, I got off to a good start, which is for the first time ever on this golf course.  I got to the 10th hole and thought I had quite a nice tee shot, just came up short, went down the bank and missed a short putt.  Missed another short one on 11,  then holed one for eagle on 12 and that got me going a little bit. 
You know, then I missed a 10-footer, a 15-footer.  Then two putts from four feet and six feet on the last two holes.  I think it could have been a few shots better, but all in all I'm happy.  I've been a little inconsistent of late, so to put two solid rounds together back-to-back is going to be good for my confidence. 

Q.  It was such a great start to the year, winning the South African title, was that almost too good a start; do you feel you lost momentum since then? 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I've definitely lost momentum.  I put a lot of work into my game in the off-season over December and the start of January, and really wanted to peak for those tournaments in South Africa.  You know, I did, and I think it took a lot out of me.  Then I was kind of flying all over the world, playing The Match Play and down in Australia and Dubai and then back to the States playing there.  So I think I had run out of gas by the time Bay Hill and TPC and all those tournaments came around. 
I've kind of lost my momentum a little bit, as you said, but I've been working hard at it.  It's just, as I said, nice to put two solid rounds together again. 

Q.  I gather you lost an inch around the waist and put on about ten pounds. 
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, I've been working hard on the physical side.  Obviously being 5Ã‚ ¹9, I've got to get everything out of it that I can.  I've been working with a trainer over in the States and we've done some good work.  So I'm feeling good.  And I've always believed if you feel that you've got a strong body, you've got a strong mind.  That's where I'm coming from. 




End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT