MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 12, 2013
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   You started the round par‑birdie.   What were you thinking could happen today with the conditions?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Well, I was thinking I started par‑birdie.   If you get ahead of yourself at a tournament like this or at a course like this, you are pretty inexperienced, and so I was just satisfied with a good start.   The first hole is playing really tough today.   First shot, second shot, cross‑breeze and the toughest flag on that green, so I was really happy with a 4 there and managed to get up‑and‑down for a 4 on the next, so I was really happy with that start.   I couldn't ask for any more.   
And I played some good golf today.   Second shot on 11 cost me.   It wasn't a bad shot, I just misjudged the cross breeze a little bit and the ball pitched on the green and jumped left in the water there and made the double there.   But you know, I've got to tell you, the course is very tricky today, some pretty challenging pin positions, and a lot of times with this amount of breeze you can only get 30 or 40 feet from the hole.   Once you're on the green it's tricky today, too, because you've got to start reading some wind on the putts from a break standpoint, and it's a different animal today.  
   
 Q.   How far was the putt on 2?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Only about four feet.   
   
 Q.   On the double bogey on 11, what did you have to make to make that?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I hit a nice drive and a 6‑iron, and like I said, I just misjudged it.   I hit it really solidly.   And then I went to the drop zone, hit a beautiful pitch to about four feet and missed the putt for bogey.   Not a bad putt, just under‑read it a little bit.   Kind of took the wind out of my sails, but I hung in there on the way in.   
   
 Q.   Being in the red numbers still with the way that the course seems to be playing, are you pretty happy with that?   I know you did not want to lose ground, but it seems like the rest of the field is not really setting it on fire, either.   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, I look at it as what it is; I can't do anything about it now.   I fought as hard as I could when I was out there.   You know, but I don't think I'll be too far away.   If I play my best golf on the weekend, I should have a chance.   
   
 Q.   You talked about how well you remember 2008, and other players here have to visualize what it must be like to play for rounds and win the Masters.   Do you feel like that helps you confidence‑wise going into the next two days?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, there's no doubt about it.   Like I said yesterday and all week, I know what it takes to win here, and I know where the ball needs to be put and where it needs to be left on the second shots.   It's just the execution part.   You know, like I said, if I play my best golf and I can execute, I certainly do have the experience to get it done.   
   
 Q.   Do you feel like you missed a couple opportunities out there?   You hit a real nice approach on 18 to put yourself‑‑ and then you ended up making a nice up‑and‑down to put it near the pin.   Do you feel like you missed a chance there coming in?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   No.   I mean, look, you're giving it your best on every shot.   If I had to sit here and second‑guess every shot over my 13‑year career, I probably would be in a mental institution.   
   
 Q.   I'm not going to say that your season has been exactly what you've been looking for, but it sounds like that you hit the ball pretty much in most cases exactly how you wanted to.   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I would say that's fairly accurate.   
   
 Q.   So coming into tomorrow and Sunday, if it's windy then everybody is going to have to contend with that.   But if it's a day like you had yesterday or similar to that, you would feel pretty comfortable with your chances?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah.   Yeah, I mean, I've hit the ball solidly this year.   I've made a lot of changes toward the end of last year, and some of it is still quite conscious while I'm out there, and that's not an ideal situation.   You'd like to be out there just free‑wheeling.   But I've had a nice rhythm going this week, and I have hit the ball fairly solidly, but I haven't quite been taking advantage of the good shots on the greens for the most part this season.   You know, so that's why I think yesterday was nice.   Yesterday I made some of those putts after the good shots and saved some shots when I did hit a bad one, and I think that was the reason why I shot a nice, solid round.   
If I can find a way to do that for two days, you never know.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT