MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2013
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  MODERATOR:   Pleased to introduce Trevor Immelman to the interview room.   Congratulations on a great start to the 2013 Masters.   Are there any questions, please?   
   
 Q.   You were saying down in Florida that you really felt like you were one really good performance away from just getting kick‑started.   Is this like the perfect place for you to kind of have that performance because you're so comfortable here?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   It would be nice.   You know, it's probably a little too early to tell.   I mean, today it was nice to go out there and score well.   
You know, when I spoke to you in West Palm Beach, I felt like I had made some inroads to what I was trying to do with my full swing, and you know, I started seeing some better stuff in practice.   
But you know, shortly after I spoke to you, I continued to hit the ball quite solidly but really struggled on the greens in the Florida Swing.   
So I put some extra time into that last week.   Obviously I think coming here helps me because I know the greens so well and I've played here many times and know some of the lines.   I think that helps me a little bit.   But like I said, there's a long way to go, and you know, hopefully I can keep this momentum going.   
   
 Q.   Have you had this good a start here in recent years?   You've had some good finishes here, you haven't missed a cut I don't think since winning, but have you had this good a start in the Tournament?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I don't think so.   I think I've had some under‑par rounds to start the Tournament, but I'm not sure that I've had a 68 to start the Tournament since I shot 68 to start in 2008.   
   
 Q.   Not that you remember that or anything.   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Somebody just reminded me earlier (laughing).   
So, yeah, look, any time in a major you can get out to a nice start and get a few under your belt, birdies are precious commodities at these types of tournaments.   So you try and bank them for as long as you can.   
   
 Q.   Was there a point today that you said, this is what I've been looking for, I've got it, I feel good out here; is there a swing or a putt or anything like that?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   No (laughing).   I think one of the kind of missing ingredients for me right now is I need to start to gain some of the confidence that I had five or six years ago when I had a nice run for a few years.   
So I wouldn't say I'm at that point yet to where I get to the middle of the round and say, well, okay, this is it.   But I definitely found a nice rhythm on the back 9 and started hitting some quality shots and then converted the putts.   So that was a nice feeling.   
You know, I do remember what it was like (laughter).   And so like I said, hopefully if I can keep some momentum going, I don't think I'll be over‑awed by the situation if I had to hang around for a few more days.   Like I said, I do remember what it was like and what it took to play well here.   We'll see what happens come tomorrow morning.   
   
 Q.   Do you like coming back quickly?   Most guys like to play late/early on Tour.   Do you like the idea?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Oh, I can't say that it really bothers me too much.   I do believe it's supposed to be colder tomorrow, which would be tricky.   Like the first hole, makes it a lot longer and the fourth hole, fifth hole.   So some of the par 4s and par 3s on the front nine start playing a lot tougher, so you're going to have some good ball‑striking there.  
   
 Q.   There might be a little weather tonight, too.   The course being wet, there could be rain first thing in the morning and start to clear up.   Does that bother you if the course gets long and wet in those kind of conditions?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   No, I don't think it bothers me.   I think the greens will be just fine.   They will be able to keep the majority of the moisture out of there.   You've just got to be careful with the fairways.   There will be possibilities, you know, with some mud out there, and that always presents a massive challenge here, because you have to be so precise with your approach shots here that some mud on the ball could sow some seeds of doubt and it becomes quite a challenge.   
   
 Q.   Tiger was talking about how the greens seemed kind of slow today; he was surprised by it.   Is that something you noticed out there?   Was the speed a little slower than what you expected?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   No.   You know, I've been here since Saturday playing, practicing, and so I was quite comfortable with where they were at.   
MODERATOR:   Thanks for your time here today and we wish you the very best of rest of the week.  
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT