CIMB CLASSIC
October 26, 2012
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   That must have felt really nice?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, it was great.   Obviously, it was an early start this morning, and I woke up just before 5:00 and got out here and got ready to play.   Started with a nice birdie on number two, and then I followed that up on number three, and it just kind of got me going.   
Nick was playing really well.   We're making a lot of birdies, so we just kind of kept going.   It was nice to keep the momentum all day.  
   
 Q.   Did it help that they were playing to the lie today?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, there's no doubt.   There was a lot of mud.   Yesterday was a bit of a borderline call that could have gone either way.   I understood what they were trying to do.   But if you were in the fairway, a lot of mud made it really tricky to these small little greens.   So having preferred lie today definitely did help once you could clean it, and control the ball on your second shot a little bit.  
   
 Q.   I'm sure your game must have been so much better from yesterday's opening round and today's 63.   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   A little bit.   I hit better iron shots.   The difference today was I made some putts.   Where yesterday get shots I did hit, I didn't make the putts for the birdie.   Today those were going in.   Played the par 5s nicely.   So, yeah, it was a nice, fun round of golf for me.   I felt pretty good out there.  
   
 Q.   Is this your best round of the year as well?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Probably, not sure.  
   
 Q.   With your wrist issues, is it all good now?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, I'm in great shape.   My wrist is all healed up.   Everything, no injuries, everything is good.   So I'm hoping to start shooting a few more rounds like this.   Getting some momentum, getting some confidence, and hopefully come out next year and play like I know I can play.  
   
 Q.   Must be nice to see your name on the leaderboard again?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, absolutely.   That's why I spend all that time practicing is for those moments.   It's a good feeling.  
   
 Q.   Two more rounds to go.   Do you think the leaders will get into double digits by the end of the day?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   We showed today and yesterday that there's a 62, 63 or 64 out there if you played really well.   So you've got to keep going.   Yeah, the leaders will get to double digits.   You'll probably have to be between 20‑ to 25‑under if you want to win.  
   
 Q.   Are you going to put in anymore work at the range later?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I'm not sure.   I'll see how I feel.   I'm going to have on some lunch and rest and see what happens.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT