PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 10, 2012
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Given the conditions today, you must be super happy?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Thanks, it's brutal out there, I'm not going to lie.   It's real hard.   The interesting thing about this golf course is this breeze just blows straight across every shot, so you're going to be to the left or right, so it's hard to get any type of rhythm.   Just put my head down and try to get the ball out as fast as I could.   Chipped in a couple of times.   All in all, pretty satisfying.   
   
 Q.   You've seen both sides of the course, what it was like yesterday and contrasted to today; how big is that difference?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   The front nine that I played yesterday morning, there was not a breath of wind.   It was just absolutely majestic.   
Today, starting on No. 10 this afternoon, it was about 220 yard carry to the fairway, and I said, man, I'd better hit this thing good to get it to the fairway.   It's brutal out there.   
   
 Q.   Anything you can compare this to, courses you've played, conditions you've been in that's similar?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Sure, playing in Ireland and Scotland, playing links golf, you get days like this, but the courses are totally different.   Those courses are designed for this type of condition, designed for you to run the ball.   There's no forced carries.   There's no water hazards.   There might be a couple burns or something like that for you to deal with, but on this course, even though we are right here at the ocean, there's a lot of forced carries off the hazards, and when this type of breeze blows, it makes for an interesting day.  
   
 Q.   17, everybody seems to be struggling; you also had a bit of trouble there.   What is it about that hole that makes it tough?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   I think I was closer to the 10th hole than I was to the 17th.   You know, you've obviously got water on the right and you're trying to make sure that you can carry all of that.   You're just trying to get that right distance, and I just pulled mine in the breeze, the breeze was down out of the right and the ball just took off.   You know, you're really just trying to squeeze it up and 2‑putt from about 40 feet and get out of there.   
   
 Q.   The experience you had winning the Masters, how important is that when it comes to a day like today and it's shocking conditions and you have to knuckle down and get through it?   
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   We have all had days like this in our careers.   We've been out here for a long time and there are days like this where you have to grind and try to get to the house as soon as we can.   
That's what I was trying to do, just hang tough, and thankfully I did.   
   
 Q.   Seven out of ten South Africans should be through to the weekend, that's great for golf, isn't it?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN:   Yeah, we've had such a great sporting run here of late, the South Africans, and it's been great for me to be over here and watch the guys do so well at the Olympics and see Ernie winning at The Open a couple of weeks ago; it's been fantastic.   I think as a nation, we should be so proud of our sporting ambassadors.   The rugby players and cricket players, they have been doing so well over the last few years.   It's fantastic to be‑‑ for a person like me who doesn't live in South Africa anymore who lives here in the States, it's just so much fun to get it on TV and watch guys that you know and watch people from your home country do so well.   It's awesome.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT