THE MCGLADREY CLASSIC
October 15, 2011
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. 8 understand par 62 in the third round. That follows up 66, 71. You're at 11-under par and you tied the competitive course record today. Tell us about it.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I really played well today. Lost of 3s out there, which is always a great sign.   
  
  Q. You closed with 3, 3, 3, 2, 3. That's like a ZIP code.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I know. I can't say that I've ever done that before. In fact, I think this is my lowest competitive round ever, 62, so really happy with it.   
 It was a great day. We had some breeze to start, but it really lied down for us the last five or six holes. Got some putts to go in, so it was great.   
  
  Q. You're hitting your irons really close to the hole as well.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I mean, I really did play well today. You know, it was great. I got a new Callaway driver last week, the new RAZR Fit, and then put myself in the fairways.   
 Once you're in the fairway, you know, then you can have a chance to be more aggressive with those irons. So happy about that.  
  
  Q. You're all healthy now, hitting the ball close to the hole, making some putts. What are you going to do this afternoon? You've put yourself within striking distance with one round to play.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, well, this is my third week in a row, so, you know, hit a lot of balls the last three weeks. I'll go back, just rest, and get ready. I plan on playing next week, too.   
 So in the middle of a long run here, and just rest up for tomorrow and look forward to it.   
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Good question. I don't even know how many under I was on the last few there. I just kind of kept it going.   
  
  Q. 6-under.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: 6 in the last how many holes?   
  
  Q. 5.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I mean, that's always going to help the round, that's for sure. You know, I played real well today. I drove the ball well and hit some nice iron shots and then I made some putts.  
 I mean, It really was a fun day. We had little bit of breeze to start, and then that died off, which made it even better. Yeah, just a lot fun.  
  
  Q. You been playing better lately, haven't you?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I mean, I think I played pretty solid this year. I mean, been a year that I've actually been able to get out and play when I want to play and practice when I want to practice.   
 So I would agree. I've been turning up for the most part this season. So, you know, I'm just the same person. Just doing what I'm doing and hope for the best.  
  
  Q. Some of your better finishes this year were in Augusta, Bay Hill, PGA.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Uh-huh.  
  
  Q. So do you feel things are slowly coming back to where you're competing on these kinds of courses?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, like I said, I really do. This year, you know, it's been giving me a lot peace of mind to be able to go out and practice when I want to practice and as much as I want to practice, work on the things that I used to be able to without being any pain.  
 And so with all that work I started to see some better signs; as I seen better signs I got a bit more confidence; and so it's really just that type of a process. You know, it's been fun for me to, like I said, be able to come out and compete this year all year without having to take breaks.  
  
  Q. When was its last time you went through a whole season healthy?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I can't even say 2008, because the last third of 2008 I was already feeling pain. So, you know, the first three quarters of 2008.   
 You know, 2007 was pretty solid, but then I had to have the tumor taken out at the end of that year. For the most part I was good before that, and the wrist really came out of nowhere and slowed me down for a couple years.  
 But I'm still only about to turn 32 and I still believe I have my best golf ahead of me.  
  
  Q. So '06 if you had to pick 12 full, healthy months?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, '06 was by far the best year of my career. I mean, I played so solidly. You know, really for an 10-, 11-month stretch there I was playing some fantastic golf. Sort of last three quarters of '06 and the first quarter of '07 I really did play some great stuff.  
 So that's really, yeah, time to try to get back there.  
  
  Q. Can you ever remember finishing a round like that today?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I can't say that I can, no. (Laughter.)  
  
  Q. Ten 3s.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Really?   
  
  Q. Yeah.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I mean, I noticed that. About halfway through the back nine when I was marking the scores down I noticed that there were a lot of 3s.   
 But in those moments you're just trying to stay out of your own way and trying not to think. You know, things are obviously going well for you on the day, and you're just trying to get in the house without having anything go through your mind.   
  
  Q. (Recording in progress.)  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: You know, it just comes with the territory in sport and in business for that matter. So that's just the way things are. I think if you have an ego that gets in the way, you're probably going to have a bit longer of a struggle than what you should.  
 You know, whilst I was injured and not playing the way I wanted to, I was frustrated with the results. I never really lost the (indiscernible) I just knew that it was going to take longer for me to get back to where I know that I can be.   
 You know, I'm not saying for one second it's because of this round I'm back to where I want to be, but obviously it's a great sign. I've put a lot of work in this year. I've enjoyed playing golf this year. I haven't had to worry about my wrist.   
 So it's been great fun being able to compete and play in pressure as much as I want. I love it, so hopefully that's a good sign for me.  
  
  Q. (No microphone.)  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, like I said, it's frustrating, but you always try to keep a strong perspective, understand how, you know, fortunate I am. Very fortunate in other areas of my life. I've got a very healthy family, obviously pretty much had a real solid career in the first eight or nine years of my professional life.   
 So I had a lot to be thankful for, and I tried not to lost sight of that and just work my butt off and get healthy and get back to playing.  
  
  Q. When you work that hard and you go out and put up ten 3s on a card and finish with 6-under over your last five holes, how refreshing is that?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I mean, it's fun. You know, I would say that the regular fan out there probably doesn't realize the amount of time that we invest. You know, I'm obviously not complaining about it for one second. But when we're at home, we're putting upwards of six to eight hours in in a day playing golf, working out, getting body work done.   
 And so just like anything, it's hard work if you want to play well. So it's always nice to go out there and play well and see some of that work pay off.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT