THE GREENBRIER CLASSIC
July 29, 2011
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Obvious question, but what was the difference between 64 and 70?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: A few putts, really. I pretty much hit the ball the same. And especially early on I had a lot of good chances inside of ten feet. Never really got in and going. But like I said yesterday, when you play in the afternoons here and there's a little bit of breeze, it swirls around and makes club choice very difficult. The biggest swirling breeze I've ever played on a golf course, even more than Augusta. The wind really moves around a lot here. That's probably why you see some players coming up 30 feet long, 30 feet short.  
  
  Q. How important was it to get back to even par for the day?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: It was great. I was grinding it out and made a good up-and-down there on 17. Like I said, anything that's par or under around here in the afternoon is really good with the way the wind.  
  
  Q. You've got it behind you. Now the weekend is right in front of you, right?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I mean, I'm looking forward to it. Probably the closest I've been to the lead in a little while.   
 It's exciting for me. It's going to be great to have an opportunity.   
  
  Q. Your round was so darned good and solid. Today, a little scratchy. But you got it home?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I played pretty solid today. Played pretty solid today. Just didn't make any putts really until the last couple of holes, I made the four-footer and seven-footer, and but all in all pretty happy.  
  
  Q. Struck the ball really well, gave yourself some chances early on in the round. I thought you would be able to build on that momentum. The missed short putt at 5, put the brakes on?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Started at No. 2 when I missed it five feet and missed it. And then on 5 -- on 4, I hit another short putt for birdie and missed it and the 3-putted 5. Had a funny switch there and kind of took some momentum away from me with the putter there. But hopefully I can go hit a few putts now and get comfortable for tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You spent a lot of time with your putter during the round over in the corner trying to find something. Did you find something that you think you can work on and have it for Saturday?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah. I think my tendency is to get my grip a little too far down in the fingers on the left hand and then the putter blade doesn't swing back and come through really. So I was really just trying to get my grip comfortable and a nice roll between the finish, but I'll definitely go hit some putts now.   
  
  Q. Describe your round, a little up-and-down.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: All in all I hit the ball pretty much the same as yesterday. Just didn't quite make as many putts. And so I struggled to get any momentum. But it was nice to finish for birdie, get it back to even for the day.  
  
  Q. How much different does the course play in the high heat play in the afternoon?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: The heat is fantastic. Makes the ball go further. That's lovely. But the breeze is swirling around making club choice very difficult. And you know you just gotta hit as soon as you feel the wind in a particular direction.   
  
  Q. Does the possibility of getting into the Bridgestone, (inaudible) from your end?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: It would be fantastic. And I'd love to be there. But the furthest thing from my mind. I'm here to play, here this week, hopefully to play well this week, and two more rounds to go and hopefully, if things go my way, then that will be icing on the cake.   
  
  Q. Feeling pretty good about yourself, your physical condition, your game and everything right now, it's all coming into play?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I've kind of felt like this for most of the year.   
 And so it's nice to just see a few good rounds coming in, giving myself a chance.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT