MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 8, 2011
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Thoughts about today. Nice ending, I guess?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, that was nice to make that putt. You know, actually played okay today. I played quite well, really. 
 I made a bogey on 7, hit a couple good shots and ended up missing a 12-footer, so that wasn't ideal. 
 Other than that I played the front nine really well. 
 Then I birdied 10. 
 And I landed in the water on 11, made a good up-and-down. So made bogey there. 
 And then 12 hit a good shot, ball came back in the trap. Didn't get it up-and-down. 
 So I kind of went through a little funny patch there. 
 And then I 3-putted 15, which is definitely not ideal, because I knew exactly what I needed to do, but I hit the putt too hard and missed the one coming back. 
 And then birdied 18. 
 So really, if you take away the 3-putt on 15 and maybe the silly bogeys at 7 and 11 it could have been something quite good. 
 The course definitely played tougher today. The wind's swirling around a little bit. Pins were a little tougher. And so you know anything under par today would be a good score. 

 Q. It's been a pretty long ordeal for you from three years ago. What's kept your spirits up?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I feel great this year. There's been no wrist issue at all, which has been great. It's been since the latter part of 2008 that I haven't had to think about it. You know what's kept me going is the fact that I feel like I got more in me than the tournaments I won. And I'm only 31 years old. So theoretically or realistically I mean my best golf should really still be ahead of me in my mid 30s. And so that's been the thing that's kept me going. 
 What else have I got to do? 
 (Laughter.) Look after my kids? 

 Q. It looks like Matsuyama might make the cut. 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, he hung in there quite well. And it looks like he should make the cut. That's a fantastic achievement as an amateur player. 

 Q. You did that, didn't you?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Um-hum. '99. 

 Q. How big of an accomplishment is that?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I think it's great. It's a big week for those guys. And there's a lot of things here that they wouldn't have experienced before. The huge atmosphere, tremendous history behind this venue and rubbing shoulders with the greatest players in the game, so it can be quite overwhelming. So I think if a guy is playing well enough to make the cut I think it's a great achievement.

 Q. You mentioned, well, multiple times over multiple years that this is probably your favorite week of the year because of the way this course sets up for you and the way you feel on this golf course. Is that why you're a little kind of bummed right now, just didn't get, didn't take care of the par-5s or whatever, didn't do what you wanted to do. 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: No, I obviously love it here. I always played well here and always had tremendous respect for how this club was founded and playing for Bobby Jones and everything behind this golf course. 
 So this one and The Open Championship have always been two that I've really, really had my most fun playing. Obviously I, those are the two that I was able to watch the most growing up as a kid in South Africa, so that was always the key there. 
 But yeah, you know, because I actually felt like I played better than yesterday and shot four shots worse. 
 So definitely if I would have made a few more putts there that might have got myself a little closer to the lead. 

 Q. What is your, what is the single most difficult shot you routinely make on this golf course, be it approach shot or a chip shot or anything?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Just one particular shot all day? 

 Q. Where you say, wow. 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well that's a great question. There's a lot of key ones here. There's a lot of key shots here. A lot of tee shots where you just got to get the right line and then there's a lot of second shots where you've just only got a couple yards to work with. 
 I mean the 16th hole today is a prime example. You should just go and put yourself down there and watch that. You really got maybe, maybe six seven feet to land the ball in. And the breeze just could be coming from any particular direction. So there's just a bunch of those type of shots. 
 12, I thought I hit a perfect 8-iron and I was kind of expecting the ball to be 10 feet and I landed in the bunker and I made a bogey. So there's just, there's so many different shots that could pose a threat.

 Q. And it's probably also dependent on wind and where the hole location is and that. 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Absolutely. 

 Q. Describe what happened on 11. You were in --
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I hit a decent drive, I was just in the first cut and I just over drew my 6-iron into the green and got on the breeze and just rode the wind too much. And actually made a good five in the end getting it up-and-down from that drop zone.

 Q. That is a hard shot. 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, exactly. Yeah, absolutely. First of all you got to stripe the tee shot. And it was a nice pin today. I think you might see a few birdies. By just got the ball drifting on that breeze too much. 

 Q. Is the grass here denser than in years past? Is it a more lush golf course?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, they did a great job, great grass covering throughout the facility. A lot of places where it could tend to be a bit thin, behind 10, the 12th green, its just lush and pure.

 Q. And your getting better lies out of that, right?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Absolutely. Absolutely. No doubt about it.

 Q. When you think of 11 what do you think is the challenge in playing that hole?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well I try to hit the fairway and then hit the green and make the putt. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT