MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 7, 2011
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q. Some general thoughts on your round?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, you know, I started off a little bit shaky maybe is the right word. You know, was kind of just missing my shots, wasn't really committing very well, but my short game, really, helped me on the front side. And then from about 10 onward I started feeling a little bit more comfortable and hitting some shots out of the middle, and then I made a great 3 on 15. And then I had three putts in a row inside ten feet the last three holes. All in all very pleased with my round.   
  
  Q. How did you make 3 at 15?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I hit a driver, and then I hit a 5-wood to about six feet.  
  
  Q. 17, how far did you have to the hole, second shot?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I had about 200 yards, and then it's uphill. Actually my tee shot was a little bit better than where the ball finished. I did tug it a hair. Must have just clipped the top of that tree.  
  
  Q. The first tree?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah -- well, yeah. I don't know, one of the two. And one of the best shots I've hit here at Augusta actually, 4-iron way up in the sky, managed to stop it to ten feet. If I would have had a wedge in my hand I would have been over the moon with that shot. So I'll take it.  
  
  Q. You were jumping to see. Were you trying to see the flag?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I couldn't see the flag, yeah. I was just trying to pick a tree behind the flag, something I could aim at.   
  
  Q. Are you all the way back? Are you getting there?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: My wrist is all the way back, yeah. My wrist is all the way back. I would say this year -- from about November, December last year, I didn't have to worry about it as much, and I could go ahead and start practicing stuff I wanted to practice. You know, at that point it just became a matter of me getting in the right practice and trying to get rid of all the bad habits I got into playing injured. So that's been a process, and it's been pretty good on the range. And I've started taking it better to the golf course. You know, every week seems to be getting a little bit better, but I've still got a long way to go to get back to where I was.  
  
  Q. A lot of the guys talked about the fact that the golf course seems to be a little friendly today. What are your thoughts on that?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, I would say that they're foolish to say that, first of all. You know, obviously when we have these conditions, mid-70s with not much breeze, you know, players are good, and if somebody is on their game, they're going to go out and make some birdies. But you know, I would say that you never know what's coming tomorrow, so make the birdies while you can and see what happens.   
  
  Q. Is it still a wide-open tournament?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Absolutely. Why not? Why wouldn't it be? Three days to go.  
  
  Q. You say they're foolish to say that because the course can change from day to night?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, yes. First of all, you know, the greens could get firmer, the greens could get faster, they could start putting pin positions closer to the edges, they could move some of the tee boxes back that they had forward today, and so -- yeah.   
  
  Q. Don't get comfortable?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: No, I would say that's an inexperienced statement.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT