THE OPEN CHAMPIONSHIP
July 16, 2010
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Your thoughts on the day and surviving it and how bad it was and all that. 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, my thoughts on the day was that it was windy, extremely windy, and borderline playable at times. And so, you know, that made for a very difficult day. You know, the pins were tough. They were all on the left going out and couldn't get to them, all on the right, couldn't get to them. Just a lot of 60-, 70-, 80-foot putts that I found out today I'm not very good at. 
 You know, it was tough. Just hanging in there trying to finish without shooting yourself in the foot.

 Q. Where were you when the delay happened?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I was on the 5th green.

 Q. Do you think they should have delayed it earlier? 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I don't know. I mean, my balls weren't rolling at that point, but on that 5th and -- what is it, 5 and 13 share the shame green, that's pretty exposed, and there was a lot of movement up there. And when you get to 7 and 11, that's where it's touch and go all day long, probably still right now. I mean, that's pretty brutal, that one. But other than that, you just had to hang in there and hope the ball didn't move on you when you've grounded your club. To me that's one of the most -- I understand the rule, but it's such an unfair rule because you haven't really done anything wrong and the balling starts to roll and you incur a penalty. That was the kind of thing you have to be careful of today.

 Q. Did anybody clip it or --
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Not that I know of, no. It must have taken us about -- I don't even know how long to play. It took us 45 minutes to play the 11th hole, which is a 170-yard par-3. I don't know, it's difficult.

 Q. (Inaudible.)
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, that was it. I had just birdied 10 to get back to even for the day and I was pretty excited, and I had a 6-iron, trying to hit a smooth 6-iron on 11 and I'm aiming 20 yards left of the flag, and I felt like I hit a good shot, and halfway there it made a U-turn and finished on the green. But man, it must have been 40 yards, so I've got a putt of 40 yards long. 
 Anyway, so I left it about ten yards short and made bogey there. But that was the kind of stuff that you had to deal with that you wouldn't see at any other golf tournament or any other golf course. So that's what makes it special.

 Q. It's so exposed here, no trees or buildings or anything to knock the wind down. 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: No, I mean, the first normal swing I felt like I could make was on the 13th tee, where it was a little bit sheltered. But other than that, you were just trying to hang on.

 Q. Was this as windy as you've ever played in?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: No, the wind can blow in Cape Town.

 Q. One question about Louis Oosthuizen. 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: You've got to at least learn to pronounce his name if he's leading the Open Championship. 

 Q. We've been trying to figure it out all day. Is this something you saw in him, coming along and breaking out in an Open Championship?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Oh, yeah. First of all, he's a fantastic young man. He and his wife just had a little baby. He's a phenomenal player, incredible ball striker, one of the prettiest swings in professional golf. So this is no surprise to me. In fact, it's been more of a surprise that he hasn't won more in his professional career. That doesn't surprise me one bit and I expect him to go out and play well on the weekend. So it's up to other guys to go out there and really turn it on. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT