MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 9, 2010
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Talk about your round. 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, it was very tricky out there. I think the course plays tougher with this northwester than it does with yesterday's breeze, which is pretty much opposite. And it was pretty tricky out there. 
 As far as my game goes, I probably didn't strike the ball as well from green to tee, so I left myself a bit of work on the greens. So I had a couple 3-putts. But all in all I thought I hung in there quite well and am right in there going into the weekend.

 Q. You're 2-under too. That's only four off the place with 36 to play. 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah. Absolutely.

 Q. Do you look forward to this? It's a great way to be, isn't it, just four off the pace with 36 holes to go?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well there's really no point for anybody to have mentioned me. I hardly played golf last year and I only played a few events this year and made cuts and that was about it. So there's no point in anybody mentioning me. 
 But it's been a long hard grind for me to rehab this wrist and get back to the point to where I feel like I can play the way I need to. And this week it's just a step in the right direction for me. 
 I'm in no means, by no means back to where I was, but I feel like I'm edging in that direction.

 Q. I'm sure you're pleased where you are, but are you surprised to be so well placed?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: No. I know this golf course very well. I've obviously had success around here. 

 Q. That's a big factor, isn't it?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Sure. So I know where to put the ball. It's just a matter of whether my mind is going to allow my body to put it there. So it's, it's just one of those things. 
 Like I said, over the last month -- I've only been hitting balls for three months -- so over the last month or so things have started to move in the right direction and I'm just trying to work my way back.

 Q. How is the wrist? Is it still painful?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: No, the wrist is great. I have no pain at all. Just slightly less flexibility than what I would like, but that's something we're working on on a daily basis. But there's no pain. So it should be able to just keep working.

 Q. One thing I wanted to ask you. The course, the pin placements were obviously a lot tougher today. Seem like it's a flatter day. Is it a bit too defensive, do you think, the way it's set up?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: No, this is a Major Championship. I was seriously impressed yesterday. I thought the guys, the course wasn't playing that easy, the wind was blowing 20, 25 miles an hour. I mean golfers have become extremely good nowadays. Yesterday's show was pretty incredible. 
 Today, like I said, the course always plays a little tougher with this breeze, so it will show some more teeth.

 Q. Is there any hole where you can say, okay, this is where I can jump start my round, where I know I can?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: No, not really. Not really. Every shot here is a potential disaster. So you need to be able to keep all that in check. Just a yard makes a big difference around this golf course with every shot. So you just got to try to fit it into the right areas and make some putts.

 Q. Did you see any 66s out here today?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: It will be a great score if somebody does shoot 66, but I don't think so. 

 Q. Did you have to hang in tough early on?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I bogeyed the first and the 8th with two 3-putts, so I was 2-over after nine. 
 And then I birdied 13 and made a few nice up-and-downs later to hang in towards the end. 

 Q. You proud of yourself for the way it's gone?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Absolutely, yeah. I've had to come back from a long hard slug. This time last year I was really struggling. I was not making the golf swing that I wanted to make. By the summer I couldn't hardly hold on to the club. 
 So for me to be back here this week and be in the hunt with two days to go it's been a lot of hard work that's gone into that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT