VERIZON HERITAGE
April 16, 2009
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Did it get tricky in the trees sometimes?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I mean it always does. Obviously it's cold to start in the morning, so you've kind of got to weather that and just try to hang in there. And then once it let's up, you can play slightly more aggressively.   
 But the course is intimidating. It's intimidating on the eye, because it's pretty close to perfect out there. So you have to see your shots and go for them.   
  
  Q. How much of an adjustment do you have to make from when you first tee off to make the turn as it warms up because the ball travels further when it gets warmer?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, it definitely starts going right, about midway through the front nine for me it started going normal distance for me again. But that's one of the things we have to deal with.  
  
  Q. 5-under par, great start. Do you come here thinking you're going to do well?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: You know on the surface it should suit me. But you've got to be mentally sound, because you've got to be able to just stand up and keep swinging free, even though it's very narrow and stuff. So on the surface, yes, it should suit me as long as I'm in the right place mentally.  
  
  Q. Bill Haas said you have to be ready to hit it one or two away from a tree, you don't get that other places?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: No, you definitely don't. We hardly ever get that. And like I said, it's 80 yards and I have to hit like a 7-yard draw. We hardly ever get that. And like I said, the breeze is out of the left, but you get a lot of those kind of shots. And you've got to be willing to try to take it on.  
  
  Q. Feel any different this morning coming out from under The Masters champion?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: It did. It did. You know, it's funny, because obviously it was such a dream to win The Masters. And last year was tough at times because I put so much pressure on myself. But I tell you what, coming up the last few holes Sunday it was emotional, because I knew I wasn't winning again. So like I said bittersweet, but the way I look at it now, I can close the chapter on 2008 and obviously it was a breakthrough year for me, and try to take all that experience and put it to the test from now on.  
  
  Q. How was last week being at Augusta as the defending champion? Was it nerve wracking, thrilling, exciting, enjoyable?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Playing Augusta is always nerve wracking. It's a very demanding golf course. When you play a Major that's what we're living for. It was a great week. I thoroughly enjoyed myself. Obviously the highlight of the week was the Champions' dinner. That was something I can't wait for next year. It really was incredible. And seeing Mr. Player also playing his last Major Championship, it was special to be a part of that.   
 I played fairly solid all week, with a nice round on Sunday. So all in all, I always try to win, but I was pretty happy with -- with everything I had to deal with, I was happy with it.  
  
  Q. Maybe closing the chapter on that, does that kind of relieve some pressure that you could perform as well as you did today and this week?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: It's been coming for a while. I thoroughly enjoyed my time as defending champion and I got to have so many great opportunities. So I definitely don't see it as a negative.   
  
  Q. You put the green jacket on a pretty decent sort of fellow.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Angel? He's an incredible player. The world doesn't know much about him. That's his strategy, and it works for him. But I spoke playing with him when I joined the European Tour back in 2001. He's always been immensely talented. He's the kind of player that if he's in the mood, he can really dominate a golf course and a tournament. He's no slouch, winning two Majors. That's pretty incredible stuff.  
  
  Q. Pretty exciting. What did you say to him when you first saw him Sunday?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: "Well done" and "congratulations." He was really tired. He came right from playing. His head was still spinning. I was proud of him. It was great to see an international player win and it will cause a huge stir down in South America. And that's fantastic.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible question.)  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: It's demanding that way, you have to be able to move your ball around. Which is not so easy nowadays with the new technology. It's always been great to see great ball strikers win this tournament. It's one of those real solid golf courses, that you know what you're going to get. You know there's no tricks to it, you have to suck it up and hit good shots all day.  
  
  Q. How would you describe today? Bittersweet with bogeying the last hole?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: It's a win, especially with this amount of breeze blowing. Winning score is never too far under par. 5-under is a good start.  
  
  Q. Did it surprise you with the wind this morning?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, you always expect wind here.   
  
  Q. You would have liked to have had a better finish, with a bogey on nine, but that's indicative of this golf course, right? You can hit over 300 yards and it can still bite you.  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: (Inaudible) It's a tough way to finish, but I played real well today.   
  
  Q. Last year probably getting ready for your first tournament as The Masters champion, tell me what the difference was last year as opposed to year?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Last year this time I was actually just running around New York City. But that was a bit of a highlight for me. (Inaudible) It's nice to come here this week and spend time with the family.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: I really played well today. I hit a lot of good quality shots and anytime you can shoot something in the 60s on this golf course, it's a tough golf course, so I'm pleased with the first round.  
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, you are always going to get some breeze around here. I think all of us know that coming in. But that's one of the beauties and mysteries of this golf course. You have to guess the wind at the right times. And that's part of the real challenge of this golf course. And it's a beautiful golf course to play in. You have to be thinking your way around, shaping your shots the way you need to shape them. All in all I'm really happy with today's score.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT