ABERDEEN STANDARD INVESTMENTS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 15, 2018
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Good final round.  It's been a great week, and you got off to a great start again today.
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah.  You know, I felt nice and calm.  I had a great warmup, and I've been feeling obviously good about my game, hitting some nice shots out there.  I wasn't quite sure how I would respond once we got out on to the course, but I got a good tee shot away and hit an 8-iron in there to about five feet and made the putt and then birdied No. 2 as well.  So yeah, got off to a great start.  Front nine has really been good to me all week.  And unfortunately, the putter went a little cold on me on the back nine.  I hit a lot of beautiful drives and gave myself a number of chances, but just couldn't quite get any to drop on the back nine to put any pressure on Brandon, but what a round of golf from him.  So proud of him.  You know, he hasn't played his best over the last six months or so, so I'm really happy for him to come out and shoot that incredible round today.
Q. Yeah, a South African win always kind of tempers it for you.  It's been a great week for you.  You look like you've really enjoyed playing here this week as well.  Doing so well on this golf course.  Does that maybe change your plans now for the rest of the year in terms of playing?  You're doing a lot of commentating.  Is that something now that's at the back of your mind?
TREVOR IMMELMAN: That's a great question.  I'm really not sure.  As of right now I'm still scheduled to be doing TV work at the Open.  So we'll see if I get in or not and have to change those plans.  But you know, I'm really not sure.  I'll take a few hours and let this sink in and look at the schedule again and see what the plan is.  But obviously, you know, I've had such a fantastic time and I'm tremendously thankful to the Golf Channel.  It's been a great few years that I've worked with them, and I plan on doing that well into my later years.  So you know, whatever happens happens.  I love playing when I do have the opportunities to come out here.  You know, I've always loved the European Tour.  This is where I cut my teeth 20 years ago.  So I look forward to being back soon.
Q. And finally, how have you enjoyed the whole experience this week?  Fantastic crowds over all four days this week.
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, it's always great.  It's always great coming to the UK and playing golf over here.  The crowds are so respectful, so knowledgeable.  Not that they aren't anywhere else, but I think they understand the intricacies of links golf and how finicky it can be and how tough certain shots can be even though they look quite simple on your screen.  And so you know, that's always fun, and I've enjoyed all the events I've played this year.  At the start of the season obviously the BMW at Wentworth, all these Rolex Series events are just really such a treat for us European Tour players, so it's great to be a part of them.
Q. It's been a great week.  Well played.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT