STANFORD ST. JUDE CHAMPIONSHIP
June 7, 2008
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Trevor, another good solid round. Nothing likes finishing with a bogey, but you're right there.
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, thanks. I played well today. I played great yesterday, which gave me some confidence in my long game, and I had it going again -- hit some great shots and I hit it, you know, okay tee shot down 18. I ended up in yesterday's divot, believe it or not.
 Just in the divot, and I was a little scared of the clubhead turning over to the left and squirted out. I actually played quite well today.

 Q. Have things started to calm down yet since winning at Augusta?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: This year has been crazy time. Lot of things I had to learn to deal with that I wasn't used to. Last couple weeks I've started to feel comfortable. I've been able to put some work in on my game, and I felt it's coming back, some good feelings I've had in the past when I've played well. Now I'm hoping for a good day tomorrow.

 Q. Good to see your name back on the leaderboard.
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Thank you.

 Q. Talk about your round in general.
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I played pretty solid all day. You know, I made two bad mistakes. Bad mistake on the 8th hole, real careless tee shot. I ended up getting a good chip and missed it 3 feet. That was pretty bad.
 Then here on 18 I hit a decent drive down the right side. I ended up in yesterday's divot so it wasn't real ideal. I was kind of guarding against hitting it left, and I hit it out to the right. So bad way to finish there.
 Those are the only two mistakes I made today. All in all, I actually managed my game quite well, and, you know, I got a chance tomorrow. That's all I can ask for.

 Q. Did you chip-in on 14?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah.

 Q. What kind of expectations do you have going into tomorrow?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Good expectations. I know that if I go out there and play my best, I'll have a good chance. That's all I can ask of myself.

 Q. How have you been hitting it since Augusta?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Probably not hitting it as good. My putting has improved a lot since winning at Augusta. My long game has finally come back. Last week I started to hit a few nice shots at the right time. Yesterday I really struck the ball sweetly. Today wasn't quite as good, but still nothing bad. We'll have to hit the ball next week.

 Q. When did you start to turn it around a little bit? After Thursday you didn't have a great start.
 A I had a terrible start. It's tough starting early in the morning on the 10th tee. You got some tough holes right away. The wind is really gusting. I just was hitting some poor shots. The second-9 that day was the front-9 I started playing a little better. Shot even that side.
 I came out the next morning and tried to give myself a few birdie chances and rolled a couple in. Kind of went from there. Yesterday's round gave me a lot of confidence.

 Q. I remember talking to you after one of your rounds at the Nelson. You said you were talking about getting your strength back. Do you feel like you have the strength back after Augusta and all the obligations?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, for sure. The last two weeks I've started to play again. I had to deal with so much stuff I wasn't used to, you know. So it's always going to take some time for me to figure out, you know, how much I can say yes to and allow myself to prepare and practice as much as I need to.
 So, you know, those are things that I've tried to figure out, especially since this has been a good time for me. The last couple of weeks, I'm starting to feel normal again, starting to feel prepared when the tournament kicks off, and I'm hoping I can carry it forward to next week.

 Q. Tim Clark had 64 today. He's been close so many times breaking through.
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: It's amazing to me how he's never won over here before because when we were kids growing up, he used to win everything down in South Africa. He knows how to win. He's won on the European Tour a few times. It's always been kind of fascinating to me he hasn't pulled it through. It's only a matter of time. This is the kind of course that sets up well for him. He's a good ball striker, great hitter. When it gets windy, those are what you need.

 Q. He said his second at Augusta might have inspired you. Is that the case?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Lot of South Africans, Ernie Retief and Rory came close. Timmy came close. I always enjoyed the course. I finished 5th there in 2005. I knew how to get around. It was just a matter of me pulling off the shots.

 Q. What's your thoughts on playing him in these conditions?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, I mean, you always find a way to push a course to its limit. It's interesting to see what they've done this time around at Torrey. I look forward to getting out there. I'm sure the weather is going to be fantastic, and I look forward to it. The U.S. Open is the ultimate challenge. It tests every part of your game. So we're in for a long week. Somebody is going win, you know? 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT