EDS BYRON NELSON CHAMPIONSHIP
April 24, 2008
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Are you feeling let down at all today?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, I mean, I just think I've just run out of gas, you know? Obviously coming here and the course is playing real tough today, it's playing long, windy and it's really tricky out there. Obviously we don't know the greens very well. You know, you've got to play real well to shoot a good score out here today, and I didn't have any of that going. I hit a few three-putts and I hit some bad shots, hit a ball out of bounds. I had nothing going for me. So all in all, it was a pretty bad day out there today.  
  
  Q. Talk about what happened on 15.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, the wind was blowing hard off the left and I was just trying to hit a draw to hold it in the fairway, and I just snap-hooked it, caught the trees, went out of bounds. And then I hit a pretty good next one, but I ended up making a 7 there, which really set me back.   
 But like I said, I just feel like I've just run out of gas. As hard as I was trying to knuckle down, I just couldn't quite get it together.   
  
  Q. Was it a physical and mental exhaustion?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I'd say so. I'm obviously real tired. I've been trying to get as much sleep as I can, as well as obviously running around and doing things like this. You know, I think what I've got to do is figure out a way to balance it all so that I can feel like I get to tournaments feeling fresh and ready to go.  
  
  Q. Are you already getting a lot of requests for like overseas appearances? How are you going to deal with all that? Are you going to learn to say no a little bit?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Absolutely. That's what I was alluding to earlier. I'm definitely going to have to -- I'm going to find out from some guys how they went about it. But yeah, we've got a lot of things coming in right now, and obviously I'm really appreciative and thankful for that. It's flattering for people to want me to come to their events. But I've got to sit down and figure out what's going to work best for me.  
  
  Q. Did you think about saying no to this one?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, you know, I committed to this tournament. Once I had committed to the tournament I wasn't going to withdraw.   
  
  Q. You're going to go three straight, right?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Mm-hmm.  
  
  Q. That's going to be a challenge in and of itself?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Absolutely, because none of them are easy golf courses. I'd better get things together and knuckle down.   
  
  Q. What's your schedule going to be after THE PLAYERS and leading into the Open, U.S. Open?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, I'm not 100 percent certain yet, other than knowing that I'm going to play the U.S. Open. You know, I'm just going to take it week for week, and I might have to make a few adjustments just to make sure that I'll be fresh by the time that tournament rolls around.  
  
  Q. It really does change everything, doesn't it?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, sure. It takes -- you know, I think it takes all the pressure off rather than putting the pressure on, just purely because of all the exemptions and all the things like that. You know, I think that I've just got to find a system that works for me.   
  
  Q. Was the gallery a little bigger for you today than normal for a first round?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Oh, my gosh, hitting 8-over, the gallery was bigger than normal.  
  
  Q. Did you have some encouragement out there?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, sure. People have been great this week. I love the area and I love the tournament, and that's one of the reasons I wanted to come and play. You know, just unfortunately I didn't have it with me today. Hopefully I can go out there and shoot a good round tomorrow.  
  
  Q. Is this course going to be tough if the wind lays down?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I think so, purely because the guys don't know the greens very well, either. You know, the greens, the way they're designed, you have to hit the ball to certain areas, otherwise you're going to be putting over big slopes. Yeah, especially with as wet as it was today, it was playing pretty long. So I think even without the wind, the course would be challenging. But let's be honest, when does the wind not blow in Texas?   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT