MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 11, 2008
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How would you assess your play today?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, obviously it feels great to go out there and break 70 both rounds. You know, my play today probably wasn't as sharp as yesterday, but I really did hole some unbelievable putts out there. You know, so that was really satisfying to see some long ones drop. You know, that always helps the scorecard. 
 I guess I've just got to go out there and try to keep it going on the weekend.

 Q. You spent some time in the practice rounds playing with Gary Player. What was that experience like?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, that experience is all exceptional. You know, I've been fortunate enough to know Mr. Player since I was five years old. He's given me a lot of advice over the years. That was probably my fourth or fifth practice round with him here at this particular course. I've learnt a lot of things from him about the golf course. I guess I've just got to try my best to put it to good use.

 Q. A year ago, 77-81 on the weekend. Was that in your mind at all when you returned?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: No, because I was in hospital all day Wednesday with a severe stomach bug. Making the cut for me was like winning the tournament last year. But I ran out of gas there on the weekend, obviously didn't play great golf. 
 I have a lot of great memories of this golf course. I've watched a lot of Masters tournaments on TV, and it's a thrill to play well here.

 Q. What did you get out of the visit two weeks ago with Ian and Justin? All three of you guys are obviously playing great. What did you get out of it?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: You know, anytime you can come and play here and get a couple extra rounds under your belt, you're learning new things. You know, you just come down with two guys, and we were kind of sharing our expenses with each other, showing each other a few different putts and a few different shots and some different strategies on holes. You know, so I think all three of us got a lot out of it. We learnt that much more about the golf course. That stands you in good stead.

 Q. Can you share one lesson that you used either yesterday or today from that visit? 
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: You know, I think something I've done well the last two days is I've somehow kept my ball under the hole on my approach shots. Whether that be through brilliance or stupidity I'm not sure, but I seemed to have a lot of putts where I felt like I could be somewhat aggressive, and that was definitely a nice feeling.

 Q. As tough as the course has been over the past few years, did you expect to see guys at 8-, 7-under par after round 2?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I don't really know how to answer that question. You know, you just know what's in front of you. You know it's going to be tough, and you just go out there and play. I've never been one to think about a score. When the breeze starts kicking up -- we've been fortunate with the weather, but when that breeze starts kicking up it becomes awfully difficult out here.

 Q. Is there some thought of getting the scores in when you can with some weather and wind possibly coming in Sunday?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: That's the feeling of any major championship. Any birdie you can make you try and hold onto it and bank it for as long as you can because you know at some point the golf course is going to strike back and you've just got to hang in there while you can.

 Q. The 65 in '05 and the two 68s you just got here, how much can you take that into the weekend, knowing you've played this golf course very, very well?
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, sure. It gives me a lot of confidence, but there's a long way to go. You know, I've played this golf course, I feel, enough to know where I need to hit the ball. It's just a matter of me trying to hit it there. You know, just hopefully over the weekend I can hit the right shots at the right times and make the right putts at the right times and see what happens come Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT