MASTERS TOURNAMENT
April 10, 2008
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. How do you feel after the round?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: I feel great. It's a fantastic day out there. We had great weather and obviously it was nice for me to get out there and hit some good shots and make a few putts.  
  
  Q. Any memories from that wonderful 2005 experience you had?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, that was kind of the first time I had ever played well around here and I was definitely drawing on that today. So any time you can go out there at Augusta National and shoot a good round it makes you feel a little bit better.  
  
  Q. Any difference in this course from last time to this time?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Fairly similar. Because both times the course was a little bit wet from some rain that had come, and so the course played fairly similar. It was just perfect conditions for golf out there today.   
  
  Q. I was surprised to see that you had only had one round under par here out of 16. What worked for you today?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, like I said, I hit some real solid shots. I never got myself into any great danger. And I managed to make the putts to keep the momentum going.   
 So it was just kind of low stress, really, and I did nothing too crazy to get me too upset. And I managed to hole a few birdie putts to keep the round going. Which was nice.  
  
  Q. Have you been able to pick up some useful tidbits from Gary Player?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Absolutely. I've been fortunate enough to spend a bit of time with a few guys that have played around here like Ben Crenshaw is another, as well as Gary Player.   
 So there's so much to learn about this golf course, I don't think you ever are done learning about it. But to try and play some practice rounds with some past champions really does help.  
  
  Q. How does around like this give you confidence for the rest of the weekend?  
 TREVOR IMMELMAN: Well, I don't think that you can get too far ahead of yourself. I think today was a great round. And I thoroughly enjoyed it and I got to just kind of put that in the back of my mind and just play one shot for shot the rest of the week.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT