OMEGA MISSION HILLS WORLD CUP
November 22, 2007
Retief Goosen
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   JOE CHEMYCZ:  We welcome Trevor Immelman and Retief Goosen with a 9-under par 63.  Maybe just talk about your round first, Retief, and then Trevor, just how you played and what the rest of the week looks like.  And then we'll open it up for questions.   
 RETIEF GOOSEN:  Yeah, Trevor played extremely well today.  I was chopping trees out there a little bit on a few of the holes.  But I think I helped him with about two holes to go so it wasn't too great for me out there.  But at the end of the day, we've got to make a score, and we did.   
 We're up there tied for the lead, which is great.  Obviously the foursomes is going to be more the prettier side of the game this week.  We'll go and hit some balls this afternoon and try and sort it out, and I'm sure that tomorrow we'll do well out there.  And main thing is just stay in contention, give yourself a chance when Sunday comes around.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, I don't think I can disagree with too much that was just said.  But you know, I think it's perfect for us to be in the position that we're in.  Obviously we're still right in the hunt here, right in the mix, which is what we want.   
 There's a long way to go, and you know, the key is to have a chance come Sunday afternoon.  So we just keep playing well, hopefully that happens, and we can sneak through.   
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  For the record Trevor had five birdies and an eagle, and Retief had three birdies today.   
  
  Q.  Could one of you capture the difference for me tomorrow when it's foursomes rather than fourballs?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, obviously you know, I think the men are going to get separated from the boys, if you will.  You're really going to have to go out there and play some solid golf.   
 You know, this is the type of golf course where you really need to keep your ball in play.  You know, it seems like you're either in the fairway or you're in a bunker or you've lost your ball.   
 So obviously the latter is what we're trying to steer away from, and you know, the key is just to go out there and give yourself as many putts at birdie as possible.   
 I think if you go out there and break par, you're going to keep yourself right in it.   
 JOE CHEMYCZ:  Thank you.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT