PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2007
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  What can these guys expect coming in?   

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, I mean, you know the course, it's just -- you've just got to hit -- you've got to be precise on your shots.  And so, you know, you've just got to hit the fairway because once you hit the fairway, you can try and make a few birdies.   

 Obviously Tiger is way ahead, but, you know, once you hit the fairway, it makes it a lot easier.  So that tee shot is the most important.   
  
  Q.  So you have the PGA TOUR Playoffs and the FedExCup and the Presidents Cup coming up; looking forward to that?   

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I can't wait.  Like I said, I haven't really been myself and haven't really played well and it's been a long, hard struggle to get it back to where I know I can get it to.  Last week on the weekend, I started feeling something that felt good, and lucky enough, I was able to bring it here.   
  
  Q.  Just what playing in the Presidents Cup mean to you?   

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, it's a great thrill, you know, for us to go out and represent -- I know we're not representing our country.  But when you're sitting at the opening ceremony and they play your anthem there, it's a proud moment.  It's something that all sportsmen dream about growing up is representing your country and as golfers we don't get to do it that often.  So any time you get that chance, it's really awesome.   
  
  Q.  The members of the team that already have secured their spots, what do you think of the strength of the International Team?   

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  This has got to be the toughest team in the world to make.  You've pretty much got to be in the Top 20 in the World Rankings.  Obviously on paper, I think we have a hell of a strong team, but we've had a terrible record in that tournament.  So, you know, hopefully our big guns can be ready for it, and come and lead the way for us.   
  
  Q.  Have you played the course?   

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  No, never been.  I played the Canadian Open a couple of times, never been to Montreal.  I've always had good weeks playing in Canada, so I look forward to going there.   
  
  Q.  Should this course get another major down the road?   

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I don't see why not.  They have already had seven or eight, I believe.  You know, it's a true test of golf.  You've got to really place your ball in the right spot and hit the correct shots.  And you know, obviously certain spots the greens can be quite treacherous.  So, you know, I see no doubt why they won't get a U.S. Open or PGA again.   
  
  Q.  Going into this round, you were ninth in the Presidents Cup, but did you feel any pressure at all?  Did you think anybody could overtake you?   

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Obviously with Stephen Ames playing well and John Senden playing well, if those guys win or finish second, they are going to probably jump me.   

 But you know, other than that, I felt fairly save.  I didn't feel like I could really fall to 11th.  I thought I might go down one spot.  But you know, you never know, and that's why I was just coming out here just trying to play, you know, a good week for myself.  You know, other than that fifth place in the Masters and a couple Top 20s, I've never really done too much in the majors.  So it's nice for me to come here and have a good week.   
  
  Q.  How much confidence does this give you going in the Playoffs?   

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  It gives me a lot of confidence.  Like I said the last three or four months, I've really played some pretty poor golf.  You know, it was upsetting me because I put a lot of work into it and I couldn't quite find it.  You know, like I said, the last couple of weeks, things have felt like they started to turn around and it was nice to come here and put a good result on the board.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT