PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2007
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








 Q.  My first question is how are you feeling? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, you know, I'm excited, because this week is the first week in a few months that I really feel like I've played a lot better.  I played a little more like I expect to play.  And, you know, it was just a great week.  I came here, enjoyed the week, I love the golf course, and it was nice to have a good week. 

 Q.  What is it that these guys can expect coming in? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, the course, you just gotta be precise on your shots.  And so you just gotta hit the fairway.  Because once you've hit the fairway, you can try and make a few birdies.  Obviously Tiger's way ahead.  But once you hit the fairway it makes it a lot easier for you. 

 So that tee shot is the thing that's the most important. 

 Q.  You have PGA Tour and the playoffs, FedExCup and Presidents Cup, are you looking forward to that? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I can't wait.  After I got here, I haven't really been myself.  I haven't played very well.  And it's been a long, hard struggle for me to try and get it back to where I'm at.  And last week on the weekend I started feeling something that felt good.  I was able to bring it here, have a good week.  I'm really excited. 

 Q.  Presidents Cup, what does playing the Presidents Cup actually mean? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  It's great for us.  I know we're not out representing our country, but when you're sitting at the ceremony, it's a proud moment.  And it's something that all sportsmen dream about growing up is representing your country.  As golfers we don't get too it that often.  Any time you get that chance, it's really awesome. 

 Q.  The members of the team that already have secured their spots, what do you think of the strength of the International team? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  This has got to be the toughest team in the world to make you have to be in the Top 20 in the ranking to get a nod here.  So obviously on paper I think we have a hell of a strong team.  But we've had a terrible record in that tournament.  So hopefully our big guns can be ready for it and come and lead the way for us. 

 Q.  Have you played the course? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  No, I've never been -- I've played -- never been to Montreal. 

 Q.  Should this course get another major down the road? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  This one right here?  I don't see why not.  They already had seven or eight, I believe.  And it's a true test of golf.  You've got to really place your ball in the right spot and hit the correct shots.  And obviously certainly spots of the green can be quite treacherous.  So I don't see why they can't get a U.S. Open or PGA again. 

 Q.  Going into this round, you were 9th.  Did you feel any pressure at all or did you think anybody could overtake you? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Obviously with Stephen playing well and John Senden playing well, if those guys win and I finished 2nd, they could have probably jumped me.  But other than that I felt fairly safe.  I didn't feel like I could fall to 11th.  I thought I might go down one spot. 

 But you never know, and that's why I was just coming out here just trying to play a good week for myself and place in the Masters and couple Top 20s.  I've never done too much in the majors.  It's nice for me to come here and have a good week. 

 Q.  How much confidence does it give you going into the playoffs? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Gives me a lot of confidence.  Like I said, the last three, four months I played some pretty poor golf.  It was upsetting.  I'm putting a lot of work into it.  I couldn't quite find it.  Like I said, in the last couple of weeks things have felt like it's starting to turn around.  So it was nice to come here and put good results on the ball. 

 Q.  What did you do over the weekend, I noticed more in ball-striking, picked up, but putting wasn't there? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I felt like I was slapping the ball well all week.  First round I had 34 putts, shot 5-over.  I knew what the problem was there.  The second round I had 32 putts and shot even.  So there I could have probably if I had made a few more putts shot a good score and got myself a little closer. 

 And yesterday going out early, you know, the greens were nice and receptive and actually had 30 putts to shoot 66.  So I felt like I left a few shots on the greens.  And I'm not sure how many I had today.  But I really just have to get rid of the 3-putts and hold a few more from inside the 10-foot range.  That's what got me closer on the weekend. 

 Q.  You mentioned being sick.  Have you had to work on that ball-striking much? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I'm not going to lie to you.  Absolutely.  I lost so much weight.  I think my swing changed.  Definitely lost power.  Didn't feel like I was hitting as far as I was in the last month or so, starting to get it back to where I was.  But I feel like I lost my confidence a little bit and I wasn't swinging it the same way. 

 So it's been a lot of work for me to try and get the same feelings back.  But it's been nice for the last few weeks to start to get those same feelings again. 

 Q.  Anything in your preshot routine that you changed or is that something that keeps you consistent? 

 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, I try and make it as consistent as I can with the routine.  I think it's very important.  But at the end of the day you just have to find your target and transferring through. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT