PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 11, 2007
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
  Q.  This course gettable today?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I think if you play at 8:00 in the morning it is, because you know what they were doing?  What I noticed is that they were pretty much syringing the greens right up until the first group got up there, and I was the second group.  I was able to fire at the flags.  Obviously it's extremely hot out there, they're protecting against losing the greens.   
 Lucky for me the greens are soft so I could shoot at it and roll a few putts in.   
  
  Q.  How big a difference do you think it's going to make for the guys teeing off later this afternoon as compared to you, getting finished now and already you're sweating like you want to go get into the air conditioning as fast as possible?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  It's seriously hot and last couple of days there hasn't been much of a breeze to kind of ease the tension here.  But I would say it's about a three-shot difference the way the greens are going to firm up.  Obviously they're nice and smooth when you first start in the morning.   
 So I had the best -- hopefully they'll let me play again that time tomorrow.   
  
  Q.  No matter what happens in this tournament, how do you think -- given the heat conditions, how do you think Tiger's round yesterday is going to be judged over the years?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  It was inspiring, I would say, the way I would sum it up.  Obviously he's been in some incredible form.  And to do it right after you've had a child, too, is something quite special.  Because you know there's no doubt that once the first kid comes along, that's a really important time in your life.   
 And he would be able to be excused to have, you know, maybe let his focus wander a little bit.  But for him to come out and play like he has in the last two weeks is incredible.  And I guess it just proves to us again what a champion he is.   
  
  Q.  I don't know if you saw any kind of highlights.  I know you were probably busy playing and everything.  He chipped in.  He had long putts.  He hit it stiff.  Hit controlled irons.  Everything -- he delivered everything in his bag yesterday.  First of all, is that what you have to do out in this course anyway, hit all the shots or be prepared to hit all the shots, and is that an example of no matter what situation he faces, he's going to --   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  What he did yesterday is pretty much what he's been doing since 1997.  So, you know, it's something we've come to expect of him.  And you know that if you're going to go up against him you gotta bring your best stuff and just kind of hang on to him and maybe you can squeak through at the end.  But, you know, that's what you expect from him.  You expect him to do those sort of things.   
 And so I wasn't surprised.  I was inspired.   
  
  Q.  If you have a good day tomorrow, is that going to set you up -- are you slowly peaking towards the stretch where you have to play a lot -- do you feel good about what you're doing?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I had a nice start to the year and tailed off the last couple of months, played some awful golf.  But the last couple of weeks I felt my game come around.  For our level it's all about confidence.  When you have confidence in your game, you can go out there and play the golf course the way it's supposed to be played and shoot some good scores.   
 So I've been feeling that come around, and to answer your question, I am looking forward to the playoffs and hopefully the Presidents Cup.   
  
  Q.  Able to be more aggressive today, is there a big difference?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, no doubt about it.  The greens were -- you could attack the flags playing at 8:00 this morning.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT