COMMERCIAL BANK QATAR MASTERS
January 27, 2016
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Happy with today's round, shooting 68 for 4-under?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, pretty happy.  Obviously haven't played as well as I would want for quite some time, in fact.  But I played 14 really solid holes today, and then on the four where I was struggling, I managed to grind away and make some pars.  No bogeys around this challenging course, I'm really happy with it.   
 Q.  Presumably that means that while it is only the one round that the game is moving in nice direction at present?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I've been feeling that for a little while but the results haven't kind of added up just yet.  It sure was nice to got out there and hit some good shots and have some nice looks at birdie.  So hopefully I can keep things going a little bit.   
 Q.  So are you feeling that much more comfortable, that much more healthy?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, I mean, I've been healthy for awhile.  Like I said, there's no excuses.  Form's been bad.  Been working my butt off to try and improve all of that.  You know, I'm thankful to have these opportunities to come play these events and see what we can do.   
 Q.  I take it the ambition is still burning bright.  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Absolutely.  You know, I'm fortunate enough to where I had a pretty solid career and did well for myself, and you know, I'm here because I want to play well, no other reason than that.   
 Q.  I take it it's hard sometimes to claw your way back in, because you've got to put in so much effort.  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, it really is hard.  You know, for me, it was just a matter of trying to strip away some of the bad stuff that I was working on and just kind of go back to some basics for me and my game.   
You know, slowly by surely, I've started to change those habits and hit some quality shots in practise and you know, the final hurdle is for me to try to take it to a tournament and keep that trust level up.   
 Q.  Do you think it's close?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: I do.  You know, close to what style of golf, I'm not quite sure, but I feel like I've been moving in the right direction.  So just keep plodding away and like I said, hopefully I can find some form.  I just want to get the feeling of having a chance to play well and contend again.  That's why I've continued to put the work in.  I miss that.   
 Q.  From our perspective, it's tremendous to see you back here.  So are you thinking more of playing some more European Tour events across the course of this year?  
TREVOR IMMELMAN: Yeah, absolutely.  I've obviously enjoyed -- this is my fourth week in a row, which I haven't done in a while, too, and playing next week, too.  So this has been a great stretch for me.  It was great to go back home and play in South Africa, as well.   
So yeah, I've got a nice schedule leading up to Augusta and hopefully like I said, I can start playing some decent golf and from there on I'll take stock and see.  But there sure are -- I've obviously taken up my membership on The European Tour this year.  There's a lot of great events that I'd love to come back and play.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT