WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 25, 2007
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  Was it a weird day out there to be motivated when you've lost in match play and you still have to play again?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, it feels pretty bizarre, really, because you feel like you've lost and you're putting everything into trying to win the tournament, and then you find out you've got to come back and play in a match for third place, which is the oddest thing I've ever heard of.   
 But, you know, it was a lot of extra World Ranking points up for grabs and FedExCup points and stuff like that, so I had to try and get my mind around it and try and come out here with a positive frame of mind.   
  
  Q.  Having said that, did it take a while to get into a groove out there, or did you start out competitive from the getgo?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Once I got here this morning I was prepared for it and I was looking forward to the challenge.  You know, I was also hoping to try and play the same as I played yesterday, because I thought yesterday was a real step up for me in regards to my play this year.   
 So I was hoping to see if I could have the same consistency, and I was pleased to say that I did.   
  
  Q.  You told me Saturday morning you would tell me after this was done what you found to make you play so well.  You went 5 and 1 this week.  You didn't go 6 and 0.  So what was it?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, I said if I won all six matches I would let you know (laughing), but it was just something with my left arm, just trying to keep my left arm a little more connected through impact and into my follow-through.   
 You know, it's something that Lead and I have worked on before, and I just tried it yesterday morning and started hitting a few shots right up the middle and had the guts to take it to the course, and it's been feeling really good.  So that one will probably be in my head come Tampa.   
  
  Q.  You have such a beautiful swing and great tempo.  When you're out there and you're competing, how much of winning is feel and not just the mechanics of the game but actually being out there and feeling your way around?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I mean, that's a great question.  All players are different.  But I think even technical players have feelings that they go back to when they play well.  You know, I've probably got four or five swing thoughts that I've had over the last three years that I felt like I've played my best golf.   
 If one doesn't work then I'll try the other one and I'll kind of move around, but it doesn't get too far away from those four or five swing thoughts.   
 Other than that, I just try and feel it in my practice swing, and once I got over the shot I'm really just trying to see my ball flight and picture my ball flight and let my body react to that.   
  
  Q.  As we leave the West Coast and head to the Florida Swing, what are your thoughts as we head toward the middle portion of the year?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, I'm excited to find some form, that's for sure.  I played well at Mercedes and then I've been pretty awful since then.  You know, I wasn't enjoying finishing 40th and 50th every week, so I was hoping to find some form.   
 I was glad to come here and start playing a little better.  You know, I'm really excited now.  I get to go home and spend some time with the family and sharpen things up a little bit and hopefully come back with the same type of game for the Florida Swing.   
  
  Q.  The last little burst around the turn seemed to be the key to that round out there today.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, absolutely.  I birdied the first and then went a little bit quiet.  I expected a real challenge today.  Chad is such a solid player.  We play a pretty similar game actually.   
 Yeah, then I made birdie -- two birdies in a row and then a par and then an eagle and then another birdie and then another birdie.  Then I managed to get my nose ahead there, and we both made bogeys to halve that one half.  That was a little bit ugly.   
 But, you know, then I managed to just steady it and win the match.   
  
  Q.  Like you say, it was difficult to get up for sort of the third-fourth place match, but it was important in terms of World Ranking points and money and all that sort of stuff.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Absolutely.  For me the World Ranking points is my main objective.  My goals are set around that.   
 You know, I'm one of those with the massive task of trying to chase down Tiger, so every extra point that I can get is good for me.   
  
  Q.  One step closer to the Top 10, maybe move up a notch, up to 12th?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I might be a spot or two closer.  You know, obviously the guys ahead of me are playing the final, so they're going to be moving right in there.  But I'm excited with the way I've played the last couple days.  Hopefully I can keep that form.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT