WGC ACCENTURE MATCH PLAY CHAMPIONSHIP
February 22, 2007
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q.  3 and 1 over Chris DiMarco.  Talk me through the match.   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, first of all, I knew I was going to have to play a pretty solid round of golf.  We all know how tough Chris is, especially in match play.  You know, he got off to a little bit of a shaky start there.  I managed to get 2-up early, then he started finding his game and holing the key putts.   
 I really felt like I hit the ball really well and I was in control of the match.  I think if I had rolled a few more putts in I might have been able to keep myself ahead.   
 But, you know, he really pulled it back with a few nice birdies and an eagle on the 10th hole.  So it was a pretty close game.   
  
  Q.  Would you agree that even though the result was more dominating yesterday than today, you played better today?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Oh, there's no doubt about it.  Yesterday, you know, Thomas didn't have his best day, and I just made -- played pretty solid and I won a few holes with pars, whereas today we were alternating birdies and Chris threw in an eagle back there.   
 You know, I felt like today was the best I've struck the ball all season.  I missed a lot of putts from the ten-foot range, so that's something I'd like to go and work on this afternoon, because I think if I can get the ball like that and roll a few more in I like my chances.   
  
  Q.  Speaking of your chances, round three you're playing Englishman Ian Poulter.  Do you have any thoughts about playing him versus anybody else?   
 TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, I mean, it doesn't matter what I think, really.  You know, it's going to be happening tomorrow on the first tee.  I like Ian; he's a great guy.  We live down at Lake Nona together.  I've known him a long time and he's a great player.   
 You know, he's kind of similar mentality to Chris DiMarco.  He's a real tough, fiery competitor, so I'm expecting him to go out there and really be pumped up.  I'm going to need another day like today.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT