CANADIAN OPEN
September 9, 2006
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR:  Trevor, thank you for joining us here after your 3rd round, 66 at the Canadian Open.  Threw yourself into the mix for tomorrow.  It's anybody's ballgame, but you probably only have to leap frog one player going into tomorrow.

Comments?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah was that eagle on 17 really helped my cause.  I was struggling on the Back 9, especially with the putting.  Pretty much all day just wasn't really striking the putts solidly, wasn't judging the speed properly.  That eagle on 17 really helped my cause quite a bit.

THE MODERATOR:  Okay.  We'll take some questions.
Q.  Give us the blow by blow on the eagle.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, I decided that    it was a little downwind.  Probably hit my best drive of the day.  I had about 230 yards to the hole, and on a    on a normal day I probably would have hit a 3 iron, but it's    that kind of ball wasn't traveling fast through the air once the temperature dropped.

Thought I would just go ahead and try and cut a 5 wood in there.  As I hit it, I knew that I had struck it sweetly.  Obviously really happy to see it settle in there around four or five feet.  Managed to dribble that one in.
Q.  It's really tightly bunched leaderboard.  What's it going to take tomorrow?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, that's a really good question.  You know, I'm not very good at guessing those kinds of scores.  But as you say, when it's tightly bunched and the weather is going to be nice, and obviously the course is receptive from the weather we've had this week, somebody's going to come out and shoot 5 or 6 under.

To if we have to anticipate the lead was 11 under, I'm thinking 16 or 17 is probably going to have a good chance.
Q.  Could you talk about the changing weather conditions.  How the course played differently three straight days in a row.  And were there any other shots like on 17 that you had to make a big adjustment in the club because of temperature and moisture?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah.  Reminded me of playing in Europe today.  Same conditions:  Really cool and overcast skies.  Makes it tough to judge the distances.  As well as the breeze being in the total opposite direction from yesterday.

So there was adjustments all the way around.  From choosing 5 wood instead of 3 wood.  You know, adjustments all the way around.  We got to (inaudible) Par 4, maybe 5 or 6.  Driver was almost too much club.  I pulled it and it was past the flag.  So there was adjustments all the way around.

The beauty of this golf course is that if you just    misjudging you're going to have a tough day, especially with the pitch on the greens.  You know, that made it quite tricky.  So, you know, you really need to be judging your shots well today.
Q.  Trevor, you mentioned that you felt you were struggling a bit on the backside.  What does that say about the state of your game when you feel like you're struggling but you shot a 66 and you're one shot off the lead?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah.  You know, I'm probably over reacting a little bit.  It's nowhere near    you know, I'm not saying that it was bad, I'm just saying that my strike on my putting wasn't exactly what I was looking for.

You know, on 11 I missed a 5 footer for par.

On 14, I 3 putted from about 25 feet.

15, I left a 30 footer 5 feet short.

16, I did the same again.

18, I had about a 15 footer and left it short again.

So that's probably all I was saying.  I was just really struggling with my speed on the greens today.

So I'm really excited, as you say, shooting a 66 two days in a row.  I absolutely love the golf course.  I've been a huge fan of it ever sense I got here.  I thoroughly enjoy playing this golf course.  I'm looking forward to tomorrow.

THE MODERATOR:  Anything else?  Okay.  Trevor, thank you.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Thanks, guys.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT