BMW CHAMPIONSHIP
May 25, 2006
Trevor Immelman
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I played really, really well.  Drove the ball straight and hit my irons nicely.  Played a solid round until the mistake on the last.  It's a hole you're trying to make 4 on.  I felt like I hit a pretty good tee shot.  Saw the ball bounce for the first time today in the fairway and went under the lip in the trap, so I started struggling from there.  I made a 6.  So really turned a 68 into a 70.  But, you know, nonetheless, great round, and three days to go.
Q.  That's good that you say great round because it's the kind of thing that does upset your whole mood, doesn't it?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Well, I have to think about the first 17 holes, I really, really played solid, I didn't make any mistakes, no bogeys at all and I never really was in jeopardy of making a bogey until that mishap on the last.  It's one of those things really.
Q.  We've spoken before that this is a course you really do enjoy, isn't it?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I love the course.  I love everything about playing down here at Wentworth.  You know, I think Ernie's done an incredible job with the golf course.  I think he's really improved the course.

It's a great test of golf at the moment.  And you know, that's why you can still be pleased with a 70.  I think a year ago if you shot 70, you'd need another one of those just to make the cut.  Hats off to him for the great job he's done.
Q.  Have you stood on the tee and thought, "Ernie, that's brilliant?"
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  Yeah, I've been saying it all week, I think he's made a good golf course great.  I'm really, really proud of him.
Q.  Give us a highlight that he's done.
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I think he's improved every hole to be honest with you.  I really do.  He's shown some great imagination and, you know, I wouldn't change anything he's done.
Q.  Your imagination, your form has been particularly good in recent weeks, hasn't it?
TREVOR IMMELMAN:  I've been playing well.  I've been playing well all year and just kind of started scoring better in the last six weeks or so, so it's been fun.  I've really enjoyed having some good runs there in the States and I'm looking forward to playing well here.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT