UNIVERSITY OF KENTUCKY BASKETBALL MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 4, 2012
John Calipari
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions for Coach Cal. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH CALIPARI:   Well, we're going to condition in the morning for the next three weeks and then practice because I can't think of any other reason why you wouldn't come out in the second half and play.   I just don't understand that.   Especially what we've been going through. 
You need to learn how to play a full game.   They had that opportunity today.   So we have to chalk it up to they're not in shape. 
They will be.   We're going to be the most in‑shape team inside the next three weeks.   We're going to condition in the morning, we're going to practice in the afternoon. 
Don't understand it. 

Q.   Much or anything about tonight you liked?
COACH CALIPARI:   First half.   I thought, okay, let's go do this the second half.   There were three or four plays we talked about, then the second half.   We win by 1. 
Obviously they don't get it yet, but they will.   They're not going to have a whole lot of choices here, so... 

Q.   Kyle still not necessarily shooting it great. 
COACH CALIPARI:   Must not be in shape.   Didn't go on pick‑and‑rolls, didn't go get balls.   Must not be in shape. 

Q.   When you talk about running in the mornings, can you elaborate on what that means?   Suicides?
COACH CALIPARI:   Whatever it is.   We'll get Ray Oliver.   20 to 30 minutes of straight running.   Heart rates will be high.   Not heart rates at 120.   Your heart rate is going to be at 175, 180. 

Q.   You seem puzzled.   Are you also angry?
COACH CALIPARI:   No.   This is matter of factly me.   If I was mad, you'd know I was mad.   I'm fine.   This is what they need.   I'm not mad.   They're going to get in shape.   I don't know why else they wouldn't play when we've lost our last two games because we didn't compete. 
So you come out for 20 minutes and you compete, then you come out the second half and you don't.   Then you're not in shape or you don't care.   I don't want to even go that way.   I don't even want to hint that way.   So they're not in shape then.   But they will be.   Ask Josh Harrellson.   Changed his life.

Q.   Does your team play with enough emotion?
COACH CALIPARI:   I don't know, but they will because they're going to be in better shape and have a lot more energy to be a little more emotional. 

Q.   Can you talk about your point guard play tonight. 
COACH CALIPARI:   It was okay.   But, again, Ryan got cool because he's not in shape.   Decision making by Archie, why?   Because he's not in good enough shape right now.   Mind goes.   It's called slippage.   Jarrod was shaky at best I think because he's not in great condition.   Last year he and Kyle were in the gym as much as Michael and Anthony Davis.   They have not been in the gym one night this year.   I don't know why. 
I know this, we're going to be there in the mornings and we're going to get in shape. 

Q.   This is the first time all season you've mentioned conditioning.   Had you seen things earlier?
COACH CALIPARI:   I just thought it was physical play.   But I can't imagine what else it would be if you didn't play the second half.   I just can't.   I don't understand.   There's nothing you can tell me other than you're not in shape.   That's okay.   That's an easy one. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH CALIPARI:   We'll see.   Some of it may be mentally you're not strong enough, you're soft.   So the conditioning is good.   It makes you stronger mentally. 

Q.   Times you couldn't get things going, set up a few extra plays.   Are you looking to set a few more things up?
COACH CALIPARI:   No, that's the same stuff we ran against Baylor, Notre Dame.   We just had no competitive spirit in those two games, no will. 
The way we played in the first half, we took these guys out.   We played, blocked shots, took charges, played, like played basketball, competed against the other guy. 
In the second half we played like we did against Notre Dame and Baylor, which was, If they beat you, they beat you.   I didn't get there. 
Can't be anything other than that they're not in shape. 

Q.   How much of this, if any, may be young kids thinking, I can turn it on when I need it?
COACH CALIPARI:   They're not in shape (laughter). 

Q.   How early in the morning are you talking about?
COACH CALIPARI:   Before class, 7:00 in the morning.   I'm going to try to go three weeks with it.   We only practice two hours.   We don't do the three‑and‑a‑half‑hour practice.   You have other programs that will go 3 hours 45 minutes individual work, then three hours of practice.   We're going two hours, 2 hours and 15 minutes trying to get them to do individual work, trying to get them to fall in love with the gym. 
We're sliding into Camp Cal time.   No classes, no timeframe, no four hours, 20 hours a week, none of that.   It's like three practices a day.   Do nice conditioning in the morning.   Do practice in the afternoon.   Come back in the evening and walk through and do some shooting and other things. 
So we got three weeks of that. 

Q.   How big a surprise is it they haven't been guys in the gym, especially now that you've lost three games?
COACH CALIPARI:   They're starting now.   But it's not surprising. 
I think we all got intoxicated, including me, about everything that was written and said about this team.   I kept telling you, We're not that good.   I'm looking, Maybe I'm wrong.   Maybe we're better than I think.   Huh‑uh. 
I like my team.   I like my players.   I got good guys.   They're going to do what I ask them to do. 
If you demand a lot, you get a lot.   If you accept mediocrity...   Obviously, I'm accepting something less than their best, and that's on me. 

Q.   Willie Cauley‑Stein had a very busy line, most of it in the second half.   How much was he an exception to all this?
COACH CALIPARI:   He's 0‑3 at half, 0‑2 at the free‑throw line, and like two rebounds, missed two‑footers. 
First half, our bench was 1‑9.   The bench.   Should I have played him at all?   0‑3 from the three, 2‑5 from the line.   Is there a stat sheet here?   No, it's embedded in my mind.   Second half he played better. 
But, I mean, we got to play basketball, folks.   Every game we play is someone's Super Bowl.   They're celebrating after wins.   We got to be better than we are right now.   We got to be in better shape.   We got to be mentally tougher.   We got to play for each other more.   We got to find time to be in the gym.   We got to condition more.   We just got to step on the gas. 
It's good we found it out now.   That's why you play this kind of schedule early.   You find out exactly where your team is.   You make adjustments and go from there. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH CALIPARI:   Every team I coach is different.   There's different things.   This team right now, this is what we need. 
Now, they play a full game, like both halves, yeah, maybe we won't condition.   I don't think they can.   I don't.   I think they can come out, play a half or start the game.   We got a couple guys literally that can play three minutes at a time right now. 

Q.   You said you like the way your team played in the first half.   What did you like about them?
COACH CALIPARI:   Well, I like what they did defensively.   I liked their effort.   I liked how they talked to one another.   Second half, we didn't talk.   No talking.   We were back into what we were the last two games. 
Again, I told them I'm holding them accountable.   I'm doing it in practice right now.   If they break down, we run.   Just trying to hold them accountable. 

Q.   What did you see in their eyes when you told them this was coming? 
COACH CALIPARI:   I didn't see anything.   I just looked and said that's what we're doing.   Strap 'em on, boys. 

Q.   Samford's coach was trying to motivate his team by saying this was the worst Kentucky team he's ever seen.   Do you have a comment on that?
COACH CALIPARI:   Ooh.   I haven't seen all the Kentucky teams, but I can't imagine there weren't a few that were worse than us. 

Q.   (No microphone.)
COACH CALIPARI:   I don't have one.   I know that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT