NBA DRAFT
June 26, 2008
Jerryd Bayless
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  (No. 11 Overall Selection, Indiana Pacers)  
  
  Q. If you could start with an opening statement about being picked by Indiana.   
 JERRYD BAYLESS: I'm really excited about the opportunity. I didn't really I was going to end up playing for them but I'm excited for it and now I'm in the league, so I can't really complain too much.   
  
  Q. You went through a lot of adversity; how do you think that will help you with challenges in the NBA?   
 JERRYD BAYLESS: I think there's a lot that a NBA player has to go through and I know this year, what could happen and I know it's going to happen sometime in my NBA career. I think I'll just be able to look forward to it and get over it pretty quick.   
  
  Q. With Tinsley and now T.J. Ford on the team, what are you going to do to establish yourself as the No. 1 guy?  
 JERRYD BAYLESS: I think that you have to go out there and play hard. Coach obviously drafted me for a reason, and hopefully sees something that he likes, and he'll figure that out.   
  
  Q. A lot of people were talking about you maybe going second or third in the draft. What is it like sitting there waiting, and do you feel like you have something to prove now?   
 JERRYD BAYLESS: Definitely. I know I have something to prove. Obviously there are some better prospects and it's understandable and hopefully work as hard as I can and play well against the rest of those teams.   
  
  Q. How much do you know about Indianapolis as a city?   
 JERRYD BAYLESS: I don't know, I've never been there.   
  
  Q. You said you never worked out for Indiana, so they must have thought they didn't have a shot at you; what do you think impressed you about their game?  
 JERRYD BAYLESS: I don't know, maybe they just watched me on film and hopefully they liked a couple things that they saw and look forward to meeting them tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You're one of many Pac-10 players in this draft. Tell me about the strength of the league, and you've played against a lot of these guys already.   
 JERRYD BAYLESS: The strength of the league is ridiculous and I think it's the best conference in the country this year. It just shows a lot of people are going into the league right now.   
  
  Q. You got picked by a Larry Bird, he saw something in your game that he wanted to bring to his team; how does that make you feel?  
 JERRYD BAYLESS: Definitely flattering. Everybody wants to be named with those great players such as Larry Bird, and being selected by him is definitely something I should be excited about, so looking forward to meeting him tomorrow.  
  
  Q. You've been complimentary to other guards; do you feel that you were victim of supply and demand, that it was just not the best year to be a great guard in the Pac-10?  
 JERRYD BAYLESS: You know, I don't really know what it was, so I'm just going to look past it to the great opportunity at hand and start working hard for the Indiana Pacers.  
  
  Q. How would you stand to maybe somebody who was worried about you not being able to fill either of the two guard positions?   
 JERRYD BAYLESS: I think they are crazy, that's what I think. (Laughter) I don't know. I think they are crazy.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT