NCAA WRESTLING CHAMPIONSHIP
March 22, 2019
Daton Fix
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








135 pounds
THE MODERATOR: Talk a little bit about your match and advancing to the national championship match.
DATON FIX: It's something I've thought about for a long time.  I mean, I've been coming here for as long as I can remember, since I was eight, nine years old, and every time I'm sitting there for the final session, and just picturing myself up there on the stage winning a national title.
You know, I'm going to get that opportunity tomorrow night, and I'm going to make the most of it.
Q. Let's take you back when you wrestled Suriano during the regular season.  What are your memories of that match, the way it ended?  Are you afraid tomorrow night's match may end up the same?
DATON FIX: No, I'm not afraid of it, of it coming down to me and him.  I'm going out there looking to score.  That's what I did in the previous match, as well.  He's a competitor, and points aren't going to come easy.  So that means I have to work harder, and I'm prepared to do that.  This is what I've been working all year for, is to go win a national title.
Q. Daton, you talked about how you've been coming here for 12 years.  How do you not get caught up in the surrealness of wrestling in the finals of a tournament that you've been dreaming about since you were a little kid?
DATON FIX: You know, this moment I've pictured in my head so many times that I've kind of like wished it into the distance kind of.  I've pictured myself up there, pictured myself scoring points, getting takedown after takedown.  Just this whole weekend, it's been a dream come true, and there's just one last part to the dream.
Q. A lot of people thought when you were going to go to Oklahoma State you were going to go 125.  When did you make the decision to go 133, considering all the All-Americans are returning at this weight class?
DATON FIX: You know what, nobody really knew what way I was going to go.  Nobody -- I don't even think the coaches knew really or the guys on the team.  It was just kind of something that happened.  You know, it's really -- I'm probably a true 125 pounder and I'm not very big for the weight, surprisingly.  People think I cut a lot of weight, but I'm not that big really.
I train hard, so that's probably one of the reasons I can compete to this weight.  It's probably the toughest weight in the country, and I love my weight is the hardest weight.  I take pride wrestling in the toughest weight in the tournament.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT