UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS MEDIA CONFERENCE
December 21, 2009
James Kirkendoll
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






 Q. Because you won, how hard a time did you get about the drop? 
 JAMES KIRKENDOLL: I heard it, but I mean life goes on. You drop passes, you catch passes. I mean, I look at it as we won the game. That's the main thing. I've made plenty of plays before. So I just look at it as a negative that turns into a positive and just move on from it. 

 Q. Talk about tickets. 
 JAMES KIRKENDOLL: I've gotten a few calls. Everybody's trying to come to this game. It's a National Championship. I don't know what else you can ask for.

 Q. Talk about you guys talking about playing to win the National Championship at the time did you actually believe it at that point? Do you believe it now? 
 JAMES KIRKENDOLL: Yeah, that was probably my biggest decision. Probably a lot of players biggest decisions in coming to a school like Texas. To actually put yourself in a position to win one. So for us to actually do it, it was really big to actually write something out and trying to reach for that goal and dream, so...

 Q. What does this mean to you being from Austin? 
 JAMES KIRKENDOLL: Especially being from Austin, it means a lot. You grow up and watch the Longhorns, especially after the 2005 team did. To actually be on the team and be able to do it is really a dream.

 Q. Watching that '05 game and now being able to go back to the same place, does that make it a little more special? 
 JAMES KIRKENDOLL: Yeah, it makes it special because you watch that game and you look at what they did, and you get the same opportunity, and it's just like -- it's just a dream. So we're just going to go in there and play football and see what happens.

 Q. Is this like in '05, people are kind of pitting you guys as the underdog. 
 JAMES KIRKENDOLL: I don't think either team's the underdog. You have Alabama and Texas for the big game. We've both got great school tradition, great history. So it's going to be a showdown. 

 Q. Can you talk about the prep from Nebraska to now? You guys really go back and analyze Nebraska or can you just put it all behind you and start back over? 
 JAMES KIRKENDOLL: We treated it like we did every other game. Went back, looked at it. Saw what we needed to do and what we need to work on. Right now we're just in the stage like two-a-days, going back to work. Everybody's getting better. Everybody's pushing each other. And right now it's just really we're working on the mental and physical part of it. And then, you know, a little later on we'll probably get more into game planning for Alabama. 

 Q. I know it's almost Christmas, did you have that special Christmas present when you were a kid? Do you have a favorite Christmas memory to share or a present? 
 JAMES KIRKENDOLL: I was a big Ninja Turtles guy coming up you. Whatever new Ninja Turtle thing coming out, that's what I had every Christmas. So that's what I would want.

 Q. Do you have a favorite Ninja Turtle? 
 JAMES KIRKENDOLL: Yeah, probably Michelangelo, the youngest one. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT