NHL AWARDS CEREMONY
June 23, 2010
Jose Theodore
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Bill Masterton Memorial Trophy   
   
  Q. Obviously this is a very emotional time for you, winning an award but also giving that speech. What are your emotions right now?   
 JOSE THEODORE: Well, it's a mixed feeling, I think. Obviously, you know, it was a tough year emotionally, but I'm really proud of the way I handled myself. Then winning this award just brings back some tough memories or good memories, it depends, but it's tough.   
 I mean, with all the support I had, it was just fun to see people around me that cared for that.   
  
  Q. Going through this, can you talk about it?   
 JOSE THEODORE: Yeah, it just makes you realize giving up a bad goal is not the end of the world. It happened three weeks before training camp opened. I didn't know how I was going to react focus-wise and everything . And to be able to have one of my best seasons I had, I'm really proud of that and looking forward to having a more normal summer, and next year being able to keep building up.   
  
  Q. Talk about how you have to be mentally tough to go through this?   
 JOSE THEODORE: Yeah, I think nobody's prepared for that. Nobody knows how they're going to react. I didn't know. But like I said, having great teammates, great support from fans, family members.   
 At one point, you know, you just take it as probably a big challenge to show everybody that you can play well when people think, you know, it's not going to happen because of that. You want to make sure that's not the reason, and this year finishing 30-7, or something, like I said, I'm proud of the season with everything that happened off the ice.  
  
  Q. You heard what happened to Chase and you channelled the energy that you did have to give back to a cause that means something dear to you. How did that come about? Was it a tough decision? Was it something you knew you wanted to do right away?   
 JOSE THEODORE: Well, right away, like I say, you're never ready to deal with that. And I wanted to give back to the community in Washington and I wanted to give back to kids, babies especially. So I did a charity skates for kids. And in a way it was just a way to focus and just show my mental strength to everybody.   
  
  Q. You've had to make some tough speeches before in the past, some nervous speeches. Where does this one rank?   
 JOSE THEODORE: Let's put it this way, when I won the Vezina and the Hart, I had no speech prepared, and this time I had something prepared because it was tough.   
 I mean, you know, it's not an award growing up that you look at it and you aim for because a lot of times it means you had a sickness or a tragedy. So it's not something you look toward. But I always admired the people that won it, because I know they have to make comebacks and fight through a lot of adversity.   
 For me, off the ice was really tough, but being on the ice for my teammates was just a way to forget about everything and forget a little bit about reality and going out there and playing hard. That was the time that I could really just enjoy myself for a bit.  
  
  Q. Have you had to give advice to people since this happened?   
 JOSE THEODORE: No, I don't think I'm in a position to give advice. I'm still struggling to get by every day. Like I said, yesterday would have been his first birthday, so you can imagine it was twice as hard for me today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT