NEW YORK CITY MARATHON
November 4, 2001
Ziv Bar-Shira
Helene Hines
Saul Mendoza
Francesca Porcellato
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








SAUL MENDOZA:  I just want to thank all the sponsors today to make this a reality.  Thanks for bringing us all here.  I find this a good opportunity to promote the professional wheelchair division sport and it was great race.  I stayed together with this guy from South Africa mile, probably 10, I took away enough to have to push by myself.  It is a beautiful course and this is the kind of races that I enjoy to do.  My time today is the reflection of my practicing.  I am doing probably 125 miles a week and I am full-time wheelchair racer, and right now, this is my profession.  I just love it and just like any other sport, we are very dedicated and we put a full-time  -- it is a full-time job.  I am glad that, today, my time was fairly good.  Thank you. 

FRANCESCA PORCELLATO:  Excuse me, my English is not good.  I am very happy to be here to do the New York City Marathon.  I am happy to be the first and was big experience.  I love all in this Marathon, the people, New York City, all, thank you very much. 

ZIV BAR-SHIRA:  I'd like to thank the organizers  of this event for a great event.  I really enjoyed it.  The course was great and but actually I think it was  -- it wasn't a perfect course for hand cycles.  Actually hand cycles can go even faster 1:10 or 1:15 and but nevertheless, the hand cycle division showed its potential here today and I hope next year the two divisions will be equal in terms of the prize money, thank you very much. 

HELENE HINES:  Hi, I am Helene Hines.  I am from New York, hooray, New York.  Last year I did a 1:57 so I am very happy to do a 1:46 and New York is the first Marathon really to have the hand cranks and the push rims together and we both get prize money and I think Bob Laufer is sort of leading the way to show the other states and the cities and countries that we all work and we're all athletes and everybody should be rewarded the same and I want to congratulate the push rims, you do a fantastic job and you did a great job and some day I will be coached and we'll stick right together.  Thank you.  I guess if are there any questions. 


Q.  Saul, did you feel the same way that this was a challenging course for push rim?

SAUL MENDOZA:  Yeah actually it is.  Some of the hills  -- basically the bridges and some of the turns for us is kind of hard so going down the hill and turning 90 degrees it was pretty tough.  But I think because experience that we have with the chairs we can handle it and of course it is a big challenge.


Q.  Can you explain the difference between competing in hand cycling and push rim in terms of your physical -- what you are required to do, what is the difference in terms of the technical aspects of the sports?

HELENE HINES:  A lot of us took up the hand cycle instead of rim because of disabilities.  I can't lean forward with the push rim.  Paraplegics and quads cannot use the push rim but we can use the hand crank.  It is like double in weight but it's very difficult pushing this thing so you don't see too many woman doing it because most women don't have upper body strength.  It is very hard to do.  But it's very exciting because we're able to get now more people with other disabilities into an exercise where they couldn't do it before and it was funny last year I said eventually maybe like in five years they would catch up and this year we actually had more hand cycles than we have push rims.


Q.  In the competition?

HELENE HINES:  Yeah, it's really taking off. 


Q.  How big was the whole field today? 


Q.  What was the split?


Q.  Do you see yourself as going in competition with the hand cyclists? 

SAUL MENDOZA: Not really.  Hand cycle and push rim, we're even though we looks just the same we're different sports.  I relate more to hand cycle as a bicycle and we're more related as if you were a runner, running with regular wheelchair, the speeds of course are different.  They can go faster than us because the difference gears that we have and we don't have any gears, but like she was saying before it's a sport that's growing a lot and it's I think it's a good opportunity to show the sport to a lot of people with disability, more like a new disabilities, I think that's easier to get into the hand cycle than get  -- get special position and special technique for the racing chair and I think that's one of the reasons that it's going to grow a lot, hand cycle.  Myself, I think I am going to do some cross country  -- some cross training through the hand cycle.  It's real good. 


Q.  Same question do you see yourself as being in competition with the push rims? 

ZIV BAR-SHIRA:  No, I think myself I was wheelchair racer for ten years before I switched to hand cycle and found it easier, but as Saul said, it's a different sport.  And the main difference is hand cycle is like bicycle and racing wheelchair is like  -- is mainly for athletics.


Q.  Saul, were you disappointed that Nietlispach dropped off in the last couple of weeks before the race?

SAUL MENDOZA:  Yeah, actually I was a little bit.  I think Nietlispach is one of the best in the world and it's always good to run with them, but in -- actually, in a week I am leaving to Japan where we are going to have a great competition with other guys so that will be very interesting to see what kind of level I am at at this point in my performance.


Q.  Would it have been a different race today if he was here? 

SAUL MENDOZA:  I don't know, probably, it would because every time, every race is different, so it would be interesting to see how he's pushing.

SAUL MENDOZA:  But Schabort and Scott Hollonbeck they are pretty much the same level, so it was if -- you know, to finish with them for half of the race. 


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT