EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 9, 2008
S.S.P. Chawrasia
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   SHENTON GOMEZ:  Good job out there today.  You must be very happy with your score today? 
 S.S.P CHOWRASIA:  Tough conditions, 1-under is a good score.  The conditions were pretty tough and very windy so that's why I'm quite happy with my score despite the last hole. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  You had a good run two, birdies on the start, just run through the round, how was it for you today. 
 S.S.P CHOWRASIA:  I started off well with a birdie on the first and the third and I turned at 2-under, and I spoiled only two holes, the 10th which was a double-bogey and I 3-putted the last hole, 18, but overall I was quite happy. 

 Q.  You went into the bushes a lot of times, what was the reason? 
 S.S.P CHOWRASIA:  It was quite windy out there, and also, I spoiled my swing on a couple of occasions, but still considering the conditions, it was fairly okay. 

 Q.  What was the advantage of playing with Arjun Atwal? 
 S.S.P CHOWRASIA:  It was good to play with Arjun Atwal.  I've played with him before, but this time I was playing after a very long time and he's a very good person and a jolly person to play with. 

 Q.  Can you tell us about the chip on the third hole? 
 S.S.P CHOWRASIA:  Well, the second shot on the third hole, I hit into the bunker, and after that, I was actually going for a chip-putt, but it was kind of a fluke, a lucky shot, and so I was quite happy about that because it was more of a fluke and I didn't actually go for a putt from there. 

 Q.  Did you take the return putt on 18 a little too casual? 
 S.S.P CHOWRASIA:  Well, the first putt was okay but the line was a little short and now I feel that the second putt that I took was probably a little casual.  I should have watched the line a little bit better. 

 Q.  Overall how was the putting?  The greens seemed to be quite difficult for many of the golfers. 
 S.S.P CHOWRASIA:  Well, the greens are quite brown, and after so much play, it's become quite tough to read the lines and all of the players are trying their best.  But unfortunately the greens itself, it's become very difficult for all the golfers. 

 Q.  You've played a lot at the Delhi Golf Club but this is a very big tournament, and how do you like the atmosphere because this does not look like the Delhi Golf Club that you know; how are you adjusting to such a big tournament in such conditions? 
 S.S.P CHOWRASIA:  Well, I have played here a lot of times but because it's a big event on The European Tour, they have made a lot of changes. 
 But overall the course is okay and I'm quite happy to play it. 
 SHENTON GOMEZ:  Thank you and good luck in the final round tomorrow. 



END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT