PORTUGAL MASTERS
October 15, 2010
Maarten Lafeber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   GORDON SIMPSON: Well, we are glad to be joined here by Maarten Lafeber who is leading the championship by two shots on 13-under par. Martin, I think there were signs last week you were coming into form and now you have the chance to prove it over the weekend.  
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: Yeah, right last week at the Dunhill I played nice. I knew it was going to be a bit easy today. I know from the last few years that it's a golf course that you can make quite a lot of birdies, and I did that, especially yesterday, a lot of birdies and today I got off to a great start, so I'm really happy with how I'm playing.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Your card is safe now for next season, but it must have been frustrating to be still No. 100, and you've got ambitions of being much higher than that.   
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: I know, it's been a long year, but my dad has been seriously ill and we had our second baby, so a lots has been going on this year.   
 Apart from that, I've been very consistent this year. I've only missed three cuts, but I haven't had four good rounds. I just kept on working hard and I found my putting touch the last couple of weeks and it shows.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Half a million Euro at stake on Sunday, a 100 could easily be 60 in one week.  
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: Yeah, obviously I want to finish high and I feel like I should be a lot higher in The Race to Dubai. Hopefully in the next few weeks I can still pull it off to get to Dubai and that would be great.   
  
  Q. (Regarding playing in Portugal).   
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: Well, even as an amateur, I played quite a lot here and the Dutch National Team, we had a few weeks here. At the moment, the Algarve, I find it a very relaxed atmosphere and I really enjoy being here. It's good food and my family is here to enjoy it, and the weather is always good, so I couldn't ask for me.   
 GORDON SIMPSON: Probably been a while since you've been leading by two shots going into a weekend. I think you said it's easy to shoot a very low score here, and you can take nothing at all for granted.  
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: Yeah, Molinari I think was 2-over starting the round and shoots 10-under, and he's right in it. So I mean, you know guys are going to shoot their scores on the weekend and the only thing that I can do is control my own game but hopefully there are enough birdies and.  
 GORDON SIMPSON: Highlights today? You had two, didn't you?   
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: I made a good save on the first, and the second hole I had a perfect number and hit a sand iron and it spun back in and made a huge birdie on the next. So straightaway, and the second, a lot of crosswinds, but I would say it's a bit unlucky with the par putt on 17.  
 GORDON SIMPSON: And a good one on 18.  
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: Yeah, a very hard hole and I bumped up my second shot and had to go through the hole -- I had a pretty good pace on the first putt but I left it quite a bit short.   
  
  Q. (Regarding course strategy).  
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: There's quite a few short holes, if you look at the scoring -- I think it's a golf course that you can make a lot of birdies, but you have to be careful on the back nine. I lost my focus on 17 and ended up in the water, so we cannot take it for granted. But there's quite a lot of chances out there, as well, and you have to make them.   
  
  Q. Inaudible.  
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: Great. When I won in Holland but any time you can play well in your own National Open, it's fantastic. I think it's the fifth major of the year when you can play in your own country and nice to play that well and to be right up there.   
  
  Q. Thoughts on chances for Holland's bid to host The Ryder Cup in 2018?  
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: Our bid is very strong. I think France and Germany are favourites big time. I think what's good is the way they presented it, the way the course is and from what point of view they present it, and it's going to do a lot for golf in Holland, obviously, and also in Belgium, as well, and they made a good bid. So like I say, it will be tough to beat France or Germany.  
 GORDON SIMPSON: Well played again, thank you very much. Good luck over the weekend.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT