JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 28, 2009
Maarten Lafeber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   MAARTEN LAFEBER: Unbelievable, I played flawless. This sounds weird but could have been a lot lower even. I hardly missed a shot and I just hit one mediocre shot, poor shot, tee shot on 9, I had a lot of ball. 
 Apart from that, I had so many putts, and I missed a 4-footer on the second for birdie. But the greens weren't great this afternoon, so I holed a couple of good putts, so I think it was a great round of golf.

 Q. When you're playing as well as that in the position you are, you don't expect a lot of ball, do you, not on The European Tour. 
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: You know, the rough is high. If you go outside even of the semi-rough into the thick stuff, you have to be careful because it's soft and the ball doesn't bounce and just digs in. I just hit a poor tee shot, and the marshals put a hand up and found four balls but didn't find my ball. I just made a bad swing. 

 Q. Is this a continuation or step up on the Czech Republic the other week?
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: I've been playing better. I felt last week in Holland was disappointing because I played really solid apart from three holes. I just have to keep fighting and grinding. 
 I'm not in a great position this year and just take every day as it comes and I'm working hard on the right things. Today I was very pleased. There was quite a bit of wind and I take it, I played from the fairway good. 

 Q. Must give you confidence and peace of mind knowing that the work you are doing us paying dividends. 
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: I feel I'm doing the right things and it has not been paying off. I just played very good today and I was very happy and very satisfied despite the lost ball on the last, I would have signed for 67 today.

 Q. Was it that much easier in the afternoon with the sun coming up and the wind?
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: The wind is tricky, but I have to say we were lucky with the draw. I don't know how it was this morning, but the wind was up and they put some tees forward. You still have to hit the ball straight and I just hit some great iron shots which gave me easy birdies and that's always welcome on this golf course because they don't come easy.

 Q. Any feeling of what might be needed over the weekend? 
 MAARTEN LAFEBER: No idea. I played with Paul last week the first two rounds, and I think he played unbelievable. He could have been leading by six, he was playing so well. I mean, I just take it one day at a time and see where we finish on Sunday. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT