EMAAR-MGF INDIAN MASTERS
February 7, 2008
Maarten Lafeber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


   MAARTEN LAFEBER:  Under 70 is really good on this course but I'm very disappointed.  I played really, really excellent tee-to-green.  I putted like a blind man today.  I had 4-iron into the last, made par there, and made a stupid bogey on 17.   
 Apart from that, didn't hole anything.  I made one putt out of six feet, and the rest were birdies stone dead next to the pin.  That's been the story for the past four weeks.  I'm playing quite solid, but can't find any good rhythm on the greens here, so have to be very patient.   
 But then again, 69 is a good score, and it's very tricky out here.  It's easy to make bogeys and double-bogeys.  So anything under 70 is really good.  If you're not putting well then 69 is a very good score.   
 I played really well.  I missed a couple short ones for birdie, three or four from eight feet for birdie, and I just didn't make my chances.  I played really well.  I think my game plan was really well.  I think I played overall quite defensive, just hit a lot of irons off the tee and tried to get into position, so just tried to do the same and hopefully can make some putts.   
  
  Q.  Is the problem pace or reading the grain?   
 MAARTEN LAFEBER:  A bit of both.  I think pace is not too good and I think green reading is pretty good, but at one point, after putting pretty poorly for ten years on Tour already, I feel my practise is good and I feel confident when I go out but just a lot of putts go over the edge and I feel my pace is just lacking on the last few holes.  And then it's hard to make putts and really go for it.  Just have to especially keep working on it, and some day they are going to drop.   
  
  Q.  Your thoughts on the first time to India, like most of us?   
 MAARTEN LAFEBER:  It's interesting, I guess it's just trying to stay healthy.  It's very interesting and I have to say it's a very good golf course.  I know it's not the best condition maybe and it's a bit yellow, but the layout is really good and you really have to be straight.  I enjoy it here, yeah.   
   
  End of FastScripts   

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT