BARCLAYS SCOTTISH OPEN
July 9, 2005
Maarten Lafeber
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








GORDON SIMPSON:  Maarten, well played today, you are joint leader going into the last round.  It looks like it's set up a wonderful finale tomorrow.
MAARTEN LAFEBER:  Yeah, it looks great.  I'm very happy in the position where I am, and that was the goal, to be in the lead after three rounds and to give myself a chance tomorrow.

Obviously that's what I did and it's very satisfying.  But it's a lot of strong players behind me, so I have to play really well tomorrow to finish on top.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Will you be looking over your shoulder?
MAARTEN LAFEBER:  Maybe sometimes.  I think the thing I need to do is drive the ball the same way.  I hit 14 fairways again today and just need to get a bit stronger with my irons.  That was the key today.  It was a disappointing finish, I was already 15 under after four holes, and then just made a couple of poor swings and made bogey on 8.  But the whole time I was in between clubs and that made it really hard.  Yesterday it was easy because every time it was perfect yardage, perfect club, and I hit it close.  But hopefully tomorrow it's a bit sharper and I can make some more birdies.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Are you feeling more comfortable now in this position having a victory behind you?
MAARTEN LAFEBER:  Last year was a rough year and it was tough.  I didn't play well.  I was swinging the club terrible and I didn't feel comfortable on the golf course.

This year I was playing solid the whole year.  Only thing I was missing was weeks like this, and now hitting it better and I started working with Jos on Wednesday and that was a big difference.  I feel really confident on the golf course.
Q.  Inaudible?
MAARTEN LAFEBER:  Well, I don't know, he speaks maybe differently than I do, but shot a great 63 yesterday and played great.  Obviously he can shoot 63 64, but it's not a gimmee out here.  You still have to hit good iron shots and the greens are spiking up in the afternoon.  Angel hit a couple of great putts I thought would go in the middle of the holes, and some of mine did. When I was 15 under after four holes, I thought I could get close to 20 under, but well, like I said, if you're in between yardages, it's hard to attack the pins.  But I felt 18 under would have been a good target today.
Q.  Inaudible?
MAARTEN LAFEBER:  I've got no idea.
Q.  Do you watch the leaderboard at all?
MAARTEN LAFEBER:  A little bit.  I always watch some of the leaderboards.  Some guys just never watch the leaderboard and just ignore, play their own game.  Sometimes, when I know I was playing solid and I was still close to the leaders or in the lead, and I saw what was going on on the board, like Adam Scott.  I was just trying to play my own game and just play shot by shot and that worked out quite well.
Q.  Inaudible?
MAARTEN LAFEBER:  I just have to play my own game.  All of the guys, there's Ernie, Luke Donald, Adam Scott, Cabrera, they are all great players and all top in the World Ranking.  So I have big respect for those guys and they are world class players.  So the only thing I can do is play my own game and give up 100% tomorrow and we'll see by the end of the day where I finish off.  If I would be first, it would be unbelievable, and if it's something else, then so be it.  I can only control my own game.
Q.  Will the Scottish crowd both you at all, playing with Alastair?
MAARTEN LAFEBER:  I don't mind.  I like playing with Alastair, I've played with him quite a few times on Tour.  I think a Scottish crowd, it's great to everybody here, all the players and more people cheering, the more crowd you're going to get.  So it doesn't really make a difference for me.
GORDON SIMPSON:  Good luck tomorrow.  Thank you very much.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT