SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 27, 2005
Rodger Davis
Jay Haas
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Q.
You're 5 under for the day.  How do you feel about that?

RODGER DAVIS:  Oh, pretty good.  Although disappointed, to tell you the truth.  I had two, three putts on the back nine and I missed about a three footer for birdie at the 12th.  So it could have been well better.
Q.  What improvements do you think you'll have for tomorrow?

RODGER DAVIS:  Couple of more of those and I think I could just about win the tournament.

That would be great.

FastScripts by ASAP Sports ....


JAY HAAS
Q.  What is like juggling your time between here and the Regular TOUR?

JAY HAAS:  I don't feel like it's any different.  I mean, it's a tournament, it's a week away from home.

If I play well, you know, on this TOUR, or the other TOUR, I seem to    I do okay.  If I don't, then I don't do very well.  So it's    I don't feel like I'm juggling anything.  It's just this is a Major tournament, this is one that I wanted to play in, so it's, it doesn't seem to be a burden by any means.
Q.  Being the runner up last year at Valhalla, do you see any similarities in the course or any major differences that really stand out to you?

JAY HAAS:  Not really.  Valhalla was a good test.  We had terrible weather.  It rained just about every single day.  But this is a very good golf course here.  The greens are tough, really subtle greens.  I think that these greens are probably tougher to putt than last year's greens.

Scores were better last year.  I think we were playing lift, clean, and place.  And the ball was stopping and the greens weren't as fast and all that.

So if it doesn't rain, you know, you will see the scores will level out a little bit on the weekend.
Q.  And what is it like watch your Bill, your son play on the Nationwide Tour?

JAY HAAS:  It's great.  I'm nervous for him and I want him to do well.  It's a thrill for me to see him play and when he does well it's great.  When he doesn't, I feel for him, but I understand it's a tough game and it's    he's got a long career ahead of him, so I try to pump him up.

FastScripts by ASAP Sports ....



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT