PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 14, 2010
Sonny Skinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. How did your round go today?
 SONNY SKINNER: My round was a struggle today really. Didn't hit the ball well, didn't get a real feel for the speed of the greens. There wasn't a whole lot of good on it, really. I did make a few birdies on the back, I had hope, the course just plays pretty long for me. I got to hit the ball really well in order to control those long utilities and I just wasn't doing it. I left myself a lot of long putts and then at the end I missed three short ones there, little tap-in par putts, but you know, I had a very good experience the first day. I did a lot of things well to shoot 73. 
 I just wish the rain had held off so that the course would have played a little faster and my ball would have ran a little bit more. I need a little run on my drive in order to be able to compete.

 Q. How did the delay affect your game besides just the golf swing?
 SONNY SKINNER: Say that one more time.

 Q. How did the delay affect game or your mentality coming in?
 SONNY SKINNER: If anything yesterday I, from watching the weather forecast, I didn't think we would probably play at all yesterday, I thought a storm was coming in, and but anyway, we came out here and just to tee off at 6:30, that's a little late, even when I'm at home at the club I don't usually play at 6:30. But you know, I can't say that it affected me a whole lot. I just made some misjudgments with my club selection and hit some errant shots and just didn't play as solid as I did the first day. 

 Q. Talk about your experience overall at the PGA Championship here in Wisconsin. 
 SONNY SKINNER: Oh, the experience overall is tremendous. Just to have the opportunity to come in here and to play on this staying with the quality of players that are in the field that get in to be the world tours and the PGA TOUR and to represent the Top-20 club pros, it's a great experience. We take tremendous pride in being PGA members and promoting the game and playing is a big part of the game and I love to do that. So for me it's a wonderful experience. 
 You get to travel off and play first class golf courses that are setup for the best competition in the world and when you love to play golf like we do, that's what you want to do.




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT