PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 12, 2010
Sonny Skinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. First of all, just try to compare this Pete Dye creation to the one that got you here at French Lick. 
 SONNY SKINNER: Yeah, this is definitely setup a lot more difficult. The landing areas are much tighter. French Lick was a beautiful golf course and very difficult, and definitely a TOUR Championship course. This just seems to have extra. It's all of that plus a little bit more and that's what they intended for it to be and it was a lot of fun to play, it really was. 
 I had some good things happen to me today, along with some bad things, but overall, I was fairly pleased with the way I hung in there and kept my mind on my business and gave it everything I had. 

 Q. A 73 today, and you tried to get up-and-down on 18, and 18 has been tough for everybody today. Your second shot there?
 SONNY SKINNER: I hit a good drive and a good 3-wood, and I still couldn't get there. If I would have had a little bit better lie, could I have got it up in the air a little bit better and flew it on the green. I was pleased because the line it was on was right at the flag. And it definitely could have gone in the water, it could have gone in the bunker, bad lie, and whatever, and then the angle that I had to chip out from -- it was like chipping to the top of your head. It was just like a big ridge.

 Q. Do you feel like you can shore up some areas tomorrow?
 SONNY SKINNER: I think getting a little bit of rest and having one round underneath my under my belt is going to be good. I'm going to go out and do the same things tomorrow. You just never know what game you bring. I warmed up really good today and I started thinking, right out of the gate, oh, Lord, only something bad can happen from here. I hung in there. Everybody is going to have a few bad holes, I would think. 

 Q. In 1999, there was a six-hour delay; and the fog this year, three-hour delay, I guess it's part of coming to Whistling Straits?
 SONNY SKINNER: It is but I tell what you, they have got great hospitality here and the food was good and I ate too meals while I was here. FastScripts by ASAP Sports ...




END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT