PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
August 9, 2013
Sonny Skinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   I guess obviously not the greatest week, but you got to play in another major championship, so how would you describe your rounds or your week?
SONNY SKINNER:   You know, just being here is a tremendous accomplishment, especially for a 53‑year‑old that qualified through the club pro ranks.   Very appreciative to the PGA of America. 
You know, I had envisioned playing better than this.   I know I can play better than this.   I thought I was a straight hitter, but I didn't hit it very straight this week.   I didn't hit enough greens. 
It was a pleasure to be here.   I played with two wonderfully talented young men.   They were gentlemen.   The atmosphere of it all is so rewarding.   I just wish that I had these experiences when I was younger.

Q.   Big crowds both yesterday and today.   That had to have been fun to play in?
SONNY SKINNER:   It's distracting for an older brain.   It is distracting.   I catch myself daydreaming just standing there looking over a sea of people and listening to the roars go up, I'm saying, Was that Mickelson?   Was that Scott?   Who was that? 
All of a sudden, I haven't even gotten my yardage.   I thoroughly enjoyed it.   I think I would be a good reporter, just keeping up with everything.   I have no regrets.   I brought a good friend up here to caddie for me.   I stayed with some friends.   I even had some members from my club come up and watch me play.   All of that is extremely rewarding.

Q.   You finished on 9, right?
SONNY SKINNER:   I did.   I finished with a birdie.   I hit a beautiful drive down there and 24‑degree utility to about eight feet right over the bunker.   I went for it, too.   Normally in that situation I might bail out.   Anyway, I stiffed it and ‑‑ I didn't really stiff it.   Eight feet, but made the putt.   Felt like a made the cut. 

Q.   Good way to end?
SONNY SKINNER:   It was a wonderful way to end.   I tried hard on every shot.   I tried to give myself, put myself in the right mental frame of mind as best I could.   My game just wasn't there, just wasn't there. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT