SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 25, 2013
Sonny Skinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   There may be stretches where it's not so good and so forth, but you're holding your own in this championship and as is Mark Mielke.   So that's great to see the club professionals doing that well.   How would you evaluate your week to this point?  
SONNY SKINNER:   Well, this is only my fourth senior Major, and it's the best one I've ever had, so I can't be too disappointed.   
It is my 17th Champions Tour event and it's the best I've ever done.   So even though I would love to be a little closer to the top, I'm not too terribly disappointed.   I'm realistic and hopefully though can I have a magical round tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You balanced it out with birdies and bogeys today.   So you were able to not let anything get in really bad and let things slip on you?  
SONNY SKINNER:   That's correct.   Didn't make any doubles, triples or quads.   That's always a nice thing.   Fred's a really nice fellow to play with.   He's relaxed.   And he makes you feel comfortable.   And we talked and joked about as we walked around as we talked about all sorts of neat things.   I kind of felt like I was out playing with one of my members.  
   
 Q.   Neat.   It's a fun time to have a partner like that.   Isn't it?  
SONNY SKINNER:   Absolutely.  
   
 Q.   Just your general feeling right now about how your game's come around for this week particularly, because you've had a limited amount of competition before you got here.   And your feelings about have you managed yourself well, have you thought well during the process on some of these tough holes?  
SONNY SKINNER:   I know I can do better.   But I have managed my patience.   Sometimes I can be very temper mental and I have been in spots this week.   But I haven't played a tremendous amount, so I can't be too disappointed.   
   
 Q.   What particular hole today might have kept your round together?   Any particular one hole out there that you might describe?  
SONNY SKINNER:   I think the 7th hole.   I hit my tee shot, I 3‑putt the fifth, after hitting two beautiful shots to the green and then I hit a really solid shot to the sixth and it bounces over the green and goes in the bunker and I had the long delay and I came out and the bunker shot checked, the putt didn't roll out, and then to back it up with a birdie on the next hole, I was really starting to moan and groan there under my breath.   And I made a birdie.   And I was like, okay, it's not all bad.   
But then the 8th, and then the 9th, I was able to make nice par saves even.   Didn't hit the ball good.   So I had a number of nice par putts, just like I did the first day, but I managed to score better the first day.   It's been a scramble all three days, I have not hit the ball well.   So inside of me I feel like I have one day that I can hit the ball good.   So hopefully that will be tomorrow.   
   
 Q.   You're enjoying obviously with your caddie here and the family and the way things are going well there.   
SONNY SKINNER:   My caddie, I couldn't have met up with a nicer gentleman.   Craig's been super extremely supportive and encouraging and especially giving me a nice comfortable house to stay in and I've especially enjoyed their company for sure.  
   
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT