SENIOR PGA CHAMPIONSHIP PRESENTED BY KITCHENAID
May 27, 2012
Sonny Skinner
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Talk about your round. 
SONNY SKINNER:   I felt like I was playing okay.   Made the turn at 2‑under par and I could have had two or three others. 
And then number 10, sitting right there on the fringe of the green and I don't get it in the hole and it took me three. 
But I ‑‑ and then I had a 3‑putt on 12. 
And then I made all pars to the house.   I had one opportunity to make a birdie and that was on number 15. 
But this course played totally different every day, it seemed like.   The temperature would fluctuate 20, 25 degrees it seemed like and the winds would fluctuate from five to 25 miles an hour. 
I loved it.   I enjoyed it.   I look forward to coming back.   I do not have a problem with this golf course.   I like it a lot. 

Q.   Number 18, could you go through that with me on that last hole. 
SONNY SKINNER:   Hit a good drive right down the middle of the fairway and I had a 6‑iron to about 12 feet and I thought that it was going to have a double breaker and I just barely missed it and made a par.   They mis‑scored for me.

Q.   So you did have 1‑under par. 
SONNY SKINNER:   I shot 1‑under.

Q.   That's a good score. 
SONNY SKINNER:   Thank you.

Q.   Like you said, you came in here, you're not complaining, you just wanted to attack it because you said that you liked the challenges, you played enough Jack Nicklaus golf courses. 
SONNY SKINNER:   That's right.   Jack Nicklaus was the best player ever, he's the best competitor, best champion we have ever had, he knows how to design golf courses.   He makes you think, he challenges you, and I like that. 

Q.   This championship you've had a good finish last year, obviously, as low club pro.   You're still in contention depending upon what Bill does down the stretch here and you've always said that this is a great reward for the club professional to come and play with some of the best in the game. 
SONNY SKINNER:   Without a doubt.   The PGA of America really goes above board giving us an opportunity as seniors to compete with these great players from all over the world. 
And Billy Britton is a really solid player and I wish him all the luck in the world.   He's been a friend of mine for a long time, he plays hard golf courses well.   I expect him to hit it down the middle and hit it on the green and make a bunch of pars and a few birdies and it looks like he's doing that.   So hat's off to Billy.

Q.   Your schedule for the rest of the season?   Could you go over that. 
SONNY SKINNER:   My schedule for the rest of the season, first and foremost I'll be working some at River Pointe, but at the same time I'm going to try my hand at getting in some Champions Tour events and hopefully do a little better than I've done so far.   But I'm going to play probably in, I hope five or six more Champions Tour events. 
I am going to skip the National Club Pro Championship this year and try to play in a Champions Tour event.   Give another player out of our section, Bill Murchison, an opportunity to play.   He's a good guy, I have known him since he was born, so I wish him all the luck. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT