NCAA WOMEN'S COLLEGE WORLD SERIES
June 2, 2016
Lonni Alameda
Meghan King
Alex Powers
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Georgia - 5, Florida State - 4   
LONNI ALAMEDA: Yeah, not the outcome we wanted, but definitely like we talked about, we're kind of a young program, and it's all about learning.  I don't know the last time we've put errors like that up on the board but yet still have a chance in the sixth and seventh, so I think there's a lot of positive things we can pull from it, and now it's just really understanding the pitch by pitch in process part at the highest level, so I think that's the one challenge that's up for us right now.   
 Q.  Coach, young team.  Was this just a case of first-game jitters for the Women's College World Series?  
LONNI ALAMEDA: I think it was a little bit in the beginning, which I think for anybody that's the case.  But you know, I think over the process we got a little too emotional with it, which is part of it, and we've got to learn how to play at this level.  It's still a game of catch, and we just let that get to us a little bit.  But we had some fight there, and AP got a good swing off for the team, and if we can learn how to put that behind us, we're rallying into the seventh, and who knows what can happen from there.   
 Q.  For Alex and Jessica, what positives does the offense take away?  You both had two-run homers.  What positives does the offense take away from this game?  
ALEX POWERS: I think that we did an overall good job just adjusting to the pitches and stuff.  I mean, we didn't have obviously, like Coach said, the outcome that we wanted, but we did make adjustments and we could see each other working, whether it was hitting things opposite field and just working our plans and stuff a little bit better.  I think that next time we can do a little more trying to get more people on base and doing more situational hitting, which is what we're good at, but I mean, overall I think that we did a decent job at sticking to our plans and knowing what we were going to get.   
JESSICA WARREN: Same thing.   
 Q.  Meghan, can it get frustrating as a pitcher when the errors or whatever was leading to the runs, is that frustrating for you?  
MEGHAN KING: No, not at all.  My defense had my back the entire year, and they've sold out for every single play, every single pitch.  Mistakes happen.   
 Q.  Coach, what goes into kind of cleaning up their performance heading into this next game?  You have a day off to work on things.  
LONNI ALAMEDA: It's just about preparing for the next competitor.  We've been good -- I mean, the one game doesn't reflect the journey of the season, of the team, and always learn about ourselves, so we just got caught up in the emotional part of it, and pretty certain we'll bounce back and be better for it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT