SOUTHEASTERN CONFERENCE MEDIA DAYS
July 21, 2010
Mike Pouncey
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







		   THE MODERATOR: Wrapping up day one will be Mike Pouncey of Florida. If you could give us some opening thoughts of the season. 
 MIKE POUNCEY: I'm glad to be up here representing the Florida Gators. I heard Coach Mullens went on for about 30 minutes. 
 Been here working hard, trying to better the Gator Nation. Trying to get this thing rolling. 
 THE MODERATOR: Questions. 

 Q. Could you tell us about how John Brantley is doing, how he's adjusting to the role of running the offense?
 MIKE POUNCEY: He's been doing real good. He looked really good in the spring. Me and him worked a lot this off-season about understanding transitioning. He's been looking real good. He's been leading that skill position group as far as the receivers and runningbacks go. We're looking for a lot of great things out of John Brantley this season. 

 Q. What is your reaction when you heard the news about the allegation concerning your brother, if you've talked to him since then, if you feel like the statement that was put out today puts it to rest from your end?
 MIKE POUNCEY: First I'll start by saying I talked to my brother and it's not true. He pretty much cleared that up in the statement today. I feel bad about it because it ruined somebody's name that don't really know who me and my brother are. 
 Those that know who we are know we're not those kind of people. We pride ourselves on having a great clean name. It's just hard right now. 

 Q. Have you at any time during this investigation been concerned about your own eligibility? 
 MIKE POUNCEY: Oh, no. I've answered all the questions that have been asked to me. 

 Q. What have the last couple days been like for you personally having your name out there a little bit, too? How do you think this kind of thing comes about, this kind of report? Where do you think it all comes from? 
 MIKE POUNCEY: Just basically somebody just coming out and saying anything. You know, obviously if something like this comes through, they have to investigate it. We've been totally cooperative with any questions that they have to ask us. We're just ready for it to be done with. 

 Q. I know how close you are with your family. How tough was this on your mom and dad dealing with this? 
 MIKE POUNCEY: You know how my family is. My mom and my dad, they took it real personal because, you know, we come from a great family. We pride ourselves on being great people, having a family-type organization as far as our family goes. 
 You know, they took it pretty tough. We're going to get through this. 

 Q. Could you talk about how the Gator offense is going to be different this year, at least look different, not just the change at quarterback, but the other changes as well? 
 MIKE POUNCEY: We're going to pretty much be the same offense. We're not going to run our quarterback as much. He's not as big as Superman was. But we're looking for great things out of our offense. We have a lot of great skill players that are starting to emerge, especially Andre.

 Q. What do you think Florida has to do to reclaim the SEC title, championship, from Alabama?
 MIKE POUNCEY: We based our whole off-season on being accountable. Alabama is a great team. They beat us last year. We're looking forward to getting back to that SEC championship game. It's going to take a lot of hard work and dedication. We lost some key players. But we got a lot of young guys that are going to step up and prove themselves this year. 

 Q. Do you not envy what John has to do in terms of replacing Tim? I think you referred to him as Superman. That's what everybody thinks of him. What does it take to replace that guy from a play standpoint and leadership and command standpoint?
 MIKE POUNCEY: I think as long as we go out and win on Saturdays, everything is going to work out how it's supposed to. Losing a player like Tim Tebow is going to take a fall on your team. John Brantley, he's had a great run at Florida. He's been there three years, learning from one of the best quarterbacks that played the game. On top of that, he's had a great spring and great off-season. He's ready to lead this team to a championship. 

 Q. How often have you seen agents or runners for agents come up to your brother, try to make contact with him, or with you? Do you think there should be some kind of rule controlling them on a campus or near a campus?
 MIKE POUNCEY: I mean, I haven't seen any people approach my brother, any agent approach my brother. That's a difficult situation that needs to be handled. I feel like if somebody breaks a rule, they should be punished. 

 Q. Would you talk about Chris Rainey in the off-season. I understand he's gotten bigger and stronger. You played with him all these years. What kind of impact is he going to have on the offense this year?
 MIKE POUNCEY: He's going to have a big impact. He's playing more like a Percy Harvin type player this year. He's going to be playing the special teams. He put on some weight, got some weight on him now. The SEC is tough if you got no weight on you. He's been looking real good. Knows his plays this year. We're confident with him being in the game. 
 THE MODERATOR: Mike, thank you. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT