NEC WORLD SERIES OF GOLF
August 22, 1996
Hidemichi Tanaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  So I am sorry I have speak in Japanese right now, but I had a very nice round today and then first of all, I was very nervous, but made a birdie at first hole, after that, you know, feels more kind of like a high, feels very good.  Then I could play as usual I do play.  And I understand obviously this tournament is a major tournament in the United States, so many great golfers, but I was focused on to play golf on the basis to the golf course today so that is why I did pretty good play today.

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  No. 1 hole, hit driver to the fairway and then 9-iron to the second shot, about 22 feet, made a birdie.  Second hole:  Driver, and then 3-iron for the green,  but missed, pulse little bit to the left of the green, and then approach for about three feet, made a birdie.

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  The third hole, driver, and then approach wedge to the green about 45 feet, made a birdie.

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Actually, I made a birdie at number 11, sorry about that.

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Driver and then approach wedge about 85 yards left, shot for about this much, so maybe.

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Six inches.

Number 12, hit with the 7 iron about one foot, birdie.

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Number 18, hit a driver, and second shot was about 110 yards to the pin and then approach wedge about a little bit less than 30 feet and then 3-putted, bogey.

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  The green number 17.


Q.  I got to check couple of these clubs.  Number 3.


Q.  And number?


Q.  No, number 3 and number 18, 442 and 464 and he said wedge in on both of them?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  It is approach wedge.  Inbetween sand wedge and pitching wedge.


Q.  Number 16, what clubs did you play at 16?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Hit drive from the tee and then pulled into the left rough, punched out with 9-iron, then 220 yards left.  Took a 4-iron, little bit pull again in the rough, over the green, approach, about three feet, made par.


Q.  What is your average drive?  How far is your average drive?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  It is about 300 yards today.


Q.  The putt for par on 18, what happened?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  I was nervous.


Q.  How far was the second putt?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  About three, four feet.  Three feet.  One meter.


Q.  What were you thinking when that happened?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  I was sorry because my name is on the top of the board that is why I was so nervous.


Q.  How much golf have you played in the United States?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  This is the third tournament.  Played in Hawaii this  year and Los Angeles Open.


Q.  Before this year though.

THE INTERPRETER:  No, this is the first year he played on PGA TOUR.


Q.  Can you talk about the British Open, what kind of experience that was overall?  What that did for your confidence?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  This was very good experience for me, especially in the first three days I played very well on the British Open, but last days, especially Sunday, back 9 I shoot 5 over par and then I finished 33rd on the tournament, but among all the major players, so this was very good experience for me, and I understand I have to think about 72 holes total ever since I played on the British Open, so that is why I was aiming for to playing 72 holes, not only one, first, second, three days, so.


Q.  Playing so well there and playing so well at the British Open, playing well here, does this make you more eager to play international golf and play in America?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  I have a mind to be playing on the foreign countries  with you as you know I cannot speak English right now, but I have a desire to study English and become more friendly with the American people, or the worldwide people, so in the future I am expecting playing based on international field.


Q.  Are you more nervous for this tournament than other tournaments?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Because the British Open was quite large field, but World Series of Golf only 43 players, so it is naturally if I think about only 43 players and then I am in one, I am -- I am in among in 43 players, so it becomes more nervous.


Q.  For hitting as far as you did, you are not incredibly tall and big.  How tall and how much do you weigh?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  5'6", a little bit less than 5'6" and 58 kilograms, which is about 15 - a little bit less than 130 pounds.  Then I have 66 centimeters waist size, 27 inches, my waist.


Q.  Where do you get all this power?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  I think about hit -- go long, just think about.


Q.  You talked about not speaking English and how tough it is playing here.  Have you had problems with officials?  What is the toughest thing about not having English as a language?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Nothing very particular about tough thing, but people smiling to me but I cannot say anything to them, so.  And also if I played like a British Open played with Seve Ballesteros first two days, but third day he cannot say anything so he like to say more in English, but cannot, that is the toughest thing. 


Q.  Do you know any words in English?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  (IN ENGLISH) McDonalds.  (Laughter.)

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  One more thing, I am not nervous.


Q.  You say you are planning to learn to speak English? Has that started already?  When?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Actually similar here in the United States, so see lots of people, people who help, so even speak, but I cannot understand sometimes what listening, then getting to understand, just understand.  This is my way to learn so far.


Q.  I wonder if you might tell him we weren't laughing at him when he said McDonalds; we weren't laughing at him.  We were just laughing at the idea that he knew that word, that is all.

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Because everybody laugh before I said McDonalds, that means my pronunciation was right.

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Yes, ten years exemption I understand, but I don't think about that.  I just play as I play everyday and day by day for the 72 holes, then after the result, after the result after the 72 holes, if I could win, I am happy, but even if I can't, so I like to play, I satisfied after the four days.


Q.  Can you talk about your popularity in Japan or how  popular you are there or unpopular?

THE INTERPRETER:  That is a difficult question.

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  (IN ENGLISH) very famous.


Q.  I will ask this question which has already been asked before, but so many Japanese players would have had the ability to play on the U.S. Tour for whatever reason have not have chosen to play most of their careers in Japan.  Is it your goal some day to play full-time in the United States or not?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  This was my dream since I have started play golf when I was young, junior, but my ability of golf isn't enough to play on full-time here in the United States, so actually Masters and U.S. Open, that is my dream, but I need more study and experience.  Then in the future if I could grab my confidence, and my golf becomes more well.  I like to play full-time here in the United States.


Q.  Who was your hero growing up?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Tom Watson.


Q.  Have you met him?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  No.  Not yet.


Q.  He is here, you know.

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  I like to have autograph later.


Q.  What is the insignia that you have on your shirt.

THE INTERPRETER:  This is a new design by Taylor Made, made just for him in the Japanese market.  It says Taylor Made  Art.


Q.  What does the card stand for?  Is it ace?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Actually this is a card, ace, but this is an ant.  It is small, but powerful.  I am very small, but powerful.  That is why I decided to use this for my character.


Q.  Is that a bottle on the other one?

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  This series called magician, so that is why they use a card for the character this time.  So I am going to wear different shirts tomorrow and day after tomorrow and please look at my shirts and then you can understand what is going on:  This was maybe not outstanding, I mean, more shiny shirts coming on, so this is the --


End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT