BELL CANADIAN OPEN
September 4, 2003
Hidemichi Tanaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
MODERATOR:   Hidemichi Tanaka, our leader in the clubhouse now.  Your first visit to the Hamilton Golf and Country Club.  If you could talk about your round today. 

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:   The course is very tough.  It's not a long course.  The important thing is where I put the ball on the fairway, so I just concentrated on that point.

MODERATOR:  Where were your birdies and par saves today? 

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:   No. 3, bogey, 30 yards short, about ten feet for the miss. 

4, birdie.  Tee shot, left side bunker.  9-iron, lay up.  Third shot is 126 to the pin.  And pitching wedge, 5-foot. 

No. 8, 5-iron, about ten feet. 

11, tee shot, fairway.  Second shot 181 to the pin.  5-iron, about 20-foot approach chip-in. 

12, 3-iron tee shot, 156 to the pin, 8-iron, one meter, birdie. 

No.  17, tee shot, fairway,244 to the pin, 3-iron, 35 yards short.  Chip shot is sand wedge to about five feet. 


Q.  Can you give a general comment on your play today, how you played today? 

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:   I started off with a bogey this morning and I was a little bit  -- I knew that good management is important on this course.  So I just concentrated on how to I put the ball on the fairway and to be patient. 


Q.  Why did your game score so well today? 

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:   I think that this course, the most important thing is not long hit and be patient and to put the ball on the fairway.  So I just keep that point in mind today, so that's why I think I played well today. 


Q.  This is a much older course.  There are lots of newer courses, and this has a very old clubhouse.  What do you think of playing an older course compared to some of the newer ones? 

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:   The fairways are very undulating and very tricky.  At this point it's very tricky from other new courses.  But when I play, I just am trying to play well.  So it really doesn't matter, a new course or an old course. 

I like this kind of course.  There are a lot of trees and so I like playing this course. 


Q.  Is it similar to courses you grew up on in Japan, with the hills and trees? 

HIDEMICHI TANAKA:   Yes, there are a lot of similar courses in Japan.  I tried to play well and just keep being patient.  Even though my ball was in the rough, I take a bogey and just avoiding the big miss. 



End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT