WGC AMERICAN EXPRESS CHAMPIONSHIP
November 11, 2000
Hidemichi Tanaka
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: I still want to have an autograph from Tiger.  More chance.  (Laughter.) 
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: I'm sorry, I can't speak English.  Amazing.  Very surprised that I am staying here in this position, because maybe the result is better than which I usually have.  
 
Q.  Congratulations.  You have won the season this year twice, two tournaments.  You know how to win. 
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Yes, I won twice, but this is a tournament which is the greatest players all get together here.  So that's why the point is if I can enjoy tomorrow, that's the point.  So I do not know how to win.  
 
Q.  Clarify the last part.  What was the last part of your answer?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: I won twice in Japan, but this is the greatest players get together for a World Championship.  I do not know how to win.  I won twice in Japan.  
 
Q.  If you win tomorrow, do you think Tiger will want your autograph?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Yes, I want to have it.  Well, the autograph thing is kind of like a joke because I know Tiger.  But if I play good here, so everybody knows my name, Tanaka, I am going to World Cup in Argentina this year.  So I'm very happy if the people know my name with this tournament.  
 
Q.  Were you surprised to see yourself on the cover of the official paper today, "Ataca Tanaka"?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Very surprised.  Very surprised.  
 
Q.  I would like to know a little bit about your equipment.  Do you play with Japanese balls, Japanese clubs, or something like that?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Yeah.  Japanese ball, Bridgestone and TaylorMade.  Japanese TaylorMade.   
 
Q.  Are your family golfers, your parents?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Yes, my father does.  
 
Q.  Can we have his handicap?  And also what does he do?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: He was 5 handicap, and a regular kind of job he does.  He does  -- he is working for the regular job.  He does help for his office in Japan, which he owns.  Tanaka owns an office in Japan.  
 
Q.  If you were to win tomorrow, would you think about playing in the United States next year?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Of course.  (Laughter.)  Of course.  My dream.  
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Tom Watson.  
 
Q.  Why?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Aggressive.  I had an imagination that Tom was always aiming to the pin, and aggressive mind and sharp swing.  That's why I like him.  
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: No, I can't.  
 
Q.  You have a great reaction from the public, and you respond to that.  There's been a very warm reaction to you.  Many people call your name.  Many people are shouting that you will be the champion.  How do you feel? Are you surprised at how warm the supporters have been here at Valderrama?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: I am so small, so if the people see me, they agree that I could do such a great potential performance.  And also, I think the professional golfer is an entertainer for the spectators.  For the spectators, I should always try to show the fans enjoyable.  That's the reasons why.  One thing, for myself, the small body.  And the second thing is entertainer.  But the third thing is because I'm always trying to find out how I could have a smile for the spectators.  That's what I'm doing, I'm playing the golf course.  
 
Q.  I know a lot of young Japanese players have Jumbo Ozaki as a mentor.  I'm wondering if that's the same for you.  Also, what is your relationship with Shigeki Maruyama?  He is a rival, or are you friends?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Jumbo Ozaki, obviously he did such a great job in a foreign country.  Then he did make a road which we followed, which I follow with Maruyama, always respect what he told me.  He teach me many things about America or the US PGA TOUR.  Also, he teach me a lot of how to do the performance to spectators to have fans.  
 
Q.  I would like to ask you if you think you will be able to maintain the level of your game tomorrow with the pressure of the lead and having Tiger behind?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Oh, yes.  I become very nervous because I did it.  I felt very nervous this morning.  But tomorrow I have nothing to lose.  I am such a rookie, so there is nothing to be embarrassed about.  I do my best, that's it.  
 
Q.  How many times have you played in America?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  About...  I don't know.  (Laughter.) (Applause.)  Nine times.  Nine times.  
 
Q.  You're playing tomorrow with Mike Weir of Canada.  What do you know about Mike, other than the fact that you may be taller than him?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: So he's such a cool guy, a nice guy, too.  So I like to watch his game tomorrow.  
 
Q.  When you knocked your third shot close at 17, after doffing your cap, you pulled on your shirt, like this.  What does that mean to you?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Thanks for everybody, or I'm so nervous, and that was a scare.  
 
Q.  Could you tell us about your hobbies apart from golf?  Do you cook?  What other interests do you have?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Just golf.  Sometimes shopping.  (Laughter.)  Shopping.  I like Rodeo Drive.  It's a famous shopping area in Los Angeles.  
 
Q.  What do you buy?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: T-shirts.  
 
Q.  How tall are you, and how much do you weigh?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: 166 centimeters, which is about 5'5", and 135 pounds.  Waist is about 28", 29".  
 
Q.  When you were younger, when you were a small child, what was your father's occupation?  How did he earn his money?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Well, he did -- you know the signboard maker? He was making the signboard for -- how do you say...  Big signs?  He sells bags, or those shops? (Indicating.) For the bags and small things.  Also, he was making a big sign, signboards. 
 
Q.  Is this the best golf that you've played of your life, or is it just that we haven't seen it before?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: I do not want to think about this as the best performance of mine.  So  -- but my position, I am very satisfied about my position, but is the best ever.  
 
Q.  Could you talk to us a little bit about Valderrama?  Does it compare at all to anything you have played in Japan?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: The Valderrama is a very, very difficult golf course.  We do not have any compared golf course in Japan.  We meet at 14 different clubs each time, and every each hole is very strong pressure when you're standing on the tee.  You have to think about:  Hook the ball, stretch the ball, hit too far, and do not hit too far.  So many kinds of shots are expected, what I should do.  And obviously I have a technique, but it isn't enough to be playing on this golf course.  I mean, it is very difficult.  
 
Q.  This is the first time you are playing in Spain?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA: Yes.  
 
Q.  Did you try also some kind of food or something? Do you like Spain?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  Because when I get here on Sunday night, then we couldn't  -- I couldn't get  -- I lost five pieces of all of my luggage.  That's why I thought a little bit,  "I don't like Spain."  But today, I love Spain.  (Laughter.) 
 
Q.  Is it still lost?
 
HIDEMICHI TANAKA:  No, it came.  It was the golf club, everything.  But it came.  
 

End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT