ARNOLD PALMER INVITATIONAL PRESENTED BY MASTERCARD
March 29, 2010
Chris Couch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Obviously a solid week for you, you have to feel good about where your game is, a testament to the week here?
 CHRIS COUCH: Yeah, you know, I had four under par rounds, and that was my goal this week, I figured that would be pretty good playing on this golf course. I feel really good about my game. That's my second fourth this year. I'm in striking distance. It's just a matter of getting a few shots better at the end. 

 Q. How much was it weighing on you, knowing the number you need to get to keep on for the rest of the year?
 CHRIS COUCH: That's definitely in my head all the time. I'm just going to take it week-by-week. I'm just glad I'm out here playing. I sat on the couch for two years just like my last name, and it's just been good to be out here and exercising and being healthy.

 Q. And how are you feeling; feeling good? 
 CHRIS COUCH: I am. You know, God definitely blessed me this year with a healthy body. It's been really good. 

 Q. To be able to play in the nine all grouping after writing Arnie all those years, what did that mean to you?
 CHRIS COUCH: I was a little bit inspired, not getting an exemption for 18 years. I wanted to prove to Arnie that I love this golf course and I play well out here. I've played three tournaments out here now, and I won the State Am here by 14 shots. I finished 26th or something the other year I played on the PGA TOUR out here and fourth in year. Maybe in the future if I need an exemption, that will look good on there. 
 I know Arnie will make the right decision. He's a good guy. Like I said before, I've got nothing against Arnie. I was inspired to play well to prove to him that I'm a great player and that, you know, I deserve to be out here. 

 Q. Has he said anything to you this week?
 CHRIS COUCH: No, you know, I heard he made a nice statement about me on TV. I didn't see it, but he said that he thought it was great how well I was playing and what-have-you. I don't know exactly what the statement was, but I was happy to hear that. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT