CHRYSLER CLASSIC OF GREENSBORO
October 7, 2006
Chris Couch
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
JOE CHEMYCZ:  We'd like to welcome Chris Couch to the interview area, 3 under par 69 today and 10 under par total and with that, Chris is our co leader at 54 holes and winner, along with Davis Love of the Astra Zeneca Charity Challenge which goes to the 54 hole leaders.

In support of National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, Astra Zeneca is donating $50,000 each to the American Cancer Society and to Sisters Network in the names of Chris Couch and Davis Love and the Chrysler Classic of Greensboro.

Chris, I know this is the second time you've won this award.  You did it in New Orleans but congratulations on that.
CHRIS COUCH:  Thank you.  It's an honor to be a part of it.  My mom died of cancer so that means a lot to me.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Talk a little bit about your day today, conditions out there and struggling through it.
CHRIS COUCH:  Conditions were very tough.  You know, I don't know if the guys had to play in the wind this morning but the wind was pumping out there this afternoon and I think it got colder as the round went on.

We didn't have a whole lot of rain but just annoying drizzle the whole time and it just seemed to get everything wet and it was tough keeping grips dry and everything else.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Questions?

Q    Chris, playing here, do you feel like that your golf is rarely home and away, that there's going to be a home crowd out for Davis tomorrow?
CHRIS COUCH:  I think so.  I mean he redesigned the course and he well deserves it.  I'm going to like playing along with him with the crowd, you know, that's why we're all out here, to perform in front of a crowd and I think it will be fun.

Q    What propelled you into this position in today's round?
CHRIS COUCH:  I think hitting every fairway today helped.  I hit the ball long off the tee and so when I hit a lot of fairways, it makes the game a lot easier.

The course played long today with the cold and a couple into the wind holes, I had to hit a wood into No. 14 today and so there were some tough holes out there but, you know, I hit a lot of good drives and hit a lot of good second shots and made my four, 5 footers.

Q    On a beautiful weather day could the round have been a whole lot better in?
CHRIS COUCH:  I don't know.  It's tough to say.  I felt like I played as good as I could today.  Easy interview.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  So far.  Letting you off.

Some birdies.  Nothing to start for the first 6 holes.  Birdies at 7, 8 and 9.  Anything happen on the first 6?
CHRIS COUCH:  I had a few opportunities on the first 6.  I missed a couple 12 to 15 footers.  I felt like I have putting really good.

On 7 I knocked it a foot and a half and 8 was playing really tough, hit a 4 iron in there about five feet and made that one.

Then 9 I hit a 9 iron approach shot to about three feet.  So I just kind of got on a little roll with the irons today.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  On the back?
CHRIS COUCH:  On the back I birdied 13 and hit kind of a squirrely second shot, I almost topped it.

Actually, my foot slipped out underneath me and I kind of thinned it up and ended up absolutely perfect.  I had about 70 yards to the pin and perfect angle.  I knocked it about 15 feet, made it.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Bogey was where?
CHRIS COUCH:  Bogey on 17.  I actually hit a 4 iron right at it.  Caught it a little heavy.  Came back into the bunker and hit a poor bunker shot.

Q    Do you remember sitting on the lead in New Orleans?  What was that like for you for the first time?
CHRIS COUCH:  You know, I surprisingly slept well.  I heard a lot of guys have trouble sleeping the night before and, you know, I played to glorify God and that's what I try to do everyday I'm out here.

I think that definitely helps my sleep because, I don't know, I try to go out everyday and do the best I can with the talent He's given me.
JOE CHEMYCZ:  Other questions?  No?  Alright.  Chris, thanks.
CHRIS COUCH:  Thank you.


End of FastScripts.

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT