JOHNNIE WALKER CHAMPIONSHIP AT GLENEAGLES
August 22, 2013
Ignacio Garrido
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   What was the key today?
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   Probably many things combined.   Playing first off with nice, fresh greens helped.   The wind was not blowing, which usually is a key factor here.   And I played solid and took advantage of those conditions and made some good putts.   It was one of those days that everything seems to go nice and easy.   Maybe you have three or four like that in the season. 

Q.   Been impressed with the course changes that they have made around here?
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   Yeah, I think the course is better now.   They have made a few good changes around the greens, and also the setup I think is better.   Probably this setup is prepared for a bit more wind, maybe like this it's playing easier than they would expect.   But still, we have three or four days, and you know how it can change.   Think I this is Scotland, right?   It's not Spain. 

Q.   Anything in particular with the setup?   What is different? 
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   I think most of it is the same.   The thick rough is still there.   Obviously all the hazards and dangers are still there.   Fairways and greens are pretty much the same. 
But, those four or five yards on each side of the fairway, where post of the people would miss, if you just miss your driver or your tee shot, they were normally very severe and you would not have a chance to get to the green, and at the moment, it's playable. 
Obviously depends on the lie, but it's playable and that takes a lot of shots off your score, if you just play half‑decent.   I mean, you don't have to play perfect to have a chance to go for the green.

Q.   Your position on the Order of Merit, is it a concern, 104 I think at the minute? 
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   Well, I was telling to your colleague, I shouldn't have played for three or four months.   I've been suffering from glandular fever since the Spanish Open.   It was Morocco where I came back and I was feeling very bad and I withdrew from Korea and went to the doctor and he told me that I had this glandular fever.   He said, you shouldn't play for a month.   What?   I'm in the middle of the season.   I thought, doesn't matter, I'll get over it and just play on. 
And, well, I went to China and I played just one round and I had to retire because the fever was up, and it's been like that for at least two months and I was feeling so weak, it was unbelievable.   Every time I played 12 holes, my fever went up and I haven't been able to practise or go to the gym or anything, so it's been tough. 
When I went back, I saw a doctor, just before the block of French, Scottish and all that, and he said, well, you really have to stop because it's exactly the same as it was two months ago.   And I said, well, I can't stop at the best part of the season, which I should have done, because playing for nothing is a bit silly.   But, you know, it's a difficult decision to take. 
I mean, it's easy to say now, that I should have stopped, but what happens if I go to France and I finish fourth. 

Q.   How are you now at the moment?
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   I'm better.   After The Scottish Open, I decided to stop for as long as it was necessary until the virus‑‑ because that's a virus, and if it's still in your body, well‑‑ the problem is, the only medicine for it is rest. 
The thing is, golf is not tennis.   If you have been tennis or football, I should have stopped and I wouldn't have had any other option.   I thought, okay, well, I'll take it easy, I won't practise that much and I won't go to the gym, but that didn't happen.   But luckily, well, I rested for two or three weeks completely, and I got rid of it, luckily, so I could practise for the last two weeks. 
The main thing is that I feel‑‑ not strong, because I haven't trained for a long time, but it feels that I am strong, because I've been so weak for so long.   It's weird. 
It was funny, Wentworth, the first day, I think I hit seven woods to the greens.   I could not make the ball fly.   It was unbelievable.   I don't know if you've suffered it, but it's not nice.   The problem is, it's not like a normal illness that you feel all day; you wake up in the morning and you say, okay, I'm fine.   And after four holes, my legs are hurting, and you start losing your focus because you've got no energy.   It's incredible. 
But anyway, it's over now. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT