VOLVO PGA CHAMPIONSHIP
May 24, 2003
Ignacio Garrido
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







MARIA ACACIA:  66, steady round, and you putted well.
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   Well, I guess one way to play well is to be consistent in all parts of your game.  You need to be a very good ball striker, to shape the ball both ways around the golf course and that's what I did well today, and holed the putts.  So I stayed out of trouble and holed the putts.  That's the key, basically. 

Q.  After two days of really blustery wind, with the weather being a lot calmer, the scoring is going to be better, isn't it? 
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   Obviously.  If it were this difficult in calm conditions, you can imagine how tough it is when it is blowing like yesterday or the day before.  Especially because for some reason, it looks like you always have cross-wind.  You never have a downwind or into the wind.  It's always like left-to-right or right-to-left, and also, the worst thing is that sometimes you don't even know where it's coming from because it channels through the trees.  Obviously that was a lot more relaxing today.  You know that a good shot was a good shot and the wind was not going to affect it.  That makes it play easier and it gives you an even better score on the round.  As I said before, that's what I managed to do today.

Q.  Have you felt your form coming back, because we haven't seen that much of you in press conferences. 
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   Yeah, I was just saying before that I've been through very big changes in my swing for the last one-and-a-half years.  While my plan  -- it was a long-term plan  -- it was changes that I knew it would take a long time to get used to them, if I ever did, because you never know with this game.  I was thinking in two-and-a-half to three years, really, to be real swinging really. 
Well, obviously, I expected for this year some results to come, and little by little, they are coming.  Actually, this is probably the first week that I gave myself the chance to just play without thinking about my technique and see what happened, and obviously, it's working quite well. 
Still, it's just the first steps, really.  I can't get overexcited about it because I know there's still a lot of work.  I know when I'm still under pressure sometimes, my old swing comes into the scene and I need to be very careful with it.  That's what I managed to do well today.
Probably wasn't as  -- I didn't feel the pressure as much as I would have felt normally, leading the tournament, because I was still not knowing how my swing was going to react to it.  I was accepting that; well, mistakes can come and strange shots can come, but I need to learn from them when I am up there.  As you know, practising is a lot easier.  Luckily, they didn't show up.  And I didn't want to do that.  I hope they stay away till tomorrow at 5:00 or something like that. 

Q.  Is your father helping with these swing changes?
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   Yeah, he's always been there.  I've had new ideas from Domingo Hospital, I'm sure you know him and he's been very helpful.  I have always worked with my father, and sometimes being too close, you lose perspective.  Those new, refreshing ideas have helped a lot.  Actually, when I asked him, I thought it was going to be just little things, but he said, "Look, if you want me to help you, we need to change the whole thing."   
And I said, "I've played this game for fun and I really want to enjoy it, so let's go with it.  If it doesn't happen, it doesn't happen."   

Q.  So when you made the Ryder Cup, your swing wasn't what you wanted it to be? 
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   I thought it was, but now I understand why I couldn't keep that going.  Because my swing was  -- I mean, my chipping and putting were very good at that time and that always helps.  Obviously, well, you know how many hours we spend practising, so anything that you make mechanical can work to a certain point, but obviously I was limited for many shots.  When you are messing around a little bit, that's when you are in trouble.  I guess good players are not the ones that can shoot 64s.  They are the ones that when they are not playing well, they still finish 20th in the tournament, and that's what I couldn't do before.  When I lost my game, I really lost it.  So I could be Top-5 in the tournament or one of the last five, depending on how my game was performing.  That's when I tried to change to be a little more consistent.

Q.  When did you decide you needed to change?
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   Well, it's a really difficult decision.  When I got to the point where I didn't feel like working that much  -- I've always enjoyed so much practising and working.  I got to the point that I thought, the more I work, probably the worse it goes.  And I thought, well, I need a change.  But it's difficult to know which way to go; I mean, who to listen to, because if you make the wrong decision, probably your career is gone. 
I think I've been very lucky to find someone that has really helped me in simple ways, but obviously, big changes at the same time. 

Q.  It's building up for a really good finish tomorrow, with all of the really good names, Els; Faldo; Montgomerie, coming through; does that excite you to be involved in something like that? 
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   I think the ultimate goal of any player in any sport is to be competing with the best.  Of course, it's exciting.  But the best thing about this game is that you don't have to play against anyone.  It doesn't matter if I play with Ernie or with Monty tomorrow.  They can't affect my game. 
And that's what makes it easier.  It wouldn't be the same if I'm playing tennis against them.  You know that you can have difficult balls coming back, but it's not going to be like that.  I've always enjoyed playing with good players, because even if you play not that well, you always learn something.  I've been lucky, also, to beat them sometimes.  So it's really exciting and I'm really looking forward to it tomorrow.

Q.  Was the big thing you learned at Valderrama and the Ryder Cup was that you could handle it mentally?
IGNACIO GARRIDO:   Yeah, of course.  Unless you achieve something, you don't really know if you can do it.  That's obvious.  You can't be confident about something that is going to happen, but unless it happens, you don't know if you can handle that pressure or if you can win a tournament, because, well, you all know how difficult it is and how much you can lose your head when those things are happening under that much pressure. 
Yeah, I've learned that somehow I can cope with it, and that's some experience that helps a lot, of course. 



End of FastScripts....

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT