IRISH OPEN PRESENTED BY DISCOVER IRELAND
July 29, 2011
Ignacio Garrido
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. So many birdies, excellent day, wasn't it. 
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: Yeah, yeah, it was a good day. I played solid I think, and I took my chances, and especially at the end of each nine, finished with three birdies each nine, which is always a bonus, and overall, it was a pretty solid round and good result. 

 Q. You took your chances; so plenty of them?
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: Well, there were a few, of course, but I would say I took most of them today and it's one of those days that the putter is working, and you hold the ones that you want to hold. And, well, on top of that, a long one at the last which helps, but I mean, it wasn't a perfect round. I missed some greens, but I managed to get up-and-down most of the time, and the holes that I played well, I took my birdies. 
 As I said, good round of golf. 

 Q. How long was that long one at 18? 
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: Probably 12 metres or something. One of those that you just want to knock it close, and you end up getting it very close indeed. So it was kind of the creme on top. 

 Q. I know it's only the halfway stage, but you're conscious presumably of where you are on that board?
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: As you say, it's only halfway, and the good thing is that wherever we want to be, we want to have a chance at the weekend. So the game is good. The result, is with the game, so far, and we'll see what happens. 

 Q. The game is good. Haven't seen you up on the board for a little while?
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: Well, it's been a difficult year. I just started I think three weeks ago with some new physios, having some trouble. I had some trouble last year with my back, and, well, kind of it never went, and it's been affecting my neck, it's been affecting my lower back. And I haven't been able to get the rhythm. 
 On top of, that I haven't played great, but if you just play one week, and I don't know, for example, I played Wentworth and I played well; the next week, I'm going to Wales and I'm sick with flu, and I can't play. And then I go to Munich, I played six holes because my back is not allowing me to play. 
 I played well in Paris, and I'm in Scotland, the first tee, and I'm like this and I have to call the physio. So it's been a difficult year. I started three weeks ago with Dale Richardson and the physios, and I'm very happy with the work we are doing. I told him last week, even though I missed the cut, that I was feeling good, and I was managing to practise and to get going, you know, and probably the game wasn't that bad and just needed some confidence in the body.

 Q. Have they got to the root of the problem now?
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: I think so, yes. I mean, there's some stiffness in the right part of my back that has been developing. Probably a bit of it is my fault, because I should have had more treatment. You know, when you feel good, and nothing is bothering you, you think that it's going to be like that forever, and probably that physio work, well, was not enough. Luckily, it looks like, well, obviously in a month, you can't say a lot, but it has gone the right direction for sure. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT