BMW INTERNATIONAL OPEN
June 25, 2010
Ignacio Garrido
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. 11-under, is it a bit of a Spanish feel to the leaderboard at the moment?
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: Yes, it's nice that both of us are up there halfway through. Well, still a long way to go but it's nice to be in such a position for the weekend.

 Q. You made a lot of birdies. I suppose you have to do that around here?
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: Well, I didn't get off to a good start, three bogeys in the first eight holes. It was a slow start but I mixed it up with birdies and managed to stay around par, and suddenly it all happened in the back nine. I birdied one of them and all of them came together from there.
 I've been playing quite well and quite solid yesterday and today and I guess I took my chances and so that's why I made a lot of birdies. Well, just have to keep doing the same, giving myself chances.

 Q. You must have been here a fair few times before; do you like this course?
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: I do. It's nice. I've always thought that it's a course that we score a lot better than we think we are going to do. You know, it doesn't look that easy. This week the weather has been very, very kind to us, no wind, perfect conditions and the course is in great shape, so it's easier but still you have to play well. So always surprised how well we score around here.

 Q. How have you done previously? Have you featured on the leaderboard like you are now?
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: I've been fourth or fifth once but that's my best performance here. I don't think my record is very good here. 

 Q. But you have the feeling this weekend that might change? 
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: You know, I think it's all about your game and your mental attitude. It's not about the course, at least that's what I think. 

 Q. So how is your game and your mental attitude?
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: It's quite solid at the moment, and I'm not making too many mistakes and as I said, giving myself chances. I'm looking forward to it and enjoying. I'm enjoying playing, which is probably the main thing for us. That's a good sign. So you never know, we'll see. 

 Q. When was the last time you truly enjoyed it like you are now? 
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: To be honest, I've been enjoying it for I would say almost a year now. I had a few rough years where I was not really enjoying it that much, and then you push too hard and you try to make a result instead of just enjoying your game. And, well, happily it has changed and now I am enjoying it out there. I'm not thinking after my round, it's over; I would like to keep playing for a few more holes which is a good sign.

 Q. Watching the football tonight? 
 IGNACIO GARRIDO: Yes, you have to. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT