U.S. SENIOR AMATEUR CHAMPIONSHIP
August 28, 2019
Paul Jett
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  Tell me about your thoughts about today's match, because it was another one of though back-and-forth type deals.  
PAUL JETT: I didn't play all that great. I hit a couple drives that cost me, especially the one on 16. Couple three-putts on obviously the 19th hole and then I had another one earlier in the round that I gave him a hole.   
I don't think I made but -- I don't remember whether it was one or two birdies, but wasn't enough. I did make a couple good par putts on 17 and 18 just to keep the match going, so I'm proud of that.   
But just wasn't quite as sharp as I had been the last two or three days.   
 Q.  How about overall experience, especially with it being your first one? Was it everything you thought it would be or was it different?  
PAUL JETT: Well, you know, I really had no idea what it would be. I've been on the other side of these things, but as a player, you know, I've never been treated this well at a golf tournament or at any club that I've ever been to.   
It was an unforgettable experience.   
 Q.  Does this motivate you to want to play more? Do you think you'll change your schedule down the road because of this experience?  
PAUL JETT: Well, you know, I would like to play more, but I got a job, and unfortunately I can't take weeks off during the summer to go play places. I will have to pick and choose.   
I can probably play some Carolina seniors' events. Does getting into the final eight get my into next year?   
 Q.  Uh-huh.  
PAUL JETT: Well, I'll play next year, so I'll put that on the calendar. But as far as just going around and playing six, eight times a summer, that's not going to happen.   
 Q.  Now that you've gone head-to-head with these guys, is there any part of your game you feel you need to sharpen up?  
PAUL JETT: The putter. As much as I worked on it in last couple years, there is still more work to be done. Ultimately that's what cost me the match today.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT