BIG EAST CONFERENCE WOMEN'S TOURNAMENT
March 6, 2011
Jasmine Collins
Terri Mitchell
Angel Robinson
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Rutgers: 68
  Marquette: 62

 THE MODERATOR: Joining us center Marquette is head Coach Terri Mitchell along can senior forward Jasmine Collins and Angel Robinson, Coach? 
 COACH MITCHELL: We fought for forty minutes and the final score didn't end up in our favor but we had nothing to hang our heads about, I thought we did everything we could to win the game. 
 They jumped on us early and we came back and the second half they hit shots and we didn't. Like I told our players at the end of the game this league prepares you for any team in the country now it's the next season of the NCAA Tournament and there isn't anybody we will see in the first round that hasn't prepared us because our league is so deep and so strong with so many different styles that we will be prepared when that time comes. 

 Q. Angel, you closed the first half on the 16-2 run, can you talk about what led to that and why was it that you were able to not keep the momentum going? 
 ANGEL ROBINSON: Our team gets going and we get defensive stops and we've been preaching that all year. When we get in the hole against teams it's because our offense is not great and then we come down and we didn't get the stops that we need. So they came out hot but we settled down and we up'd our focus and got the stops and that's why we were able to cut into the lead and we had to cut back into their lead each media and we executed. 

 Q. Jasmine, you tied a career high with 17 points, what was it that allowed you to do that? 
 JASMINE COLLINS: I was letting the game come to me and I was focused on my defensive rebounding and my team helped me and that's how I got the scores. 

 Q. Coach, could you talk about April Sykes in the second half. She became aggressive, was that the way you saw it? 
 COACH MITCHELL: She did. It looked like from the first half she had -- I'm sure there was -- they told her to be more aggressive because I think she had 7 straight points there, I could be mistaken, and she was looking for opportunities to score not just from the three but any way, and her aggressiveness took us out of the paint and opened things up inside. So when she started hitting shots, we were compromised and it was able to open up their inside game. 
 When that happened I thought the game turned at that point. 

 Q. Coach, team went on a nice run to close out the first half, were you waiting for that run to come back the second half? 
 COACH MITCHELL: I was, I thought we had it in us, and it didn't happen because I know we can get defensive stops. It happened at the end but it was too late then, and we put on the pressure and probably in retrospect we needed to pressure sooner because there were several turnovers back-to-back and that's something for me to remember. I just thought we had the shots, and we didn't knock 'em down and I felt we were going to get to the lead. We fought every step of the way, though, and no one has to feel bad about every effort that we gave today, we just know it didn't go our way and now we get the rest, we need to move on to the next season. 

 Q. Angel, you got hit hard on the drive to the basket in the second half. Are you injured at all? Is it going to bother you for the NCAA Tournament or are you fine? 
 ANGEL ROBINSON: No, I'll be ready, I wasn't going to let that stop me from playing. Not in the NCAAs.
 COACH MITCHELL: Day in the life of Angel Robinson, she's tough. 
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, ladies. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT