QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 9, 2020
Miomir Kecmanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KECMANOVIC/M. Fucsovics
6-2, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.
Q. Quick work in before the rain could strike?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Yeah, it was pretty good timing. You know, good thing that I was able to finish before this happened.
Q. And you're possibly running into Rublev in the semifinals. Any thoughts on that? Have you played him before?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: I played him a long time ago in juniors, but I haven't played him since then. But, yeah, it would definitely be an exciting match. But, you know, he still has to win today, or probably tomorrow.
But, yeah, I'm definitely looking forward to coming out again and, you know, to playing my best game.
Q. That was a good performance. Can you just give us an idea of what you did in the off-season? I think you were not too far away with Roger Federer for a while, a few days, I think, and how that helped you and maybe how you feel your game has moved on since last season.
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Yeah, I was practicing with Roger and Novak and Karen, too, so it was definitely a good group of guys to practice with.
And I definitely think I've maybe, like, speed up my game a little bit because they take time away for you, you know, so much. And I think I've kind of got a little bit used to it and maybe it's now a little bit easier to play against, you know, some of the other guys.
But it's definitely something I still have to work on and definitely, I think, something that will, if I can, you know, let's say perfect or let's say be my normal game that I could take it far if that happens.
Q. Has it helped coming back to Doha? Do you sort of feel a bit more comfortable in this part of the world because you spent some of the off-season here?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Yeah, definitely it wasn't a big trip. I was in Dubai for a month, so definitely starting to feel at home here.
But, yeah, I'm feeling good. You know, I'm playing good. Hopefully I can keep it up.
Q. A few of the Next Gen players have expressed their unhappiness of not making the ATP Cup. I'm just wondering what are your thoughts on that and not making that player field?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: I mean, sure, it would be good if I made it, but I didn't, so I can't really be mad about it, you know? The guys in front of me are better, so I can't really say anything about it.
But, yeah, definitely I think it's -- maybe for some countries, you know, because, like, the second players and all the rest are, you know, way off the rankings, so maybe they have a bit of advantage, you know, over some of us who are top 100 but can't play.
But I don't know. It just means I have to do better next year I guess. I don't know.
Q. Also about your match today and the conditions. Was that amongst the windiest or how would you call the conditions?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Was there wind today? I don't know. I didn't feel it on court. I actually thought it was perfect today. Like, it wasn't hot. It wasn't windy for me.
I thought it was perfect. You know, up until the rain started, I felt good.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT