QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 8, 2020
Miomir Kecmanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KECMANOVIC/J. Tsonga
7-6, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You know you're being touted as a huge, hot prospect for the future coming. Looking back at the last year, the rise in your rankings, the rise in your stature, what do you have to say? How does it make you feel?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Yeah, it feels good, you know, to be able to play at this level, you know, consistently. Just to be in this environment, it's really special for me.
I've always wanted to be here. I've always wanted to compete at the highest level. And to see it come at such a young age, it's really amazing.
Q. You and Rublev are the two young, very exciting players in this tournament. How do you see the road ahead?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Well, hopefully, you know, I can keep playing good, keep improving, and, you know, the most important, to stay injury-free. You know, hopefully I can do that this year.
And then just try to just give it my all, and hopefully it can be something good.
Q. How would you rate beating Tsonga?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: It was definitely one of my better wins. You know, I've had some exciting wins last year. And to start the year off with such a big name, it's definitely motivating me and giving me a lot more confidence to keep going.
Q. You saved a few set points in the first set. I know you said it was luck, but is it a little bit of just mental toughness and having some experience to back you up a little bit?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Yeah, definitely to not panic in those moments and to kind of, I guess, read where the opponent is going to serve. Because all three times I managed to return the first serve in. And, you know, he was serving pretty good. And it was definitely a mixture of both.
But I'm happy that I was able to stay composed and to be in the moment. And, you know, thankfully, I was to be able win.
Q. I'm sure you've been asked this before, but Novak has done very well here. What is your relationship with him? I know you listed him as your idol.
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Yeah, we're good friends. We practice in Dubai now in the off-season. And he's a really great guy, you know. He's somebody that I have learned a lot from.
And he's definitely a big inspiration back home for everybody, so it's really cool to have somebody like him that you can call your friend and that you're able to talk to him and that he can tell you his advice and his experiences.
So it's pretty cool to have him around.
Q. And are you based in Belgrade?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Kind of. Like, Bradenton, Belgrade, or wherever I can find somebody to practice with.
Q. This is your debut tournament here in Doha. How do you find the atmosphere here?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: It's pretty cool. I like the courts. I like the hotel, the food. Everything is great. And, yeah, I mean, so far I'm enjoying myself.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT