NEXT GEN ATP FINALS
November 5, 2019
Miomir Kecmanovic
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








M. KECMANOVIC/C. Ruud
4-3, 4-3, 4-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Is it more difficult at all to play a good friend, or is it something you're able to separate quite easily when the match starts?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Yeah, it's definitely tough playing him, but we have known each other since we were 12, 13. You know, we practiced a lot. We played a lot. We played doubles even more.
So I think there is -- you know, we've gotten the hang of it. We know that on the court we are professionals, we play for ourselves, and then outside we are good friends.
So I think we have done a good job separating that.
Q. How difficult is to play these kind of tournaments you're not used to?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Yeah, it could be tough. There is a bunch of different rules, and it goes quick. You know, one, two points and the set is over.
But I have had experience playing in this format, playing in United States, World TeamTennis format, so I'm kind of used to it.
I think I like it. I think I thrive in it very well.
Q. What do you like the most, and what do you like the least?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: I think the shorter sets, I like that. I like that it goes quick.
But I don't like, you know, that you have to go for your towel, that they don't bring you. I don't understand that rule, and I absolutely don't like it.
Q. You're the only player to use the Wearable Technology in the match. When you've used it in practice, was there any information in particular that your coach has picked up already and given to you?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Yeah, I have been using it. I actually don't feel it. I like it. I don't know why don't the others wear it.
We haven't talked about it now because we are in the tournament. You know, even if we pick something up, we can't do anything about it now. So I think they are writing it down, and we are going to use it for the off-season.
Q. Was it quick because of the format or because of the surface?
MIOMIR KECMANOVIC: Yeah, the surface is quick. Plus, you know, we both served very well today, so I think that was it, too.
But, yeah, I mean, when you play quicker games, you know, usually you don't lose serve right away. You're usually more focused at the beginning. And I think you don't really have that much time to develop the game and to start maybe feeling a bit of pressure on your serve.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT