TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 9, 2013
Kerry Hyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Kerry, do you remember about the game a year ago?   It was a challenge for you guys defensively? 
KERRY HYDER:   Definitely keeping the quarterback boxed in.   The running game was doing pretty well that game.   They made some big throws down field towards the end of the game.   You know, it was a really intense game.   Three overtimes.   Just one of the most exciting games of the year last year as I remember.

Q.   Which one is bigger to stop, their passing game or their running attack? 
KERRY HYDER:   They were balanced team.   They'll try to beat you deep down field.   They'll try to hit some seams in the running game.   They're a really balanced team, I feel like.   I feel like we have to take one of those away this game and make them one dimensional.

Q.   Which one are you trying to take away?
KERRY HYDER:   Whichever one they give to us.   We're trying to take away all facets of the game.   Of course, stop the run, make them throw it would probably be the best bet for us.

Q.   After you played against them last year, how did you feel at the end of that game? 
KERRY HYDER:   I was exhausted.   Excited that we got the win, so we were excited and exhausted at the same time.   It was my first time being in a game like that, especially that magnitude of being a conference game and it was exciting on all parts.

Q.   Did you notice a change in the atmosphere as well the other night? 
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, it's a Big 12 conference game.   It's always going to change.   It's a conference game, they're picked to win the conference, so it's a big game for both teams.

Q.   (No microphone)? 
KERRY HYDER:   Oh, on the field, oh, well, definitely with the new big screen.   First time playing in front of the home crowd, definitely exciting.   But I expect a bigger crowd to come out this Thursday.   I'm definitely looking forward to this next opening game.

Q.   Does the sound system pump in general when the music plays during the game? 
KERRY HYDER:   Just like practice.   They boom the music at practice.   So once we get on the field, we want to hear the same stuff we're hearing in practice constantly so it kind of makes us feel like we're really at home and this is another day at work.

Q.   Are you going to throw some different looks than you've seen this year so far on defense to hopefully confuse the quarterback? 
KERRY HYDER:   We're going to play Tech football.   We're going to run our defense with whatever Coach Wally feels is the best thing for us.   We'll try to confuse the quarterback and try to get after him.

Q.   Is there such a relief the other night when you finally forced that turnover and got the fumble recovery, do you feel like the flood gates are going to open forcing turnovers?
KERRY HYDER:   Definitely.   You always want to get that first win.   It's just like when you get a sack, you finally got your first win and the other ones are going to start coming along, so just get it started.

Q.   You guys have been kind of vanilla to this point with SMU and SFA as far as the different packages and coverages.   I know you said we're going to play Tech football, but you guys have been pretty vanilla to this point? 
KERRY HYDER:   I wouldn't say that.   That's our game plan.   We come in with that game plan and that's where we're going to run it to the best of our ability.   Whatever our game plan is this week, be it vanilla or something crazy, we'll have something ready for them.

Q.   Are you taking anything from that or going to kind of scrap everything? 
KERRY HYDER:   We got after it quite a bit.   But last year is last year.   We expect a different TCU team.   We expect them to come in excited with a chip on their shoulder after losing last year.   We're expecting a tough team to come in here on Thursday.

Q.   The obvious X‑factor is Trevone Boykin, but can you talk about how B.J. and the run plays?
KERRY HYDER:   They're good guys, you know?   They have a ton of talent all over the field, especially in the skill position.   They have some really explosive guys that can really turn the game.   So we just want to put a hat on everyone and really run to the ball.

Q.   Talk about going up against Coach Glasgow and TCU here one last time for you? 
KERRY HYDER:   It was exciting.   Glasgow's a great guy, so it was nice, you know to have a little competition against each other.   It will be fun to go against him.

Q.   Do you feel like this is a rivalry game? 
KERRY HYDER:   Rivalry game?   Well, being that a lot of players are from the same area, we have a lot of guys from Dallas, a lot of guys from the same areas that played against each other in high school, so, yeah, I would say it's a rivalry.   They've all played against each other growing up.   So I feel like it's kind of a sibling thing.   They played against each other and stuff like that.

Q.   Have you checked into any history or tradition between the two schools?
KERRY HYDER:   Me personally, no, I haven't.   I haven't looked that deep into it.

Q.   Particularly being a senior and everything, do you have any message for the guys with this being a short week to adjust your preparation? 
KERRY HYDER:   They just got to get focused and you really have to put in the work, you know?   Guys really need to take some time off and get your legs back.   But the thing is you really got to get your work in. 
Those guys at TCU, I'm sure they're getting ready too, but you've got to be mentally focused and get your mind right for this game because it's two days earlier than usual.   But you have to get in the cold tub and get your body right for this game.

Q.   What crosses your mind when you think about Micah awe way? 
KERRY HYDER:   He's exciting.   He's a young guy, and he's always excited to play.   I love him, because no matter which day, practice, two‑a‑day, long day, he's always bringing excitement every day.   That's what I love about him. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT