TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 2, 2013
Kerry Hyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   How was the defense on Friday? 
KERRY HYDER:   I felt like we played good.   But we still have some things to clean up.   It's just week one; I feel like we have a lot of growing to do as a defense.

Q.   What was the consensus of players on how the quarterback did in the game? 
KERRY HYDER:   Oh, yeah.   He played great.   The whole team was behind him all the way.   We felt like he had a great opening game.   Just like everyone else, everybody has to get better this week.

Q.   What helps you get so much pressure off the quarterback? 
KERRY HYDER:   Coaches, coaches calling the right plays.   Effort, really coming off the ball, trying to wreak havoc.

Q.   (Indiscernible) close to that every week? 
KERRY HYDER:   Definitely, definitely.   I think we have the guys to constantly put pressure on the quarterback.   We have a lot of different guys that can come in and create pressure.

Q.   What was the plan with the secondary?   Were you guys kind of (Indiscernible)?
KERRY HYDER:   No, I'm a front guy, so I handle the front.   But I felt like the DB did play it well.   We might have given up a couple passes, but that's probably because we didn't get to them fast enough with the D‑line.

Q.   How much did you notice, I guess there are seven (Indiscernible) teams Kansas State, Iowa State, some of those schools (Indiscernible)?   How much are players aware? 
KERRY HYDER:   We're definitely aware.   We know that SFA is going to come out and play hard.   They're going to come out and play the hardest.   So we're not really worried about exactly what they're going to do.   We've got to worry about ourselves and come out and play our game.

Q.   How do you avoid being one of those schools, that gets knocked off by a small school?
KERRY HYDER:   Treat them like a big school.   Prepare the same way like for Oklahoma or Texas.   Prepare the same way each week.

Q.   (Indiscernible) how excited are you to get out here in front of home fans this week? 
KERRY HYDER:   Definitely excited with the new big screen and everything.   We're definitely looking forward to opening up the stadium this week.

Q.   Were you surprised by the performance of your young QB? 
KERRY HYDER:   No, not at all.   He's been doing that to us in practice all week, so I expected him to do it on the field.   He looked great out there.

Q.   How impressive is it considering that he's a guy that just walked in the door just several weeks ago? 
KERRY HYDER:   It's impressive, but you know, we've got confidence in our coaches.   They put him in that position, so we expect him to play well.   He's our guy, and we expect him to do well out there.

Q.   Who had the best sack? 
KERRY HYDER:   Who had the best sack?   There were so many, I'm not sure.   I think everybody did good.   I think everybody was really getting after Garrett all night.   So I guess I've got to give it to the front seven.   We all had some good sacks last night or Friday.

Q.   How was it to see Thierry make that goal line tackle at the very end? 
KERRY HYDER:   That was exciting.   We didn't want to give up any points like that.   I'm glad we played all the way to the end.   All the way till the clock said zero, we were out there playing.

Q.   You probably haven't seen much film on Stephen F. Austin (Indiscernible).   They throw the ball quite a bit.   Just talk about not being familiar with an offense like that? 
KERRY HYDER:   It's good that we getting to against an offense that throws the ball quite a bit in practice every week, so we'll be prepared.   We're used to people throwing the ball around, so it shouldn't be a big adjustment. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT