TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 25, 2013
Kerry Hyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   Kerry, how do you feel coming out of the bye week with your team? 
KERRY HYDER:   I feel good.   I think we needed that week to refocus and really focus on the task at hand.   We kind of lost our swagger, I feel like the last four weeks.   We need to be able to take a step back and recharge ourselves.   It's really going to help us out this week.

Q.   Being from Austin for so many years and watching A&M and Texas play Thanksgiving, what's it mean to you to be on that stage this year? 
KERRY HYDER:   It means a lot.   I remember growing up being with the entire family.   We'd watch the Cowboys game early in the day and wait for later that night for the Texas‑A&M game.   It's crazy that people will be watching me on Thanksgiving night, so I'm definitely looking forward to it.

Q.   What sort of adjustments have you made to try and be a lot tougher?
KERRY HYDER:   Well, just tackling, assignment football, just practicing the little things with football.   The things you kind of forget about toward the end of the season. 
So we just tried to really go back to the basics, be it the steps and how to leverage people and tackle them and tackling drills.   So we just focused on the little things this week.

Q.   Jace said you guys were good on good last week.   Was that good for the defense to do that? 
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, our offense is as potent at anybody's offense in the country.   So to go against that type of competition and practice will definitely help us for the game.

Q.   How badly do you want this to be your final Big 12 game? 
KERRY HYDER:   I definitely want to win it.   But it's not just about going home and getting the W.   But we want to break this losing streak.   We want to have momentum going into the bowl game.   That's what my focus is.   It's not me going home after the last game.   That's not where my head set is right now.

Q.   Is there a better team to break the streak against? 
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, the stage is set up for us.   You can't pick a better stage.   Thanksgiving night in Austin.   Definitely for me growing up five minutes from the stadium, it will definitely be a moment to remember.

Q.   How much family do you have? 
KERRY HYDER:   That depends on my teammates.   I'm trying to get as many tickets as possible, so hopefully my teammates help me out with that this week.

Q.   How important do you think it is to take the crowd out early?   Do you think the crowd is not as much a factor down there? 
KERRY HYDER:   Anytime you go on the road in the Big 12 it's going to be tough.   I think they have 100‑something thousand people.   So it's not going to be quiet no matter how you look at it.   It will be a rowdy crowd, especially Thanksgiving night I expect everybody to come out and fill all the seats.   So when you go into the Big 12, you have to come down on mistakes when you're on the road and try to play mistake‑free football.

Q.   Have you seen a change in the focus of your teammates with the bye week practices and the missed assignments?   You probably don't see them that big into a game, but can you see any difference this week? 
KERRY HYDER:   Definitely.   I guess we always kind of felt like we'll get it done, we'll get it done, and we lost four straight.   So to take a step back and see it's not going to get done in a game unless we handle this in practice.   So just to see the guys step up and really take this to heart and take advantage of this bye week has been good to see.

Q.   Has it been difficult repping in this kind of weather? 
KERRY HYDER:   We've got our work in, being in Lubbock, you know the weather can change within a day.   So haven't really made much change.   We've been able to get good work in even with the snow.

Q.   What have you noticed in past games against Texas with their offense? 
KERRY HYDER:   They've run the ball.   Since I've played them, I played them the last two years, they've tried to run the ball on us and with us giving the run at the past four weeks, I expect them to come out and try to pound us with the run this week.

Q.   Have you noticed anything different about (No microphone)?
KERRY HYDER:   I see more stretch running, outside zone stuff instead of more downhill in the past couple years I've seen.   So I expect them to be more zone and more stretched in this week.

Q.   Coach Brown said last week at the earlier part of the week he was giving the starters some reps to try to rep some of the younger players.   When did they start playing you guys again? 
KERRY HYDER:   It was really the next day or the same day.   He got us some rest to be able to get our legs back.   We have put in a lot of plays this season.   But he didn't really let us‑‑ he let us get our legs back.   But we had to get right back in it and get back in the groove of things.

Q.   Do you know Johnson Gray? 
KERRY HYDER:   Johnson Gray?   I'm not sure.   Whoever is back there, that's who we'll play against.

Q.   (No microphone)?
KERRY HYDER:   No.

Q.   Do you enjoy doing this? 
KERRY HYDER:   I feel I've gotten better every time I've been up here.   I've never been an interview guy.   But the past couple years Blayne has given me more responsibility with this, so this is finally my last Monday press conference.

Q.   Coach given you any advice or tips about Malcolm Brown? 
KERRY HYDER:   Oh, no, he hasn't.   I haven't talked to him about him.   He's a good running back.   I figure all good running backs, you put a hat on them and gang tackle them.   That's how I feel like.   If we swarm to the ball, we'll be able to contain them better.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT