TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
November 4, 2013
Kerry Hyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT






Q.   What was going through your mind when you had the chance to block that punt? 
KERRY HYDER:   We had talked about it all week, and I just said tell them to block it, I'm going to block it.   We got out there and called the block, I ran up there and I said I'm going to try to jump over this here, and I ended up blocking the kick. 
We talked about it all practice.   It's crazy to see it play out on the field.

Q.   So you call a block?   You don't necessarily go for a block? 
KERRY HYDER:   Sometimes we just play safe and sit back and let them punt the ball.   This past week we decided to go for it.

Q.   Can you talk about how the defense is feeling two weeks now to lose like this?   The opponent's running game has really caused you some difficulties? 
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, we realize it's more so what we're doing.   We understand we've got to play better as a D‑line and as a front seven all together.   We're not getting our fits right.   We're not tackling like we used to.   We're not swarming to the ball.   Just overall we've got to step up our rush defense overall.

Q.   K‑State has a tremendous rushing attack, but they also have a pretty good play‑action pass game.   How do you figure that out? 
KERRY HYDER:   We're going to have to play hard on the run and react fast to the play action.   We're getting real hard play action at us and able to get behind some of the secondaries, so as a D‑line we need to recognize play‑action reads and get after the quarterback any chance we get.

Q.   (No microphone) where are you defensively?
KERRY HYDER:   I feel like we have some key plays defensively.   We have guys stepping up.   Coach does a great job making sure we have our legs by the time the game comes.   It was really more playing better technique and knowing our assignments.

Q.   Why don't you think you're tackling as well as you did earlier in the year? 
KERRY HYDER:   We've just got to be able to run at the ball more.   I think earlier in the year we were doing more just swarming to the ball and stuff like that.   We have to do better on that side of the ball.   We're waiting on a guy to make a play.   I feel like earlier in the year we were just swarming trying to beat everybody to the play.   We've got to get back to more Red Raider defense.

Q.   Is there something in practice that you're really focusing on this week? 
KERRY HYDER:   Really tackling.   In practice, we're going to look at the ball carriers, practice putting them in position and put a really good focus on that.   We're giving up too many yards after contact.   We have to make that tackle and stop it right there.

Q.   Did you guys seem like that night just when you guys took the field that night and you're in the tunnel, did everything seem like you were really ready for this last home night game?   Because it didn't seem like you guys were really up.   You seemed kind of flat.   Did you see that as well? 
KERRY HYDER:   No, I felt like we were excited and ready to play.   They got after us a little bit in the beginning.   We fought back.   We fought hard.   That's what I love about this team this year.   In the past we haven't responded well when teams got up on us early.   I felt like our team fought until the very end of the game.

Q.   I think it was Jace that said it after the game on Saturday.   The last two years you guys are 0‑6 against the final three opponents.   How much of a motivating factor is that for you guys?
KERRY HYDER:   We want to finish strong especially going into the bowl game.   We definitely want to get some wins up under us.   We've lost two in a row right now, but we have an opportunity this week to go 1‑0.   So that's what our main focus is.

Q.   Is there any decline in the level of confidence that you all have in yourselves and as a team? 
KERRY HYDER:   Oh, no.   We believe what we can do.   We haven't played well on all three sides of the ball yet.   It's been up and down.   The offense played well, the defense hasn't played well.   The special teams didn't play well, the offense and defense played well.   So we feel like we haven't put our best game together yet.   We're going to do our best to focus on that this week and try to hit on all three phases of the ball this week.

Q.   You've lost the last two games and you won the first seven.   It's an intangible thing, confidence.   Is there any sort of‑‑ not a doubt, but is there like, gosh, even though why didn't we play as well these last two games? 
KERRY HYDER:   I don't feel that from any of the players in the locker room.   I don't feel like we've lost any confidence.   We know what we're capable of.   We need guys to step up and play up to the level they're capable of.

Q.   What does Senior Day mean to you? 
KERRY HYDER:   It means a lot.   Man, I've enjoyed every minute I've been here.   Being this is my last time I get to be in front of the fans in Jones Stadium, it's an emotional time for me.   I feel like this is a second home to me.   Just pretty much putting the wrap‑up on my career here.   I'll definitely be looking forward to this weekend.

Q.   I remember one time when you stepped up for seniors.   Talk about how important it is for these young guys to step up for you in this particular game? 
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, I just remember the seniors when I came in they were always telling me not to take any days for granted and stuff like that and to enjoy my time here.   I remember when Brian Duncan was here on his Senior Day and stuff like that.   We wanted to make sure we went out with a win for them.   Make sure that they go out on the right page.   They gave so much to this university.   On their last day, we want to make it a memorable one for them.

Q.   What's this last five years been like for you compared to what you expected when you first came in?
KERRY HYDER:   It's pretty much everything I expected.   Nobody expects to have five different coordinators on defense, but overall I felt like I committed to this place.   I felt like it was family and another home.   They've shown me nothing but love since I've been here.   I love Lubbock.

Q.   Have you had one specific memory during your time here that sticks out as one of your favorite or couple favorite memories you have? 
KERRY HYDER:   I've got to say I think it would be Missouri here a couple years ago when they had Blaine Gabbert.   I didn't play a lot that game, but seeing the excitement around the stadium.   It was the first time I'd seen the experience where people rushed the field and stuff.   A year ago I got to experience it myself when we beat West Virginia and they rushed the field.   Just being part of that and seeing the passion of the fans being able to jump the fence and rush the field.   That is an amazing moment.

Q.   Do you think you guys are trying to do too much or maybe trying to do your job plus somebody else's? 
KERRY HYDER:   I think that speaks to it a little bit because earlier in the season we were stopping the run.   I think that has to do with us popping gaps and not trusting the guy next to you.   So I feel like we have to believe in the guy next to you and know he's going to be there for you and make that tackle.   We're trying to do other people's jobs.   We need to focus on our job and do what you need to do, everything will come together.

Q.   (No microphone) how much more difficult does that make it? 
KERRY HYDER:   It's always difficult when the quarterback can run or throw the ball.   That's two things you have to worry about.   But if we're able to swarm to the ball and put hits on the quarterback, we can kind of take away some of that running.   Make it difficult for them and make them earn every yard.

Q.   What have you noticed each time you've played Bill Snyder's Kansas State team? 
KERRY HYDER:   They're disciplined.   They don't make many mistakes.   They're going to ground and pound and do what they do.   They're not going to change who they are.   They are going to grind it out and make you make a mistake, and they're going to hit you with it every time you make a mistake.

Q.   What have you seen from this team that's different from teams in years past that could change this year? 
KERRY HYDER:   I think the fight I've seen.   There have been times we've been down, and this team never quits.   This team has a lot of fight in them, and I expect to see that this weekend. 
We've got to play the next play, the next week.   That's behind us now.   We're focused on going 1‑0.   That's all our energy is going into.   We're not worried about the next week or anything like that.   We're going to put all our focus into it this week.

Q.   Going back to what you're saying about trusting your teammates.   There are obviously some injury problems.   You could be missing your two safeties, an outside linebacker and defensive tackle.   Does it get harder when you have to fill in with players who wouldn't be starting otherwise? 
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, it's hard to replace those guys in game experience and being on the field.   It's hard to replace them.   But we have guys that are capable and can step up and make plays.   We expect them to fill in and keep it rolling.   We don't expect a dropoff.   We expect them to come in, know the plays and get it done. 
Our motto is no excuses.   So guys being hurt, that's no excuse.   We have to come out there and get it done.

Q.   But you do have that trust with the starters, and then somebody goes down and the next line comes up.   Is it difficult to have that same level of trust? 
KERRY HYDER:   That is the thing.   We don't just build trust with one group out there.   We're all out there grinding every day, putting in the same amount of work.   We're not‑‑ the same way I trust the starters, I trust the back‑up.   There is no difference in it.   So when you say starter, that is just‑‑ that is just whose name is there.   Because anybody can be a starter when any play comes up. 





END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT