TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 21, 2013
Kerry Hyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Can you talk about how Coach Kingsbury's confidence in himself personally and then his team really carries over and gives you guys the same kind of confidence?   
KERRY HYDER:   Definitely.   He brings, like Jace was saying bringing new energy to the team, the University and the community so far since he's been here.   That fire he brings, that confidence, it rubs off on the entire team.   You know, we want to‑‑ we are as our leader is.   We reflect his attitude and try to portray that on the field.  
   
 Q.   Getting back to 2011, what was that feeling like beating him on his own field like that?   Is that something you draw as a core of the team back there?   
KERRY HYDER:   Definitely a good win.   But if you remember, we didn't finish too high after that.   We take it one week at a time, and we look forward to the challenge of going up there and getting the win.   We know the tougher environment, that's why this past week was so crucial for us being able to get a road win like that.   So we definitely got some confidence brewing and we want to go in there and get a win.  
   
 Q.   What changed for you on Saturday?   I mean, they were involved down the field, and then nothing through the fourth quarter.   What was the difference?   
KERRY HYDER:   You know, they made adjustments; we made adjustments and came together as a defense.   We said no more.   That hasn't been our make‑up this year.   People have been able to move the big field on us.   So going into the second part of the game we just put our foot down.   We were tired of giving up some yards and we just had to make plays.   Because the offense was moving the ball and this is the first time we weren't able to stop them constantly.   So after we finally got it together, we were able to stop them.  
   
 Q.   Have you heard anything about Coach Kingsbury's old team in '02 and 2008?   They had a chance to win the conference that year and things didn't work out in Norman?  
KERRY HYDER:   I haven't heard too much about it.   But I do remember that year when they lost.   I was being recruited that year, and I was committed and I was trying to get that win too.   So looking back on it, we definitely want to not go back on that and try to change history this time.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
KERRY HYDER:   I watched it on TV.  
   
 Q.   What was that like?   
KERRY HYDER:   It definitely hurt.   I definitely wanted to get that win back then.   It was a tough loss for everyone involved.  
   
 Q.   So you could look at West Virginia and tell players what to expect in Oklahoma?   Kind of talk about what you kind of tell the defense?   
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, pretty much the same thing.   They're going to be quiet when they're on the field and we're on the field.   And going to be extremely rowdy for the offense.   And go on the road and you've got to play good defense, good special teams and stuff like that.   So we're definitely going to try to press them this week.   I'm going to try to tell the guys it's going to be a tough environment.   The crowd's going to be rowdy, but we've got to be the rock.   We've got to play good on defense because if the offense can't get going or whatever, the defense has to be there to be that safety net.  
   
 Q.   Does the experience of your coach and the experience of Stoops, how do you see that?   Stoops has been doing this for years.   This is Kliff's first year as a head coach.   How do you think that matches up this week?   
KERRY HYDER:   Well, no disrespect to Coach Stoops, but I've got a great coach over here.   I feel like he's prepared in all aspects of the game to be ready for this type of game.   I know Kliff is going to have a great game plan ready for us, and he'll have us fired up for the game.  
   
 Q.   Has it been annoying or frustrating that people have said since y'all beat TCU that you could go 7‑0 and the buck will stop with Oklahoma?  
KERRY HYDER:   We try not to worry about what other people are saying outside of this building.   People have been having us on upset alert all year.   It's nothing new to us.   We're going to go out there.   We're not going to change what we do.   We're going to work hard each day, get better each day and prepare for this game, doesn't matter who we're playing.  
   
 Q.   Do you take it personally?   
KERRY HYDER:   Anytime you take a stab at my University, my players, anything like that, I definitely take it personally.   Being that I bleed Texas Tech, I take everything to heart.  
   
 Q.   You guys are flying really high right now, 7‑0; how do you guys not get too up or too down, but stay even keel with everything that's going on right now?   
KERRY HYDER:   We haven't reached our goal yet.   7‑0 is not our goal.   Our goal is to win a Big 12 Championship, whenever we get that done, that's when we'll relax.  
   
 Q.   What have you noticed of the differences between Blake Bell and (Inaudible).   Do you notice any difference between the two?   
KERRY HYDER:   I know Blake Bell is more of a runner.   I know he's going to be a bruiser and try to get some of those short yardage situations and stuff like that and try to run the ball.   So we definitely want to try to take that away from him and get him to throw the ball a little more.  
   
 Q.   Talking about Jace Amaro, seeing plays like West Virginia dragging people, how does that spark the defense for you guys?   
KERRY HYDER:   He's just excited.   We see him down there making big‑time catches, making big‑time plays.   It gets us fired up because we know we weren't doing too well at the beginning of the game.   Just seeing Jace with that fight and that fire and not willing to give it up, it just lit a fire to the defense.   We were able to stop the little spill he was having.  
   
 Q.   Can you speak to Oklahoma's (Inaudible)?  
KERRY HYDER:   They've the guy really good offensive line.   A great core.   I believe the center's name is Gabe, I'm not sure of his full name, but he's a real great player.   I expect them to come out and be physical just like they always are.   They're a real good group of guys, I feel like.   We have a challenge this week.   We have to get better on the D‑line.  
   
 Q.   How much different do they look this year compared to last, because they run the ball a lot more.   
KERRY HYDER:   They're not going to change who they are.   OU's going to run the ball and try to hit us on some play action things and stuff like that.   But I don't really see too much of a difference.   They've got some of the same type of guys there in the same positions.  
   
 Q.   You're not satisfied, obviously.   But statistically do you feel you played better this year than last year?   
KERRY HYDER:   I feel like we're in a good spot.   But like you said, I've left a lot of plays out there on the field, I feel like.   I feel like I could have already hit my numbers already that I hit last year.   I'm actually disappointed right now in my play so far.   I feel like I can do much better in the second part of the season.  
   
 Q.   What is the key to stopping (Inaudible)?  
KERRY HYDER:   As a defense we've got to control the line of scrimmage.   We've got to go play technique and sound football.   We can't get knocked out of gas.   We can't get the blitzes in the wrong hold or something like that.   We've got to be ready on all facets of the defense.  
   
 Q.   What kind of unique challenge does Bell provide as a quarterback because of his height and his bulk?  
KERRY HYDER:   Definitely have to gang tackle him.   He's a big guy and he's not going to go down easy.   We've been playing some smaller quarterbacks this past week.   I feel like he's going to challenge us in the run game.   He'll be able to make some plays with his arm if we're not able to shut down one of them.  
   
 Q.   Have you been surprised that they passed as little as they have this year compared to last year?   
KERRY HYDER:   It's different personnel.   They've got Blake Bell back there, and he's more of a runner than he is a thrower.   The past couple of years they had Landry Jones or somebody back there to throw the ball around.   So I feel like they change what they're good at, and right now they're good at running the ball.  
   
 Q.   As you guys bounce back from the early struggles of the game, just talk about how you finished so strongly in the fourth quarter to put the game away like you did?   
KERRY HYDER:   It really goes to the defense.   You know, myself, Terrance Bullitt, Will Smith, those guys.   We understood we weren't playing well up to that point and something needed to change.   We brought the guys up and let them know this is not championship defense.   If we want to be a championship defense, we've got to be able to make plays like this.   We've got to win games in these type of environments.  
   
 Q.   How much did (Inaudible) play in that part in the fourth quarter?   It seemed like you were fresh and able to go out and do what you needed to do?  
KERRY HYDER:   Coach Dennis has a great summer program.   We were ready for the fourth quarter.   We get better as the game goes on.   We keep getting stronger, the team was getting tired that we were playing against.   We're still fresh.   It also goes to the depth we have.   We have guys that can come in and give guys breaks.   Make sure we have those fresh legs in the fourth quarter.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT