TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
October 7, 2013
Kerry Hyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   Looking at the tape, what impressed you most about the guys on Saturday?   
KERRY HYDER:   Just really our resiliency.   We gave up a touchdown on the second drive.   We were down ten points and we just went to the sideline and nobody was worried.   Just the look on everyone's faces, we came right back out and put some good drives together.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about what you all are going to face this weekend?   Iowa State coming off a really tough loss.   Going down to the wire.   Does it sort of share your sentiments about how excited they might be?   
KERRY HYDER:   Iowa State always comes fired up.   It's never an easy game by any means.   They always come out ready to play.   So I expect them to come out with a chip on their shoulders as usual.  
   
 Q.   Along those same lines, last time they were here obviously a tough game after you guys had just beaten them.   What do you remember most about that game?   
KERRY HYDER:   I just remember them getting up on us and us not being able to do anything about it, just kept scoring and we weren't able to stop them on defense.   Last year was a big thing for us to beat them, because they had beaten us the past two years, so we were trying to keep the winning going.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, I seen a little bit of the game.   They played well.   The quarterback seems to be really mobile.   That's something we've got to think about going into the game.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
KERRY HYDER:   I mean, they run hard.   I heard some good things about the backs.   We've got to do what we've been doing, flying around to the ball, all 11 guys on every play.   We should be able to bottle it up.  
   
 Q.   You guys dominated this year.   What's going into that, and what do you have to do to keep that goal?   
KERRY HYDER:   We've just got to be relentless and continue to work.   I felt like we still haven't played our best yet.   We've put together some good games, but I felt like as an entire group, we've still got some steps to make.   Everyone's doing their part.   We've got a nice mixture of old and young guys, we're out doing our part.  
   
 Q.   You feel the defense building confidence each week just based on the results you guys have been posting?   
KERRY HYDER:   I really feel it on every drive.   We're going out there and we just know we're going to stop people.   We can feel it.   It's an energy now.   No matter where the ball is at, we feel like we can go out there and play defense and get it back for the offense.  
   
 Q.   After that first quarter when you all stopped and just drive after drive after drive, inside the building, did you feel it?   Can you describe what you all felt and what you all are talking about?   
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, we felt it on the sideline beforehand.   We knew they were up on us, but by no means did we feel we were out of the game in any way.   We just felt we had to settle down, come out, get some stops.   We start playing great after that second drive.  
   
 Q.   Being down 10‑0, obviously you guys were down 20‑0 a few years ago.   Did that play into your thinking at all that hey, we've been here. We can do this?   
KERRY HYDER: Yeah, definitely.   I believe they were up 21‑0 on us before.   They always come out hot it seems like.   We have to buckle down and get stuff handled.  
   
 Q.   The defense has nine sacks and two conference games.   14 sacks overall.   Is there an extra energy that you get at each conference game?   
KERRY HYDER:   You know, you've always got to up your level when you get into Big 12 play.   As a defensive line and linebackers, we're competing with each other.   We want to see who gets the most sacks at the end of the year.   I believe right now the linebackers are leading us.   So the D‑line, we've got some work to do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT