TEXAS TECH UNIVERSITY MEDIA CONFERENCE
September 30, 2013
Kerry Hyder
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
 Q.   I think I kind of jinxed you when we talked about the scoop and score a couple weeks ago, and then you got the scoop.   We all kind of took it from you on that one.   Can you talk about the defense?   
KERRY HYDER:   We've been playing great.   We've been flying to the ball, and we'll try to keep that up every week.  
   
 Q.   You feel you're happy with what you got in this bye week?   
KERRY HYDER:   Definitely.   It felt like a normal week for us.   We got the same amount of work in, and we definitely got better this week.  
   
 Q.   These last two games against KU being 11 a.m. kickoffs, you guys struggled a little bit.   Is there something about it as a player that makes it a little more difficult to get ready for that?   
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, you have to get up earlier.   But give KU credit.   They come out every year ready to play, and it's usually a tough game, so we're definitely looking forward to it.  
   
 Q.   Where have you guys gotten better, do you think?   
KERRY HYDER:   Pretty all around.   I feel like everybody came to practice not thinking it was a day off, just came in and tried to get better.   Some people, some teams take a bye week as a week off.   But I felt like we came in and got better as a group.  
   
 Q.   Can you talk about that Kansas run game that obviously they ran the ball pretty well against you guys last year?   
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, I think it was 390 they ran for last year, and the coaches don't let us forget it.   We've been thinking about it the past week, and it will not be a replay of last year.  
   
 Q.   (No microphone)?  
KERRY HYDER:   It's really X's and O's, because we were there to make the plays last year.   We just might have fit a gap wrong or, you know, I felt like we didn't play as bad as it was on paper last year.   We gave up some big runs, and you know, I think it was with three overtime game or something like that.   There were a lot of extra yards on the end of that, but we're definitely going to have a better game plan going into this year.  
   
 Q.   You guys going into an atmosphere like Kansas where it's an early kickoff and may not be a ton of fans there, do you guys take it upon yourself to create some energy early on?   
KERRY HYDER:   Yeah, definitely.   We're always going to play excited.   That's celebrating on all plays, third down stops, big hits, and just cheering each other on.   The offense can cheer for the defense, the defense cheers for the offense, and we try to create our own energy out there.  
   
 Q.   Do you think it will be easier to create some energy now that you've been off the field for two weeks?   
KERRY HYDER:   Oh, definitely.   With that week off, it definitely rejuvenated us and we have a long stretch ahead of us.   But we needed that week off to get our legs back and prepare for this long run.  
   
 Q.   Had you how did you spend your Saturday?   
KERRY HYDER:   I hung out with teammates.   We just got together, chilled out and played video games, watched some football.   Just enjoyed it.   We had practice early that morning also, so we got up pretty early for that.  
   
 Q.   After practice, did you watch Oklahoma State get dumped by West Virginia?   
KERRY HYDER:   I watched a little bit of that game.   It was a good game.  
   
 Q.   What was your take on it?   
KERRY HYDER:   Both good teams.   I'm looking forward to playing both of them.  
   
 Q.   What does it say about life on the road in the Big 12?   It was a game Oklahoma State thought they should win, but it's tough to go on the road.   It kind of sends a message this week you guys going to Kansas?  
KERRY HYDER:   Playing in the Big 12, I always felt any team can beat anybody on any day.   I don't feel like we've got guaranteed wins nowhere.   You've got to come out and play your best every week, and that's what we're going to do.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT