NBA ALL-STAR WEEKEND
February 15, 2013
Tyson Chandler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   What do you think about James Harden's beard?  
TYSON CHANDLER:   Well, my beard doesn't even come close to his.   I'm just growing mine out.   I don't how long mine's going to last.   His is there and it's there thick.   
   
 Q.   How do you like the beard?  
TYSON CHANDLER:   I like it.   It's a strong beard.   It ain't a weak beard.   The one thing about beards is sleeping, it gets in your nose and your face and that ain't cool.   
   
 Q.   (Inaudible)?  
TYSON CHANDLER:   Might be a long time.   
   
 Q.   What's the best part of the All‑Star Weekend?   
TYSON CHANDLER:   Being amongst my peers, that's the thing that I enjoy so much about USA Basketball, you get the opportunity to play with LeBron James and Carmelo and young stars, D Wade, and obviously the whole team are stars.   But you get an opportunity to play with great players like that.   If you love the game, there's nothing better.  
   
 Q.   (Inaudible).   
TYSON CHANDLER:   You know, it doesn't until I'm asked the question or until I'm actually sitting around and I'm talking to a family member or a friend and I'm like, I won a gold medal.   It's actually ‑‑ I think growing up as a kid, especially as an athlete, a basketball player, you watched the Dream Team.   That's the 12 best players to ever do it.   And so, you know, to be able to achieve that goal, it's great.   
   
 Q.   Do people look at you differently now?  
TYSON CHANDLER:   Absolutely.   Absolutely.   Michael Jordan's conversation about how you rate the best players and that sort of stuff, I think now being able to win a championship, win a gold medal, and being able to accomplish some of the things that great players accomplish, you definitely are looked at differently.  
   
 Q.   How is it to have this defense in front of you that you control?  
TYSON CHANDLER:   It's a big responsibility.   I know every night I've got to man my team and prepare for whoever our opponent is.   And there's no nights off for me, because my team thrives off of my energy.   
   
 Q.   How do you keep Carmelo in line?   It looked like you made him play at a level that he's never played at before.   
TYSON CHANDLER:   You know, Melo is such an incredible player.   I just let him know that if you want to accomplish what I know you want to accomplish, we've got to do it above the rim.   And I'm here to lean on you offensively, and you can lean on me defensively, but together we've got to do it.   
   
 Q.   How about having the kind of sixth man you have, what has he meant to the team?  
TYSON CHANDLER:   It's meant a lot to have JR.   JR is a character.   That's an art in the game that should really be recognized.   You can go on and on, having a sixth man like that really is a starter that isn't really a sixth man, that can come off the base and give you scoring, makes the team.   And that piece, that secret weapon, ultimately, a lot of times, shapes ‑‑ shapes how far a team is going to go.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT