NBA WESTERN CONFERENCE FINALS: THUNDER v MAVERICKS
May 18, 2011
Tyson Chandler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. Just talk about first of all Dirk's performance last night and what it's like for you as a teammate to watch him have a performance like that.   
 TYSON CHANDLER: It was incredible watching him get in the rhythm he was able to get in. I've seen him get in the zone before, but the guy is really focused right now.  
  
  Q. Talk about how being a defender against him is kind of like being on an island.   
 TYSON CHANDLER: You know, at times when I've been sitting there watching him, I can imagine what's been going through their head. They're pretty much defenseless. You try to take away his options, try to get on him. He ripped through, he got fouled, he backed up, took jump shots.   
  
  Q. If they adjust and probably double, what do you guys need to keep in mind?   
 TYSON CHANDLER: Yeah, our spacing with our shooters. That's where the trouble comes in, when you try to double. We've got shooters. We've got some of the best in the game. Our shooters will be lined up waiting for the opportunity.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)   
 TYSON CHANDLER: Yeah, our shooters didn't get as many shots as they did in the first couple series last night because Dirk just was going off so much, but I expect them to get some more shots.  
  
  Q. In what ways is Dirk a different basketball player now than he was?  
 TYSON CHANDLER: You know, his focus right now. I feel like he understands his opportunity, and he wants to get back. He had a taste when he lost in The Finals, and it seems like the man is just possessed and focused on getting back there.   
  
  Q. (Inaudible.)   
 TYSON CHANDLER: He's not settling. He's going to the rim, and what he's doing is he's keeping the defender at bay.   
  
  Q. Would you have been the best defender against him?  
 TYSON CHANDLER: Oh, yeah. He'd better be glad that I'm on his team. I'm just kidding. I couldn't do nothing with that, either.  
  
  Q. Does Dirk have a level of humility that allows him to be assertive without being selfish?  
 TYSON CHANDLER: Yeah, he's a pure basketball player. He understands when guys come out and double him, he gets rid of the ball. When he's singled or in an isolated situation, you can tell. He's well rounded. He's not selfish at all. He just plays basketball and lets the game dictate how far he goes off.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT