NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 6, 2011
Tyson Chandler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT









   TYSON CHANDLER: We have to respect the floor. Right now they are loading up on Dirk. They are double-teaming him. We have to do a better job of getting opportunities and making things a little more easier. 

 Q. (Indiscernible). 
 TYSON CHANDLER: This is a team that attacks the paint and they rely on their athleticism. They overplay plays, they deny things, we have to take advantage of the situations. 

 Q. How much are the early deficits killing you guys, playing behind the eight ball? 
 TYSON CHANDLER: You can't play always catch-up with this team. They're a dangerous team. They get out and get easy buckets, which makes it difficult. At some point we're going to have to put together runs and make them fight back. 

 Q. How much have those turnovers hurt? You throw the ball and all of a sudden you look up and they're dunking? 
 TYSON CHANDLER: That's one thing you can't do against this team. You cannot turn it over. They're so athletic and they're probably the best team in finishing off turnovers. You turn the ball over, you might as well give them two points. 

 Q. Are you confident your bench can bounce back from what has been for them a subpar series thus far? 
 TYSON CHANDLER: Yes, I think we just have to find our rhythm. There hasn't been one game in this season where -- we've played in spurts and patches. We have yet to put together a full game of Mavericks basketball. Right now we're playing Heat-style basketball. We have to turn the table so it goes in our favor. 

 Q. How much do you guys miss Haywood? 
 TYSON CHANDLER: We missed him. I feel like we had our opportunities. When you look at the tape, we had our opportunities to make them pay and we didn't. They capitalized on those opportunities. That's the reason they won the game. You have to give them credit for what they were able to accomplish out there defensively holding us to 86 points. We have to find a way to make it easier on ourselves. 

 Q. It's a must-win game tomorrow night? 
 TYSON CHANDLER: Definitely. It's a must-win game. We have to give ourselves an opportunity to go to their place and get a win. Your don't want to be playing from behind. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT