NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
June 4, 2011
Tyson Chandler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







 Q. Tyson, does it feel good to be back home? 
 TYSON CHANDLER: Definitely feels good to be back home. Being on the road, living out of suitcases. Playing against their crowd, you know it's tough. It's good to be home, get some home cooking. 

 Q. No doubt Miami, good energy in that building. Now they have to put up with your energy. What is it going to be like for them? 
 TYSON CHANDLER: It's going to be crazy. It's tough when you're playing in an opposing stadium. The crowd is loud and you can't hear the plays. I totally expect our crowd to be up, into it when we're on defense. Making it tough for them to hear their plays. 

 Q. You had some magic in the fourth quarter obviously coming back from a big deficit. What do you have to do to sustain that for the entire game? 
 TYSON CHANDLER: We had a nice run going into halftime. Then we made some mental mistakes, some breakdowns defensively, got some fouls and sent them to the free-throw line way too many times and they were able to close the gap. Tomorrow we have to do a better job closing out the half. 

 Q. Talk about Dirk. How is he feeling? 
 TYSON CHANDLER: He's feeling and looking good. He's focused right now. He understands it's a tight series, and we have the opportunity to go up. So we're definitely looking to take control. 

 Q. You guys are looking to close it out on your home court. It's not going to be easy. What do you think you can do to give your fans here a championship on your home court? 
 TYSON CHANDLER: Most importantly we have to take it game by game. Tough matchups. We have to focus on winning the games. If we get too far ahead of ourselves, we'll have a mental lapse. We'll take it game by game. 

 Q. Can you talk about the importance of playing at home. 
 TYSON CHANDLER: It's huge to be back home. When we were in Miami, we had tough time communicating with our play-calling. Now they have to deal with that. They have to deal with our fans, on defense screaming and making it tough for them to hear calls out there. 

 Q. Were you surprised that Bosh was one-on-one on Dirk? 
 TYSON CHANDLER: It looked like they had a miscommunication on Haslem and Bosh. I don't know if the miscommunication was who was going to guard him or if they were doubling. But once Dirk turned the corner, I knew he was going to score. 






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT