NBA FINALS: MAVERICKS v HEAT
May 30, 2011
Tyson Chandler
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
  Q. What's the most important thing about playing for Team USA this past summer?   
 TYSON CHANDLER: It was one of those situations where I had the opportunity to get out and play. When you have an injury and you suffer an injury the way I did, you don't have confidence until you're able to go through a certain amount of time, that kind of proves to you, okay, I can trust it. When I went out there with the USA team, that was kind of my trial and error. I competed at a high level, because it's not like -- when you're working out individually on your own in the summer, you kind of go at your own pace. If you feel anything, you kind of slow up. When you're in training camp running up and down with Russell Westbrook and Kevin Durant and Derrick Rose, there's no slowing. They are not going to let you slow down.   
  
  Q. Did you think your career was in jeopardy?   
 TYSON CHANDLER: I didn't think my career was in jeopardy. I didn't know how long it was going to take. The doctors told me when I injured it, it was going to take a year. But obviously as an athlete, I thought I can be back in three months, I can be back in four months. That's where mentally it starts to affect you. Because it wasn't three or four months. It was actually a year.   
  
  Q. Do you think a lot of people feel that this series on paper doesn't even look like a close matchup?   
 TYSON CHANDLER: No, I don't feel that way, because they've said that every series. The Portland Trail Blazers, that was a team that was going to be too rugged, too disciplined and knock us out. In the Laker series, that was a team with too much experience. No way we were going to knock out the back-to-back champs; we swept them. In the Oklahoma City series, a young team running and gunning. They may be too much for us. We all know what happened there.   
  
  Q. And this test is no different to you guys?   
 TYSON CHANDLER: No, it's not at all.   
   
    
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT