NL DIVISION SERIES: DIAMONDBACKS VS DODGERS
October 5, 2017
Clayton Kershaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  How would you describe your mental approach coming into the postseason this year as opposed to other years?  Has it changed at all?  And the demeanor in the room, is there a different sense of urgency this year?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Same approach and same demeanor, probably, yeah.  Just trying to win 11 games.   
 Q.  A little follow up on that?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, absolutely.   
 Q.  As far as the room is concerned, you had such a fantastic season though.  Is there any concern at all that you're going to try too hard or how do you approach that?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: No, I don't think so.  I think, yeah, we did win a lot of games this year, no doubt.  But I don't think anybody cares about that anymore.  So Diamondbacks had a great year too.  They won a lot of games.  So it's a race to the first of three and then move on from there.   
 Q.  Did you have a chance to watch that game last night and do you think it's a significant advantage that they were forced to bring in Robbie Ray in that game?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, I watched.  I watched the first like five innings, I think.  I guess I stopped watching when it got good.   
Yeah, I mean, Zack and Robbie have been their guys the whole year.  They've had a lot of -- their starting rotation has been great.  So they don't have necessarily a weakness there by any meanings.  But Zack and Robbie have been their one, two.  So for both of them to have to pitch later in the series, that doesn't hurt us, for sure.   
 Q.  Dave said, I guess, the plan is for you to not go on short rest if you need Game 4.  That's a thing that the organization has said before and you still kind of prepare just in case things change.  Is it the same approach to prepare in case it changes or are you planning on not going on short rest?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I'm planning on pitching tomorrow.  I think that's the most important thing for me is to just focus on tomorrow.  Usually how that stuff happens is when Game 4 rolls around, things change.  But it really sounds like that's not going to happen this year.  But I'll worry about that when it happens.  But for now, I'm just going to try to get him out tomorrow.   
 Q.  I'm not sure how you feel about this, but it seems like this year at least you have that proverbial ace in the hole with Alex Wood having to go on Game 4 instead of having to force you to pitch on short rest, perhaps not having that arm in the past.  How much of a luxury is that to know that Alex could go for four?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, we've got a lot of depth.  We've said that depth is a key word around here in Dodger Stadium.  We have with Rich, and now Yu, and Woody, and Hyun-Jin and Kenta, we've got plenty of depth.  It's a decision up to Doc to ask everybody else who they want to pitch when.   
 Q.  This is a unique situation where you've seen a team that you know so well.  What are the advantages and disadvantages of facing a team that you know so well?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, there are no secrets, for sure.  I think when it comes down to it, you just go out there and try to compete and just be better than them.  You're not going to outthink them.  You're not going to out this or that.  They know what you do.  I know what they do.  At the end of the day, you have to go out there and compete.  It's a good lineup out there, with JD and what he's done over there the last two months has been pretty incredible.   
So we definitely have our work cut out for us as a staff.  But we like where we're at too.   
 Q.  Done this a lot in the postseason throughout your career.  What have you learned in the past that you take with you now into this start?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I know what to expect, I guess, which is always a good thing.  But other than that, I think every situation is different and every year is a little bit unique as far as who we face and how our team sizes up.  But thankful for another opportunity.  It doesn't happen often when your team wins five in a row.  It doesn't happen when you getting to to the playoffs that often.  I don't feel like I take it for granted, but definitely not trying to do that this year either.   
 Q.  Are you surprised to see so many great starting pitchers in these Wild Card games get knocked out early?  Is there something that you attribute that to?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: That's a good question.  I don't know.  I haven't really thought about it.  But, yeah, watching that Yankee game and then the Diamondback-Rockies game last night, yeah, just maybe just really good hitting teams.  Guys with off nights.  I don't really know how to explain it other than, yeah, maybe just some good hitting, I guess.  I don't know.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT