MLB WORLD SERIES: DODGERS VS RED SOX
October 28, 2018
Clayton Kershaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
Red Sox - 5    Dodgers - 1   
 Q.  What are your emotions right now?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Disappointed.  Yeah, just disappointed, I think.  There's only one team that can win and we know that but it just hurts worse when you make it all the way and get second place.  So having done that two years in a row now, it doesn't make it any easier.  And I'm proud to be part of a group that did get to go to the World Series two years in a row.  Proud of that.  Proud of what we were able to accomplish this year as a team.  And anytime you lose the last game when you're in the playoffs, it's no fun.   
So, yeah, just some disappointment right now for sure.   
 Q.  Assuming that you return to the Dodgers next season, what do you believe this team needs to win the World Series?  Any particular areas where you think it might improve?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: They're a great team.  I think what we were able to do in there this year, all those guys, we had so much depth at every single position.  I don't know, to answer your question.  I'm not sure what -- I'm not sure what there is to be done.  I think it's a little too early to think about all of that stuff, honestly.  But I think you have to realize that we are a really good team to get to go to the World Series two years in a row.  It might not be a personnel thing, it might just be a play better thing.   
 Q.  This is a little back doorway of asking this, but would you prefer to stay here and get this job done?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Look, you know, I know the future questions are obviously coming for myself.  I don't want to take away from tonight, obviously, and what everybody is feeling.  I never want to put the focus just on me or anything like that.  This was a tough one for us tonight, it really was.  Myself, personally, you know, it was tough.  David pitched a great game and I got outpitched and we lost the game.  I've got three days now to think about all of that stuff before anything happens.  And so it will be an eventful three days for me, and I'll try to figure it out.   
 Q.  Dave just told us that you have to tip your cap to the Red Sox, and they're a big reason why sometimes things don't work out for you guys is they executed.  How much of a margin of error do you have when you're facing a lineup like that, did that come out tonight?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, you have to give credit to the Red Sox.  They're a great team.  They won, I think, 108 games in the regular season.  They beat two teams that also won a hundred games in the postseason.  And then beat us four games to one.  So they're a great team, obviously.  They have a lot of depth up and down the lineup.  You saw guys, their starters out of the bullpen starting, short rest, whatever they did, their bullpen guys throwing the ball great.  They're a great team.   
So not a lot of margin for error, to answer your question.  I made a few mistakes tonight and sometimes you just wish they'd find a gap or find a single or something like that.  And they went over the fence tonight.  That's the story of the game.   
 Q.  The first inning there how were you feeling?  What was the adjustment that you made because the next handful innings went pretty smoothly for you.  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Obviously the first inning, Pearce put a pretty good swing on the ball.  But the one that hurt was the Benintendi single.  0-2 and you've got to get that slider in the dirt.  He didn't hit it that hard, but he shouldn't be able to make contact on a 0-2 slider.  I left that one up.  That's what cost you.  The solo homer in the first, you can deal with that one, one run.  And exactly what David did, he gave up one in the first and shut them down after that.   
I tried to keep it at two as best I could.  And then the homers got to me there at the end.  Not a whole lot of adjustment, just some bad pitches in there.   
 Q.  Just to clarify, your understanding is you have three days to make the decision?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, I think I said ten earlier, a month or so ago, but found out it's three.   
 Q.  It's not five?  I've heard five also.  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I'm fairly confident I have three days.  It was confirmed to me.  So I think I have three days is the opt-out window.   
 Q.  Just to clarify, you haven't made that decision yet?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I haven't made the decision yet.  We have three days to talk, between us and the Dodgers, see what happens.  And then we'll go from there.   
 Q.  Would you be open to that, getting something done within the next three days, staying here?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I think we'll have some conversations, for sure.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT