NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS v CARDINALS
October 17, 2013
Clayton Kershaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







Q.   Can you talk a little bit about your relationship with A.J. and how it's developed over the years and what it means to you as a pitcher to have A.J. behind the plate? 
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Yeah, A.J.'s huge.   Not only A.J. and I are pretty good buddies off the field, obviously, but on the field I just have a lot of trust in him and what he calls.   I know he's done probably the most homework of anybody, other than Honeycutt.   It's just a good feeling as a pitcher that your catcher has done all the homework possible to make the right calls.

Q.   You've talked a lot about setting off outside distractions and even when it comes to injuries, things that you can't control.   But is that the same in the postseason not only for you and in the clubhouse, but do people really not talk about the fact that you guys are beaten up and yet so close to reaching a World Series? 
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Yeah, I mean, we obviously talk about it a little bit because we want to know if Hanley and Andre are playing, just like we want to know if anybody else is playing. 
But I think at the end of the day, we've got such a good group of guys that it doesn't really matter as far as mentality when we hit the field.   Now, obviously, the talent of Andre and Hanley is something you can't really replace and we understand that.   But at the same time, it doesn't do any good to think about what ifs.   We realize that.   We understand that, and we're looking forward to hopefully having both those guys on the field.

Q.   Could you talk a little bit about what it was like watching Game 5 and watching all those home runs, kind of knowing that you were going to get another chance to pitch? 
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Yeah, I didn't really think about the what ifs.   I just always assumed I was going to pitch Game 6.   I didn't really change my opinion too much as the game went on, but definitely fun to see some home runs fly out of here.   Definitely fun to see Gonzalez swing the bat so well.   And obviously, Carl Crawford has been swinging the bat well for us in the postseason.   It was a lot of fun yesterday, and hopefully we saved a few more for tomorrow too.

Q.   Did you have a chance to throw today at all? 
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Yeah, yeah, I did all my normal stuff today. 

Q.   You and Michael Wacha broke in at a very young age.   Did the surroundings ever get to you or has the pressure always been something that you've been able to put aside? 
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   I think you learn from experience.   I think the first couple times in the postseason, I didn't pitch as well as I would have liked other than a few, maybe one start there.   But I don't know if ‑‑ people can say it's because of nerves or whatever, but maybe I just didn't pitch that well. 
I think he obviously handles himself pretty well.   He's already pitched in some big games.   I don't think nerves are going to be an issue for him.

Q.   Just curious what kind of message you get from Rick Honeycutt in a situation like this and in a game you're pitching in today? 
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Honey and I got on the same page as far as everything goes.   We'll treat it like any other game, obviously.   We'll go over the scouting reports and go over the guys one more time.   But I don't think‑‑ I mean, Honey kind of lets us figure it out on our own as far as handling the situation stuff.   If he thinks anything needs to be said, he will.   But I don't think anything's going to be too different.

Q.   Is there anything particular you'd like to pick his brain about in these situations or just in any kind of pitching situation? 
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Yeah, but that's probably more for clubhouse stuff, I guess.   Not really for public knowledge. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT