MLB WORLD SERIES: DODGERS VS RED SOX
October 27, 2018
Clayton Kershaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. As a pitching expert what do you appreciate from what Nate Eovaldi did last night?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, you don't have to be an expert to appreciate that.  It was really, really impressive.  Just pitching in games 1 and 2, one day off.  I know he's pitched in the bullpen some, but he's basically a starter this year.  So to do that, it's incredible.  His stuff speaks for itself, obviously, but what he's able to do.
I played with Nate over here for a little bit, and he's just freakishly strong.  Obviously has an incredible arm.  But just to be able to do that says a lot about him.  It's really impressive.
Q. What was that pinch-hit experience like last night?  You were really locked in and hit the ball hard.
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, thankfully he threw one slow.  I don't think I had a chance otherwise.  In the National League you kind of are understanding of those situations with starting pitchers, sometimes those things come up.  You run out of bench guys, especially when the game goes 17 innings, 18 innings.  I don't even know how many innings it was last night.  You try to prepare as best you can.  Obviously there's not a lot of pressure on you because they're not expecting much.  Just try to put the ball in play.
Q. The way in which you guys won last night and the manner in which they had to expend so much and ended up losing the game.  How did that change the complexion of this series and the big picture?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Well, 2-1 compared to 3-0 is everything.  I think 2-1 you're in the series and 3-0, nobody's ever won in the World Series coming back from 3-0.  So just from that part alone is huge.  And then obviously when you play that long, you really want to win.  So it feels good to win that game.  Max with a huge swing for us last night.
As far as the bullpen's being taxed, I think we're kind of in a similar position.  We have Richie on full rest, which is great, but Nate saved their bullpen last night for the most part.  So everybody pitched on their side except for Pomeranz and everybody pitched on our side, as well.  So we're a little bit in the same position as far as that goes, just with a fresh Rich going for us, which is huge for us.
Q. After Game 1 you said your slider lacked its optimal depth.  Is there any fix to be made from that or is it just a matter of some nights you're not going to have it and just plow forward?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Well, you can't just assume it's going to be there the next time.  Definitely working on it.  Definitely trying to make it better.  It happens from time to time in the regular season as well.  I focused on it.  My bullpen focused on it, playing catch.  I hope it's better tomorrow.
Q. Does you see the banana shrine?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: The what?
Q. The banana shrine.
CLAYTON KERSHAW: What Dozier did?  Yeah, I saw it on video after.  It was a long game.  You get a little bored up there and start doing weird stuff.
Q. I know you've always been a guy who just sort of attacks each day.  I know a lot of people who know you will say that's what makes you so good.  I wonder how much importance you've ever placed on the big picture in terms of your legacy and maybe how people will define you for years, and how much importance you think there is in a start like tomorrow in terms of shaping what your legacy will be in that game.  Do you think about it in terms of maybe eliminating the perception of maybe you in the postseason, how much do you think about stuff like that?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Very little.  I don't really care about legacy.  I don't really care what people think of me or perceive of me.  Game 5 is a very important game to win the World Series, and I'm looking forward to pitching that game and hopefully putting us in a great spot going back to Boston.  And that's really all I care about.  All that other stuff, people are going to have their opinions, you know, and that's fine.  I'm not here to change them.  I'm here to pitch.  And all that other stuff will take care of itself.
Q. I wanted to ask you, a lot has been made during this series about the signs of their closer, that he was tipping off his pitches, supposedly, and was told he was doing it.  Is that something you are ever concerned about?  Is anyone ever watching you, monitoring you, seeing if you do anything relative to what type of pitch you throw?  Is that a concern pitchers have?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I think everybody goes through it at some point in their careers.  Usually when you're younger people can kind of pick you apart, and over time figure out things.  And same thing with me.  I think when I was younger I did some things like that and figured some stuff out, and some guys helped me out with that.  But this series in particular, obviously there's stuff coming out about all sorts of ways to get signs.  Everybody is paranoid, so everybody is taking the necessary precautions.
Yeah, so we're all aware of everything going on.
Q. You've now pitched into the World Series in two straight years.  How difficult is it to maintain stuff?  How difficult is just the physical challenge of pitching into a season that goes for seven months?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, it is a challenge for sure.  I think anybody will say playing baseball every day is a difficult thing to begin with.  In October you kind of get that rejuvenation of energy and adrenaline, because the games are so meaningful and impactful.  And you kind of hope that adrenaline kind of carries you through October.  And I don't think that's changed for me.  I think that's still the same.  The second a season ends, you start feeling the aches and pains a little bit more.  But we're all kind of running on adrenaline right now for sure.
Q. This is a little bit of a random one:  Brad Ausmus was your teammate, did you ever think he would be a manager?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, Aus was awesome.  One of my favorite teammates.  I think 2009 was my second year, maybe his last year.  He's 40, and I'm 21, not a lot to -- he could have very easily blown me off.  But really helped me out a lot.  Had a lot of fun talking with him.  And he obviously knows the game really well.  He just has that temperament, that demeanor.  Obviously he's smart but just everything else that goes along with being a manager.  The Angels got a good guy.  And I know he's going to be great for them over there.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT