NL DIVISION SERIES: DODGERS v BRAVES
October 2, 2013
Clayton Kershaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 Q.   Do you get nervous?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Yeah, every time.   I think that means you care about what you're doing.   For me, always get those butterflies before every game, always get kind of the anxious energy.   But once the game starts, you kind of forget about all that.  
   
 Q.   Are you cranky before a game?   Do you get snappy?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   No, but I'm not as vocal as usual, probably not as fun.   I'm sure some other guys would probably be better to ask about that than me.   They say I'm a little bit different on game day for sure.  
   
 Q.   Guys seem to be defining their legacies by what they do in October, is that fair or unfair?   And how are you a different pitcher than the last time you pitched in October?   
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Well, yeah, World Series is where we play the game, so obviously winning is a big factor in that.   And obviously you can't control your team getting here.   You're either going to be on good teams or you're not.   When I look at guys, I think of like‑‑ I always love watch Andy Pettitte and his postseason success.   That's stuff that you remember.   Regardless if it's‑‑ you can't really control if your team gets there or not to a certain point, but it definitely is fair I would say for a legacy.   
I mean, as far as four years ago, yeah, I hope I'm better than I was.   We'll find out.   
   
 Q.   But as far as maturity and everything, that's all‑‑  
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   I guess.   I don't know.   I feel the same, but I think with four years of experience, you probably get a little‑‑ you learn a little bit here and there.   
   
 Q.   Have you started thinking about their hitters yet, or will you wait until you meet with A.J. and Rick tomorrow, and what are your thoughts on their lineup?   I don't think you've faced them this year.   
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Yeah, same as always.   I really haven't changed my preparation at all.   I've already done most of my homework, got a little bit more to do, and then obviously hear from A.J. and Honey tomorrow.   
As far as their lineup goes, they've got depth as far as hitting the long ball.   They've got a lot of guys that can go leave the yard.   They've got a lot of guys that can do some damage.   And then obviously I think you've got to think about Freddie Freeman in the middle there.   He's probably‑‑ he's had a great year.   For me he's probably one of the top two or three MVP guys in our league.   You definitely got to be aware of him, and then Chris Johnson has been hitting like crazy too.   They've definitely got some guys that can hit, and it should be a fun matchup.  
   
 Q.   When you say homework, you just mean‑‑  
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Same as always.   It's not important what, but same as always.   
   
 Q.   Can you get this guy?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Good change‑up.   Melon has got a good changeup.   Thanks for asking.   He's been pitching awesome, too, the last month or so, and obviously he's had some success.   Last year, too, he was lights out when he came in as a starter.   Good pitcher.   He can hit a little bit.   He's been switch hitting.   It should be a fun matchup.   Hopefully I can recognize his changeup.   I heard it's pretty good.   I've never faced him.   We'll see.  
   
 Q.   As excited as you are and your teammates are about getting to the playoffs, is there any element of disappointment knowing that Matt can't play and Andre sounds like he's going to be limited, as well?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Well, I don't think we can be.   Obviously do we want Matt and Andre to play, absolutely, but I don't think there's any room to be disappointed.   I think for us it's just what we got is going to be good enough, and no excuses.   They've been a big part of helping us get here, but we like the guys that we have in the lineup, and I don't think anybody is going to make any excuses after the series.   
   
 Q.   A lot of the analysis of the series focuses on you and Greinke, one and two at the top of the rotation and how much of a plus that is for the team.   How do you feel about that and what do you think that does for your chances?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   It's a plus if we pitch good.   It's not if we don't.   Hopefully we pitch good basically.   You can't‑‑ expectations and all that stuff is great, but it's really up to us to pitch.   If we don't do that, then obviously the advantage is gone.   Just got to do that.   
   
 Q.   Physically how are you after the long season?   
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Physically I'm great.   I don't know if I can do this every single‑‑ no, I'm just kidding.   No, physically I feel good.   This whole season I've felt awesome.   Nothing has really changed one way or another.   I feel pretty strong.  
The last three or four starts, or last three starts I've had some extra rest, so I guess that's been nice for me to get just a little bit of a break here and there.   But yeah, physically I feel good.   
   
 Q.   Any advice that you've been given from a coach, teammate, manager, about specifically pitching in the postseason?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Win.   No, I mean, I don't know.   No specific advice.   We've got a lot of guys that have done it before.   I guess I look at some of the position guys like Nick and Skip and Uribe, Michael Young, guys that have been around, done it for a while, and I guess they don't talk about it, but their demeanor doesn't change.   So for me, I feel like nothing really changes.   The expectations change and obviously the pressure changes, but as far as our preparation and demeanor, nothing changes, just the adrenaline will take over once the game starts.   
   
 Q.   I think you may have heard the question asked of Donnie when you came in about three days' rest, and certainly us in the media, we love talking about aces on three days' rest.   What's your attitude towards that and your physical, mental readiness for that type of assignment if it comes up?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   It's tough for me to think about right now just because Game 1 is Game 1.   We've got to get that one first.   
If the opportunity presented itself, I'm definitely not opposed to it.   Obviously I haven't done it before, but I've got some ideas of how to get prepared for that.   It's pretty tough for me to think about right now just with Game 1 coming up tomorrow.  
   
 Q.   From the three starts that you've made in the postseason, what have you really noticed is much different about the preparation for those as opposed to just really any other start?   
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   No difference, yeah, same.   Except for this, no difference.   
   
 Q.   Even through osmosis and former Dodgers coming into Spring Training, it's been a while since they were top World Series champions.   Did players talk about the uniform and bringing something back and how important that is?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   I don't want to downgrade our organization as far as the history that we have.   Obviously that's important to the Dodgers and important to us.   But try not to think about it.   I know the players in there don't talk about it.   We get it, we haven't won a World Series in a long time.   The fans, LA, they obviously want a World Series just like we do.   We don't really talk about it.   We get it and we understand the history and we respect it.   But we're trying to make some of our own right now.  
   
 Q.   Do you know when they won a World Series last?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Yeah, I was born, '88.   We hear it every day from somewhere or another.   We hear it every day.   
   
 Q.   We always hear that date, June 22nd.   What happened?   Can you put a finger on what happened in the clubhouse that this team took off the way it did?   
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   I can't really put a finger on it.   I think it's just everything.   I mean, it's from people getting healthy to Puig coming up to Greinke coming off the shoulder/collarbone thing to pitching the way‑‑ he basically had a Spring Training during the somebody which nobody talks about, which is pretty incredible what he was able to do, and just everything.   I think it's the way we were supposed to play all along, it's just a matter of getting everybody to that point.   I feel like that's the way we're capable of playing, and we did.   
   
 Q.   Your team has great pitchers, including you.   Does that make you feel more comfortable?   Are you feeling more pressure because now it's the postseason or do you feel comfortable because of your pitching?   
CLAYTON KERSHAW:   Yeah, I guess it's kind of two questions.   I feel good.   Obviously I'm not‑‑ I feel prepared.   I feel ready for tomorrow.   Nothing is really going to change for me other than the atmosphere.   Obviously it's going to be pretty fun out there.   
And then our pitching staff has been great all year.   I think that was kind of part of your question.   We've got a great‑‑ from top to bottom, starting with Kenley all the way down the starters, we feel pretty confident with the guys we have.   
Brian Wilson has been huge for us back there, getting him late.   We've just got so many guys that can do so many different things.   I guess confidence‑wise, if that's your question, we feel pretty confident.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT