NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS v PHILLIES
October 13, 2008
Clayton Kershaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   


  THE MODERATOR: Questions for Clayton.  
  
  Q. I'm wondering, being in the bullpen now in the post-season how that's changing your routine and how you prepare every day?  
 CLAYTON KERSHAW: I'm just trying to get in the swing of things, really. I'm trying to -- obviously starting there's a set routine, set everything every day, and out in the bullpen I'm trying to figure out what all the guys are doing and trying to get a part of their routine.   
 It's a lot more hectic down there, but it's getting easier.  
  
  Q. Do you wish you were starting, and if not, do you feel like it's a compliment that they're using you in this specialized role, because of their left-handed hitters?  
 CLAYTON KERSHAW: As long as we win, I don't care what we do. And I was happy that I got to be a part of the playoff roster. And obviously Mr. Torre thinks that Derek (Lowe) pitching today on three days of rest gives us a better chance of winning.   
 I'm completely fine with that, and I like coming out of the bullpen. It's fun. I'm glad I'm getting to see that side of the game.  
  
  Q. As a 20-year-old in the first year, you're playing in this big stage, maybe a bigger stage, how do you feel about that?  
 CLAYTON KERSHAW: It's awesome. I'm having a blast doing it. Just trying to soak everything in. Because I know this doesn't happen very often and for this to be my first year and to get this opportunity it's pretty awesome.  
  
  Q. Have there been any points -- I know it's not a real lengthy professional career, anyplace where you've been a reliever before as a pitcher or have you always been a starter?  
 CLAYTON KERSHAW: I did it this year in AA a little bit, just did it one time. It was a set inning, I was coming in on this certain inning, certain batter. It wasn't like get up, get ready. It was take your time. Almost like another start, just in the middle of a game.   
 And so, no, not really at all.  
  
  Q. Do you know how long it takes you to get ready? Do you have an idea of how much lead time you need?   
 CLAYTON KERSHAW: I didn't before. Starting, you do the same thing every time. So I had a pretty set routine as far as that's all concerned.   
 Then out of the bullpen, the first time I did it, I think it was the last game of the season, regular season, I warmed up way too much. I was way too early with it. And just found out it doesn't take me as long as I thought it did. When I warmed up in Philadelphia, I kind of had a better feel for it.  
  
  Q. And I noticed you called Joe Mr. Torre. At what point in your career do you think you'll be comfortable calling him Joe or something else?  
 CLAYTON KERSHAW: It's going to be a while, I think. I think he just deserves that kind of respect for now from me.  
 THE MODERATOR: Thank you, Clayton.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT