NL CHAMPIONSHIP SERIES: DODGERS VS BREWERS
October 16, 2018
Clayton Kershaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
 Q.  This is a two-part question.  Since you've been with the team for so long, how much pressure or urgency is there among your teammates to get back to the World Series now as opposed to maybe when you began this run six years ago?  And if you only get one World Series appearance, does that discount what the team has accomplished in terms of with six Divisional Championships and three Championship Series appearances?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I don't really know.  You just try to take it year by year, honestly.  I think the biggest thing for us is being in the position to do that.  And for me, just thankful that I've been on a team that's been this good for this long to be in a position to even have a chance to win a World Series.  I know a lot of players don't get that opportunity.   
With that said, I think with each postseason and not winning a World Series, I think you tack on a little bit more pressure, a little bit more urgency to win, especially when you're in the market that we're in, when you're with the team that we are.  I think there becomes a little bit more pressure, for sure, just because we've had such a great team.  And it's been a long time since we've won one.   
 Q.  You've talked before about how you don't really care about the strikeouts or how the outs come, but you've always been someone who likes to be in control of things.  I'm curious, now you're pitching to contact a little bit more, you're relying more on your defense, you're opening yourself up to maybe balls that might fall in, I'm curious how you've kind of adjusted to that or how you've come to grips with the fact that there's going to be more out of your control when you're making these starts?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Same thing, I don't really think about that.  I think for me it's just -- it's not like I'm trying to pitch to contact more.  It's just happening.  When I say I don't care about strikeouts or anything like that, there's always a time for strikeouts.  There's always going to be a situation where you're going to need to strike somebody out, guys in scoring position, less than two outs.  There's going to be situations where you need to step on the gas a little bit and get that guy to punch out.   
But for me it's the efficiency in getting outs.  It's just the getting outs in general.  Sometimes it will be a strikeout, other times it will be different.  But it hasn't been a cognizant change for me.  I haven't really thought about it.  It's just kind of happened.   
 Q.  I know that after your last regular season start you mentioned something about the fact that that could have been your last start here, that crossed your mind.  As you've gone through this playoff experience here, are you taking anything in a little bit more?  Does this feel any different?  Are you processing things any differently?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Trying not to.  I think it's hard enough to try and win a postseason game.  I know more than anybody knows that.  So I think for me it's just trying to focus as much as I possibly can on the Brewers and getting ready for tomorrow's start.  And putting everything else on the back burner as best I possibly can.   
 Q.  Kiké answered a couple of questions last night about effort, or whatever the words he used was about just being flat last night.  Machado answered some questions about his effort level in a couple spots.  How do you see the last few games, where the team's energy, focus, whatever you want to call it, how is this team playing in this series?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Well, I think Game 2 is a lot of energy.  I think that was pretty impressive what we were able to do and with what J.T. and his big hit right there kept us in the series obviously.   
Baseball is tough because that's a great pitching staff over there.  And if you're not getting hits, it's harder to create the energy.  You become flat because there's not a lot of momentum going on when you're not getting a lot of hits.  But you can try and create energy as best you can.  And guys on the bench that aren't playing that day, maybe we need to do a better job of staying vocal and making sure these guys know we're behind them and supporting them.   
But ultimately, if you're getting hits, you're not going to feel flat, you're going to have energy.  Hopefully we get a couple of runs tonight and we'll feel that, too.   
 Q.  As you talk about getting ready for tomorrow's game, with the sense of urgency of tonight's game, what's your role?  Are you studying situations in terms of how guys are hitting or are you waiting to study video later and just being involved in the game?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: There's no secrets anymore.  I think now that we're in the fourth game of the series and facing them a couple of times in the regular season, I know what their strengths and weaknesses are.  They obviously know mine.  And I always like watching our guys pitch.  And especially because we have a lot of lefties.  I'll watch Richie pitch tonight and see what he does and how he attacks guys.   
For the most part, the video work is done, all the studying is done now, and it's just a matter of going out there and competing.   
 Q.  At the risk of being a little obtrusive here, have you made a decision on what your future is going to be?  And if not, how many days do you have after the end of the postseason to come up with that decision?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I have not made a decision.  And to my understanding you get ten days after the World Series.  So should be a busy ten days.   
 Q.  A lighter one for you, I think the last time we saw you here or one of the last times your children joined you.  Joc just became a father, any advice?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: It's going to be a whirlwind month for Joc.  He's got a good wife, good mom in Kelsey.  And happy for him.   
But it is life changing, I'll tell you that.  Baseball takes a different meaning when you have kids.  I'd say it's a great thing, though.  I think he'll realize that pretty quick.   
 Q.  Over the last year or two there's been a lot written about what you've meant to this franchise.  What has being part of this franchise meant to you?  And given the fact that you kind of grew up here, what part of who you are today do you attribute to kind of this environment?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, I'm incredibly grateful.  I'm just thankful that I've gotten to be here this long.  Like you said, I got drafted when I was 18.  I got here when I was 20.  From 20 to 30, that's a lot of growing years right there.  I've gotten married, had two kids, played a lot of baseball.  And really have grown up in this city.   
The only word that comes to minds is just grateful.  I really am.  It's been a great run.  And whatever happens I'll be thankful for that, always.   
 Q.  You've been here with the team as long as anybody with the team.  And with that in mind, you know the history of it.  How much does the idea of that 30 years since the last time this team won the World Series not weigh on you, just you're cognizant?  
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Yeah, definitely cognizant.  No disrespect to 1988, we hear about that a lot.  And I've said it before, but we are sick of it.  And it's up to us to do something about it, obviously.  We need to create some of our own history, for sure.   
I think it stands as a testament to this organization that they have such great history, that they take a lot of pride in their history, which I'm thankful for.  I'm thankful to be a part of that and be in this organization.  But at the same time if we win one, we might not have to hear about it anymore, which would be awesome.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT