NL DIVISION SERIES: BRAVES VS DODGERS
October 4, 2018
Clayton Kershaw
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








Q. Clayton, how much of a gut punch was it yesterday when they told you you weren't starting Game 1?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I wouldn't really consider it a gut punch.  I don't really think of it like that, I think, if I get to pitch in another playoff series for the sixth year in a row.  I'm and looking forward to it.
Q. If this goes to a Game 5, do you expect to be the guy on the mound for the Dodgers in Game 5?  You'd be on normal rest.
CLAYTON KERSHAW: It would be one or two of us.  We'll see.
Q. In the conversation did you ask why?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I did.  Yeah.
Q. Did you get an answer?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I did.
Q. Would you like to share it?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: No.  I mean -- no, not really.  Yeah.  (Smiles.)
Q. Clayton, considering your accomplishments, the fact that you're not pitching in Game 1, does that give you like some incentive to -- I mean not that you need extra incentive, but to show people that, I still have it, don't get it twisted.  I'm still the same guy?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: No.  I mean, I don't -- I don't really need to prove myself to anybody.  I think I just -- I want my teammates to want me out there.  I think that's the biggest thing.  Hyun-Jin has had a great season and he's pitched really well for us, and looking forward to watching him tonight, and I'll get my turn tomorrow.
Q. Clayton, when you heard the reason why, did you agree or disagree?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Good question.  (Laughs).  It wasn't really an agree or disagree type thing, I guess.  They had their reasons, and I accepted them.
Q. Do you feel like you would benefit with the extra rest at all?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Um, I don't know.  I'll let you know tomorrow.  You know, I think -- I think this year I've pitched with an extra day a lot more than in years past.  I mean, not necessarily by choice, not that I wanted to do it.  But it's kind of the way it was designed.  We have more off days now during the season, so it kind of worked out that way.  But I think I probably would have been fine either way.  Yeah.
Q. Hyun-Jin told us yesterday that you told him that he was going to be starting Game 1.  Can you share how that conversation went?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Sure.  Ryu asked me if I was pitching Game 1.  I said, no, you are.  And we walked off.  (Laughs).
Q. Clayton, in terms of pitching in a Game 2, is there any sort of advantage in it that you get to see the lineup the day before as opposed to Game 1?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Well, you know, I guess I can familiarize myself with the Braves a little bit, just seeing them -- I didn't pitch against them at Dodger Stadium this year.  So Ryu's left-handed obviously, *so kind of see how they look.  So, maybe.  I mean, probably not, but maybe a little bit.  Yeah.
Q. Given how important routine is to you, having the extra day, does that change anything?  Do you prepare differently at all because of that?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: I mean, at this point, you know, pitching, we've had extra days all season, so kind of have -- almost have two routines now for extra day and regular.  So kind of used to it at this point.
Q. Clayton, you've been very complimentary of Walker Buehler throughout the year.  I'm just curious, how quickly did you realize that maybe he had something a little special, what made you think that?
CLAYTON KERSHAW: Well, I mean, his talent is off the charts.  I mean, you can't teach throwing a ball that hard or being able to spin a ball like that.  So you see it in Spring Training, you know, I think -- was it this year that he came in and struck out like five of his first six in a relief outing in Spring Training?  So we all knew the talent was there.  I think it was just a matter of -- it doesn't always translate to the Big Leagues.  There's a lot of guys that throw really hard in the minor leagues that have great curveballs, so for him to excel as quickly as he did up here, it's a testament to him and his mindset and his ability and his competitiveness for sure.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT