SHANGHAI ROLEX MASTERS
October 11, 2013
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 N. DJOKOVIC/G. Monfils
  6‑7, 6‑2, 6‑4 
  
THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.   
   
 Q.   Talk a little bit about the match and then also following the match from yesterday and coming out again.   
GAEL MONFILS:   Yeah, well, it was a tough match today, a tough battle.   For sure I expected a tough battle like this from the baseline, a lot of rallies.   
I think I did good.   I did good.   In the beginning, I was come out strong.   That was a bit my fear, because I knew I was tired.   
I had a strong start, then Novak pull up even harder.   He was great.   He was great.   I think I had a bit of luck in the breaker.   Then I went for my shot once, and I took the first set.   
It was tough.   He was tough.   I was tired.   Yesterday I hurt again my abs.   It was really tough.   I get a bit scared with my abs.   It was tough for me to serve full bore.   For sure against Novak is impossible to win if not serving 100%.   
Then he start again put the pressure back, you know, on me.   So obviously he get back and actually break me once.   I had an opportunity at 3‑All.   But I think he played a great shots, a good serve and a good forehand.   
Then I sort of give him the second set a little bit.   I work with the physio, release a bit my abs.   Then I think I forget I have the pain.   The third was close.   
It's been a while since I did not play big matches like this.   It was tough for me to make the right choice in the good moment.   I think it's the details.   It was about some details that he won it.   
But I'm still happy.   I haven't practiced much before here.   To come up here strong was good, you know.   He is one of the best player in the world, and I have no shame today.   
   
 Q.   You were injured relatively early in the season.   It's been a struggle since then.   Looking back on the season, how many tournaments have you been able to play injury‑free?  
GAEL MONFILS:   I don't counting actually.   But it's tough.   It's tough.   Actually this season was kind of all right, not too bad, not too bad.   But not many matches.   
But, you know, I'm still confident 'cause even, you know, with my abs hurt me, to come up and play a big match like this, so I just have to be strong and work out stronger to be fit.   
Maybe next year I will adjust my schedule 'cause so far I see that, you know, I'm a guy who can play maybe two, three weeks, then I need maybe two, three weeks off, then maybe play two, three weeks.   
Now I try just to get last point I can have to get a ranking allow me to skip a couple tournaments.   
   
 Q.   The second set, you got a little upset with the umpire.   Talk about what happened there and if this was a distraction.   
GAEL MONFILS:   Not really.   You know, I love any (indiscernible).   I'm not swearing at him.   I like to do that.   
He give me a warning violation, time violation.   I told him that I split, then it's not that easy move.   I hurt a bit my hamstring, so that's why I took a bit long.   
But he told me I should lift my hand and tell him, Just give me extra 30 second.   I told him, Can you do the splits?   You will see I was not able to lift my hand.   
So is nothing major.   
   
 Q.   Did it distract you for the rest of that set?  
GAEL MONFILS:   No, no at all.   Maybe you think that it distract me.   But I was too focused on this match.   Then I think just Novak played good.   He played good.   
Also sometime he helps you to release because, you know, I get a bit upset because I start to felt the pain.   When something's going bad, you always find something to release on.   It was Carlos, so thanks to him.   
   
 Q.   You played so well in this tournament.   Are you sad at all the season is ending?  
GAEL MONFILS:   Not really because, you know, it was a long road for me.   It's not finished, but it's still a long road for me.   I think in the beginning of the season, I was hundred and something.   To get back where I am, I would never believe.   
And then to come out today and play those big matches, also is the same.   I'm happy, and try to focus on the last three tournaments.   
I'm just now, okay, I will have a month and a half to practice, to get back on the top.   I'm already looking forward for 2014.   
   
 Q.   I talked to Jo about this before.   We tend to think of the top nation in the top of the rankings as the Spanish, yet both you and Spain have the same seven players in the top 50.   They have 14 in the top 100.   You have 13 in the top 100.   Why do you think we don't think of the French quite at that level with the Spanish?  
GAEL MONFILS:   I have no ideas actually.   No ideas.   Luck.   
   
 Q.   Jo thought that maybe because you guys are not quite as tight friends as the Spanish, that you're not driving each other.   Any truth to that?  
GAEL MONFILS:   Maybe.   But obviously, you know, to be honest, we just had all luck.   Even you're friend with someone, is your talent.   Maybe our country exploited better the kids.   Maybe that's why we have a bit more players.   
But honestly I think it's just luck.   Some generation is more, some not.   So it's luck, I think.   
   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT