MONTE-CARLO ROLEX MASTERS
April 13, 2011
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. MONFILS/D. Gimeno-Traver
  7-5, 6-2

 THE MODERATOR: Questions in French, please. 

 Q. After many weeks off the courts, is this a good start? 
 GAËL MONFILS: Yeah, more or less. I wasn't impressed by my game, but it was nice playing on center court, though a bit strange for a start. 

 Q. And now the bad omen is over: you won on center court. 
 GAËL MONFILS: Yes, I won on center court. 

 Q. What did you improve in your game? 
 GAËL MONFILS: Well, today I remained focused from the beginning till the end. I didn't do much during the match. I stayed back. I was very defensive. But I didn't give up any points. 
 Sometimes when I play, I have lapses of concentration. This didn't happen today. In that match, I got broken stupidly because I was not aggressive enough. I'm pleased because physically I have no problems, although I was playing defensive and doing a lot of running. 
 I didn't do much, but what I did was satisfactory. 

 Q. You served often slower to his backhand. Couldn't you have served faster today? 
 GAËL MONFILS: I was told it was better to serve to his backhand. Also, the balls are pretty heavy here. When they're still new, it's all right. But then I realized it was better to serve the second serve on my first serve. This is the choice I made. 

 Q. You have no pain in your wrist? 
 GAËL MONFILS: I have no acute pain in my wrist. 

 Q. But maybe you are a bit hesitant? 
 GAËL MONFILS: No. As I play, I forget about it. 

 Q. What about your next round? You beat him twice. 
 GAËL MONFILS: It's not going to be easy because although I'm supposed to be the better one, I know he gives nothing away. In Australia I beat him, but I lost a set because of concentration lapses. 
 But playing him without confidence is going to be difficult. He's a difficult player to read. For the time being, I'm not really able to hit winners, so I know the match will be a big fight if I play like I did today. 
 I will try to go over him. But if I'm not confident to go up to the net, I know everything will happen on the baseline. 







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT