U.S. OPEN
August 30, 2010
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT







G. MONFILS/R. Kendrick
  3-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-7, 6-4

 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please. 

 Q. It was a real fight out there today. Is that always tough to start a two-week tournament with a five-setter like that, or is it maybe okay to get out there and know you can win a five-set match?
 GAËL MONFILS: I know I can win five-set match. I think I'm tough to play in five sets. But today was not a good day for me. I mean, it was like I was fighting against myself, so tried to be like more aggressive, tried to play my game. 
 I think today I was pretty flat. But I'm happy, you know, I come through, and I just give myself second chance to practice hard tomorrow and to be better on Wednesday. I'm quite happy for that.

 Q. How was it fighting against yourself? Was it more mental?
 GAËL MONFILS: Yeah, mentally. I think physically I'm good. But when the mind is not working that good, as you can see. I was like slow on the court and bad judgment sometime and also tried to change a bit my game. 
 Wasn't the real Gaël Monfils on the court. You know, I fight, compete, and I come through, so it was -- I mean, I made my job pretty simple. Not good but, pretty simple.

 Q. You've had good results here. Do you generally feel comfortable playing here?
 GAËL MONFILS: Yeah, I mean, definitely. Just today wasn't a good day. I had a good week. I practiced, feel the ball good, physically I was good. Yesterday was a bit off, but still, like I told you, I did the job: win. That's it.

 Q. Is there a big difference in the final set, the big points in the final set versus the big points in the second, fourth set? Obviously you won, but in terms of your approach or anything you were doing that allowed you to make a difference there?
 GAËL MONFILS: Ah, for sure you're a bit more careful how you choose, because the end -- I mean, the final set if you choose, I don't know, to serve and volley at 4-All in the fifth, different to choose to early in the second set.
 I mean, I try to be like a bit more aggressive, tried to push him a bit more, and in the end he was same tired like we are tired, so tried to move in.
 Tried to put some long rallies, also.

 Q. Coming off a first round, in Cincinnati, you were knocked out of the first round, do you feel that you sometimes get off to a slow start in tournaments? Explain what happened in Cincinnati. 
 GAËL MONFILS: Cincinnati wasn't my day, you know. I had like bad day, and then mentally wasn't on the court. My mind was somewhere else, so was a bad day. Happen sometimes. I forget this part.

 Q. Are you in good form? Do you feel you are in good form?
 GAËL MONFILS: No, not really, but I think every day is a new day, so let's see what Gaël it will give me on Wednesday.

 Q. Do you enjoy the atmosphere? The fans are chanting, USA. 
 GAËL MONFILS: Oh, yeah. I love USA, so for me doesn't matter. I can share with them because I love the USA. For me it was more distraction, was more to relax and enjoy a bit, maybe to think about something else. So for me, it was great.

 Q. How do you stay calm? You get into a fifth set and it's getting late in the fifth set, is there anything you do to keep yourself calm and focused?
 GAËL MONFILS: I know in fifth set is different, but I'm strong I think in the fifth set. I think I lost two one year against Djokovic the first year - and I think I could have win this one - and one in French Open, terrible. 
 But I think in the fifth set I'm very strong and competitive, so I always love play fifth set. So for me was good, actually.

 Q. You did a couple of dropshots. What was your strategy in the game today?
 GAËL MONFILS: I mean, just tried to mix up a bit. I saw he was a bit like slow to coming forward, so I tried to use this one. Actually, the courts are very bouncy, so I get lucky today with the dropshot.
 But sometimes against those players is good to play a bit -- to bring in forehand, because he think you will play deep and fast, and so you mix up a bit.

 Q. There was a lot of fans, a lot of people in the court. Was that a distraction for you?
 GAËL MONFILS: I mean, people for sure help me. I mean, in the end like help me. I think it helped me to be more relaxed and also more like, Okay, it's a game, it's a great game. People enjoy, so enjoy yourself. Try to be more relax. 
 It's been like, I mean, four sets you struggle a bit and you seem a bit flat, so I take this like in a good way. So that's why it helped me a lot.







END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT