ROGERS CUP MEN
August 12, 2010
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 A. MURRAY/G. Monfils
  6-2, 0-6, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about what happened with your shoulder there? Did you hurt it during the match when you dived for the ball?  
 GAËL MONFILS: I mean, my shoulder was a bit sore before the match, and then on the dive I think I felt on my nerve, so I was like really painful then. I think I just pinch a bit my nerve, and then to lift it was very hard for me. So actually, it was tough to serve in the third set.  
  
  Q. Would you say that was the biggest reason that Murray's changed -- or things changed so much in the third set? Do you really think the shoulder prevented you from winning?  
 GAËL MONFILS: I don't know. This is natural, but I think it happen because, I mean, I dropped like from few errors, like quick errors, and then I had to go for my shot more.  
 And then without serve, you never get like free points. And as we know, like Andy is a great returner. So I was serving like really, really slow. So help him, I think, to set more the points, and then I think I fight and he was better than me today.  
  
  Q. A lot of times you had Andy on the run. I'm just wondering, is that sometimes a good thing and then also sometimes a bad thing? Seems like he might pump himself up a bit when he's getting into those long rallies where he's running around a lot.   
 GAËL MONFILS: Yes, but actually, I was quite happy. He make long rallies, he was pumped up, but still, I know if I won like couple point like this and me, too, I will be pumped up, so was even, actually, I think.  
  
  Q. After the first set it seemed like you really took control of the match, and Andy kind of seemed to almost have your number in the first set. So was there anything that you changed up differently in the second set that kind of you felt like you kind of took advantage of something that Andy was doing?   
 GAËL MONFILS: I think first set Andy just played like really good, put the ball in, and I was a bit maybe not too offensive but tried to go for shot unbelievable, and then he just set me like really good.   
 Then after I think he start to serve a bit -- I mean, the second set was poor a service serve for Andy. I mean, he had like 39%, I think.   
 So actually, at this level I think when you're not serving really good, give the advantage to the other player. So, I mean, I took it, and then in my baseline, I get used to with the wind, the condition, and also how Andy was playing soft and sometimes try to agress me, like was I was more alert with my legs to turn with my forehand and also cover more backhand down the line.  
 And then in the third set it was different, because I couldn't serve like I want. So like the tactic was real different, but I think still he not play like that good, I think. He just play solid. Not serve great but just have -- just be a bit more solid than me today.  
  
  Q. Can you talk a little bit about during the match how you manage sort of the show, you know, hitting the great points and running around, and then focusing on winning the point and winning the match?  
 GAËL MONFILS: Well, the fact is, you know, I'm just -- I'm just me on the court, you know. I'm just happy to be on the court.  
 So I don't know. Sometime, yes, people say I'm doing the show, but it's pretty natural, you know. I'm just me.   
 I don't know if I'm focused more or not. For me, I'm always the same, try to make my game. I just am maybe more happy than sort of player, like really -- I mean, I let my emotion go. So when I hit like good shot, I'm happy. When I'm hit like a very bad shot, I'm happy, too, because it's funny how you can be at that level and sometimes hit like worse shots.   
 I'm always happy, you know. I'm always fighting. For me, like I always say, is a gift from my parents to play tennis. I enjoy, and so every time I'm happy losing, winning, for sure I want to win, but if you -- if you fight, doesn't matter.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT