SHANGHAI ATP MASTERS 1000
October 14, 2009
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. MONFILS/L. Hewitt
  4-6, 6-4, 6-2 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. It was a very up-and-down match. How did you manage to turn it around in the end?  
 GAËL MONFILS: Yes, it was. I mean, I just try to focus in the last set to be more aggressive, play with more pace on my shots and try to stretch it more than the start. I mean, it was good after.   
  
  Q. I will ask about the organization of the tournament. I didn't get to see the game because I wasn't on the court, but I would ask about the organization of the game, of the tournaments in Asia. If you should compare it to tournaments in the United States or in Europe, how would you rate it?  
 GAËL MONFILS: I mean, here, here is very good. Here we have a nice locker room. I think it was good. Shower good. I mean, the stadium is unbelievable, so it's great.   
 No, I mean it's very good organization. The transport is great. I mean, no, everything is good. I mean, it's a 1000 so at least it's very good.  
  
  Q. I only heard something about the locker rooms. What's so special about the locker rooms?  
 GAËL MONFILS: I mean, the great -- we have space, like every player has the, like the big tournaments, home locker room, and the shower good. I mean, some tournaments no shower is good but a little bit strange, cold water. But here is good, actually, and we have space, so it's good.   
  
  Q. Your coach, Roger, had worked with Lleyton Hewitt before for long time. Does that give you some advantage like you can get some very specific tactics?  
 GAËL MONFILS: You know, it's tough, because he help me a little bit maybe mentally, but no, when you come on the court, it's 0-0. You know, even though he work with him, it was maybe one year and a half ago, so, I mean, Lleyton change. I mean, he help me a little bit, but not that much.  
  
  Q. Talking about Lleyton Hewitt, he's 28, 29 years old now. He's had a long career, still playing some great tennis. What do you think of his future prospects?  
 GAËL MONFILS: I don't know, you know. What I know -- I mean, he's a tough player. I mean, to play against him is always tough, and I know I have to play very good tennis to find a solution and to win against him.   
 And, I mean, he had a good week last week, and then now he's become more solid than when he come back, and I think now he's around 20. So I think we will have another match, for sure. I mean, I hope he will play a lot longer, because he's a figure in the tennis. He's a good guy, so I wish him the best.   
  
  Q. You've played a lot of tournaments in recent weeks. Is that because you're catching up? Because you missed some earlier of the year.   
 GAËL MONFILS: Yeah. Yeah, it is. For sure it is for that. And also, sounds good, because for a long time I didn't play like week, week like that, and it's mean also my body is better. I feel better. And the work I had with Rog and my physio is going better. So that's why it was also try and to see how long I can play like I have it like this, and is work, so I'm happy with.   
  
  Q. With a lot of the other players tired or injured at the moment, do you think you have a good chance to qualify for the finals?  
 GAËL MONFILS: I'm tired, too. I can tell you I'm tired, too, and I don't even think about the Masters at end of the year, so...   
  
  Q. Just interested about French tennis. You've had a lot of great players for a long time but no Grand Slam winner since 1983. Why do you think all these really good French players can't take that final step and win the Major?  
 GAËL MONFILS: I mean, we close. And I think certainly in front of us we have like top guy. We have a legend, we can say, Roger. We have another semi-legend, Rafa.   
 And then after we, let's say with four, also, Djoko, Murray. So, I mean, it's tough for us,   
Del Potro. So, I mean, we fight and we will not give up. I think we will have one soon. We will have one soon. Don't know when, but for sure we work hard. We have guys, even with me, also, to win one, but not forget like in front of us we have like top guy also, so I mean, we would love to, but actually it's tough.   
 I mean, let's say on clay this year what Rafa win like four in a row and then on grass, and Roger can win everywhere. Then we have Del Potro, Murray. So I think it will be time, but I think maybe next year we will have maybe one.  
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
 
 
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT