U.S. OPEN
September 8, 2009
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 R. NADAL/G. Monfils
  6-7, 6-3, 6-1, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. You started out very, very strongly. It looked like you were controlling the match, obviously winning the first set tiebreaker. Thought that would propel you into better tennis. Turned around after that. Could you explain what happened?  
 GAËL MONFILS: I think I get a little fatigue. Also, Rafa playing good. It's credit to him. He played more deep, more, heavy, more flight on his shot.   
 I think it was a bit tough to keep going like that, to take the ball. I think I stepped back a little bit and just give him I think more time and more time to set up.  
 And also, I think today he played very good, very good. His defense was very, very strong today. So I mean, this where I think the change for me.  
  
  Q. When you play Rafa when he's playing as well as he had tonight, what do you take out of it? I know you haven't had much chance to reflect on it. This has been a good tournament for you so far.   
 GAËL MONFILS: I mean, this, for me, actually we were talking a little bit with my coach. He's only one for me who is very tough physically he can put me maybe out of the line.   
 I mean, even Roger is pretty quick, he's not like long rally like Rafa, because will never give up like easy, and Roger sometimes is not running.   
 Against Rafa I think I need to improve like physically again, be stronger. But also, yeah, just to keep going and watch where I'm staying on my baseline, and maybe is good for an hour and 30 minutes. Now I have to improve for maybe two hours and a half.   
 I think it will be the biggest improvement to beat him in Grand Slam.  
  
  Q. You were watching the Tsonga game on the TV upstairs. What were your feelings in your mind when he lost?  
 GAËL MONFILS: I was pissed, because, you know, if we can both do, to be in the quarterfinal, for sure French guy will be in semis. So I was like, fuck, I need to win to do the fight.  
  
  Q. Rafa has obviously had knee problems and then the abdominal. Did you feel any sense at all he was in trouble?  
 GAËL MONFILS: How about you? I think you have same eyes as me. Do you think he have any problem in abdominal...   
  
  Q. No.   
 GAËL MONFILS: Thank you. I think I lost, so I would say, yeah, I feel he can't run, he can't hit his ball. I just lost, so...  
  
  Q. Does he seem the exact same player as before?   
 GAËL MONFILS: What do you think?   
  
  Q. I think yes, but I can't feel it.   
 GAËL MONFILS: Sorry. I think the same.   
  
  Q. How has he changed since you beat him at Doha? How do you think he has changed since you beat him at Doha?  
 GAËL MONFILS: I mean, actually, we play longer today. We play longer, and then it was different. I mean, I had like a lot practice behind me, and just come out with few match and a little bit practice.   
 So didn't have that confidence also to keep going, didn't have the miles in my legs. If I played maybe six tournaments before the US Open even, I think it will be more than an hour, 30 minutes. It can be two hours and maybe push him when I'm back in second set at 4-3.   
 It was a little bit unlucky when I hit the net, but maybe that one is like I need more match, more feel the ball.  
 So, actually, his play against me, I think this was the change today.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT