U.S. OPEN
September 2, 2009
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. MONFILS/J. Chardy
  6-1, 6-4, 6-3 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.  
  
  Q. You've had a number of injury issues. Are you completely healthy coming into this tournament?  
 GÄEL MONFILS: Completely much better, but I think I still have a little problem with my knee and I have to make sure. My wrist is getting better, so I'm quite good. But 100%? Not really.  
  
  Q. Do you have to tone down your game, play not as aggressively as you used to because of the injury?  
 GÄEL MONFILS: No, I just be myself. Why I would change my game? Because I was born like that. I mean, I was gifted like that, so I'm not gonna change my game about my injury. I used to go like that and I have knee problems, so I just have to make sure I am again vigorous, and I just try to be me and play aggressive style, whatever.   
  
  Q. How do you feel about your chances coming into the US Open?  
 GÄEL MONFILS: Pretty good. Pretty good. I feel great. I feel great the ball. I think I had a good match today. I have a day off tomorrow, so yeah, I feel good. Hope to be very fine.   
  
  Q. What was working well for you today out there?  
 GÄEL MONFILS: Actually, I think like my best thing about today was I tried to play inside the court, tried to be more aggressive, and not going too far off my baseline. So this was good.   
 Not too good the serve. It was okay, 57, I think, percent. But 12 aces, none double faults, so actually the rest was quite correct. So I'm happy.   
  
  Q. Can you talk about your style of play a little bit? Some fans give you the nickname Slider Man, and they enjoy seeing you on the court, how colorful you are and happy you seem to be. Talk about that a little bit.   
 GÄEL MONFILS: I'm pretty natural on the court. I mean, the slide is like a gift, because when I see the ball and I don't know how to reach it, I just slide. Actually, I can slide on the hardcourt also, so it's a gift, I think.  
 I'm happy on the court because my parents always learn me to be happy on the court. They told me always it's somewhere you can express yourself, you can be you. So I just keep doing it. Every time I'm on the court I just enjoy.  
 I'm lucky to be on the tennis court, so just be myself and just leave my expectations out.   
  
  Q. Last year after some matches that you won, you did a Soulja Boy dance. Will there be anything explosive like that this year?  
 GÄEL MONFILS: Depends. I mean, depends, depends, because it change a little bit, dance, since Soulja Boy. So now, I don't know. Depends on my elation. Maybe. Why not?   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT