AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 26, 2009
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 G. SIMON/G. Monfils
  6-4, 2-6, 6-1 (ret) 
  
 THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
  
  Q. What is your injury? What happened?   
 GAEL MONFILS: I mean, exactly I don't know, but like I think I twist my wrist. I don't make like an exam, but my wrist is not very good, so...   
  
  Q. Could it be related to the new racquets?  
 GAEL MONFILS: No, I don't think so.   
  
  Q. Was that the first time it actually hurt?  
 GAEL MONFILS: The wrist?   
  
  Q. Yes.   
 GAEL MONFILS: I had a problem on the left one last year. I think it's pretty similar, but I'm not sure a hundred percent. But it was the left one.   
  
  Q. Do you know how it happened?   
 GAEL MONFILS: Happen during the game slowly. Then like when I really feel it was at 3-1 for Gilles. I mean, it was maybe 3-0 I serve, that service game, then I start to feel it like very heavy.   
 Then I asked the physio. I was thinking maybe it was on my head. Then I say, I feel it. I ask the physio and finish.   
  
  Q. In the first set you were playing pretty cagey, not big shots. Was that not because of your wrist but a tactical decision?  
 GAEL MONFILS: I tried to do something else, but actually was shit.   
  
  Q. Why did you switch racquets? Did you have any problems adjusting to Prince?  
 GAEL MONFILS: Because I think the racquet Prince made was maybe a little better than the Head by the past. I feel like I'm more comfortable on it.   
 To step in was a little better, I was thinking. I use less power maybe, not to hit too hard. Was little bit more flexible, so that's why.  
  
  Q. Were you able to make the change quickly with no problems?  
 GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, yeah.   
  
  Q. You think it gives you more power or what exactly?  
 GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, I feel maybe a little more power on some shots, and then more control on some one else. Like my forehand return I think is more better because I don't have to hit too, too hard to get back the ball, and more simple because the racquet help me a little bit.   
 I think I have more power from my backhand, so that's why.   
  
  Q. This is the first time you played Gilles. You're obviously close friends. Did you say much to each other as you were walking out?   
 GAEL MONFILS: No, we talk like normal. I mean, it's okay.   
  
  Q. You were 10 meters in front of him. Was it normal to have that big gap and Gilles to catch up?  
 GAEL MONFILS: At least when we were on court we try to forget it. But still, we know like it's for so long, so it's okay.   
 It's the first time we play on a tournament, but I hope the next time will be maybe in the semis or quarters. So it's okay. It's the first time, but not the last time I hope.   
   
  End of FastScripts  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT