US OPEN
September 2, 2019
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MONFILS/P. Andujar
6-1, 6-2, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. What are you happiest with today?
GAEL MONFILS: I was happy because I think everything I did tonight was working. I think my game plan was good. I was moving good. I hit big the balls. I was in the game plan.
When everything works, you know, not much to say about it.
Q. Your next match, a lot of players have been talking about his forehand. What do you think is the strength of his game?
GAEL MONFILS: Big serve first. I think he got a big serve. Crush the forehand. He's a great athlete. Great mover for his height. Tough one, someone hit big from the back. Use his serve and his forehand.
Is going to be an interesting one, a tough one.
Q. Would you say you play your best tennis here, and if so why?
GAEL MONFILS: I play great tennis here, very great tennis. Always say that I love the atmosphere. I love the energy. The energy is very important. Every stadium I go, definitely those stadium here in New York are one of the best for my game and for my personality.
I feel very comfortable, so I think that why I play always great tennis here.
Q. When you got the penalty, tell us the conversation you had.
GAEL MONFILS: I just ask him where he was looking, the umpire. Obviously it was 6-1, 6-2, 4-1, 40-Love. I serve wide and I hit the straight winner. Something come into my eyes. I take maybe 10 second.
Why you give me? Then he say, Sorry. Obviously I didn't want to take time. I don't know what he thought actually. He said, Sorry. No worries. I don't going to complain, but just tell me why. I say, Okay, no problem.
Q. You seem to be having fun out there, but still about your business. You were very cordial. Is that the way you always play the game?
GAEL MONFILS: As I say, I felt good. When you felt strong, felt like it would be very tough for him today to beat me. My groundstrokes was there, was there. My physic was there. I was on top of him.
Just be myself, relax, take care of the business and that's it. I enjoy. Is good also.
Q. Do you get excited your next match will be in front of 20 something thousand people?
GAEL MONFILS: You practice for that. You always dream to play in the slam, prime time if it is, big stadium. That's why we play tennis for, I guess. That's why I think it bring the best also of me.
Q. Was there a moment when you were younger when you saw a game in a big stadium that you wanted to do something like that?
GAEL MONFILS: Never watched tennis, to be honest with you. Never watched tennis. In tennis, no. But basketball, yes. I saw couple guys. I used to definitely like Iverson when he was young, Michael Jordan, Dennis Rodman. Those guys, it was fun for me.
I couldn't understand what they say because I couldn't speak English. My parents either. But just to see them doing what they doing was great. Yeah, that's cool.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT