ROGERS CUP
August 10, 2019
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English, please.   
 Q.  The thought process of after the match, when the decision was made, your level of disappointment?  
GAEL MONFILS: Well, right after, the first question of my coach was, How bad was my ankle?   
I felt it.  I say, I didn't roll it like full, but I roll it a little bit, enough for me to be careful.   
He told me I had no chance.   
I was like, Yeah, but we never know...   
He knows I love these matches, night session, Rafa.  It's because I playing tennis is for that, for the big moments, big shows.   
He say, But not this one.   
He's right, because we been battling all the year.  I been unfortunate in March, a little bit again in July.  Maybe it was a safest decision not to play tonight.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.   
 Q.  What happened exactly against Bautista Agut?  You didn't want to take any risks, and there was no way you would play the other match?  
GAEL MONFILS: What happened?  Well, I won.  I'm happy.  I played a good match.   
I started well.  I felt good.  But at 6-4, 2-1 I had a pain moving backwards, and my ankle that was already painful, I hurt it again.  When you're warmed up, it's okay.  Even it's very okay because I was able to run a lot in the next game because on that previous game I got broken.  I had opportunities to break back the following game.  I really used my ankle.   
But very quickly you could see that physically I was not fit as I should be since the beginning of the week.  So in the third set I chose to play only my serve games.  On the return games I didn't have enough energy to win.  My ankle was hurting, I was afraid for my ankle.   
I chose to playfully the service games where I was hitting hard, and then in the tiebreaker, I gave it all.  I tried to be aggressive.  The backhand down the line helped me a lot.  I was able to pull it out.   
 Q.  If the semifinal was played tomorrow with more recoup time, would you have played it?  
GAEL MONFILS: I could have had a chance, but now it was very difficult with only two hours to recover.  I had played two and a half hours before.  It's the first tournament since my comeback, and I have to take into account I was going to play against Rafa.  Against Rafa you have to be 100%, it's always difficult that way.   
If you're not 100% physically, and I'm not because I'm injured, and because I played two and a half hours, so it becomes difficult.   
I could start the match, but then I might have to stop playing for the whole hard court season.  Of course, this kind of match I love to play.  It's champagne matches.  It's incredible.   
But this is what we were saying with my coach.  Fortunately I got injured in my ankle because otherwise I would have tried.  But now because of my ankle, he said, Just don't think about it.   
 Q.  When did you know exactly you would not play?  
GAEL MONFILS: When the coach asked me if my ankle rolled, and I said yes.   
He said, You can't take the risk.   
I had retired in Wimbledon.  I came back.  I played this week.  I had played a huge match.  It was risky to play another match because I could risk hurting myself for real.   
Here, if I can recover, I can play in Cincinnati maybe, have a chance to also play a big US Open.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT