DUBAI DUTY FREE TENNIS CHAMPIONSHIPS
February 28, 2019
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MONFILS/R. Berankis
6-1, 6-7, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. Looked to be an easy match for you, then it wasn't.  Why?
GAEL MONFILS: Second set, I don't know, it was a little bit different.  I mean, I had less on my shots.  I felt a bit flatter.  That's why I wanted to come out strong and show nothing.  I think the energy dropped a little bit.
I don't know, new balls, 30-Love up, I should have finished that for sure.  Things went a little bit quick.  Then honestly at that moment is tough because you angry, you have to straightaway focus on the new games.
He played a bit better.  He was a bit more aggressive.  I couldn't really find my rhythm, as well.  I felt he was a bit more pumped.  It was tougher for me.
I really had to really get upset and bring more energy for me, to move more my legs, to be a bit more aggressive on my shots, more aggressivity on every shot.  That was it.
Q. The last three games, is that what you would ideally love to play?
GAEL MONFILS: No, because I want to be more aggressive.  The last three games was just pure anger, as I say, intensity of my all shots.  But I was far.  Still I'm aggressive, but I was little bit worried.  He was better, but I want to be closer.  I want this match even more.  The intensity, definitely it's something positive.
Q. Why is it that your level dropped dramatically after a brilliant first set?
GAEL MONFILS: It start to be a bit windy.  He went for different shots.  He was going more on the line.  I was covering a bit better.  Then he stays more on my backhand.  Somehow I get a routine that, Okay, I will do a cross-court.  I have less purpose.  I think go a little bit away of my game plan.  Then, sure, he make brilliant shots.  It's a mix of everything.
Q. There aren't many players who play as aggressively and forward as he does.  Is that more the sort of game you were trying to impose on him, he stopped you doing it?
GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, I mean, he was very aggressive.  He hit big the ball.  He hit big the ball.  He was quick.  Honestly, was amazing how quick he was on all my passing shot.  I felt he was there all the time.  I think I'm quite good.  It was quite tricky for me.
Q. Have you ever used an underarm serve in your career?  Do you think it's a good tactic to use?
GAEL MONFILS: We saw that couple times.  I don't know if I use it.  But why not?  Why not?  I mean, it's a shot.  It's something not often made, so it looks different.  If you're good at it, why not?






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT