AUSTRALIAN OPEN
January 18, 2018
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/G. Monfils   
4-6, 6-3, 6-1, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.   
 Q.  Was that one of the most toughest matches you've played, just purely due to the heat?  
GAEL MONFILS: Yes, it was tough with the tough condition.  It was really warm.  It was tough to breathe.  Yeah, I think it was the hardest I have.   
 Q.  Was it too dangerous to keep going out there?  
GAEL MONFILS: For sure, you know, we took risk.  At one stage I said to the chair umpire that the 25-second rule, there's no need.  At the end, honestly, I was like, Okay, I don't want rally so much, I want to, but I know after one or two rallies I be done.   
No matter how much you train in the heat, how much you like the heat, is very tough.  It was a tough decision I think for the official.  I mean, it's both, you know.  We have the same condition.   
It's a little bit hot, maybe a little bit too hot (smiling).   
 Q.  What do you think they should have done?  The roof?  A longer period of rest?  
GAEL MONFILS: Definitely it squeeze this time, because it puts you so much pressure with the heat, then you rush.  Honestly, I played two set half a breath, for nothing, just to please the official.  So at the end, you know, it's a bit risky.   
 Q.  Could you describe what you were feeling in your head, legs and body.  
GAEL MONFILS: It was some harm, you know.  I get super dizzy.  I think I have a small heat stroke for 40 minutes.  Couldn't feel like fresh.  I try to cool down.  But even with the ice towel, the water, I think my body was super warm.  Could not, you know, be very fresh after any points, so it was tougher.   
 Q.  Did the umpire at any point warn you?  There were times where you simply couldn't...  
GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, I told him.   
I think it was a bit tougher for him today.  Even Novak get time violation, but I think it was not so -- you know, those condition, they should allow us a little bit more time.   
 Q.  You thought about stopping?  Is that right?  
GAEL MONFILS: No, no, not stopping.  I think when I called the doctor, you know, he couldn't answer me.  I was like, How long you think I going to be feeling that bad?   
He didn't tell me.   
I said, 10, 15?   
He said, Drink.   
I said, I know I have to drink.  Give me, like, something.   
At the end I just figure out I will have my second breath, and I just hold.   
 Q.  Do you think the roof should have been closed to improve the quality of the tennis for the spectators?  
GAEL MONFILS: That's a good question.  No, is a good question because I'm not so much against the heat because I really like the heat.  But I don't know what was the temperature.  At one stage I think was really hot.   
When you fighting, I have no idea, no clue about the temperature.  Then the fittest win.  I'm fair with that.   
At one stage I'm, like, I'm not bad normally.  Then it drop.  What was the temperature?  It was looking very hot.   
At that time the official have to make a move.  Maybe wait a little bit, whatever, five minutes between the set.  Maybe they have to do small adjustment.  Maybe not the roof because, as I said, the fittest win, and I think is fair enough.   
 Q.  Did they suggest at any point you might get to the point where they close the roof or you take a break?  
GAEL MONFILS: No, no, never.  Just play on.  Okay.   
 Q.  It's going to be 42 tomorrow, warmer.  
GAEL MONFILS: Good luck for the guys.  Honestly, good luck for the guys.   
I train this winter in Miami.  Was pretty hot.  I thought I was very good.  I'm telling you, I was dying on the court for 40 minutes.   
Good luck to them.  I think sometime, yeah, we put our body at risk.  Just be smart.  If you have to give up, you know, it's not a shame.   
 Q.  You said it was tough and hard.  Can you compare this to any other match you played in the past?  
GAEL MONFILS: No, is the first time, to be honest.  I think maybe once here a long time ago I lost to Luis Horna.  It was real hot too.  I think was a long time ago.   
 Q.  One of the TV presenters said on Twitter that Novak asked for the match to be in the afternoon, not in the night session.  Did you know that or did you also have any say with the scheduling?  
GAEL MONFILS: No, I have no say and I didn't know that.   
 Q.  What do you do for recovery on a day like this?  
GAEL MONFILS: Never do that, but I went to the cold tub a little bit to cool down the body.  I kind of drink a lot and take some, you know, drinking recovery quite a lot I think for tomorrow as well, just to recharge my body.  Definitely when I get back to Europe, still I think a lot of fluids because today I think my body was in a tough condition.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT