ROLAND GARROS
September 25, 2020
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








THE MODERATOR:   Questions, please.
Q. I saw your social media post after Hamburg.  You spoke a little bit that things were complicated for you right now.  It has been difficult for you to get the sensations on court.  The change of scenery, being back in Paris, has that helped you feel a little bit better about yourself and your game?
GAEL MONFILS:   Well, just arrived.  I arrived actually yesterday.  Is my first 20 minutes out of my room, so...  I can't tell you much.
But, well, it's been actually I think pretty normal to be out of the tour for a couple months and don't feel the same.  Obviously I think it seems normal.  I thought I will have a better sensation and quicker.  Now back to Paris.
To be honest with you, I'm a bit sad.  It's an empty stadium.  The weather is not so nice so far.  It's not a big change so far.  Definitely will have to come from myself.
Q. I wanted to ask you about the coronavirus.  We've seen that cases are increasing around France.  They've lowered the number of spectators at the tournament.  What is your level of concern about the virus, the idea of having spectators at all there?
GAEL MONFILS:   Well, it's still the same.  Be very careful, try to protect yourself and protect, like, your team members with you.  Definitely I'm trying to be very careful.
About the spectators, it's been sad news that the numbers went to the opposite way that we want, it went down.  So pretty much since I'm back on the tour, it was not much spectators, zero in Rome and a little bit in Hamburg.  I guess we're going to have to do with what we have.
Q. It's your tournament at home.  If you had a preference to choose between 5,000 fans and an empty stadium, what you saw in US Open, Hamburg, and Rome, what would be your preference?
GAEL MONFILS:   Definitely 5,000 people.  Just have a little bit energy, a little bit interaction with some people.  Yeah, 100% 5,000 people.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT