QATAR EXXONMOBIL OPEN
January 3, 2018
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
G. MONFILS/J. Struff   
6-3, 1-6, 6-3   
THE MODERATOR: First question, please.   
 Q.  Couple of matches in on your comeback after not playing for quite a while.  How are you feeling?  
GAEL MONFILS: I feel happy to be back on the tour.  I feel happy to have those two matches under my belt.  Still, you know, I can play better.  I can play better.  I can, I think, play better.  I think it's just matter of time and confidence.   
I try to give my best every day during the practice, on the courts.  And then I really looking forward the match where I will feel much better.   
 Q.  Dominic said that in his mind you're a seeded player here even if you don't have a seeding.  Do you have that outlook yourself?  
GAEL MONFILS: I don't really pay attention about it, you know, just try to be me.  Thanks to him, you know.  But I think most of people know that I like challenges and it's big challenge for me, all matches.  I can play those guys first round, but for me it's cool.  I love that.  Hopefully, soon I get back my seeded ranking.   
 Q.  The courts we're seeing this year, the color is a little different than previous years.  Almost like Melbourne's blue.  Can you talk about the playing conditions compared to previous years and also compare them to Australia?  
GAEL MONFILS: For me it was four years ago, so it's a bit tough, I would say.  Honestly, I have no clue.  Because when I'm asking to the other guys, we don't have the same feeling about the court.  So some say it's slow.  Myself, I think it's fast.  So it's very interesting, you know.   
The only thing we know is the ball gets bigger so actually you can really hit it.  But for my feeling, I feel it's a fast court and for sure with the night and with the balls.   
Last year in Australia it was very fast, very fast.  I think it has been a couple of years now.  Australia has become one of the faster tournaments because used to be slower.   
 Q.  How much do you think the wind was a factor today?  This is second straight three-set match.  Do you feel that in Doha there's a bit more wind and how did you cope with that?  
GAEL MONFILS: As I say, it's a matter I believe.  I'm working hard, try to get back to the top of the game again.   
You know, here, I really enjoy it to be play here.  It's good condition, but I should say it's changed a lot since the last time.  I was not expecting that.  But always, you know, welcome here and feeling good.  So that for sure helps.   
And then, yeah, I think I had a long time off, a long time without seeing competition.  So I have a lot of need to be on the court to enjoy, actually.  I think I missed the competition, all the spirit.  So I'm more than happy to be back.  And wins just help to have more matches and build a better confidence.   
 Q.  The on-court condition, do you feel that the court is very windy today when you played?  
GAEL MONFILS: Today was a bit more windy today.  I mean, it's not a crazy wind, but it is a bit windy, yeah.  I think we saw worse than that, but it was a bit windy, yeah.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT