THE CHAMPIONSHIPS WIMBLEDON
July 6, 2017
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MONFILS/K. Edmund
7-6, 6-4, 6-4
THE MODERATOR: Questions, please.
Q. You said before the match that you hadn't played well on grass for 10 years.  You were probably being sarcastic.  Do you feel you have now?
GAEL MONFILS: Not really.  Still the same.  I was not very sarcastic.  I was just being honest with myself.  I think I'm a good tennis player, and I've never done so good on grass, you know.  Never actually passed the third round at Wimbledon.  Never had great result on grass.
So I guess I just playing a bit better.  But maybe I have a better understanding about myself, how to move a little bit.
But for me, I think still is not a court where I can be able to put my best.
Q. You never allowed the crowd to influence the match.  Obviously they were going to be supporting Edmund.  You were on top of him right from the start.
GAEL MONFILS: I think I play good, solid.  I play much better, but I play very solid.  I think I was very fast with my service game, putting lot of pressure, hitting pretty heavy the ball.
I think the first set was a very important moment in the game.  Then I was a little bit cruising.  I think the heat come a little bit for him, so he had a little drop.  I took this advantage.
Then the third, he was back on the serve, was returning a bit better.  I think tried to go little bit more heavy with his shot.  But I think I handle it good.
Q. Did you find him difficult to play or tricky to play?
GAEL MONFILS: Yeah, I think it's tough.  I mean, as I say always on grass, is different mentality, it's different movement.  You see when he broke me, because straightaway I was unbalanced, I was less focused on my movement, more focused how to reach the ball.  As soon as I drop the focus on my movement, I slip 100%.
I think it's not very enjoyable for me to move on grass and play because I'm thinking too much.
Q. Even on grass, you still managed to entertain the crowd, play some entertaining shots.  Is that always part of your philosophy?
GAEL MONFILS: I think it's part of my game.  I didn't need so much today.  I think I missed a smash.
Is always, you know, I think people like it because they say, Oh, Gael Monfils, I'm an entertainer.  We play 120 points, I done two point, it was, Whoa.  It was only two points on a hundred points.
I just manage to be myself, pull up with a big game and win today.
Q. In the past when you've made it to the second week of Wimbledon, middle Sunday you have off, what do you usually do?
GAEL MONFILS: I never done it, so...
Q. What would you do if you make it?
GAEL MONFILS: I tell you if I make it (laughter).
Q. Do you not see yourself as making it to the second week?
GAEL MONFILS: One more match.  I will see.  I have to think about it.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT