AEGON INTERNATIONAL
July 1, 2017
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
N. DJOKOVIC/G. Monfils   
6-3, 6-4   
 Q.  How was that?  Djokovic is obviously a good player.  You pushed him.  Did you feel happy with the way you played?  
GAËL MONFILS: Yeah, I think I tried my best today.  I think he played very good, returned very good.  Obviously in the first set he served very good.  That was very tough to handle his first serve.  I had some opportunities, and he had a bit of luck and managed it very good.  I think I played a tough match.   
 Q.  What sort of shape do you think he was in?  You have played him, seen him before.  Is that the Djokovic you've played before?  Is he getting back to...  
GAËL MONFILS: I think he was quite good.  Very solid, you know.  All the time people are talking about if he's good or not.   
Well, I see a guy who is moving very good, returning good.  I think I played very good, and he still managed to break me three times and play a clean match.   
 Q.  He will be a contender at Wimbledon?  
GAËL MONFILS: Definitely, definitely.   
 Q.  How do you fancy your chances now?  You have had a good run of games.  Getting used to the grass?  
GAËL MONFILS: It's always the same.  Is not because I made the final that I be a good player on grass.  I think I just have a good week here.  Honestly, grass is not my court, is not my fav.  I try my best, but I have no doubt the first one will be super tough for me in Wimbledon.   
 Q.  The tennis club are bringing out a charity book to kind of start with the completion of all the development work here.  I know you played the club coach, were having a hit with him this morning.  What other recollections do you think you'll take away from here when you go up to Wimbledon and go home eventually?  
GAËL MONFILS: Well, I think it's a very nice city.  We walk a little bit actually last night, and my fitness coach run a little bit, made a cool video, and we can see a little bit the ocean.   
I think it's a nice little city.  The club is very nice, too.  You know, I think I will keep very nice memories.   
 Q.  We were asking a few players today, Wimbledon security is going to be higher than ever obviously because of the atrocities we have had here.  Does that ever enter into your mind going into a big tournament?  
GAËL MONFILS: Well, I think for us in France it's the same.  We had quite a lot.  One in Nice, you know.  I was just couple days before there, so, you know, it's always there.  I have a lot of friends that perform, the artists, and all the time I know we talk about that, because for sure we have this in mind.   
You know, I think is where it can happen.  I think we need to live with that.  But I think the main thing is to not show any fear.   
 Q.  So you always feel comfortable with the security because it's always good, I imagine?  
GAËL MONFILS: I try to not even think about it.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT