ROLAND GARROS
June 5, 2017
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








S. WAWRINKA/G. Monfils
7-5, 7-6, 6-2
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. How do you feel?  12, 13 break balls?  Is that the key?  Is that the turning point?  What was the key of this match?
GAËL MONFILS: I think he was able to take all the opportunities he had, especially at key moments in the match.  He had a lot of break balls, and he was able to pick up these points.
At the beginning, I felt quite well.  I have to say I had many opportunities.  But whenever he had opportunities, he was very good.  I think he was better than I was in the end.
Q. Would you say you're frustrated, frustrated about this match, or frustrated about the past weeks?  How do you feel right now?
GAËL MONFILS: Right now I feel disappointed, because I just lost my match.  You know, I'm a competitor.  And competitors don't like to lose.
Stan was better than I was today.  Again, he was able to seize all opportunities.  He was able to do more things and pick up, you know, the sets.
Q. What else could you have done?  I mean, okay, playing against a top 50 player is one thing.  Playing a guy like Stan is a different story, right?
GAËL MONFILS: Yeah, but at the same time, the first two sets, I was okay.  I think I was dominating.  I think it was pretty close.
So I don't really look at whether it's a top-20 player or whether it's Stan.  I think maybe what was missing today is realism.  I don't think I was realistic enough.
Q. Do you think you were ready to play four or five hours?
GAËL MONFILS: I think I was okay.  I had this momentum at the beginning of the third set, and it was tough at that point.  But I think he had a difficult time, too.  I was just unable come back at one point into the match, and that somewhat left me behind.
I think we fought hard in the first two sets, and then I think we had a little less pressure after it.  I think I felt okay.
Q. So you said you were not realistic enough.  Why is that?
GAËL MONFILS: If only I knew (smiling).  I guess if I had known or if I did know, I would have played differently.
Q. Maybe you could have caught some of the balls earlier?  You don't want to go into long rallies against Stan.  Do you think that in the future you may maybe adjust?
GAËL MONFILS: I did like these long rallies.  He had to catch the ball earlier to win the points.  What was more difficult today is also playing against the wind.  When we played against the wind, we were really playing against the wind.
But I like these long rallies against Stan.
Q. I'm not sure I understand what you just said about the wind.  What was bothering you?
GAËL MONFILS: Well, when we were playing against, we were definitely playing against the wind, and it changes the trajectory of the ball.
If you get very defensive, it becomes more difficult and at the same time easier for the opponent.  So tactically speaking, you had to really think very carefully each time you were playing against the wind.
Q. Stan said he found this match very difficult from a nervous standpoint.  Would you agree with that?  If yes, why?
GAËL MONFILS: I don't know.  I just found it a difficult match, period.  As I said, I had many opportunities.  I wasn't really able to, you know, win these points.  In a match, there comes a point where you feel you're in control or you're not.  When you're not, it becomes more difficult.
Q. Going forward, are you ready now for your grass season?  Are you going to play other tournaments?
GAËL MONFILS: I don't know at this point.  I'm not really thinking about it.
Q. You seem quite disappointed.  Do you think you could have done better in this match?
GAËL MONFILS: Well, as I said before, I don't like to lose.  Especially not at Roland Garros.  I had many opportunities, and it's unfortunate.  I wasn't able to seize these opportunities.
So of course, yeah, I am disappointed.
Q. You lost today's match, but are you reassured physically after playing at the French Open this week?
GAËL MONFILS: Right now I really think about the fact that I lost the match.  Nothing else.
Q. The last biggest match was against Nadal beginning of the year.  You haven't really played any big matches since, right?
GAËL MONFILS: I don't know.  Maybe.  You know, when you lose, you can find all kinds of excuses.  The fact is I wasn't able to win today.
Q. You have played Roger here.  You have lost Murray, as well.  You have lost Stan today.  And again, you lost.  It's sometimes very close.  What is it that's missing?
GAËL MONFILS: Hopefully I can tell you that next year.
Q. At one point in the match, Stan got physical care, physical attention.  You talked to each other.  What did you tell to each other?  What did you say?
GAËL MONFILS: The rule is a bit strange.  You know, when you ask for the physio, it's medical attention when you're about to serve.  And I just wanted to clarify that at that point.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT