ROLAND GARROS
June 1, 2017
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MONFILS/T. Monteiro
6-1, 6-4, 6-1
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. What a match.  You seemed to be doing great.  You can't really say that there was anything missing.
GAËL MONFILS: Well, you know, we're always looking for something.  Today I played a good match.  I guess a very good match.  I had some very good hits.  It feels great.  I was able to serve well.  I was able to really apply what I had agreed upon with Michael.
You know, we're always looking to improve, even at 4-0, I still did not feel completely safe in my mind.  I was still looking, looking for something.
But yes, I do play better, but at the same time, I think there is still room for improvement.  Today I made a few mistakes, but I didn't really score that many good points with my forehand.  That's something I need to improve.
So in short I still am looking further to improve my game play.  Don't get me wrong.  I am very happy, and I was able to play a solid match.
Q. We can tell you're feeling well on the court.  You're playing in a very lively way.  The public is supporting you.  Would you say that the only danger is for you to be tempted to watch NBA finals on television at 3:00 in the morning?
GAËL MONFILS: No, the main danger is that something was wrong with my body.  But, you know, right now things are going well.  I just won two matches.
Q. I guess what you're looking for is for a trigger, winning a match which would be like a trigger, right?
GAËL MONFILS: I wouldn't say a trigger.  I am just looking for better sensations day after day.
The next match will be very important.  What I like, especially when I play in Grand Slam tournaments, is that momentum where match after match you not only play consistently but you play better and better.
So if, for the next match, I can be physically fit and well, I think that will make me feel better in my mind.  Again, it's been, for a long time I was not able to play matches successfully without little, physical little problems, so I'm very happy that I won this one.
But again, it's not a trigger match.
Q. A lot of people on the side to support you in your box.  How do you manage these people during the match?  How important are they for you during the match?
GAËL MONFILS: I guess for a year and a year and a half, Marina Gauthier has been managing everybody.  It's a big responsibility.  It's not easy (smiling).
What's difficult is that in my box there are a lot of people, a lot of friends, a lot of relatives.  More relatives than friends.
And I think this is what's difficult for her to manage.  You know, my family is very important.  I have said this time and again here at Roland Garros.  They first give me the energy I need, then the public.  But they first.  I'm very happy that I'm able to share this very important moment with them.
Q. You have been struggling recently with your serve.  Is that getting better?
GAËL MONFILS: Hard to say.  I wouldn't say that I got that many first serves today.  But I think I did quite well on my second serves.  I had some slices, good slices, slice kicks, and that's important.  And that's good.
But, you know, on clay it's a little different.  You get better kicks.
You know, you don't necessarily need to really think about a more aggressive second ball, especially a player like Thiago today.  He's way back on the court.  So I think it allowed me to breathe a little.
But, yes, obviously when I hit the first serve, I really got the feeling that it was powerful, that I really got, you know, out of the racquet with a lot of power.
But again, but again, I need more.  I need more to really be convinced that I have a solid momentum.
Q. So what if your adversary is Richard Gasquet in the third round?  How will that be, or how would that be?
GAËL MONFILS: It will be tough.  Playing Richard is never easy.
The last time we played, he won.  Again, as I have said before, I'm looking for good sensations.  I want to play good matches.  And if I want to beat Richard, I'll have to play a solid match.
He's gonna come in.  He's gonna play.  He's gonna play hard.  Plus he's in Paris, we're in Paris, so it will be a fierce battle.
If I can wage a similar battle as I did today, it will help me.  Yeah, that's where we stand.  Again, it's about, you know, getting physically ready, and I hope that there will be no physical problems by then.
Q. I have been watching you at the French Open since I was very young.  You have had mixed results.  You have had so-so performance, and then you did a great match against Ferrer in 2008 here in Paris.  Do you think it's because of your relatives, your friends, who are here?  Does that stimulate you to make a difference?
GAËL MONFILS: Well, it does stimulate me.  As I said, having my relatives, having my friends is wonderful.  And then Paris is just very special.  Whether it's right here at Roland Garros or in Bercy, the public is always very supportive.  They give you these great vibes that I need as a player.
So again, I can't really have a long-term vision at this point, but I know that if something magic happens, can happen, it's probably here.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT