ROLAND GARROS
May 30, 2017
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT








G. MONFILS/D. Brown
6-4, 7-5, 6-0
THE MODERATOR: Questions in English.
Q. How did you feel out there today?  What are your expectations coming into this tournament where you have had some good success?
GAËL MONFILS: I felt quite okay, you know, today.  Wasn't easy for me to get back on shape, because I really struggling a lot with my body, you know, last few weeks.  It was very tough for me to be almost 100%.  So it felt not bad today on the court.
I thought I was very positive, you know, because I had Dustin actually dropped me quite a lot of time, and straightaway, you know, I had to see how I react.  It was quite okay.  Honestly, I'm waiting tonight just to see how my body gonna react.
Then from there I will know if I'm almost 100%.  You know, as I said always I come to Paris, you know, with one dream, one goal, you know, to have this trophy at the end.
Q. Have you got a minimum goal, target in terms of results in this tournament?
GAËL MONFILS: Not really, you know.  I go day by day, match after match.  And as I just say, you know, the goal, the dream, is to win it.
Q. When you're healthy, the way that you move and jump and cover the court, it seems to squeeze the size of the court down.  I'm wondering if you think there might ever come a time when we need to change the dimensions of the court, make the lines bigger or the net higher or anything like this?
GAËL MONFILS: Yeah, not really.  I think now is quite good, you know.  I think all good.  By changing rules, you know, I'm not a big fan.
Q. (Indiscernible)?
GAËL MONFILS: Maybe.
THE MODERATOR: Questions in French.
Q. We saw that you were running.  You were able to run really fast up to the net.  That was good.
GAËL MONFILS: Yes.  And then there were not very long rallies.  As a matter of fact, it's not really what you want at the beginning of a tournament, especially not at Roland Garros.
But again, as I said before, I was very explosive, which was a good thing, I believe.  And as I said before, we'll see in a few hours how my body responds.
Q. Was today's match reassuring?  When you say in a few hours, you mean after your body cools down?
GAËL MONFILS: I have just finished.  It's only an hour after.  When you remove the tape, the body cools down.  We are going to see then how it feels, if the pain comes back or not.  I actually stopped taking anti-inflammatories, so that will show me where my body, how my body is doing, really.  So I guess I will have a better answer anywhere between this evening and tomorrow.
Q. Based on what you have done so far this season, how far do you think you can go?
GAËL MONFILS: This is the first time I'm coming with no victories whatsoever on clay.  And the two final matches I played, you know, I wouldn't even call them matches.  So I'm coming here, I guess, in a very different position, quite unusual position.
Q. And what does that mean?  Does that mean you prepared differently?  You are preparing differently?  Is it just a different job altogether?
GAËL MONFILS: I guess, you know, when you're injured, all you can do is wait.  Maybe I went back to play a little too quickly.  Don't get me wrong, it took forever in my mind.  I went to Indian Wells, and then before The Masters Series, I decided to go to Munich.  It was cold.  Probably not a good choice.  In Madrid, I hurt myself, again, which obviously showed it was too early.  So I had to wait again.  Wait and wait.
Today I think I feel better.  But again, the French Open is different, so you have to take care of yourself differently, you obviously have to prepare more rapidly.  And it put a lot of pressure on the body.
You know, when you're injured, there is no secret.  You have to wait.  If you take medication to do things faster, well, you know, you can still end up paying the consequences.
Q. How is your morale?  I know your dream is to win the French Open.  Sometimes I guess things can get very frustrating.
GAËL MONFILS: Yes, last year, you know, was very frustrating.  Then at the beginning of this season was not very good.  No matches.  So I'm here with no references.
The body is okay, so that alone is frustrating.  But you know what?  I try to think beyond.
Q. The two past weeks, what was your life like?  Were you able to train, or has it been difficult?
GAËL MONFILS: I was able to train last week, and I think I was able to really focus more, but I was always trying to control things.  I didn't really have the feeling that I could go beyond a certain workload.  And before that, I was, you know, enjoying some time off, which is also very important for my morale.






END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT