BARCLAYS ATP WORLD TOUR FINALS
November 16, 2016
Gael Monfils
START_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
THE MODERATOR: Unfortunately, Gael Monfils has to pull out of the ATP World Tour Finals.  He's going to explain why.   
GAEL MONFILS: Definitely I can't play for tomorrow because I still feel worse and worse, my ribs, that I had lately.  Yeah, I feel that even yesterday was tough in the game.  I feel unfortunately today I couldn't be feeling great and couldn't practice, so I just decide that I couldn't play tomorrow.   
THE MODERATOR: Questions.   
 Q.  How did you sustain the injury?  How did it happen?  
GAEL MONFILS: In Stockholm tournament, I hurt myself in Stockholm tournament.  From then, you know, I just start to practice last Monday.   
You know, I knew it's going to be six weeks, they told me, of rest.  I try to make it.  I couldn't really make it.   
 Q.  Do you think if you had won one of your first two matches, your decision might have been different?  
GAEL MONFILS: I guess with time it will be the same decision at the end.  I think it wasn't a matter about matches.   
 Q.  Your season is done.  Can you reflect a little bit on it.  
GAEL MONFILS: I'm very happy first to be here in the top eight.  I think it's the greatest season I ever done.  I can say also I missed quite a lot.  Big occasion to play.   
It give me more hope for next year.  Definitely I had a lot of big change for me.  I think for the new season I will have new changes and hopefully I can be even stronger next year.   
 Q.  How disappointing is it given this is the first time you've managed to reach this event?  
GAEL MONFILS: You know, you work so hard for this moment, then not be able play your best, is a huge deception for me.  To not be able to finish it, I attempted to play in two matches, I have a couple of stuff I wanted to show.  I'm disappointed.   
But, as I say, it will give me more strength for next year.   
 Q.  Who do you tip to win the title and why?  
GAEL MONFILS: I guess it's a tough question because is very open.  We saw Andy's great game and Kei.  Novak is playing good, too.  Yesterday was a great game against Milos.   
I guess those guys, it's going to be the best one that is going to pull out the Sunday.  But it's a tricky question because I see those four guys, the top four, they are very strong.   
  
  
  
  
  

END_OF_INTERVIEW_TEXT